Grows Out of the GraveIn the beginning of the fourteenth century a poor widow lived justoutside the Doven Gate (in Bremen) in the vicinity of Jodenberg. Sheoccupied a cottage that had been given to her by the wealthy FrauSchwanke, the wife of Conrad von Verden. For many long years she hadserved Frau Schwanke's parents as a faithful and industrious maid, and forthis reason Frau Schwanke provided her with various means of support, evenin her old age.To be sure, the old widow had a daughter who was married to a wealthytanner in the city, but the daughter had a hard and proud personality, andwhen the council at that time gave tanners the right to have their ownguild in the future, the devil of arrogance so overcame thetanner master's wife that she became ashamed of her mother, and in the endshe even forbade her to enter her house.The old woman was slow and frail, and she could no longer manage toprovide for herself, even by spinning. She would have perished had it notbeen for the help of others. But this help came to a terrible end whenConrad von Verden, who together with his wealthy cousins had committed anumber of acts of violence, was driven from the city along with all of hisrelatives. The old woman could no longer take her pot to Frau Schwanke toget leftovers from their noon meal, as she had been accustomed to do for ayear and a day.Bitter necessity now drove her to turn to her daughter for charity. Itwas a difficult step for her. With a shaking hand she reached for thestaff which for a long time now she had been forced to rely on to supporther unsteady gait.Underway she stopped several times. She feared an angry confrontationwith her daughter, and reflected if it would not be better to take herproblems to someone other than her own child. Suddenly she found herselfstanding in front of her son in law's house. She hesitated another moment,then took courage and stepped inside. "After all, she is my daughter, myonly child," she murmured quietly to herself. "God and Saint Willhaduswill soften her harshness."She entered the parlor, where the entire family had gathered to eattheir noon meal. At first she was very embarrassed, standing there in herpoor clothing surrounded by expensive household furnishings and utensils,and she struggled unsuccessfully for words with which to express her plea.Having collected herself somewhat, she most movingly described in simpleand unassuming language the hopelessness of her plight.Tears came to her son in law's eyes, but he was a weak man who wascompletely dominated by his wife, and for nothing in the world would hehave made an independent decision, directed only by his heart. He wouldhave taken the helpless old woman into his house with pleasure, if it haddepended upon him alone. But as it was, he cast a questioning glancetoward his wife to assure himself of her approval. Fear overcame him whenhe saw her face. It was nothing new for him that she should become angry,even in unimportant matters, but never before had he seen such fury, suchan ugly distortion of her features. It was as though upon the sight of hermother she had become possessed of an evil spirit.The redness of her raging anger gave way to a corpse like paleness.With sparking animal like eyes she appeared to want to penetrate the beingto whom she owed her life and existence and who had protected her withmaternal nurture in her youth and had cared for her in sickness.Terrified, the old woman looked around for a chair, for her strengththreatened to leave her. For a moment the man's human feelings overcamehis fear of his wife, and he rushed forward to catch the half unconsciouswoman. Until now the tanner master's wife had sat there quietly withoutsaying a word, or without even moving. But now her anger suddenly explodedlike a crashing thunder storm that had been threatening in the skies forsome time. With superhuman strength she pushed her husband aside and likea wild animal threw herself furiously at her own mother, in order topunish her for having dared to come here, although she had been expresslyforbidden to do so. Striking at her with her fists, she finally drove herout of the parlor door.The old woman lay on the hallway floor with her face to the ground. Shedid not move, and the daughter's demands that she stand up were invain.The daughter's unnatural anger suddenly dissipated at this pitifulsight. It was as though a curtain had been drawn from her eyes and thatshe could finally see whom she had directed her blind fury against."Mother!" she cried, horrified at what she had done. "Forgive me! Come toyour sinful and repentant daughter. Before God and all the saints, if themost tender attention and the most loving care can erase this terrible sinfrom your memory, then you shall forget it."Gripped by the deepest sympathy, she bent over the unfortunate woman inorder to lift her up. She wanted never again to be separated from her,never again to cause her concern. But this change of disposition came toolate, and with horror she saw that she was wasting her loving caresses ona corpse.The tanner master's wife was spared by an earthly judge, for it wasdetermined that the old woman did not die only as a result of the attack,but even more from fear and terror. But there is also a judge who dwellsabove the clouds who does not make his determinations according to earthlyexpectations and sophistry.The tanner master's wife died suddenly thereafter, and a few days afterher burial, the gravedigger noticed with horror that the buried woman'shands   with which she had attacked her mother   were extending from thegrave. And this miracle can be seen to this day, eternalized in stone inthe ambulatory of the cathedral.