Off in a valley, among very stony mountains, lived an old farmer named PakWe and his wife. His land was poor and he had to toil from sunrise tosunset and often in the night, when the moon was shining, to get food. Nochild had ever come to his home and he was in too great straits of povertyto adopt a son. So he took his amusement in fishing in the pond higher upon the hills that fed the stream which watered his millet and ricefields. Being very skilful, he often caught a good string of fish andthese he sold in the village nearby to get for himself and his wife thefew comforts they needed. Thus the old couple kept themselves happy,despite their cheerless life, though they often wondered what would becomeof them when they got too old to work.But one summer Pak noticed that there were fewer fish in the pond, andthat every day they seemed to be less in number. Where he used to catch astringful in an hour, he could hardly get half that many during a wholeday.What was the matter? Was he getting less skilful? Was the bait poor? Notat all! His worms were as fat, his hooks and lines in as good order, andhis eyesight was as keen as ever.When Pak noticed also that the water was getting shallower, he wasstartled. Could it be that the pond was drying up? Things grew worse dayby day until at last there were no fish.Where once sparkled the wavelets of a pond was now an arid waste of earthand stones, over which trickled hardly more than a narrow rill, which hecould jump over. No fish and no pond meant no water for his rice fields.In horror at the idea of starving, or having to move away from his oldhome and become a pauper, Pak looked down from what had been the banks ofthe pond to find the cause of all this trouble. There in the mud among thepebbles he saw a bullfrog, nearly as big as an elephant, blinking at himwith its huge round eyes.In a rage the farmer Pak burst out, charging the frog with cruelty ineating up all the fish and drinking up all the water, threateningstarvation to man and wife. Then Pak proceeded to curse the whole line ofthe frog's ancestors and relatives, especially in the female line, foreight generations back, as Koreans usually do.But instead of being sorry, or showing any anger at such a scolding, thebullfrog only blinked and bowed, saying, "Don't worry, Farmer Pak. You'llbe glad of it, by and by. Besides, I want to go home with you and live inyour house.""What! Occupy my home, you clammy reptile! No you won't," said Pak."Oh! but I have news to tell you and you won't be sorry, for you see whatI can do. Better take me in."Old Pak thought it over. How should he face his wife with such a guest?But then, the frog had news to tell and that might please the old lady,who was fond of gossip. Since her husband was not very talkative, shemight be willing to harbor so strange a guest. So they started down thevalley. Pak shuffled along as fast as his old shins could move, but thebullfrog covered the distance in a few leaps, for his hind legs were threefeet long.Arrived at his door, Mrs. Pak was horrified at the prospect of boardingsuch a guest. But when the husband told her that Froggie knew all abouteverybody and could chat interestingly by the hour, she changed her mannerand bade him welcome. Indeed, she so warmed in friendliness that she gavehim one of her best rooms. All the leaves, grass, and brushwood that hadbeen gathered in the woodshed to supply the kitchen fire and house flues,was carried into the room. There it was doused with tubs of water to makea nice soft place such as bullfrogs like. After this he was fed all theworms he wanted.Then after his dinner and a nap, Mrs. Pak and Mr. Pak donned their bestclothes and went in to make a formal call on their guest. Mr. Pak put onhis horsehair hat and long white coat, as white as snow, which had beenstarched and beaten by his loving wife, until it glistened all over likehoar frost.Mr. Bullfrog was so affable and charming in conversation, besides tellingso many good stories and serving up so many dainty bits of gossip, thatMrs. Pak was delighted beyond expression. Indeed, she felt almost likeadopting Froggie as her son.The night passed quietly away, but when the first rays of light appeared,Froggie was out on the porch singing a most melodious tune to the risingsun. When Mr. and Mrs. Pak rose up to greet their guest and to hear hissong, they were amazed to find that the music was bringing them blessings.Everything they had wished for, during their whole lives, seemed now athand, with more undreamed of coming in troops. In the yard stood oxen,donkeys, and horses loaded with every kind of box, bale, and bundle,waiting to be unloaded, and more were coming. stout men porters appearedand began to unpack, while troops of lovely girls in shining white tookfrom the men's hands beautiful things made of jade, gold, and silver.There were fine clothes and hats for Mr. Pak, jade tipped hairpins,tortoise shell and ivory combs, silk gowns, embroidered and jeweledgirdles, and every sort of frocks and woman's garments for Mrs. Pak,besides inlaid cabinets, clothes racks, and wardrobes. Above all, was apolished metal mirror that looked like the full autumn moon, over whichMrs. Pak was now tempted to spend every minute of her time.Four or five of the prettiest maidens they had ever seen in all theirlives danced, sang and played sweetest music. The unpacking of boxes,bales, and bundles continued. Tables of jade and finest sandalwood werespread with the richest foods and wines. Soon, under the skilful hands ofcarpenters and decorators, instead of oiled paper on the floors, coveringold bricks and broken flat stones set over the flues, and smoky raftersand mud walls poorly papered, there rose a new house. It had elegant widehalls and large rooms with partitions made of choicest joiner work. It wasfurnished with growing flowers, game boards for chess, and had everythingin it like a palace.As for the riches of the larder and the good things to eat daily laid onthe table, no pen but a Korean's can tell of them all. In the newstorehouse were piles of dried fish, edible seaweed, bags of rice, bins ofmillet, tubs of kim chee made of various sorts of the pepper hash, andKorean hot pickle in which the natives delight, to say nothing of peaches,pears, persimmons, chestnuts, honey, barley, sugar, candy, cake, andpastry, all arranged in high piles and gay colors.The old couple seemed able to eat and enjoy twice as big dinners asformerly, for all the while the adopted bullfrog was very entertaining.Mr. and Mrs. Pak laughed continually, declaring they had never heard suchgood stories as he told. The good wife was, however, quite equal to herguest in retailing gossip. One of her favorite subjects, of which shenever tired, was the beauty and charm of Miss Peach. She was theaccomplished daughter of the big Yang ban, or nobleman, Mr. Poom, wholived in a great house, with a host of servants and retainers in the nextvillage, and Mrs. Pak insisted there was no young woman in the world likeher. It was noticed that Mr. Bullfrog was particularly interested whenMiss Peach Poom was the subject of the old lady's praises.After a week of such luxury, during which Mr. and Mrs. Pak seemed to dwellin the Nirvana, or Paradise, which the good priests often talked about,Mr. Pak's full cup of joy was dashed to earth when the bullfrog informedhim that he intended to marry, and that Mr. Pak must get him a wife. Stillworse than that, Pak was informed by the frog that he would have no onebut Miss Peach, the daughter of Poom, so renowned for her beauty andgraces.At this, old Pak nearly went wild. He begged to be excused from the task,but the bullfrog was inexorable. So, after imprecating his wife's tongue,for her ever putting it into the frog's head to marry Miss Peach, hedonned his fine clothes and set out to see Mr. Poom. He expected to bebeaten to death for his brazen effrontery in asking a noble lady to marrya frog.Now this Mr. Poom had long been the magistrate of a district, who hadsqueezed much money wrongly from the poor people over whom he ruled, andhaving won great wealth, had retired and come back to his native place tolive. Yet to keep up his old habits, he still kept a cross bench on whichcommon people who offended him were thrown and beaten with paddles, untiloften they went away bleeding cripples. This man had two daughtersmarried, but the third, the youngest and most beautiful, Miss Peach, noweighteen years old, was the only one Mr. Bullfrog would have for hisbride.Arriving at the Pooms' grand mansion, Mr. Pak told of the suitor's wealth,power and fame, high position and promise, and how he had made the oldcouple happy.Old Poom had pricked up his ears from the first mention of riches andpower, and became highly interested as Pak went on sounding the praises ofhis prospective son in law."And what is his name?" asked Mr. Poom.Here Pak was in a quandary. He knew that the frog family was the oldestand most numerous in the world and was famous for fine voices. He fellinto a brown study for a few minutes. Then, looking up, he declared thathe had so long thought of the suitor's graces and accomplishments, that hehad forgotten his name and could not then recall it.So Mr. Poom, in order to help Pak out, ran over the list of famousfamilies in Korea, reciting the names of the Kims, Sims, Mins, the Hos,Chos, Kos, Quongs, and Hongs, etc., etc., for Mr. Poom was an authority onthe Korean peerage."It is none of these," said Pak. "I deeply regret that I cannot recall thename.""Strange," said Mr. Poom. "I have named all the families of any standingin the kingdom. What is his office or rank and where do his relationslive?"Pak was pressed so hard by Mr. Poom's searching questions that at last hehad to confess that the suitor for the beautiful maiden was not a man buta frog."What! Do you want me to marry my daughter to a pond croaker? You shallsuffer for thus insulting me in my own house. Slaves, bring the crossbench and give this wretch twenty blows."Forthwith, while four men brought out the whipping bench, three othersseized poor Pak, stripped off his coat, and bound him with feet and armsstretched out to the bench. Then a tall, stalwart fellow raised the hugepaddle of wood to let fall with all his might on the bare flesh of the oldman. But all this while the sky was darkening, and, before the first blowwas given, the lightning flashed, the thunder rolled, and floods of rainfell that threatened to overwhelm house, garden, and all in a deluge. Thehail, which began to pelt the cattle, was first the size of an egg andthen of stones, like cannon balls."Hold," cried the frightened Mr. Poom. "I'll wait and ask further."Thereupon the lightning and thunder ceased, the sun burst out in splendor.Mightily impress by this, Mr. Poom at last agreed to let his daughterbecome the bride of the frog, not telling her who her husband was to be.Within an hour, while she was getting ready, a string of fine horses anddonkeys with palanquins loaded with presents for the bride and her familyappeared. Besides boxes of silk dresses and perfumes, headgear andarticles for a lady's boudoir, there were troops of maidens to wait on thebride. Arraying Miss Peach in the loveliest of robes, they also dressedher hair, until, what with satin puffs and frame, jade tipped silverhairpins, rosettes, and flowers, her headgear stood over a foot high aboveher forehead, on which was the bride's red round spot.Then, when the happy maiden had sufficiently admired herself in the metalmirror and heard the praises of her attendant virgins, she entered thebridal palanquin   a gorgeous mass of splendor. According to custom, hereyes were sealed shut and covered with wax, for a Korean bride seesnothing of her husband until the end of the feast, when she meets him inthe bridal chamber.So to his house she was carried in great pomp and with gay attendance ofbrilliantly arrayed maidens. The marriage ceremony and the grand supperwere happy affairs for all the guests, even though the bride, according toKorean etiquette, was as if blind, quietly and patiently waiting sightlessthroughout the whole joyful occasion. The actual ceremony was witnessedonly by the foster parents and the bridegroom.When in the bridal chamber, the bride having unsealed her eyes, and hervision being clear, she looked up at the one she had married and found nota man, but a frog, she was furiously angry. She burst out into a protestagainst having such a bridegroom. Gently and in tenderest tones thebridegroom attempted first to comfort her. Then, handing her a pair ofscissors, he begged her to rip open the skin along his back from shoulderto thigh, for it was very tight and he was suffering pain from it. In herbitter disappointment at being married to a frog, she seized the scissorsand almost viciously began to cut from nape to waist. Her surprise wasgreat to find what seemed to be silk underneath the speckled skin.When she had slit down two yards or so, her husband the frog stood uponhis hind legs. He twisted himself about as if in a convulsion, pulled hiswhole speckled hide hard with his front paws, and then jumping out of hisskin, stood before his bride a prince. Fair, tall, of superb figure, andgorgeously arrayed, he was the ideal of her dreams. A jeweled baldricbound his waist, embroidery of golden dragons on his shoulders and breasttold of his rank, while on his head was the cap of royalty with asparkling diamond in the centre. Yet no clothes, handsome as they were,could compare in beauty with his glorious manhood. Never had she seen sofair a mortal.Happy was the bride whose feelings were thus changed in a moment fromrepulsion and horror to warmest affection and strongest veneration. Thenext morning when, to the amazement of his foster father and mother, Mr.and Mrs. Pak, the prince presented himself and his bride at breakfast, hetold the story of his life. As son of the King of the Stars he hadcommitted some offense, in punishment for which his father condemned himto live upon the earth in the form of a frog. Furthermore he had laid uponhis son the duty of performing three tasks. These must be done before heshould be allowed to come back and live in Star Land. These were, to drinkup all the water in the lake, to eat all the fish, and to win a humanbride, the handsomest woman in the world.All the precious things which he had presented to Pak and his wife to maketheir old days comfortable, and the gifts sent to the bride's house beforeher wedding day, had come by power from the skies. Now, leaving his fosterparents on earth to enjoy their gifts, he must return home to his father,taking his bride with him. Scarcely had he spoken these words than achariot and horses, silver bright, appeared at the door of the house.Bowing low to his foster parents, and stepping in with his bride, the pairdisappeared beyond the clouds. From this time forth a new double star wasseen in the sky.Source: William Elliot Griffis, TheUnmannerly Tiger, and Other Korean Tales (New York: Thomas Y.Crowell Company, 1911), pp.112 125 .Return to the table of contents .