In the middle of a great forest there lived a long time ago acharcoal burner and his wife. They were both young and handsome andstrong, and when they got married, they thought work would never failthem. But bad times came, and they grew poorer and poorer, and thenights in which they went hungry to bed became more and more frequent.Now one evening the king of that country was hunting near thecharcoal burner's hut. As he passed the door, he heard a sound ofsobbing, and being a good natured man he stopped to listen, thinkingthat perhaps he might be able to give some help.'Were there ever two people so unhappy!' said a woman's voice. 'Here weare, ready to work like slaves the whole day long, and no work can weget. And it is all because of the curiosity of old mother Eve! If shehad only been like me, who never want to know anything, we should allhave been as happy as kings to day, with plenty to eat, and warmclothes to wear. Why ' but at this point a loud knock interrupted herlamentations.'Who is there?' asked she.'I!' replied somebody.'And who is "I"?''The king. Let me in.'Full of surprise the woman jumped up and pulled the bar away from thedoor. As the king entered, he noticed that there was no furniture inthe room at all, not even a chair, so he pretended to be in too greata hurry to see anything around him, and only said 'You must not let medisturb you. I have no time to stay, but you seemed to be in trouble.Tell me. are you very unhappy?''Oh, my lord, we can find no work and have eaten nothing for two days!'answered she. 'Nothing remains for us but to die of hunger.''No, no, you shan't do that,' cried the king, 'or if you do, it will beyour own fault. You shall come with me into my palace, and you will feelas if you were in Paradise, I promise you. In return, I only ask onething of you, that you shall obey my orders exactly.'The charcoal burner and his wife both stared at him for a moment, asif they could hardly believe their ears. and, indeed, it was not to bewondered at! Then they found their tongues, and exclaimed together:'Oh, yes, yes, my lord! we will do everything you tell us. How could webe so ungrateful as to disobey you, when you are so kind?'The king smiled, and his eyes twinkled.'Well, let us start at once,' said he. 'Lock your door, and put the keyin your pocket.'The woman looked as if she thought this was needless, seeing it wasquite, quite certain they would never come back. But she dared not sayso, and did as the king told her.After walking through the forest for a couple of miles, they allthree reached the palace, and by the king's orders servants led thecharcoal burner and his wife into rooms filled with beautiful thingssuch as they had never even dreamed of. First they bathed in greenmarble baths where the water looked like the sea, and then they put onsilken clothes that felt soft and pleasant. When they were ready, oneof the king's special servants entered, and took them into a small hall,where dinner was laid, and this pleased them better than anything else.They were just about to sit down to the table when the king walked in.'I hope you have been attended to properly,' said he, 'and that you willenjoy your dinner. My steward will take care you have all you want, andI wish you to do exactly as you please. Oh, by the bye, there is onething! You notice that soup tureen in the middle of the table? Well, becareful on no account to lift the lid. If once you take off the cover,there is an end of your good fortune.' Then, bowing to his guests, heleft the room.'Did you hear what he said?' inquired the charcoal burner in anawe stricken voice. 'We are to have what we want, and do what we please.Only we must not touch the soup tureen.''No, of course we won't,' answered the wife. 'Why should we wish to?But all the same it is rather odd, and one can't help wondering what isinside.'For many days life went on like a beautiful dream to thecharcoal burner and his wife. Their beds were so comfortable, they couldhardly make up their minds to get up, their clothes were so lovely theycould scarcely bring themselves to take them off. their dinners were sogood that they found it very difficult to leave off eating. Then outsidethe palace were gardens filled with rare flowers and fruits and singingbirds, or if they desired to go further, a golden coach, painted withwreaths of forget me nots and lined with blue satin, awaited theirorders. Sometimes it happened that the king came to see them, and hesmiled as he glanced at the man, who was getting rosier and plumper eachday. But when his eyes rested on the woman, they took on a look whichseemed to say 'I knew it,' though this neither the charcoal burner norhis wife ever noticed.'Why are you so silent?' asked the man one morning when dinner hadpassed before his wife had uttered one word. 'A little while ago youused to be chattering all the day long, and now I have almost forgottenthe sound of your voice.''Oh, nothing. I did not feel inclined to talk, that was all!' Shestopped, and added carelessly after a pause, 'Don't you ever wonder whatis in that soup tureen?''No, never,' replied the man. 'It is no affair of ours,' and theconversation dropped once more, but as time went on, the woman spokeless and less, and seemed so wretched that her husband grew quitefrightened about her. As to her food, she refused one thing afteranother.'My dear wife,' said the man at last, 'you really must eat something.What in the world is the matter with you? If you go on like this youwill die.''I would rather die than not know what is in that tureen,' she burstforth so violently that the husband was quite startled.'Is that it?' cried he. 'are you making yourself miserable because ofthat? Why, you know we should be turned out of the palace, and sent awayto starve.''Oh no, we shouldn't. The king is too good natured. Of course he didn'tmean a little thing like this! Besides, there is no need to lift the lidoff altogether. Just raise one corner so that I may peep. We are quitealone: nobody will ever know.'The man hesitated: it did seem a 'little thing,' and if it was to makehis wife contented and happy it was well worth the risk. So he tookhold of the handle of the cover and raised it very slowly and carefully,while the woman stooped down to peep. Suddenly she startled back with ascream, for a small mouse had sprung from the inside of the tureen, andhad nearly hit her in the eye. Round and round the room it ran, roundand round they both ran after it, knocking down chairs and vases intheir efforts to catch the mouse and put it back in the tureen. In themiddle of all the noise the door opened, and the mouse ran out betweenthe feet of the king. In one instant both the man and his wife werehiding under the table, and to all appearance the room was empty.'You may as well come out,' said the king, 'and hear what I have tosay.''I know what it is,' answered the charcoal burner, hanging his head. Themouse has escaped.''A guard of soldiers will take you back to your hut,' said the king.'Your wife has the key.''Weren't they silly?' cried the grandchildren of the charcoal burnerswhen they heard the story. 'How we wish that we had had the chance! WEshould never have wanted to know what was in the soup tureen!'From 'Litterature Orale de l'Auvergne,' par Paul Sebillot.