In olden times it was the custom to kill the old people because theywere considered useless. A young man did not have the heart to kill hisold father, but as he stood in fear of the others, he hid his father inthecellar in an empty cask. He gave him food and drink secretly, so that nota soul was able to discover his secret.There came suddenly the order that all men capable of bearing armsshould get ready to fight a terrible monster which was spreading round itslair misery and trouble. The pious son did not know how to provide duringhis absence for the imprisoned father, so that he should not die of thirstand hunger. He brought all the victuals that were in the house, and hetold his father of his trouble, inasmuch as he might never return, andthathis beloved father would in consequence die a miserable death.The old man replied, "Should you not return, I willingly give up mywretched body to death. In order, however, that you should not die throughthis monster, listen to my advice. It will be a help to you. The cavern inwhich that monster lives has many hundred passages and corners which arecrossing and re crossing one another, so that even if you should succeedin killing the monster, you would never be able to find the way out, andyou will all die of hunger and thirst. Take therefore our black mare withher foal with you to the mouth of the cave and there kill and bury thefoal and take the mare with you. She is sure to bring you back after youhave killed the monster."After the old man had thus spoken, the young man took leave of him withtears in his eyes and went away with the other men. They arrived at themouth of the cave. He killed the foal as his father had advised him, buthe did not tell the others why he did so.After a heavy fight they succeeded at last in killing the monster, butfear seized upon the warriors when they discovered that in spite of muchsearching they could not find the way out. Then the young man took theblack mare and let her go on. He followed her and asked the others tofollow him.The mare started neighing and looking for her foal and hit at once uponthe right path, and after a while they reached the mouth of the cave. Whenthe others saw that they had escaped an inevitable death through thecleverness of their brother in arms, they wanted to know how he came todiscover this happy device. He feared that if he told the truth both heand his old father would lose their lives. But after they had promised himunder oath that no harm would befall him, he spoke out firmly and toldthem that he had kept his father alive in the cellar and that his fatherhad given him the advice about the mare when he went to take leave ofhim.On hearing this they were astounded, and one of them exclaimed, "Ourforefathers have not acted well in teaching us to kill the old men. Theyhave gained experience and they can help our people by their advice whenthe strength of our arm fails."