A poor widow's misery was increased by the knowledge that her son, heronly son, around whom she had built up many many hopes, was a half wit.One day she sent him to the bazaar with some cloth and told him to sellit for four rupees. The boy went, and sat down in the most publicthoroughfare of the city."How much do you want for that piece of cloth?" asked a man."Four rupees," replied the boy."All right. I'll give you six rupees for it. It is worth it. Here, takethe money.""No, no," said the boy. "Its price is four rupees.""You scamp!" exclaimed the man angrily, and went on. He thought the boywas joking with him.On reaching home in the evening he informed his mother of thisincident, and she was grieved that he had not taken the money.Another day she sent him to the bazaar, and advised him to salaameverybody, saying that nothing was ever lost by politeness, but, on thecontrary, everything was sometimes gained by it. The stupid boy salliedforth, and began making salaams to everybody and everything he met   asweeper, a horse, some little children, a house. A number of asses, too,passed by with loads on their backs, and he said "Salaam" to themalso."Hey! You fool! What are you doing?" said the donkey driver in charge."Don't you know that we say "Fri fri?" (an exclamation used for urging ondonkeys), whereupon the boy commenced saying "Fri fri" to every person andthing. He passed a man who had just spread a snare for a bird that he verymuch wished to catch, when "Fri fri" shouted the boy, and most effectuallyfrightened away the bird."You blackguard! What are you doing?" said the man. "You should say"Lag lag" in a very soft tone."Then the boy began to say "Lag lag." He was wandering about crying "Laglag" when he came across some thieves coming out of a garden, where theyhad just been stealing the fruit."What do you mean?" said they. "Be quiet, you fool, or say somethingelse. Go and shout, 'Let go one and take the other.'"So the boy did, and while he was shouting these words a funeral cortegepassed by."Be quiet," said some of the mourners. "Have you so little respect forthe dead? Get along home."At length, disappointed and disheartened, not knowing what to do orwhat to say, the half wit returned to his mother and told hereverything.