There was once a woman, good but simple, who had been twice married.One day when her husband was in the field  of course that was her second husband, you know   a weary tramp cametrudging by her door and asked for a drink ofwater. When she gave it to him, being rather a gossip, she asked where hecame from."From Paris," said the man.The woman was a little bit deaf, and thought the man said fromparadise. "From paradise! Did you meet there my poordear husband, Lord rest his soul?""What was his name?" asked the man."Why, John Goody, of course," said the woman. "Did you know him inparadise?""What, John Goody!" said the man. "Him and me was as thick asthieves.""Does he want for anything?" said the woman. "I suppose up in paradiseyou get all you want.""All we want! Why, look at me," said the man pointing to his rags andtatters. "They treat some of us right shabby up there.""Dear me, that's bad. Are you likely to go back?""Go back to paradise, marm? I should say. We have to be in every nightat ten.""Well, perhaps you wouldn't mind taking back some things for my poorold John," said the woman."Of course, marm. Delighted to help my old chum John."So the woman went indoors and got a big pile of clothes and a long pipeand three bottles of beer, and a beer jug, andgave them to the man. "But," he said, "please marm, I can't carry allthese by my own self. Ain't you got a horse or a donkeythat I can take along with me to carry them? I'll bring him backtomorrow."Then the woman said, "There's our old Dobbin in the stable. I can'tlend you mare Juniper 'cause my husband's plowing with her just now.""Ah, well, Dobbin'll do as it's only until tomorrow."So the woman got out Dobbin and saddled him, and the man took theclothes and the beer and the pipe and rode off with them.Shortly afterwards her husband came home and said, "What's become ofDobbin? He's not in the stable."So his wifetold him all that had happened. And he said, "I don't like that. How do weknow that he is going to paradise? And how dowe know that he'll bring Dobbin back tomorrow? I'll saddle Juniper and getthe things back. Which way did he go?"So he saddled Juniper and rode after the man, who saw him coming afaroff and guessed what had happened. So hegot off from Dobbin and drove him into a clump of trees near the roadside,and then went and laid down on his back andlooked up to the sky. When the farmer came up to him he got down fromJuniper and said, "What are you doing there?""Oh, such a funny thing," said the man. "A fellow came along here on ahorse with some clothes and things, and when hegot to the top of the hill here he simply gave a shout and the horse wentright up into the sky. and I was watching him when you came up.""Oh, it's all right then," said the farmer. "He's gone to paradise,sure enough," and went back to his wife.Next day they waited, and they waited for the man to bring back Dobbin.but he didn't come that day nor the next day,nor the next. So the farmer said to his wife, "My dear, we've been done.But I'll find that man if I have to trudge through thewhole kingdom. And you must come with me, as you know him.""But what shall we do with the house?" said the wife. "You know therehave been robbers around here, and while weare away they'll come and take my best china.""Oh, that's all right," said the farmer. "He who minds the door mindsthe house. So we'll take the door with us and then they can't get in."So he took the door off its hinges, and put it on his back and theywent along to find the man from paradise. So theywent along, and they went along, and they went along until night came, andthey didn't know what to do for shelter. So theman said, "That's a comfortable tree there. let us roost in the brancheslike the birds." So they took the door up with themand laid down to sleep on it as comfortable, as comfortable can be.Now it happened that a band of robbers had just broken into a castlenearby and taken out a great lot of plunder. andthey came under the very tree to divide it. And when they began to settlehow much each should have they began to quarreland woke up the farmer and his wife. They were so frightened when theyheard the robbers underneath them that they triedto get up farther into the tree, and in doing so let the door fall downright on the robbers' heads."The heavens are falling," cried the robbers, who were so frightenedthat they all rushed away. And the farmer and hiswife came down from the tree and collected all the booty and went home andlived happy ever afterwards.It was and it was not.