They were two brothers. Abel greatly loved Cain, but Cain did not loveso much the brother Abel.Cain had no great will to work.Abel, however, on the contrary, was greatly disposed ( si ingegnava ) to labor, becausehe had found it profitable. He was industrious in all, and at last becamea grazier ( mercante di manzi .And Cain also, being moved by jealousy ( per astia ), wished to become a grazier, butthe wheel did not turn for him as it did for Abel.And Cain also was a good man, and set himself contentedly to work,believing that he could become as rich as his brother, but he did notsucceed in this, for which reason he became so envious of Abel that itresulted in tremendous hate, and he swore to be revenged.Cain often visited his brother, and once said to him, "Abel, thou artrich and I am poor. Give me the half of thy wealth, since thou wishest me sowell!"Then Abel replied, "If I give thee a sum which thou thyself couldst gainby industry, thou shouldst still labor as I do, and I will give thee nothing,since, if thou wilt work as I do, thou wilt become as rich."One day there were together Cain, Abel, and a merchant, whose name Iforget. And one told that he had seen in a dream seven fat oxen and sevenlean. And the merchant, who was an astrologer or wizard, explained thatthe seven fat oxen meant seven years of abundance, and the seven lean asmany years of famine.And so it came to pass as he foretold   seven years of plenty andseven of famine.And Cain, hearing this, thought, "During the seven years of plenty Abelwill lay by a great store, and then I will slay him, and possess myself ofall his goods, and thus I will take care of myself, and my brother will bedead."Now, Cain greatly loved God. he was good towards God, more so than Abel,because Abel, having become rich, never spoke more unto the Lord. and Abelwould gladly have become a wizard himself.Then Cain began to think how he could slay Abel and become a merchantin his place, and so went forth to cut wood.One day he called his brother Abel, and said to him, "Thou art so rich,while I am poor, and all my work avails me little." And with that he gaveAbel a blow with a knife, and dressed himself in his garments, and took abundle of thorns on his back, and thus clad he took Abel's place as amerchant, believing that no one would recognize him as Cain.And while thus buying and selling he met the merchant wizard who hadforetold the seven years of famine and of abundance. And he said, "Oh,good day, Abel," to make Cain believe that he was not discovered. But theoxen who were present all began to chant in chorus:Do not call that person Abel.It is Cain, do you not see it?Cain who, for the greed of money,Treacherously slew his brother,And then clad him in his garments.Now, O Cain! thou wilt be summonedSpeedily unto the presenceOf the Lord, who had condemned theeUnto death for thy great avarice.Cain came before God.O great God of endless mercy,Thou who art so good and mighty,Grant, I pray thee, grant me pardonFor the good I did while living!Truly once, but for an instant,I forgot myself, but deeplyI since then have long repentedThat I slew my brother Abel.But God replied:A punishment thou shalt have because thou didst slay thybrother from a desire to become rich. Likewise thou didst meddle withwitchcraft and sorceries, as did thy brother. And Abel made much money andwas very rich, because he did not love God, but sorcerers. Albeit, evergood he never did evil things, and many good, wherefore God pardoned him.But thou shalt not be pardoned because thou didst imbrue thy hands inhuman blood, and, what is worse, in thy own brother's blood.The punishment which I inflict is this:The thorns which thou didst put upon thy brother are now for thee.Thou shalt be imprisoned in the moon, and from that place shalt beholdthe good and the evil of all mankind.And the bundle of thorns shall never leave thee, and every time whenanyone shall conjure thee, the thorns shall sting thee cruelly. They shalldraw thy blood.And thus shalt thou be compelled to do that which shall be required ofthee by the sorcerers or by conjuring, and if they ask of thee that whichthou wilt not give, then the thorns shall goad thee until the sorceriesshall cease.