a great surprise awaiting him.Finally the wagon arrived. It made no noise, for its wheels were boundwith straw and rags.It was drawn by twelve pair of donkeys, all of the same size, but allof different color. Some were gray, others white, and still others amixture of brown and black. Here and there were a few with large yellowand blue stripes.The strangest thing of all was that those twenty four donkeys, insteadof being iron shod like any other beast of burden, had on their feetlaced shoes made of leather, just like the ones boys wear.And the driver of the wagon?Imagine to yourselves a little, fat man, much wider than he was long,round and shiny as a ball of butter, with a face beaming like an apple,a little mouth that always smiled, and a voice small and wheedling likethat of a cat begging for food.No sooner did any boy see him than he fell in love with him, and nothingsatisfied him but to be allowed to ride in his wagon to that lovelyplace called the Land of Toys.In fact the wagon was so closely packed with boys of all ages that itlooked like a box of sardines. They were uncomfortable, they were piledone on top of the other, they could hardly breathe. yet not one word ofcomplaint was heard. The thought that in a few hours they would reach acountry where there were no schools, no books, no teachers, made theseboys so happy that they felt neither hunger, nor thirst, nor sleep, nordiscomfort.No sooner had the wagon stopped than the little fat man turned toLamp Wick. With bows and smiles, he asked in a wheedling tone:"Tell me, my fine boy, do you also want to come to my wonderfulcountry?""Indeed I do.""But I warn you, my little dear, there's no more room in the wagon. Itis full.""Never mind," answered Lamp Wick. "If there's no room inside, I can siton the top of the coach."And with one leap, he perched himself there."What about you, my love?" asked the Little Man, turning politely toPinocchio. "What are you going to do? Will you come with us, or do youstay here?""I stay here," answered Pinocchio. "I want to return home, as I preferto study and to succeed in life.""May that bring you luck!""Pinocchio!" Lamp Wick called out. "Listen to me. Come with us and we'llalways be happy.""No, no, no!""Come with us and we'll always be happy," cried four other voices fromthe wagon."Come with us and we'll always be happy," shouted the one hundred andmore boys in the wagon, all together. "And if I go with you, what willmy good Fairy say?" asked the Marionette, who was beginning to waver andweaken in his good resolutions."Don't worry so much. Only think that we are going to a land wherewe shall be allowed to make all the racket we like from morning tillnight."Pinocchio did not answer, but sighed deeply once twice a third time.Finally, he said:"Make room for me. I want to go, too!""The seats are all filled," answered the Little Man, "but to show youhow much I think of you, take my place as coachman.""And you?""I'll walk.""No, indeed. I could not permit such a thing. I much prefer riding oneof these donkeys," cried Pinocchio.No sooner said than done. He approached the first donkey and tried tomount it. But the little animal turned suddenly and gave him such aterrible kick in the stomach that Pinocchio was thrown to the ground andfell with his legs in the air.At this unlooked for entertainment, the whole company of runawayslaughed uproariously.The little fat man did not laugh. He went up to the rebellious animal,and, still smiling, bent over him lovingly and bit off half of his rightear.In the meantime, Pinocchio lifted himself up from the ground, and withone leap landed on the donkey's back. The leap was so well taken thatall the boys shouted,"Hurrah for Pinocchio!" and clapped their hands in hearty applause.Suddenly the little donkey gave a kick with his two hind feet and,at this unexpected move, the poor Marionette found himself once againsprawling right in the middle of the road.Again the boys shouted with laughter. But the Little Man, instead oflaughing, became so loving toward the little animal that, with anotherkiss, he bit off half of his left ear."You can mount now, my boy," he then said to Pinocchio. "Have no fear.That donkey was worried about something, but I have spoken to him andnow he seems quiet and reasonable."Pinocchio mounted and the wagon started on its way. While the donkeysgalloped along the stony road, the Marionette fancied he heard a veryquiet voice whispering to him:"Poor silly! You have done as you wished. But you are going to be asorry boy before very long."Pinocchio, greatly frightened, looked about him to see whence the wordshad come, but he saw no one. The donkeys galloped, the wagon rolledon smoothly, the boys slept (Lamp Wick snored like a dormouse) and thelittle, fat driver sang sleepily between his teeth.After a mile or so, Pinocchio again heard the same faint voicewhispering: "Remember, little simpleton! Boys who stop studying and turntheir backs upon books and schools and teachers in order to give alltheir time to nonsense and pleasure, sooner or later come to grief. Oh,how well I know this! How well I can prove it to you! A day will comewhen you will weep bitterly, even as I am weeping now but it will betoo late!"At these whispered words, the Marionette grew more and more frightened.He jumped to the ground, ran up to the donkey on whose back he had beenriding, and taking his nose in his hands, looked at him. Think how greatwas his surprise when he saw that the donkey was weeping weeping justlike a boy!"Hey, Mr. Driver!" cried the Marionette. "Do you know what strange thingis happening here! This donkey weeps.""Let him weep. When he gets married, he will have time to laugh.""Have you perhaps taught him to speak?""No, he learned to mumble a few words when he lived for three years witha band of trained dogs.""Poor beast!""Come, come," said the Little Man, "do not lose time over a donkey thatcan weep. Mount quickly and let us go. The night is cool and the road islong."Pinocchio obeyed without another word. The wagon started again. Towarddawn the next morning they finally reached that much longed for country,the Land of Toys.This great land was entirely different from any other place in theworld. Its population, large though it was, was composed wholly of boys.The oldest were about fourteen years of age, the youngest, eight. Inthe street, there was such a racket, such shouting, such blowing oftrumpets, that it was deafening. Everywhere groups of boys were gatheredtogether. Some played at marbles, at hopscotch, at ball. Others rode onbicycles or on wooden horses. Some played at blindman's buff, others attag. Here a group played circus, there another sang and recited. A fewturned somersaults, others walked on their hands with their feet in theair. Generals in full uniform leading regiments of cardboard soldierspassed by. Laughter, shrieks, howls, catcalls, hand clapping followedthis parade. One boy made a noise like a hen, another like a rooster,and a third imitated a lion in his den. All together they created sucha pandemonium that it would have been necessary for you to put cottonin your ears. The squares were filled with small wooden theaters,overflowing with boys from morning till night, and on the walls of thehouses, written with charcoal, were words like these: HURRAH FOR THELAND OF TOYS! DOWN WITH ARITHMETIC! NO MORE SCHOOL!As soon as they had set foot in that land, Pinocchio, Lamp Wick, andall the other boys who had traveled with them started out on a tour ofinvestigation. They wandered everywhere, they looked into every nook andcorner, house and theater. They became everybody's friend. Who could behappier than they?What with entertainments and parties, the hours, the days, the weekspassed like lightning."Oh, what a beautiful life this is!" said Pinocchio each time that, bychance, he met his friend Lamp Wick."Was I right or wrong?" answered Lamp Wick. "And to think you did notwant to come! To think that even yesterday the idea came into your headto return home to see your Fairy and to start studying again! If todayyou are free from pencils and books and school, you owe it to me, tomy advice, to my care. Do you admit it? Only true friends count, afterall.""It's true, Lamp Wick, it's true. If today I am a really happy boy, itis all because of you. And to think that the teacher, when speaking ofyou, used to say, 'Do not go with that Lamp Wick! He is a bad companionand some day he will lead you astray.'""Poor teacher!" answered the other, nodding his head. "Indeed I know howmuch he disliked me and how he enjoyed speaking ill of me. But I am of agenerous nature, and I gladly forgive him.""Great soul!" said Pinocchio, fondly embracing his friend.Five months passed and the boys continued playing and enjoyingthemselves from morn till night, without ever seeing a book, or a desk,or a school. But, my children, there came a morning when Pinocchio awokeand found a great surprise awaiting him, a surprise which made him feelvery unhappy, as you shall see.