Once upon a time there was a king whose wife died, leaving him a smalldaughter. With time she grew into a beautiful maiden, and when the kingsaw how beautiful she was he said to her, "I want to marry you. You mustbecome my wife.""How can you take me for a wife," said the girl, "for I am your daughter.""That is all the same to me. I want to marry you.""That is entirely impossible!" said the girl. "Just go to the bishop andlisten to what he says. If he says that you are right, then take me inGod's name."So the king went to the bishop and asked, "If someone has a lamb that hehimself has cared for and raised, is it better that he should eat it, orthat another person should eat it?""No," answered the bishop, "it is better for the person to eat it whoraised it."Then the king went back to his daughter and said, "He told me that I maytake you.""If he really told you that you make take me, then take me in God's name.But first make me two dresses of pure gold, and fill the pockets withducats. Also make a bed for me, and a shaft that goes ten fathoms deepinto the earth."When the king had done all this, the girl took the dresses, climbed intothe bed, then rode in into the shaft, saying, "Earth, open further." Andthe earth opened further, and she rode one until she came out at anotherplace, and there she remained.A prince was hunting there, and he found the girl, wrapped in an animalskin. He approached her and asked, "Are you a human?"She answered, "Yes, I am a human. May I go with you?"He replied, "For all I care you may come with me." He took her with himand let her herd the geese.One day the king gave a feast, and the women began to dance. Then the girlslipped out of her animal skin and went to the ball in her golden dress,and danced. The prince saw her and said to himself," Who can that be? Whenshe leaves the ball, I will follow her."When the ball was over the girl left, and the prince crept after her. Shenoticed him, and she began to run, and he ran after her. Then the girltook a handful of ducats and threw them to the ground. While the princewas gathering up the gold she slipped away and hid herself in her animalskin.Then the prince said, "Tomorrow I will give another feast, in order to seewho she is."The next day at the ball the girl came again and danced, and when she leftthe ball the prince ran after her. While running away she lost a shoe, andwhile the prince was picking it up she escaped half barefoot, then hidherself again in her animal skin.The prince took the shoe and tried it onto all the girls in order to seewhom it fitted, but he could not find the right one.When the servant girls were taking wash water to the king before he ate,the girl split her animal skin a little at her knee so that her gold dresswas visible. Then she went to the servant girls and said that she wouldlike to take the water to the king.But they said, "What? You, a goose girl want to take water to the king?""What is the matter?" asked the king."The goose girl want to bring your water.""Then let her do so. Just let her come."When she knelt down the golden dress shone through the slit. The princesaw this and cried out, "So you are the one who tormented me so!" And withthat he took her as his wife.