SplitOnce a carabao and a turtle met on a road. They walked in the woods, andhad a fine talk together. The turtle was a sort of humorist, and wasconstantly giving exhibitions of his dexterity in getting food bytrickery. But he was especially anxious to win the friendship of thecarabao. for he thought that, if they were friendly, this big fellow wouldhelp him whenever he got into trouble. So he said to the carabao, "Let uslive together and hunt our food together! thus we shall break the monotonyof our solitary lives."But the carabao snorted when he heard this proposal. and he replied, "Youslow thing! You ought to live with the drones, not with a swift andpowerful person like me."The turtle was very much offended, and to get even he challenged thecarabao to a race. At first the carabao refused to accept the challenge,for he thought it would be a disgrace for him to run against a turtle. Theturtle said to the carabao, "If you will not race with me, I will go toall the forests, woods, and mountains, and tell all your companions andall my friends and all the animal kingdom that you are a coward."Now the carabao was persuaded. and he said, "All right, only give me threedays to get ready for the race." The turtle was only too glad to have thecontest put off for three days, for then he too would have a chance toprepare his plans. The agreement between the turtle and the carabao wasthat the race should extend over seven hills.The turtle at once set out to visit seven of his friends. and, by tellingthem that if he could win this race it would be to the glory of the turtlekingdom, he got them to promise to help him. So the next day he stationeda turtle on the top of each hill, after giving them all instructions.The third day came. Early the next morning the turtle and the carabao metat the appointed hill. At a given signal the race began, and soon therunners lost sight of each other. When the carabao reached the secondhill, he was astonished to see the turtle ahead of him, shouting, "Here Iam!" After giving this yell, the turtle at once disappeared. And at everyhill the carabao found his enemy ahead of him.When the carabao was convinced at the seventh hill that he had beendefeated, he became so angry that he kicked the turtle. On account of thehardness of its shell, the turtle was uninjured. but the hoof of thecarabao was split in two, because of the force of the blow. And eventoday, the carabaos still bear the mark which an unjust action on the partof their ancestor against one whom he knew was far inferior to him instrength produced on himself.