Once upon a time there lived in a village a poor widow who had an only son named Andres. They lived in a small hut situated near the Patacbo forest. When Andres was between twelve and thirteen years old, his mother died. From now on he lived alone in his mean little hut, where he had to cook his own food and wash his clothes.One morning some boys invited Andres to go to the woods with them to trap. When they got to the forest, his companions set their traps in the places where the wild chickens used to feed. Then they went home. In the afternoon they returned to the woods, where they found that each trap had caught a wild cock. Now Andres became envious of his companions: so when he reached home, he took his knife and made two traps of his own. After he had finished them, he ran to the forest and set them. Early the next morning he went to the woods to see if he had caught anything. There he found two wild cocks snared. He took them home, sold one, and ate the other for his dinner. When he had finished eating, he made many traps, which he set up that afternoon. From now on he made his living by trapping, often catching as many as fifteen birds in a day. From the money he earned he was able to feed himself and buy clothes.One day, after Andres had been a trapper for many years, he went to the forest, as usual, to see what he had caught. He found that his traps had been moved, and that in one of them was a big monkey caught by the leg.As Andres was about to kill the monkey with a big stick which he picked up, the animal said to him, "My dear Andres, don't harm me! and I will be your helper by and by."Andres was much astonished to hear the monkey talk. He was moved to pity, and set the animal free. When he started toward his home, the monkey followed him. From now on they lived together. Soon the monkey learned how to sell wild chickens in the market.Now, in that town there lived a very rich man by the name of Toribio, who had a daughter named Aning. The people considered Aning the most beautiful lady in the province. However, none of the young men of the town courted Aning, for they felt unworthy and ashamed to woo the richest and most beautiful girl.One fine day the monkey went to town and sold wild chickens, as usual. On his way home he stopped at Don Toribio's house. Don Toribio asked what he wanted, and the monkey said that his master had sent him to borrow their money measure."Who is your master?" said Don Toribio."Don't you know? Don Andres, a very rich, handsome young gentleman who lives in the valley of Obong," said the monkey.Don Toribio at once lent the ganta  measure to the monkey, who thanked him and hurried home. Before he returned it to the owner the next morning, he put a peso, a fifty centavo piece, a peseta, and a media peseta in the cracks of the measure.When the monkey handed the ganta back to Don Toribio, the man said, "Why do you return it? Has your master finished measuring his money?""No, sir!" said the monkey, "we have not finished. but this box is too small, and it takes us too long to measure with it.""Well," said Don Toribio, "we have a bigger one than that. do you want to borrow it?""Yes, I do, if you will let me keep it till tomorrow," said the monkey.Don Toribio then brought a cavan , which equals about twenty five gantas.When the monkey reached home carrying the large measure, Andres said to him, "Where did you get that box?"The monkey said that it had been lent to him by the richest man in the town."What did you tell the man that you were going to do with it?" said Andres. " I told him that you wanted to count your money," said the monkey."Ah, me!" said Andres, "what money are you going to count? Don't you know that we are very poor?""Let me manage things, Andres," said the monkey, "and I promise you that you shall marry the beautiful daughter of the rich man."The following day Andres caught many wild chickens. When the monkey had sold them all in the market, he went back to their hut, and took the cavan which he had borrowed. Before returning it to Don Toribio, he stuck money in the cracks, as he had done to the first measure."Good morning, Don Toribio!" said the monkey.Don Toribio was sitting in a chair by the door of his house."Good morning, monkey! How do you do?" replied the rich man. "Have you come to return the box?""Yes, sir!" said the monkey. "We have finished. My master sends his thanks to you."When Don Toribio took the box and saw the money inside, he told the monkey about it. but the monkey said, "Never mind! we have plenty more in our house.""I am the richest man in town, yet I cannot throw money away like the master of this fellow," said Don Toribio to himself. "Perhaps he is even richer than I am."When the monkey was about to take his leave, the rich man told him to tell his master to come there on the third day. The monkey said that he would, and thanked Don Toribio for the invitation.On his way home, the monkey stopped at the market to buy a pair of shoes, some ready made clothes, and a hat for Andres. He took these things home to his master, and in three days had taught Andres how to walk easily with shoes on, how to speak elegantly, how to eat with a spoon and fork and knife, and how to tell Don Toribio that he wanted to marry his daughter.When the time came, Andres and the monkey set out for the town. They were welcomed by Don Toribio and his daughter Aning. After a short talk, Andres spoke of his purpose in coming there. He said that he wanted to marry Don Toribio's daughter. Don Toribio gladly accepted the offer, and said that the wedding would be held the next morning. Hasty preparations were made for the ceremony. In the morning a priest came, and Andres and Aning were married. Many guests were present, and everybody had a good time.A few years later Don Toribio died, and Andres inherited all his wealth. He then became a very rich man.