It happened in the old days at Rome that a slave named Androclesescaped from his master and fled into the forest, and he wandered therefor a long time until he was weary and well nigh spent with hunger anddespair. Just then he heard a lion near him moaning and groaning and attimes roaring terribly. Tired as he was Androcles rose up and rushed away,as he thought, from the lion. but as he made his way through the bushes hestumbled over the root of a tree and fell down lamed, and when he tried toget up there he saw the lion coming towards him, limping on three feet andholding his forepaw in front of him.Poor Androcles was in despair. he had not strength to rise and runaway, and there was the lion coming upon him. But when the great beastcame up to him instead of attacking him it kept on moaning and groaningand looking at Androcles, who saw that the lion was holding out his rightpaw, which was covered with blood and much swollen. Looking more closelyat it Androcles saw a great big thorn pressed into the paw, which was thecause of all the lion's trouble. Plucking up courage he seized hold of thethorn and drew it out of the lion's paw, who roared with pain when thethorn came out, but soon after found such relief from it that he fawnedupon Androcles and showed, in every way that he knew, to whom he owed therelief. Instead of eating him up he brought him a young deer that he hadslain, and Androcles managed to make a meal from it. For some time thelion continued to bring the game he had killed to Androcles, who becamequite fond of the huge beast.But one day a number of soldiers came marching through the forest andfound Androcles, and as he could not explain what he was doing they tookhim prisoner and brought him back to the town from which he had fled. Herehis master soon found him and brought him before the authorities, and hewas condemned to death because he had fled from his master. Now it used tobe the custom to throw murderers and other criminals to the lions in ahuge circus, so that while the criminals were punished the public couldenjoy the spectacle of a combat between them and the wild beasts.So Androcles was condemned to be thrown to the lions, and on theappointed day he was led forth into the Arena and left there alone withonly a spear to protect him from the lion. The Emperor was in the royalbox that day and gave the signal for the lion to come out and attackAndrocles. But when it came out of its cage and got near Androcles, whatdo you think it did? Instead of jumping upon him it fawned upon him andstroked him with its paw and made no attempt to do him any harm.It was of course the lion which Androcles had met in the forest. TheEmperor, surprised at seeing such a strange behavior in so cruel a beast,summoned Androcles to him and asked him how it happened that thisparticular lion had lost all its cruelty of disposition. So Androcles toldthe Emperor all that had happened to him and how the lion was showing itsgratitude for his having relieved it of the thorn. Thereupon the Emperorpardoned Androcles and ordered his master to set him free, while the lionwas taken back into the forest and let loose to enjoy liberty oncemore.