Right so the king (Arthur) and he (Merlin) departed, and went unto an hermit that was a good man and a great leech. So the hermit searched all his wounds and gave him good salves. so the king was there three days, and then were his wounds well amended that he might ride and go, and so departed.And as they rode, Arthur said, "I have no sword." (It had been broken into two pieces in a recent battle.)"No force," said Merlin. "Hereby is a sword that shall be yours, an I may."So they rode till they came to a lake, the which was a fair water and broad, and in the midst of the lake Arthur was ware of an arm clothed in white samite, that held a fair sword in that hand."Lo!" said Merlin, "Yonder is that sword that I spake of."With that they saw a damosel going upon the lake."What damosel is that?" said Arthur."That is the Lady of the Lake," said Merlin. "and within that lake is a rock, and therein is as fair a place as any on earth, and richly beseen. and this damosel will come to you anon, and then speak ye fair to her that she will give you that sword."Anon withal came the damosel unto Arthur, and saluted him, and he her again."Damosel," said Arthur, "what sword is that, that yonder the arm holdeth above the water? I would it were mine, for I have no sword.""Sir Arthur, king," said the damosel, "that sword is mine, and if ye will give me a gift when I ask it you, ye shall have it.""By my faith," said Arthur, "I will give you what gift ye will ask.""Well! said the damosel, go ye into yonder barge, and row yourself to the sword, and take it and the scabbard with you, and I will ask my gift when I see my time."So Sir Arthur and Merlin alit and tied their horses to two trees, and so they went into the ship, and when they came to the sword that the hand held, Sir Arthur took it up by the handles, and took it with him, and the arm and the hand went under the water....Then Sir Arthur looked on the sword, and liked it passing well."Whether liketh you better," said Merlin, "the sword or the scabbard?""Me liketh better the sword," said Arthur."Ye are more unwise," said Merlin, "for the scabbard is worth ten of the swords, for whiles ye have the scabbard upon you, ye shall never lose no blood be ye never so sore wounded, therefore keep well the scabbard always with you."