Pinocchio. The first pranks of the Marionette.Little as Geppetto's house was, it was neat and comfortable. It was asmall room on the ground floor, with a tiny window under the stairway.The furniture could not have been much simpler: a very old chair, arickety old bed, and a tumble down table. A fireplace full of burninglogs was painted on the wall opposite the door. Over the fire, therewas painted a pot full of something which kept boiling happily away andsending up clouds of what looked like real steam.As soon as he reached home, Geppetto took his tools and began to cut andshape the wood into a Marionette."What shall I call him?" he said to himself. "I think I'll call himPINOCCHIO. This name will make his fortune. I knew a whole family ofPinocchi once Pinocchio the father, Pinocchia the mother, and Pinocchithe children and they were all lucky. The richest of them begged forhis living."After choosing the name for his Marionette, Geppetto set seriously towork to make the hair, the forehead, the eyes. Fancy his surprisewhen he noticed that these eyes moved and then stared fixedly at him.Geppetto, seeing this, felt insulted and said in a grieved tone:"Ugly wooden eyes, why do you stare so?"There was no answer.After the eyes, Geppetto made the nose, which began to stretch as soonas finished. It stretched and stretched and stretched till it became solong, it seemed endless.Poor Geppetto kept cutting it and cutting it, but the more he cut, thelonger grew that impertinent nose. In despair he let it alone.Next he made the mouth.No sooner was it finished than it began to laugh and poke fun at him."Stop laughing!" said Geppetto angrily. but he might as well have spokento the wall."Stop laughing, I say!" he roared in a voice of thunder.The mouth stopped laughing, but it stuck out a long tongue.Not wishing to start an argument, Geppetto made believe he saw nothingand went on with his work. After the mouth, he made the chin, then theneck, the shoulders, the stomach, the arms, and the hands.As he was about to put the last touches on the finger tips, Geppettofelt his wig being pulled off. He glanced up and what did he see? Hisyellow wig was in the Marionette's hand. "Pinocchio, give me my wig!"But instead of giving it back, Pinocchio put it on his own head, whichwas half swallowed up in it.At that unexpected trick, Geppetto became very sad and downcast, more sothan he had ever been before."Pinocchio, you wicked boy!" he cried out. "You are not yet finished,and you start out by being impudent to your poor old father. Very bad,my son, very bad!"And he wiped away a tear.The legs and feet still had to be made. As soon as they were done,Geppetto felt a sharp kick on the tip of his nose."I deserve it!" he said to himself. "I should have thought of thisbefore I made him. Now it's too late!"He took hold of the Marionette under the arms and put him on the floorto teach him to walk.Pinocchio's legs were so stiff that he could not move them, and Geppettoheld his hand and showed him how to put out one foot after the other.When his legs were limbered up, Pinocchio started walking by himself andran all around the room. He came to the open door, and with one leap hewas out into the street. Away he flew!Poor Geppetto ran after him but was unable to catch him, for Pinocchioran in leaps and bounds, his two wooden feet, as they beat on the stonesof the street, making as much noise as twenty peasants in wooden shoes."Catch him! Catch him!" Geppetto kept shouting. But the people in thestreet, seeing a wooden Marionette running like the wind, stood still tostare and to laugh until they cried.At last, by sheer luck, a Carabineer happened along, who, hearing allthat noise, thought that it might be a runaway colt, and stood bravelyin the middle of the street, with legs wide apart, firmly resolved tostop it and prevent any trouble.Pinocchio saw the Carabineer from afar and tried his best to escapebetween the legs of the big fellow, but without success.The Carabineer grabbed him by the nose (it was an extremely long one andseemed made on purpose for that very thing) and returned him to MastroGeppetto.The little old man wanted to pull Pinocchio's ears. Think how he feltwhen, upon searching for them, he discovered that he had forgotten tomake them!All he could do was to seize Pinocchio by the back of the neck and takehim home. As he was doing so, he shook him two or three times and saidto him angrily:"We're going home now. When we get home, then we'll settle this matter!"Pinocchio, on hearing this, threw himself on the ground and refused totake another step. One person after another gathered around the two.Some said one thing, some another."Poor Marionette," called out a man. "I am not surprised he doesn't wantto go home. Geppetto, no doubt, will beat him unmercifully, he is somean and cruel!""Geppetto looks like a good man," added another, "but with boys he's areal tyrant. If we leave that poor Marionette in his hands he may tearhim to pieces!"They said so much that, finally, the Carabineer ended matters by settingPinocchio at liberty and dragging Geppetto to prison. The poor oldfellow did not know how to defend himself, but wept and wailed like achild and said between his sobs:"Ungrateful boy! To think I tried so hard to make you a well behavedMarionette! I deserve it, however! I should have given the matter morethought."What happened after this is an almost unbelievable story, but you mayread it, dear children, in the chapters that follow.