Long, long ago, in the days when fairies, witches, giants and ogresstill visited the earth, there lived a king who reigned over a great andbeautiful country. He was married to a wife whom he dearly loved, andhad two most promising children a son called Asmund, and a daughter whowas named Signy.The king and queen were very anxious to bring their children up well,and the young prince and princess were taught everything likely tomake them clever and accomplished. They lived at home in their father'spalace, and he spared no pains to make their lives happy.Prince Asmund dearly loved all outdoor sports and an open air life, andfrom his earliest childhood he had longed to live entirely in the forestclose by. After many arguments and entreaties he succeeded in persuadingthe king to give him two great oak trees for his very own.'Now,' said he to his sister, 'I will have the trees hollowed out, andthen I will make rooms in them and furnish them so that I shall be ableto live out in the forest.''Oh, Asmund!' exclaimed Signy, 'what a delightful idea! Do let me cometoo, and live in one of your trees. I will bring all my pretty thingsand ornaments, and the trees are so near home we shall be quite safe inthem.'Asmund, who was extremely fond of his sister, readily consented,and they had a very happy time together, carrying over all their pettreasures, and Signy's jewels and other ornaments, and arranging them inthe pretty little rooms inside the trees.Unfortunately sadder days were to come. A war with another country brokeout, and the king had to lead his army against their enemy. During hisabsence the queen fell ill, and after lingering for some time she died,to the great grief of her children. They made up their minds to livealtogether for a time in their trees, and for this purpose they hadprovisions enough stored up inside to last them a year.Now, I must tell you, in another country a long way off, there reigned aking who had an only son named Ring. Prince Ring had heard so much aboutthe beauty and goodness of Princess Signy that he determined to marryher if possible. So he begged his father to let him have a ship for thevoyage, set sail with a favourable wind, and after a time landed in thecountry where Signy lived.The prince lost no time in setting out for the royal palace, and on hisway there he met such a wonderfully lovely woman that he felt he hadnever seen such beauty in all his life. He stopped her and at once askedwho she was.'I am Signy, the king's daughter,' was the reply.Then the prince inquired why she was wandering about all by herself, andshe told him that since her mother's death she was so sad that whilsther father was away she preferred being alone.Ring was quite deceived by her, and never guessed that she was notPrincess Signy at all, but a strong, gigantic, wicked witch bent ondeceiving him under a beautiful shape. He confided to her that he hadtravelled all the way from his own country for her sake, having fallenin love with the accounts he had heard of her beauty, and he then andthere asked her to be his wife.The witch listened to all he said and, much pleased, ended by acceptinghis offer. but she begged him to return to his ship for a little whileas she wished to go some way further into the forest, promising to joinhim later on.Prince Ring did as she wished and went back to his ship to wait, whilstshe walked on into the forest till she reached the two oak trees.Here she resumed her own gigantic shape, tore up the trees by theirroots, threw one of them over her back and clasped the other to herbreast, carried them down to the shore and waded out with them to theship.She took care not to be noticed as she reached the ship, and directlyshe got on board she once more changed to her former lovely appearanceand told the prince that her luggage was now all on board, and that theyneed wait for nothing more.The prince gave orders to set sail at once, and after a fine voyagelanded in his own country, where his parents and his only sisterreceived him with the greatest joy and affection.The false Signy was also very kindly welcomed. A beautiful house was gotready for her, and Prince Ring had the two oaks planted in the gardenjust in front of her windows so that she might have the pleasure ofseeing them constantly. He often went to visit the witch, whom hebelieved to be Princess Signy, and one day he asked: 'Don't you think wemight be married before long?''Yes,' said she, quite pleased, 'I am quite ready to marry you wheneveryou like.''Then,' replied Ring, 'let us decide on this day fortnight. And see, Ihave brought you some stuff to make your wedding dress of.' So sayinghe gave her a large piece of the most beautiful brocade, all woven overwith gold threads, and embroidered with pearls and other jewels.The prince had hardly left her before the witch resumed her proper shapeand tore about the room, raging and storming and flinging the beautifulsilk on the floor.'What was SHE to do with such things?' she roared. 'SHE did not know howto sew or make clothes, and she was sure to die of starvation into thebargain if her brother Ironhead did not come soon and bring her some rawmeat and bones, for she really could eat nothing else.'As she was raving and roaring in this frantic manner part of the floorsuddenly opened and a huge giant rose up carrying a great chest in hisarms. The witch was enchanted at this sight, and eagerly helped herbrother to set down and open the chest, which was full of the ghastlyfood she had been longing for. The horrid pair set to and greedilydevoured it all, and when the chest was quite empty the giant put it onhis shoulder and disappeared as he had come, without leaving any traceof his visit.But his sister did not keep quiet for long, and tore and pulled at therich brocade as if she wanted to destroy it, stamping about and shoutingangrily.Now, all this time Prince Asmund and his sister sat in their trees justoutside the window and saw all that was going on.'Dear Signy,' said Asmund, 'do try to get hold of that piece of brocadeand make the clothes yourself, for really we shall have no rest day ornight with such a noise.''I will try,' said Signy. 'it won't be an easy matter, but it's worthwhile taking some trouble to have a little peace.'So she watched for an opportunity and managed to carry off the brocadethe first time the witch left her room. Then she set to work, cuttingout and sewing as best she could, and by the end of six days she hadturned it into an elegant robe with a long train and a mantle. When itwas finished she climbed to the top of her tree and contrived to throwthe clothes on to a table through the open window.How delighted the witch was when she found the clothes all finished! Thenext time Prince Ring came to see her she gave them to him, and he paidher many compliments on her skilful work, after which he took leave ofher in the most friendly manner. But he had scarcely left the house whenthe witch began to rage as furiously as ever, and never stopped till herbrother Ironhead appeared.When Asmund saw all these wild doings from his tree he felt he could nolonger keep silence. He went to Prince Ring and said: 'Do come withme and see the strange things that are happening in the new princess'sroom.'The prince was not a little surprised, but he consented to hide himselfwith Asmund behind the panelling of the room, from where they could seeall that went on through a little slit. The witch was raving and roaringas usual, and said to her brother:'Once I am married to the king's son I shall be better off than now.I shall take care to have all that pack of courtiers put to death, andthen I shall send for all my relations to come and live here instead.I fancy the giants will enjoy themselves very much with me and myhusband.'When Prince Ring heard this he fell into such a rage that he ordered thehouse to be set on fire, and it was burnt to the ground, with the witchand her brother in it.Asmund then told the prince about the two oak trees and took him to seethem. The prince was quite astonished at them and at all their contents,but still more so at the extreme beauty of Signy. He fell in love withher at once, and entreated her to marry him, which, after a time, sheconsented to do. Asmund, on his side, asked for the hand of PrinceRing's sister, which was gladly granted him, and the double wedding wascelebrated with great rejoicings.After this Prince Asmund and his bride returned to his country to livewith the king his father. The two couples often met, and lived happilyfor many, many years. And that is the end of the story.