"the Pilgrims' Fountain," whence the distance to Cairo was threeleagues. The Caravan had been expected at this time, and the merchantssoon had the pleasure of seeing their friends coming forth from thecity to meet them. They entered through the gate Bebel Falch, for itwas considered a good omen for those who came from Mecca to enter bythis gate, because the Prophet himself had passed through it.At the market place the four Turkish merchants took leave of thestranger and the Greek Zaleukos, and went home with their friends.Zaleukos, however, showed his companion a good caravansery, andinvited him to dine with him. The stranger agreed, and promised tomake his appearance as soon as he should have changed his dress. TheGreek made every arrangement for giving a fine entertainment to thestranger, for whom, upon the journey, he had conceived a deep feelingof esteem. and when the meats and drink had been brought in in properorder, he seated himself, waiting for his guest.He heard slow and heavy steps approaching through the gallery whichled to their apartment. He arose in order to meet him as a friend, andwelcome him upon the threshold. but, full of horror, he started backas the door opened the same frightful Red mantle walked in beforehim! His eyes were still turned upon him. it was no illusion: the samelofty, commanding figure, the mask, from beneath which shone forth thedark eyes, the red cloak with embroidery of gold all were but toowell known to him, impressed upon his mind as they had been during themost awful moments of his life.The breast of Zaleukos heaved with contending emotions. he had longsince felt reconciled towards this too well remembered apparition, andforgiven him. nevertheless his sudden appearance opened every woundafresh. All those torturing hours of anguish, that wo which hadenvenomed the bloom of his life, rushed back for a moment, crowdingupon his soul."What wishest thou, terrible one?" cried the Greek, as the apparitionstill stood motionless upon the threshold. "Away with thee, that I maycurse thee not!""Zaleukos!" said a well known voice from under the mask: "Zaleukos! isit thus that you receive your guest?" The speaker removed the mask,and threw back his cloak: it was Selim Baruch, the stranger! But stillZaleukos seemed not at ease, for he too plainly recognised in him theUnknown of the Ponte Vecchio: nevertheless, old habits of hospitalityconquered. he silently motioned to the stranger to seat himself at thetable."I can guess your thoughts," commenced the latter, when they had takentheir places: "your eyes look inquiringly upon me. I might have beensilent, and your gaze would never more have beheld me. but I owe youan explanation, and therefore did I venture to appear before you in myformer guise, even at the risk of receiving your curse. You once saidto me, 'The faith of my fathers bids me love him. and he is probablymore unhappy than myself:' be assured of this, my friend, and listento my justification."I must begin far back, in order that you may fully understand mystory. I was born in Alexandria, of Christian parents. My father, theyoungest son of an ancient illustrious French family, was consul forhis native land in the city I have just mentioned. From my tenth yearI was brought up in France, by one of my mother's brothers, and leftmy fatherland for the first time a few years after the revolutionbroke out there, in company with my uncle, who was no longer safe inthe land of his ancestors, in order to seek refuge with my parentsbeyond the sea. We landed eagerly, hoping to find in my father's housethe rest and quiet of which the troubles of France had deprived us.But ah! in my father's house I found not all as it should be: theexternal storms of these stirring times had not, it is true, reachedit. but the more unexpectedly had misfortune made her home in theinmost hearts of my family. My brother, a promising young man, firstsecretary of my father, had shortly before married a young lady, thedaughter of a Florentine noble who lived in our vicinity: two daysbefore our arrival she had suddenly disappeared, and neither ourfamily nor her own father could discern the slightest trace of her.At last they came to the conclusion that she had ventured too far in awalk, and had fallen into the hands of robbers. Almost agreeable wasthis thought to my poor brother, when compared to the truth, whichonly too soon became known. The perfidious one had eloped with a youngNeapolitan, with whom she had become acquainted in her father's house.My brother, who was exceedingly affected by this step, employed everymeans to bring the guilty one to punishment. but in vain: hisattempts, which in Naples and Florence had excited wonder, served onlyto complete his and our misfortune. The Florentine nobleman returnedto his native land, under the pretence of seeing justice done to mybrother, but with the real determination of destroying us all. Hefrustrated all those examinations which my brother had set on foot,and knew how to use his influence, which he had obtained in variousways, so well, that my father and brother fell under suspicion oftheir government, were seized in the most shameful manner, carried toFrance, and there suffered death by the axe of the executioner. Mypoor mother lost her mind. and not until ten long months had passed,did death release her from her awful situation, though for the fewlast days she was possessed of perfect consciousness. Thus did I nowstand isolated in the world: one thought alone occupied my whole soul,one thought alone bade me forget my sorrows. it was the mighty flamewhich my mother in her last moments had kindled within me."In her last moments, as I said, recollection returned. she had mesummoned, and spoke with composure of our fate, and her own death.Then she sent all out of the room, raised herself, with a solemn air,from her miserable bed, and said that I should receive her blessing,if I would swear to accomplish something with which she would chargeme. Amazed at the words of my dying mother, I promised with an oath todo whatever she should tell me. She thereupon broke forth inimprecations against the Florentine and his daughter, and charged me,with the most frightful threats of her curse, to avenge upon him themisfortunes of my house. She died in my arms. This thought ofvengeance had long slumbered in my soul. it now awoke in all itsmight. I collected what remained of my paternal property, and boundmyself by an oath to stake it all upon revenge, and, rather than beunsuccessful, to perish in the attempt."I soon arrived in Florence, where I kept myself as private aspossible. it was very difficult to put my plan in execution on accountof the situation which my enemy occupied. The old Florentine hadbecome governor, and thus had in his hand all the means of destroyingme, should he entertain the slightest suspicion. An accident came tomy assistance. One evening I saw a man in well known livery, walkingthrough the streets: his uncertain gait, his gloomy appearance, andthe muttered 'Santo sacramento,' and 'Maledetto diavolo,' soon made merecognise old Pietro, a servant of the Florentine, whom I had formerlyknown in Alexandria. There was no doubt but that he was in a passionwith his master, and I resolved to turn his humor to my advantage. Heappeared much surprised to see me there, told me his grievances, thathe could do nothing aright for his master since he had becomegovernor, and my gold supported by his anger soon brought him over tomy side. Most of the difficulty was now removed: I had a man in mypay, who would open to me at any hour the doors of my enemy, and fromthis time my plan of vengeance advanced to maturity with still greaterrapidity. The life of the old Florentine seemed to me too pitiful athing, to be put into the balance with that of my whole family.Murdered before him, he must see the dearest object of his love, andthis was his daughter Bianca. It was she that had so shamefullywronged my brother, it was she that had been the author of ourmisfortunes. My heart, thirsting for revenge, eagerly drank in theintelligence, that Bianca was on the point of being married a secondtime. it was settled she must die. But as my soul recoiled at thedeed, and I attributed too little nerve to Pietro, we looked aroundfor a man to accomplish our fell design. I could hire no Florentine,for there was none that would have undertaken such a thing against thegovernor. Thereupon Pietro hit upon a plan, which I afterwardsadopted, and he thereupon proposed you, being a foreigner and aphysician, as the proper person. The result you know: only, throughyour excessive foresight and honesty, my undertaking seemed, at onetime, to be tottering. hence the scene with the mantle."Pietro opened for us the little gate in the governor's palace. hewould have let us out, also, in the same secret manner, if we had notfled, overcome by horror at the frightful spectacle, which, throughthe crack of the door, presented itself to our eyes. Pursued by terrorand remorse, I ran on about two hundred paces, until I sank down uponthe steps of a church. There I collected myself again, and my firstthought was of you, and your awful fate, if found within the house."I crept back to the palace, but neither of Pietro nor yourself couldI discover a single trace. The door, however, was open, and I could atleast hope that you had not neglected this opportunity of flight."But when the day broke, fear of detection, and an unconquerablefeeling of remorse, allowed me to remain no longer within the walls ofFlorence. I hastened to Rome. Imagine my consternation, when, after afew days, the story was everywhere told, with the addition that, in aGrecian physician, they had detected the murderer. In anxious fear, Ireturned to Florence. my vengeance now seemed too great: I cursed itagain and again, for with your life it was purchased all too dearly. Iarrived on the same day which cost you a hand. I will not tell youwhat I felt, when I saw you ascend the scaffold, and bear all withsuch heroism. But when the blood gushed forth in streams, then was myresolution taken, to sweeten the rest of your days. What has sincehappened you know. it only now remains to tell you, why I havetravelled with you. As the thought that you had never yet forgiven me,pressed heavily upon me, I determined to spend some days with you, andat last to give you an explanation of what I had done."Silently had the Greek listened to his guest. with a kind look, as hefinished, he offered him his right hand."I knew very well that you must be more unhappy than I, for that awfuldeed will, like a thick cloud, forever darken your days. From my heartI forgive you. But answer me yet one question: how came you under thisform, in the wilderness? What did you set about, after purchasing myhouse in Constantinople?""I returned to Alexandria," answered the guest. "Hate against allmankind raged in my bosom. burning hate, in particular, against thatpeople, whom they call 'the polished nation.' Believe me, my Moslemfriends pleased me better. Scarcely a month had I been in Alexandria,when the invasion of my countrymen took place. I saw in them only theexecutioners of my father and brother. I, therefore, collected someyoung people of my acquaintance, who were of the same mind as myself,and joined those brave Mamelukes, who were so often the terror of theFrench host. When the campaign was finished, I could not make up mymind to return to the peaceful arts. With my little band of congenialfriends, I led a restless, careless life, devoted to the field and thechase. I live contented among this people, who honor me as theirchief. for though my Asiatics are not quite so refined as yourEuropeans, yet are they far removed from envy and slander, fromselfishness and ambition."Zaleukos thanked the stranger for his relation, but did not concealfrom him, that he would find things better suited to his rank andeducation, if he would live and work in Christian, in European lands.With delight his companion looked upon him."I know by this," said he, "that you have entirely forgiven me, thatyou love me: receive, in return, my heartfelt thanks." He sprang up,and stood in full height before the Greek, whom the warlike air, thedark sparkling eyes, the deep mysterious voice of his guest, almostinspired with fear. "Thy proposal is intended kindly," continued he."for another it might have charms. but I I cannot accept it. Alreadystands my horse saddled: already do my attendants await me. Farewell,Zaleukos!"The friends whom destiny had so strangely thrown together, embraced atparting. "And how may I call thee? What is the name of my guest, whowill forever live in my remembrance?" exclaimed the Greek.The stranger gazed at him some time, and said, as he pressed his handonce more: "They call me 'the lord of the wilderness.' I am THE ROBBERORBASAN!"THE END.