King Atli, Budli's son, and brother of Brynhild, then wedded Gudrun, whom Sigurd had had to wife. and they had children. King Atli invited to him Gunnar and Hogni, and they came at his invitation. Yet before they departed from their land, they hid the gold, Fafnir's heritage, in the Rhine, and that gold has never since been found.Now King Atli had a host in readiness, and fought with Gunnar and Hogni. and they were made captive. King Atli bade the heart be cut out of Hogni alive, and that was his end. Gunnar he caused to be cast into a den of serpents. But a harp was brought secretly to Gunnar, and he struck it with his toes, his hands being bound. he played the harp so that all the serpents fell asleep, saving only one adder, which glided over to him and gnawed into the cartilage of his breastbone so far that her head sank within the wound, and she clove to his liver till he died.Gunnar and Hogni were called Niflungs and Gjukungs, for which reason gold is called Treasure, or Heritage, of the Niflungs .A little while after, Gudrun slew her two sons, and caused flagons to be made of their skulls, set with gold and silver. Then the funeral feast was held for the Niflungs. and at this feast Gudrun had mead poured into the flagons for King Atli, and the mead was mixed with the blood of the boys. Moreover, she caused their hearts to be roasted and set before the king, that he might eat of them. And when he had eaten, then she herself told him what she had done, with many scathing words.There was no lack of strong drink there, so that most of the company had fallen asleep where they sat. That night she went to the king while he slept, and Hogni's son with her. they smote the king, and that was the death of him. Then they set fire to the hall, and burned the folk that were within.After that she went to the shore and leaped into the sea, desiring to make an end of herself. but she was tossed by the billows over the firth, and was borne to King Jonak's land. And when he saw her, he took her to him and wedded her, and they had three sons, called Sorli, Hamdir, and Erp. they were all raven black of hair, like Gunnar and Hogni and the other Niflungs.