Once upon a time there was a widowed old man who lived alone in a hutwith his little daughter. Very merry they were together, and they usedto smile at each other over a table just piled with bread and jam.Everything went well, until the old man took it into his head to marryagain.Yes, the old man became foolish in the years of his old age, and hetook another wife. And so the poor little girl had a stepmother. Andafter that everything changed. There was no more bread and jam on thetable, and no more playing bo peep, first this side of the samovar andthen that, as she sat with her father at tea. It was worse than that,for she never did sit at tea. The stepmother said that everything thatwent wrong was the little girl's fault. And the old man believed hisnew wife, and so there were no more kind words for his littledaughter. Day after day the stepmother used to say that the littlegirl was too naughty to sit at table. And then she would throw her acrust and tell her to get out of the hut and go and eat it somewhereelse.And the poor little girl used to go away by herself into the shed inthe yard, and wet the dry crust with her tears, and eat it all alone.Ah me! she often wept for the old days, and she often wept at thethought of the days that were to come.Mostly she wept because she was all alone, until one day she found alittle friend in the shed. She was hunched up in a corner of the shed,eating her crust and crying bitterly, when she heard a little noise.It was like this: scratch scratch. It was just that, a little graymouse who lived in a hole.Out he came, his little pointed nose and his long whiskers, his littleround ears and his bright eyes. Out came his little humpy body and hislong tail. And then he sat up on his hind legs, and curled his tailtwice round himself and looked at the little girl.The little girl, who had a kind heart, forgot all her sorrows, andtook a scrap of her crust and threw it to the little mouse. Themouseykin nibbled and nibbled, and there, it was gone, and he waslooking for another. She gave him another bit, and presently that wasgone, and another and another, until there was no crust left for thelittle girl. Well, she didn't mind that. You see, she was so happyseeing the little mouse nibbling and nibbling.When the crust was done the mouseykin looks up at her with his littlebright eyes, and "Thank you," he says, in a little squeaky voice."Thank you," he says. "you are a kind little girl, and I am only amouse, and I've eaten all your crust. But there is one thing I can dofor you, and that is to tell you to take care. The old woman in thehut (and that was the cruel stepmother) is own sister to Baba Yaga,the bony legged, the witch. So if ever she sends you on a message toyour aunt, you come and tell me. For Baba Yaga would eat you soonenough with her iron teeth if you did not know what to do.""Oh, thank you," said the little girl. and just then she heard thestepmother calling to her to come in and clean up the tea things, andtidy the house, and brush out the floor, and clean everybody's boots.So off she had to go.When she went in she had a good look at her stepmother, and sureenough she had a long nose, and she was as bony as a fish with all theflesh picked off, and the little girl thought of Baba Yaga andshivered, though she did not feel so bad when she remembered themouseykin out there in the shed in the yard.The very next morning it happened. The old man went off to pay a visitto some friends of his in the next village, just as I go off sometimesto see old Fedor, God be with him. And as soon as the old man was outof sight the wicked stepmother called the little girl."You are to go to day to your dear little aunt in the forest," saysshe, "and ask her for a needle and thread to mend a shirt.""But here is a needle and thread," says the little girl."Hold your tongue," says the stepmother, and she gnashes her teeth,and they make a noise like clattering tongs. "Hold your tongue," shesays. "Didn't I tell you you are to go to day to your dear little auntto ask for a needle and thread to mend a shirt?""How shall I find her?" says the little girl, nearly ready to cry, forshe knew that her aunt was Baba Yaga, the bony legged, the witch.The stepmother took hold of the little girl's nose and pinched it."That is your nose," she says. "Can you feel it?""Yes," says the poor little girl."You must go along the road into the forest till you come to a fallentree. then you must turn to your left, and then follow your nose andyou will find her," says the stepmother. "Now, be off with you, lazyone. Here is some food for you to eat by the way." She gave the littlegirl a bundle wrapped up in a towel.The little girl wanted to go into the shed to tell the mouseykin shewas going to Baba Yaga, and to ask what she should do. But she lookedback, and there was the stepmother at the door watching her. So shehad to go straight on.She walked along the road through the forest till she came to thefallen tree. Then she turned to the left. Her nose was still hurtingwhere the stepmother had pinched it, so she knew she had to gostraight ahead. She was just setting out when she heard a little noiseunder the fallen tree. "Scratch scratch."And out jumped the little mouse, and sat up in the road in front ofher."O mouseykin, mouseykin," says the little girl, "my stepmother hassent me to her sister. And that is Baba Yaga, the bony legged, thewitch, and I do not know what to do.""It will not be difficult," says the little mouse, "because of yourkind heart. Take all the things you find in the road, and do with themwhat you like. Then you will escape from Baba Yaga, and everythingwill be well.""Are you hungry, mouseykin?" said the little girl"I could nibble, I think," says the little mouse.The little girl unfastened the towel, and there was nothing in it butstones. That was what the stepmother had given the little girl to eatby the way."Oh, I'm so sorry," says the little girl. "There's nothing for you toeat.""Isn't there?" said mouseykin, and as she looked at them the littlegirl saw the stones turn to bread and jam. The little girl sat down onthe fallen tree, and the little mouse sat beside her, and they atebread and jam until they were not hungry any more."Keep the towel," says the little mouse. "I think it will be useful.And remember what I said about the things you find on the way. And nowgood bye," says he."Good bye," says the little girl, and runs along.As she was running along she found a nice new handkerchief lying inthe road. She picked it up and took it with her. Then she found alittle bottle of oil. She picked it up and took it with her. Then shefound some scraps of meat.(: There she was, beating with the pestle and sweepingWith the besom.)"Perhaps I'd better take them too," she said. and she took them.Then she found a gay blue ribbon, and she took that. Then she found alittle loaf of good bread, and she took that too."I daresay somebody will like it," she said.And then she came to the hut of Baba Yaga, the bony legged, the witch.There was a high fence round it with big gates. When she pushed themopen they squeaked miserably, as if it hurt them to move. The littlegirl was sorry for them."How lucky," she says, "that I picked up the bottle of oil!" and shepoured the oil into the hinges of the gates.Inside the railing was Baba Yaga's hut, and it stood on hen's legs andwalked about the yard. And in the yard there was standing Baba Yaga'sservant, and she was crying bitterly because of the tasks Baba Yagaset her to do. She was crying bitterly and wiping her eyes on herpetticoat."How lucky," says the little girl, "that I picked up a handkerchief!"And she gave the handkerchief to Baba Yaga's servant, who wiped hereyes on it and smiled through her tears.Close by the hut was a huge dog, very thin, gnawing a dry crust."How lucky," says the little girl, "that I picked up a loaf!" And shegave the loaf to the dog, and he gobbled it up and licked his lips.The little girl went bravely up to the hut and knocked on the door."Come in," says Baba Yaga.The little girl went in, and there was Baba Yaga, the bony legged, thewitch, sitting weaving at a loom. In a corner of the hut was a thinblack cat watching a mouse hole."Good day to you, auntie," says the little girl, trying not totremble."Good day to you, niece," says Baba Yaga."My stepmother has sent me to you to ask for a needle and thread tomend a shirt.""Very well," says Baba Yaga, smiling, and showing her iron teeth. "Yousit down here at the loom, and go on with my weaving, while I go andget you the needle and thread."The little girl sat down at the loom and began to weave.Baba Yaga went out and called to her servant, "Go, make the bath hotand scrub my niece. Scrub her clean. I'll make a dainty meal of her."The servant came in for the jug. The little girl begged her, "Be nottoo quick in making the fire, and carry the water in a sieve." Theservant smiled, but said nothing, because she was afraid of Baba Yaga.But she took a very long time about getting the bath ready.Baba Yaga came to the window and asked, "Are you weaving, little niece? Are you weaving, my pretty?""I am weaving, auntie," says the little girl.When Baba Yaga went away from the window, the little girl spoke to thethin black cat who was watching the mouse hole."What are you doing, thin black cat?""Watching for a mouse," says the thin black cat. "I haven't had anydinner for three days.""How lucky," says the little girl, "that I picked up the scraps ofmeat!" And she gave them to the thin black cat. The thin black catgobbled them up, and said to the little girl, "Little girl, do you want to get out of this?""Catkin dear," says the little girl, "I do want to get out of this,for Baba Yaga is going to eat me with her iron teeth.""Well," says the cat, "I will help you."Just then Baba Yaga came to the window."Are you weaving, little niece?" she asked. "Are you weaving, mypretty?""I am weaving, auntie," says the little girl, working away, while theloom went clickety clack, clickety clack.Baba Yaga went away.Says the thin black cat to the little girl: "You have a comb in yourhair, and you have a towel. Take them and run for it while Baba Yagais in the bath house. When Baba Yaga chases after you, you mustlisten. and when she is close to you, throw away the towel, and itwill turn into a big, wide river. It will take her a little time toget over that. But when she does, you must listen. and as soon as sheis close to you throw away the comb, and it will sprout up into such aforest that she will never get through it at all.""But she'll hear the loom stop," says the little girl."I'll see to that," says the thin black cat.The cat took the little girl's place at the loom.Clickety clack, clickety clack. the loom never stopped for a moment.The little girl looked to see that Baba Yaga was in the bath house,and then she jumped down from the little hut on hen's legs, and ran tothe gates as fast as her legs could flicker.The big dog leapt up to tear her to pieces. Just as he was going tospring on her he saw who she was."Why, this is the little girl who gave me the loaf," says he. "A goodjourney to you, little girl." and he lay down again with his headbetween his paws.When she came to the gates they opened quietly, quietly, withoutmaking any noise at all, because of the oil she had poured into theirhinges.Outside the gates there was a little birch tree that beat her in theeyes so that she could not go by."How lucky," says the little girl, "that I picked up the ribbon!" Andshe tied up the birch tree with the pretty blue ribbon. And the birchtree was so pleased with the ribbon that it stood still, admiringitself, and let the little girl go by.How she did run!Meanwhile the thin black cat sat at the loom. Clickety clack, clicketyclack, sang the loom. but you never saw such a tangle as the tanglemade by the thin black cat.And presently Baba Yaga came to the window."Are you weaving, little niece?" she asked. "Are you weaving, mypretty?""I am weaving, auntie," says the thin black cat, tangling andtangling, while the loom went clickety clack, clickety clack."That's not the voice of my little dinner," says Baba Yaga, and shejumped into the hut, gnashing her iron teeth. and there was no littlegirl, but only the thin black cat, sitting at the loom, tangling andtangling the threads."Grr," says Baba Yaga, and jumps for the cat, and begins banging itabout. "Why didn't you tear the little girl's eyes out?""In all the years I have served you," says the cat, "you have onlygiven me one little bone. but the kind little girl gave me scraps ofmeat."Baba Yaga threw the cat into a corner, and went out into the yard."Why didn't you squeak when she opened you?" she asked the gates."Why didn't you tear her to pieces?" she asked the dog."Why didn't you beat her in the face, and not let her go by?" sheasked the birch tree."Why were you so long in getting the bath ready? If you had beenquicker, she never would have got away," said Baba Yaga to theservant.And she rushed about the yard, beating them all, and scolding at thetop of her voice."Ah!" said the gates, "in all the years we have served you, you nevereven eased us with water. but the kind little girl poured good oilinto our hinges.""Ah!" said the dog, "in all the years I've served you, you never threwme anything but burnt crusts. but the kind little girl gave me a goodloaf.""Ah!" said the little birch tree, "in all the years I've served you,you never tied me up, even with thread. but the kind little girl tiedme up with a gay blue ribbon.""Ah!" said the servant, "in all the years I've served you, you havenever given me even a rag. but the kind little girl gave me a prettyhandkerchief."Baba Yaga gnashed at them with her iron teeth. Then she jumped intothe mortar and sat down. She drove it along with the pestle, and sweptup her tracks with a besom, and flew off in pursuit of the littlegirl.The little girl ran and ran. She put her ear to the ground andlistened. Bang, bang, bangety bang! she could hear Baba Yaga beatingthe mortar with the pestle. Baba Yaga was quite close. There she was,beating with the pestle and sweeping with the besom, coming along theroad.As quickly as she could, the little girl took out the towel and threwit on the ground. And the towel grew bigger and bigger, and wetter andwetter, and there was a deep, broad river between Baba Yaga and thelittle girl.The little girl turned and ran on. How she ran!Baba Yaga came flying up in the mortar. But the mortar could not floatin the river with Baba Yaga inside. She drove it in, but only got wetfor her trouble. Tongs and pokers tumbling down a chimney are nothingto the noise she made as she gnashed her iron teeth. She turned home,and went flying back to the little hut on hen's legs. Then she gottogether all her cattle and drove them to the river."Drink, drink!" she screamed at them. and the cattle drank up all theriver to the last drop. And Baba Yaga, sitting in the mortar, drove itwith the pestle, and swept up her tracks with the besom, and flew overthe dry bed of the river and on in pursuit of the little girl.The little girl put her ear to the ground and listened. Bang, bang,bangety bang! She could hear Baba Yaga beating the mortar with thepestle. Nearer and nearer came the noise, and there was Baba Yaga,beating with the pestle and sweeping with the besom, coming along theroad close behind.The little girl threw down the comb, and grew bigger and bigger, andits teeth sprouted up into a thick forest, thicker than this forestwhere we live so thick that not even Baba Yaga could force her waythrough. And Baba Yaga, gnashing her teeth and screaming with rage anddisappointment, turned round and drove away home to her little hut onhen's legs.The little girl ran on home. She was afraid to go in and see herstepmother, so she ran into the shed.Scratch, scratch! Out came the little mouse."So you got away all right, my dear," says the little mouse. "Now runin. Don't be afraid. Your father is back, and you must tell him allabout it."The little girl went into the house."Where have you been?" says her father. "and why are you so out ofbreath?"The stepmother turned yellow when she saw her, and her eyes glowed,and her teeth ground together until they broke.But the little girl was not afraid, and she went to her father andclimbed on his knee, and told him everything just as it had happened.And when the old man knew that the stepmother had sent his littledaughter to be eaten by Baba Yaga, he was so angry that he drove herout of the hut, and ever afterwards lived alone with the little girl.Much better it was for both of them."And the little mouse?" said Ivan."The little mouse," said old Peter, "came and lived in the hut, andevery day it used to sit up on the table and eat crumbs, and warm itspaws on the little girl's glass of tea.""Tell us a story about a cat, please, grandfather," said Vanya, whowas sitting with Vladimir curled up in his arms."The story of a very happy cat," said Maroosia. and then, scratchingBayan's nose, she added, "and afterwards a story about a dog.""I'll tell you the story of a very unhappy cat who became very happy,"said old Peter. "I'll tell you the story of the Cat who becameHead forester."