Far, far in the forest there were two little huts, and in each ofthem lived a man who was a famous hunter, his wife, and three or fourchildren. Now the children were forbidden to play more than a shortdistance from the door, as it was known that, away on the other side ofthe wood near the great river, there dwelt a witch who had a magic ballthat she used as a means of stealing children.Her plan was a very simple one, and had never yet failed. When shewanted a child she just flung her ball in the direction of the child'shome, and however far off it might be, the ball was sure to reach it.Then, as soon as the child saw it, the ball would begin rolling slowlyback to the witch, just keeping a little ahead of the child, so that healways thought that he could catch it the next minute. But he never did,and, what was more, his parents never saw him again.Of course you must not suppose that all the fathers and mothers whohad lost children made no attempts to find them, but the forest was solarge, and the witch was so cunning in knowing exactly where they weregoing to search, that it was very easy for her to keep out of the way.Besides, there was always the chance that the children might have beeneaten by wolves, of which large herds roamed about in winter.One day the old witch happened to want a little boy, so she threwher ball in the direction of the hunters' huts. A child was standingoutside, shooting at a mark with his bow and arrows, but the moment hesaw the ball, which was made of glass whose blues and greens and whites,all frosted over, kept changing one into the other, he flung down hisbow, and stooped to pick the ball up. But as he did so it began to rollvery gently downhill. The boy could not let it roll away, when it was soclose to him, so he gave chase. The ball seemed always within his grasp,yet he could never catch it. it went quicker and quicker, and the boygrew more and more excited. That time he almost touched it no, hemissed it by a hair's breadth! Now, surely, if he gave a spring hecould get in front of it! He sprang forward, tripped and fell, and foundhimself in the witch's house!'Welcome! welcome! grandson!' said she. 'get up and rest yourself, foryou have had a long walk, and I am sure you must be tired!' So the boysat down, and ate some food which she gave him in a bowl. It was quitedifferent from anything he had tasted before, and he thought it wasdelicious. When he had eaten up every bit, the witch asked him if he hadever fasted.'No,' replied the boy, 'at least I have been obliged to sometimes, butnever if there was any food to be had.''You will have to fast if you want the spirits to make you strong andwise, and the sooner you begin the better.''Very well,' said the boy, 'what do I do first?''Lie down on those buffalo skins by the door of the hut,' answered she.and the boy lay down, and the squirrels and little bears and the birdscame and talked to him.At the end of ten days the old woman came to him with a bowl of the samefood that he had eaten before.'Get up, my grandson, you have fasted long enough. Have the good spiritsvisited you, and granted you the strength and wisdom that you desire?''Some of them have come, and have given me a portion of both,' answeredthe boy, 'but many have stayed away from me.''Then,' said she, 'you must fast ten days more.'So the boy lay down again on the buffalo skins, and fasted for ten days,and at the end of that time he turned his face to the wall, and fastedfor twenty days longer. At length the witch called to him, and said:'Come and eat something, my grandson.' At the sound of her voice the boygot up and ate the food she gave him. When he had finished every scrapshe spoke as before: 'Tell me, my grandson, have not the good spiritsvisited you all these many days that you have fasted?''Not all, grandmother,' answered he. 'there are still some who keep awayfrom me and say that I have not fasted long enough.''Then you must fast again,' replied the old woman, 'and go on fastingtill you receive the gifts of all the good spirits. Not one must bemissing.'The boy said nothing, but lay down for the third time on the buffaloskins, and fasted for twenty days more. And at the end of that time thewitch thought he was dead, his face was so white and his body so still.But when she had fed him out of the bowl he grew stronger, and soon wasable to sit up.'You have fasted a long time,' said she, 'longer than anyone ever fastedbefore. Surely the good spirits must be satisfied now?''Yes, grandmother,' answered the boy, 'they have all come, and havegiven me their gifts.'This pleased the old woman so much that she brought him another basin offood, and while he was eating it she talked to him, and this is what shesaid: 'Far away, on the other side of the great river, is the home ofthe Bad One. In his house is much gold, and what is more precious eventhan the gold, a little bridge, which lengthens out when the Bad Onewaves his hand, so that there is no river or sea that he cannot cross.Now I want that bridge and some of the gold for myself, and that is thereason that I have stolen so many boys by means of my ball. I have triedto teach them how to gain the gifts of the good spirits, but none ofthem would fast long enough, and at last I had to send them awayto perform simple, easy little tasks. But you have been strong andfaithful, and you can do this thing if you listen to what I tell you!When you reach the river tie this ball to your foot, and it will takeyou across you cannot manage it in any other way. But do not be afraid.trust to the ball, and you will be quite safe!'The boy took the ball and put it in a bag. Then he made himself a cluband a bow, and some arrows which would fly further than anyone else'sarrows, because of the strength the good spirits had given him. They hadalso bestowed on him the power of changing his shape, and had increasedthe quickness of his eyes and ears so that nothing escaped him. And insome way or other they made him understand that if he needed more helpthey would give it to him.When all these things were ready the boy bade farewell to the witch andset out. He walked through the forest for several days without seeinganyone but his friends the squirrels and the bears and the birds, butthough he stopped and spoke to them all, he was careful not to let themknow where he was going.At last, after many days, he came to the river, and beyond it he noticeda small hut standing on a hill which he guessed to be the home of theBad One. But the stream flowed so quickly that he could not see how hewas ever to cross it, and in order to test how swift the current reallywas, he broke a branch from a tree and threw it in. It seemed hardlyto touch the water before it was carried away, and even his magic sightcould not follow it. He could not help feeling frightened, but he hatedgiving up anything that he had once undertaken, and, fastening the ballon his right foot, he ventured on the river. To his surprise he wasable to stand up. then a panic seized him, and he scrambled up the bankagain. In a minute or two he plucked up courage to go a little furtherinto the river, but again its width frightened him, and a second time heturned back. However, he felt rather ashamed of his cowardice, as it wasquite clear that his ball could support him, and on his third trial hegot safely to the other side.Once there he replaced the ball in the bag, and looked carefully roundhim. The door of the Bad One's hut was open, and he saw that the ceilingwas supported by great wooden beams, from which hung the bags of goldand the little bridge. He saw, too, the Bad One sitting in the midst ofhis treasures eating his dinner, and drinking something out of a horn.It was plain to the boy that he must invent some plan of getting the BadOne out of the way, or else he would never be able to steal the gold orthe bridge.What should he do? Give horrible shrieks as if he were in pain? But theBad One would not care whether he were murdered or not! Call him by hisname? But the Bad One was very cunning, and would suspect some trick. Hemust try something better than that! Then suddenly an idea came to him,and he gave a little jump of joy. 'Oh, how stupid of me not to think ofthat before!' said he, and he wished with all his might that the Bad Oneshould become very hungry so hungry that he could not wait a moment forfresh food to be brought to him. And sure enough at that instant theBad One called out to his servant, 'You did not bring food that wouldsatisfy a sparrow Fetch some more at once, for I am perfectly starving.'Then, without giving the woman time to go to the larder, he got up fromhis chair, and rolled, staggering from hunger, towards the kitchen.Directly the door had closed on the Bad One the boy ran in, pulled downa bag of gold from the beam, and tucked it under his left arm. Next heunhooked the little bridge and put it under his right. He did not try toescape, as most boys of his age would have done, for the wisdom put intohis mind by the good spirits taught him that before he could reach theriver and make use of the bridge the Bad One would have tracked him byhis footsteps and been upon him. So, making himself very small andthin, he hid himself behind a pile of buffalo skins in the corner, firsttearing a slit through one of them, so that he could see what was goingon.He had hardly settled himself when the servant entered the room, and,as she did so, the last bag of gold on the beam fell to the ground forthey had begun to fall directly the boy had taken the first one. Shecried to her master that someone had stolen both the bag and the bridge,and the Bad One rushed in, mad with anger, and bade her go and seek forfootsteps outside, that they might find out where the thief had gone. Ina few minutes she returned, saying that he must be in the house, as shecould not see any footsteps leading to the river, and began to move allthe furniture in the room, without discovering Ball Carrier.'But he must be here somewhere,' she said to herself, examining for thesecond time the pile of buffalo skins. and Ball Carrier, knowing that hecould not possibly escape now, hastily wished that the Bad One should beunable to eat any more food at present.'Ah, there is a slit in this one,' cried the servant, shaking the skin.'and here he is.' And she pulled out Ball Carrier, looking so lean andsmall that he would hardly have made a mouthful for a sparrow.'Was it you who took my gold and bridge?' asked the Bad One.'Yes,' answered Ball Carrier, 'it was I who took them.'The Bad One made a sign to the woman, who inquired where he had hiddenthem. He lifted his left arm where the gold was, and she picked up aknife and scraped his skin so that no gold should be left sticking toit.'What have you done with the bridge?' said she. And he lifted his rightarm, from which she took the bridge, while the Bad One looked on, wellpleased. 'Be sure that he does not run away,' chuckled he. 'Boil somewater, and get him ready for cooking, while I go and invite my friendsthe water demons to the feast.'The woman seized Ball Carrier between her finger and thumb, and wasgoing to carry him to the kitchen, when the boy spoke:'I am very lean and small now,' he said, 'hardly worth the trouble ofcooking. but if you were to keep me two days, and gave me plenty offood, I should get big and fat. As it is, your friends the water demonswould think you meant to laugh at them, when they found that I was thefeast.''Well, perhaps you are right,' answered the Bad One. 'I will keep youfor two days.' And he went out to visit the water demons.Meanwhile the servant, whose name was Lung Woman, led him into a littleshed, and chained him up to a ring in the wall. But food was givenhim every hour, and at the end of two days he was as fat and big as aChristmas turkey, and could hardly move his head from one side to theother.'He will do now,' said the Bad One, who came constantly to see how hewas getting on. 'I shall go and tell the water demons that we expectthem to dinner to night. Put the kettle on the fire, but be sure on noaccount to taste the broth.'Lung Woman lost no time in obeying her orders. She built up the fire,which had got very low, filled the kettle with water, and passing arope which hung from the ceiling through the handle, swung it overthe flames. Then she brought in Ball Carrier, who, seeing all thesepreparations, wished that as long as he was in the kettle the watermight not really boil, though it would hiss and bubble, and also, thatthe spirits would turn the water into fat.The kettle soon began to sing and bubble, and Ball Carrier was liftedin. Very soon the fat which was to make the sauce rose to the surface,and Ball Carrier, who was bobbing about from one side to the other,called out that Lung Woman had better taste the broth, as he though thatsome salt should be added to it. The servant knew quite well that hermaster had forbidden her to do any thing of the kind, but when oncethe idea was put into her head, she found the smell from the kettle sodelicious that she unhooked a long ladle from the wall and plunged itinto the kettle.'You will spill it all, if you stand so far off,' said the boy. 'whydon't you come a little nearer?' And as she did so he cried to thespirits to give him back his usual size and strength and to make thewater scalding hot Then he gave the kettle a kick, which upset all theboiling water upon her, and jumping over her body he seized once morethe gold and the bridge, picked up his club and bow and arrows, andafter setting fire to the Bad One's hut, ran down to the river, which hecrossed safely by the help of the bridge.The hut, which was made of wood, was burned to the ground before the BadOne came back with a large crowd of water demons. There was not a signof anyone or anything, so he started for the river, where he saw BallCarrier sitting quietly on the other side. Then the Bad One knew whathad happened, and after telling the water demons that there would be nofeast after all, he called to Ball Carrier, who was eating an apple.'I know your name now,' he said, 'and as you have ruined me, and I amnot rich any more, will you take me as your servant?''Yes, I will, though you have tried to kill me,' answered Ball Carrier,throwing the bridge across the water as he spoke. But when the Bad Onewas in the midst of the stream, the boy wished it to become small. andthe Bad One fell into the water and was drowned, and the world was ridof him.