Once upon a time there was a young fellow who enlisted as a soldier,conducted himself bravely, and was always at the very front when it was rainingbullets. As long as the war lasted all went well, but when peace was made he wasdismissed, and the captain said he could go wherever he wanted to.His parents were dead, and he had no longer a home, so he went to hisbrothers and asked them to support him until there was another war.The brothers, however, were hardhearted and said, "What can we do withyou? We have no work for you. See that you go and make a living foryourself."The soldier had nothing left but his gun, so, putting it on hisshoulder, he went forth into the world. He came to a large heath, on which nothing was to be seen but a circle of trees. Filled with sorrow, he sat down beneath themand thought about his fate."I have no money," he thought, "and the only trade I havelearned is that of making war, and now that they have made peace they canno longer use me, so I see that I shall starve."Suddenly he heard a rustling sound, and when he looked around, astrange man was standing before him. He wore a green jacket and looked quite stately, but he had a hideous horse's foot."I know what you are in need of," said the man. "You shallhave money and property, as much as you, with all your might, can squanderaway, but first I must know if you are fearless, so that I won't be givingaway my money for nothing.""A soldier and fear   how can those go together?" he answered,"You can put me to the test.""Very well," answered the man, "look behind you."The soldier turned around and saw a large growling bear running towardshim."Aha," shouted the soldier, "I'll tickle your nose until youlose your desire for growling." Then taking aim at the bear, he shot it inthe snout, and it fell down motionless."I see quite well," said the stranger, "that you do not lackfor courage, but there is one more condition that you will have tofulfill.""If it does not endanger my salvation," answered the soldier, whoknew quite well who was standing before him. "Otherwise I'll have nothingto do with it.""You'll see about that for yourself," answered Greenjacket."For the next seven years you are neither to wash yourself, nor comb yourbeard and hair, nor cut your nails, nor say the Lord's prayer. I will giveyou a jacket and a cloak, which you must wear during this time. If you dieduring these seven years, you are mine. If you stay alive, you are free, and richas well, for all the rest of your life."The soldier thought about his desperate situation, and having faceddeath so often before, he decided to risk it now as well, and he entered into theagreement.The devil took off his green jacket and gave it to the soldier, saying,"Whenever you wear this jacket and reach into its pocket, you will find ahandful of money."Then he pulled the skin off the bear and said, "This shall be yourcloak, and your bed as well, for you are to sleep on it, and you are notallowed to lie in any other bed. Because of your clothing you shall you becalled Bearskin." With that the devil disappeared.The soldier put on the jacket, immediately reached into the pocket, andfound that the promise was really true. Then he put on the bearskin andwent forth into the world. He did whatever he pleased, refraining from nothingthat did him good and his money harm.During the first year his appearance was still acceptable, but duringthe second he looked like a monster. His hair covered nearly his entire face.His beard looked like a piece of coarse felt cloth. His fingers had claws, andhis face was so covered with dirt that if someone had planted cress on it, itwould have grown. Everyone who saw him ran away. However, because everywhere hewent he gave money to the poor to pray that he might not die during the sevenyears, and because he paid well for everything, he always found shelter.In the fourth year he arrived an inn. The innkeeper would not let himenter, refusing even to let him have a place in the stable because he was afraidhe would frighten the horses. However, when Bearskin reached into his pocketand pulled out a handful of ducats, the innkeeper softened and gave him a roomin an outbuilding. Bearskin, however, had to promise not to let himself beseen, lest the inn should get a bad name.One evening Bearskin was sitting alone, wishing with all his heart thatthe seven years were over, he heard a loud moaning in a neighboring room. Hehad a compassionate heart, so he opened the door and saw an old man weepingbitterly and striking his hands together above his head. Bearskin went nearer, butthe man jumped to his feet and tried to run away. At last, hearing a humanvoice, the man let Bearskin talk to him, and with friendly words Bearskinsucceeded in getting the old man to reveal the cause of his grief. Slowly but surelythe old man had lost his wealth, and now he and his daughters would have tostarve. He was so poor that he could not pay the innkeeper and was to be sent toprison."If that is your only problem," said Bearskin, "I have moneyenough." He called for the innkeeper and paid him, and then put a bag fullof gold into the poor man's pocket.When the old man saw that he was freed from all his troubles he did notknow how to show his gratitude."Come with me," he said to Bearskin. "My daughters are allmiracles of beauty. Choose one of them for your wife. When she hears whatyou have done for me she will not refuse you. You do look a little strange, tobe sure, but she will put you in order again."This pleased Bearskin well, and he went with the old man.When the oldest daughter saw him she was so terrified at his face thatshe screamed and ran away.The second one stood still and looked at him from head to foot, butthen she said, "How can I accept a husband who no longer has a human form? Theshaved bear that once was here and passed itself off for a man pleased mefar better. At least it was wearing a hussar's fur and white gloves. Ifugliness were his only flaw, I could get used to him."The youngest one, however, said, "Father, dear, he must be a good manto have helped you out of your trouble. If you promised him a bride for doingso, your word must be kept."It was a pity that Bearskin's face was covered with dirt and hair, forotherwise they would have seen how his heart laughed within his body whenhe heard these words. He took a ring from his finger, broke it in two, and gave herone half. He kept the other half himself. He then wrote his name inside herhalf, and her name inside his. He asked her to take good care of her piece.Then he took leave saying, "I must wander about for three more years.If I do not return at that time you are free, for I shall be dead. But askGod to preserve my life."The poor bride to be dressed herself entirely in black, and when shethought about her future bridegroom, tears came into her eyes. From her sistersshe received nothing but contempt and scorn."Be careful," said the oldest. "If you give him your hand, hewill hit you with his claws.""Beware," said the second. "Bears like sweet things, and ifhe takes a liking to you, he will eat you up.""You must always do what he wants you to," continued the oldest,"or he will begin to growl."And the second added, "But the wedding will be merry, for bears dancewell."The bride to be said nothing and did not let them irritate her.Bearskin, however, traveled about the world from one place to another, did goodwherever he could, and gave generously to the poor that they might pray for him.Finally, at dawn on the last day of the seven years, he went once moreout to the heath, and seated himself beneath the circle of trees. Before longthe wind began to howl, and the devil stood before him, looking at himangrily. He threw Bearskin's old jacket to him and demanded the return of his owngreen one."We haven't gotten that far yet," answered Bearskin. "Firstof all you have to clean me up."Whether the devil wanted to or not, he had to fetch water and wash offBearskin, comb his hair, and cut his nails. After this he looked like abrave soldier and was much better looking than he had ever been before.When the devil was safely gone Bearskin was quite lighthearted. He wentinto the town, purchased a splendid velvet jacket, seated himself in a carriagedrawn by four white horses, and drove to his bride's house. No onerecognized him. The father took him for a distinguished colonel and led him into theroom where his daughters were sitting. He was given a seat between the twooldest ones. They poured wine for him, served him the finest things to eat, andthought that they had never seen a more handsome man in all the world.The bride to be, however, sat across from him in her black dresswithout raising her eyes or speaking a word. Finally he asked the father if hewould give him one of his daughters for a wife, whereupon the two oldest onesjumped up and ran into their bedrooms to put on splendid dresses, for each ofthem thought that she was the chosen one.As soon as he was alone with his bride to be, the stranger brought outhis half of the ring and dropped it into a glass of wine, which he handedacross the table to her. She took the wine, but when she had drunk it and foundthe half ring lying at the bottom, her heart began to beat. She took the otherhalf, which she wore on a ribbon around her neck, put them together, andsaw that the two pieces matched perfectly.Then he said, "I am your betrothed bridegroom, whom you saw asBearskin. Through God's grace I have regained my human form and havebecome clean again."He went to her, embraced her, and gave her a kiss. In the meantime thetwo sisters came back in full dress. When they saw that the youngest sisterhad received the handsome man, and heard that he was Bearskin, they ran outfilled with anger and rage. One of them drowned herself in the well. The otherhanged herself on a tree.That evening, someone knocked at the door, and when the bridegroomopened it, it was the devil in his green jacket, who said, "You see, I now havetwo souls for the one of yours."