In the year 1396 when Sigismundus, the former King of Hungary, was defeated by the Turkish emperor Celapino, a German soldier deserted his regiment in the thick of battle and took refuge in the woods.The foes of war were soon replaced by the enemies cold,thirst, and hunger. With nowhere to turn for help, he was about tosurrender to the powers of despair, when without warning an awful spiritappeared before him. He offered the poor soldier great wealth, if he wouldbut serve this uncanny master for seven years. Seeing no other escape fromhis misery, the soldier agreed.The terms of the pact were quickly stated: For seven years the soldier was to wear only a bearskin robe, both day and night. He was to say no prayers. Neither comb nor shears were to touch his hair and beard. He was not to wash, nor cut his nails, nor blow his nose, nor even wipe his behind. In return, the spirit would providehim with tobacco, food, drink, and an endless supply of money.The soldier, who by his very nature was not especially fond of either prayersor of cleanliness, entered into the agreement. He took lodgings in avillage inn, and discovered soon enough that his great wealth was amplecompensation for his strange looks and ill smell.A nobleman frequented this inn. Impressed by Bearskin's lavish and generous expenditures, he presented him with a proposal. "I have three beautiful daughters," he said. "If the terms are right, you may choose any one of them for abride."Bearskin named a sum that was acceptable to the nobleman, andthe two set forth to the palace to make the selection. The two olderdaughters made no attempt to hide their repugnance of the strange suitor,but the youngest unhesitatingly accepted her father's will. Bearskinformalized the betrothal by removing a ring from his own finger andtwisting it into two pieces. One piece he gave to his future bride. theother he kept. Saying that soon he would return, he departed.The seven years were nearly finished, so a short time later Bearskin did indeed comeback for his bride. Now freshly bathed, neatly shorn, elegantly dressed,and riding in a luxurious carriage, he was a suitor worthy of a princess.Identifying himself with his half of the twisted ring, he claimed hisbride.Beside themselves with envy, and furious that they hadsquandered their rights to this handsome nobleman, one of the bride'solder sisters hanged herself from a tree and the other one drowned herselfin a well. Thus the devil gained two souls for the one that he had lost.