There was once a merchant that had three daughters, and he loved thembetter than himself. Now it happened that he had to go a long journey tobuy some goods, and when he was just starting he said to them, "What shallI bring you back, my dears?"And the eldest daughter asked to have a necklace. and the seconddaughter wished to have a gold chain. but the youngest daughter said,"Bring back yourself, papa, and that is what I want the most.""Nonsense, child," said her father, "you must say something that I mayremember to bring back for you.""So," she said, "then bring me back a rose, father."Well, the merchant went on his journey and did his business and boughta pearl necklace for his eldest daughter, and a gold chain for his seconddaughter. but he knew it was no use getting a rose for the youngest whilehe was so far away because it would fade before he got home. So he made uphis mind he would get a rose for her the day he got near his house.When all his merchanting was done he rode off home and forgot all aboutthe rose till he was near his house. then he suddenly remembered what hehad promised his youngest daughter, and looked about to see if he couldfind a rose. Near where he had stopped he saw a great garden, and gettingoff his horse he wandered about in it till he found a lovely rosebush. andhe plucked the most beautiful rose he could see on it. At that moment heheard a crash like thunder, and looking around he saw a huge monster  two tusks in his mouth and fiery eyes surrounded by bristles, and hornscoming out of its head and spreading over its back."Mortal," said the beast, "who told you you might pluck my roses?""Please, sir," said the merchant in fear and terror for his life, "Ipromised my daughter to bring her home a rose and forgot about it till thelast moment, and then I saw your beautiful garden and thought you wouldnot miss a single rose, or else I would have asked your permission.""Thieving is thieving," said the beast, "whether it be a rose or adiamond. your life is forfeit."The merchant fell on his knees and begged for his life for the sake ofhis three daughters who had none but him to support them."Well, mortal, well," said the beast, "I grant your life on onecondition: Seven days from now you must bring this youngest daughter ofyours, for whose sake you have broken into my garden, and leave her herein your stead. Otherwise swear that you will return and place yourself atmy disposal."So the merchant swore, and taking his rose mounted his horse and rodehome.As soon as he got into his house his daughters came rushing round him,clapping their hands and showing their joy in every way, and soon he gavethe necklace to his eldest daughter, the chain to his second daughter, andthen he gave the rose to his youngest, and as he gave it he sighed."Oh, thank you, father," they all cried.But the youngest said, "Why did you sigh so deeply when you gave me myrose?""Later on I will tell you," said the merchant.So for several days they lived happily together, though the merchantwandered about gloomy and sad, and nothing his daughters could do wouldcheer him up till at last he took his youngest daughter aside and said toher, "Bella, do you love your father?""Of course I do, father, of course I do.""Well, now you have a chance of showing it". and then he told her ofall that had occurred with the beast when he got the rose for her. Bellawas very sad, as you can well think, and then she said, "Oh, father, itwas all on account of me that you fell into the power of this beast. so Iwill go with you to him. perhaps he will do me no harm. but even if hedoes   better harm to me than evil to my dear father."So next day the merchant took Bella behind him on his horse, as was thecustom in those days, and rode off to the dwelling of the beast. And whenhe got there and they alighted from his horse the doors of the houseopened, and what do you think they saw there! Nothing. So they went up thesteps and went through the hall, and went into the dining room, and therethey saw a table spread with all manner of beautiful glasses and platesand dishes and napery, with plenty to eat upon it. So they waited and theywaited, thinking that the owner of the house would appear, till at lastthe merchant said, "Let's sit down and see what will happen then." Andwhen they sat down invisible hands passed them things to eat and to drink,and they ate and drank to their heart's content. And when they arose fromthe table it arose too and disappeared through the door as if it werebeing carried by invisible servants.Suddenly there appeared before them the beast who said to the merchant,"Is this your youngest daughter?"And when he had said that it was, he said, "Is she willing to stop herewith me?"And then he looked at Bella who said, in a trembling voice, "Yes, sir.""Well, no harm shall befall you." With that he led the merchant down tohis horse and told him he might come that day each week to visit hisdaughter. Then the beast returned to Bella and said to her, "This housewith all that therein is is yours. if you desire aught, clap your handsand say the word and it shall be brought unto you." And with that he madea sort of bow and went away.So Bella lived on in the home with the beast and was waited on byinvisible servants and had whatever she liked to eat and to drink. but shesoon got tired of the solitude and, next day, when the beast came to her,though he looked so terrible, she had been so well treated that she hadlost a great deal of her terror of him. So they spoke together about thegarden and about the house and about her father's business and about allmanner of things, so that Bella lost altogether her fear of the beast.Shortly afterwards her father came to see her and found her quite happy,and he felt much less dread of her fate at the hands of the beast.So it went on for many days, Bella seeing and talking to the beastevery day, till she got quite to like him, until one day the beast did notcome at his usual time, just after the midday meal, and Bella quite missedhim. So she wandered about the garden trying to find him, calling out hisname, but received no reply. At last she came to the rosebush from whichher father had plucked the rose, and there, under it, what do you thinkshe saw! There was the beast lying huddled up without any life or motion.Then Bella was sorry indeed and remembered all the kindness that the beasthad shown her. and she threw herself down by it and said, "Oh, Beast,Beast, why did you die? I was getting to love you so much."No sooner had she said this than the hide of the beast split in two andout came the most handsome young prince who told her that he had beenenchanted by a magician and that he could not recover his natural formunless a maiden should, of her own accord, declare that she loved him.Thereupon the prince sent for the merchant and his daughters, and hewas married to Bella, and they all lived happy together ever afterwards.