Once upon a time there were three little kids who were very poor, and the eldest said: "What shall we do?"The second replied: "I don't know."And the third said: "I know what we will do. We will go to Benibaire's house and steal three flasks of oil.""Well thought of," said the others. "we will go there."After walking a league, they heard a voice crying: "Bah, bah."They saw a great sheep, and were afraid, and ran away, saying: "Fly, fly, it is going to attack us."But the sheep cried to them: "Don't be afraid. Where are you going?""To Benibaire's house, to steal three flasks of oil," they answered."Would you like me to go too?" said the sheep."Oh, yes," they replied. They went another league, and heard a voice that said: "Mieaou, mieaou."And they saw a very great black cat, and were frightened, and ran away, saying: "Fly, fly, it is going to scratch us."But the cat cried to them: "Don't be frightened, I won't scratch you. Where are you going?""To Benibaire's house, to steal three flasks of oil," they replied."Would you like me to go too?""Oh, do come," answered the kids.They went a league farther, and heard a voice crowing: "Cock a doodle doo."And the saw a very fiery cock, and were frightened, and fled, saying: "Fly, fly, it is going to peck us."The cock said to them: "Don't be afraid, I won't peck you. Where are you going?""To Benibaire's house, to steal three flasks of oil.""Would you like me to go?""By all means," replied the kids. They went another league, and saw a packing needle, and were frightened, and ran away, saying: "Fly, fly, It will prick us."But the needle said: "Don't be afraid, I won't prick you. Where are you going?""To Benibaire's house, to steal three flasks of oil.""Would you like me to go?""Yes, come along."They went another league, and arrived at Benibaire's house. and as it was night, the door was closed."How shall we get in?" said the little kids.To which the cock replied: "I will fly on to the roof, and get down the chimney."And he did so, and opened the door to them all.They entered the house, and said, "Where shall we hide ourselves?"The cock replied: "I have my place already. I will go into the chimney."The cat hid in the cinders. the needle put itself into the towel, and the sheep got behind the door. Then the kids went to the jars to draw the oil.Whilst they were drawing it they let the funnel fall, and this aroused Benibaire, who said: "Oh, Lord! thieves have got into my house."He got up and went to the chimney, and looked up the flue, to see if it were day. Whilst he was looking up, the cock dropped some lime into his eyes and blinded him. He ran to the towel to wipe his face, and as the needle was there, it pricked him. he went to kindle a fire by the eye of the cat in the ashes, and she darted out at him and scratched him. he went flying to the door, and when he got there the sheep gave him a push and he rolled into the street. he went to the mill, and fell into the river, and was drowned, and the three kids remained masters of the house, and had a very good time of it.