Print Llewelyn had a favourite greyhound named Gellert that had beengiven to him by his father in law, King John. He was as gentle as alamb at home but a lion in the chase. One day Llewelyn went to thechase and blew his horn in front of his castle. All his other dogs cameto the call but Gellert never answered it. So he blew a louder blast onhis horn and called Gellert by name, but still the greyhound did notcome. At last Prince Llewelyn could wait no longer and went off to thehunt without Gellert. He had little sport that day because Gellert wasnot there, the swiftest and boldest of his hounds.He turned back in a rage to his castle, and as he came to the gate,who should he see but Gellert come bounding out to meet him. But whenthe hound came near him, the Prince was startled to see that his lipsand fangs were dripping with blood. Llewelyn started back and thegreyhound crouched down at his feet as if surprised or afraid at theway his master greeted him.Now Prince Llewelyn had a little son a year old with whom Gellert usedto play, and a terrible thought crossed the Prince's mind that made himrush towards the child's nursery. And the nearer he came the more bloodand disorder he found about the rooms. He rushed into it and found thechild's cradle overturned and daubed with blood.Prince Llewelyn grew more and more terrified, and sought for his littleson everywhere. He could find him nowhere but only signs of someterrible conflict in which much blood had been shed. At last he feltsure the dog had destroyed his child, and shouting to Gellert,"Monster, thou hast devoured my child," he drew out his sword andplunged it in the greyhound's side, who fell with a deep yell and stillgazing in his master's eyes.As Gellert raised his dying yell, a little child's cry answered it frombeneath the cradle, and there Llewelyn found his child unharmed andjust awakened from sleep. But just beside him lay the body of a greatgaunt wolf all torn to pieces and covered with blood. Too late,Llewelyn learned what had happened while he was away. Gellert hadstayed behind to guard the child and had fought and slain the wolf thathad tried to destroy Llewelyn's heir.In vain was all Llewelyn's grief. he could not bring his faithful dogto life again. So he buried him outside the castle walls within sightof the great mountain of Snowdon, where every passer by might see hisgrave, and raised over it a great cairn of stones. And to this day theplace is called Beth Gellert, or the Grave of Gellert.