Prince Llewellyn had a favorite greyhound named Gellert that had beengiven to him by his father in law, King John. He was as gentle as a lambat home but a lion in the chase. One day Llewellyn went to the chase andblew his horn in front of his castle. All his other dogs came to the callbut Gellert never answered it. So he blew a louder blast on his horn andcalled Gellert by name, but still the greyhound did not come. At lastPrince Llewellyn could wait no longer and went off to the hunt withoutGellert. He had little sport that day because Gellert was not there, theswiftest and boldest of his hounds.He turned back in a rage to his castle, and as he came to the gate, whoshould he see but Gellert come bounding out to meet him. But when thehound came near him, the prince was startled to see that his lips andfangs were dripping with blood. Llewellyn started back and the greyhoundcrouched down at his feet as if surprised or afraid at the way his mastergreeted him.Now Prince Llewellyn had a little son a year old with whom Gellert usedto play, and a terrible thought crossed the prince's mind that made himrush towards the child's nursery. And the nearer he came the more bloodand disorder he found about the rooms. He rushed into it and found thechild's cradle overturned and daubed with blood.Prince Llewellyn grew more and more terrified, and sought for hislittle son everywhere. He could find him nowhere but only signs of someterrible conflict in which much blood had been shed. At last he felt surethe dog had destroyed his child, and shouting to Gellert, "Monster, thouhast devoured my child," he drew out his sword and plunged it in thegreyhound's side, who fell with a deep yell and still gazing in hismaster's eyes.As Gellert raised his dying yell, a little child's cry answered it frombeneath the cradle, and there Llewellyn found his child unharmed and justawakened from sleep. But just beside him lay the body of a great gauntwolf all torn to pieces and covered with blood. Too late, Llewellynlearned what had happened while he was away. Gellert had stayed behind toguard the child and had fought and slain the wolf that had tried todestroy Llewellyn's heir.In vain was all Llewellyn's grief. he could not bring his faithful dogto life again. So he buried him outside the castle walls within sight ofthe great mountain of Snowdon, where every passerby might see his grave,and raised over it a great cairn of stones. And to this day the place iscalled Beth Gellert, or the Grave of Gellert.