I one day was looking over the different monuments in Cranbrook Church inKent, when in the chancel my attention was arrested by one erected to thememory of Sir Richard Baker. The gauntlet, gloves, helmet, and spurs were(as is often the case in monumental erections of Elizabethan date)suspended over the tomb. What chiefly attracted my attention was the colorof the gloves, which was red.The old woman who acted as my cicerone, seeing me look at them, said,"Aye, miss, those are Bloody Baker's gloves. their red color comes fromthe blood he shed."This speech awakened my curiosity to hear more, and with very littlepressing I induced my old guide to tell me the following strange tale:The baker family had formerly large possessions in Cranbrook, but in thereign of Edward VI great misfortunes fell on them. by extravagance anddissipation they gradually lost all their lands, until an old house in thevillage (now used as the poor  house) was all that remained to them.The sole representative of the family remaining at the accession of QueenMary was Sir Richard Baker. He had spent some years abroad in consequenceof a duel. but when, said my informant, Bloody Queen Mary reigned, hethought he might safely return, as he was a Papist.When he came to Cranbrook he took up his abode in his old house. He onlybrought one foreign servant with him, and these two lived alone. Very soonstrange stories began to be whispered respecting unearthly shrieks havingbeen heard frequently to issue at nightfall from his house. Many people ofimportance were stopped and robbed in the Glastonbury woods, and manyunfortunate travelers were missed and never heard of more.Richard Baker still continued to live in seclusion, but he graduallyrepurchased his alienated property, although he was known to have spentall he possessed before he left England.But wickedness was not always to prosper. He formed an apparent attachmentto a young lady in the neighborhood, remarkable for always wearing a greatmany jewels. He often pressed her to come and see his old house, tellingher he had many curious things he wished to show her. She had alwaysresisted fixing a day for her visit, but happening to walk within a shortdistance of his house, she determined to surprise him with a visit. Hercompanion, a lady older than herself, endeavored to dissuade her fromdoing so, but she would not be turned from her purpose. They knocked atthe door, but no one answered them. they, however, discovered it was notlocked, and determined to enter. At the head of the stairs hung a parrot,which, on their passing, cried out:Peepoh, pretty lady, be not too bold,Or your red blood will soon run cold.And cold did run the blood of the adventurous damsel when, on opening oneof the room doors, she found it filled with the dead bodies of murderedpersons, chiefly women.Just then they heard a noise, and on looking out of the window saw BloodyBaker and his servant bringing in the murdered body of a lady. Nearly deadwith fear, they concealed themselves in a recess under the staircase.As the murderers with their dead burden passed by them, the hand of theunfortunate murdered lady hung in the baluster of the stairs. With an oathBloody Baker chopped it off, and it fell into the lap of one of theconcealed ladies. As soon as the murderers had passed by, the ladies ranaway, having the presence of mind to carry with them the dead hand, on oneof the fingers of which was a ring.On reaching home they told their story, and in confirmation of itdisplayed the ring. All the families who had lost relatives mysteriouslywere then told of what had been found out, and they determined to askBaker to a large party, apparently in a friendly manner, but to haveconstables concealed ready to take him into custody.He came, suspecting nothing, and then the lady told him all she had seen,pretending it was a dream."Fair lady," said he, "dreams are nothing. they are but fables.""They may be fables," said she. "but is this a fable?" and she producedthe hand and ring.Upon this the constables rushed in and took him. and the tradition furthersays, he was burnt, notwithstanding Queen Mary tried to save him, onaccount of the religion he professed.