Many years ago a village stood in the hollow which is now filled up by themere. But the inhabitants were a wicked race, who mocked at God and hispriest. They turned back to the idolatrous practices of their fathers, andworshipped Thor and Woden. They scorned to bend the knee, save in mockery,to the White Christ who had died to save their souls.The old priest earnestly warned them that God would punish such wickednessas theirs by some sudden judgment, but they laughed him to scorn. Theyfastened fish bones to the skirt of his cassock, and set the children topelt him with mud and stones. The holy man was not dismayed at this. nay,he renewed his entreaties and warnings, so that some few turned from theirevil ways and worshipped with him in the little chapel which stood on thebank of a rivulet that flowed down from the mere on the hillside.The rains fell that December in immense quantities. The mere was swollenbeyond its usual limits, and all the hollows in the hills were filled tooverflowing. One day when the old priest was on the hillside gatheringfuel he noticed that the barrier of peat, earth, and stones, whichprevented the mere from flowing into the valley, was apparently giving waybefore the mass of water above. He hurried down to the village andbesought the men to come up and cut a channel for the discharge of thesuperfluous waters of the mere. They only greeted his proposal with shoutsof derision, and told him to go and mind his prayers, and not spoil theirfeast with his croaking and his killjoy presence.These heathen were then keeping their winter festival with great revelry.It fell on Christmas Eve. The same night the aged priest summoned his fewfaithful ones to attend at the midnight mass, which ushered in the feastof our Savior's nativity. The night was stormy, and the rain fell intorrents, yet this did not prevent the little flock from coming to thechapel. The old servant of God had already begun the holy sacrifice, whena roar was heard in the upper part of the valley. The server was justringing the Sanctus bell which hung in the bell cot, when a flood of waterdashed into the church, and rapidly rose till it put out the altar lights.In a few moments more the whole building was washed away, and the mere,which had burst its mountain barrier, occupied the hollow in which thevillage had stood.Men say that if you sail over the mere on Christmas Eve, just aftermidnight, you may hear the Sanctus bell tolling.Here is another variant of the same legend, related to me by a lady in the parish of Condover, 1881:In the days of the Roman empire, when Uriconium was standing, a very wicked city stood where we now see Bomere Pool. The inhabitants had turned back from Christianity to heathenism, and though God sent one of the Roman soldiers to be a prophet to them, like Jonah to Nineveh, they would not repent. Far from that, they ill used and persecuted the preacher.Only the daughter of the governor remained constant to the faith. She listened gladly to the Christian's teaching, and he on his part loved her, and would have had her to be his wife. But no such happy lot was in store for the faithful pair. On the following Easter eve, sudden destruction came upon the city. The distant Caradoc (a hill) sent forth flames of fire, and at the same time the city was overwhelmed by a tremendous flood, while the sun in the heavens danced for joy, and the cattle in the stalls knelt in thanksgiving that God had not permitted such wickedness to go unpunished.But the Christian warrior was saved from the flood, and he took a boat and rowed over the waters, seeking for his betrothed, but all in vain. His boat was overturned, and he too was drowned in the depths of the mere. Yet whenever Easter eve falls on the same day as it did that year, the form of the Roman warrior may be seen again, rowing across Bomere in search of his lost love, while the church bells are heard ringing far in the depths below.