Boroltai Ku lived in a hut on grass, and was clothed in a felt coat. His only possession was a girdle. once he saw a fox's hole, and dug out the fox.She said to him: "Don't kill me, and I will marry thee to a khan's daughter, and will make thee a khan."Boroltai Ku let the fox go. She ran to Gurbushten Khan, and says: "Boroltai Ku, the rich khan, wishes to marry thy daughter.""If Boroltai Ku is indeed a rich khan then let him procure me a leopard, a lion, and an elephant," said Gurbushten Khan.The fox ran to Boroltai Ku, and said: "Give me three strings."Boroltai Ku took from his girdle three strings. The fox took them and went at first to the leopard and said: "Gurbushten Khan and Boroltai Ku, the rich khan, prepare a summer feast. and, as you are a famous animal, the khan wishes to invite you."She placed on the leopard the string and led him forth. In like manner she bridled the lion and the elephant, and led them to Gurbushten Khan.The khan ordered an iron Baishen house to be built, which was enclosed by three walls, and fettered the beasts with chains.Then he said: "If Boroltai Ku is indeed a rich khan, then let him drive his cattle and come here."The fox ordered Boroltai Ku to follow in her footsteps. Boroltai Ku went on foot in his bad coat. On the road to the khan they came to a river. the fox ordered Boroltai Ku to stay by the river, and herself ran on before to Gurbushten Khan, and says: "Boroltai Ku, the rich khan, is close at hand. but a misfortune has befallen him. all his cattle, his southern camels, all his silk garments and gold, at the time of his crossing sank   Boroltai is left naked. Send him quickly silken raiment in which he may visit you."Silken raiment they sent. Boroltai Ku came to the khan's camp. The khan gave him his daughter and let him go home, and as a guide gave him his Noi on.*The fox ran on ahead, and begged each herdsman on the road if a passer by should ask them whose is this cattle? to reply, "It is the cattle of Boroltai Ku, the rich khan."The Noi on dispatched by the khan received the same answer all along the road.The fox ran to the tent of the Khan Manguis, lay down at the door and groans. The khan asks: "What art thou groaning at, O fox? ""A misfortune will befall unfortunate me," said the fox. "a storm is coming.""Oh, dear, that is a misfortune to me, too," says the Khan Manguis."How to you?" says the fox. "You can order a hole ten fathoms deep to be dug, and can hide in it."So he did. Boroltai Ku appeared in the tent of the Khan Manguis, as if it was his own. The fox assured the Noi on of Gurbushten Khan that it was the house of Boroltai Ku, the rich khan."There is only one defect here," says she."What is that?""Under the tent under the earth a demon inhabits. Won't you bring down lightning to slay him?"The Noi on brought down lightning and it struck the Khan Manguis who was sitting in the hole. and Boroltai Ku became khan, and took all the possessions, the cattle, and the people of Manguis, and lived near Gurbushten Khan.