One sultry summer day, while the little boy was playing not far fromUncle Remus's cabin, a heavy black cloud made its appearance in the west,and quickly obscured the sky. It sent a brisk gale before it, as if toclear the path of leaves and dust. Presently there was a blinding flash oflightning, a snap and a crash, and, with that, the child took to hisheels, and ran to Uncle Remus, who was standing in his door."There now!" he exclaimed, before the echoes of the thunder had rolledaway.That dust and wind and rain puts me in mind of the time when old BrerRabbit went away off in the woods until he came to the Rainmaker's house.He knocked and went in, and he asked the Rainmaker if he couldn't fix itup so they could have a race between Brer Dust and Cousin Rain, to seewhich could run the fastest. The Rainmaker growled and grumbled, but byand by he agreed, but he said that if it was anybody but Brer Rabbit, hewouldn't give it but one thought.Well, they fixed the day, they did, and then Brer Rabbit put out towhere the creatures were staying and told them the news. They didn't knowhow Brer Rabbit knew, but they all wanted to see the race.Now, he and the Rainmaker had fixed it up so that the race would beright down the middle of the big road, and when the day came, that's wherehe made the creatures stand   Brer Bear at the bend of the road, BrerWolf a little further off, and Brer Fox at a point where the crossroadswere. Brer Coon and Brer Possum and the others he scattered about up anddown the road.To them who have to wait, it seems like the sun stops, and all theclocks with him. Brer Bear did some growling, Brer Wolf some howling, andBrer Possum some laughing, but after a while a cloud came up fromsomewhere. It wasn't such a big cloud, but Brer Rabbit knew that CousinRain was in there along with Uncle Wind. The cloud crept up, it did, untilit got right over the big road, and then it kind of dropped down a littlecloser to the ground. It looked like it kind of stopped, like a buggy, forCousin Rain to get out, so there would be a fair start. Well he got out,because the creatures could see him, and then Uncle Wind, he got out.And then, gentlemen, the race began to commence. Uncle Wind helped themboth. He had his bellows with him, and he blew them! Brer Dust got up fromwhere he was lying and came down the road just a whirling. He struck oldBrer Bear first, then Brer Wolf, and then Brer Fox, and after that all theother creatures, and it came mighty near suffocating them! Never in allyour born days have you ever heard such coughing and sneezing, suchsnorting and wheezing! And they all looked like they were painted red.Brer Bear sneezed so hard that he had to lie down in the road, and BrerDust came mighty near burying him. And it was the same with the othercreatures. They got their ears, their noses, and their eyes full.And then Cousin Rain came along pursuing Brer Dust, and he came mightynear drowning them. He left them covered with mud, and they were worse offthan before. It was the longest time before they could get the mud out oftheir eyes and ears. When they got so they could see a little bit, theytook notice that Brer Rabbit, instead of being full of mud, was as dry asa chip, if not dryer.It made them so mad that they all put out after him and tried theirlevel best to catch him, but if there was anything in the round world thatBrer Rabbit's got, it's supple feet, and it wasn't no time before theother creatures couldn't see hide nor hair of him! All the same, BrerRabbit hadn't bargained to have two races the same day."But, Uncle Remus," said the little boy, "which beat, Brother Dust orCousin Rain?"The old man stirred uneasily in his chair, and rubbed his chin with hishand. "They tell me," he responded cautiously, "that when Cousin Raincouldn't see anything of Brother Dust, he thought he was beaten, but hehollered out, 'Brer Dust, whereabouts are you?' and Brer Dust he holleredback, 'You'll have to excuse me. I fell down in the mud and can't run anymore!'"