Celtic Fairy TalesIn Treneglwys there is a certain shepherd's cot known by the name of Twty Cymrws because of the strange strife that occurred there.There once lived there a man and his wife, and they had twins whom thewoman nursed tenderly. One day she was called away to the house of aneighbor at some distance. She did not much like going and leaving herlittle ones all alone in a solitary house, especially as she had heardtell of the good folk haunting the neighborhood.Well, she went and came back as soon as she could, but on her way backshe was frightened to see some old elves of the blue petticoat crossingher path though it was midday. She rushed home, but found her two littleones in the cradle and everything seemed as it was before.But after a time the good people began to suspect that something waswrong, for the twins didn't grow at all.The man said: "They're not ours."The woman said: "Whose else should they be?"And so arose the great strife so that the neighbors named the cottageafter it. It made the woman very sad, so one evening she made up hermind to go and see the Wise Man of Llanidloes, for he knew everything andwould advise her what to do.So she went to Llanidloes and told the case to the Wise Man. Now therewas soon to be a harvest of rye and oats, so the Wise Man said to her,"When you are getting dinner for the reapers, clear out the shell of ahen's egg and boil some potage in it, and then take it to the door as ifyou meant it as a dinner for the reapers. Then listen if the twins sayanything. If you hear them speaking of things beyond the understandingof children, go back and take them up and throw them into the waters ofLake Elvyn. But if you don't hear anything remarkable, do them no injury."So when the day of the reap came the woman did all that the Wise Manordered, and put the eggshell on the fire and took it off and carried itto the door, and there she stood and listened. Then she heard one of thechildren say to the other:Acorn before oak I knew,An egg before a hen,But I never heard of an eggshell brewA dinner for harvest men.So she went back into the house, seized the children and threw them intothe Llyn, and the goblins in their blue trousers came and saved theirdwarfs and the mother had her own children back and so the great strifeended.