In a castle there once lived a count by the name of Rudolf. His wife had agolden cross on her forehead. Their daughter Adelheid had the same mark onher forehead. When she was twenty years old her mother suddenly died.The count's and his daughter's sorrow and grief were endless. After themother's burial, the father and his child locked themselves in their roomsand were seldom seen.After a month had passed, the count had his daughter brought to hisroom and said to her, "Dear child, you know how much I loved your mother.I cannot live without a wife. Therefore I am going out into the world toseek a wife who   like your blessed mother   has a golden cross on herforehead. If I do not find such a woman within a year and a day, then Iwill marry you."When Adelheid heard these words she was very upset, and she silentlywithdrew. The next morning Count Rudolf departed, promising to returnwithin a year and a day.When Adelheid was alone she considered whether or not it would bepossible for her father to find a woman with such a cross. Then sheremembered that her mother had once told her that except for her andAdelheid, no one on the entire earth had such a cross.She decided to go away. She would rather earn her bread with the workof her own hands than to eat the finest tidbits at her father's table ashis wife. She entrusted one of her loyal servants with her plan, and theymade preparations to depart.She secretly loaded her valuables, her jewelry, her gold, and herclothes into several large carriages. During the night she drove off withthem, accompanied by her servant Gotthold and several others who wereloyal to her. They came to a large city where she rented a house and movedinto it with her servants.Adelheid had often stated that she wanted to earn her bread with thework of her own hands. Therefore Gotthold sought a position for hismistress in the city. He learned that there was an opening for a kitchenmaid in the castle of Prince Adolf. Thus he went to the chief cook andasked him if he would be willing to hire his niece, for that is what hecalled the countess. As he talked further with the chief cook, Gottholdrecognized in him a friend whom he had not seen for many years. He toldhim that his brother had died, leaving a daughter in his care. The chiefcook agreed to hire her.The loyal servant happily returned to the countess and remained in therented house.Adelheid now dyed her face, neck, and hands brown. covered her goldencross and her hair with a large head scarf. took off her magnificentrobes, putting on instead old, dirty, torn clothing. and presented herselfto the chief cook.She was given a small room where she could sleep and keep her things.Slowly she grew accustomed to her job, even though she was exhausted bythe hard work.Until now she had not yet seen the prince. One day he invited all hisfriends and acquaintances to a great ball. On the morning of the ball,Adelheid was sweeping the staircase, when the prince, without being seenby her, walked up and tipped over the dust pail, thus dirtying his boots.As she was fleeing he angrily ripped the broom from her hands and threw itat her.That evening as the hall was filling with people, the young countesswent to the chief cook and asked him for permission to go to the ball.He replied, "No, I cannot allow you to do that. What if the prince wereto find out!"Adelheid continued to beg, until he finally said, "Just go. But don'tstay too late, and if you get anything, bring some back for me as well."Now she went to Gotthold's house, changed her clothes, washed away thecolor, and ordered up a splendid carriage in which she rode to theprince's.When the guests saw the splendid carriage approaching in the distancethey all hurried outside and said, "A foreign lady! A beautiful lady!"The prince hurried toward her, lifted her from her carriage, and ledher up the stairs. She had to dance with him the entire evening and to sitnext to him at the table. After eating, he asked her what her name was andwhere she came from."My name is Adelheid, and I come from Broomthrow," replied thecountess.At twelve o'clock she left, and with her the majority of guests.Arriving at home she quickly got undressed, colored herself brown, andtook three gold pieces which she gave to the chief cook, claiming that shehad stood behind a door and had received the gold from an old woman.The next morning the prince looked for Broomthrow on his maps, but hecould not find it. He wanted to ask her about her home city once again,but because he did not know where she lived he invited his friends to asecond ball.On the morning of the second ball Adelheid was brushing her clothingwhen the prince, without being seen, came up the stairs. She turned aroundand dropped the brush, which fell onto the prince's feet. Angrily Adolfpicked up the brush and threw it at the embarrassed countess's head.That evening the chief cook once again allowed her to go the ball, andshe took advantage of his permission. At the ball Adolf told her that hehad not been able to find Broomthrow."How could you be looking for Broomthrow?" she replied. "I saidBrushthrow."Once again they danced together, and as midnight approached she wenthome. She brought the chief cook a gold band, claiming that she hadreceived it as a gift.The next morning the prince looked for Brushthrow, but could not findit. He then invited his friends and acquaintances to a third ball, whichwas to be even more magnificent than the first two.On the eve of the ball, shortly before the festivities were to begin,Adelheid, contrary to custom, was combing her hair in the castle. Theprince, displeased because the foreign lady had not arrived yet, walked upthe stairs just as the countess dropped her comb. Prince Adolf picked itup and threw it at the kitchen servant's head. She quickly withdrew,changed her clothes, and went to the ball.At the table the prince said that he had not been able to findBrushthrow anywhere."I can believe that," she said. "I called the place Combthrow." Hedidn't want to believe her, but she argued with him until he finally gavein. Before she left he placed a ring on her finger, without her noticingit.The next morning the prince was not well, and he asked a chief cook tomake soup for him. The latter announced this in the kitchen, and Adelheidasked for permission to make the soup. But he said, "If you put somethingin the soup that doesn't belong there, then I am the one who will bepunished."She replied, "I will not put anything wrong in it." She made the soup,and without being seen, she threw the prince's ring into the soup.The prince poured the soup into a dish and heard something jingle. Hefelt around and fished out the ring. Amazed, he then asked who had madethe soup."The kitchen maid" was the answer.Adolph ordered his servant, "Bring her here."She hurriedly put on the dress that she had worn the previous evening,and when the prince saw her, he recognized his dance partner. She now hadto tell him her life story, and soon afterward he married her.In the meantime her father had come home, and when he discovered thathis daughter had already married, he had to accept his fate.