THERE was once on a time a widower who had a son and a daughter by hisfirst wife. They were both good children, and loved each other with alltheir hearts. After some time had gone by the man married again, and hechose a widow with one daughter who was ugly and wicked, and her motherwas ugly and wicked too. From the very day that the new wife came intothe house there was no peace for the man's children, and not a corner tobe found where they could get any rest. so the boy thought that the bestthing he could do was to go out into the world and try to earn his ownbread.When he had roamed about for some time he came to the King's palace,where he obtained a place under the coachman. and very brisk and activehe was, and the horses that he looked after were so fat and sleek, thatthey shone again.But his sister, who was still at home, fared worse and worse. Both herstep mother and her step sister were always finding fault with her,whatsoever she did and whithersoever she went, and they scolded her andabused her so that she never had an hour's peace. They made her do allthe hard work, and hard words fell to her lot early and late, but littleenough food accompanied them.One day they sent her to the brook to fetch some water home, and an uglyand horrible head rose up out of the water, and said, 'Wash me, girl!''Yes, I will wash you with pleasure,' said the girl, and began to washand scrub the ugly face, but she couldn't help thinking that it was avery unpleasant piece of work. When she had done it, and done it well,another head rose up out of the water, and this one was uglier still.'Brush me, girl!' said the head.'Yes, I will brush you with pleasure,' said the girl, and set to workwith the tangled hair, and, as may be easily imagined, this too was byno means pleasant work.When she had got it done, another and a much more ugly andhorrible looking head rose up out of the water.'Kiss me, girl!' said the head.'Yes, I will kiss you,' said the man's daughter, and she did it, butshe thought it was the worst bit of work that she had ever had to do inher life.So the heads all began to talk to each other, and to ask what theyshould do for this girl who was so full of kindliness.'She shall be the prettiest girl that ever was, and fair and bright asthe day,' said the first head.'Gold shall drop from her hair whenever she brushes it,' said thesecond.'Gold shall drop from her mouth whenever she speaks,' said the thirdhead.So when the man's daughter went home, looking as beautiful and bright asday, the step mother and her daughter grew much more ill tempered, andit was worse still when she began to talk, and they saw that goldencoins dropped from her mouth. The step mother fell into such a toweringpassion that she drove the man's daughter into the pig stye she mightstay there with her fine show of gold, the step mother said, but sheshould not be permitted to set foot in the house.It was not long before the mother wanted her own daughter to go to thestream to fetch some water.When she got there with her pails, the first head rose up out of thewater close to the bank. 'Wash me, girl!' it said.'Wash yourself!' answered the woman's daughter.Then the second head appeared.'Brush me, girl!' said the head.'Brush yourself!' said the woman's daughter.So down it went to the bottom, and the third head came up.'Kiss me, girl!' said the head.'As if I would kiss your ugly mouth!' said the girl.So again the heads talked together about what they should do for thisgirl who was so ill tempered and full of her own importance, and theyagreed that she should have a nose that was four ells long, and a jawthat was three ells, and a fir bush in the middle of her forehead, andevery time she spoke ashes should fall from her mouth.When she came back to the cottage door with her pails, she called to hermother who was inside, 'Open the door!''Open the door yourself, my own dear child!' said the mother.'I can't get near, because of my nose,' said the daughter.When the mother came and saw her you may imagine what a state of mindshe was in, and how she screamed and lamented, but neither the nose northe jaw grew any the less for that.Now the brother, who was in service in the King's palace, had taken aportrait of his sister, and he had carried the picture away with him,and every morning and evening he knelt down before it and prayed for hissister, so dearly did he love her.The other stable boys had heard him doing this, so they peeped throughthe key hole into his room, and saw that he was kneeling there before apicture. so they told everyone that every morning and evening the youthknelt down and prayed to an idol which he had. and at last they wentto the King himself, and begged that he too would peep through thekey hole, and see for himself what the youth did. At first the Kingwould not believe this, but after a long, long time, they prevailed withhim, and he crept on tip toe to the door, peeped through, and saw theyouth on his knees, with his hands clasped together before a picturewhich was hanging on the wall.'Open the door!' cried the King, but the youth did not hear.So the King called to him again, but the youth was praying so ferventlythat he did not hear him this time either.'Open the door, I say!' cried the King again. 'It is I! I want to comein.'So the youth sprang to the door and unlocked it, but in his haste heforgot to hide the picture.When the King entered and saw it, he stood still as if he were infetters, and could not stir from the spot, for the picture seemed to himso beautiful.'There is nowhere on earth so beautiful a woman as this!' said the King.But the youth told him that she was his sister, and that he had paintedher, and that if she was not prettier than the picture she was at allevents not uglier.'Well, if she is as beautiful as that, I will have her for my Queen,'said the King, and he commanded the youth to go home and fetch herwithout a moment's delay, and to lose no time in coming back. The youthpromised to make all the haste he could, and set forth from the King'spalace.When the brother arrived at home to fetch his sister, her stepmother andstep sister would go too. So they all set out together, and the man'sdaughter took with her a casket in which she kept her gold, and a dogwhich was called Little Snow. These two things were all that she hadinherited from her mother. When they had travelled for some time theyhad to cross the sea, and the brother sat down at the helm, and themother and the two half sisters went to the fore part of the vessel, andthey sailed a long, long way. At last they came in sight of land.'Look at that white strand there. that is where we shall land,' said thebrother, pointing across the sea.'What is my brother saying?' inquired the man's daughter.'He says that you are to throw your casket out into the sea,' answeredthe step mother.'Well, if my brother says so, I must do it,' said the man's daughter,and she flung her casket into the sea.When they had sailed for some time longer, the brother once more pointedover the sea. 'There you may see the palace to which we are bound,' saidhe.'What is my brother saying?' asked the man's daughter.'Now he says that you are to throw your dog into the sea,' answered thestep mother.The man's daughter wept, and was sorely troubled, for Little Snow wasthe dearest thing she had on earth, but at last she threw him overboard.'If my brother says that, I must do it, but Heaven knows how unwilling Iam to throw thee out, Little Snow!' said she.So they sailed onwards a long way farther.'There may'st thou see the King coming out to meet thee,' said thebrother, pointing to the sea shore.'What is my brother saying?' asked his sister again.'Now he says that you are to make haste and throw yourself overboard,'answered the step mother.She wept and she wailed, but as her brother had said that, she thoughtshe must do it. so she leaped into the sea.But when they arrived at the palace, and the King beheld the ugly bridewith a nose that was four ells long, a jaw that was three ells, and aforehead that had a bush in the middle of it, he was quite terrified.but the wedding feast was all prepared, as regarded brewing and baking,and all the wedding guests were sitting waiting, so, ugly as she was,the King was forced to take her.But he was very wroth, and none can blame him for that. so he caused thebrother to be thrown into a pit full of snakes.On the first Thursday night after this, a beautiful maiden came into thekitchen of the palace, and begged the kitchen maid, who slept there,to lend her a brush. She begged very prettily, and got it, and then shebrushed her hair, and the gold dropped from it.A little dog was with her, and she said to it, 'Go out, Little Snow, andsee if it will soon be day!'This she said thrice, and the third time that she sent out the dog tosee, it was very near dawn. Then she was forced to depart, but as shewent she said:'Out on thee, ugly Bushy Bride,Sleeping so soft by the young King's side,On sand and stones my bed I make,And my brother sleeps with the cold snake,Unpitied and unwept.'I shall come twice more, and then never again,' said she.In the morning the kitchen maid related what she had seen and heard,and the King said that next Thursday night he himself would watch in thekitchen and see if this were true, and when it had begun to grow dark hewent out into the kitchen to the girl. But though he rubbed his eyes anddid everything he could to keep himself awake it was all in vain, forthe Bushy Bride crooned and sang till his eyes were fast closed, andwhen the beautiful young maiden came he was sound asleep and snoring.This time also, as before, she borrowed a brush and brushed her hairwith it, and the gold dropped down as she did it. and again she sent thedog out three times, and when day dawned she departed, but as she wasgoing she said as she had said before, 'I shall come once more, and thennever again.'On the third Thursday night the King once more insisted on keepingwatch. Then he set two men to hold him. each of them was to take an arm,and shake him and jerk him by the arm whenever he seemed to be goingto fall asleep. and he set two men to watch his Bushy Bride. But as thenight wore on the Bushy Bride again began to croon and to sing, so thathis eyes began to close and his head to droop on one side. Then camethe lovely maiden, and got the brush and brushed her hair till the golddropped from it, and then she sent her Little Snow out to see if itwould soon be day, and this she did three times. The third time it wasjust beginning to grow light, and then she said:'Out on thee, ugly Bushy Bride,Sleeping so soft by the young King's side,On sand and stones my bed I make,And my brother sleeps with the cold snake,Unpitied and unwept.''Now I shall never come again,' she said, and then she turned to go. Butthe two men who were holding the King by the arms seized his hands andforced a knife into his grasp, and then made him cut her little fingerjust enough to make it bleed.Thus the true bride was freed. The King then awoke, and she told himall that had taken place, and how her step mother and step sisterhad betrayed her. Then the brother was at once taken out of thesnake pit the snakes had never touched him and the step mother andstep sister were flung down into it instead of him.No one can tell how delighted the King was to get rid of that hideousBushy Bride, and get a Queen who was bright and beautiful as day itself.And now the real wedding was held, and held in such a way that it washeard of and spoken about all over seven kingdoms. The King and hisbride drove to church, and Little Snow was in the carriage too. When theblessing was given they went home again, and after that I saw no more ofthem.(28)(28) From J. Moe.