A cat and a mouse wanted to live together and keep house as apartnership. They prepared for winter by buying a pot of fat, and becausethey had no safer spot for it, they placed it under the alter in thechurch until such time that they would need it. However, one day the cattook a longing for it, and approached the mouse. "Listen, little mouse, mycousin has invited me to serve as godfather. She has given birth to abrown and white spotted little son, and I am supposed to carry him to hisbaptism. Is it all right for me to leave you home alone with the houseworktoday?""Go ahead," said the mouse, "and if they serve you something good, justthink of me. I would certainly welcome a drop of good red christeningwine." But the cat went straight to the church and ate the top off the fatand then went strolling about the town and did not return home untilevening."You must have had a good time," said the mouse. "What name did theygive the child?""Top Off," answered the cat."Top Off? That's a strange name, one that I've not yet heard."Soon afterward the cat took another longing, went to the mouse, andsaid, "I've been asked to serve as godfather once again. The child has awhite ring around its body. I can't say no. You'll have to do me a favorand take care of the house by yourself today."The mouse agreed, and the cat went and ate up half the fat. When shereturned home, the mouse asked, "What name did this godchild receive?""Half Gone.""Half Gone? What are you telling me? I've never heard that name. Itcertainly isn't in the almanac."Now the cat could not take his mind off the pot of fat. "I've beeninvited to serve as godfather for a third time," he said. "The child isblack and has white paws, but not another white hair on his entire body.That only happens once in a few years. You will let me go, won't you?""Top Off, Half Gone," said the mouse. "Those names are so curious thatit makes me a bit suspicious, but go ahead."The mouse took care of the house and cleaned up everything, while thecat finished off the pot of fat. Round and full, she did not return untilnighttime."What is the third child's name?""All Gone.""All Gone! That is a worrisome name!" said the mouse. "All Gone. Justwhat does this mean? I've never seen that name in print," and she shookher head and went to bed.No one invited the cat to serve as godfather a fourth time. Winter sooncame, and when they could no longer find anything to eat outside, themouse said to the cat, "Let's get the provisions that we've hid in thechurch under the altar." They went there, but the pot was empty."Now I see!" said the mouse. "You came here when you said you wereinvited to be a godfather. First came Top Off, then it was Half Gone, andthen...""Be still," said the cat. "I'll eat you up, if you say anotherword.""All Gone" was already in the poor mouse's mouth, and she had scarcelysaid it before the cat jumped on her and swallowed her down.