A cat had made the acquaintance of a mouse, and had said so much to herabout the great love and friendship that he felt for her, that at last themouse agreed that they should live and keep house together. "But we mustmake preparations for winter, or else we shall suffer from hunger," saidthe cat, "and you, little mouse, cannot venture out everywhere, or in theend you will be caught in a trap."This good advice was followed, and they bought a pot of fat, but theydid not know where to store it. Finally, after much consideration, the catsaid, "I know of no place where it will be better stored up than in thechurch. No one dares take anything away from there. We will put it beneaththe altar, and not touch it until we are need it."So the pot was stored safely away, but it was not long before the cattook a great longing for it, and said to the mouse, "I wanted to tell you,little mouse, that my cousin has brought a little son into the world, andshe has asked me to be his godfather. He is white with brown spots, and Iam to hold him over the baptismal font. Let me go out today, and you lookafter the house by yourself.""Yes, yes," answered the mouse. "By all means go, and if you getanything good to eat, think of me. I would like to drink a drop of sweetred christening wine myself."All this, however, was untrue. The cat had no cousin, and had not beenasked to be godfather. He went straight to the church, crept up to the potof fat, began to lick at it, and licked off the top of the fat. Then hewent for a stroll on the roofs of the town, looked out for opportunities,and then stretched out in the sun, licking his whiskers whenever hethought of the pot of fat. He did not return home until it wasevening."Well, here you are again," said the mouse. "You must have had a happyday.""Everything went well," answered the cat."What name did they give the child?" asked the mouse."Top Off," said the cat quite coolly."Top Off?" cried the mouse. "That is a very odd and uncommon name. Isit a usual one in your family?""What does that matter?", said the cat. "It is no worse thanCrumb Thief, as your godchildren are called."Before long the cat was seized by another fit of longing. He said tothe mouse, "You must do me a favor, and once more manage the house alonefor a day. I have been asked again to be godfather, and since the childhas a white ring around its neck, I cannot refuse."The good mouse consented. However, the cat crept behind the town wallto the church, and devoured half the pot of fat. "Nothing tastes as goodas that which one eats by oneself," he said, and was quite satisfied withhis day's work.When he arrived home the mouse asked, "What name was this childchristened with?""Half Gone," answered the cat."Half Gone? What are you saying? I have never heard that name in all mylife. I'll wager it is not in the almanac."The cat's mouth soon again began to water for the delicious goods. "Allgood things come in threes," he said to the mouse. "I have been asked tobe godfather again. The child is totally black, only it has white paws.Otherwise it has not a single white hair on its whole body. This onlyhappens once every few years. You will let me go, won't you?""Top Off. Half Gone," answered the mouse. "They are such odd names,that they make me stop and think.""Here you sit at home," said the cat, "with your dark gray fur coat andlong braid of hair capturing fantasies. That is because you do not go outin the daytime."During the cat's absence the mouse cleaned the house, and put it inorder, but the greedy cat devoured all the rest of the fat. "One has peaceonly after everything is eaten up," he said to himself. Well filled andfat, he did not return home until nighttime.The mouse immediately asked what name had been given to the thirdchild."You will not like it either," said the cat. "His name isAll Gone.""All Gone!", cried the mouse. "That is the most worrisome name of all.I have never seen it in print. All Gone! What can that mean?" Then sheshook her head, curled herself up, and lay down to sleep.From this time forth no one invited the cat to be godfather, but whenwinter had come and there was no longer anything to be found outside, themouse thought of their stored food, and said, "Come cat, we will go to ourpot of fat which we have stored up for ourselves. It will taste good now.""Yes," answered the cat. "You will enjoy it as much as you would enjoysticking that dainty tongue of yours out of the window."They set out on their way, but when they arrived, the pot of fat, to besure, was still in its place, but it was empty. "Alas," said the mouse,"now I see what has happened. Now it comes to light. You are a truefriend. You ate everything when you were serving as a godfather. First topoff, then half done, then ...""Be quiet!" cried the cat. "One more word, and I will eat you too.""All gone" was already on the poor mouse's lips. She had scarcelyspoken it before the cat sprang on her, seized her, and swallowed herdown. You see, that is the way of the world.