Once upon a time a cat and a mouse went for a walk together, and the catbit off the mouse's tail.So the mouse said to the cat, "Give me back my tail."The cat said to the mouse, "If you will get me some cheese."So the mouse went to the innkeeper and said:Innkeeper, give me some cheese! I'll give it to the cat,And the cat will give me back my tail.The innkeeper said, "If you will fetch me a knife."So the mouse went to the blacksmith and said:Blacksmith, give me a knife! I'll give it to the innkeeper,And the innkeeper will give me cheese for the cat,And the cat will give me back my tail.The blacksmith said, "If you will fetch me a horn."So the mouse went to the goat and said:Goat, give me a horn! I'll give it to the blacksmith,And the blacksmith will give me a knife for the innkeeper,And the innkeeper will give me cheese for the cat,And the cat will give me back my tail.The goat said, "If you will fetch me some hay."So the mouse went to the farmer and said:Farmer, give me hay! I'll give it to the goat,And the goat will give me a horn for the blacksmith,And the blacksmith will give me a knife for the innkeeper,And the innkeeper will give me cheese for the cat,And the cat will give me back my tail.The farmer said, "If you will fetch me some soup."So the mouse went to the cook and said:Cook, give me soup! I'll give it to the farmer,And the farmer will give me hay for the goat,And the goat will give me a horn for the blacksmith,And the blacksmith will give me a knife for the innkeeper,And the innkeeper will give me cheese for the cat,And the cat will give me back my tail.The cook said, "If you will fetch me some slippers."So the mouse went to the shoemaker and said:Shoemaker, give me slippers! I'll give them to the cook,And the cook will give me soup for the farmer,And the farmer will give me hay for the goat,And the goat will give me a horn for the blacksmith,And the blacksmith will give me a knife for the innkeeper,And the innkeeper will give me cheese for the cat,And the cat will give me back my tail.The shoemaker said, "If you will fetch me some bristles."So the mouse went to the sow and said:Sow, give me bristles! I'll give them to the shoemaker,And the shoemaker will give me slippers for the cook,And the cook will give me soup for the farmer,And the farmer will give me hay for the goat,And the goat will give me a horn for the blacksmith,And the blacksmith will give me a knife for the innkeeper,And the innkeeper will give me cheese for the cat,And the cat will give me back my tail.The sow said, "If you will fetch me some bran."So the mouse went to the miller and said:Miller, give me bran! I'll give it to the sow,And the sow will give me bristles for the shoemaker,And the shoemaker will give me slippers for the cook,And the cook will give me soup for the farmer,And the farmer will give me hay for the goat,And the goat will give me a horn for the blacksmith,And the blacksmith will give me a knife for the innkeeper,And the innkeeper will give me cheese for the cat,And the cat will give me back my tail.The miller said, "If you will fetch me some water."So the mouse went to the brook in order to fetch water. But she fell inand drowned.