Exchanges and abductions are among the most common subjects of local legends.There are supernatural beings who would like to exchange small children. these are usually called the underground people . They will come and take back their changeling child if one beats it severely, for they live close by and belong to the hidden people.One should put some steel or a hymn book in a baby's cradle, especially before they are baptized. Otherwise the underground people can take the human child, replacing it with one of their own.Such a changeling will reveal its origin by its old man's face and its large head. If you have such a changeling lying in your cradle you must beat it with a birch switch three Thursday nights in succession, and that will bring forth the trolls. The underground mother will be moved by her child's screams and will bring the human child back to the cradle.One day a woman's baby boy was taken from the cradle and a changeling put there in his place. It had the face of an old man, drank like a wolf, and could never be satisfied.A neighbor woman advised that she should try to get him to talk, and if he did so, she should beat him with seven new brooms until no twig was left on them.The woman sat down to weave at a loom in which there was no yarn. The changling lay still for a long time and staring at it. Finally he sat up in the cradle and asked what the mother was doing."Oh, I'm weaving a shirt out of nothing," said the woman."Now I have lived in seven woods (the time from when a tree sprouts until it dies of old age), but I have never seen anyone weave something from nothing," said the changeling.Then the wife began to beat him with a broom until the twigs flew. She had worn two brooms naked and taken hold of the third. The changeling was screaming.Then the trolls rushed in and threw her boy to her, saying, "There you have your ugly boy, let's take our poor fellow back again."It is feared that the underground people also abduct adults. There are many reports that they lure away someone they are in love with and want to marry. If successful, the boy or girl will disappear, and they may be gone for a long time. Often the missing person does come back, but then he or she is usually quite strange or weird.Thus on a farm in Skjerstad there was a half grown boy named Lars, and he disappeared. But one day, when the people were doing field work, Lars was seen sitting near them with his back against a large rock. In his hand he was holding a flat stone slab and staring at it.They took the stone slab and threw it away. Then the boy stopped crying. They had destroyed the catechism he had from the underground.The priest was probably told where the boy had been, but he was too wise to tell what the boy had experienced with the underground people. The boy was now half witted, as it often happens to the someone who has been taken away.