There was a king who had three sons, named Pedro, Diego, and Juan. One daythe king ordered these three gentlemen to set out from the kingdom andseek their fortunes. The three brothers took different directions, butbefore they separated they agreed to meet in a certain place in theforest.After walking for many days, Don Juan met an old man on the road. Thisold man gave Don Juan bread, and told him to go to a palace which was amile away. "But as you enter the gate," said the old man, "you must dividethe bread which I have given you among the monkeys which are guarding thegate to the palace. otherwise you will not be able to enter."Don Juan took the bread. and when he reached the palace, he did as theold man had advised him. After entering the gate, he saw a big monkey.Frightened at the sight of the animal, Don Juan was about to run away,when the animal called to him, and said, "Don Juan, I know that yourpurpose in coming here was to find your fortune. and at this very momentmy daughter Chonguita will marry you."The archbishop of the monkeys was called, and Don Juan and Chonguitawere married without delay.A few days afterwards Don Juan asked permission from his wife to go tothe place where he and his brothers had agreed to meet. When Chonguita'smother heard that Don Juan was going away, she said to him, "If you aregoing away, take Chonguita with you."Although Don Juan was ashamed to go with Chonguita because she was amonkey, he was forced to take her, and they set out together. When DonJuan met his two brothers and their beautiful wives at the appointedplace, he could not say a word.Don Diego, noticing the gloomy appearance of his brother, said, "Whatis the matter with you? Where is your wife, Don Juan?"Don Juan sadly replied, "Here she is.""Where?" asked Don Pedro."Behind me," replied Don Juan.When Don Pedro and Don Diego saw the monkey, they were very muchsurprised. "Oh!" exclaimed Don Pedro. "What happened to you? Did you loseyour head?"Don Juan could say nothing to this question. At last, however, he brokeout, "Let us go home! Our father must be waiting for us."So saying, Don Juan turned around and began the journey. Don Pedro andDon Diego, together with their wives, followed Don Juan. Chonguita walkedby her husband's side.When the return of the three brothers was announced to the king, themonarch hastened to meet them on the stairs. Upon learning that one of hissons had married a monkey, the king fainted. but after he had recoveredhis senses, he said to himself, "This misfortune is God's will. I musttherefore bear it with patience." The king then assigned a house to eachcouple to live in.But the more the king thought of it, the greater appeared to be thedisgrace that his youngest son had brought on the family. So one day hecalled his three sons together, and said to them, "Tell your wives that Iwant each one of them to make me an embroidered coat. The one who fails todo this within three days will be put to death."Now, the king issued this order in the hope that Chonguita would be putto death, because he thought that she would not be able to make the coat.but his hope was disappointed. On the third day his daughters in lawpresented to him the coats that they had made, and the one embroidered byChonguita was the prettiest of all.Still anxious to get rid of the monkey wife, the king next ordered hisdaughters in law to embroider a cap for him in two days, under penalty ofdeath in case of failure. The caps were all done on time.At last, thinking of no other way by which he could accomplish his end,the king summoned his three daughters in law, and said, "The husband ofthe one who shall be able to draw the prettiest picture on the walls of mychamber within three days shall succeed me on the throne."At the end of the three days the pictures were finished. When the kingwent to inspect them, he found that Chonguita's was by far the prettiest,and so Don Juan was crowned king.A great feast was held in the palace in honor of the new king. In themidst of the festivities Don Juan became very angry with his wife forinsisting that he dance with her, and he hurled her against the wall. Atthis brutal action the hall suddenly became dark. but after a while itbecame bright again, and Chonguita had been transformed into a beautifulwoman.