A rich widower had an only daughter who was developing into a beautifuland charming woman. Her father's heart became inflamed with impure love,but she withstood his advances. He threatened to force himself on her, andshe responded with cunning. She promised to yield to his will if he wouldgive her a dress made of silver. When she received such a dress, she thendemanded one made from gold, and the third time, one made from jewels.After receiving that one as well, she said, "Now all I need is a crow skincoat," and then she made one last wish: a magic wand. These too shereceived.Now in another land there lived a prince who had heard of the girl'sbeauty. Taking the magic wand in her hand and the dresses over hershoulder, she wished herself to the vicinity of the prince's castle. Sheimmediately found herself in the castle garden. Then she wished forherself a chest in an oak tree in the garden, put her dresses in it, puton the crow skin coat and went to the castle kitchen where she presentedherself as a poor boy looking for work."I can use you," said the cook. "You can be the cinder blower."A few days later the prince came to the kitchen with some freshly killedgame. She saw him and liked him beyond measure.Soon afterward there was a wedding in a nearby castle, and the prince wentto it. Many people went there to look on at the dance. Cinder Blower askedthe cook for permission to observe. She ran to the oak tree, put on thesilver dress, and wished herself a carriage in which she rode to thecastle. The prince saw her and danced with her, but after a few dances shedisappeared. Seating herself in her carriage she said,Darkness behind me, Before me light,So none can follow me into the night.The next morning the prince was in a bad mood, for he had been awake allnight thinking about his beautiful dance partner. Cinder Blower was askedto polish his boots, and this she did, but she failed to polish one smallspot on one of the toes. The prince noticed this and angrily came into thekitchen and threw the boot at her head.The next evening there was another dance, and Cinder Blower again askedfor permission to go. This time she put on the golden dress, then rodethere in the carriage. The prince had been looking for her and was veryhappy when she arrived. While dancing with her he asked her where shelived."In Boot Throw" was her answer. She remained there one hour, and thendisappeared. In vain the prince asked where Boot Throw was. No one couldtell him.Again that night the prince could not close his eyes, and the next day hewas in an even worse mood than before.Cinder Blower was asked to brush his coat, but he did not like the way shedid it, and finally he threw the brush at her head.The third evening Cinder Blower again asked for permission to look on atthe dance, then put on her dress of precious stones. While dancing withher the prince asked her where she lived."In Brush Throw," was her answer."Whoever you are," he said, "take this ring from me."She let him put the ring onto her finger. Then she tried to sneak away,but the prince carefully watched her and followed close behind her. Sheclimbed out of her carriage near the oak tree. However, she did not havetime to take off her dress, but quickly put on the crow skin coat over it.The next morning when the cook was preparing the soup, Cinder Blowerdropped the ring into it. The prince found it and asked the cook who hadbeen in the kitchen."Only Cinder Blower and I," he answered.The prince summoned Cinder Blower and said, "My head itches. Look and seeif any vermin are there."Cinder Blower obeyed, but when she stood before him, he saw the diamonddress glistening forth from beneath the worn out crow skin coat. Then herecognized her. "Now you are mine," he said, and he made her his wife andthey lived happily together until they died.