Once there was a gentleman who married, for his second wife, the proudestand most haughty woman that was ever seen. She had, by a former husband,two daughters of her own, who were, indeed, exactly like her in allthings. He had likewise, by another wife, a young daughter, but ofunparalleled goodness and sweetness of temper, which she took from hermother, who was the best creature in the world.No sooner were the ceremonies of the wedding over but the stepmotherbegan to show herself in her true colors. She could not bear the goodqualities of this pretty girl, and the less because they made her owndaughters appear the more odious. She employed her in the meanest work ofthe house. She scoured the dishes, tables, etc., and cleaned madam'schamber, and those of misses, her daughters. She slept in a sorry garret,on a wretched straw bed, while her sisters slept in fine rooms, withfloors all inlaid, on beds of the very newest fashion, and where they hadlooking glasses so large that they could see themselves at their fulllength from head to foot.The poor girl bore it all patiently, and dared not tell her father, whowould have scolded her. for his wife governed him entirely. When she haddone her work, she used to go to the chimney corner, and sit down there inthe cinders and ashes, which caused her to be called Cinderwench. Only theyounger sister, who was not so rude and uncivil as the older one, calledher Cinderella. However, Cinderella, notwithstanding her coarse apparel,was a hundred times more beautiful than her sisters, although they werealways dressed very richly.It happened that the king's son gave a ball, and invited all persons offashion to it. Our young misses were also invited, for they cut a verygrand figure among those of quality. They were mightily delighted at thisinvitation, and wonderfully busy in selecting the gowns, petticoats, andhair dressing that would best become them. This was a new difficulty forCinderella. for it was she who ironed her sister's linen and pleated theirruffles. They talked all day long of nothing but how they should bedressed."For my part," said the eldest, "I will wear my red velvet suit withFrench trimming.""And I," said the youngest, "shall have my usual petticoat. but then,to make amends for that, I will put on my gold flowered cloak, and mydiamond stomacher, which is far from being the most ordinary one in theworld."They sent for the best hairdresser they could get to make up theirheadpieces and adjust their hairdos, and they had their red brushes andpatches from Mademoiselle de la Poche.They also consulted Cinderella in all these matters, for she hadexcellent ideas, and her advice was always good. Indeed, she even offeredher services to fix their hair, which they very willingly accepted. As shewas doing this, they said to her, "Cinderella, would you not like to go tothe ball?""Alas!" said she, "you only jeer me. it is not for such as I am to goto such a place.""You are quite right," they replied. "It would make the people laugh tosee a Cinderwench at a ball."Anyone but Cinderella would have fixed their hair awry, but she wasvery good, and dressed them perfectly well. They were so excited that theyhadn't eaten a thing for almost two days. Then they broke more than adozen laces trying to have themselves laced up tightly enough to give thema fine slender shape. They were continually in front of their lookingglass. At last the happy day came. They went to court, and Cinderellafollowed them with her eyes as long as she could. When she lost sight ofthem, she started to cry.Her godmother, who saw her all in tears, asked her what was the matter."I wish I could. I wish I could." She was not able to speak the rest,being interrupted by her tears and sobbing.This godmother of hers, who was a fairy, said to her, "You wish thatyou could go to the ball. is it not so?""Yes," cried Cinderella, with a great sigh."Well," said her godmother, "be but a good girl, and I will contrivethat you shall go." Then she took her into her chamber, and said to her,"Run into the garden, and bring me a pumpkin."Cinderella went immediately to gather the finest she could get, andbrought it to her godmother, not being able to imagine how this pumpkincould help her go to the ball. Her godmother scooped out all the inside ofit, leaving nothing but the rind. Having done this, she struck the pumpkinwith her wand, and it was instantly turned into a fine coach, gilded allover with gold.She then went to look into her mousetrap, where she found six mice, allalive, and ordered Cinderella to lift up a little the trapdoor. She gaveeach mouse, as it went out, a little tap with her wand, and the mouse wasthat moment turned into a fine horse, which altogether made a very fineset of six horses of a beautiful mouse colored dapple gray.Being at a loss for a coachman, Cinderella said, "I will go and see ifthere is not a rat in the rat trap that we can turn into a coachman.""You are right," replied her godmother, "Go and look."Cinderella brought the trap to her, and in it there were three hugerats. The fairy chose the one which had the largest beard, touched himwith her wand, and turned him into a fat, jolly coachman, who had thesmartest whiskers that eyes ever beheld.After that, she said to her, "Go again into the garden, and you willfind six lizards behind the watering pot. Bring them to me."She had no sooner done so but her godmother turned them into sixfootmen, who skipped up immediately behind the coach, with their liveriesall bedaubed with gold and silver, and clung as close behind each other asif they had done nothing else their whole lives. The fairy then said toCinderella, "Well, you see here an equipage fit to go to the ball with.are you not pleased with it?""Oh, yes," she cried. "but must I go in these nasty rags?"Her godmother then touched her with her wand, and, at the same instant,her clothes turned into cloth of gold and silver, all beset with jewels.This done, she gave her a pair of glass slippers, the prettiest in thewhole world. Being thus decked out, she got up into her coach. but hergodmother, above all things, commanded her not to stay past midnight,telling her, at the same time, that if she stayed one moment longer, thecoach would be a pumpkin again, her horses mice, her coachman a rat, herfootmen lizards, and that her clothes would become just as they werebefore.She promised her godmother to leave the ball before midnight. and thendrove away, scarcely able to contain herself for joy. The king's son, whowas told that a great princess, whom nobody knew, had arrived, ran out toreceive her. He gave her his hand as she alighted from the coach, and ledher into the hall, among all the company. There was immediately a profoundsilence. Everyone stopped dancing, and the violins ceased to play, soentranced was everyone with the singular beauties of the unknown newcomer.Nothing was then heard but a confused noise of, "How beautiful she is!How beautiful she is!"The king himself, old as he was, could not help watching her, andtelling the queen softly that it was a long time since he had seen sobeautiful and lovely a creature.All the ladies were busied in considering her clothes and headdress,hoping to have some made next day after the same pattern, provided theycould find such fine materials and as able hands to make them.The king's son led her to the most honorable seat, and afterwards tookher out to dance with him. She danced so very gracefully that they allmore and more admired her. A fine meal was served up, but the young princeate not a morsel, so intently was he busied in gazing on her.She went and sat down by her sisters, showing them a thousandcivilities, giving them part of the oranges and citrons which the princehad presented her with, which very much surprised them, for they did notknow her. While Cinderella was thus amusing her sisters, she heard theclock strike eleven and three quarters, whereupon she immediately made acourtesy to the company and hurried away as fast as she could.Arriving home, she ran to seek out her godmother, and, after havingthanked her, she said she could not but heartily wish she might go to theball the next day as well, because the king's son had invited her.As she was eagerly telling her godmother everything that had happenedat the ball, her two sisters knocked at the door, which Cinderella ran andopened."You stayed such a long time!" she cried, gaping, rubbing her eyes andstretching herself as if she had been sleeping. she had not, however, hadany manner of inclination to sleep while they were away from home."If you had been at the ball," said one of her sisters, "you would nothave been tired with it. The finest princess was there, the most beautifulthat mortal eyes have ever seen. She showed us a thousand civilities, andgave us oranges and citrons."Cinderella seemed very indifferent in the matter. Indeed, she askedthem the name of that princess. but they told her they did not know it,and that the king's son was very uneasy on her account and would give allthe world to know who she was. At this Cinderella, smiling, replied, "Shemust, then, be very beautiful indeed. how happy you have been! Could not Isee her? Ah, dear Charlotte, do lend me your yellow dress which you wearevery day.""Yes, to be sure!" cried Charlotte. "lend my clothes to such a dirtyCinderwench as you are! I should be such a fool."Cinderella, indeed, well expected such an answer, and was very glad ofthe refusal. for she would have been sadly put to it, if her sister hadlent her what she asked for jestingly.The next day the two sisters were at the ball, and so was Cinderella,but dressed even more magnificently than before. The king's son was alwaysby her, and never ceased his compliments and kind speeches to her. Allthis was so far from being tiresome to her, and, indeed, she quite forgotwhat her godmother had told her. She thought that it was no later thaneleven when she counted the clock striking twelve. She jumped up and fled,as nimble as a deer. The prince followed, but could not overtake her. Sheleft behind one of her glass slippers, which the prince picked up mostcarefully. She reached home, but quite out of breath, and in her nasty oldclothes, having nothing left of all her finery but one of the littleslippers, the mate to the one that she had dropped.The guards at the palace gate were asked if they had not seen aprincess go out. They replied that they had seen nobody leave but a younggirl, very shabbily dressed, and who had more the air of a poor countrywench than a gentlewoman.When the two sisters returned from the ball Cinderella asked them ifthey had been well entertained, and if the fine lady had been there.They told her, yes, but that she hurried away immediately when itstruck twelve, and with so much haste that she dropped one of her littleglass slippers, the prettiest in the world, which the king's son hadpicked up. that he had done nothing but look at her all the time at theball, and that most certainly he was very much in love with the beautifulperson who owned the glass slipper.What they said was very true. for a few days later, the king's son hadit proclaimed, by sound of trumpet, that he would marry her whose footthis slipper would just fit. They began to try it on the princesses, thenthe duchesses and all the court, but in vain. it was brought to the twosisters, who did all they possibly could to force their foot into theslipper, but they did not succeed.Cinderella, who saw all this, and knew that it was her slipper, said tothem, laughing, "Let me see if it will not fit me."Her sisters burst out laughing, and began to banter with her. Thegentleman who was sent to try the slipper looked earnestly at Cinderella,and, finding her very handsome, said that it was only just that she shouldtry as well, and that he had orders to let everyone try.He had Cinderella sit down, and, putting the slipper to her foot, hefound that it went on very easily, fitting her as if it had been made ofwax. Her two sisters were greatly astonished, but then even more so, whenCinderella pulled out of her pocket the other slipper, and put it on herother foot. Then in came her godmother and touched her wand toCinderella's clothes, making them richer and more magnificent than any ofthose she had worn before.And now her two sisters found her to be that fine, beautiful lady whomthey had seen at the ball. They threw themselves at her feet to beg pardonfor all the ill treatment they had made her undergo. Cinderella took themup, and, as she embraced them, said that she forgave them with all herheart, and wanted them always to love her.She was taken to the young prince, dressed as she was. He thought shewas more charming than before, and, a few days after, married her.Cinderella, who was no less good than beautiful, gave her two sisterslodgings in the palace, and that very same day matched them with two greatlords of the court.Moral: Beauty in a woman is a rare treasure that will alwaysbe admired. Graciousness, however, is priceless and of even greater value.This is what Cinderella's godmother gave to her when she taught her tobehave like a queen. Young women, in the winning of a heart, graciousnessis more important than a beautiful hairdo. It is a true gift of thefairies. Without it nothing is possible. with it, one can doanything.Another moral: Without doubt it is a great advantage to haveintelligence, courage, good breeding, and common sense. These, and similartalents come only from heaven, and it is good to have them. However, eventhese may fail to bring you success, without the blessing of a godfatheror a godmother.