There was once a merchant who lived close to the royal palace, and hadthree daughters. They were all pretty, but Maria, the youngest, was theprettiest of the three. One day the king sent for the merchant, who wasa widower, to give him directions about a journey he wished the goodman to take. The merchant would rather not have gone, as he did notlike leaving his daughters at home, but he could not refuse to obey theking's commands, and with a heavy heart he returned home to say farewellto them. Before he left, he took three pots of basil, and gave one toeach girl, saying, 'I am going a journey, but I leave these pots. Youmust let nobody into the house. When I come back, they will tell me whathas happened.' 'Nothing will have happened,' said the girls.The father went away, and the following day the king, accompanied by twofriends, paid a visit to the three girls, who were sitting at supper.When they saw who was there, Maria said, 'Let us go and get a bottle ofwine from the cellar. I will carry the key, my eldest sister can takethe light, while the other brings the bottle.' But the king replied,'Oh, do not trouble. we are not thirsty.' 'Very well, we will notgo,' answered the two elder girls. but Maria merely said, 'I shall go,anyhow.' She left the room, and went to the hall where she put out thelight, and putting down the key and the bottle, ran to the house of aneighbour, and knocked at the door. 'Who is there so late?' asked theold woman, thrusting her head out of the window.'Oh, let me in,' answered Maria. 'I have quarrelled with my eldestsister, and as I do not want to fight any more, I have come to beg youto allow me to sleep with you.'So the old woman opened the door and Maria slept in her house. The kingwas very angry at her for playing truant, but when she returned homethe next day, she found the plants of her sisters withered away, becausethey had disobeyed their father. Now the window in the room of theeldest overlooked the gardens of the king, and when she saw how fine andripe the medlars were on the trees, she longed to eat some, and beggedMaria to scramble down by a rope and pick her a few, and she would drawher up again. Maria, who was good natured, swung herself into the gardenby the rope, and got the medlars, and was just making the rope fastunder her arms so as to be hauled up, when her sister cried: 'Oh, thereare such delicious lemons a little farther on. You might bring me one ortwo.' Maria turned round to pluck them, and found herself face to facewith the gardener, who caught hold of her, exclaiming, 'What are youdoing here, you little thief?' 'Don't call me names,' she said, 'or youwill get the worst of it,' giving him as she spoke such a violent pushthat he fell panting into the lemon bushes. Then she seized the cord andclambered up to the window.The next day the second sister had a fancy for bananas and begged sohard, that, though Maria had declared she would never do such a thingagain, at last she consented, and went down the rope into the king'sgarden. This time she met the king, who said to her, 'Ah, here you areagain, cunning one! Now you shall pay for your misdeeds.'And he began to cross question her about what she had done. Maria deniednothing, and when she had finished, the king said again, 'Follow me tothe house, and there you shall pay the penalty.' As he spoke, he startedfor the house, looking back from time to time to make sure that Mariahad not run away. All of a sudden, when he glanced round, he found shehad vanished completely, without leaving a trace of where she had gone.Search was made all through the town, and there was not a hole or cornerwhich was not ransacked, but there was no sign of her anywhere. This soenraged the king that he became quite ill, and for many months his lifewas despaired of.Meanwhile the two elder sisters had married the two friends of theking, and were the mothers of little daughters. Now one day Maria stolesecretly to the house where her elder sister lived, and snatching up thechildren put them into a beautiful basket she had with her, coveredwith flowers inside and out, so that no one would ever guess it held twobabies. Then she dressed herself as a boy, and placing the basket on herhead, she walked slowly past the palace, crying as she went:'Who will carry these flowers to the king, who lies sick of love?'And the king in his bed heard what she said, and ordered one of hisattendants to go out and buy the basket. It was brought to his bedside,and as he raised the lid cries were heard, and peeping in he saw twolittle children. He was furious at this new trick which he felt had beenplayed on him by Maria, and was still looking at them, wondering how heshould pay her out, when he was told that the merchant, Maria's father,had finished the business on which he had been sent and returned home.Then the king remembered how Maria had refused to receive his visit, andhow she had stolen his fruit, and he determined to be revenged on her.So he sent a message by one of his pages that the merchant was to cometo see him the next day, and bring with him a coat made of stone, orelse he would be punished. Now the poor man had been very sad since hegot home the evening before, for though his daughters had promised thatnothing should happen while he was away, he had found the two elderones married without asking his leave. And now there was this freshmisfortune, for how was he to make a coat of stone? He wrung his handsand declared that the king would be the ruin of him, when Maria suddenlyentered. 'Do not grieve about the coat of stone, dear father. but takethis bit of chalk, and go to the palace and say you have come to measurethe king.' The old man did not see the use of this, but Maria had sooften helped him before that he had confidence in her, so he put thechalk in his pocket and went to the palace.'That is no good,' said the king, when the merchant had told him what hehad come for.'Well, I can't make the coat you want,' replied he.'Then if you would save your head, hand over to me your daughter Maria.'The merchant did not reply, but went sorrowfully back to his house,where Maria sat waiting for him.'Oh, my dear child, why was I born? The king says that, instead of thecoat, I must deliver you up to him.''Do not be unhappy, dear father, but get a doll made, exactly likeme, with a string attached to its head, which I can pull for "Yes" and"No."'So the old man went out at once to see about it.The king remained patiently in his palace, feeling sure that this timeMaria could not escape him. and he said to his pages, 'If a gentlemanshould come here with his daughter and ask to be allowed to speak withme, put the young lady in my room and see she does not leave it.'When the door was shut on Maria, who had concealed the doll under hercloak, she hid herself under the couch, keeping fast hold of the stringwhich was fastened to its head.'Senhora Maria, I hope you are well,' said the king when he entered theroom. The doll nodded. 'Now we will reckon up accounts,' continued he,and he began at the beginning, and ended up with the flower basket, andat each fresh misdeed Maria pulled the string, so that the doll's headnodded assent. 'Who so mocks at me merits death,' declared the king whenhe had ended, and drawing his sword, cut off the doll's head. It felltowards him, and as he felt the touch of a kiss, he exclaimed, 'Ah,Maria, Maria, so sweet in death, so hard to me in life! The man whocould kill you deserves to die!' And he was about to turn his sword onhimself, when the true Maria sprung out from under the bed, and flungherself into his arms. And the next day they were married and livedhappily for many years.