There was a cook whose name was Gretel. She wore shoes with red heels,and whenever she went out she would turn this way and that way, and wasvery cheerful, and thought, "You are a beautiful girl!" Then afterreturning home, because she was so happy, she drank a swallow of wine, andthe wine gave her an appetite, so she tasted the best of what she hadcooked, until she was quite full, and then said, "The cook has to know howthe food tastes."One day her master said to her, "Gretel, this evening a guest iscoming. Prepare two chickens for me, the best way that you can.""Yes indeed, my lord," answered Gretel. She killed the chickens,scalded them, plucked them, stuck them on the spit, and then, as eveningapproached, put them over the fire to roast. The chickens began to brown,and were nearly done, but the guest had not yet arrived. Gretel called toher master, "If the guest doesn't come, I'll have to take the chickensfrom the fire. And it will be a crying shame if they're not eaten soon,because they're at their juicy best right now."The master answered, "You're right. I'll run and fetch the guestmyself."As soon as the master had turned his back, Gretel set the spit and thechickens aside and thought, "Standing here by the fire has made me sweatyand thirsty. Who knows when they will be back. I'll just run down into thecellar and take a swallow. So she ran down, lifted a jug to her lips, "Godbless you, Gretel!" and took a healthy drink. "Wine belongs together," shesaid to herself. It's not good to keep it apart." Then she went backupstairs and placed the chickens over the fire again, basted them withbutter, and cheerfully turned the spit. Because the roasting chickensmelled so good, she thought, "It could be lacking something. I'd bettertaste it!" She tested them with her fingers, and said, "My, these chickensare good! It's a sin and a shame that they won't be eaten at once!"She ran to the window, to see if her master and his guest werearriving, but she saw no one. Returning to the chickens, she said, "Thatone wing is burning. I'd better just eat it." So she cut it off and ateit, and it tasted so good, and when she had finished it, she thought, "I'dbetter eat the other one too, or the master will see that something ismissing." When both wings had been eaten, she once again looked for hermaster, but could not see him. Then it occurred to her, "who knows,perhaps they've gone somewhere else and aren't coming here at all." Thenshe said, "Well, Gretel, be of good cheer! The one has already been cutinto. Have another drink and eat the rest of it. When it's gone, you canrest! Why should this gift of God go to waste?"So she ran to the cellar once again, downed a noble drink, and finishedoff the first chicken with pleasure. When it was gone, and still themaster had not yet returned, she looked at the other chicken and said,"Where the one is, the other should follow. The two belong together. Whatis right for the one, can't be wrong for the other. I believe that if Ihave another drink, it will do me no harm." So she took another drink, andsent the second chicken running after the first one.Just as she was making the most of it, her master returned, callingout, "Gretel, hurry up, the guest is right behind me.""Yes, master, I'm getting it ready," answered Gretel. The master sawthat the table was set, and he picked up the large knife that he wanted tocarve the chickens with, and stood in the hallway sharpening it.The guest arrived and knocked politely on the door. Gretel ran to seewho it was, and when she saw that it was the guest, she held a fingerbefore her mouth, and said, "Be quiet! Hurry and get away from here. If mymaster catches you, you'll be sorry. Yes, he invited you for an eveningmeal, but all he really wants is to cut off both of your ears. Listen,he's sharpening his knife for it right now."The guest heard the whetting and ran down the steps as fast as hecould. Then Gretel, who was not a bit lazy, ran to her master, crying,"Just what kind of a guest did you invite?""What do you mean, Gretel?""Why," she said, "he took both of the chickens off the platter, just asI was about to carry them out, and then ran away with them.""Now that's a fine tune!" said the master, feeling sorry about the lossof the good chickens. "At the least, he could have left one of them, so Iwould have something to eat." He called out to him to stop, but the guestpretended not to hear. Therefore he ran after him, the knife still in hishand, shouting, "Just one! Just one!" But the guest thought that he wantedhim to give up just one of his ears, so he ran as though there were a fireburning beneath him, in order to get home with both ears.