There was a man who had a daughter who was called Clever Elsie.When she came of age her father said, "We will get her married.""Yes," said the mother, "if only someone would come by who would have her."At length a man named Hans came from afar and wooed her, under the condition that Clever Elsie should prove to be very intelligent."Oh," said her father, "she has brains in her head."Her mother added, "She even can see the wind running up the street, and hear the flies coughing.""Well," said Hans, "if she is not really intelligent, I won't have her."Later, after they had eaten but were still sitting at the table, the mother said, "Elsie, go down into the cellar and fetch some beer."Clever Elsie took a pitcher and went down into the cellar, loudly clapping the lid to amuse herself. Once in the cellar she set a stool before the barrel so that she that she would not have to bend down and possibly hurt her back or injure herself in some other way. She placed the pitcher before her, and opened the tap. While the beer was running she passed the time by looking up at the wall. She saw a pickax hanging directly above her. The masons accidentally had left it there.Clever Elsie began to cry and said, "If I marry Hans, and we have a child, and he grows big, and we send him into the cellar to draw beer here, then the pickax will fall on his head and kill him."She sat there weeping and crying out with all her strength about the coming misfortune.The people upstairs were waiting for their drink, but Clever Elsie did not come up. Finally the wife said to the maid servant, "Go down into the cellar and see what is keeping Elsie."The maid servant went and found her sitting in front of the barrel, screaming loudly."Elsie, why are you crying?" asked the servant."Ah," she answered, "why should I not be crying? If I marry Hans, and we have a child, and he grows big, and has to draw beer here, perhaps the pickax will fall on his head, and kill him."Then the maid servant said, "What a clever Elsie we have!" She sat down next to Elsie, and she too began to cry about the misfortune.After a while, as the maid servant had not come back, and those upstairs were thirsty for the beer, the husband said to the farmhand, "Go down into the cellar and see what is keeping Elsie and the maid servant."The farmhand went down, and there sat Clever Elsie and the girl both crying together.He asked, "Why are you two crying?""Ah," said Elsie, "why should I not be crying? If I marry Hans, and we have a child, and he grows big, and has to draw beer here, the pickax will fall on his head, and kill him."With that the farmhand said, "What a clever Elsie we have!" Then he too sat down and began to wail loudly.Upstairs they waited for the farmhand, but as he still did not return, the husband said to the wife, "Go down into the cellar and see what is keeping Elsie!"The woman went down and found all three sobbing piteously. She asked the cause of their sorrow, and Elsie told her too that her future child would be killed by the pickax, when he grew big and had to draw beer, and the pickax would fall down.Then said the mother likewise, "What a clever Elsie we have!" then she sat down and cried with them.The man upstairs waited a short time, but as his wife did not come back and his thirst grew ever greater, he said, "I myself must go into the cellar and see what is keeping Elsie."But when he got into the cellar, and they were all sitting together crying, and he heard the reason, and that the cause was the child that Elsie might perhaps bring into the world some day. This child might be killed by the pickax if he should happen to be sitting beneath it, drawing beer at the very time when it fell down.Hearing this the father cried out, "Oh, what a clever Elsie!" Then he sat down with the others and cried along with them.The bridegroom stayed upstairs alone for a long time. When no one came back, he thought, "They must be waiting for me. I too must go down and see what they are doing."In the cellar he saw all five of them sitting together, piteously weeping and crying, each one outdoing the others."What misfortune has happened here?" he asked."Oh, dear Hans," said Elsie, "if we get married and have a child, and he is big, and we perhaps send him here to draw something to drink, then the pickax that has been left up there might fall down and split his head open. Is that not reason enough for us to be crying?""Indeed," said Hans, "that is intelligence enough for my household. Because you are such a clever Elsie, I shall marry you."With that he took her by the hand, led her upstairs with him, and married her.After they had been married for some time, Hans said, "Wife, I am going out to work and earn some money for us. You go to the field and harvest the grain so that we can have some bread.""Yes, my dear Hans, I shall do that."After Hans had left, she cooked herself some good porridge and took it to the field with her.Arriving at the field she said to herself, "What shall I do? Shall I harvest first, or shall I eat first? Oh, I will eat first."After eating all of her porridge she was no longer hungry, and once again she said, "What shall I do? Shall I harvest first, or shall I sleep first? Oh, I will sleep first."Then she lay down in the grain field and fell asleep.By now Hans had been at home for a long time, but Elsie did not come home.Finally he said, "What a clever Elsie I have. she is so industrious that she does not even come home to eat."Evening came and Elsie had not yet come home, so Hans went out to see what she had harvested. Nothing had been harvested, and she was lying there asleep in the grain field.Then Hans hurried back home and brought a fowler's net with little bells and hung it around her, but she did not wake up. Then he ran home, locked the front door, and sat down in his chair and worked. When it was quite dark Clever Elsie woke up. She stood up, and there was a jingling all around her. The bells rang with every step that she took. This frightened her, and was not sure whether she really was Clever Elsie or not.She, said "Am I me, or am I not me?"Not knowing the answer, she stood there for a time in doubt. Finally she thought, "I'll just go home and ask if I am me or if I am not me. They'll be sure to know."She ran to the door of her own house, but it was locked.She knocked at the window and cried, "Hans, is Elsie in there?""Yes," answered Hans, "she is here."Hearing this she was frightened, and said, "Dear God! Then I am not me!"She went to another house. but when the people heard the jingling bells they would not open the door, and no one would let her inside. Then she ran out of the village, and no one has seen her since.