THIS THIRTY SIXTH.THE STORY OF NOOR ED DEEN AND ENEES EL JELEES.There was, in El Barah, a certain King who loved the poor and indigent,and regarded his subjects with benevolence. he bestowed of his wealthupon him who believed in Moammad (God bless and save him!) and was suchas one of the poets who have written of him hath thus described: He used his lances as pens. and the hearts of his enemies, as paper.their blood being his ink:And hence, I imagine, our forefathers applied to the lance the termKhaeeyeh.The name of this King was Moammad the son of Suleyman Ez Zeynee. and hehad two Wezeers. one of whom was named El Mo'een the son ofSawee. and the other, El Fal the son of Khaan. El Fal theson of Khaan was the most generous of the people of his age, upright inconduct, so that all hearts agreed in loving him, and the wise compliedwith his counsel, and all the people supplicated for him length of life.for he was a person of auspicious aspect, a preventer of eviland mischief: but the Wezeer El Mo'een the son of Sawee hated others,and loved not good. he was a man of inauspicious aspect. and in the samedegree that the people loved Fal ed Deen the son of Khaan, so did theyabhor El Mo'een the son of Sawee, in accordance with the decree of theAlmighty.Now the King Moammad the son of Suleyman Ez Zeynee was sitting one dayupon his throne, surrounded by the officers of his court, and he calledto his Wezeer El Fal the son of Khaan, and said to him, I desire afemale slave unsurpassed in beauty by any in her age, of perfectloveliness, and exquisite symmetry, and endowed with all praiseworthyqualities. Such as this, replied his courtiers, is not to be found forless than ten thousand pieces of gold. And the Sulan thereupon calledout to the treasurer, saying, Carry ten thousand pieces of gold to thehouse of El Fal the son of Khaan. So the treasurer did as hecommanded, and the Wezeer departed, after the Sulan had ordered him torepair every day to the market, and to commission the brokers to procurewhat he had described, and had commanded also that no female slave of agreater price than one thousand pieces of gold should be sold withouthaving been shewn to the Wezeer.The brokers, therefore, sold no female slave without shewing her to him,and he complied with the King's command, and thus he continued to do fora considerable time, no slave pleasing him: but on a certain day, one ofthe brokers came to the mansion of the Wezeer El Fal, and found that hehad mounted to repair to the palace of the King. and he laid hold uponhis stirrup, and repeated these two verses: O thou who hast reanimated what was rotten in the state! Thou artthe Wezeer ever aided by Heaven.Thou hast revived the noble qualities that were extinct among men.May thy conduct never cease to be approved by God!He then said, O my master, the female slave for the procuring of whomthe noble mandate was issued hath arrived. The Wezeer replied, Bring herhither to me. So the man returned, and, after a short absence, cameagain, accompanied by a damsel of elegant stature, high bosomed, withblack eyelashes, and smooth cheek, and slender waist, and large hips,clad in the handsomest apparel. the moisture of her lips was sweeterthan sirup. her figure put to shame the branches of the Oriental willow.and her speech was more soft than the zephyr passing over the flowers ofthe garden. as one of her describers hath thus expressed: Her skin is like silk, and her speech is soft, neither redundantnor deficient:Her eyes, God said to them, Be, and they were, affecting men'shearts with the potency of wine.May my love for her grow more warm each night, and cease notuntil the day of judgment!The locks on her brow are dark as night, while her forehead shineslike the gleam of morning.When the Wezeer beheld her, she pleased him extremely, and he lookedtowards the broker, and said to him, What is the price of this damsel?The broker answered, The price bidden for her hath amounted to tenthousand pieces of gold, and her owner hath sworn that this sum doth notequal the cost of the chickens which she hath eaten, nor the cost of thedresses which she hath bestowed upon her teachers. for she hath learntwriting and grammar and lexicology, and the interpretation of theur an, and the fundamentals of law and religion, and medicine, and thecomputation of the calendar, and the art of playing upon musicalinstruments. The Wezeer then said, Bring to me her master: and thebroker immediately brought him. and lo, he was a foreigner, who hadlived so long that time had reduced him to bones and skin, as the poethath said, How hath time made me to tremble! For time is powerful and severe.I used to walk without being weary. but now I am weary and do not walk.And the Wezeer said to him, Art thou content to receive for this damselten thousand pieces of gold from the Sulan Moammad the son of SuleymanEz Zeynee? The foreigner answered, As she is for the Sulan, it isincumbent on me to give her as a present to him, withoutprice. So the Wezeer, upon this, ordered that the moneyshould be brought, and then weighed the pieces of gold for theforeigner. after which, the slave broker addressed the Wezeer, and said,With the permission of our lord the Wezeer, I will speak. Impart whatthou hast to say, replied the Wezeer. It is my opinion, then, said thebroker, that thou shouldst not take up this damsel to the Sulanto day. for she hath just arrived from her journey, and the change ofair hath affected her, and the journey hath fatigued her. but rather lether remain with thee in thy palace ten days, that she may take rest, andher beauty will improve: then cause her to be taken into the bath, andattire her in clothes of the handsomest description, and go up with herto the Sulan: so shalt thou experience more abundant good fortune. Andthe Wezeer considered the advice of the slave broker, and approved it.He therefore took her into his palace, and gave her a private apartmentto herself, allotting her every day what she required of food and drinkand other supplies, and she continued a while in this state ofenjoyment.Now the Wezeer El Fal had a son like the shining full moon, withbrilliant countenance, and red cheek, marked with a mole like a globuleof ambergris, and with grey down. The youth knew not of this damsel, andhis father had charged her, saying, Know that I have purchased thee forthe King Moammad the son of Suleyman Ez Zeynee, and that I have a sonwho hath not left a girl in the quarter without making love to her:therefore keep thyself concealed from him, and beware of shewing him thyface, or suffering him to hear thy voice. The damsel replied, I hear andobey: and he left her and departed. And it happened, as fate hadordained, that she went one day into the bath which was in the house,and, after certain of the female slaves had bathed her, she attiredherself in rich apparel, and her beauty and loveliness increased inconsequence. She then went in to the Wezeer's wife, and kissed her hand,and she said to her, May it be favourable, O Enees el Jelees!How didst thou find this bath? O my mistress, she answered, I wantednothing but thy presence there. And upon this, the mistress of the housesaid to the female slaves, Arise, and let us go into the bath. And theycomplied with her command, and went, accompanied by their mistress, whofirst charged two young slave girls to keep the door of the privateapartment in which was Enees el Jelees, saying to them, Suffer no one togo in to the damsel: and they replied, We hear and obey. But whileEnees el Jelees was sitting in her chamber, lo, the Wezeer's son, whosename was 'Alee Noor ed Deen, came in, and asked after his mother and thefamily. The two girls answered, They are gone into the bath. Now thedamsel Enees el Jelees heard the speech of 'Alee Noor ed Deen as she satin her chamber, and she said within herself, I wonder what this youth islike, of whom the Wezeer hath told me that he hath not left a girl inthe quarter without making love to her: by Allah, I have a desire to seehim. She then rose upon her feet, fresh as she was from the bath, and,approaching the door of the chamber, looked at 'Alee Noor ed Deen, andbeheld him to be a youth like the full moon. The sight of him occasionedher a thousand sighs. and a look from the youth, at her, affected himalso in the same manner. Each was caught in the snare of the other'slove, and the youth approached the two slave girls, and cried out atthem. whereupon they fled from before him, and stopped at a distance,looking to see what he would do. He then advanced to the door of thechamber, and, opening it, went in, and said to the damsel, Art thou shewhom my father hath purchased for me? She answered, Yes. And upon this,the youth, who was in a state of intoxication, went up to her, andembraced her, while she, in like manner, threw her arms around his neck,and kissed him. But the two slave girls, having seen their young masterenter the chamber of the damsel Enees el Jelees, cried out. The youth,therefore, soon ran forth, and fled for safety, fearing the consequenceof his intrusion. and when the mistress of the house heard the cry ofthe two slave girls, she came out dripping from the bath, saying, Whatis the cause of this cry in the house? And when she drew near to thetwo slave girls whom she had placed at the door of the private chamber,she said to them, Wo to you! What is the matter? They answered, as soonas they beheld her, Our master 'Alee Noor ed Deen came to us and beatus, and we fled from him, and he went into the chamber ofEnees el Jelees, and when we cried out to thee he fled. The mistress ofthe house then went to Enees el Jelees, and said to her, What is thenews? O my mistress, she answered, as I was sitting here, a youth ofhandsome person came in to me, and said to me, Art thou she whom myfather hath purchased for me? And I answered, Yes. By Allah, O mymistress, I believed that what he said was true. and he came up to meand embraced me, and kissed me three times, and he left me overcome byhis love.Upon this, the mistress of the house wept, and slapped her face, and herfemale slaves did the like, fearing for 'Alee Noor ed Deen, lest hisfather should slay him. and while they were in this state, lo, theWezeer came in, and inquired what had happened. His wife said to him,Swear that thou wilt listen to that which I shall say. He replied, Well.So she told him what his son had done. and he mourned, and rent hisclothes, and slapped his face, and plucked his beard. His wife then saidto him, Kill not thyself. I will give thee, of my own property, tenthousand pieces of gold, her price. But upon this, he raised his headtowards her, and said to her, Wo to thee! I want not her price. but Ifear the loss of my life and my property. Wherefore, O my master? sheasked. Knowest thou not, said he, that we have this enemy El Mo'een theson of Sawee? When he heareth of this event, he will repair to theSulan, and say to him, Thy Wezeer whom thou imaginest to love thee hathreceived from thee ten thousand pieces of gold, and purchased therewitha female slave such as no one hath seen equalled, and when she pleasedhim, he said to his son, Take her. for thou art more worthy of her thanthe Sulan: and he took her. and the damsel is now with him. Then theKing will say, Thou liest. And he will say to the King, With thypermission, I will break in upon him suddenly, and bring her to thee.And he will give him permission to do so: he will therefore make asudden attack upon the house, and take the damsel, and conduct her intothe presence of the Sulan, and he will question her, and she will notbe able to deny: he will then say, O my lord, I give thee good counsel,but I am not in favour with thee: and the Sulan will make an exampleof me, and all the people will make me a gazing stock, and my life willbe lost. His wife, however, replied, Acquaint no one. for this thinghath happened privily: commit, therefore, thine affair unto God, in thisextremity. And upon this, the heart of the Wezeer was quieted, and hismind was relieved.Such was the case of the Wezeer. Now as to Noor ed Deen, he feared theresult of his conduct, and so passed each day in the gardens, notreturning to his mother until towards the close of the night: he thenslept in her apartment, and rose before morning without being seen byany one else. Thus he continued to do so for the space of a month, notseeing the face of his father. and at length his mother said to hisfather, O my master, wilt thou lose the damsel and lose the child? Forif it long continue thus with the youth, he will flee his country. Andwhat is to be done? said he. She answered, Sit up this night, and whenhe cometh, lay hold upon him, and be reconciled to him, and give him thedamsel. for she loveth him, and he loveth her. and I will give thee herprice. So the Wezeer sat up the whole night, and when his son came, helaid hold upon him, and would have cut his throat. but hismother came to his succour, and said to her husband, What dost thoudesire to do unto him? He answered her, I desire to slay him. The youththen said to his father, Am I of so small account in thy estimation? Andupon this, the eyes of his father filled with tears, and he said to him,O my son, is the loss of my property and my life of small account withthee? Listen, O my father, rejoined the youth: and he implored hisforgiveness. So the Wezeer rose from the breast of his son, and wasmoved with compassion for him. and the youth rose, and kissed hisfather's hand. and the Wezeer said, O my son, if I knew that thouwouldst act equitably to Enees el Jelees, I would give her to thee. Omy father, replied the youth, wherefore should I not act equitablytowards her? And his father said, I charge thee, O my son, that thoutake not a wife to share her place, and that thou do her no injury, norsell her. He replied, O my father, I swear to thee that I will neithertake a wife to share her place, nor sell her: and he promised him byoaths to act as he had said, and took up his abode with the damsel, andremained with her a year. and God (whose name be exalted!) caused theKing to forget the affair of the female slave. but the matter becameknown to El Mo'een the son of Sawee. yet he could not speak of it, onaccount of the high estimation in which the other Wezeer was held by theSulan.After this year had expired, the Wezeer Fal ed Deen the son of Khaanentered the oath, and came out in a state of excessive perspiration, inconsequence of which the external air smote him, so that he becameconfined to his bed, and long remained sleepless. and his maladycontinued unremittingly. so he called, thereupon, his son 'AleeNoor ed Deen, and when he came before him, said to him, O my son, verilythe means of life are apportioned, and its period is decreed, and everysoul must drink the cup of death. I have nothing with which to chargethee but the fear of God, and forethought with regard to the results ofthine actions, and that thou conduct thyself kindly to the damselEnees el Jelees. O my father, said the youth, who is like unto thee?Thou hast been celebrated for virtuous actions, and the praying of thepreachers for thee on the pulpits. O my son, rejoined the Wezeer, Ihope for the approbation of God, whose name be exalted! And then hepronounced the two professions of the faith, and uttered asigh, and was recorded among the company of the blest. And upon this,the palace was filled with shrieking, and the news reached the ears ofthe Sulan, and the people of the city heard of the death of El Fal theson of Khaan, and even the boys in the schools wept forhim. His son 'Alee Noor ed Deen arose, and prepared hisfuneral, and the Emeers and Wezeers and other officers of the stateattended it, and among them was the Wezeer El Mo'een the Son of Sawee.and as the procession passed out from the mansion, one of the mournersrecited these verses: I said to the man who was appointed to wash him, Would that he hadyielded obedience to my counsel, Put away from him the water, and wash him with the tears of honour,shed in lamentation for him:And remove these fragrant substances collected for his corpse,and perfume him rather with the odours of his praise:And order the noble angels to carry him, in honour. Dost thounot behold them attending him?Cause not men's necks to be strained by bearing him: enoughare they laden already by his benefits.'Alee Noor ed Deen for a long time remained in a state of violent grieffor the loss of his father. but as he was sitting one day in hisfather's house, a person knocked at the door, and he rose up and openedit, and lo, there was a man who was one of his father's intimatecompanions, and he kissed the hand of Noor ed Deen, and said to him, Omy master, he who hath left a son like thee hath not died. This is thedestination of the lord of the first and the last amongmankind. O my master, cheer up thy heart, and give overmourning. And upon this, 'Alee Noor ed Deen arose, and went to theguest chamber, and removed thither all that he required, and hiscompanions came together to him, and he took again his slave. Ten of thesons of the merchants became his associates, and he gave entertainmentafter entertainment, and began to be lavish with presents. His steward,therefore, came in to him, and said to him, O my master Noor ed Deen,hast thou not heard the saying, He who expendeth and doth not calculateis reduced to poverty? This profuse expenditure, and these magnificentpresents, will annihilate the property. But when 'Alee Noor ed Deenheard these words of his steward, he looked at him, and replied, Of allthat thou hast said to me, I will not attend to one word. How excellentis the saying of the poet: If I be possessed of wealth and be not liberal, may my hand neverbe extended, nor my foot raised!Shew me the avaricious who hath attained glory by his avarice,and the munificent who hath died through his munificence.Know, O Steward, he continued, that if there remain in thy hands whatwill suffice for my dinner, thou shalt not burden me with anxietyrespecting my supper. So the steward left him, and went his way. and'Alee Noor ed Deen resumed his habits of extravagant generosity:whenever any one of his companions said, Verily this thing isbeautiful! he would reply, It is a present to thee: and if any said, Omy master, verily such a house is delightful! he would reply, It is apresent to thee.He ceased not to give entertainments to his companions from thecommencement of day, one after another, until he had passed in thismanner a whole year. after which, as he was sitting with them, he heardthe slave girl recite these two verses: Thou thoughtest well of the days when they went well with thee,and fearedst not the evil that destiny was bringing.Thy nights were peaceful, and thou wast deceived by them:in the midst of their brightness there cometh gloom.And immediately after, a person knocked at the door: so Noor ed Deenrose, and one of his companions followed him without his knowledge. andwhen he opened the door, he beheld his steward, and said to him, What isthe news? O my master, answered the steward, that which I feared on thyaccount hath happened to thee. How is that? asked Noor ed Deen. Thesteward answered, Know that there remaineth not of thy property in myhands, anything equivalent to a piece of silver, or less than a piece ofsilver. and these are the accounts of thy expenses, and of thy originalproperty. When 'Alee Noor ed Deen heard these words, he hung down hishead towards the ground, and exclaimed, There is no strength nor powerbut in God! And the man who had followed him secretly to pry into hiscase, as soon as he heard what the steward told him, returned to hiscompanions, and said to them, See what ye will do. for 'AleeNoor ed Deen hath become a bankrupt. So when Noor ed Deen returned tothem, grief appeared to them in his countenance, and immediately one ofthem rose, and, looking towards him, said to him, O my master, I desirethat thou wouldst permit me to depart. Why thus depart to day? saidNoor ed Deen. His guest answered, My wife is to give birth to a childthis night, and it is impossible for me to be absent from her: I desire,therefore, to go and see her. And he gave him leave. Then another rose,and said to him, O my master Noor ed Deen, I desire to day to visit mybrother. for he celebrateth the circumcision of his son. Thus each ofthem asked leave of him deceitfully, and went his way, until all haddeparted.So 'Alee Noor ed Deen remained alone. and he called his slave girl, andsaid to her, O Enees el Jelees, seest thou not what hath befallen me?And he related to her what the steward had told him. She replied, O mymaster, for some nights past, I have been anxious to speak to thee ofthis affair. but I heard thee reciting these two verses: When fortune is liberal to thee, be thou liberal to all othersbefore she escape from thee:For liberality will not annihilate thy wealth when she is favourable.nor avarice preserve it when she deserteth thee.And when I heard thee repeat these words, I was silent, and would notmake any remark to thee. O Enees el Jelees, he rejoined, thou knowestthat I have not expended my wealth but on my companions. and I do notthink that they will abandon me without relief. By Allah, said she,they will be of no use to thee. But he said, I will immediately ariseand go to them, and knock at their doors: perhaps I shall obtain fromthem something which I will employ as a capital wherewith to trade, andI will cease from diversion and sport. So he arose instantly, andproceeded without stopping until he arrived at the by street in whichhis ten companions resided. for they all lived in that same street: andhe advanced to the first door, and knocked. and there came forth to hima slave girl, who said to him, Who art thou? He answered, Say to thymaster, 'Alee Noor ed Deen is standing at the door, and saith to thee,Thy slave kisseth thy hands, looking for a favour from thee. And thegirl entered, and acquainted her master. but he called out to her,saying, Return, and tell him, He is not here. The girl, therefore,returned to Noor ed Deen, and said to him, My master, Sir, is not here.And he went on, saying within myself, If this is a knave, and hathdenied himself, another is not. He then advanced to the next door, andsaid as he had before. and the second also denied himself. andNoor ed Deen exclaimed, They are gone, who, if thou stoodest at their door, would bestowupon thee the bounty thou desirest.By Allah, he added, I must try all of them: perchance one of them maystand me in the place of all the others. And he went round to all theten. but found not that one of them would open the door, or shewhimself, or even order him a cake of bread. and he recited the followingverses: A man in prosperity resembleth a tree, around which people flockas long as it hath fruit.But as soon as it hath dropped all that it bore, they dispersefrom beneath it, and seek another.Perdition to all the people of this age! for I find not one manof integrity among ten.He then returned to his slave: his anxiety had increased, and she saidto him, O my master, said I not unto thee that they would not profitthee? By Allah, he replied, not one of them shewed me his face. O mymaster, rejoined she, sell of the moveables of the house a little at atime, and expend the produce. And he did so until he had sold all thatwas in the house, and there remained nothing in his possession. andupon this he looked towards Enees el Jelees, and said to her, What shallwe do now? It is my advice, O my master, she answered, that thou ariseimmediately, and take me to the market, and sell me. for thou knowestthat thy father purchased me for ten thousand pieces of gold, andperhaps God may open to thee a way to obtain a part of this price. andif God have decreed our reunion, we shall meet again. But he replied, OEnees el Jelees, it is not easy for me to endure thy separation for onehour. Nor is the like easy to me, said she: but necessity is imperious.And upon this, he took Enees el Jelees, his tears flowing down hischeeks, and went and delivered her to the broker, saying to him, Knowthe value of that which thou art to cry for sale. O my masterNoor ed Deen, replied the broker, noble qualities are held inremembrance. Is she not Enees el Jelees, whom thy father purchased of mefor ten thousand pieces of gold? He answered, Yes. And the brokerthereupon went to the merchants. but he found that they had not all yetassembled. so he waited until the rest had come, and the market wasfilled with all varieties of female slaves, Turkish and Greek andCircassian and Georgian and Abyssinian. and when he beheld its crowdedstate, he arose and exclaimed, O merchants! O possessors of wealth!everything that is round is not a nut. nor is everything long, a banana.nor is everything that is red, meat. nor is everything white, fat. noris everything that is ruddy, wine. nor is everything tawny, a date! Omerchants! this precious pearl, whose value no money can equal, withwhat sum will ye open the bidding for her? And one of the merchantsanswered, With four thousand and five hundred pieces ofgold.But, lo, the Wezeer El Mo'een the son of Sawee was in the market, and,seeing 'Alee Noor ed Deen standing there, he said within himself, Whatdoth he want here, having nothing left wherewith to purchase femaleslaves? Then casting his eyes around, and hearing the broker as he stoodcrying in the market with the merchants around him, he said withinhimself, I do not imagine anything else than that he hath become abankrupt, and come forth with the slave girl to sell her. and if this bethe case, how pleasant to my heart! He then called the crier, whoapproached him, and kissed the ground before him. and theWezeer said to him, I desire this female slave whom thou art crying forsale. The broker, therefore, being unable to oppose his wish, broughtthe slave and placed her before him. and when he beheld her, andconsidered her charms, her elegant figure and her soft speech, he wasdelighted with her, and said to the broker, To what has the bidding forher amounted? The broker answered, Four thousand and five hundred piecesof gold. And as soon as the merchants heard this, not one of them couldbid another piece of silver or of gold. but all of them drew back,knowing the tyrannical conduct of that Wezeer. El Mo'een the son ofSawee then looked towards the broker, and said to him, Why standest thoustill? Take away the slave girl for me at the price of four thousand andfive hundred pieces of gold, and thou wilt have five hundred forthyself. So the broker went to 'Alee Noor ed Deen, and said to him, Omy master, the slave girl is lost to thee without price. How so? saidNoor ed Deen. The broker answered, We opened the bidding for her at fourthousand and five hundred pieces of gold. but this tyrant El Mo'een theson of Sawee came into the market, and when he beheld the damsel shepleased him, and he said to me, Ask her owner if he will agree for fourthousand pieces of gold, and five hundred for thee: and I doubt not buthe knoweth that the slave belongeth to thee. and if he give thee herprice immediately, it will be through the goodness of God. but I know,from his injustice, that he will write thee an order upon some of hisagents for the money, and then send to them and desire them to give theenothing. and every time that thou shalt go to demand it of them, theywill say to thee, To morrow we will pay thee: and they will not ceaseto promise thee, and to defer from day to day, notwithstanding thypride. and when they are overcome by thy importunity they will say, Giveus the written order: and as soon as they have received the paper fromthee they will tear it in pieces: so thou wilt lose the price of theslave.When Noor ed Deen, therefore, heard these words of the broker, he saidto him, What is to be done? The broker answered, I will give thee apiece of advice, and if thou receive it from me, thou wilt have betterfortune. What is it? asked Noor ed Deen. That thou come to meimmediately, answered the broker, while I am standing in the midst ofthe market, and take the slave girl from me, and give her a blow withthy hand, and say to her, Wo to thee! I have expiated my oath that Iswore, and brought thee to the market, because I swore to thee that thoushouldst be exposed in the market, and that the broker should cry theefor sale. If thou do this, perhaps the trick will deceive him and thepeople, and they will believe that thou tookest her not to the marketbut to expiate the oath. This, replied Noor ed Deen, is the rightcounsel. So the broker returned into the midst of the market, and,taking hold of the hand of the slave girl, made a sign to the WezeerEl Mo'een the son of Sawee, saying, O my lord, this is her owner whohath just come. Then 'Alee Noor ed Deen advanced to the broker, and torethe damsel from him, and struck her with his hand, saying to her, Wo tothee! I have brought thee to the market for the sake of expiating myoath. Go home, and disobey me not again. I want not thy price, that Ishould sell thee. and if I sold the furniture of the house andeverything else of the kind over and over again, their produce would notamount to thy price. But when El Mo'een the son of Sawee beheldNoor ed Deen, he said to him, Wo to thee! Hast thou anything left to besold or bought? And he would have laid violent hands upon him. Themerchants then looked towards Noor ed Deen (and they all loved him), andhe said to them, Here am I before you, and ye have all known histyranny. By Allah, exclaimed the Wezeer, were it not for you, I hadkilled him! Then all of them made signs, one to another, with the eye,and said, Not one of us will interfere between thee and him. And uponthis, 'Alee Noor ed Deen went up to the Wezeer, the son of Sawee (andNoor ed Deen was a man of courage), and he dragged the Wezeer from hissaddle, and threw him upon the ground. There was at that spot akneading place for mud, and the Wezeer fell into the midstof it, and Noor ed Deen beat him with his fist, and a blow fell upon histeeth, by which his beard became dyed with his blood. Now there werewith the Wezeer ten memlooks, and when they saw Noor ed Deen treat theirmaster in this manner, they put their hands upon the hilts of theirswords, and would have fallen upon him and cut him in pieces. but thepeople said to them, This is a Wezeer, and this is the son of a Wezeer,and perhaps they may make peace with each other, and ye will incur theanger of both of them. or perhaps a blow may fall upon your master, andye will all of you die the most ignominious of deaths: it is advisable,therefore, that ye interfere not between them. And when 'AleeNoor ed Deen had ceased from beating the Wezeer, he took his slave girl,and returned to his house.The Wezeer, the son of Sawee, then immediately arose, and his dress,which before was white, was now dyed with three colours, the colour ofmud, and the colour of blood, and the colour of ashes. andwhen he beheld himself in this condition, he took a roundmat, and hung it to his neck, and took in his hand twobundles of coarse grass, and went and stood beneath thepalace of the Sulan, and cried out, O King of the age! I amoppressed! So they brought him before the King, who looked at himattentively, and saw that he was his Wezeer, El Mo'een the son of Sawee.He said, therefore, Who hath done thus unto thee? and the Wezeer criedand moaned, and repeated these two verses: Shall fortune oppress me while thou existest. and the dogs devour mewhen thou art a lion?Shall all else who are dry drink freely from thy tanks, and I thirstin thine asylum when thou art as rain? O my lord, he continued, thus is every one who loveth thee and serveththee: these afflictions always befall him. And who, said the Kingagain, hath done thus unto thee? Know, answered the Wezeer, that I wentforth to day to the market of the female slaves with the idea of buyinga cook maid, and saw in the market a slave girl the like of whom I hadnever in my life beheld, and the broker said that she belonged to 'AleeNoor ed Deen. Now our lord the Sulan had given his father ten thousandpieces of gold to buy for him with it a beautiful female slave, and hebought that girl, and she pleased him. so he gave her to his son. andwhen his father died, the son pursued the path of prodigality, until hesold all his houses and gardens and utensils. and when he had become abankrupt, nothing else remaining in his possession, he took theslave girl to the market to sell her, and delivered her to the broker:so he cried her for sale, and the merchants continued bidding for heruntil her price amounted to four thousand pieces of gold. whereupon Isaid to myself, I will buy this for our lord the Sulan. for heroriginal price was from him. I therefore said, O my son, receive herprice, four thousand pieces of gold. But when he heard my words, helooked at me and replied, O ill omened old man! I will sell her to theJews and the Christians rather than to thee. I then said to him, Iwould not buy her for myself, but for our lord the Sulan, who is ourbenefactor. As soon, however, as he had heard these words from me, hewas filled with rage, and dragged me and threw me down from the horse,notwithstanding my advanced age, and beat me, and ceased not to do sountil he left me in the state in which thou seest me. Nothing exposed meto all this ill treatment but my coming to purchase this slave girl foryour majesty. The Wezeer then threw himself upon the ground, and layweeping and trembling.Now when the Sulan beheld his condition, and had heard his speech, thevein of anger swelled between his eyes, and he looked towards themembers of his court who were attending him. whereupon forty swordsmenstood before him, and he said to them, Descend immediately to the houseof 'Alee the son of El Fal the son of Khaan, and plunder it anddemolish it, and bring hither him and the slave girl with their handsbound behind them: drag them along upon their faces, and so bring thembefore me. They replied, We hear and obey: and went forth to repair tothe house of 'Alee Noor ed Deen. But there was in the court of theSulan a chamberlain named 'Alam ed Deen Senjer, who had been one of thememlooks of El Fal the son of Khaan, the father of 'Alee Noor ed Deen.and when he heard the order of the Sulan, and saw the enemies preparedto slay his master's son, it was insupportable to him. so he mounted hishorse, and proceeded to the house of 'Alee Noor ed Deen, and knocked atthe door. Noor ed Deen came forth to him, and, when he saw him, knewhim, and would have saluted him. but he said, O my master, this is not atime for salutation, nor for talking. Noor ed Deen said, O'Alam ed Deen, what is the news? He replied, Save thyself by flight,thou and the slave girl. for El Mo'een the son of Sawee hath set up asnare for you, and if ye fall into his hands he will slay you: theSulan hath sent to you forty swordsmen, and it is my advice that ye flybefore the evil fall upon you. Then Senjer stretched forth his hand toNoor ed Deen with some pieces of gold, and he counted them, and foundthem to be forty pieces. and he said, O my master, receive these, and ifI had with me more, I would give it thee: but this is not a time forexpostulating. And upon this, Noor ed Deen went in to the damsel, andacquainted her with the occurrence, and she was confounded.The two then went forth immediately from the city, and God let down theveil of his protection upon them, and they proceeded to the bank of theriver, where they found a vessel ready to sail: the master was standingin the midst of it, and saying, He who hath anything to do, whetherleave taking or procuring provisions, or who hath forgotten aught, lethim do what he desireth and return. for we are going. And they allreplied, We have nothing remaining to do, O master. So, upon this, themaster said to his crew, Quick! Loose the rope's end, and pull up thestake. And 'Alee Noor ed Deen exclaimed, Whither, O master?He answered, To the Abode of Peace, Baghdad. And Noor ed Deen embarked,and the damsel with him, and they set the vessel afloat, and spread thesails, and it shot along like a bird with its pair of wings, carryingthem forward with a favourable wind.Meanwhile, the forty men whom the Sulan had sent came to the house of'Alee Noor ed Deen, and broke open the doors and entered, and searchedall the chambers, but without success. so they demolished the house, andreturned, and acquainted the Sulan, who said, Search for them in everyplace where they may be: and they replied, We hear and obey. The WezeerEl Mo'een the son of Sawee then descended to his house, after the Sulanhad invested him with a robe of honour, and had said to him, None shalltake vengeance for thee but myself. And he greeted the King with aprayer for long life, and his heart was set at ease: and the Sulan gaveorders to proclaim throughout the city, O all ye people! our lord theSulan hath commanded that whoever shall meet with 'Alee Noor ed Deen,and bring him to the Sulan, shall be invested with a robe of honour,and he will give him a thousand pieces of gold. and he who shall concealhim, or know where he is, and not give information thereof, will meritthe exemplary punishment that shall befall him! So all the people beganto search for him. but could not trace him. Such was the case withthese people.Now as to 'Alee Noor ed Deen and his slave, they arrived in safety atBaghdad, and the master of the vessel said to them, This is Baghdad, andit is a city of security: winter with its cold hath departed from it,and the spring quarter hath come with its roses, and its trees are inblossom, and its waters are flowing. And upon this, 'Alee Noor ed Deenlanded with his slave girl, and gave the master five pieces of gold.They then walked a little way, and destiny cast them among the gardens,and they came to a place which they found swept and sprinkled, with longmaabahs, and pots suspended filled with water, and over it was acovering of trellis work of canes extending along the whole length of alane, at the upper end of which was the gate of a garden. but this wasshut. And Noor ed Deen said to the damsel, By Allah, this is a pleasantplace! and she replied, O my master, let us sit down a while upon oneof these maabahs. So they mounted and seated themselves there, andthey washed their faces and hands, and enjoyed the current of thezephyr, and slept. Glory be to Him who sleepeth not!This garden was called the Garden of Delight, and in it was a palacecalled the Palace of Diversion, and it belonged to the Khaleefeh HaroonEr Rasheed, who, when his heart was contracted, used to come to thisgarden, and enter the palace above mentioned, and there sit. The palacehad eighty latticed windows, and eighty lamps were suspended in it, andin the midst of it was a great candlestick of gold. and when theKhaleefeh entered it, he commanded the female slaves to open thewindows, and ordered Is a the cup companion to sing with them: so hisheart became dilated, and his anxiety ceased. There was a superintendentto the garden, an old man, named the sheykh Ibraheem. and it happenedthat he went forth once to transact some business, and found therepersons diverting themselves with women of suspicious character,whereupon he was violently enraged, and having waited until theKhaleefeh came thither some days after, he acquainted him with thisoccurrence, and the Khaleefeh said, Whomsoever thou shalt find at thegate of the garden, do with him what thou wilt. Now on this day thesheykh Ibraheem went out to transact an affair of business, and foundthe two sleeping at the garden gate covered with a single izar. and hesaid, Do not these two persons know that the Khaleefeh hath given mepermission to kill every one whom I find here? But I will only givethese two a slight beating, that no one may again approach the gate ofthe garden. He then cut a green palm stick, and went forth to them, andraised his hand until the whiteness of his arm pit appeared, and wasabout to beat them. but he reflected in his mind, and said, O Ibraheem,how shouldst thou beat them when thou knowest not their case? They maybe two strangers, or of the children of the road, whomdestiny hath cast here. I will therefore uncover their faces, and lookat them. So he lifted up the izar from their faces, and said, These aretwo handsome persons, and it is not proper that I should beat them. Andhe covered their faces again, and, approaching the foot of 'AleeNoor ed Deen, began to rub it gently. whereupon Noor ed Deenopened his eyes, and saw that he was an old man. and he blushed, anddrew in his feet, and, sitting up, took the hand of the sheykh Ibraheemand kissed it. and the sheykh said to him, O my son, whence are ye? Omy master, he answered, we are strangers. And a tear gushed from hiseye. The sheykh Ibraheem then said to him, O my son, know that theProphet (God bless and save him!) hath enjoined generosity to thestranger. Wilt thou not arise, O my son, and enter the garden, anddivert thyself in it, that thy heart may be dilated? O my master, saidNoor ed Deen, to whom doth this garden belong? The sheykh answered, O myson, this garden I inherited from my family. And his design in sayingthis was only that they might feel themselves at ease, and enter thegarden. And when Noor ed Deen heard his words, he thanked him, andarose, together with his slave, and, the sheykh Ibraheem preceding them,they entered the garden.The gate was arched, and over it were vines with grapes of differentcolours. the red, like rubies. and the black, like ebony. They entered abower, and found within it fruits growing in clusters and singly, andthe birds were warbling their various notes upon the branches: thenightingale was pouring forth its melodious sounds. and the turtle dovefilled the place with its cooing. and the blackbird, in its singing,resembled a human being. and the ring dove, a person exhilarated bywine. The fruits upon the trees, comprising every description that wasgood to eat, had ripened. and there were two of each kind: there werethe camphor apricot, and the almond apricot, and the apricot ofKhurasan. the plum of a colour like the complexion of beauties. thecherry delighting the sense of every man. the red, the white, and thegreen fig, of the most beautiful colours. and flowers like pearls andcoral. the rose, whose redness put to shame the cheeks of the lovely.the violet, like sulphur in contact with fire. the myrtle, thegilliflower, the lavender, and the anemone. and their leaves werebespangled with the tears of the clouds. the chamomile smiled,displaying its teeth, and the narcissus looked at the rose with itsnegroes' eyes. the citrons resembled round cups. the limes were likebullets of gold. the ground was carpeted with flowers of every colour,and the place beamed with the charms of spring. the river murmured bywhile the birds sang, and the wind whistled among the trees. the seasonwas temperate, and the zephyr was languishing.The sheykh Ibraheem conducted them into the elevated saloon,and they were charmed with its beauty and the extraordinary eleganceswhich it displayed, and seated themselves in one of the windows. andNoor ed Deen, reflecting upon his past entertainments, exclaimed, ByAllah, this place is most delightful! It hath reminded me of pastevents, and quenched in me an anguish like the fire of theghaa. The sheykh Ibraheem then brought to them some food,and they ate to satisfaction, and washed their hands, and Noor ed Deen,seating himself again in one of the windows, called to his slave, andshe came to him. and they sat gazing at the trees laden with all kindsof fruits. after which, Noor ed Deen looked towards the sheykh, and saidto him, O sheykh Ibraheem, hast thou not any beverage? For people drinkafter eating. So the sheykh brought him some sweet and cold water: butNoor ed Deen said, This is not the beverage I desire. Dost thou wantwine? asked the sheykh. Yes, answered Noor ed Deen. The sheykhexclaimed, I seek refuge with Allah from it! Verily, for thirteen yearsI have done nothing of that kind. for the Prophet (God bless and savehim!) cursed its drinker and its presser and its carrier. Hear from metwo words, said Noor ed Deen. The sheykh replied, Say what thou wilt. Sohe said, If thou be neither the presser of the wine, nor its drinker,nor its carrier, will aught of the curse fall upon thee? The sheykhanswered, No. Then take this piece of gold, rejoined Noor ed Deen, andthese two pieces of silver, and mount the ass, and halt at a distancefrom the place, and whatsoever man thou findest to buy it, call to him,and say to him, take these two pieces of silver, and with this piece ofgold buy some wine, and place it upon the ass: so, in this case, thouwilt be neither the carrier, nor the presser, nor the buyer. and nothingwill befall thee of that which befalleth the rest.The sheykh Ibraheem, after laughing at his words, replied, By Allah, Ihave never seen one more witty than thou, nor heard speech more sweet.And Noor ed Deen said to him, We have become dependant upon thee, andthou hast nothing to do but to comply with our wishes: bring us,therefore, all that we require. O my son, said the sheykh, my butteryhere is before thee (and it was the store room furnished for the Princeof the Faithful): enter it then, and take from it what thou wilt. for itcontaineth more than thou desirest. So Noor ed Deen entered thestore room, and beheld in it vessels of gold and silver and crystal,adorned with a variety of jewels. and he took out such of them as hedesired, and poured the wine into the vessels of earthenware and bottlesof glass. and he and the damsel began to drink, astonished at the beautyof the things which they beheld. The sheykh Ibraheem then brought tothem sweet scented flowers, and seated himself at a distance from them.and they continued drinking, in a state of the utmost delight, until thewine took effect upon them, and their cheeks reddened, and their eyeswantoned like those of the gazelle, and their hair hungdown: whereupon the sheykh Ibraheem said, What aileth methat I am sitting at a distance from them? Why should I not sit bythem? And when shall I be in the company of such as these two, who arelike two moons? He then advanced, and seated himself at the edge of theraised portion of the floor. and Noor ed Deen said to him, O my master,by my life I conjure thee to approach and join us. So he went to them.and Noor ed Deen filled a cup, and, looking at the sheykh, said to him,Drink, that thou mayest know how delicious is its flavour. But thesheykh Ibraheem exclaimed, I seek refuge with Allah! Verily, forthirteen years I have done nothing of that kind. And Noor ed Deen,feigning to pay no attention to him, drank the cup, and threw himselfupon the ground, pretending that intoxication had overcome him.Upon this, Enees el Jelees looked towards the sheykh, and said to him, Osheykh Ibraheem, see how this man hath treated me. O my mistress, saidhe, what aileth him? She rejoined, Always doth he treat me thus: hedrinketh a while, and then sleepeth, and I remain alone, and find no oneto keep me company over my cup. If I drink, who will serve me? And if Ising, who will hear me? The sheykh, moved with tenderness and affectionfor her by her words, replied, It is not proper that a cup companion bethus. The damsel then filled a cup, and, looking at the sheykh Ibraheem,said to him, I conjure thee, by my life that thou take it and drink it.reject it not, but accept it, and refresh my heart. So he stretchedforth his hand, and took the cup, and drank it. and she filled forhim a second time, and handed it to him, saying, O my master, thisremaineth for thee. He replied, By Allah, I cannot drink it: thatwhich I have drunk is enough for me. But she said, By Allah, it isindispensable: and he took the cup, and drank it. She then gave him thethird. and he took it, and was about to drink it, when, lo, Noor ed Deenraised himself, and said to him, O sheykh Ibraheem, what is this? Did Inot conjure thee a while ago, and thou refusedst, and saidst, Verily,for thirteen years I have not done it? The sheykh Ibraheem, touchedwith shame, replied, By Allah, I am not in fault. for she pressed me.And Noor ed Deen laughed, and they resumed their carousal, and thedamsel, turning her eyes towards her master, said to him, O my master,drink thou, and do not urge the sheykh Ibraheem. that I may divert theewith the sight of him. So she began to fill and to hand to her master,and her master filled and gave to her, and thus they continued to do,time after time. till at length the sheykh Ibraheem looked towards themand said, What meaneth this? And what sort of carousal is this?Wherefore do ye not give me to drink, since I have become yourcup companion? At this they both laughed until they became almostsenseless. and then drank, and gave him to drink. and they continuedthus until the expiration of a third of the night, when the damsel said,O sheykh Ibraheem, with thy permission shall I rise and light one of thecandles which are arranged here? Rise, he answered. but light not morethan one candle. But she sprang upon her feet, and, beginning with thefirst candle, proceeded until she had lighted eighty. She then sat downagain. and presently Noor ed Deen said, O sheykh Ibraheem, in whatfavour am I held with thee? Wilt thou not allow me to light one of theselamps? The sheykh answered, Arise, and light one lamp, and be not thoualso troublesome. So he arose, and, beginning with the first lamp,lighted all the eighty. and the saloon seemed to dance. And after this,the sheykh Ibraheem, overcome by intoxication, said to them, Ye are morefrolicksome than I: and he sprang upon his feet, and opened all thewindows, and sat down again with them, and they continued carousing andreciting verses. and the place rang with their merriment.Now God, the All seeing and All knowing, who hath appointed a cause toevery event, had decreed that the Khaleefeh should be sitting that nightat one of the windows looking towards the Tigris, by moonlight. and helooked in that direction, and saw the light of lamps and candlesreflected in the river, and, turning his eyes up towards the palace inthe garden, he beheld it beaming with those candles and lamps, andexclaimed, Bring hither to me Jaafar El Barmekee! In the twinkling of aneye, Jaafar stood before the Prince of the Faithful. and the Khaleefehsaid to him, O dog of Wezeers, dost thou serve me and not acquaint mewith what happeneth in the city of Baghdad? What, asked Jaafar, is theoccasion of these words? The Khaleefeh answered, If the city of Baghdadwere not taken from me, the Palace of Diversion were not enlivened withthe light of the lamps and candles, and its windows were not opened. Woto thee! Who could do these things unless the office of Khaleefeh weretaken from me? Who, said Jaafar (the muscles of his side quiveringfrom fear), informed thee that the lamps and candles were lighted in thePalace of Diversion, and that its windows were opened? The Khaleefehreplied, Advance hither to me, and look. So Jaafar approached theKhaleefeh, and, looking towards the garden, beheld the palace as it werea flame of fire, its light surpassing that of the moon. He desired,therefore, to make an excuse for the sheykh Ibraheem, thesuperintendent, thinking, from what he beheld, that the event might haveoccurred through his permission: and accordingly he said, O Prince ofthe Faithful, the sheykh Ibraheem last week said to me, O my masterJaafar, I am desirous of entertaining my children during my life and thelife of the Prince of the Faithful. And what, said I, is thy design insaying this? He answered, It is my wish that thou wouldst obtain for mepermission from the Khaleefeh that I may celebrate the circumcision ofmy sons in the palace. So I said, Do what thou wilt with respect to theentertainment of thy sons, and, if God will, I shall have an interviewwith the Khaleefeh, and will acquaint him with it. And he left me thus.and I forgot to acquaint thee. O Jaafar, said the Khaleefeh, thou wastguilty of one offence against me, and then thine offence became two: forthou hast erred in two points: the first, thy not acquainting me withthis affair. and the second, thy not accomplishing the desire of thesheykh Ibraheem. for he did not come to thee and address thee with thesewords but to hint a request for some money by the aid of which to effecthis design, and thou neither gavest him anything nor acquaintedst methat I might give him. O Prince of the Faithful, replied Jaafar, Iforgot.The Khaleefeh then said, By my forefathers, I will not pass theremainder of my night but with him, for he is a just man, whofrequenteth the sheykhs, and attendeth to the poor, andfavoureth the indigent. and I imagine all his acquaintances are with himthis night. so I must repair to him: perhaps one of them may offer upfor us a prayer productive of good to us in this world and the next. andprobably some advantage may accrue to him from my presence, and he willreceive pleasure from this, together with his friends. O Prince of theFaithful, replied Jaafar, the greater part of the night hath passed, andthey are now about to disperse. But the Khaleefeh said, We must go tothem. And Jaafar was silent, and was perplexed in his mind, not knowingwhat to do. So the Khaleefeh rose upon his feet, and Jaafar rose andpreceded him, and Mesroor the eunuch went with them. The three walked onreflecting, and, departing from the palace, proceeded through thestreets, in the attire of merchants. until they arrived at the gate ofthe garden above mentioned. and the Khaleefeh, approaching it, found itopen. and he was surprised, and said, See, O Jaafar, how the sheykhIbraheem hath left the gate open until this hour, which is not his usualcustom. They then entered, and came to the end of the garden, where theystopped beneath the palace. and the Khaleefeh said, O Jaafar, I desireto take a view of them secretly before I go up to them, that I may seehow the sheykhs are occupied in the dispensing of their blessings andthe employment of their miraculous powers. for they have qualities whichdistinguish them both in their private retirements and in their publicexercises. and now we hear not their voices, nor discover any indicationof their presence. Having thus said, he looked around, and, seeing atall walnut tree, he said, O Jaafar, I would climb this tree (for itsbranches are near to the windows) and look at them. And accordingly heascended the tree, and climbed from branch to branch until he came tothat which was opposite to one of the windows, and there he sat, and,looking in through this window of the palace, beheld a damsel and ayoung man, like two moons (extolled be the perfection of Him who createdthem!). and he saw the sheykh Ibraheem sitting with a cup in his hand,and saying, O mistress of beauties, drinking unaccompanied by merrysounds is not pleasant. Hast thou not heard the saying of the poet? Circulate it in the large cup, and in the small. and receive itfrom the hand of the shining moon:And drink not without merry sounds. for I have observed thathorses drink to the sound of whistling.When the Khaleefeh witnessed this conduct of the sheykh Ibraheem, thevein of anger swelled between his eyes, and he descended, and said, OJaafar, I have never seen anything of the miraculous performances of thejust such as I have beheld this night: ascend, therefore, thyself also,into this tree, and look, lest the blessings of the just escapethee. On hearing the words of the Prince of the Faithful,Jaafar was perplexed at his situation. and he climbed up into the tree,and looked, and saw Noor ed Deen and the sheykh Ibraheem and the damsel,and the sheykh Ibraheem had the cup in his hand. As soon as he beheldthis, he made sure of destruction. and he descended, and stood beforethe Prince of the Faithful, and the Khaleefeh said, O Jaafar, praise beto God who hath made us to be of the number of those who follow theexternal ordinances of the holy law, and averted from us the sin ofdisguising ourselves by the practice of hypocrisy! But Jaafar was unableto reply, from his excessive confusion. The Khaleefeh then lookedtowards him, and said, Who can have brought these persons hither, andadmitted them into my palace? But the like of this young man and thisdamsel, in beauty and loveliness and symmetry of form, mine eye hathnever beheld. Jaafar, now conceiving a hope that the Khaleefeh might bepropitiated, replied, Thou hast spoken truly, O Prince of the Faithful.And the Khaleefeh said, O Jaafar, climb up with us upon this branchwhich is opposite them, that we may amuse ourselves by observing them.So they both climbed up into the tree, and, looking at them, heard thesheykh Ibraheem say, O my mistress, I have relinquished decorum by thedrinking of wine. but the pleasure of this is not complete without themelodious sounds of stringed instruments. O sheykh Ibraheem, repliedEnees el Jelees, by Allah, if we had any musical instrument, ourhappiness were perfect. And when the sheykh Ibraheem heard her words, herose upon his feet. The Khaleefeh said to Jaafar, What may he be goingto do? Jaafar replied, I know not. And the sheykh Ibraheem went away,and returned with a lute. and the Khaleefeh, looking attentively at it,saw that it was the lute of Is a, the cup companion. and said, ByAllah, if this damsel sing not well, I will crucify you all. but if shesing well, I will pardon them, and crucify thee. So Jaafar said, OAllah, let her not sing well! Why? asked the Khaleefeh. That thoumayest crucify all of us, answered Jaafar. and then we shall cheer oneanother by conversation. And the Khaleefeh laughed: and the damsel tookthe lute, and tuned its strings, and played upon it in a manner thatwould melt iron, and inspire an idiot with intellect. after which shesang with such sweetness that the Khaleefeh exclaimed, O Jaafar, neverin my life have I heard so enchanting a voice as this! Perhaps, saidJaafar, the anger of the Khaleefeh hath departed from him? Yea, heanswered. it hath departed. He then descended with Jaafar from the tree,and, looking towards him, said, I am desirous of going up to them, tosit with them, and to hear the damsel sing before me. O Prince of theFaithful, replied Jaafar, if thou go up to them, probably they will betroubled by thy presence. and as to the sheykh Ibraheem, he willassuredly die of fear. The Khaleefeh therefore said, O Jaafar, thou mustacquaint me with some stratagem by means of which I may learn the truthof the affair without their knowing that I have discovered them. And heand Jaafar walked towards the Tigris, reflecting upon this matter. andlo, a fisherman stood beneath the windows of the palace, and he threwhis net, hoping to catch something by means of which to obtain hissubsistence. Now the Khaleefeh had, on a former occasion, called to thesheykh Ibraheem, and said to him, What was that noise that I heardbeneath the windows of the palace? and he answered, The voices of thefishermen, who are fishing: so he said, Go down and forbid them fromcoming to this place. They were therefore forbidden to come thither. butthis night there came a fisherman named Kereem, and, seeing thegarden gate open, he said within himself, This is a time ofinadvertence, and perhaps I may catch some fish on this occasion: so hetook his net, and threw it into the river, and then recited some verses,contrasting the condition of the poor fisherman, toiling throughout thenight, with that of the lord of the palace, who, awaking from a pleasantslumber, findeth the fawn in his possession. and as soon as he hadfinished his recitation, lo, the Khaleefeh, unattended, stood at hishead. The Khaleefeh knew him, and exclaimed, O Kereem! and thefisherman, hearing him call him by his name, turned towards him. andwhen he beheld the Khaleefeh, the muscles of his side quivered, and hesaid, By Allah, O Prince of the Faithful, I did not this in mockery ofthe mandate. but poverty and the wants of my family impelled me to theact of which thou art witness. The Khaleefeh replied, Throw thy net formy luck. And the fisherman advanced, rejoicing exceedingly, and cast thenet, and, having waited until it had attained its limit and becomesteady at the bottom, drew it in again, and there came up in it avariety of fish that could not be numbered.The Khaleefeh was delighted at this, and said, O Kereem, strip off thyclothes: and he did so. He was clad in a jubbeh in whichwere a hundred patches of coarse woollen stuff, containing vermin of themost abominable kind, and among them fleas in such numbers that he mightalmost have been transported by their means over the face of the earth.and he took from his head a turban which for three years he had neverunwound. but when he happened to find a piece of rag he twisted itaround it: and when he had taken off the jubbeh and turban, theKhaleefeh pulled off from his own person two vests of silk of Alexandriaand Baalabekk, and a melwaahand said to the fisherman, Take these, and put them on. The Khaleefehthen put on himself the fisherman's jubbeh and turban, and, having drawna litham over his face, said to the fisherman, Go about thybusiness. and he kissed the feet of the Khaleefeh, and thanked him,reciting these two verses: Thou hast granted me favours beyond my power to acknowledge,and completely satisfied all my wants.I will thank thee, therefore, as long as I live. and when I die,my bones will thank thee in their grave.But scarcely had he finished his verses, when the vermin overran theperson of the Khaleefeh, and he began to seize them with his right handand his left from his neck, and to throw them down. and he exclaimed, Ofisherman, wo to thee! What are these abundant vermin in this jubbeh? Omy lord, he answered, at present they torment thee. but when a weekshall have passed over thee, thou wilt not feel them, nor think of them.The Khaleefeh laughed, and said to him, How can I suffer this jubbeh toremain upon me? The fisherman replied, I wish to tell thee something.but I am ashamed, through my awe of the Khaleefeh. Impart, said theKhaleefeh, what thou hast to tell me. So he said to him, It hathoccurred to my mind, O Prince of the Faithful, that thou desirest tolearn the art of fishing, in order that thou mayest be master of a tradethat may profit thee. and if such be thy desire, this jubbeh is suitableto thee. And the Khaleefeh laughed at his words.The fisherman then went his way, and the Khaleefeh took the basket offish, and, having put upon it a little grass, went with it to Jaafar,and stood before him. and Jaafar, thinking that he was Kereem thefisherman, feared for him, and said, O Kereem, what brought thee hither?Save thyself by flight. for the Khaleefeh is here this night. And whenthe Khaleefeh heard the words of Jaafar, he laughed until he fell downupon his back. So Jaafar said, Perhaps thou art our lord the Prince ofthe Faithful? Yes, O Jaafar, answered the Khaleefeh, and thou art myWezeer, and I came with thee hither, and thou knowest me not. How thenshould the sheykh Ibraheem know me when he is drunk? Remain where thouart until I return to thee. Jaafar replied, I hear and obey: and theKhaleefeh advanced to the door of the palace, and knocked. The sheykhIbraheem arose, therefore, and said, Who is at the door? He answered, I,O sheykh Ibraheem. The sheykh said, Who art thou? and the Khaleefehanswered, I am Kereem the fisherman: I heard that there were guests withthee, and have therefore brought thee some fish. for it isexcellent. Now Noor ed Deen and the damsel were both fond of fish, andwhen they heard the mention of it they rejoiced exceedingly, and said, Omy master, open to him, and let him come in to us with the fish which hehath brought. So the sheykh Ibraheem opened the door, and the Khaleefeh,in his fisherman's disguise, entered, and began by salutation. and thesheykh Ibraheem said to him, Welcome to the robber, the thief, thegambler! Come hither, and shew us the fish which thou hast brought. Hetherefore shewed it to them. and lo, it was alive, and moving. and thedamsel exclaimed, By Allah, O my master, this fish is excellent! I wishit were fried! By Allah, said the sheykh Ibraheem, thou hast spokentruth. Then, addressing the Khaleefeh, he said, O fisherman, I wish thouhadst brought this fish fried. Arise, and fry it for us, and bringit. On the head be thy commands, replied the Khaleefeh: I will fry it,and bring it. Be quick, said they, in doing it.The Khaleefeh therefore arose and ran back to Jaafar, and said, OJaafar, they want the fish fried. O Prince of the Faithful, replied he,give it me, and I will fry it. But the Khaleefeh said, By the tombs ofmy ancestors, none shall fry it but myself. with my own hand will I doit! He then repaired to the hut of the superintendent, and, searchingthere, found in it everything that he required, the frying pan, and eventhe salt, and wild marjoram, and other things. So he approached thefire place, and put on the frying pan, and fried it nicely. and when itwas done, he put it upon a banana leaf, and having taken from the gardensome limes, he went up with the fish, and placed it before them. Theyoung man, therefore, and the damsel and the sheykh Ibraheem advancedand ate. and when they had finished, they washed their hands, andNoor ed Deen said, By Allah, O fisherman, thou hast done us a kindnessthis night. Then putting his hand into his pocket, he took forth for himthree pieces of gold, of those which Senjer had presented to him when hewas setting forth on his journey, and said, O fisherman, excuse me. for,by Allah, if I had known thee before the events that have latelyhappened to me, I would have extracted the bitterness of poverty fromthy heart: but take this as accordant with my present circumstances. Sosaying, he threw the pieces of gold to the Khaleefeh, who took them, andkissed them, and put them in his pocket. The object of theKhaleefeh in doing this was only that he might hear the damsel sing: sohe said to him, Thou hast treated me with beneficence, and abundantlyrecompensed me. but I beg of thy unbounded indulgence that this damselmay sing an air, that I may hear her. Noor ed Deen therefore said, OEnees el Jelees! She replied, Yes. By my life, said he, sing to ussomething for the gratification of this fisherman. for he desireth tohear thee. And when she had heard what her master said, she took thelute, and tried it with her fingers, after she had twisted its pegs, andsang to it these two verses: The fingers of many a fawn like damsel have played upon the lute,and the soul hath been ravished by the touch.She hath made the deaf to hear her songs. and the dumb hath exclaimed,Thou hast excelled in thy singing!Then she played again, in an extraordinary manner, so as to charm theminds of her hearers, and sang the following couplet: We are honoured by your visiting our abode, and your splendourhath dispelled the darkness of the moonless night:It is therefore incumbent upon me to perfume my dwelling with muskand rose water and camphor.Upon this, the Khaleefeh was affected with violent emotion, and overcomeby ecstasy, so that he was no longer master of himself from excessivedelight. and he began to exclaim, Allah approve thee! Allah approvethee! Allah approve thee! So Noor ed Deen said to him, O fisherman, havethe damsel and her art in striking the chords pleased thee? Yea, byAllah! exclaimed the Khaleefeh. And Noor ed Deen immediately said, Sheis bestowed upon thee as a present from me, the present of a generousman who will not revoke his gift. And he rose upon his feet, and took amelwaah, and threw it upon the Khaleefeh in the fisherman's disguise,ordering him to depart with the damsel. But she looked towards him, andsaid, O my master, wilt thou part from me without bidding me farewell?If we must be separated, pause while I take leave of thee. And sherecited the following couplet: If you depart from me, still your abode will be in my heart,in the recess of my bosom.I implore the Compassionate to grant our reunion. and a boonsuch as this, God will grant to whom He pleaseth.And when she had finished, Noor ed Deen thus replied to her: She bade me farewell on the day of separation, saying, whileshe wept from the pain that it occasioned,What wilt thou do after my departure? Say this, I replied,unto him who will survive it.The Khaleefeh, when he heard this, was distressed at the thought ofseparating them, and, looking towards the young man, he said to him, Omy master, art thou in fear on account of any crime, or art thou in debtto any one? Noor ed Deen answered, By Allah, O fisherman, a wonderfulevent, and an extraordinary adventure, happened to me and this damsel:if it were engraved on the understanding, it would be a lesson to himwho would be admonished. Wilt thou not, rejoined the Khaleefeh, relateto us thy story, and acquaint us with thy case? Perhaps thy doing so maybe productive of relief. for the relief of God is near. So Noor ed Deensaid, Wilt thou hear our story in poetry or in prose? Prose, answeredthe Khaleefeh, is mere talk. and verse, words put together like pearls.And Noor ed Deen hung down his head towards the ground, and then relatedhis story in a series of verses: but when he had finished, the Khaleefehbegged him to explain his case more fully. He therefore acquainted himwith the whole of his circumstances from beginning to end. and when theKhaleefeh understood the affair, he said to him, Whither wouldst thounow repair? He answered, God's earth is wide. The Khaleefeh then said tohim, I will write for thee a letter which thou shalt convey to theSulan Moammad the son of Suleyman Ez Zeynee, and when he shall haveread it, he will do thee no injury. Is there in the world, saidNoor ed Deen, a fisherman who correspondeth with Kings? Verily this is athing that can never be. Thou hast spoken truly, rejoined theKhaleefeh. but I will acquaint thee with the cause. Know that I read inthe same school with him, under a master, and I was his monitor. andafter that, prosperity was his lot, and he became a Sulan, while Godmade me to be a fisherman: yet I have never sent to request anything ofhim, but he hath performed my wish. and if I sent to him every day torequest a thousand things of him, he would do what I asked. WhenNoor ed Deen, therefore, heard his words, he said to him, Write, that Imay see. And he took an inkhorn and a pen, and wrote (after the phrase,In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful). To proceed. Thisletter is from Haroon Er Rasheed the son of El Mahdee, to his highnessMoammad the son of Suleyman Ez Zeynee, who hath been encompassed by mybeneficence, and whom I constituted my viceroy of a portion of mydominions. I acquaint thee that the bearer of this letter isNoor ed Deen the son of El Fal the son of Khaan the Wezeer, and on hisarrival in thy presence thou shalt divest thyself of the regalauthority, and seat him in thy place. for I have appointed him to theoffice to which I formerly appointed thee: so disobey not my commands:and peace be on thee. He then gave the letter to 'Alee Noor ed Deen,who took it and kissed it and put it in his turban, and immediately setforth on his journey.The sheykh Ibraheem now looked towards the Khaleefeh in his fisherman'sdisguise, and said to him, O most contemptible of fishermen, thou hastbrought us two fish worth twenty half dirhems, and receivedthree pieces of gold, and desirest to take the slave also. But when theKhaleefeh heard these words, he cried out at him, and made a sign toMesroor, who immediately discovered himself, and rushed in upon him.Jaafar, meanwhile, had sent one of the attendants of the garden to theporter of the palace to demand a suit of clothing of him for the Princeof the Faithful. and the man went, and brought the dress, and kissed theground before the Khaleefeh, who took off and gave to him that withwhich he was then clad, and put on this suit. The sheykh Ibraheem wassitting on a chair: the Khaleefeh paused to see the result: and thesheykh was astounded, and began to bite the ends of his fingers throughhis confusion, saying, Am I asleep or awake? The Khaleefeh then lookedat him, and said, O sheykh Ibraheem, what is this predicament in whichthou art placed? And upon this, the sheykh recovered from hisintoxication, and, throwing himself upon the ground, imploredforgiveness: and the Khaleefeh pardoned him. after which he gave ordersthat the damsel should be conveyed to the palace where he resided. andwhen she had arrived there, he appropriated to her a separate lodging,and appointed persons to wait upon her, and said to her, Know that Ihave sent thy master as Sulan of El Barah, and, if God please, I willdespatch to him a dress of honour, and send thee also to him with it.As to Noor ed Deen, he continued his journey until he enteredEl Barah, and went up to the palace of the Sulan, when he uttered aloud cry, whereupon the Sulan desired him to approach. and when he cameinto the presence of the King, he kissed the ground before him, andproduced the letter, and handed it to him. And as soon as the Sulan sawthe superscription in the handwriting of the Prince of the Faithful, herose upon his feet, and, having kissed it three times, said, I hear andpay obedience to God (whose name be exalted!) and to the Prince of theFaithful. He then summoned before him the four aees, andthe Emeers, and was about to divest himself of the regal office: but,lo, the Wezeer El Mo'een the son of Sawee was before him, and the Sulangave him the letter of the Prince of the Faithful, and when he saw it,he rent it in pieces, and put it into his mouth, and chewed it, andthrew it down. The Sulan, enraged, cried, Wo to thee! What hath inducedthee to act thus? He answered, This man hath had no interview with theKhaleefeh nor with his Wezeer. but is a young wretch, an artful devil,who, having met with a paper containing the handwriting of theKhaleefeh, hath counterfeited it, and written what he desired: whereforethen shouldst thou abdicate the sovereignty, when the Khaleefeh hath notsent to thee an envoy with a royal autographical mandate. for if thisaffair were true, he had sent with him a Chamberlain or a Wezeer. but hecame alone. What then is to be done? said the Sulan. The Wezeeranswered, Send away this young man with me, and I will take charge ofhim, and despatch him in company with a Chamberlain to the city ofBaghdad. and if his words be true, he will bring us a royalautographical mandate and diploma of investiture. and if not true, theywill send him back to us with the Chamberlain, and I will take myrevenge upon my offender.When the Sulan heard what the Wezeer said, it pleased him. and theWezeer took him away, and cried out to the pages, who threwdown Noor ed Deen, and beat him until he became insensible. He thenordered to put a chain upon his feet, and called to the jailer. and whenhe came, he kissed the ground before him. This jailer was nameduey. and the Wezeer said to him, O uey, I desire thatthou take this person, and cast him into one of the subterranean cellswhich are in thy prison, and torture him night and day. The jailerreplied, I hear and obey: and he put Noor ed Deen into the prison, andlocked the door upon him. but after having done this, he gave orders tosweep a maabah within the door, and furnished it with a prayer carpetand a pillow, and seated Noor ed Deen upon it, and loosed his chain,and treated him with kindness. The Wezeer every day sent to him,commanding him to beat him. and the jailer pretended that he torturedhim, while, on the contrary, he treated him with benignity.Thus he continued to do for forty days. and on the forty first day,there came a present from the Khaleefeh, and when the Sulan saw it, itpleased him, and he conferred with the Wezeers upon the subject. but onesaid, Perhaps this present was designed for the new Sulan. Upon this,the Wezeer El Mo'een the son of Sawee remarked, It were proper to haveslain him on his arrival: and the Sulan exclaimed, Now thou hastreminded me of him, go down and bring him, and I will strike off hishead. The Wezeer replied, I hear and obey: and arose, saying, I desireto proclaim throughout the city, He who wisheth to witness thedecapitation of Noor ed Deen 'Alee the son of El Fal the son of Khaan,let him come to the palace: so that all the people may come to beholdit, and I may gratify my heart, and mortify my enviers. The Sulan said,Do what thou wilt. So the Wezeer descended, full of joy and happiness,and went to the Walee, and ordered him to make this proclamation. andwhen the people heard the crier, they all grieved and wept, even theboys in the schools, and the tradesmen in their shops. and numbers ofthe people strove together to take for themselves places where theymight behold the spectacle, while others repaired to the prison, toaccompany him thence. The Wezeer then went forth, attended by tenmemlooks, to the prison: and uey the jailer said to him, What dostthou desire, O our lord the Wezeer? Bring forth to me, said the Wezeer,this young wretch. The jailer replied, He is in a most miserable statefrom the excessive beating that I have inflicted upon him. And heentered, and found him reciting some verses, commencing thus: Who is there to aid me in my affliction? For my pain hath becomeintense, and my remedy is scarce procurable!And the jailer pulled off from him his clean clothes, and, having cladhim in two dirty garments, brought him out to the Wezeer. Noor ed Deenthen looked at him, and saw that he was his enemy who had incessantlydesired his destruction. and when he beheld him, he wept, and said tohim, Art thou secure from misfortune? Hast thou not heard the saying ofthe poet? They made use of their power, and used it tyrannically. and soonit became as though it never had existed.O Wezeer, know that God (whose perfection be extolled, and whose namebe exalted!) is the doer of whatsover He willeth. O 'Alee, replied theWezeer, wouldst thou frighten me by these words? I am now going tostrike off thy head, in spite of the people of El Barah. and I will payno regard to thy counsel. but I will rather attend to the saying of thepoet: Let fortune do whatever it willeth, and bear with cheerful mindthe effects of fate.How excellent also is the saying of another poet: He who liveth after his enemy a single day, hath attainedhis desire.The Wezeer then ordered his pages to convey him on the back of a mule.whereupon they said to him (being distressed to obey), Suffer us tostone him and cut him in pieces, though our lives should be sacrificedin consequence. But he replied, Never do it. Have ye not heard what thepoet hath said: A decreed term is my inevitable lot. and as soon as its dayshave expired, I die.If the lions dragged me into their forest, they could not close itwhile aught of it remained.So they proceeded to proclaim before Noor ed Deen, This is the smallestrecompense of him who forgeth a letter from the Khaleefeh to the Sulan.And they continued to parade him throughout El Barah until theystationed him beneath the window of the palace, and in the place ofblood, when the executioner approached him, and said to him,I am a slave under command. and if thou hast any want, acquaint me withit, that I may perform it for thee. for there remaineth not of thy lifeany more than the period until the Sulan shall put forth his face fromthe window. And upon this, Noor ed Deen looked to the right and left,and recited these verses: Is there among you a merciful friend, who will aid me? I conjureyou by Allah to answer me!My life hath passed, and my death is at hand! Is there any whowill pity me, to obtain my recompense,And consider my state, and relieve my anguish, by a draughtof water that my torment may be lightened?And the people were excited to tears for him. and the executioner tooksome water to hand it to him. but the Wezeer arose from his place, andstruck the ulleh of water with his hand, and broke it, andcalled to the executioner, commanding him to strike off his head.whereupon he bound Noor ed Deen's eyes. The people, however, called outagainst the Wezeer, and raised a tumultuous cry against him, and manywords passed between them. and while they were in this state, lo, adust rose, and filled the sky and the open tracts. and when the Sulanbeheld it, as he sat in the palace, he said to his attendants, See whatis the news. The Wezeer said, After thou shalt first have beheaded thisman. But the Sulan replied, Wait thou until we see what is the news.Now this dust was the dust of Jaafar, the Wezeer of the Khaleefeh, andof his attendants. and the cause of their coming was this: TheKhaleefeh had passed thirty days without remembering the affair of 'Aleethe son of El Fal the son of Khaan, and no one mentioned it to him,until he came one night to the private apartment of Enees el Jelees, andheard her lamenting, as she recited, with a soft voice, the saying ofthe poet: Thine image whether distant or near, and my tonguenever ceaseth to mention thee.Her lamentation increased, and lo, the Khaleefeh opened the door, andentered the chamber, and saw Enees el Jelees weeping. On beholding theKhaleefeh, she fell at his feet, and, having kissed them three times,recited these two verses: O thou of pure origin, and of excellent birth. of ripe fruitful branch,and of unsullied race!I remind thee of the promise thy beneficence granted, and far be itfrom thee that thou shouldst forget it.The Khaleefeh said to her, Who art thou? She answered, I am the presentgiven to thee by 'Alee the son of El Fal the son of Khaan. and Irequest the fulfilment of the promise which thou gavest me, that thouwouldst send me to him with the honorary gift. for I have now been herethirty days, and have not tasted sleep. And upon this, the Khaleefehsummoned Jaafar El Barmekee, and said to him, For thirty days I haveheard no news of 'Alee the son of El Fal the son of Khaan, and Iimagine nothing less than that the Sulan hath killed him: but, by myhead! by the tombs of my ancestors! if any evil event hath happened tohim, I will destroy him who hath been the cause of it, though he be thedearest of men in my estimation! I desire, therefore, that thou journeyimmediately to El Barah, and bring me an account of the conduct of theKing Moammad the son of Suleyman Ez Zeynee to 'Alee the son of El Falthe son of Khaan.So Jaafar obeyed his commands, and set forth on his journey, and when heapproached, and saw this tumult and crowd, he said, What is the occasionof this crowd? They related to him, therefore, the situation in whichthey were with regard to Noor ed Deen. and when he heard their words, hehastened to go up to the Sulan, and, having saluted him, acquainted himwith the cause of his coming, and told him, that if any evil event hadhappened to 'Alee Noor ed Deen, the Khaleefeh would destroy him who wasthe cause of it. He then arrested the Sulan, and the Wezeer El Mo'eenthe son of Sawee, and gave orders to liberate 'Alee Noor ed Deen, andenthroned him as Sulan in the place of the Sulan Moammad the son ofSuleyman Ez Zeynee. after which he remained in El Barah three days, theusual period of entertainment. and on the morning of the fourth day,'Alee Noor ed Deen said to Jaafar, I have a longing desire to see thePrince of the Faithful. So Jaafar said to the King Moammad the son ofSuleyman, Prepare thyself for travelling. for we will perform themorning prayers, and depart to Baghdad. He replied, I hear andobey: and they performed the morning prayers, and mounted all together,with the Wezeer El Mo'een the son of Sawee, who now repented of what hehad done. As to 'Alee Noor ed Deen, he rode by the side of Jaafar: andthey continued their journey until they arrived at Baghdad, the Abode ofPeace.They then presented themselves before the Khaleefeh, and related to himthe case of Noor ed Deen. whereupon the Khaleefeh addressed him, saying,Take this sword, and strike off with it the head of thine enemy. And hetook it, and approached El Mo'een the son of Sawee. but he looked athim, and said to him, I did according to my nature, and do thouaccording to thine. And Noor ed Deen threw down the sword from his hand,and, looking towards the Khaleefeh, said, O Prince of the Faithful, hehath beguiled me. So the Khaleefeh said, Do thou leave him: and he saidto Mesroor, O Mesroor, advance thou, and strike off his head. Mesroor,therefore, did so: and upon this, the Khaleefeh said to 'Alee the son ofEl Fal the son of Khakan, Request of me what thou wilt. He replied, Omy lord, I have no want of the sovereignty of El Barah, and desirenothing but to have the honour of serving thee. Most willingly Iassent, said the Khaleefeh: and he summoned the damsel, and when shehad come before him, he bestowed favours upon them both: he gave to themone of the palaces of Baghdad, and assigned to them regular allowances,and made Noor ed Deen one of his companions at the table. and heremained with him until death overtook him.