THE FORTY FOURTH.THE STORY OF GHANIM THE SON OF EIYOOB, THE DISTRACTED SLAVE OF LOVE.It hath been told me, O happy King, said Shahrazad, that there was, inancient times, a certain merchant of Damascus, possessed ofwealth, who had a son like the moon at the full, of eloquent tongue,called Ghanim the son of Eiyoob, the Distracted Slave ofLove. and this son had a sister, named Fitneh, on account ofher excessive beauty and loveliness. Their father died, leaving themlarge property, among which were a hundred loads of silk andbrocade, and bags of musk, and upon these loads was written,This is intended for Baghdad: it having been his desire to journey tothat city.So, when God (whose name be exalted!) had taken his soul, and some timehad elapsed, his son took these loads, and journeyed with them toBaghdad. This was in the time of Haroon Er Rasheed. He took leave ofhis mother and relations and townspeople before his departure, and wentforth, placing his dependence upon God (whose name be exalted!), and Goddecreed him safety, so that he arrived at Baghdad, whither theretravelled in his company a party of merchants. He hired for himself ahandsome house, and furnished it with carpets and cushions, andsuspended curtains in it. and there he deposited those loads, togetherwith the mules and camels, and remained until he had rested himself. andthe merchants of Baghdad, and its great men, came and saluted him. Hethen took a wrapper containing ten pieces of costly stuff, with theprices written upon them, and went forth with them to the market of themerchants, who met him and saluted him, treated him with honour andwelcomed him, and seated him at the shop of the Sheykh of the market.and he sold the pieces, gaining, for every piece of gold, two. So Ghanimrejoiced. and he proceeded to sell the stuffs by little and little, andcontinued to do so for a whole year.After this, on the first day of the following year, he came to the samemarket, but found its gate shut, and, inquiring the cause of this, hewas answered, One of the merchants hath died, and all the rest of themhave gone to walk in his funeral procession. Wilt thou then, added hisinformant, gain a recompense by walking with them? Hereplied, Yes. and he asked respecting the place of the funeral. So theyguided him thither. and he performed the ablution, andwalked with the other merchants until they arrived at the place ofprayer, where they prayed over the dead. The merchants then walked alltogether before the corpse to the burial ground, Ghanim following them,until the procession arrived at the burial ground outside the city, andthey proceeded among the tombs until they came to that in which thecorpse was to be deposited. They found that the family of the deceasedhad pitched a tent over the tomb, and placed there the candles andlamps. and they buried the dead, and the readers sat reciting the ur anat the tomb. The merchants sat with them. and so also did Ghanim the sonof Eiyoob. but he was overcome by bashfulness, saying within himself, Icannot quit them until I have departed with them. They sat listening tothe recitation of the ur an until the period of nightfall, when theservants placed before them the supper and sweetmeats, and they ate tillthey were satisfied, and washed their hands, and resumed their seats.The heart of Ghanim was now troubled with reflections upon hismerchandize, and he was fearful of the thieves, and said within himself,I am a stranger, and suspected of possessing wealth, and if I pass thenight far away from my abode, the thieves will steal the money and theloads. So, fearing for his property, he arose and went forth from amongthe company, asking their leave to depart on account of some businessthat he had to transact, and followed the beaten track until he came tothe gate of the city: but it was then midnight, and he found the gate ofthe city shut, and saw no one coming or going, and heard not a soundsave the barking of the dogs, and the howling of the wolves. whereuponhe exclaimed, There is no strength nor power but in God! I was in fearfor my property, and came hither on account of it, and have found thegate shut, and now I have become in fear for my life! He then returnedto seek for himself a place in which to sleep until the morning: and,finding a private burial place enclosed by four walls, with a palm treewithin it, and a gate way of hard stone, open, he entered it, anddesired to sleep. but sleep came not to him.Tremor and gloom overcame him, thus lying among the tombs, and he roseupon his feet, and, opening the door, looked out, and beheld a lightgleaming in the distance in the direction of the city gate. He advanced afew steps, and saw the light approaching in the way which led to theburial place in which he was taking refuge. whereupon Ghanim feared forhimself, and hastily closed the door, and climbed up into the palm tree,and concealed himself in the midst of its branches. The light continuedto approach the tomb by little and little until it came very near. andas he looked attentively at it, he perceived three black slaves, two ofwhom were bearing a chest, the other having in his hand an adze and alantern. and as they drew near, one of the two slaves who were bearingthe chest said, What aileth thee, O awab? to which theother of the two replied, What aileth thee, O Kafoor? Theformer rejoined, Were we not here at the hour of nightfall, and did wenot leave the door open? Yes, answered the other: what thou sayest istrue. See then, resumed the first speaker, it is shut and barred. Uponthis, the third, who was carrying the adze and light, and whose name wasBakheet, said, How small is your sense! Know ye not thatthe owners of the gardens go forth from Baghdad and repair hither, and,evening overtaking them, enter this place, and shut the door uponthemselves, through fear, lest the blacks, like ourselves, should takethem and roast them and eat them? Thou hast spoken truth,they answered. but there is none among us of less sense thanthyself. Verily, he replied, ye will not believe me until we enter theburial place and find some one in it: and I imagine that, if any one bein it, and have seen the light, he hath betaken himself to the top ofthe palm tree.When Ghanim heard these words of the slave, he said within himself, Howcunning is this slave! May Allah disgrace the blacks for their maliceand villainy! There is no strength nor power but in God, the High, theGreat! What will deliver me from this difficulty? The two who werebearing the chest then said to him who had the adze, Climb over thewall, and open to us the door, O Bakheet. for we are fatigued withcarrying the chest upon our necks: and if thou open to us the door, wewill give thee one of the persons whom we take, and we will fry him forthee excellently, so that not a drop of his fat shall be lost. But hereplied, I am afraid of a thing that my little sense hath suggested tome: let us throw over the chest behind the door. for it is our deposite.They said to him, If we throw it, it will break. I am afraid, herejoined, that there may be, within the tomb, robbers who slay men andsteal their property. for when evening overtaketh them they enter theseplaces to divide what they have taken. O thou of little sense,exclaimed the two others. can they enter here? They then put down thechest, and climbed up the wall, and descended, and opened the door,while the third slave, Bakheet, stood waiting for them with the light,and a basket containing some plaster: after which they seatedthemselves, having closed the door. and one of them said, O my brother,we are tired with walking and taking up and putting down, and openingthe door and shutting it, and it is now midnight, and we have notstrength remaining to open the tomb and to bury the chest. wherefore wewill sit here three hours to rest ourselves, and then rise andaccomplish our business: but each of us shall in the mean time tell hisstory, and relate all that hath happened to him from beginning to end.So the first, who carried the light, told his story. but it was of anature unfit to be here repeated. after which, another ofthe slaves thus began.THE STORY OF THE SLAVE KAFOOR.Know, O my brothers, that I was, at the commencement of my career, a boyof eight years, and I used to tell one lie to the slave merchants everyyear, so that they fell out with each other in consequence, and theslave merchant my master, becoming impatient of me, committed me to thebroker, desiring him to cry, Who will buy this slave with his fault? Hewas therefore asked, What is his fault? and answered, He telleth onelie every year. And a merchant approached the broker, and said to him,How much have they bidden for this slave with his fault? He answered,They have bidden six hundred pieces of silver. Then thou shalt havetwenty for thyself, replied the merchant. So the broker introduced himto the slave merchant, who received from him the money, and the brokerconveyed me to the dwelling of the merchant, and took his brokerage.The merchant clad me in a dress suitable to my condition, and Icontinued with him for the remainder of the year, until the new yearcommenced with prosperity. It was a blessed year, plenteous in theproduce of the earth, and the merchants began to give entertainments,every day one taking his turn to do so, until it was my master's turn togive an entertainment in a garden within the city. So he went, and theother merchants also, and he took for them what they required of foodand other provisions, and they sat eating and drinking and carousingtill noon, when my master wanted something from the house, and said, Oslave, mount the mule, and go to the house, and bring, from thymistress, such a thing, and return quickly.I obeyed, therefore, and went to the house. but when I approached it, Ishrieked out, and shed tears. whereupon the people of the quarterassembled together, old and young. and my master's wife and daughters,hearing my cry, opened the door, and asked me what was the matter. Ianswered them, My master was sitting beneath an old wall, he and hisfriends, and it fell upon them. and when I beheld what happened to them,I mounted the mule, and came in haste to inform you. And when hischildren and wife heard these words, they shrieked, and tore theirclothes, and slapped their faces, and the neighbours came to them. Thenmy master's wife overturned the furniture of the house, one thing uponanother, and pulled down its shelves, and broke its shutters and itswindows, and smeared its walls with mud and indigo, and said to me, Woto thee, O Kafoor! Come hither and help me, and demolish thesecupboards, and smash these vessels and this China ware. So I went toher, and destroyed with her the shelves of the house and all that wasupon them, and its cupboards and what they contained, and went aboutover the terraces and through every place until I had laid waste thewhole, crying all the while, Oh my master! My mistress then went forth,with her face uncovered, and only with her head veil, and the girls andboys went with her, saying to me, O Kafoor, walk on before us, and shewus the place where thy master lieth dead beneath the wall, that we maytake him forth from under the ruins, and carry him in a bier, and bringhim to the house, and convey his corpse in a handsome manner to theburial. So I walked before them, crying, Oh my master! and theyfollowed me with their faces and heads uncovered, crying,Oh our misfortune! Oh our calamity! and there was none among the men,nor among the women, nor among the children, nor a maiden, nor an oldwoman, who did not accompany us. and all of themslapped themselves in the excess of their lamentation. Thus I went withthem through the city. and the people asking the news, they informedthem of that which they had heard from me. and the people exclaimed,There is no strength nor power but in God, the High, the Great! We willgo to the Walee, and acquaint him. And when they arrived before theWalee, they informed him. and he mounted, and took with him labourerswith axes and baskets, and they followed my footsteps, accompanied by acrowd of people.I preceded them, weeping and crying out, and throwing dust upon my head,and slapping my face. and when I came to the party in the garden, and mymaster beheld me, I slapped my face, and exclaimed, Oh my mistress! whowill have pity upon me after my mistress? Would that I had been hersacrifice! When my master, therefore, saw me, he was confounded, hiscountenance became pale, and he said, What aileth thee, O Kafoor, andwhat is this predicament, and what is the news? I answered him, Whenthou sentest me to the house to bring thee what thou wantedst, I wentthither and entered the house, and found that the wall of the saloon hadfallen, and that the whole saloon had tumbled down upon my mistress andher children. And did not thy mistress, said he, escape? I answered,No: not one of them escaped. and the first of them that died was mymistress the elder. But did my youngest daughter escape? he asked. Ianswered, No. And what, said he, hath become of the mule that I ride:is she safe? No, O my master, I answered: for the walls of the houseand the walls of the stable tumbled down upon all that was in the house.even upon the sheep and the geese and the hens, and all of them became amass of flesh beneath the ruins. not one of them escaped. He then saidto me, And thy master the elder? I answered, No: not one escaped. andnow there remains neither house nor inhabitant, nor any trace of them.and as to the sheep and the geese and the hens, the cats and dogs havenow eaten them. And when my master heard my words, the light becamedarkness before his face, and he was no longer master of his senses norof his reason, and was unable to stand upon his feet: he was paralyzed,and the strength of his back failed him, and he rent his clothes andplucked his beard and slapped his face and threw his turban from hishead, and ceased not to slap his face until the blood flowed from it:and he began to cry, Ah! Oh my children! Ah! Oh my wife! Ah! Oh mymisfortune! Unto whom hath happened the like of that which hath happenedto me? The merchants, also, his companions, joined with him in criesand lamentations, and were moved with pity for his case, and rent theirclothes. and my master went forth from the garden, beating himself forthe calamity that had befallen him, and redoubled theblows upon his face, seeming as though he were drunk.And as the party thus went out from the gate of the garden, they behelda great dust, and heard tumultuous cries, and, looking in thatdirection, saw the crowd approaching them. This crowd was the Walee andhis attendants, and a concourse of people who had come to gratify theircuriosity, with the merchant's family behind them, shrieking and cryingwith violent lamentation and excessive grief. and the first who accostedmy master were his wife and children. On beholding these, he wasconfounded, and laughed, and said to them, How are ye. and what hathhappened to you in the house, and what hath befallen you? And when theysaw him, they exclaimed, Praise be to God for thy safety! And they threwthemselves upon him, and his children clung to him, crying out, Oh ourfather! Praise be to God for thy safety, O our father! and his wifesaid to him, Praise be to God who hath shewn us thy face in safety! andshe was stupified, and her reason fled from her at that which shebeheld. She then said to him, How didst thou escape with thyfriends? And how, said he, were ye in the house? We were all well,they answered, in prosperity and health, and no evil hath befallen ourhouse, save that thy slave Kafoor came to us with his head uncovered andhis clothes rent, crying out, Oh my master! Oh my master! and we saidto him, What is the matter, O Kafoor? and he answered, My master wassitting under a wall in the garden, and it fell upon him, and hedied. By Allah, replied my master, he came to me just now, crying, Ohmy mistress! Oh the children of my mistress! and said, My mistress andher children are all dead!He then looked aside, and, seeing me with my turban falling from myhead, while I still cried out and wept violently and threw dust upon myhead, he called out to me: so I approached him, and he said to me, Wo tothee! O malevolent slave! O misbegotten wretch! O thou of accursed race!What events hast thou brought about! But, by Allah, I will strip offthy skin from thy flesh, and cut thy flesh from thy bones! By Allah,replied I, thou canst not do to me anything. for thou boughtest me withmy fault, on this condition, the witnesses testifying that thouboughtest me with my fault, thou knowing it, and it was, that I wasaccustomed to tell one lie every year. and this is but half a lie, andwhen the year is complete I will tell the other half of it. so it willbe an entire lie. But upon this, he cried out at me, O most accursed ofslaves! is this but half a lie? Nay, it is an exceeding calamity! Departfrom me. for thou art free! By Allah, I replied, if thouliberate me, I will not liberate thee until the year be complete, and Itell the remaining half of the lie. and when I have completed it, thentake me to the market, and sell me as thou boughtest me with my fault,and liberate me not. for I have no trade by means of which to procure mysubsistence: this is a legal proposition that I have stated to thee,laid down by the lawyers in the Chapter of Emancipation. Whilewe were thus talking, the crowd approached, with the people of thequarter, women and men, come to mourn, and the Walee with hisattendants: and my master and the other merchants went to the Walee,and acquainted him with the case, and that this was but half a lie. andwhen the people who were present heard this, they were astonished atthis lie, and struck with the utmost wonder. and they cursed andreviled me. while I stood laughing, and saying, How can my master killme when he bought me with this fault?So when my master went to the house, he found it in a state of ruin (andit was I who destroyed the greater part, and broke in it things worth alarge sum of money). and his wife said to him, It was Kafoor who brokethe vessels and the China ware. Upon this, his rage increased, and heexclaimed, By Allah! in my life I have never seen such a misbegottenwretch as this slave. yet he calleth it half a lie! What then would havebeen the result had it been a whole lie! In that case he had destroyed acity, or two cities! Then, in the excess of his rage, he went to theWalee, who inflicted upon me a severe beating, so that I becameinsensible, and swooned away. after which, my master contrived means ofobtaining for me a high price, and I ceased not to excite disturbancesin the places into which I was sold, and was transferred from Emeer toEmeer and from Grandee to Grandee, by sale and purchase, until I enteredthe palace of the Prince of the Faithful, and now my spirit is broken,and my strength hath failed.CONTINUATION OF THE STORY OF GHANIM THE SON OF EIYOOB, THE DISTRACTEDSLAVE OF LOVE.When the other slaves had heard his story, they laughed at it, and saidto him, Verily thou art a villain, the son of a villain: thou hast toldan abominable lie. The first and second then said to the third slave,Relate to us thy story. O sons of my uncle, he replied, all that hathjust been related is nonsense: but my story is long, and this is not atime to tell it. for the morning, O sons of my uncle, is near, andperhaps it may overtake us with this chest still before us, and we shallbe disgraced among the public, and our lives will be lost. haste then towork, and when we have finished, and returned home, I will relate to youmy story. So they put down the light, and dug a trench of the size ofthe chest between four tombs. Kafoor digging, and awab removing theearth in baskets, until they had dug to the depth of half a fathom, whenthey put the chest into the trench, and replaced the earth over it, andwent forth from the enclosure, and, having closed the gate, disappearedfrom before the eyes of Ghanim the son of Eiyoob.When, therefore, they had left the place vacant unto Ghanim, and he knewthat he was alone, his mind became busied respecting the contents of thechest, and he said within himself, What can this chest contain? Hewaited until daybreak gleamed and shone forth, and then descended fromthe palm tree, and removed the earth with his hand until he haduncovered the chest and disengaged it, when he took a stone, and struckwith it the lock, and broke it. and lifting up the cover, he looked in,and beheld a sleeping damsel, stupified with benj, butstill breathing: she was of beautiful and lovely person, and decked withornaments of gold, and necklaces of jewels, worth a kingdom, and of avalue that no money would equal. When Ghanim the son of Eiyoob beheldher, he knew that she had been the object of a plot, and, beingconvinced of this, he pulled her up until he had lifted her out of thechest, and laid her upon her back. and as soon as she scented thebreeze, and the air entered her nostrils and her mouth and throat, shesneezed, and then was choked, and coughed, whereupon there fell from herthroat a round piece of benj, of such potency that if an elephant smeltit he would sleep from one night to another. She then opened her eyes,and, looking round, said, with an eloquent voice, Wo to thee, O wind!Thou neither satisfiest the thirsty, nor cheerest by thy presence thesatisfied with drink! Where is Zahr el Bustan? But no one answered her.Then looking aside, she exclaimed, abeeah! Shejeret ed Durr!Noor el Huda! Nejmet e ub! Art thou awake? Nuzheh!ulweh! areefeh! Speak ye! But no one answered her. And she lookedround about her, and exclaimed, Alas for me, that I am transported tothe tombs! O Thou who knowest the secrets of the breasts, andrecompensest on the day of resurrection! who hath brought me from amongthe curtains and the veils, and placed me amid four tombs?While she was saying all this, Ghanim stood still. but he now said toher, O my mistress, there are neither veils nor palaces nor tombs forthee here: this is none other than thy slave Ghanim the son of Eiyoob,whom the King who is omniscient with respect to hidden things hathimpelled hither that he may deliver thee from these troubles, and thatthe utmost of thy desires may be accomplished unto thee. And he wassilent. and when she became convinced of the truth of the case, sheexclaimed, I testify that there is no deity but God, and I testify thatMoammad is God's Apostle! Then looking towards Ghanim, with her handsplaced upon her breast, she said to him, with a sweet voice, Oauspicious youth, who brought me unto this place? For now I haverecovered my senses. O my mistress, he answered, three eunuchs camebearing this chest: and he related to her all that had happened, andhow the evening had overtaken him, so that he became the means of herpreservation, and that otherwise she had died of suffocation. and heinquired of her respecting her history. O youth, she replied, praise beto God who hath cast me into the hands of one like thee! Rise thereforenow, and put me into the chest, and go forth to the road, and as soon asthou shalt find any one who lets out asses or other beasts, or amuleteer, hire him to transport this chest, and convey me to thy house.and when I am in thy abode it will be well, and I will relate to thee mystory, and acquaint thee with my tale, and good fortune will accrue tothee through my means. So Ghanim rejoiced, and he went forth into thedesert tract.The day had begun to gleam, the sun rose in splendour, and the peoplecome walking forth. and Ghanim hired a man with a mule, and brought himto the burial place. He then lifted the chest, after he had put thedamsel into it, and, with his heart smitten by love for her, proceededwith her, full of joy, for she was a damsel worth ten thousand pieces ofgold, and was decked with ornaments and apparel of enormous value.Scarcely had he found himself at his house when he put down the chest,and opened it, and took forth from it the damsel, who looked, and sawthat the place was a handsome dwelling furnished with variegatedcarpets, and she observed the gay colours and various embellishments,and beheld stuffs packed up, and loads of goods, and other property: soshe knew that he was a great merchant, and a man of wealth. She thenuncovered her face, and looked at him, and observed him to be a handsomeyoung man, and loved him. and she said to him, Bring us something toeat. He answered her, On the head and the eye be thy commands: and wentto the market, and bought a roasted lamb, and a dish of sweetmeat, andprocured some dried fruits, and candles and wine, and the requisiteapparatus for perfumes. Then returning to the house, he took in thethings, and when the damsel saw him, she laughed, and kissed him, andembraced him, and began to caress him, so that the love which he feltincreased, and took entire possession of his heart. They then ate anddrank until the approach of night, and their love was mutual: for theywere both of the same age, and both equal in comeliness. and when thenight approached, the Distracted Slave of Love, Ghanim the son ofEiyoob, rose and lighted the candles and lamps, and the chamberglistened: he then brought forth the wine service, and prepared thetable, and sat down with her. he filling and handing to her, and shefilling and handing to him, while they both toyed and laughed andrecited verses: their gaiety increased, and they were engrossed bymutual love. Extolled be the perfection of the Uniter of Hearts! Thusthey continued until it was near morning, when sleep overcame them, andeach of them slept apart from the other till morning came.Ghanim the son of Eiyoob then arose, and went forth to the market, andbought what was requisite of vegetables and meat and wine and otherprovisions, and brought them to the house. and he again sat with her toeat, and they ate until they were satisfied. after which he brought thewine, and they drank and toyed together till their cheeks reddened andtheir eyes became more intensely black. and Ghanim said, Omy mistress, have compassion on the captive of thy love, and him whomthine eyes have slain. I had remained sound of heart but for thee. Thenhe wept a while. and she replied, O my master, and light of mine eye, ByAllah, I love thee and confide in thee. but I know that thou canst notbe united to me. And what hindereth? said he. She answered, I will thisnight relate to thee my story, that thou mayest accept my excuse. Butthey continued thus a whole month. and after this, one night, whenGhanim was complaining to her of his passion, she said to him, I willnow explain to thee my case, that thou mayest know my dignity, and thatmy secret may be revealed to thee, and my excuse become manifest tothee. He replied, Well. And she took hold of a band which confined apart of her dress, and said to him, O my master, read what is on thisborder. So he took the border in his hand, and looked at it, and foundworked upon it in gold, I am thine, and thou art mine, O descendant ofthe Prophet's Uncle. And when he had read this, he let fallhis hand, and said to her, Reveal to me thy history. She answered,Well: and thus began: Know that I am a favourite slave of the Prince of the Faithful, and myname is oot el uloob. The Prince of the Faithful, afterhe had reared me in his palace, and I had grown up, observed myqualities, and the beauty and loveliness with which my Lord had endowedme, and loved me excessively: he took me and lodged me in a privateapartment, and appointed me ten female slaves to serve me, and then gaveme those ornaments which thou seest with me. After this, the Khaleefehwent forth one day on a journey to one of the surrounding provinces, andthe lady Zubeydeh came to one of the female slaves who were in myservice, and said, When thy mistress oot el uloob sleepeth, put thispiece of benj into her nose and her drink, and thou shalt receive fromme a sum of money that will satisfy thee. The slave replied, Mostwillingly: and she received the benj from her, rejoicing on account ofthe money, and because she had been originally Zubeydeh's slave. and sheinsinuated the benj into me, whereupon I fell upon the floor, with myhead bent down to my feet, and seemed to be in another world. And whenshe could devise no other stratagem, she put me into that chest, andprivily summoned the black slaves, and, after having given presents tothem and to the door keepers, sent me with the black slaves on the nightwhen thou wast reposing at the top of the palm tree: and they did withme as thou sawest, and my deliverance was effected through thy means.Then thou broughtest me unto this place, where thou hast treated me withthe utmost kindness. This is my story. and I know not what hath happenedto the Khaleefeh during my absence. Know, therefore, my dignity. anddivulge not my case.When Ghanim the son of Eiyoob heard these words of oot el uloob, anddiscovered that she was the favourite of the Khaleefeh, he drew back, inhis awe of the Khaleefeh, and sat alone at one side of the chamber,blaming himself, and reflecting upon his situation, perplexed by love ofher to whom he could not be united. and he wept from the violence of hisdesire, and the fierceness of his passion and distraction, and began tocomplain of fortune and its injustice. Extolled be the perfection ofHim who causeth the hearts of the generous to be troubled with love, andendueth not the mean with so much of it as equalleth the weight of agrain! And upon this, oot el uloob rose to him, and embraced andkissed him, and, her heart being entirely captivated by his love, sherevealed what she had hidden of the extent of her passion, and encircledhis neck with her arms, and kissed him again. but he withdrew from herembrace, in his fear of the Khaleefeh. They then conversed a while,drowned in the sea of mutual love, and so remained until day, whenGhanim arose, and went forth to the market as usual, and procured whatwas requisite, and, returning to the house, found oot el uloobweeping: but as soon as she beheld him, she ceased from her tears, andsmiled, and said to him, Thou hast made me desolate by thine absence, Obeloved of my heart! By Allah, this hour during which thou hast beenaway from me hath appeared as a year. for I cannot endure thyseparation. and see, I have thus shewn thee my state, through theviolence of my passion. Arise therefore now, and mind not what hathhappened, but take me as thy wife. But he replied, I seek refuge withAllah! This is a thing that cannot be. How should the dog sit in theplace of the lion? What belongeth to my lord is forbidden me toapproach. He then tore himself from her, and sat apart. and sheincreased in love through his refusal. In this manner they passed threelong months. and whenever she made any advances to him he withdrew fromher, and said, Whatever belongeth to the master is forbidden to theslave. Such was the case of the Distracted Slave of Love, Ghanim theson of Eiyoob.Meanwhile, Zubeydeh, during the absence of the Khaleefeh, having actedthus with oot el uloob, became perplexed, saying within herself, Whatshall I say to the Khaleefeh when he cometh and inquireth respectingher. and what shall be my answer to him? She then called for an oldwoman who resided with her, and acquainted her with her secret, and saidto her, What shall I do, now that oot el uloob is no more? The oldwoman answered, when she understood the affair, Know, O my mistress,that the return of the Khaleefeh is near. but I will send to acarpenter, and desire him to make a wooden image of a corpse, and theyshall dig for it a grave, and thou shalt light candles and lamps aroundit, and command every one who is in the palace to wear black,and order thy female slaves and eunuchs, as soon as they know of theKhaleefeh's return from his journey, to raise lamentations in thevestibules, and when he enters and asks the news, they shall answer him,oot el uloob is dead. and may God abundantly compensate thee for theloss of her! and from the esteem with which she was regarded by ourmistress, she hath buried her in her own palace. So when he heareththis, he will weep, and the event will distress him. Then he will causethe readers to sit up by night at her tomb to perform recitations of theur an: and if he say within himself, Surely the daughter of my uncle,through her jealousy, hath been led to destroy oot el uloob, or thedistraction of love overpower him, and he give orders to take her forthfrom the tomb, fear not from that. for if they dig down to the image inthe form of a human being, and take it forth, shrouded in costlygrave clothes, and the Khaleefeh desire to remove the grave clothes fromit, to behold her, do thou prevent him, and the fear of the world tocome will withhold him. and do thou say to him, To behold her corpseuncovered is unlawful. Then he will believe her death, and will returnher image to its place, and thank thee for thy conduct, and thou shaltescape, if it please God, from this difficulty. When the lady Zubeydeh,therefore, heard what she said, she approved it, and bestowed upon her adress of honour, and commanded her to do this, having given her a sum ofmoney. So the old woman set about the business immediately, and orderedthe carpenter to make for her an image as above described. and when itwas finished, she brought it to the lady Zubeydeh, and she shrouded it,and lighted the candles and lamps, and spread the carpets around thetomb, and clad herself in black, ordering the female slaves to do thesame. and the news was spread through the palace, that oot el uloobhad died.Some time after this, the Khaleefeh returned from his journey, and wentup to his palace. but his mind was occupied only with oot el uloob.and seeing the pages and eunuchs and female slaves all clad in black,his heart was agitated. and when he entered the palace of the ladyZubeydeh, and beheld her also clad in black, he inquired the reason ofit, and they informed him of the death of oot el uloob. Upon hearingthis, he fell down in a swoon. and when he recovered, he asked where washer tomb. and the lady Zubeydeh answered, Know, O Prince of theFaithful, that, on account of the esteem in which she was held by me, Iburied her in my palace. So the Khaleefeh, entering the palace in histravelling dress, proceeded to visit the tomb of oot el uloob, andfound the carpets spread, and the candles and lamps lighted. and when hebeheld this, he thanked her for what she had done. But afterwards hebecame perplexed, and wavered a while between belief and disbelief,until suspicion overcame him, and he gave orders to open the tomb and totake her out: when, however, he saw the grave clothes, and was about toremove them that he might behold her, he feared God (whose name beexalted!), and the old woman said, Restore her to her place. Thenimmediately the Khaleefeh commanded to bring the professors of religionand law, and the readers, and they performed recitations of the whole ofthe ur an at her tomb, while he sat by the side of it weeping until hebecame insensible.He continued to frequent the tomb for the space of a month. after whichit happened that he entered the areem, after the emeers and wezeers haddispersed from before him to their houses, and he slept a while, and afemale slave sat at his head, and another at his feet. and after sleephad overcome him he awoke, and opened his eyes, and heard the damsel whowas at his head say to her who was at his feet, Wo to thee, OKheyzuran! Wherefore, O aeeb? said the other. Our lord,rejoined the first, is ignorant of what hath happened. so he sitteth upby night at a tomb in which there is nothing but a carved image, thework of the carpenter. And what then, asked the other damsel, hathbefallen oot el uloob? Her companion answered, Know that our mistressZubeydeh sent some benj by a female slave, and she stupified her withit, and when the benj had taken effect upon her, she put her in a chest,and sent her away with awab and Kafoor, commanding them to throw herinto the tomb. Upon this, Kheyzuran said, Wo to thee, O aeeb! Is notthe lady oot el uloob dead? Heaven preserve her youth from death!answered aeeb: I heard the lady Zubeydeh say that oot el uloob waswith a young merchant named Ghanim of Damascus, and that she had beenwith him, including this day, four months. and our lord here weepeth andpasseth sleepless nights at a tomb in which there is no corpse. Thusthey conversed together, while the Khaleefeh heard their words. andwhen they had finished their conversation, and he had become acquaintedwith the event, that this tomb was a false one, and that oot el uloobhad been with Ghanim the son of Eiyoob for the space of four months, hewas violently incensed, and arose, and summoned the emeers of his court.whereupon the Wezeer Jaafar El Barmekee presented himself and kissed theground before him, and the Khaleefeh said to him, in anger, Descend, OJaafar, with a body of men, and inquire for the house of Ghanim the sonof Eiyoob, and assault it suddenly, and bring him hither with my femaleslave oot el uloob. and I will assuredly torture him.Jaafar replied, I hear and obey. and he went forth with his attendants,the Walee also accompanying him, and they proceeded until they arrivedat Ghanim's house. Ghanim had just before gone out and brought a pot ofmeat, and was about to stretch forth his hand to eat of it withoot el uloob, when she looked out, and found that the house was beseton all sides, and the Wezeer and the Walee and the officers of violenceand the memlooks with drawn swords were surrounding it as the blacksurrounds the pupil of the eye. and upon this she knew that tidings ofher situation had reached the ears of the Khaleefeh her lord, and shemade sure of destruction. her countenance became pale, and her beautychanged, and, looking towards Ghanim, she said to him, O my beloved,save thyself! How shall I do, said he, and whither shall I flee, whenmy wealth and means of subsistence are in this house? But she answered,Delay not, lest thou perish, and thy wealth also be lost. O mymistress, and light of mine eye, rejoined he, how can I contrive to goforth when they are surrounding the house? Fear not, she answered: andshe pulled off his clothes, and clad him in worn out, ragged garments,and, taking the pot that had contained the meat, placed it upon hishead, and put in it a little bread and a saucer of meat, and said tohim, Go forth by the help of this stratagem, and thou hast nothing tofear with respect to me, for I know what I am able to do with theKhaleefeh. When Ghanim, therefore, heard the words of oot el uloob,and the advice which she gave him, he went forth through the midst ofthem, bearing the pot, and Providence protected him so that he escapedfrom the snares and injuries which menaced him, by the blessing of hisgood conscience.And when the Wezeer Jaafar arrived at the house, he dismounted from hishorse, and entered, and looked at oot el uloob, who had adornedherself, and filled a chest with gold and ornaments and jewels andrarities, such as were light to carry and of great value. and whenJaafar came in to her, she rose upon her feet, and kissed the groundbefore him, saying to him, O my master, the Pen hath written what Godhath decreed. But Jaafar, when he beheld her situation,replied, By Allah, O my mistress, he gave me no order but to arrestGhanim the son of Eiyoob. And she said, Know that he hath packed up somebales of merchandise, and gone with them to Damascus, and I know nothingmore than this. and I request thee to take care of this chest for me,and to convey it to the palace of the Prince of the Faithful. So Jaafaranswered, I hear and obey: and he took the chest, and gave orders thatit should be conveyed, together with oot el uloob, to the palace ofthe Khaleefeh, treating her with honour and respect. This took placeafter they had plundered the house of Ghanim. and they went to theKhaleefeh, and Jaafar related to him all that had happened. whereuponthe Khaleefeh appointed to oot el uloob a dark chamber, and therelodged her, commissioning an old woman to serve her. for he imaginedthat Ghanim had acted dishonestly towards her.He then wrote a letter to the Emeer Moammad the son of SuleymanEz Zeynee, who was viceroy of Damascus, containing as follows: As soonas this letter cometh to thy hands, thou shalt arrest Ghanim the son ofEiyoob, and send him unto me. So when the mandate was brought to him,he kissed it, and put it upon his head, and caused it to be proclaimedthrough the market street, Whosoever desireth to plunder, let him repairto the house of Ghanim the son of Eiyoob. And they came to the house,and found that the mother of Ghanim, and his sister, had made for them atomb, and sat by it weeping. and they laid hold upon them, and plunderedthe house, and the mother and sister knew not the cause: and when theybrought them before the Sulan, he inquired of themrespecting Ghanim the son of Eiyoob. and they answered him, For thespace of a year we have obtained no tidings of him. And they restoredthem to their place.In the mean time, Ghanim the son of Eiyoob, the Distracted Slave ofLove, when his wealth had been seized, was perplexed, and began to weepfor himself so as to break his heart. He walked on, and ceased not onhis way to the close of day, suffering from excessive hunger andfatigue, until he arrived at a village, where he entered a mosque, andseated himself upon a round mat, and he leaned his backagainst one of the walls of the building, and then threw himself down,under the influence of extreme hunger and weariness. There he remaineduntil the morning, his heart palpitating from want of food. verminattacked his body, his breath became fetid, and he was altogetherchanged. and the people of that village, coming to perform themorning prayers, found him lying there sick through want of food, yetexhibiting evident traces of former affluence. and when they approachedhim, they found him cold and hungry. They clad him, therefore, with anold garment having ragged sleeves, and said to him, Whence art thou, Ostranger, and what is the cause of thine infirmity? And Ghanim openedhis eyes and looked at them and wept. but he returned them no answer.Then one of them, knowing the violence of his hunger, went and broughthim a saucer of honey and two cakes of bread, and he ate, while they sataround him until the sun rose, when they departed to their severaloccupations. In this state he remained among them for a month, and hisinfirmity and disease increased. so the people, commiserating him,consulted together respecting his case, and agreed to transport him tothe hospital at Baghdad.Now while they were thus conversing, lo, two women, beggars, came in tohim. and they were his mother and sister. and when he beheld them, hegave them the bread that was at his head, and they slept by him the nextnight. but he knew them not. And on the following day, the people of thevillage came to him, bringing a camel, and said to its owner, Conveythis sick person on the camel, and when thou hast arrived at Baghdad,put him down at the door of the hospital: perhaps he may recover hishealth, and thou wilt receive a recompense. He answered them, I hear andobey. So they brought forth Ghanim the son of Eiyoob from the mosque,and placed him, with the round mat upon which he was sleeping, on thecamel. and his mother and sister came to look at him among the otherpeople. but they knew him not. Then observing him attentively, theysaid, Verily he resembleth our Ghanim! Can he be this sick person ornot? But as to Ghanim, he awoke not until he was mounted on the camel,and he began to weep and moan. and the people of the village saw hismother and sister weeping for him, though they did not know him. Thenhis mother and sister journeyed onwards to Baghdad, while thecamel driver also proceeded without stopping until he had depositedGhanim at the door of the hospital, when he took his camel, andreturned.Ghanim remained lying there until the morning. and when the people beganto pass along the street, they beheld him. He had become so emaciatedthat his form resembled that of a toothpick, and the people ceased notto gaze at him until the Sheykh of the market came and repelled themfrom him, and said, I will gain Paradise by means of this poor person.for if they take him into the hospital they will kill him in one day. Hethen ordered his young men to carry him, and they conveyed him to hishouse, where he spread for him a new bed, and put for him a new cushion,and said to his wife, Serve him faithfully. She replied, On thehead: and she tucked up her sleeves, and, having heated for him somewater, washed his hands and feet and body, and clothed him in a vest ofone of her female slaves. She then gave him to drink a cup of wine, andsprinkled rose water upon him: so he recovered his senses. and heremembered his beloved, oot el uloob, and his anguish increased. Thusdid it happen to Ghanim.Now as to oot el uloob, when the Khaleefeh, incensed against her,had lodged her in the dark chamber, she remained there in the same statefor eighty days. and it happened that the Khaleefeh passed one day bythat place, and heard her reciting verses. and when she had finished herrecitation of them, she exclaimed, O my beloved! O Ghanim! How kind artthou, and how chaste is thy disposition! Thou hast acted with kindnessunto him who hath injured thee, and hast guarded the honour of him whohath violated thine, and hast protected his areem and he hath enslavedboth thee and thy family. but thou wilt assuredly stand, with the Princeof the Faithful, before a Just Judge, and thou wilt obtain justiceagainst him on the day when the judge shall be God. and the witnesses,the angels! And when the Khaleefeh heard her words, and understood hercomplaint, he knew that she was injured. and he entered his palace, andsent the eunuch to her, and when she came before him she hung down herhead, with weeping eye, and sorrowful heart. and he said to her, Ooot el uloob, I see that thou complainest of my oppression, andaccusest me of tyranny, and thinkest that I have injured him who hathacted kindly unto me. Who then is he who hath guarded my honour and Ihave violated his. and who hath protected my areem and I have enslavedhis? She answered him, Ghanim the son of Eiyoob. for hehath not attempted any dishonest action towards me, by thy beneficence,O Prince of the Faithful! Upon this the Khaleefeh exclaimed, There isno strength nor power but in God! and then added, O oot el uloob,desire of me what thou wilt, and I will grant thy wish. So she replied,I desire of thee my beloved, Ghanim the son of Eiyoob. And when he heardher words, he said, I will cause him to be brought hither, if it be thewill of God, in honour. O Prince of the Faithful, she rejoined, whenthou shalt have caused him to be brought, wilt thou present me to him?He answered, When I have had him brought, I will present thee to him,the present of a generous man who will not revoke his gift. So she said,O Prince of the Faithful, permit me to search about for him: perhaps Godmay unite me with him. And he replied, Do as thou wilt.Upon this she rejoiced, and went forth, taking with her a thousandpieces of gold and visited the sheykhs, and gave alms for the sake ofGhanim: and on the following day she went to the market ofthe merchants, and gave to the chief of the market some money, saying tohim, Bestow it in alms upon the strangers. Then again, in the followingweek, she went forth, taking with her a thousand pieces of gold, and,entering the market of the goldsmiths and jewellers, summoned the chiefof the market, and he came, and she gave him the thousand pieces ofgold, and said to him, Bestow it in alms upon the strangers: whereuponthe chief, who was the Sheykh of the market before mentioned, looked ather, and said to her, Wilt thou go with me to my house, to look at ayoung stranger there, and see how elegant he is, and how perfectlycharming? For it is probable that he is Ghanim the son of Eiyoob, theDistracted Slave of Love. But the chief had no knowledge of him, andimagined that he was a poor person involved in debt, whose wealth hadbeen taken from him, or a lover parted from his beloved. And when sheheard his words, her heart beat, and her affections were engrossed byhim, and she answered, Send with me some one to conduct me to thy house.So he sent with her a young boy, who conducted her to the house wherethe stranger was lodged, and she thanked him for doing so. and when sheentered the house, and saluted the chief's wife, the latter arose, andkissed the ground before her. for she knew her. Then oot el uloob saidto her, Where is the sick person who is with you? And she wept, andanswered, Here he is, O my mistress: but he is of a respectable family,and exhibiteth traces of former affluence. And oot el uloob lookedtowards the bed upon which he was lying, and, regarding him narrowly,beheld him as though he were Ghanim himself. but his condition waschanged, and he had become so emaciated that he resembled a toothpick,and the truth of his case was disguised from her, so that she did notdiscover him to be the person whom she sought. but she was moved withcompassion for him, and she wept, and exclaimed, Verily, strangers areobjects of pity, though they be emeers in their own countries! She thenordered for him supplies of wine and medicines, and sat at his head awhile, and mounted, and returned to her palace. and she continued to goforth to every market for the purpose of searching for Ghanim.Soon after, the chief of the market brought the mother of Ghanim, andhis sister Fitneh, and went with them to oot el uloob, and said toher, O most charitable lady, there have entered our city this day awoman and a girl of respectable origin, bearing evident traces of formeraffluence, but they are clad in garments of hair cloth, and each of themhath a wallet hung to her neck, and their eyes are weeping, and theirhearts sorrowful: so I have brought them unto thee, that thou mayestgive them refuge, and preserve them from the disgrace of beggary. forthey are not persons suited to ask alms of the sordid. and if it pleaseGod, we shall enter Paradise by their means. By Allah, O my master,she replied, thou hast made me long to behold them! Where are they?Order them to come in. So, upon this, Fitneh and her mother came in tooot el uloob, who, when she saw them, and observed that they were bothdistinguished by beauty, wept for them, and said, By Allah, they arepersons of an affluent family, and traces of wealth are conspicuous intheir appearance. O my mistress, replied the chief of the market, welove the poor and indigent for the sake of future recompense.and probably the extortioners have oppressed these two persons, andplundered them of their wealth, and ruined their houses. Then these twofemales wept violently, and, remembering Ghanim the son of Eiyoob, theDistracted Slave of Love, their wailing increased, and oot el uloobwept with them. and the mother of Ghanim exclaimed, We pray God to uniteus with him whom we seek, and he is my son Ghanim the son of Eiyoob.When oot el uloob, therefore, heard these words, she knew that thiswoman was the mother of her beloved, and that the other was his sister,and she wept until she fell down in a swoon. and when she recovered, sheapproached them, and said to them, Ye have nothing to fear. for this dayis the first of your prosperity, and the last of your adversity:therefore grieve not. She then ordered the chief of the market to takethem to his house, and to let his wife conduct them into the bath, andattire them in handsome clothing, and take care of them, and treat themwith the utmost honour. and she gave him a sum of money.Then, on the following day, oot el uloob mounted and went again to thehouse of the chief of the market, and went in to visit his wife, whorose to her, and kissed the ground before her, and thanked her for hercharity. and she saw that his wife had conducted the mother of Ghanim,and his sister, to the bath, and taken off their former clothes, andthat the traces of their original affluence had become more conspicuousin consequence. and she sat a while conversing with them. after whichshe asked the wife of the chief of the market respecting the sick personwho was with her. She answered, He is in the same state. Andoot el uloob said, Arise, and let us look at him and visit him. Sothey both arose, with Ghanim's mother and sister, and went in to him,and seated themselves by him. and when Ghanim the son of Eiyoob, theDistracted Slave of Love, heard one of them mention oot el uloob,emaciated as he was in body and limbs, his soul returned to him, and heraised his head from the pillow, and called out, O oot el uloob! Shelooked at him, therefore, and knew him, and cried, saying, Yes, O mybeloved! He then said to her, Draw near to me. And she asked him, Artthou Ghanim the son of Eiyoob, the Distracted Slave of Love? He answeredher, Yes: I am he. And upon this, she fell down in a swoon. and when hissister and his mother heard their words, they cried out, Oh, ourjoy! and in like manner fainted. And when they recovered,oot el uloob said to Ghanim, Praise be to God who hath united us withthee and with thy mother and sister! Then, approaching him, she relatedto him all that had happened to her with the Khaleefeh, adding, I saidto him, I have declared to thee the truth, O Prince of theFaithful: and he believed my words, and approved thee. and he is nowdesiring to see thee. And she said to him, The Khaleefeh hath given meto thee: whereupon he was filled with the utmost joy: andoot el uloob said to them all, Quit not this place until I come again.She then arose immediately, and departed to her palace, and removedthence the chest that she had brought from Ghanim's house, and tookforth from it some pieces of gold, which she gave to the chief of themarket, saying to him, Take these pieces of gold, and buy for each ofthem four complete suits of dress of the best kinds of stuff, and twentyhandkerchiefs, and whatever else they require. And after this, sheconducted them to the bath, and gave orders to wash them, and preparedfor them boiled meats, and infusion of galangal, and apple water, afterthey had come forth from the bath and dressed themselves. For three daysshe remained with them, feeding them with fowls and with boiled meats,and giving them sherbet of refined sugar to drink. and after the threedays their spirits returned to them. Then she conducted them again tothe bath, and they came forth, and she changed their clothes, and,leaving them in the house of the chief of the market, went to theKhaleefeh, and kissed the ground before him, and related to him thestory, telling him that her master, Ghanim the son of Eiyoob, theDistracted Slave of Love, had come, and that his mother and sister alsohad arrived. When the Khaleefeh, therefore, heard these words ofoot el uloob, he said to the eunuchs, Bring hither to me Ghanim. AndJaafar went down with them to bring him: but oot el uloob had gonebefore him. and she went in unto Ghanim, and said to him, The Khaleefehhath sent to thee to bring thee before him: have a care then to displayeloquence of tongue, and firmness of heart, and sweetness of speech. Andshe attired him in a magnificent dress, and gave him pieces of gold inabundance, saying to him, Bestow plentifully upon the domestics of theKhaleefeh as thou goest in to him. And lo, Jaafar approached him,mounted upon his mule, and Ghanim advanced to meet him, and greeted himwith a prayer for long life, kissing the ground before him.The planet of his prosperity had appeared, and the star of his glory hadrisen aloft, and Jaafar took him, and they proceeded until they enteredinto the presence of the Prince of the Faithful. and when Ghanim camebefore him, he looked towards the wezeers and emeers and chamberlainsand lieutenants and the other officers of the court, and the warriours,and, being eloquent of tongue, firm of heart, delicate in the style ofhis language, and pleasing in the allusions it conveyed, he hung downhis head towards the ground, and then looked towards the Khaleefeh, andaddressed him in a series of complimentary verses. And when he hadfinished his recitation, the Khaleefeh was delighted with the graces ofhis person, and pleased with the eloquence of his tongue and thesweetness of his speech. and he said to him, Approach me. He thereforeapproached him, and the Khaleefeh said to him, Explain to me thy tale,and acquaint me with the truth of thy history. So Ghanim sat, andrelated to the Khaleefeh all that had happened to him from beginning toend. and when the Khaleefeh knew that he spoke truth, he bestowed uponhim a dress of honour, and admitted him into his favour, and said tohim, Acquit me of responsibility. And he did so, and saidto him, O Prince of the Faithful, the slave and all that his handspossess belong to his master: and the Khaleefeh rejoiced. He then gaveorders to appropriate a palace to him exclusively, and appointed himabundant pensions and allowances, and removed to him his mother and hissister. And the Khaleefeh, hearing that his sister Fitneh was, in beauty(as her name imported), a temptation, demanded her of him in marriage.Ghanim therefore replied, She is thy handmaid, and I am thymemlook. And the Khaleefeh thanked him, and gave him a hundred thousandpieces of gold, and summoned the aee and witnesses, andthey performed the marriage contract. Then he and Ghanim visited theirwives on the same day, the Khaleefeh going to Fitneh, and Ghanim the sonof Eiyoob to oot el uloob. and on the following morning, the Khaleefehordered that all that had happened to Ghanim, from first to last, shouldbe committed to writing and inserted in the records, that his posteritymight consider it, and wonder at the disposals of destiny, and committheir affairs unto the Creator of the night and the day.