THE STORY OF THE MERCHANT AND THE JINNEE.It has been related to me, O happy King, said Shahrazad, that there wasa certain merchant who had great wealth, and traded extensively withsurrounding countries. and one day he mounted his horse, and journeyedto a neighbouring country to collect what was due to him, and, the heatoppressing him, he sat under a tree, in a garden, and put hishand into his saddle bag, and ate a morsel of bread and a datewhich were among his provisions. Having eaten the date, he threw asidethe stone, and immediately there appeared before him an'Efreet, of enormous height, who, holding a drawn sword in his hand,approached him, and said, Rise, that I may kill thee, as thou hastkilled my son. The merchant asked him, How have I killed thy son? Heanswered, When thou atest the date, and threwest aside the stone, itstruck my son upon the chest, and, as fate had decreed againsthim, he instantly died.The merchant, on hearing these words, exclaimed, Verily to Godwe belong, and verily to Him we must return! There is no strength norpower but in God, the High, the Great! If I killed him, I did it notintentionally, but without knowing it. and I trust in thee that thouwilt pardon me. The Jinnee answered, Thy death is indispensable, asthou hast killed my son: and so saying, he dragged him, and threw himon the ground, and raised his arm to strike him with the sword. Themerchant, upon this, wept bitterly, and said to the Jinnee, I commit myaffair unto God, for no one can avoid what He hath decreed: and hecontinued his lamentation, repeating the following verses: Time consists of two days. this, bright. and that, gloomy: and life,of two moieties. this, safe. and that, fearful.Say to him who hath taunted us on account of misfortunes, Doth fortuneoppose any but the eminent?Dost thou not observe that corpses float upon the sea, whilethe precious pearls remain in its furthest depths?When the hands of time play with us, misfortune is imparted to us byits protracted kiss.In the heaven are stars that cannot be numbered. but none is eclipsedsave the sun and the moon.How many green and dry trees are on the earth. but none is assailedwith stones save that which beareth fruit!Thou thoughtest well of the days when they went well with thee,and fearedst not the evil that destiny was bringing. When he had finished reciting these verses, the Jinnee said to him,Spare thy words, for thy death is unavoidable.Then said the merchant, Know, O 'Efreet, that I have debts to pay, and Ihave much property, and children, and a wife, and I have pledges also inmy possession: let me, therefore, go back to my house, and give to everyone his due, and then I will return to thee: I bind myself by a vow andcovenant that I will return to thee, and thou shalt do what thou wilt.and God is witness of what I say. Upon this, the Jinnee accepted hiscovenant, and liberated him. granting him a respite until the expirationof the year.The merchant, therefore, returned to his town, accomplished all that wasupon his mind to do, paid every one what he owed him, and informed hiswife and children of the event which had befallen him. upon hearingwhich, they and all his family and women wept. He appointed a guardianover his children, and remained with his family until the end of theyear. when he took his grave clothes under his arm, badefarewell to his household and neighbours, and all his relations, andwent forth, in spite of himself. his family raising cries oflamentation, and shrieking.He proceeded until he arrived at the garden before mentioned. and it wasthe first day of the new year. and as he sat, weeping for the calamitywhich he expected soon to befall him, a sheykh, advanced inyears, approached him, leading a gazelle with a chain attached to itsneck. This sheykh saluted the merchant, wishing him a long life, andsaid to him, What is the reason of thy sitting alone in this place,seeing that it is a resort of the Jinn? The merchant therefore informedhim of what had befallen him with the 'Efreet, and of the cause of hissitting there. at which the sheykh, the owner of the gazelle, wasastonished, and said, By Allah, O my brother, thy faithfulness is great,and thy story is wonderful! if it were engraved upon the intellect, itwould be a lesson to him who would be admonished! And he sat down byhis side, and said, By Allah, O my brother, I will not quit this placeuntil I see what will happen unto thee with this 'Efreet. So he satdown, and conversed with him. And the merchant became almost senseless.fear entered him, and terror, and violent grief, and excessive anxiety.And as the owner of the gazelle sat by his side, lo, a second sheykhapproached them, with two black hounds, and inquired of them, aftersaluting them, the reason of their sitting in that place, seeing that itwas a resort of the Jann: and they told him the story frombeginning to end. And he had hardly sat down when there approached thema third sheykh, with a dapple mule. and he asked them the same question,which was answered in the same manner.Immediately after, the dust was agitated, and became an enormousrevolving pillar, approaching them from the midst of the desert. andthis dust subsided, and behold, the Jinnee, with a drawn sword in hishand. his eyes casting forth sparks of fire. He came to them, anddragged from them the merchant, and said to him, Rise, that I may killthee, as thou killedst my son, the vital spirit of my heart. And themerchant wailed and wept. and the three sheykhs also manifested theirsorrow by weeping and crying aloud and wailing: but the first sheykh,who was the owner of the gazelle, recovering his self possession, kissedthe hand of the 'Efreet, and said to him, O thou Jinnee, and crown ofthe kings of the Jann, if I relate to thee the story of myself and thisgazelle, and thou find it to be wonderful, and more so than theadventure of this merchant, wilt thou give up to me a third of thyclaim to his blood? He answered, Yes, O sheykh. if thou relate to me thestory, and I find it to be as thou hast said, I will give up to thee athird of my claim to his blood.