THE THIRTY SECOND.THE STORY OF THE HUMPBACK.There was, in ancient times, in the city of El Barah, atailor who enjoyed an ample income, and was fond of sport and merriment.He was in the habit of going out occasionally with his wife, that theymight amuse themselves with strange and diverting scenes. and one daythey went forth in the afternoon, and, returning home in theevening, met a humpbacked man, whose aspect was such as to excitelaughter in the angry, and to dispel anxiety and grief: so theyapproached him to enjoy the pleasure of gazing at him, and invited himto return with them to their house, and to join with them in a carousalthat night.He assented to their proposal. and after he had gone with them to thehouse, the tailor went out to the market. night having then approached.He bought some dried fish, and bread and limes and sweetmeat, and,returning with them, placed the fish before the humpback and they satdown to eat. and the tailor's wife took a large piece of fish, andcrammed the humpback with it, and, closing his mouth with her hand,said, By Allah, thou shalt not swallow it but by gulping it at once, andI will not give thee time to chew it. He therefore swallowed it. but itcontained a large and sharp bone, which stuck across in his throat, hisdestiny having so determined, and he expired. The tailor exclaimed,There is no strength nor power but in God the High, the Great! Alas,that this poor creature should not have died but in this manner by ourhands! Wherefore this idling? exclaimed the woman. And what can I do?asked her husband. Arise she answered, and take him in thy bosom, andcover him with a silk napkin: I will go out first and do thou follow me,this very night and say, This is my son, and this is his mother. and weare going to convey him to the physician, that he may give him somemedicine.No sooner had the tailor heard these words than he arose, and took thehumpback in his bosom. His wife, accompanying him, exclaimed, O mychild! may Allah preserve thee! Where is the part in which thou feelestpain. and where hath this small pox attacked thee? So every one who sawthem said, They are conveying a child smitten with the small pox. Thusthey proceeded, inquiring as they went, for the abode of the physician.and the people directed them to the house of a physician who was a Jew.and they knocked at the door, and there came down to them a blackslave girl, who opened the door, and beheld a man carrying (as sheimagined) a child, and attended by its mother. and she said, What isyour business? We have a child here answered the tailor's wife, and wewant the physician to see him: take, then, this quarter of a piece ofgold, and give it to thy master, and let him come down and see my son.for he is ill. The girl, therefore, went up, and the tailor's wife,entering the vestibule, said to her husband, Leave the humpback here,and let us take ourselves away. And the tailor, accordingly, set him upagainst the wall, and went out with his wife.The slave girl, meanwhile, went in to the Jew, and said to him, Below,in the house, is a sick person, with a woman and a man: and they havegiven me a quarter of a piece of gold for thee, that thou mayestprescribe for them what may suit his case. And when the Jew saw thequarter of a piece of gold, he rejoiced, and, rising in haste, went downin the dark. and in doing so, his foot struck against the lifelesshumpback. O Ezra! he exclaimed O Heavens and the Ten Commandments! OAaron, and Joshua son of Nun! It seemeth that I have stumbled againstthis sick person, and he hath fallen down the stairs and died! And howshall I go forth with one killed from my house? O Ezra'sass! He then raised him, and took him up from the court ofthe house to his wife, and acquainted her with the accident. And whysittest thou here idle? said she. for if thou remain thus until daybreakour lives will be lost: let me and thee, then, take him up to theterrace, and throw him into the house of our neighbour the Muslim. forhe is the steward of the Sulan's kitchen, and often do the cats come tohis house, and eat of the food which they find there. as dothe mice too: and if he remain there for a night, the dogs will comedown to him from the terraces and eat him up entirely. So theJew and his wife went up, carrying the humpback, and let him down by hishands and feet to the pavement. placing him against the wall. whichhaving done, they descended.Not long had the humpback been thus deposited when the steward returnedto his house, and opened the door, and, going up with a lighted candlein his hand, found a son of Adam standing in the corner next thekitchen. upon which he exclaimed, What is this? By Allah, the thief thathath stolen our goods is none other than a son of Adam, who taketh whathe findeth of flesh or grease, even though I keep it concealed from thecats and the dogs. and if I killed all the cats and dogs of the quarterit would be of no use. for he cometh down from the terraces! And sosaying, he took up a great mallet, and struck him with it, and then,drawing close to him, gave him a second blow with it upon the chest,when the humpback fell down, and he found that he was dead. whereupon hegrieved, and said, There is no strength nor power but in God! And hefeared for himself, and exclaimed, Curse upon the grease and the flesh,and upon this night, in which the destiny of this man hath beenaccomplished by my hand! Then, looking upon him, and perceiving that hewas a humpback, he said, Is it not enough that thou art humpbacked, butmust thou also be a robber, and steal the flesh and the grease? OProtector, cover me with thy gracious shelter! And he lifted him uponhis shoulders, and descended, and went forth from his house, towards theclose of the night, and stopped not until he had conveyed him to thecommencement of the market street, where he placed him upon his feet bythe side of a shop at the entrance of a lane, and there left him andretired.Soon after, there came a Christian, the Sulan's broker, who, in a stateof intoxication, had come forth to visit the bath. and he advanced,staggering, until he drew near to the humpback, when he turned his eyes,and beheld one standing by him. Now some persons had snatched off histurban early in the night, and when he saw the humpbackstanding there, he concluded that he intended to do the same. so heclenched his fist, and struck him on the neck. Down fell the humpbackupon the ground, and the Christian called out to the watchman of themarket, while, still in the excess of his intoxication, hecontinued beating the humpback, and attempting to throttle him. As hewas thus employed, the watchman came, and, finding the Christiankneeling upon the Muslim and beating him, said, Arise, andquit him! He arose, therefore, and the watchman, approaching thehumpback, saw that he was dead, and exclaimed, How is it that theChristian dareth to kill the Muslim? Then seizing the Christian, hebound his hands behind him, and took him to the house of theWalee. the Christian saying within himself, O Heavens! OVirgin! how have I killed this man? and how quickly did he die from ablow of the hand! Intoxication had departed, and reflection had come.The humpback and the Christian passed the remainder of the night in thehouse of the Walee, and the Walee ordered the executioner to proclaimthe Christian's crime, and he set up a gallows, and stationed himbeneath it. The executioner then came, and threw the rope round hisneck, and was about to hang him, when the Sulan's steward pushedthrough the crowd, seeing the Christian standing beneath the gallows,and the people made way for him, and he said to the executioner, Do itnot. for it was I who killed him. Wherefore didst thou kill him? saidthe Walee. He answered, I went into my house last night, and saw that hehad descended from the terrace and stolen my goods. so I struck him witha mallet upon his chest, and he died, and I carried him out, andconveyed him to the market street, where I set him up in such a place,at the entrance of such a lane. Is it not enough for me to have killed aMuslim, that a Christian should be killed on my account? Hang, then,none but me. The Walee, therefore, when he heard these words, liberatedthe Christian broker, and said to the executioner, Hang this man, on theground of his confession. And he took off the rope from the neck of theChristian, and put it round the neck of the steward, and, havingstationed him beneath the gallows, was about to hang him, when theJewish physician pushed through the crowd, and called out to theexecutioner, saying to him, Do it not. for none killed him but I. andthe case was this: he came to my house to be cured of a disease, and asI descended to him I struck against him with my foot, and he died: killnot the steward, therefore. but kill me. So the Walee gave orders tohang the Jewish physician. and the executioner took off the rope fromthe steward's neck, and put it round the neck of the Jew. But, lo, thetailor came, and, forcing his way among the people, said to theexecutioner, Do it not. for none killed him but I. and it happened thus:I was out amusing myself during the day, and as I was returning at thecommencement of the night, I met this humpback in a state ofintoxication, with a tambourine, and singing merrily. and I stopped todivert myself by looking at him, and took him to my house. I then boughtsome fish, and we sat down to eat, and my wife took a piece of fish anda morsel of bread, and crammed them into his mouth, and he was choked,and instantly died. Then I and my wife took him to the house of the Jew,and the girl came down and opened the door, and while she went up to hermaster, I set up the humpback by the stairs, and went away with my wife:so, when the Jew came down and stumbled against him, he thought that hehad killed him. And he said to the Jew, Is this true? He answered, Yes.The tailor, then, looking towards the Walee, said to him, Liberate theJew, and hang me. And when the Walee heard this he was astonished at thecase of the humpback, and said, Verily this is an event that should berecorded in books! And he said to the executioner, Liberate the Jew, andhang the tailor on account of his own confession. So the executioner ledhim forward, saying, Dost thou put forward this and take back that. andshall we not hang one? And he put the rope round the neck of the tailor.Now the humpback was the Sulan's buffoon, and the Sulan could not bearhim to be out of his sight. and when the humpback had got drunk, andbeen absent that night and the next day until noon, the King inquiredrespecting him of some of his attendants, and they answered him, O ourlord, the Walee hath taken him forth dead, and gave orders to hang theperson who killed him, and there came a second and a third person, eachsaying, None killed him but I: and describing to the Walee the cause ofhis killing him. When the King, therefore, heard this, he called out tothe Chamberlain, and said to him, Go down to the Walee, and bring themall hither before me. So the Chamberlain went down, and found that theexecutioner had almost put to death the tailor, and he called out tohim, saying, Do it not: and informed the Walee that the case had beenreported to the King. And he took him, and the humpback borne with him,and the tailor and the Jew and the Christian and the steward, and wentup with them all to the King. and when the Walee came into the presenceof the King, he kissed the ground, and related to him all that hadhappened. And the King was astonished, and was moved with merriment, athearing this tale. and he commanded that it should be written in lettersof gold. He then said to those who were present, Have ye ever heardanything like the story of this humpback? And upon this the Christianadvanced, and said, O King of the age, if thou permit me I will relateto thee an event that hath occurred to me more wonderful and strange andexciting than the story of the humpback. Tell us then thy story, saidthe King. And the Christian related as follows: 