EIGHTEENTH.THE STORY OF THE PORTER AND THE LADIES OF BAGHDAD, AND OF THE THREEROYAL MENDICANTS,  c.There was a man of the city of Baghdad, who was unmarried, and he was aporter. and one day, as he sat in the market, reclining against hiscrate, there accosted him a female wrapped in anizar composed ofgold embroidered silk, with a border of gold lace at each end, whoraised her face veil, and displayed beneath it a pair of black eyes,with lids bordered by long lashes, exhibiting a tender expression, andfeatures of perfect beauty. and she said, with a sweet voice, Bring thycrate, and follow me.The porter had scarcely heard her words when he took up his crate, andhe followed her until she stopped at the door of a house, and knocked.whereupon there came down to her a Christian, and she gave him a pieceof gold, and received for it a quantity of olives, and two large vesselsof wine, which she placed in the crate, saying to theporter, Take it up, and follow me. The porter exclaimed, This is,indeed, a fortunate day! and he took up the crate, and followed her.She next stopped at the shop of a fruiterer, and bought of him Syrianapples, and 'Othmanee quinces, and peaches of 'Oman, andjasmine of Aleppo, and water lilies of Damascus, and cucumbers of theNile, and Egyptian limes, and Sulanee citrons, and sweet scentedmyrtle, and sprigs of the enna tree, and chamomile, and anemones, andviolets, and pomegranate flowers, and eglantine: all these she put intothe porter's crate, and said to him, Take it up. So he took it up, andfollowed her until she stopped at the shop of a butcher, to whom shesaid, Cut off ten pounds of meat. and he cut it off for her, and shewrapped it in a leaf of a banana tree, and put it in the crate, and saidagain, Take it up, O porter: and he did so, and followed her. She nextstopped at the shop of a seller of dry fruits, and took some of everykind of these, and desired the porter to take up his burden. Havingobeyed, he followed her until she stopped at the shop of a confectioner,where she bought a dish, and filled it with sweets of every kind that hehad, which she put into the crate. whereupon the porterventured to say, If thou hadst informed me beforehand, I had broughtwith me a mule to carry all these things. The lady smiled at his remark,and next stopped at the shop of a perfumer, of whom she bought ten kindsof scented waters. rose water, and orange flower water, andwillow flower water,  c.. together with some sugar, and asprinkling bottle of rose water infused with musk, and somefrankincense, and aloes wood, and ambergris, and musk, and wax candles.and, placing all these in the crate, she said, Take up thy crate, andfollow me. He, therefore, took it up, and followed her until she came toa handsome house, before which was a spacious court. It was a loftystructure, with a door of two leaves, composed of ebony, overlaid withplates of red gold.The young lady stopped at this door, and knocked gently. whereupon bothits leaves were opened, and the porter, looking to see who opened it,found it to be a damsel of tall stature, high bosomed, fair andbeautiful, and of elegant form, with a forehead like the bright newmoon, eyes like those of gazelles, eyebrows like the new moon ofRamaan, cheeks resembling anemones, and a mouth like theseal of Suleyman: her countenance was like the full moon inits splendour, and the forms of her bosom resembled two pomegranates ofequal size. When the porter beheld her, she captivated his reason, thecrate nearly fell from his head, and he exclaimed, Never in my life haveI seen a more fortunate day than this! The lady portress, standingwithin the door, said to the cateress and the porter, Ye arewelcome: and they entered, and proceeded to a spacioussaloon, decorated with various colours, and beautifullyconstructed, with carved wood work, and fountains, and benches ofdifferent kinds, and closets with curtains hanging before them. therewas also in it, at the upper end, a couch of alabasterinlaid with large pearls and jewels, with a musquito curtain of redsatin suspended over it, and within this was a young lady with eyespossessing the enchantment of Babil, and a figure like theletter Alif, with a face that put to shame the shining sun:she was like one of the brilliant planets, or rather, one of the mosthigh born of the maidens of Arabia. This third lady, risingfrom the couch, advanced with a slow and elegant gait to the middle ofthe saloon, where her sisters were standing, and said to them, Why standye still? Lift down the burden from the head of this poorporter: whereupon the cateress placed herself before him, and theportress behind him, and, the third lady assisting them, they lifted itdown from his head. They then took out the contents of the crate, and,having put every thing in its place, gave to the porter two pieces ofgold, saying to him, Depart, O porter.The porter, however, stood looking at the ladies, and admiring theirbeauty and their agreeable dispositions. for he had never seen any morehandsome. and when he observed that they had not a man among them, andgazed upon the wine, and fruits, and sweet scented flowers, which werethere, he was full of astonishment, and hesitated to go out. upon whichone of the ladies said to him, Why dost thou not go? dost thou deem thyhire too little? Then turning to one of her sisters, she said to her,Give him another piece of gold. By Allah, O my mistress, exclaimed theporter, my hire is but two half dirhems, and I thought notwhat ye have given me too little. but my heart and mind were occupiedwith reflections upon you and your state, ye being alone, with no manamong you, not one to amuse you with his company. for ye know that themenareh standeth not firmly but on four walls: now ye havenot a fourth, and the pleasure of women is not complete without men: yeare three only, and have need of a fourth, who should be a man, aperson of sense, discreet, acute, and a concealer of secrets. We aremaidens, they replied. and fear to impart our secret to him who will notkeep it. for we have read, in a certain history, this verse: Guard thy secret from another: intrust it not: for he who intrustetha secret hath lost it. By your existence, said the porter, I am a man of sense, andtrustworthy: I have read various books, and perused histories: I makeknown what is fair, and conceal what is foul, and act in accordance withthe saying of the poet: None keepeth a secret but a faithful person: with the best of mankindit remaineth concealed.A secret is with me as in a house with a lock, whose key is lost,and whose door is sealed.When the ladies heard the verses which he quoted, and the words withwhich he addressed them, they said to him, Thou knowest that we haveexpended here a considerable sum of money: hast thou then wherewith torequite us? We will not suffer thee to remain with us unless thoucontribute a sum of money. for thou desirest to sit with us, and to beour cup companion, and to gaze upon our beautiful faces. If friendshipis without money, said the mistress of the house, it is not equivalentto the weight of a grain: and the portress added, If thou hast nothing,depart with nothing: but the cateress said, O sister, let us sufferhim. for, verily, he hath not been deficient in his services for us thisday: another had not been so patient with us: whatever, therefore, fallsto his share of the expense, I will defray for him. At this the porterrejoiced, and exclaimed, By Allah, I obtained my first and only pay thisday from none but thee: and the other ladies said to him, Sit down:thou art welcome.The cateress then arose, and, having tightened her girdle, arranged thebottles, and strained the wine, and prepared the table by the pool ofthe fountain. She made ready all that they required, brought the wine,and sat down with her sisters. the porter also sitting with them,thinking he was in a dream. And when they had seated themselves, thecateress took a jar of wine, and filled the first cup, and drankit: she then filled another, and handed it to one of hersisters. and in like manner she did to her other sister. after which shefilled again, and handed the cup to the porter, who, having taken itfrom her hand, repeated this verse: I will drink the wine, and enjoy health. for, verily, this beverageis a remedy for disease.The wine continued to circulate among them, and the porter, taking hispart in the revels, dancing and singing with them, and enjoyingthe fragrant odours, began to hug and kiss them, while oneslapped him, and another pulled him, and the third beathim with sweet scented flowers, till, at length, the wine made sportwith their reason. and they threw off all restraint, indulgingtheir merriment with as much freedom as if no man had beenpresent.Thus they continued until the approach of night, when theysaid to the porter, Depart, and shew us the breadth of thyshoulders. but he replied, Verily the departure of my soulfrom my body were more easy to me than my departure from your company.therefore suffer us to join the night to the day, and then each of usshall return to his own, or her own, affairs. The cateress, also, againinterceded for him, saying, By my life I conjure you that ye suffer himto pass the night with us, that we may laugh at his drolleries, for heis a witty rogue. So they said to him, Thou shalt pass the night with uson this condition, that thou submit to our authority, and ask not anexplanation of anything that thou shalt see. He replied, Good. Risethen, said they, and read what is inscribed upon the door. Accordingly,he went to the door, and found the following inscription upon it inletters of gold, Speak not of that which doth not concern thee, lestthou hear that which will not please thee: and he said, Bear witness tomy promise that I will not speak of that which doth not concern me.The cateress then rose, and prepared for them a repast. and, after theyhad eaten a little, they lighted the candles and burnt some aloes wood.This done, they sat down again to the table. and, while they were eatingand drinking, they heard a knocking at the door. whereupon, withoutcausing any interruption to their meal, one of them went to the door,and, on her return, said, Our pleasure this night is now complete, for Ihave found, at the door, three foreigners with shavenchins, and each of them is blind of the left eye: it is an extraordinarycoincidence. They are strangers newly arrived, and each ofthem has a ridiculous appearance: if they come in, therefore, we shallbe amused with laughing at them. The lady ceased not with these words,but continued to persuade her sisters until they consented, and said,Let them enter. but make it a condition with them that they speak not ofthat which doth not concern them, lest they hear that which will notplease them. Upon this she rejoiced, and, having gone again to the door,brought in the three men blind of one eye and with shaven chins, andthey had thin and twisted mustaches. Being mendicants, they saluted anddrew back. but the ladies rose to them, and seated them. and when thesethree men looked at the porter, they saw that he was intoxicated. and,observing him narrowly, they thought that he was one of their own class,and said, He is a mendicant like ourselves, and will amuse us by hisconversation: but the porter, hearing what they said, arose, and rolledhis eyes, and exclaimed to them, Sit quiet, and abstain from impertinentremarks. Have ye not read the inscription upon the door? The ladies,laughing, said to each other, Between the mendicants and the porter weshall find matter for amusement. They then placed before the former somefood, and they ate, and then sat to drink. The portress handed to themthe wine, and, as the cup was circulating among them, the porter said tothem, Brothers, have ye any tale or strange anecdote wherewith to amuseus? The mendicants, heated by the wine, asked for musical instruments.and the portress brought them a tambourine of the manufacture ofEl Moil, with a lute of El 'Era, and a Persian harp.whereupon they all arose. and one took the tambourine. another, thelute. and the third, the harp: and they played upon these instruments,the ladies accompanying them with loud songs. and while they were thusdiverting themselves, a person knocked at the door. The portress,therefore, went to see who was there. and the cause of the knocking wasthis.The Khaleefeh Haroon Er Rasheed had gone forth this night to seeand hear what news he could collect, accompanied by Jaafar hisWezeer, and Mesroor his executioner. It was his custom todisguise himself in the attire of a merchant. and this night, as he wentthrough the city, he happened to pass, with his attendants, by the houseof these ladies, and hearing the sounds of the musical instruments, hesaid to Jaafar, I have a desire to enter this house, and to see who isgiving this concert. They are a party who have become intoxicated,replied Jaafar, and I fear that we may experience some ill usage fromthem. but the Khaleefeh said, We must enter, and I would that thoudevise some stratagem by which we may obtain admission to the inmates.Jaafar therefore answered, I hear and obey: and he advanced, andknocked at the door. and when the portress came and opened the door, hesaid to her, My mistress, we are merchants from Tabareeyeh, andhave been in Baghdad ten days. we have brought with us merchandise, andtaken lodgings in a Khan. and a merchant invited us to anentertainment this night: accordingly, we went to his house, and heplaced food before us, and we ate, and sat awhile drinking together,after which he gave us leave to depart. and going out in thedark, and being strangers, we missed our way to the Khan: we trust,therefore, in your generosity that you will admit us to pass the nightin your house. by doing which you will obtain a reward in heaven. Theportress, looking at them, and observing that they were in the garb ofmerchants, and that they bore an appearance of respectability, returned,and consulted her two companions. and they said to her, Admit them: soshe returned, and opened to them the door. They said to her, Shall weenter with thy permission? She answered, Come in. The Khaleefeh,therefore, entered, with Jaafar and Mesroor. and when the ladies sawthem, they rose to them, and served them, saying, Welcome are ourguests. but we have a condition to impose upon you, that ye speak not ofthat which doth not concern you, lest ye hear that which will not pleaseyou. They answered, Good: and when they had sat down to drink, theKhaleefeh looked at the three mendicants, and was surprised at observingthat each of them was blind of the left eye. and he gazed upon theladies, and was perplexed and amazed at their fairness and beauty. Andwhen the others proceeded to drink and converse, the ladies brought wineto the Khaleefeh. but he said, I am a pilgrim. and drew backfrom them. Whereupon the portress spread before him an embroideredcloth, and placed upon it a China bottle, into which she poured somewillow flower water, adding to it a lump of ice, and sweetening it withsugar, while the Khaleefeh thanked her, and said within himself,To morrow I must reward her for this kind action.The party continued their carousal, and, when the wine took effect uponthem, the mistress of the house arose, and waited upon them. andafterwards, taking the hand of the cateress, said, Arise, O my sister,that we may fulfil our debt. She replied, Good. The portress then rose,and, after she had cleared the middle of the saloon, placed themendicants at the further end, beyond the doors. after which, the ladiescalled to the porter, saying, How slight is thy friendship! thou art nota stranger, but one of the family. So the porter arose, and girdedhimself, and said, What would ye? to which one of the ladies answered,Stand where thou art: and presently the cateress said to him, Assistme: and he saw two black bitches, with chains attached to their necks,and drew them to the middle of the saloon. whereupon the mistress of thehouse arose from her place, and tucked up her sleeve above her wrist,and, taking a whip, said to the porter, Bring to me one of them.Accordingly, he dragged one forward by the chain. The bitch whined, andshook her head at the lady. but the latter fell to beating her upon thehead, notwithstanding her howling, until her arms were tired, when shethrew the whip from her hand, and pressed the bitch to her bosom, andwiped away her tears, and kissed her head. after which she said to theporter, Take her back, and bring the other. and he brought her, and shedid to her as she had done to the first. At the sight of this, the mindof the Khaleefeh was troubled, and his heart was contracted, and hewinked to Jaafar that he should ask her the reason. but he replied by asign, Speak not.The mistress of the house then looked towards the portress, and said toher, Arise to perform what thou hast to do. She replied, Good: and themistress of the house seated herself upon a couch of alabaster, overlaidwith gold and silver, and said to the portress and the cateress, Nowperform your parts. The portress then seated herself upon a couch byher. and the cateress, having entered a closet, brought out from it abag of satin with green fringes, and, placing herself before the lady ofthe house, shook it, and took out from it a lute. and she tuned itsstrings, and sang to it these verses: Restore to my eyelids the sleep which hath been ravished.and inform me of my reason, whither it hath fled.I discovered, when I took up my abode with love, that slumber hadbecome an enemy to my eyes.They said, We saw thee to be one of the upright. what, then, hathseduced thee? I answered, Seek the cause from his glance.Verily I excuse him for the shedding of my blood, admitting thatI urged him to the deed by vexation.He cast his sun like image upon the mirror of my mind, and itsreflection kindled a flame in my vitals.When the portress had heard this song, she exclaimed, Allahapprove thee! and she rent her clothes, and fell upon the floor in aswoon. and when her bosom was thus uncovered, the Khaleefeh saw upon herthe marks of beating, as if from mira'ahs and whips. atwhich he was greatly surprised. The cateress immediatelyarose, sprinkled water upon her face, and brought her another dress,which she put on. The Khaleefeh then said to Jaafar, Seest thou not thiswoman, and the marks of beating upon her? I cannot keep silencerespecting this affair, nor be at rest, until I know the truth of thehistory of this damsel, and that of these two bitches. But Jaafarreplied, O our lord, they have made a covenant with us that we shall notspeak excepting of that which concerneth us, lest we hear that whichwill not please us. The cateress then took the lute again, and, placingit against her bosom, touched the chords with the ends of her fingers,and thus sang to it: If of love we complain, what shall we say? Or consuming through desire,how can we escape?Or if we send a messenger to interpret for us, he cannot conveythe lover's complaint.Or if we would be patient, short were our existence after the lossof those we love.Nought remaineth to us but grief and mourning, and tears streamingdown our cheeks.O you who are absent from my sight, but constantly dwelling withinmy heart!Have you kept your faith to an impassioned lover, who, while timeendureth, will never change?Or, in absence, have you forgotten that lover who, on your account,is wasting away?When the day of judgment shall bring us together, I will beg ofour Lord a protractive trial.On hearing these verses of the cateress, the portress again rent herclothes, and cried out, and fell upon the floor in a swoon. and thecateress, as before, put on her another dress, after she had sprinkledsome water upon her face.The mendicants, when they witnessed this scene, said, Would that we hadnever entered this house, but rather had passed the night upon themounds. for our night hath been rendered foul by an eventthat breaketh the back! The Khaleefeh, looking towards them, then said,Wherefore is it so with you? They answered, Our hearts are troubled bythis occurrence. Are ye not, he asked, of this house? No, theyanswered. nor did we imagine that this house belonged to any but the manwho is sitting with you: upon which the porter said, Verily, I havenever seen this place before this night. and I would that I had passedthe night upon the mounds rather than here. They then observed, one toanother, We are seven men, and they are but three women. we will,therefore, ask them of their history. and if they answer us notwillingly they shall do it in spite of themselves: and they all agreedto this, excepting Jaafar, who said, This is not a right determination.leave them to themselves, for we are their guests, and they made acovenant with us which we should fulfil: there remaineth but little ofthe night, and each of us shall soon go his way. Then, winking to theKhaleefeh, he said, There remaineth but an hour. and to morrow we willbring them before thee, and thou shalt ask them their story. But theKhaleefeh refused to do so, and said, I have not patience to wait solong for their history. Words followed words, and at last they said,Who shall put the question to them? and one answered, The porter.The ladies then said to them, O people, of what are ye talking? whereuponthe porter approached the mistress of the house, and said to her, O mymistress, I ask thee, and conjure thee by Allah, to tell us the story ofthe two bitches, and for what reason thou didst beat them, and thendidst weep, and kiss them, and that thou acquaint us with the cause ofthy sister's having been beaten with mira'ahs: that is our question,and peace be on you. Is this true that he saith of you? inquired thelady, of the other men. and they all answered, Yes, excepting Jaafar,who was silent. When the lady heard their answer, she said, Verily, Oour guests, ye have wronged us excessively. for we made a covenant withyou beforehand, that he who should speak of that which concerned him notshould hear that which would not please him. Is it not enough that wehave admitted you into our house, and fed you with our provisions? Butit is not so much your fault as the fault of her who introduced you tous. She then tucked up her sleeve above her wrist, and struck the floorthree times, saying, Come ye quickly! and immediately the door of acloset opened, and there came forth from it seven black slaves, eachhaving in his hand a drawn sword. The lady said to them, Tie behind themthe hands of these men of many words, and bind each of them toanother: and they did so, and said, O virtuous lady, dost thou permitus to strike off their heads? She answered, Give them a short respite,until I shall have inquired of them their histories, before ye beheadthem. By Allah, O my mistress, exclaimed the porter, kill me not forthe offence of others: for they have all transgressed and committed anoffence, excepting me. Verily our night had been pleasant if we had beenpreserved from these mendicants, whose presence is enough to convert awell peopled city into a heap of ruins! He then repeated thiscouplet: How good is it to pardon one able to resist! and how much more so,one who is helpless!For the sake of the friendship that subsisted between us, destroynot one for the crime of another!On hearing these words of the porter, the lady laughed after her anger.Then approaching the men, she said, Acquaint me with your histories, forthere remaineth of your lives no more than an hour. Were ye not personsof honourable and high condition, or governors, I wouldhasten your recompense. The Khaleefeh said to Jaafar, Wo to thee, OJaafar! make known to her who we are. otherwise she will kill us. Itwere what we deserve, replied he. Jesting, said the Khaleefeh, is notbefitting in a time for seriousness: each has its proper occasion. Thelady then approached the mendicants, and said to them, Are ye brothers?They answered, No, indeed. we are only poor foreigners. Shesaid then to one of them, Wast thou born blind of one eye? No, verily,he answered. but a wonderful event happened to me when my eye wasdestroyed, and the story of it, if engraved on the understanding, wouldserve as a lesson to him who would be admonished. She asked the secondand the third also. and they answered her as the first. adding, Each ofus is from a different country, and our history is wonderful andextraordinary. The lady then looked towards them and said, Each of youshall relate his story, and the cause of his coming to our abode, andthen stroke his head, and go his way.The first who advanced was the porter, who said, O my mistress, I am aporter. and this cateress loaded me, and brought me hither, and whathath happened to me here in your company ye know. This is my story. andpeace be on you. Stroke thy head, then, said she, and go: but hereplied, By Allah, I will not go until I shall have heard the story ofmy companions. The first mendicant then advanced, and related asfollows: THE STORY OF THE FIRST ROYAL MENDICANT.Know, O my mistress, that the cause of my having shaved my beard, and ofthe loss of my eye was this: My father was a King, and he had a brotherwho was also a King, and who resided in another capital. It happenedthat my mother gave birth to me on the same day on which the son of myuncle was born. and years and days passed away until we attained tomanhood. Now, it was my custom, some years, to visit my uncle, and toremain with him several months. and on one of these occasions my cousinpaid me great honour. he slaughtered sheep for me, and strained the winefor me, and we sat down to drink. and when the wine had affected us, hesaid to me, O son of my uncle, I have need of thine assistance in anaffair of interest to me, and I beg that thou wilt not oppose me in thatwhich I desire to do. I replied, I am altogether at thy service: and hemade me swear to him by great oaths, and, rising immediately, absentedhimself for a little while, and then returned, followed by a womandecked with ornaments, and perfumed, and wearing a dress ofextraordinary value. He looked towards me, while the woman stood behindhim, and said, Take this woman, and go before me to the burial groundwhich is in such a place: and he described it to me, and I knew it. Hethen added, Enter the burial ground, and there wait for me.I could not oppose him, nor refuse to comply with his request, onaccount of the oaths which I had sworn to him. so I took the woman, andwent with her to the burial ground. and when we had sat there a shorttime, my cousin came, bearing a basin of water, and a bag containingsome plaster, and a small adze. Going to a tomb in the midst of theburial ground, he took the adze, and disunited the stones, which heplaced on one side. he then dug up the earth with the adze, anduncovered a flat stone, of the size of a small door, under which thereappeared a vaulted staircase. Having done this he made a sign to thewoman, and said to her, Do according to thy choice: whereupon shedescended the stairs. He then looked towards me, and said, O son of myuncle, complete thy kindness when I have descended into this place, byreplacing the trap door and the earth above it as they were before:then, this plaster which is in the bag, and this water which is in thebasin, do thou knead together, and plaster the stones of the tomb asthey were, so that no man may know it, and say, This hath been latelyopened, but its interior is old: for, during the space of a whole yearI have been preparing this, and no one knew it but God: this is what Iwould have thee do. He then said to me, May God never deprive thyfriends of thy presence, O son of my uncle! and, having uttered thesewords, he descended the stairs.When he had disappeared from before my eyes, I replaced the trap door,and busied myself with doing as he had ordered me, until the tomb wasrestored to the state in which it was at first. after which I returnedto the palace of my uncle, who was then absent on a hunting excursion. Islept that night, and when the morning came, I reflected upon what hadoccurred between me and my cousin, and repented of what I had done forhim, when repentance was of no avail. I then went out to theburial ground, and searched for the tomb. but could not discover it. Iceased not in my search until the approach of night. and, not findingthe way to it, returned again to the palace. and I neither ate nordrank: my heart was troubled respecting my cousin, since I knew not whathad become of him. and I fell into excessive grief. I passed the nightsorrowful until the morning, and went again to the burial ground,reflecting upon the action of my cousin, and repenting of my compliancewith his request. and I searched among all the tombs. but discovered notthat for which I looked. Thus I persevered in my search seven dayswithout success.My trouble continued and increased until I was almost mad. and I foundno relief but in departing, and returning to my father. but on myarrival at his capital, a party at the city gate sprang upon me andbound me. I was struck with the utmost astonishment, considering that Iwas the son of the Sulan of the city, and that these were the servantsof my father and of myself: excessive fear of them overcame me, and Isaid within myself, What hath happened to my father? I asked, of thosewho had bound me, the cause of this conduct. but they returned me noanswer, till after a while, when one of them, who had been my servant,said to me, Fortune hath betrayed thy father, the troops have been falseto him, and the Wezeer hath killed him. and we were lying in wait totake thee. They took me, and I was as one dead, by reason of this newswhich I had heard respecting my father. and I stood before the Wezeerwho had killed my father.Now, there was an old enmity subsisting between me and him. and thecause of it was this: I was fond of shooting with the cross bow. and ithappened, one day, that as I was standing on the roof of my palace, abird alighted on the roof of the palace of the Wezeer, who was standingthere at the time, and I aimed at the bird. but the bullet missed it,and struck the eye of the Wezeer, and knocked it out, in accordance withthe appointment of fate and destiny, as the poet hath said: We trod the steps appointed for us: and the man whose steps areappointed must tread them.He whose death is decreed to take place in one land will not diein any land but that.When I had thus put out the eye of the Wezeer, he could say nothing,because my father was King of the city. This was the cause of the enmitybetween him and me: and when I stood before him, with my hands boundbehind me, he gave the order to strike off my head. I said to him,Wouldst thou kill me for no offence? What offence, he exclaimed, couldbe greater than this? and he pointed to the place of the eye which wasput out. I did that, said I, unintentionally. He replied, If thou didstit unintentionally, I will do the same to thee purposely: andimmediately he said, Bring him forward to me: and, when they had doneso, he thrust his finger into my left eye, and pulled it out. Thus Ibecame deprived of one eye, as ye see me. He then bound me firmly, andplaced me in a chest, and said to the executioner, Take this fellow, anddraw thy sword, and convey him without the city. then put him to death,and let the wild beasts devour him.Accordingly, he went forth with me from the city, and, having taken meout from the chest, bound hand and foot, was about to bandage my eye,and kill me. whereupon I wept, and exclaimed, How many brothers have I taken as armour! and such they were.but to guard my enemies.I thought they would be as piercing arrows: and such they were.but to enter my heart!The executioner, who had served my father in the same capacity, and towhom I had shewn kindnesses, said, on hearing these verses, O my master,what can I do, being a slave under command? but presently he added,Depart with thy life, and return not to this country, lest thou perish,and cause me to perish with thee. The poet saith, Flee with thy life if thou fearest oppression, and leave the houseto tell its builder's fate.Thou wilt find, for the land that thou quittest, another: but no soulwilt thou find to replace thine own.As soon as he had thus said, I kissed his hands, and believed not in mysafety until I had fled from his presence. The loss of my eye appearedlight to me when I considered my escape from death. and I journeyed tomy uncle's capital, and, presenting myself before him, informed him ofwhat had befallen my father, and of the manner in which I had lost myeye: upon which he wept bitterly, and said, Thou hast added to mytrouble and my grief. for thy cousin hath been lost for some days, and Iknow not what hath happened to him, nor can any one give me informationrespecting him. Then he wept again, until he became insensible. and whenhe recovered, he said, O my son, the loss of thine eye is better thanthe loss of thy life.Upon this I could no longer keep silence respecting his son, my cousin.so I informed him of all that happened to him. and on hearing this newshe rejoiced exceedingly, and said, Shew me the tomb. By Allah, O myuncle, I replied, I know not where it is. for I went afterwards severaltimes to search for it, and could not recognise its place. We, however,went together to the burial ground, and, looking to the right and left,I discovered it. and both I and my uncle rejoiced. I then entered thetomb with him, and when we had removed the earth, and lifted up thetrap door, we descended fifty steps, and, arriving at the bottom of thestairs, there issued forth upon us a smoke which blinded our eyes.whereupon my uncle pronounced those words which relieve from fear himwho uttereth them, There is no strength nor power but in God, the High,the Great! After this, we proceeded, and found ourselves in a saloon,filled with flour and grain, and various eatables. and we saw there acurtain suspended over a couch, upon which my uncle looked, and foundthere his son and the woman who had descended with him, lying side byside, and converted into black charcoal, as if they had been thrown intoa pit of fire. And when he beheld this spectacle, he spat in his son'sface, and exclaimed, This is what thou deservest, O thou wretch! This isthe punishment of the present world, and there remaineth the punishmentof the other world, which will be more severe and lasting! and hestruck him with his shoes. Astonished at this action, and grieved for mycousin, seeing him and the damsel thus converted into charcoal, I said,By Allah, O my uncle, moderate the trouble of thy heart, for my mind isperplexed by that which hath happened to thy son, and by thinking how ithath come to pass that he and the damsel are converted into blackcharcoal. Dost thou not deem it enough for him to be in this state, thatthou beatest him with thy shoes?O son of my brother, he replied, this my son was, from his early years,inflamed with love for his foster sister, and I used toforbid him from entertaining this passion for her, and to say withinmyself, They are now children, but when they grow older a base act willbe committed by them: and, indeed, I heard that such had been the case,but I believed it not. I, however, reprimanded him severely, and said tohim, Beware of so foul an action, which none before thee hath committed,nor will any commit after thee: otherwise we shall suffer disgrace anddisparagement among the Kings until we die, and our history will spreadabroad with the caravans: have a care for thyself that such an actionproceed not from thee. for I should be incensed against thee, and killthee. I then separated him from her, and her from him: but the vilewoman loved him excessively. the Devil got possession of them both. andwhen my son saw that I had separated him, he secretly made this placebeneath the earth, and, having conveyed hither the provisions whichthou seest, took advantage of my inadvertence when I had gone out tohunt, and came hither: but the Truth (whose perfection beextolled, and whose name be exalted!) was jealously vigilant over them,and consumed them by fire. and the punishment of the world to come willbe more severe and lasting. He then wept, and I wept with him. and hesaid to me, Thou art my son in his stead. I remained a while reflectingupon the world and its vicissitudes, upon the murder of my father by theWezeer, and his usurping his throne, and the loss of my eye, and thestrange events which had happened to my cousin, and I wept again.We then ascended, and, having replaced the trap door and the earth aboveit, and restored the tomb to its former state, returned to our abode.but scarcely had we seated ourselves when we heard the sounds of drumsand trumpets, warriours galloped about, and the air was filled with dustraised by the horses' hoofs. Our minds were perplexed, not knowing whathad happened, and the King, asking the news, was answered, The Wezeer ofthy brother hath slain him and his soldiers and guards, and come withhis army to assault the city unawares. and the inhabitants, being unableto withstand, have submitted to him: whereupon I said within myself, IfI fall into his hand, he will slay me. Griefs overwhelmed me, and Ithought of the calamities which had befallen my father and my mother,and knew not what to do. for if I appeared, the people of the city wouldknow me, and the troops of my father would hasten to kill and destroyme. I knew no way of escape but to shave off my beard: so Ishaved it, and, having changed my clothes, departed from the city, andcame hither, to this abode of peace, in the hope that some person wouldintroduce me to the Prince of the Faithful, the Khaleefeh of the Lord ofall creatures, that I might relate to him my story, and all that hadbefallen me. I arrived in this city this night. and as I stoodperplexed, not knowing whither to direct my steps, I saw this mendicant,and saluted him, and said, I am a stranger. He replied, And I, too, am astranger: and while we were thus addressing each other, our companion,this third person, came up to us, and saluting us, said, I am astranger. We replied, And we, also, are strangers. So we walked ontogether, and darkness overtook us, and destiny directed us unto yourabode. This was the cause of the shaving of my beard, and of the lossof my eye.The lady then said to him, Stroke my head, and depart: but he replied,I will not depart until I have heard the stories of the others. Andthey wondered at his tale. and the Khaleefeh said to Jaafar, Verily Ihave never known the like of that which hath happened to this mendicant.The second mendicant then advanced, and, having kissed the ground,said, THE STORY OF THE SECOND ROYAL MENDICANT.O my mistress, I was not born with only one eye. but my story iswonderful, and, if written, would serve as a lesson to him who would beadmonished. I am a King, and son of a King: I read the uran accordingto the seven readings, and perused various works under thetuition of different learned professors of their subjects: I studied thescience of the stars, and the writings of the poets, andmade myself a proficient in all the sciences. so that I surpassed thepeople of my age. My hand writing was extolled among allthe scribes, my fame spread among all countries, and my history amongall Kings. and the King of India, hearing of me, requested my father toallow me to visit him, sending him various gifts and curious presents,such as were suitable to Kings. My father, therefore, prepared for mesix ships, and we proceeded by sea for the space of a whole month, afterwhich we came to land. and, having disembarked some horses which we hadwith us in the ship, we loaded ten camels with presents, and commencedour journey. but soon there appeared a cloud of dust, which rose andspread until it filled the air before us, and, after a while, cleared alittle, and discovered to us, in the midst of it, sixty horseman likefierce lions whom we perceived to be Arab highwaymen. and when they sawus, that we were a small company with ten loads of presents for the Kingof India, they galloped towards us, pointing their spears at us. We madesigns to them with our fingers, and said, We are ambassadors to thehonoured King of India. therefore do us no injury: but they replied, Weare not in his territories, nor under his government. They slew certainof the young men, and the rest fled. I also fled, after I had received asevere wound. the Arabs being employed, without further regard to us, intaking possession of the treasure and presents which we had with us.I proceeded without knowing whither to direct my course, reduced from amighty to an abject state, and journeyed till I arrived at the summit ofa mountain, where I took shelter in a cavern until the next morning. Ithen resumed my journey, and arrived at a flourishing city: the winter,with its cold, had passed away, and the spring had come, with itsflowers. and I rejoiced at my arrival there, being wearied with myjourney, anxious and pallid. My condition being thus changed, I knew notwhither to bend my steps. and, turning to a tailor sitting in his shop,I saluted him, and he returned my salutation, and welcomed me, andwished me joy, asking me the reason of my having come thither. Iacquainted him, therefore, with what had befallen me from first to last,and he was grieved for me, and said, O young man, reveal not thy case,for I fear what the King of this city might do to thee, since he is thegreatest of thy father's enemies, and hath a debt of blood against him.He then placed some food and drink before me, and we ate together, and Iconversed with him till night, when he lodged me in a place by his shop,and brought me a bed and coverlet. and, after I had remained with himthree days, he said to me, Dost thou not know any trade by which to makegain? I answered, I am acquainted with the law, a studentof sciences, a writer, and an arithmetician. Thy occupation, he said,is profitless in our country: there is no one in our city acquaintedwith science or writing, but only with getting money. Verily, I replied,I know nothing but what I have told thee. Gird thyself, then, said he,and take an axe and a rope, and cut firewood in the desert, and soobtain thy subsistence until God dispel thy affliction. but acquaint noone with thy history, else they will kill thee. He then bought for me anaxe and a rope, and sent me with a party of wood cutters, giving them acharge respecting me. Accordingly, I went forth with them, and, cut somewood, and brought back a load upon my head, and sold it for half apiece of gold, part of which I expended in food, laying by theremainder.