There was and there was not, there was a miserable peasant. He had a wifeand a little daughter. So poor was this peasant that his daughter wascalled Conkiajgharuna (Little Rag Girl).Some time passed, and his wife died. He was unhappy before, but now agreater misfortune had befallen him. He grieved and grieved, and at lasthe said to himself, "I will go and take another wife. she will mind thehouse, and tend my orphan child." So he arose and took a second wife, butthis wife brought with her a daughter of her own. When this woman cameinto her husband's house and saw his child, she was angry in heart.She treated Little Rag Girl badly. She petted her own daughter, butscolded her stepdaughter, and tried to get rid of her. Every day she gaveher a piece of badly cooked bread, and sent her out to watch the cow,saying, "Here is a loaf. eat of it, give to every wayfarer, and bring theloaf home whole." The girl went, and felt very miserable.Once she was sitting sadly in the field, and began to weep bitterly.The cow listened, and then opened its mouth, and said, "Why are youweeping? What troubles you?" The girl told her sad tale. The cow said, "Inone of my horns is honey, and in the other is butter, which you can takeif you want to, so why be unhappy?" The girl took the butter and thehoney, and in a short time she grew plump. When the stepmother noticedthis she did not know what to do for rage. She rose, and after that everyday she gave her a basket of wool with her. this wool was to be spun andbrought home in the evening finished. The stepmother wished to tire thegirl out with toil, so that she should grow thin and ugly.Once when Little Rag Girl was tending the cow, it ran away onto a roof.(In some parts of the Caucasus the houses of the peasantry are built inthe ground, and it is quite possible to walk onto a roof unwittingly.(Note by Wardrop)) She pursued it, and wished to drive it back to theroad, but she dropped her spindle on the roof. Looking inside she saw anold woman seated, and said to her, "Good mother, will you give me myspindle?"The old dame replied, "I am not able, my child, come and take ityourself." The old woman was a devi .The girl went in and was lifting up her spindle, when the old damecalled out, "Daughter, daughter, come and look at my head a moment. I amalmost eaten up."The girl came and looked at her head. She was filled with horror. allthe worms in the earth seemed to be crawling there. The little girlstroked her head and removed some, and then said, "You have a clean head.Why should I look at it?"This conduct pleased the old woman very much, and she said, "When youleave here, go along such and such a road, and in a certain place you willsee three springs   one white, one black, and one yellow. Pass by thewhite and black, and put your head in the yellow and rinse it with yourhands."The girl did this. She went on her way, and came to the three springs.She passed by the white and black, and bathed her head with her hands inthe yellow fountain. When she looked up she saw that her hair was quitegolden, and her hands, too, shone like gold. In the evening, when she wenthome, her stepmother was filled with fury. After this she sent her owndaughter with the cow. Perhaps the same good fortune would visit her!So Little Rag Girl stayed at home while her stepsister drove out thecow. Once more the cow ran onto the roof. The girl pursued it, and herspindle fell down. She looked in, and seeing the devi woman, calledout, "Dog of an old woman! Here! Come and give me my spindle!"The old woman replied, "I am not able, child, come and take ityourself." When the girl came near, the old woman said, "Come, child, andlook at my head."The girl came and looked at her head, and cried out, "Ugh! What ahorrid head you have! You are a disgusting old woman!"The old woman said, "I thank you, my child. when you go on your way youwill see a yellow, a white, and a black spring. Pass by the yellow and thewhite springs, and rinse your head with your hands in the black one."The girl did this. She passed by the yellow and white springs, andbathed her head in the black once. When she looked at herself she wasblack as an African, and on her head there was a horn. She cut it offagain and again, but it grew larger and larger.She went home and complained to her mother, who was almost frenzied,but there was no help for it. Her mother said to herself, "This is all thecow's fault, so it shall be killed."This cow knew the future. When it learned that it was to be killed, itwent to Little Rag Girl and said, "When I am dead, gather my bonestogether and bury them in the earth. When you are in trouble come to mygrave, and cry aloud, 'Bring my steed and my royal robes!'" Little RagGirl did exactly as the cow had told her. When it was dead she took itsbones and buried them in the earth.After this, some time passed. One holiday the stepmother took herdaughter, and they went to church. She placed a trough in front of LittleRag Girl, spread a large measure of millet in the courtyard, and said,"Before we come home from church fill this trough with tears, and gatherup this millet, so that not one grain is left." Then they went to church.Little Rag Girl sat down and began to weep. While she was crying aneighbor came in a said, "Why are you in tears? What is the matter?" Thelittle girl told her tale. The woman brought all the brood hens andchicken, and they picked up every grain of millet, then she put a lump ofsalt in the trough and poured water over it. "There, child," said she,"there are your tears! Now go and enjoy yourself."Little Rag Girl then thought of the cow. She went to its grave andcalled out, "Bring me my steed and my royal robes!" There appeared at oncea horse and beautiful clothes. Little Rag Girl put on the garments,mounted the horse, and went to the church.There all the folk began to stare at her. They were amazed at hergrandeur. Her stepsister whispered to her mother when she saw her, "Thisgirl is very much like our Little Rag Girl!"Her mother smiled scornfully and said, "Who would give that sundarkener such robes?"Little Rag Girl left the church before anyone else. she changed herclothes in time to appear before her stepmother in rags. On the way home,as she was leaping over a stream, in her haste she let her slipper fallin.A long time passed. Once when the king's horses were drinking water inthis stream, they saw the shining slipper and were so afraid that theywould drink no more water. The king was told that there was somethingshining in the stream, and that the horses were afraid.The king commanded his divers to find out what it was. They found thegolden slipper, and presented it to the king. When he saw it, he commandedhis viziers, saying, "Go and seek the owner of this slipper, for I willwed none but her." His viziers sought the maiden, but they could find noone whom the slipper would fit.Little Rag Girl's mother heard this, adorned her daughter, and placedher on a throne. Then she went and told the king that she had a daughterwhose foot he might look at. It was exactly the model for the shoe. Sheput Little Rag Girl in a corner, with a big basket over her. When the kingcame into the house he sat down on the basket, in order to try on theslipper.Little Rag Girl took a needle and pricked the king from under thebasket. He jumped up, stinging with pain, and asked the stepmother whatshe had under the basket. The stepmother replied, "It is only a turkey Ihave there."The king sat down on the basket again, and Little Rag Girl again stuckthe needle into him. The king jumped up, and cried out, "Lift the basket.I will see underneath!"The stepmother pleaded with him, saying, "Do not blame me, yourmajesty, it is only a turkey, and it will run away."But the king would not listen to her pleas. He lifted the basket up,and Little Rag Girl came forth, and said, "This slipper is mine, and fitsme well." She sat down, and the king found that it was indeed a perfectfit. Little Rag Girl became the king's wife, and her shameless stepmotherwas left with a dry throat.