Ages ago there lived in Tannenberg Castle on the mountain road a knightwhose name was Conrad. He had a wife named Ann Els who was as beautiful asshe was pious. One time she became seriously ill, and he vowed that if sheshould recover he would make a pilgrimage to the Holy Grave and therebattle against the infidels. And lo, Ann Els recovered soon thereafter,and when her health had fully returned, the knight made himself ready todepart on a pilgrimage. With many tears he took leave of his wife andjourneyed to the sea, where together with companions he had met underwayhe boarded a ship.At sea the ship was attacked by pirates. He and his companions weretaken prisoner and sold as slaves to an eminent Turk.Year upon year passed, and his wife received no news from him. Becauseshe was wealthy, she received many marriage proposals from neighboringknights, but she was interested in none of them and rejected them all,which caused a great deal of hate and animosity toward her.Then one day she heard from another pilgrim who was returning home fromthe promised land that her husband was languishing as a prisoner among theTurks, and she resolved to rescue him, cost it what it may. Dressingherself in men's clothes, she took her harp, which she could play verywell, and journeyed across the sea to Turkey. Arriving there safely, shesought and inquired after her husband until finally she discovered wherehe was. Then one day she approached the Turk who was his master and playedsuch beautiful melodies on her harp, and sang with such charm, that theTurk said she should name her own reward, that he would give her anythingshe requested.Then she said, "I ask only for a slave to serve me," and from among theslaves she selected one   her dear husband. However, she did not identifyherself to him, but kept him away from her. After the sea voyage wassuccessfully completed and they found themselves again on Christian soil,she left a sum of money for him, then secretly slipped away and hurriedhome as fast as possible.Not long afterward Conrad too arrived at Tannenberg Castle and wasjoyfully and festively received by his wife. All the knights from thesurrounding area came to the castle to wish him well. While they wereeating Knight Conrad told them of his adventures, how he had beencaptured, mistreated, and so miraculously rescued.Then several of the knights whose marriage proposals Ann Els hadrejected whispered into his ear that in the meantime his wife had beentraveling about the land dressed in men's clothes and leading an indecentlife.Upon hearing this Conrad jumped up angrily, drew his sword, andattempted to kill Ann Els, but she fled into her room and barred the doorso that he could not harm her. Not long afterward she returned to the hallcarrying her harp and wearing the clothes in which she had freed Conrad,and she played a melody. Then Knight Conrad jumped up and fell into thesinger's arms. She threw off the clothes and stood there as the faithfulAnn Els.It is not necessary to say how happy Conrad was, nor that the gossipersdisappeared as soon as they possibly could, not letting themselves be seenagain, and that the festival ended even more joyfully than it hadbegun.