Now, O 'Efreet, continued the fisherman, know that if King Yoonan hadspared the sage Dooban, God had spared him. but he refused, and desiredhis destruction. therefore God destroyed him: and thou, O 'Efreet, ifthou hadst spared me, God had spared thee, and I had spared thee. butthou desiredst my death. therefore will I put thee to death imprisonedin this bottle, and will throw thee here into the sea. The Marid, uponthis, cried out, and said, I conjure thee by Allah, O fisherman, thatthou do it not: spare me in generosity, and be not angry with me forwhat I did. but if I have done evil, do thou good, according to theproverb, O thou benefactor of him who hath done evil, the action thathe hath done is sufficient for him: do not therefore as Umameh did to'Atikeh. And what, said the fisherman, was their case? The 'Efreetanswered, This is not a time for telling stories, when I am in thisprison. but when thou liberatest me, I will relate to thee theircase. The fisherman said, Thou must be thrown into the sea, andthere shall be no way of escape for thee from it. for I endeavoured topropitiate thee, and humbled myself before thee, yet thou wouldestnothing but my destruction, though I had committed no offence to deserveit, and had done no evil to thee whatever, but only good, deliveringthee from thy confinement. and when thou didst thus unto me, I perceivedthat thou wast radically corrupt: and I would have thee know, that mymotive for throwing thee into this sea, is, that I may acquaint with thystory every one that shall take thee out, and caution him against thee,that he may cast thee in again: thus shalt thou remain in this sea tothe end of time, and experience varieties of torment. The 'Efreet thensaid, Liberate me, for this is an opportunity for thee to displayhumanity. and I vow to thee that I will never do thee harm. but, on thecontrary, will do thee a service that shall enrich thee for ever.Upon this the fisherman accepted his covenant that he would not hurthim, but that he would do him good. and when he had bound him by oathsand vows, and made him swear by the Most Great Name of God, he opened tohim. and the smoke ascended until it had all come forth, and thencollected together, and became, as before, an 'Efreet of hideous form.The 'Efreet then kicked the bottle into the sea. When the fisherman sawhim do this, he made sure of destruction, and said, This is no sign ofgood: but afterwards he fortified his heart, and said, O 'Efreet, God,whose name be exalted, hath said, Perform the covenant, for the covenantshall be inquired into: and thou has covenanted with me, andsworn that thou wilt not act treacherously towards me. therefore, ifthou so act, God will recompense thee. for He is jealous. He respiteth,but suffereth not to escape. and remember that I said to thee as saidthe sage Dooban to King Yoonan, Spare me, and so may God spare thee.The 'Efreet laughed, and, walking on before him, said, O fisherman,follow me. The fisherman did so, not believing in his escape, until theyhad quitted the neighbourhood of the city, and ascended a mountain, anddescended into a wide desert tract, in the midst of which was a lake ofwater. Here the 'Efreet stopped, and ordered the fisherman to cast hisnet and take some fish. and the fisherman, looking into the lake, saw init fish of different colours, white and red and blue and yellow. atwhich he was astonished. and he cast his net, and drew it in, and foundin it four fish, each fish of a different colour from the others, at thesight of which he rejoiced. The 'Efreet then said to him, Take them tothe Sulan, and present them to him, and he will give theewhat will enrich thee. and for the sake of God accept my excuse, for, atpresent, I know no other way of rewarding thee, having been in the sea athousand and eight hundred years, and not seen the surface of the earthuntil now: but take not fish from the lake more than once each day: andnow I commend thee to the care of God. Having thus said, he struck theearth with his feet, and it clove asunder, and swallowed him.The fisherman then went back to the city, wondering at all that hadbefallen him with the 'Efreet, and carried the fish to his house. and hetook an earthen bowl, and, having filled it with water, put the fishinto it. and they struggled in the water: and when he had done this, heplaced the bowl upon his head, and repaired to the King's palace, as the'Efreet had commanded him, and, going up unto the King, presented to himthe fish. and the King was excessively astonished at them, for he hadnever seen any like them in the course of his life. and he said, Givethese fish to the slave cook maid. This maid had been sent as a presentto him by the King of the Greeks, three days before. and he had not yettried her skill. The Wezeer, therefore, ordered her to fry the fish, andsaid to her, O maid, the King saith unto thee, I have not reserved mytear but for the time of my difficulty: to day, then, gratify us by aspecimen of thy excellent cookery, for a person hath brought these fishas a present to the Sulan. After having thus charged her, the Wezeerreturned, and the King ordered him to give the fisherman four hundredpieces of gold: so the Wezeer gave them to him. and he took them in hislap, and returned to his home and his wife, joyful and happy, and boughtwhat was needful for his family.Such were the events that befell the fisherman: now we must relate whathappened to the maid. She took the fish, and cleaned them, and arrangedthem in the frying pan, and left them until one side was cooked, whenshe turned them upon the other side. and lo, the wall of the kitchenclove asunder, and there came forth from it a damsel of tall stature,smooth cheeked, of perfect form, with eyes adorned withkol, beautiful in countenance, and with heavy, swellinghips. wearing a koofeeyeh interwoven with blue silk. withrings in her ears, and bracelets on her wrists, and rings set withprecious jewels on her fingers. and in her hand was a rod of Indiancane: and she dipped the end of the rod in the frying pan, and said, Ofish, are ye remaining faithful to your covenant? At the sight of this,the cook maid fainted. The damsel then repeated the same words a secondand a third time. after which the fish raised their heads from thefrying pan, and answered, Yes, yes. They then repeated the followingverse: If thou return, we return. and if thou come, we come. and if thouforsake, we verily do the same.And upon this the damsel overturned the frying pan, and departed by theway she had entered, and the wall of the kitchen closed up again. Thecook maid then arose, and beheld the four fish burnt like charcoal. andshe exclaimed, In his first encounter his staff broke! and as she satreproaching herself, she beheld the Wezeer standing at her head. and hesaid to her, Bring the fish to the Sulan: and she wept, and informedhim of what had happened.The Wezeer was astonished at her words, and exclaimed, This is indeed awonderful event. and he sent for the fisherman, and when he wasbrought, he said to him, O fisherman, thou must bring to us four fishlike those which thou broughtest before. The fisherman accordingly wentforth to the lake, and threw his net, and when he had drawn it in hefound in it four fish as before. and he took them to the Wezeer, whowent with them to the maid, and said to her, Rise, and fry them in mypresence, that I may witness this occurrence. The maid, therefore,prepared the fish, and put them in the frying pan, and they had remainedbut a little while, when the wall clove asunder, and the damselappeared, clad as before, and holding the rod. and she dipped the end ofthe rod in the frying pan, and said, O fish, O fish, are ye remainingfaithful to your old covenant? Upon which they raised their heads, andanswered as before. and the damsel overturned the frying pan with therod, and returned by the way she had entered, and the wall closed upagain.The Wezeer then said, This is an event which cannot be concealed fromthe King: so he went to him, and informed him of what had happened inhis presence. and the King said, I must see this with my own eyes. Hesent, therefore, to the fisherman, and commanded him to bring four fishlike the former. granting him a delay of three days. And the fishermanrepaired to the lake, and brought the fish thence to the King, whoordered again that four hundred pieces of gold should be given to him.and then, turning to the Wezeer, said to him, Cook the fish thyself herebefore me. The Wezeer answered, I hear and obey. He brought thefrying pan, and, after he had cleaned the fish, threw them into it. andas soon as he had turned them, the wall clove asunder, and there cameforth from it a negro, in size like a bull, or like one of the tribe of'Ad, having in his hand a branch of a green tree. and he said,with a clear but terrifying voice, O fish, O fish, are ye remainingfaithful to your old covenant? Upon which they raised their heads, andanswered as before, Yes, yes:If thou return, we return. and if thou come, we come. and if thouforsake, we verily do the same.The black then approached the frying pan, and overturned it with thebranch, and the fish became like charcoal, and he went away as he hadcome.When he had thus disappeared from before their eyes, the King said, Thisis an event respecting which it is impossible to keep silence, and theremust, undoubtedly, be some strange circumstance connected with thesefish. He then ordered that the fisherman should be brought before him,and when he had come, he said to him, Whence came these fish? Thefisherman answered, From a lake between four mountains behind thismountain which is without thy city. The King said to him, How many days'journey distant? He answered, O our lord the Sulan, ajourney of half an hour. And the Sulan was astonished, and ordered histroops to go out immediately with him and the fisherman, who began tocurse the 'Efreet. They proceeded until they had ascended the mountain,and descended into a wide desert tract which they had never before seenin their whole lives. and the Sulan and all the troops wondered at thesight of this desert, which was between four mountains, and at the fish,which were of four colours, red and white and yellow and blue. The Kingpaused in astonishment, and said to the troops, and to the otherattendants who were with him, Hath any one of you before seen this lakein this place? They all answered, No. Then said the King, By Allah, Iwill not enter my city, nor will I sit upon my throne, until I know thetrue history of this lake, and of its fish. And upon this he orderedhis people to encamp around these mountains. and they did so. He thencalled for the Wezeer, who was a well informed, sensible, prudent, andlearned man. and when he had presented himself before him, he said tohim, I desire to do a thing with which I will acquaint thee. and it isthis: I have resolved to depart alone this night, to seek forinformation respecting this lake and its fish: therefore, sit thou atthe door of my pavilion, and say to the Emeers and Wezeers andChamberlains, The Sulan is sick, and hath commanded me not to allow anyperson to go in unto him: and acquaint no one with my intention.The Wezeer was unable to oppose his design. so the King disguisedhimself, and slung on his sword, and withdrew himself from the midst ofhis troops. He journeyed the whole of the night, until the morning, andproceeded until the heat became oppressive to him: he then paused torest. after which he again proceeded the remainder of the day and thesecond night until the morning, when there appeared before him, in thedistance, something black, at the sight of which he rejoiced, and said,Perhaps I shall there find some person who will inform me of the historyof the lake and its fish. And when he approached this black object, hefound it to be a palace built of black stones, and overlaid with iron.and one of the leaves of its doors was open, and the other shut. TheKing was glad, and he stood at the door, and knocked gently, but heardno answer. he knocked a second and a third time, but again heard noanswer: then he knocked a fourth time, and with violence. but no oneanswered. So he said, It is doubtless empty: and he took courage, andentered from the door into the passage, and cried out, saying, Oinhabitants of the palace, I am a stranger and a traveller! have ye anyprovision? And he repeated these words a second and a third time. butheard no answer. And upon this he fortified his heart, and emboldenedhimself, and proceeded from the passage into the midst of the palace.but he found no one there, and only saw that it was furnished, and thatthere was, in the centre of it, a fountain with four lions of red gold,which poured forth the water from their mouths, like pearls and jewels:around this were birds. and over the top of the palace was extended anet which prevented their flying out. At the sight of these objects hewas astonished, and he was grieved that he saw no person there whom hecould ask for information respecting the lake, and the fish, and themountains, and the palace. He then sat down between the doors,reflecting upon these things. and as he thus sat, he heard a voice oflamentation from a sorrowful heart, chanting these verses: O fortune, thou pitiest me not, nor releasest me! See my heart isstraitened between affliction and peril!Will not you have compassion on the mighty whom lovehath abased, and the wealthy who is reduced to indigence?We were jealous even of the zephyr which passed over you: but whenthe divine decree is issued, the eye becometh blind!What resource hath the archer when, in the hour of conflict,he desireth to discharge the arrow, but findeth his bow stringbroken.And when troubles are multiplied upon the noble minded, where shallhe find refuge from fate and from destiny?When the Sulan heard this lamentation, he sprang upon his feet, and,seeking the direction whence it proceeded, found a curtain suspendedbefore the door of a chamber. and he raised it, and beheld behind it ayoung man sitting on a couch raised to the height of a cubit from thefloor. He was a handsome youth, well shaped, and of eloquent speech,with shining forehead, and rosy cheek, marked with a mole resemblingambergris. The King was rejoiced at seeing him, and saluted him. and theyoung man (who remained sitting, and was clad with a vest of silk,embroidered with gold, but who exhibited traces of grief) returned hissalutation, and said to him, O my master, excuse my not rising. Oyouth! said the King, inform me respecting the lake, and its fish ofvarious colours, and respecting this palace, and the reason of thy beingalone in it, and of thy lamentation. When the young man heard thesewords, tears trickled down his cheeks, and he wept bitterly.And the King was astonished, and said to him, What causeth thee to weep,O youth? He answered, How can I refrain from weeping, when this is mystate? and so saying, he stretched forth his hand, and lifted up theskirts of his clothing. and lo, half of him, from his waist to the solesof his feet, was stone. and from his waist to the hair of his head, hewas like other men. He then said, Know, O King, that the story of thefish is extraordinary. if it were engraved upon the intellect, it wouldbe a lesson to him who would be admonished: and he related asfollows: 