And thou, O King, continued the Wezeer of King Yoonan, if thou trust inthis sage, he will kill thee in the foulest manner. If thou continue tobestow favours upon him, and to make him thine intimate companion, hewill plot thy destruction. Dost thou not see that he hath cured thee ofthe disease by external means, by a thing that thou heldest in thy hand?Therefore thou art not secure against his killing thee by a thing thatthou shalt hold in the same manner. King Yoonan answered, Thou hastspoken truth: the case is as thou hast said, O faithful Wezeer: it isprobable that this sage came as a spy to accomplish my death. and if hecured me by a thing I held in my hand, he may destroy me by a thing thatI may smell: what then, O Wezeer, shall be done respecting him? TheWezeer answered, Send to him immediately, and desire him to come hither.and when he is come, strike off his head, and so shalt thou avert fromthee his evil design, and be secure from him. Betray him before hebetray thee. The King said, Thou hast spoken right.Immediately, therefore, he sent for the sage, who came, full of joy, notknowing what the Compassionate had decreed against him, andaddressed the King with these words of the poet: If I fail any day to render thee due thanks, tell me for whom I havecomposed my verse and prose.Thou hast loaded me with favours unsolicited, bestowed without delayon thy part, or excuse.How then should I abstain from praising thee as thou deservest,and lauding thee both with my heart and voice?Nay, I will thank thee for thy benefits conferred upon me: they arelight upon my tongue, though weighty to my back.Knowest thou, said the King, wherefore I have summoned thee? The sageanswered, None knoweth what is secret but God, whose name be exalted!Then said the King, I have summoned thee that I may take away thy life.The sage, in the utmost astonishment at this announcement, said, O King,wherefore wouldst thou kill me, and what offence hath been committed byme? The King answered, It hath been told me that thou art a spy, andthat thou hast come hither to kill me: but I will prevent thee bykilling thee first: and so saying, he called out to the executioner,Strike off the head of this traitor, and relieve me from hiswickedness, Spare me, said the sage, and so may God spare thee. anddestroy me not, lest God destroy thee. And he repeated these wordsseveral times, like as I did, O 'Efreet. but thou wouldst not let me go,desiring to destroy me.King Yoonan then said to the sage Dooban, I shall not be secure unlessI kill thee. for thou curedst me by a thing that I held in my hand, andI have no security against thy killing me by a thing that I may smell,or by some other means. O King, said the sage, is this my recompensefrom thee? Dost thou return evil for good? The King answered, Thou mustbe slain without delay. When the sage, therefore, was convinced that theKing intended to put him to death, and that his fate was inevitable, helamented the benefit that he had done to the undeserving. Theexecutioner then advanced, and bandaged his eyes, and, having drawn hissword, said, Give permission. Upon this the sage wept, and said again,Spare me, and so may God spare thee. and destroy me not, lest Goddestroy thee! Wouldst thou return me the recompense of thecrocodile? What, said the King, is the story of the crocodile? The sageanswered, I cannot relate it while in this condition. but Iconjure thee by Allah to spare me, and so may He spare thee. And he weptbitterly. Then one of the chief officers of the King arose, and said, OKing, give up to me the blood of this sage. for we have not seen himcommit any offence against thee. nor have we seen him do aught but curethee of thy disease, which wearied the other physicians and sages. TheKing answered, Ye know not the reason wherefore I would kill the sage:it is this, that if I suffered him to live, I should myself inevitablyperish. for he who cured me of the disease under which I suffered by athing that I held in my hand, may kill me by a thing that I may smell.and I fear that he would do so, and would receive an appointment onaccount of it. seeing that it is probable he is a spy who hath comehither to kill me. I must therefore kill him, and then shall I feelmyself safe. The sage then said again, Spare me, and so may God sparethee. and destroy me not, lest God destroy thee.But he now felt certain, O 'Efreet, that the King would put him todeath, and that there was no escape for him. so he said, O King, if mydeath is indispensable, grant me some respite, that I may return to myhouse, and acquit myself of my duties, and give directions to my familyand neighbours to bury me, and dispose of my medical books. and among mybooks is one of most especial value, which I offer as a present to thee,that thou mayest treasure it in thy library. And what, said the King,is this book? He answered, It contains things not to be enumerated. andthe smallest of the secret virtues that it possesses is this. that, whenthou hast cut off my head, if thou open this book, and count threeleaves, and then read three lines on the page to the left, the head willspeak to thee, and answer whatever thou shalt ask. At this the King wasexcessively astonished, and shook with delight, and said to him, O Sage,when I have cut off thy head will it speak? He answered, Yes, O King.and this is a wonderful thing.The King then sent him in the custody of guards. and the sage descendedto his house, and settled all his affairs on that day. and on thefollowing day he went up to the court: and the Emeers and Wezeers, andChamberlains and Deputies, and all the great officers of the state, wentthither also: and the court resembled a flower garden. And whenthe sage had entered, he presented himself before the King, bearing anold book, and a small pot containing a powder: and he sat down, andsaid, Bring me a tray. So they brought him one. and he poured out thepowder into it, and spread it. He then said, O King, take this book, anddo nothing with it until thou hast cut off my head. and when thou hastdone so, place it upon this tray, and order some one to press it downupon the powder. and when this is done, the blood will be stanched: thenopen the book. As soon as the sage had said this, the King gave ordersto strike off his head. and it was done. The King then opened the book,and found that its leaves were stuck together. so he put his finger tohis mouth, and moistened it with his spittle, and opened the first leaf,and the second, and the third. but the leaves were not opened withoutdifficulty. He opened six leaves, and looked at them. but found uponthem no writing. So he said, O Sage, there is nothing written in it. Thehead of the sage answered, Turn over more leaves. The King did so. andin a little while, the poison penetrated into his system. for the bookwas poisoned. and the King fell back, and cried out, The poison hathpenetrated into me! and upon this, the head of the sage Dooban repeatedthese verses: They made use of their power, and used it tyrannically. and soonit became as though it never had existed.Had they acted equitably, they had experienced equity. but theyoppressed. wherefore fortune oppressed them with calamitiesand trials.Then did the case itself announce to them, This is the reward ofyour conduct, and fortune is blameless.And when the head of the sage Dooban had uttered these words, the Kingimmediately fell down dead.