There was once a king who had lost a valuable ring. He looked for iteverywhere, but could not find it. So he issued a proclamation that if anyastrologer could tell him where it was he would be richly rewarded.A poor peasant by the name of Crab heard of the proclamation. He couldneither read nor write, but took it into his head that he wanted to be theastrologer to find the king's ring. So he went and presented himself tothe king, to whom he said, "Your majesty must know that I am anastrologer, although you see me so poorly dressed. I know that you havelost a ring and I will try by study to find out where it is.""Very well," said the king, "and when you have found it, what rewardmust I give you?""That is at your discretion, your majesty.""Go, then, study, and we shall see what kind of an astrologer you turnout to be."He was conducted to a room, in which he was to be shut up to study. Itcontained only a bed and a table on which were a large book and writingmaterials. Crab seated himself at the table and did nothing but turn overthe leaves of the book and scribble the paper so that the servants whobrought him his food thought him a great man. They were the ones who hadstolen the ring, and from the severe glances that the peasant cast at themwhenever they entered, they began to fear that they would be found out.They made him endless bows and never opened their mouths without callinghim "Mr. Astrologer."Crab, who, although illiterate, was, as a peasant, cunning, all at onceimagined that the servants must know about the ring, and this is the wayhis suspicions were confirmed. He had been shut up in his room turningover his big book and scribbling his paper for a month, when his wife cameto visit him. He said to her, "Hide yourself under the bed, and when aservant enters, say, 'That is one.' When another comes, say, 'That istwo,' and so on."The woman hid herself. The servants came with the dinner, and hardlyhad the first on entered when a voice from under the bed said, "That isone." The second one entered. the voice said, "That is two," and soon.The servants were frightened at hearing that voice, for they did notknow where it came from, and held a consultation. One of them said, "Weare discovered. If the astrologer denounces us to the king as thieves, weare lost.""Do you know what we must do?" said another."Let us hear.""We must go to the astrologer and tell him frankly that we stole thering, and ask him not to betray us, and present him with a purse of money.Are you willing?""Perfectly."So they went in harmony to the astrologer, and making him a lower bowthan usual, one of them began, "Mr. Astrologer, you have discovered thatwe stole the ring. We are poor people and if you reveal it to the king, weare undone. So we beg you not to betray us, and accept this purse ofmoney."Crab took the purse and then added, "I will not betray you, but youmust do what I tell you, if you wish to save your lives. Take the ring andmake that turkey in the courtyard swallow it, and leave the rest tome."The servants were satisfied to do so and departed with a low bow. Thenext day Crab went to the king and said to him, "Your majesty must knowthat after having toiled over a month I have succeeded in discoveringwhere the ring has gone to.""Where is it, then?" asked the king."A turkey has swallowed it.""A turkey? Very well, let us see."They went for the turkey, opened it, and found the ring inside. Theking, amazed, presented the astrologer with a large purse of money andinvited him to a banquet. Among the other dishes, there was brought on thetable a plate of crabs. Crabs must then have been very rare, because onlythe king and a few others knew their name. Turning to the peasant the kingsaid, "You, who are an astrologer, must be able to tell me the name ofthese things which are in this dish."The poor astrologer was very much puzzled, and, as if speaking tohimself, but in such a way that the others heard him, he muttered, "Ah!Crab, Crab, what a plight you are in!" All who did not know that his namewas Crab rose and proclaimed him the greatest astrologer in the world.