(The Birth of Cuchulain.)In the long time ago, Conchubar, son of Ness, was King of Ulster, and heheld his court in the palace of Emain Macha. And this is the way he cameto be King. He was but a young lad, and his father was not living, andFergus, son of Rogh, who was at that time King of Ulster, asked hismother Ness in marriage.Now Ness, that was at one time the quietest and kindest of the women ofIreland, had got to be unkind and treacherous because of an unkindnessthat had been done to her, and she planned to get the kingdom away fromFergus for her own son. So she said to Fergus, "Let Conchubar hold thekingdom for a year, so that his children after him may be called thechildren of a king. and that is the marriage portion I will ask of you.""You may do that," the men of Ulster said to him. "for even thoughConchubar gets the name of being king, it is yourself that will be ourKing all the time." So Fergus agreed to it, and he took Ness as hiswife, and her son Conchubar was made King in his place.But all through the year Ness was working to keep the kingdom for him,and she gave great presents to the chief men of Ulster to get them onher side. And though Conchubar was but a young lad at the time, he waswise in his judgments and brave in battle, and good in shape and inform, and they liked him well. And at the end of the year, when Fergusasked to have the kingship back again, they consulted together. and itis what they agreed, that Conchubar was to keep it. And they said, "Itis little Fergus thinks about us, when he was so ready to give up hisrule over us for a year. and let Conchubar keep the kingship," theysaid, "and let Fergus keep the wife he has got."Now, it happened one day that Conchubar was making a feast at EmainMacha for the marriage of his sister Dechtire with Sualtim, son of Roig.And at the feast Dechtire was thirsty, and they gave her a cup of wine,and as she was drinking it a mayfly flew into the cup, and she drank itdown with the wine. And presently she went into her sunny parlour, andher fifty maidens along with her, and she fell into a deep sleep. And inher sleep Lugh of the Long Hand appeared to her, and he said, "It is Imyself was the mayfly that came to you in the cup, and it is with me youmust come away now, and your fifty maidens along with you." And he puton them the appearance of a flock of birds, and they went with himsouthward till they came to Brugh na Boinne, the dwelling place of theSidhe. And no one at Emain Macha could get tale or tidings of them, orknow where they had gone, or what had happened them.It was about a year after that time there was another feast in Emain,and Conchubar and his chief men were sitting at the feast. And suddenlythey saw from the window a great flock of birds, that lit on the groundand began to eat up everything before them, so that not so much as ablade of grass was left.The men of Ulster were vexed when they saw the birds destroying allbefore them, and they yoked nine of their chariots to follow after them.Conchubar was in his own chariot, and there were following with himFergus, son of Rogh, and Laegaire Buadach the Battle Winner, andCelthair, son of Uithecar, and many others, and Bricriu of the bittertongue was along with them.They followed after the birds across the whole country southward, acrossSlieve Fuad, by Ath Lethan, by Ath Garach and Magh Gossa, between FirRois and Fir Ardae. and the birds before them always. They were the mostbeautiful that had ever been seen. nine flocks of them there were,linked together two and two with a chain of silver, and at the head ofevery flock there were two birds of different colours, linked togetherwith a chain of gold. and there were three birds that flew bythemselves, and they all went before the chariots to the far end of thecountry, until the fall of night, and then there was no more seen ofthem.And when the dark night was coming on, Conchubar said to his people, "Itis best for us to unyoke the chariots now, and to look for some placewhere we can spend the night."Then Fergus went forward to look for some place, and what he came to wasa very small poor looking house. A man and a woman were in it, and whenthey saw him they said, "Bring your companions here along with you, andthey will be welcome." Fergus went back to his companions and told themwhat he had seen. But Bricriu said: "Where is the use of going into ahouse like that, with neither room nor provisions nor coverings in it.it is not worth our while to be going there."Then Bricriu went on himself to the place where the house was. But whenhe came to it, what he saw was a grand, new, well lighted house. and atthe door there was a young man wearing armour, very tall and handsomeand shining. And he said, "Come into the house, Bricriu. why are youlooking about you?" And there was a young woman beside him, fine andnoble, and with curled hair, and she said, "Surely there is a welcomebefore you from me." "Why does she welcome me?" said Bricriu. "It is onaccount of her that I myself welcome you," said the young man. "And isthere no one missing from you at Emain?" he said. "There is, surely,"said Bricriu. "We are missing fifty young girls for the length of ayear." "Would you know them again if you saw them?" said the young man."If I would not know them," said Bricriu, "it is because a year mightmake a change in them, so that I would not be sure." "Try and know themagain," said the man, "for the fifty young girls are in this house, andthis woman beside me is their mistress, Dechtire. It was theythemselves, changed into birds, that went to Emain Macha to bring youhere." Then Dechtire gave Bricriu a purple cloak with gold fringes. andhe went back to find his companions. But while he was going he thoughtto himself, "Conchubar would give great treasure to find these fiftyyoung girls again, and his sister along with them. I will not tell him Ihave found them. I will only say I have found a house with beautifulwomen in it, and no more than that."When Conchubar saw Bricriu he asked news of him."What news do you bring back with you, Bricriu?" he said. "I came to afine well lighted house," said Bricriu. "I saw a queen, noble, kind,with royal looks, with curled hair. I saw a troop of women, beautiful,well dressed. I saw the man of the house, tall and open handed andshining." "Let us go there for the night," said Conchubar. So theybrought their chariots and their horses and their arms. and they werehardly in the house when every sort of food and of drink, some they knewand some they did not know, was put before them, so that they neverspent a better night. And when they had eaten and drunk and began to besatisfied, Conchubar said to the young man, "Where is the mistress ofthe house that she does not come to bid us welcome?" "You cannot see herto night," said he, "for she is in the pains of childbirth."So they rested there that night, and in the morning Conchubar was thefirst to rise up. but he saw no more of the man of the house, and whathe heard was the cry of a child. And he went to the room it came from,and there he saw Dechtire, and her maidens about her, and a young childbeside her. And she bade Conchubar welcome, and she told him all thathad happened her, and that she had called him there to bring herself andthe child back to Emain Macha. And Conchubar said, "It is well you havedone by me, Dechtire. you gave shelter to me and to my chariots. youkept the cold from my horses. you gave food to me and my people, and nowyou have given us this good gift. And let our sister, Finchoem, bring upthe child," he said. "No, it is not for her to bring him up, it is forme," said Sencha, son of Ailell, chief judge and chief poet of Ulster."For I am skilled. I am good in disputes. I am not forgetful. I speakbefore anyone at all in the presence of the King. I watch over what hesays. I give judgment in the quarrels of kings. I am judge of the men ofUlster. no one has a right to dispute my claim, but only Conchubar.""If the child is given to me to bring up," said Blai, the distributor,"he will not suffer from want of care or from forgetfulness. It is mymessages that do the will of Conchubar. I call up the fighting men fromall Ireland. I am well able to provide for them for a week, or even forten days. I settle their business and their disputes. I support theirhonour. I get satisfaction for their insults.""You think too much of yourself," said Fergus. "It is I that will bringup the child. I am strong. I have knowledge. I am the King's messenger.no one can stand up against me in honour or riches. I am hardened to warand battles. I am a good craftsman. I am worthy to bring up the child. Iam the protector of all the unhappy. the strong are afraid of me. I amthe helper of the weak.""If you will listen to me at last, now you are quiet," said Amergin, "Iam able to bring up a child like a king. The people praise my honour, mybravery, my courage, my wisdom. they praise my good luck, my age, myspeaking, my name, my courage, and my race. Though I am a fighter, I ama poet. I am worthy of the King's favour. I overcome all the men whofight from their chariots. I owe thanks to no one except Conchubar. Iobey no one but the King."Then Sencha said, "Let Finchoem keep the child until we come to Emain,and Morann, the judge, will settle the question when we are there."So the men of Ulster set out for Emain, Finchoem having the child withher. And when they came there Morann gave his judgment. "It is forConchubar," he said, "to help the child to a good name, for he is nextof kin to him. let Sencha teach him words and speaking. let Fergus holdhim on his knees. let Amergin be his tutor." And he said, "This childwill be praised by all, by chariot drivers and fighters, by kings and bywise men. he shall be loved by many men. he will avenge all your wrongs.he will defend your fords. he will fight all your battles."And so it was settled. And the child was left until he should come tosensible years with his mother Dechtire and with her husband Sualtim.And they brought him up upon the plain of Muirthemne, and the name hewas known by was Setanta, son of Sualtim.