People may have heard of the renowned adventures of Daniel O'Rourke, buthow few are there who know that the cause of all his perils, above andbelow, was neither more nor less than his having slept under the wallsof the Pooka's Tower. I knew the man well. He lived at the bottom ofHungry Hill, just at the right hand side of the road as you go towardsBantry. An old man was he at the time he told me the story, with greyhair and a red nose. and it was on the 25th of June, 1813, that I heardit from his own lips, as he sat smoking his pipe under the old poplartree, on as fine an evening as ever shone from the sky. I was going tovisit the caves in Dursey Island, having spent the morning atGlengariff."I am often axed to tell it, sir," said he, "so that this is not thefirst time. The master's son, you see, had come from beyond foreignparts in France and Spain, as young gentlemen used to go beforeBuonaparte or any such was heard of. and, sure enough, there was adinner given to all the people on the ground, gentle and simple, highand low, rich and poor. The _ould_ gentlemen were the gentlemen, afterall, saving your honour's presence. They'd swear at a body a little, tobe sure, and, maybe, give one a cut of a whip now and then, but we wereno losers by it in the end. and they were so easy and civil, and keptsuch rattling houses, and thousands of welcomes. and there was nogrinding for rent, and there was hardly a tenant on the estate that didnot taste of his landlord's bounty often and often in a year. but nowit's another thing. No matter for that, sir, for I'd better be tellingyou my story."Well, we had everything of the best, and plenty of it. and we ate, andwe drank, and we danced, and the young master, by the same token, dancedwith Peggy Barry, from the Bohereen a lovely young couple they were,though they are both low enough now. To make a long story short, I got,as a body may say, the same thing as tipsy almost, for I can't remember,ever at all, no ways, how it was I left the place. only I did leave it,that's certain. Well, I thought, for all that, in myself, I'd just stepto Molly Cronohan's, the fairy woman, to speak a word about the bracketheifer that was bewitched. and so, as I was crossing the stepping stonesof the ford of Ballyashenogh, and was looking up at the stars, andblessing myself for why? it was Lady day I missed my foot, and souse Ifell into the water. 'Death alive!' thought I, 'I'll be drowned now!'However, I began swimming, swimming, swimming away for dear life, tillat last I got ashore, somehow or other, but never the one of me can tellhow, upon a _dissolute_ island."I wandered and wandered about there, without knowing where I wandered,until at last I got into a big bog. The moon was shining as bright asday, or your fair lady's eyes, sir (with your pardon for mentioningher), and I looked east and west, north and south, and every way, andnothing did I see but bog, bog, bog. I could never find out how I gotinto it. and my heart grew cold with fear, for sure and certain I wasthat it would be my _berrin'_ place. So I sat upon a stone, which, asgood luck would have it, was close by me, and I began to scratch myhead, and sing the ULLAGONE when all of a sudden the moon grew black,and I looked up and saw something for all the world as if it was movingdown between me and it, and I could not tell what it was. Down it camewith a pounce, and looked at me full in the face. and what was it but aneagle? as fine a one as ever flew from the kingdom of Kerry! So helooked at me in the face, and says he to me, 'Daniel O'Rourke,' says he,'how do you do?' 'Very well, I thank you, sir,' says I. 'I hope you'rewell'. wondering out of my senses all the time how an eagle came tospeak like a Christian. 'What brings you here, Dan?' says he. 'Nothingat all, sir,' says I, 'only I wish I was safe home again.' 'Is it out ofthe island you want to go, Dan?' says he. ''Tis, sir,' says I. so I upand told him how I had taken a drop too much, and fell into the water.how I swam to the island. and how I got into the bog and did not know myway out of it. 'Dan,' says he, after a minute's thought, 'though it isvery improper of you to get drunk on a Lady day, yet, as you are adecent sober man, who 'tends mass well, and never fling stones at me ormine, nor cries out after one in the field, my life for yours,' says he.'so get up on my back, and grip me well for fear you'd fall off, andI'll fly you out of the bog.' 'I am afraid,' says I, 'your honour'smaking game of me. for whoever heard of riding a horseback on an eaglebefore?' ''Pon the honour of a gentleman,' says he, putting his rightfoot on his breast, 'I am quite in earnest. and so now either take myoffer or starve in the bog besides I see that your weight is sinkingthe stone.'"It was true enough, as he said, for I found the stone every minutegoing from under me. I had no choice. so, thinks I to myself, faintheart never won fair lady, and this is fair persuadance. 'I thank yourhonour,' says I, 'for the loan of your civility. and I'll take your kindoffer.' I therefore mounted on the back of the eagle, and held him tightenough by the throat, and up he flew in the air like a lark. Little Iknew the trick he was going to serve me. Up, up, up God knows how farhe flew. 'Why, then,' said I to him thinking he did not know the rightroad home very civilly, because why? I was in his power entirely.'sir,' says I, 'please your honour's glory, and with humble submissionto your better judgment, if you'd fly down a bit, you're now just overmy cabin, and I could be put down there, and many thanks to yourworship.'"'_Arrah_, Dan,' says he, 'do you think me a fool? Look down in the nextfield, and don't you see two men and a gun? By my word, it would be nojoke to shoot this way, to oblige a drunken blackguard that I picked upoff a _could_ stone in a bog.' 'Bother you,' says I to myself, but Idid not speak out, for where was the use? Well, sir, up he kept flying,flying, and I asking him every minute to fly down, and all to no use.'Where in the world are you going, sir?' says I to him. 'Hold yourtongue, Dan,' says he, 'and mind your own business, and don't beinterfering with the business of other people.' 'Faith, this is mybusiness, I think,' says I. 'Be quiet, Dan!' says he: so I said no more."At last, where should we come to but to the moon itself. Now, you can'tsee it from this, but there is, or there was in my time, a reaping hooksticking out of the side of the moon, this way (drawing the figure thuson the ground with the end of his stick)."'Dan,' says the eagle, 'I'm tired with this long fly. I had no notion'twas so far.' 'And my lord, sir,' says I, 'who in the world _axed_ youto fly so far was it I? Did not I beg and pray and beseech you to stophalf an hour ago?' 'There's no use talking, Dan,' said he. 'I'm tiredbad enough, so you must get off, and sit down on the moon until I restmyself.' 'Is it sit down on the moon?' said I. 'is it upon that littleround thing, then? Why, then, sure, I'd fall off in a minute, and be_kilt_ and spilt, and smashed all to bits. you are a vile deceiver soyou are.' 'Not at all, Dan,' says he. 'you can catch fast hold of thereaping hook that's sticking out of the side of the moon, and 'twillkeep you up.' 'I won't, then,' said I. 'Maybe not,' said he, quitequiet. 'If you don't, my man, I shall just give you a shake, and oneslap of my wing, and send you down to the ground, where every bone inyour body will be smashed as small as a drop of dew on a cabbage leafin the morning.' 'Why, then, I'm in a fine way,' said I to myself, 'everto have come along with the likes of you'. and so, giving him a heartycurse in Irish, for fear he'd know what I said, I got off his back witha heavy heart, took hold of the reaping hook and sat down upon the moon,and a mighty cold seat it was, I can tell you that."When he had me there fairly landed, he turned about on me, and said,'Good morning to you, Daniel O'Rourke,' said he. 'I think I've nickedyou fairly now. You robbed my nest last year' ('twas true enough forhim, but how he found it out is hard enough to say), 'and in return youare freely welcome to cool your heels dangling upon the moon like acockthrow.'"'Is that all, and is this how you leave me, you brute, you,' says I.'You ugly unnatural _baste_, and is this the way you serve me at last?Bad luck to yourself, with your hook'd nose, and to all your breed, youblackguard.' 'Twas all to no manner of use. he spread out his great bigwings, burst out a laughing, and flew away like lightning. I bawledafter him to stop. but I might have called and bawled for ever, withouthis minding me. Away he went, and I never saw him from that day tothis sorrow fly away with him! You may be sure I was in a disconsolatecondition, and kept roaring out for the bare grief, when all at once adoor opened right in the middle of the moon, creaking on its hinges asif it had not been opened for a month before I suppose they neverthought of greasing them and out there walks who do you think but theman in the moon himself? I knew him by his bush."'Good morrow to you, Daniel O'Rourke,' says he, 'how do you do?' 'Verywell, thank your honour,' says I. 'I hope your honour's well.' 'Whatbrought you here, Dan?' said he. So I told him how I was a littleovertaken in liquor at the master's, and how I was cast on a _dissolute_island, and how I lost my way in the bog, and the thief of an eaglepromised to fly me out of it, and how, instead of that, he had fled meup to the moon."'Dan,' said the man in the moon, taking a pinch of snuff, when I wasdone, 'you must not stay here.' 'Indeed, sir,' says I, ''tis muchagainst my will that I'm here at all. but how am I to go back?' 'That'syour business,' said he. 'Dan, mine is to tell you that you must notstay, so be off in less than no time.' 'I'm doing no harm,' said I,'only holding on hard by the reaping hook lest I fall off.' 'That's whatyou must not do, Dan,' says he. 'Pray, sir,' says I, 'may I ask how manyyou are in family that you would not give a poor traveller lodging? I'msure 'tis not often you're troubled with strangers coming to see you,for 'tis a long way.' 'I'm by myself, Dan,' says he, 'but you'd betterlet go the reaping hook.' 'Faith, and with your leave,' says I, 'I'llnot let go the grip, and the more you bids me the more I won't letgo so I will.' 'You had better, Dan,' says he again. 'Why, then, mylittle fellow,' says I, taking the whole weight of him with my eye fromhead to foot, 'there are two words to that bargain. and I'll notbudge you may, if you like.' 'We'll see how that is to be,' says he.and back he went, giving the door such a great bang after him (for itwas plain he was huffed), that I thought the moon and all would falldown with it."Well, I was preparing myself to try strength with him, when back hecomes, with the kitchen cleaver in his hand, and without saying a wordhe gives two bangs to the handle of the reaping hook that was holding meup, and _whap_ it came in two. 'Good morning to you, Dan,' says thespiteful little blackguard, when he saw me cleanly falling down with abit of the handle in my hand. 'I thank you for your visit, and fairweather after you, Daniel.' I had no time to make any answer to him, forI was tumbling over and over, and rolling and rolling, at the rate of afox hunt. 'God help me!' says I, 'but this is a pretty pickle for adecent man to be seen in at this time of the night. I am now soldfairly.' The word was not out of my mouth, when, whiz! what should flyby close to my ear but a flock of wild geese, all the way from my ownbog of Ballyasheenagh, else how should they know _me_? The _ould_gander, who was their general, turning about his head, cried out to me,'Is that you, Dan?' 'The same,' said I, not a bit daunted now at what hesaid, for I was by this time used to all kinds of _bedivilment_, and,besides, I knew him of _ould_. 'Good morrow to you,' says he, 'DanielO'Rourke. how are you in health this morning?' 'Very well, sir,' says I,'thank you kindly,' drawing my breath, for I was mightily in want ofsome, 'I hope your honour's the same.' 'I think 'tis falling you are,Daniel,' says he. 'You may say that, sir,' says I. 'And where are yougoing all the way so fast?' said the gander. So I told him how I hadtaken the drop, and how I came on the island, and how I lost my way inthe bog, and how the thief of an eagle flew me up to the moon, and howthe man in the moon turned me out. 'Dan,' said he, 'I'll save you. putout your hand and catch me by the leg, and I'll fly you home.' 'Sweet isyour hand in a pitcher of honey, my jewel,' says I, though all the timeI thought within myself that I don't much trust you. but there was nohelp, so I caught the gander by the leg, and away I and the other geeseflew after him as fast as hops."We flew, and we flew, and we flew, until we came right over the wideocean. I knew it well, for I saw Cape Clear to my right hand, stickingup out of the water. 'Ah, my lord,' said I to the goose, for I thoughtit best to keep a civil tongue in my head anyway, 'fly to land, if youplease.' 'It is impossible, you see, Dan,' said he, 'for a while,because, you see, we are going to Arabia.' 'To Arabia!' said I, 'that'ssurely some place in foreign parts, far away. Oh! Mr. Goose, why, then,to be sure, I'm a man to be pitied among you.'"'Whist, whist, you fool,' said he, 'hold your tongue. I tell you Arabiais a very decent sort of place, as like West Carbery as one egg is likeanother, only there is a little more sand there.'"Just as we were talking a ship hove in sight, sailing so beautifulbefore the wind. 'Ah, then, sir,' said I, 'will you drop me on the ship,if you please?' 'We are not fair over it,' said he. 'if I dropped younow you would go splash into the sea.' 'I would not,' says I, 'I knowbetter than that, for it is just clean under us, so let me drop now atonce.'"'If you must, you must,' said he. 'there, take your own way'. and heopened his claw, and, faith, he was right sure enough, I came downplump into the very bottom of the salt sea! Down to the very bottom Iwent, and I gave myself up, then, for ever, when a whale walked up tome, scratching himself after his night's sleep, and looked me full inthe face, and never the word did he say, but, lifting up his tail, hesplashed me all over again with the cold salt water till there wasn't adry stitch upon my whole carcass! And I heard somebody saying 'twas avoice I knew too 'Get up, you drunken brute, off o' that'. and withthat I woke up, and there was Judy with a tub full of water, which shewas splashing all over me for, rest her soul, though she was a goodwife, she could never bear to see me in drink, and had a bitter hand ofher own."'Get up,' said she again. 'and of all places in the parish, would noplace _sarve_ your turn to lie down upon but under the _ould_ walls ofCarrigapooka? An uneasy resting I am sure you had of it.' And, sureenough, I had, for I was fairly bothered out of my senses with eagles,and men of the moons, and flying ganders, and whales, driving me throughbogs and up to the moon, and down to the bottom of the green ocean. If Iwas in drink ten times over, long would it be before I'd lie down in thesame spot again, I know that!"T. CROFTON CROKER.