THERE was once upon a time a couple of rich folks who had twelve sons,and when the youngest was grown up he would not stay at home any longer,but would go out into the world and seek his fortune. His father andmother said that they thought he was very well off at home, and that hewas welcome to stay with them. but he could not rest, and said that hemust and would go, so at last they had to give him leave. When he hadwalked a long way, he came to a King's palace. There he asked for aplace and got it.Now the daughter of the King of that country had been carried off intothe mountains by a Troll, and the King had no other children, andfor this cause both he and all his people were full of sorrow andaffliction, and the King had promised the Princess and half his kingdomto anyone who could set her free. but there was no one who could do it,though a great number had tried. So when the youth had been there forthe space of a year or so, he wanted to go home again to pay his parentsa visit. but when he got there his father and mother were dead, and hisbrothers had divided everything that their parents possessed betweenthemselves, so that there was nothing at all left for him.'Shall I, then, receive nothing at all of my inheritance?' asked theyouth.'Who could know that you were still alive you who have been a wandererso long?' answered the brothers. 'However, there are twelve mares uponthe hills which we have not yet divided among us, and if you would liketo have them for your share, you may take them.'So the youth, well pleased with this, thanked them, and at once set offto the hill where the twelve mares were at pasture. When he got up thereand found them, each mare had her foal, and by the side of one of themwas a big dapple grey foal as well, which was so sleek that it shoneagain.'Well, my little foal, you are a fine fellow!' said the youth.'Yes, but if you will kill all the other little foals so that I can suckall the mares for a year, you shall see how big and handsome I shall bethen!' said the Foal.So the youth did this he killed all the twelve foals, and then wentback again.Next year, when he came home again to look after his mares and the foal,it was as fat as it could be, and its coat shone with brightness, andit was so big that the lad had the greatest difficulty in getting on itsback, and each of the mares had another foal.'Well, it's very evident that I have lost nothing by letting you suckall my mares,' said the lad to the yearling. 'but now you are quite bigenough, and must come away with me.''No,' said the Colt, 'I must stay here another year. kill the twelvelittle foals, and then I can suck all the mares this year also, and youshall see how big and handsome I shall be by summer.'So the youth did it again, and when he went up on the hill next year tolook after his colt and the mares, each of the mares had her foal again.but the dappled colt was so big that when the lad wanted to feel itsneck to see how fat it was, he could not reach up to it, it was so high?and it was so bright that the light glanced off its coat.'Big and handsome you were last year, my colt, but this year you areever so much handsomer,' said the youth. 'in all the King's court nosuch horse is to be found. But now you shall come away with me.''No,' said the dappled Colt once more. 'here I must stay for anotheryear. Just kill the twelve little foals again, so that I can suck themares this year also, and then come and look at me in the summer.'So the youth did it he killed all the little foals, and then went homeagain.But next year, when he returned to look after the dappled colt and themares, he was quite appalled. He had never imagined that any horse couldbecome so big and overgrown, for the dappled horse had to lie down onall fours before the youth could get on his back, and it was very hardto do that even when it was lying down, and it was so plump that itscoat shone and glistened just as if it had been a looking glass. Thistime the dappled horse was not unwilling to go away with the youth, sohe mounted it, and when he came riding home to his brothers they allsmote their hands together and crossed themselves, for never in theirlives had they either seen or heard tell of such a horse as that.'If you will procure me the best shoes for my horse, and the mostmagnificent saddle and bridle that can be found,' said the youth, 'youmay have all my twelve mares just as they are standing out on the hill,and their twelve foals into the bargain.' For this year also each marehad her foal. The brothers were quite willing to do this. so the lad gotsuch shoes for his horse that the sticks and stones flew high up intothe air as he rode away over the hills, and such a gold saddle and sucha gold bridle that they could be seen glittering and glancing from afar.'And now we will go to the King's palace,' said Dapplegrim that was thehorse's name, 'but bear in mind that you must ask the King for a goodstable and excellent fodder for me.'So the lad promised not to forget to do that. He rode to the palace, andit will be easily understood that with such a horse as he had he was notlong on the way.When he arrived there, the King was standing out on the steps, and howhe did stare at the man who came riding up!'Nay,' said he, 'never in my whole life have I seen such a man and sucha horse.'And when the youth inquired if he could have a place in the King'spalace, the King was so delighted that he could have danced on thesteps where he was standing, and there and then the lad was told that heshould have a place.'Yes. but I must have a good stable and most excellent fodder for myhorse,' said he.So they told him that he should have sweet hay and oats, and as much ofthem as the dappled horse chose to have, and all the other riders hadto take their horses out of the stable that Dapplegrim might stand aloneand really have plenty of room.But this did not last long, for the other people in the King's Courtbecame envious of the lad, and there was no bad thing that they wouldnot have done to him if they had but dared. At last they bethoughtthemselves of telling the King that the youth had said that, if hechose, he was quite able to rescue the Princess who had been carried offinto the mountain a long time ago by the Troll.The King immediately summoned the lad into his presence, and said thathe had been informed that he had said that it was in his power to rescuethe Princess, so he was now to do it. If he succeeded in this, he nodoubt knew that the King had promised his daughter and half the kingdomto anyone who set her free, which promise should be faithfully andhonourably kept, but if he failed he should be put to death. The youthdenied that he had said this, but all to no purpose, for the King wasdeaf to all his words. so there was nothing to be done but say that hewould make the attempt.He went down into the stable, and very sad and full of care he was. ThenDapplegrim inquired why he was so troubled, and the youth told him, andsaid that he did not know what to do, 'for as to setting the Princessfree, that was downright impossible.''Oh, but it might be done,' said Dapplegrim. 'I will help you. but youmust first have me well shod. You must ask for ten pounds of iron andtwelve pounds of steel for the shoeing, and one smith to hammer and oneto hold.'So the youth did this, and no one said him nay. He got both the ironand the steel, and the smiths, and thus was Dapplegrim shod strongly andwell, and when the youth went out of the King's palace a cloud of dustrose up behind him. But when he came to the mountain into which thePrincess had been carried, the difficulty was to ascend the precipitouswall of rock by which he was to get on to the mountain beyond, for therock stood right up on end, as steep as a house side and as smooth as asheet of glass. The first time the youth rode at it he got a little wayup the precipice, but then both Dapplegrim's fore legs slipped, and downcame horse and rider with a sound like thunder among the mountains. Thenext time that he rode at it he got a little farther up, but then one ofDapplegrim's fore legs slipped, and down they went with the sound of alandslip. But the third time Dapplegrim said: 'Now we must show what wecan do,' and went at it once more till the stones sprang up sky high,and thus they got up. Then the lad rode into the mountain cleft at fullgallop and caught up the Princess on his saddle bow, and then out againbefore the Troll even had time to stand up, and thus the Princess wasset free.When the youth returned to the palace the King was both happy anddelighted to get his daughter back again, as may easily be believed, butsomehow or other the people about the Court had so worked on him thathe was angry with the lad too. 'Thou shalt have my thanks for setting myPrincess free,' he said, when the youth came into the palace with her,and was then about to go away.She ought to be just as much my Princess as she is yours now, for youare a man of your word,' said the youth.'Yes, yes,' said the King. 'Have her thou shalt, as I have said it. butfirst of all thou must make the sun shine into my palace here.'For there was a large and high hill outside the windows whichovershadowed the palace so much that the sun could not shine in.'That was no part of our bargain,' answered the youth. 'But as nothingthat I can say will move you, I suppose I shall have to try to do mybest, for the Princess I will have.'So he went down to Dapplegrim again and told him what the King desired,and Dapplegrim thought that it might easily be done. but first of all hemust have new shoes, and ten pounds of iron and twelve pounds of steelmust go to the making of them, and two smiths were also necessary, oneto hammer and one to hold, and then it would be very easy to make thesun shine into the King's palace.The lad asked for these things and obtained them instantly, for the Kingthought that for very shame he could not refuse to give them, and soDapplegrim got new shoes, and they were good ones. The youth seatedhimself on him, and once more they went their way, and for each hop thatDapplegrim made, down went the hill fifteen ells into the earth, and sothey went on until there was no hill left for the King to see.When the youth came down again to the King's palace he asked the Kingif the Princess should not at last be his, for now no one could say thatthe sun was not shining into the palace. But the other people in thepalace had again stirred up the King, and he answered that the youthshould have her, and that he had never intended that he should not.but first of all he must get her quite as good a horse to ride to thewedding on as that which he had himself. The youth said that the Kinghad never told him he was to do that, and it seemed to him that he hadnow really earned the Princess. but the King stuck to what he had said,and if the youth were unable to do it he was to lose his life, theKing said. The youth went down to the stable again, and very sad andsorrowful he was, as anyone may well imagine. Then he told Dapplegrimthat the King had now required that he should get the Princess as gooda bridal horse as that which the bridegroom had, or he should lose hislife. 'But that will be no easy thing to do,' said he, 'for your equalis not to be found in all the world.''Oh yes, there is one to match me,' said Dapplegrim. 'But it will notbe easy to get him, for he is underground. However, we will try. Nowyou must go up to the King and ask for new shoes for me, and for themwe must again have ten pounds of iron, twelve pounds of steel, and twosmiths, one to hammer and one to hold, but be very particular to seethat the hooks are very sharp. And you must also ask for twelve barrelsof rye, and twelve slaughtered oxen must we have with us, and all thetwelve ox hides with twelve hundred spikes set in each of them. allthese things must we have, likewise a barrel of tar with twelve tons oftar in it. The youth went to the King and asked for all the things thatDapplegrim had named, and once more, as the King thought that it wouldbe disgraceful to refuse them to him, he obtained them all.So he mounted Dapplegrim and rode away from the Court, and when he hadridden for a long, long time over hills and moors, Dapplegrim asked: 'Doyou hear anything?''Yes. there is such a dreadful whistling up above in the air that Ithink I am growing alarmed,' said the youth.'That is all the wild birds in the forest flying about. they are sent tostop us,' said Dapplegrim. 'But just cut a hole in the corn sacks, andthen they will be so busy with the corn that they will forget us.'The youth did it. He cut holes in the corn sacks so that barley and ryeran out on every side, and all the wild birds that were in the forestcame in such numbers that they darkened the sun. But when they caughtsight of the corn they could not refrain from it, but flew down andbegan to scratch and pick at the corn and rye, and at last they began tofight among themselves, and forgot all about the youth and Dapplegrim,and did them no harm.And now the youth rode onwards for a long, long time, over hill anddale, over rocky places and morasses, and then Dapplegrim began tolisten again, and asked the youth if he heard anything now.'Yes. now I hear such a dreadful crackling and crashing in the forest onevery side that I think I shall be really afraid,' said the youth.'That is all the wild beasts in the forest,' said Dapplegrim. 'theyare sent out to stop us. But just throw out the twelve carcasses of theoxen, and they will be so much occupied with them that they will quiteforget us.' So the youth threw out the carcasses of the oxen, and thenall the wild beasts in the forest, both bears and wolves, and lions,and grim beasts of all kinds, came. But when they caught sight ofthe carcasses of the oxen they began to fight for them till the bloodflowed, and they entirely forgot Dapplegrim and the youth.So the youth rode onwards again, and many and many were the new scenesthey saw, for travelling on Dapplegrim's back was not travelling slowly,as may be imagined, and then Dapplegrim neighed.'Do you hear anything? he said.'Yes. I heard something like a foal neighing quite plainly a long, longway off,' answered the youth.'That's a full grown colt,' said Dapplegrim, 'if you hear it so plainlywhen it is so far away from us.'So they travelled onwards a long time, and saw one new scene afteranother once more. Then Dapplegrim neighed again.'Do you hear anything now?' said he.'Yes. now I heard it quite distinctly, and it neighed like a full grownhorse,' answered the youth.'Yes, and you will hear it again very soon,' said Dapplegrim. 'and thenyou will hear what a voice it has.' So they travelled on through manymore different kinds of country, and then Dapplegrim neighed for thethird time. but before he could ask the youth if he heard anything,there was such a neighing on the other side of the heath that the youththought that hills and rocks would be rent in pieces.'Now he is here!' said Dapplegrim. 'Be quick, and fling over me theox hides that have the spikes in them, throw the twelve tons of tar overthe field, and climb up into that great spruce fir tree. When he comes,fire will spurt out of both his nostrils, and then the tar will catchfire. Now mark what I say if the flame ascends I conquer, and if itsinks I fail. but if you see that I am winning, fling the bridle, whichyou must take off me, over his head, and then he will become quitegentle.'Just as the youth had flung all the hides with the spikes overDapplegrim, and the tar over the field, and had got safely up into thespruce fir, a horse came with flame spouting from his nostrils, and thetar caught fire in a moment. and Dapplegrim and the horse began to fightuntil the stones leapt up to the sky. They bit, and they fought withtheir fore legs and their hind legs, and sometimes the youth looked atthem. And sometimes he looked at the tar, but at last the flames beganto rise, for wheresoever the strange horse bit or wheresoever he kickedhe hit upon the spikes in the hides, and at length he had to yield. Whenthe youth saw that, he was not long in getting down from the tree andflinging the bridle over the horse's head, and then he became so tamethat he might have been led by a thin string.This horse was dappled too, and so like Dapplegrim that no one coulddistinguish the one from the other. The youth seated himself on thedappled horse which he had captured, and rode home again to the King'spalace, and Dapplegrim ran loose by his side. When he got there, theKing was standing outside in the courtyard.'Can you tell me which is the horse I have caught, and which is the oneI had before?' said the youth. 'If you can't, I think your daughter ismine.'The King went and looked at both the dappled horses. he looked high andhe looked low, he looked before and he looked behind, but there was nota hair's difference between the two.'No,' said the King. 'that I cannot tell thee, and as thou hast procuredsuch a splendid bridal horse for my daughter thou shalt have her. butfirst we must have one more trial, just to see if thou art fated tohave her. She shall hide herself twice, and then thou shalt hide thyselftwice. If thou canst find her each time that she hides herself, and ifshe cannot find thee in thy hiding places, then it is fated, and thoushalt have the Princess.''That, too, was not in our bargain,' said the youth. 'But we will makethis trial since it must be so.'So the King's daughter was to hide herself first.Then she changed herself into a duck, and lay swimming in a lake thatwas just outside the palace. But the youth went down into the stable andasked Dapplegrim what she had done with herself.'Oh, all that you have to do is to take your gun, and go down to thewater and aim at the duck which is swimming about there, and she willsoon discover herself,' said Dapplegrim.The youth snatched up his gun and ran to the lake. 'I will just have ashot at that duck,' said he, and began to aim at it.'Oh, no, dear friend, don't shoot! It is I,' said the Princess. So hehad found her once.The second time the Princess changed herself into a loaf, and laidherself on the table among four other loaves. and she was so like theother loaves that no one could see any difference between them.But the youth again went down to the stable to Dapplegrim, and toldhim that the Princess had hidden herself again, and that he had not theleast idea what had become of her.'Oh, just take a very large bread knife, sharpen it, and pretend thatyou are going to cut straight through the third of the four loaves whichare lying on the kitchen table in the King's palace count them fromright to left and you will soon find her,' said Dapplegrim.So the youth went up to the kitchen, and began to sharpen the largestbread knife that he could find. then he caught hold of the third loafon the left hand side, and put the knife to it as if he meant to cut itstraight in two. 'I will have a bit of this bread for myself,' said he.'No, dear friend, don't cut, it is I!' said the Princess again. so hehad found her the second time.And now it was his turn to go and hide himself. but Dapplegrim had givenhim such good instructions that it was not easy to find him. First heturned himself into a horse fly, and hid himself in Dapplegrim's leftnostril. The Princess went poking about and searching everywhere, highand low, and wanted to go into Dapplegrim's stall too, but he began tobite and kick about so that she was afraid to go there, and could notfind the youth. 'Well,' said she, 'as I am unable to find you, you mustshow yourself. 'whereupon the youth immediately appeared standing thereon the stable floor.Dapplegrim told him what he was to do the second time, and he turnedhimself into a lump of earth, and stuck himself between the hoof and theshoe on Dapplegrim's left fore foot. Once more the King's daughter wentand sought everywhere, inside and outside, until at last she came intothe stable, and wanted to go into the stall beside Dapplegrim. So thistime he allowed her to go into it, and she peered about high and low,but she could not look under his hoofs, for he stood much too firmly onhis legs for that, and she could not find the youth.'Well, you will just have to show where you are yourself, for I can'tfind you,' said the Princess, and in an instant the youth was standingby her side on the floor of the stable.'Now you are mine!' said he to the Princess.'Now you can see that it is fated that she should be mine,' he said tothe King.'Yes, fated it is,' said the King. 'So what must be, must.'Then everything was made ready for the wedding with great splendour andpromptitude, and the youth rode to church on Dapplegrim, and the King'sdaughter on the other horse. So everyone must see that they could not belong on their way thither.(20)(20) From J. Moe.