Once upon a time there was a poor peasant by the name of Crab who drovetwo oxen with a load of wood into town where he sold it to a doctor fortwo thalers. He received his money just as the doctor was sitting down toeat. When the peasant saw how well the doctor ate and drank, his hearttook a longing for the same things, and he decided that he would like tohave been a doctor. He stood there for a while, and then asked if he toocould not become a doctor."Certainly," said the doctor, "in no time at all.""What do I have to do?" asked the peasant.First of all, buy yourself an ABC book, one that has a picture of arooster up front. Second, sell your wagon and your two oxen and buyyourself some clothing and other things that doctors use. Third, haveyourself a sign painted with the words 'I am Doctor Know All' and nail itabove the door to your house."The peasant did everything he was told to do. After he had doctored alittle   but not very much   some money was stolen from a great andwealthynobleman. Someone told him about the Doctor Know All who lived in such andsuch a village, and who must know where the money had gone. So thenobleman had his carriage hitched up, rode out to the village, and askedhim if he were Doctor Know All."Yes, that I am.""Then you must come with me and recover my stolen money.""Yes, but my wife Grete must come along too."The nobleman agreed and had them take their places in his carriage.They rode away together.They arrived at the nobleman's court just at mealtime, and the noblemaninvited him to eat."Yes, but include my wife Grete," he replied, and the two of them satdown behind the table.When the first servant brought out a platter of fine food the peasantnudged his wife and said, "Grete, that's the first one," meaning themeal's first course.However, the servant thought that he meant, "That's the first thief,"and because that is indeed what he was, he took fright, and outside hesaid to his comrades, "The doctor knows everything. It's going to go badlyfor us. He said that I'm the first one."The second one did not want to go inside at all, but finally he had to,and when he entered, the peasant nudged his wife and said, "Grete, that'sthe second one."This servant took fright as well, and went outside. It did not go anybetter for the third one. Once again the peasant said, "Grete, that's thethird one."The fourth one brought in a covered platter, and the nobleman told thedoctor that he should demonstrate his art by guessing what it contained.It was crabs. The peasant looked at the platter, and seeing no way out ofhis dilemma, he said to himself, "Oh, poor Crab!"Hearing this, the nobleman called out, "If he knows that then he mustknow who has the money as well!"The servant grew very fearful and motioned to the doctor to go outside.There all four of them confessed to him that they had stolen the money.They offered to give it all to him and a handsome sum in addition, if hewould not turn them in. Otherwise they would all hang. They showed himwhere the money was hidden. The doctor was satisfied with this, and hewent back inside and sat down again at the table."My lord," he said, "Now I will look in my book to see where the moneyis hidden.However, the fifth servant climbed into the stove in order to hear ifthe doctor knew anything else. The doctor leafed back and forth in hisbook looking for the picture of the rooster. Not finding it, he said, "Iknow that you are in there. Come on out."The man in the stove thought that the doctor was talking to him, andterrified, he jumped out, saying, "The man knows everything!"Then Doctor Know All showed the nobleman where the money was, but hedid not tell who had stolen it. Thus he received a large reward from eachside and became a famous man.