Johann Faustus was born in Roda in the province of Weimar, ofGod fearing parents.Although he often lacked common sense and understanding, at an earlyage he proved himself a scholar, mastering not only the Holy Scriptures,but also the sciences of medicine, mathematics, astrology, sorcery,prophesy, and necromancy.These pursuits aroused in him a desire to commune with the Devil,so having made the necessary evil preparations he repaired one night toa crossroads in the Spesser Forest near Wittenberg. Between nine and teno'clock he described certain circles with his staff and thus conjured upthe Devil.Feigning anger at having been summoned against his will, the Devilarrived in the midst of a great storm. After the winds and lightning hadsubsided the Devil asked Dr. Faustus to reveal his will, to which thescholar replied that he was willing to enter into a pact. The Devil, forhis part, would agree:to serve Dr. Faustus for as long as he should live,to provide Dr. Faustus with whatever information he might request, andnever to utter an untruth to Dr. Faustus.The Devil agreed to these particulars, on the condition that Dr.Faustus would promise:at the expiration of twenty four years to surrender his body and soulto the Devil,to confirm the pact with a signature written in his own blood, andto renounce his Christian faith.Having reached an agreement, the pact was drawn up, and Dr. Faustusformalized it with his own blood.Henceforth Dr. Faustus' life was filled with comfort and luxury, butmarked by excess and perversion. Everything was within his grasp: elegantclothing, fine wines, sumptuous food, beautiful women even Helen of Troyand the concubines from the Turkish sultan's harem. He became the mostfamous astrologer in the land, for his horoscopes never failed. No longerlimited by earthly constraints, he traveled from the depths of hell to themost distant stars. He amazed his students and fellow scholars with hisknowledge of heaven and earth.However, for all his fame and fortune, Dr. Faustus could not revoke thetwenty four year limit to the Devil's indenture. Finally recognizing thefolly of his ways, he grew ever more melancholy. He bequeathed his worldlygoods to his young apprentice, a student named Christoph Wagner from theUniversity of Wittenberg .Shortly after midnight on the last day of the twenty fourth year, thestudents who had assembled at the home of the ailing Dr. Faustus heard agreat commotion. First came the sound of a ferocious storm and then theshouts first terrifyingly loud then ever weaker from their mentor.At daybreak they ventured into his room. Bloodstains were everywhere.Bits of brain clung to the walls. Here they discovered an eye, and there afew teeth. Outside they found the corpse, its members still twitching,lying on a manure pile.His horrible death thus taught them the lesson that had escaped theirmaster during his lifetime: to hold fast to the ways of God, and to rejectthe Devil and all his temptations.