There were once three brothers who owned a pear tree and lived on the pears. One day one of the brothers went to pick these pears, and found that they had been gathered."Oh! my brothers! what shall we do, for our pears have been picked?"So the eldest went and remained in the garden to guard the pear tree during the night. He fell asleep, however, and the next morning the second brother came and said: "What have you done, my brother? Have you been sleeping? Do you not see that the pears have been picked? Tonight I will stay."That night the second brother remained. The next morning the youngest went there and saw more of the pears picked, and said: "Were you the one that was going to keep a good watch? Go, I will stay here tonight. we shall see whether they can cheat me to my face."At night the youngest brother began to play and dance under the pear tree. while he was not playing, a fox, believing that the youth had gone to sleep, came out and climbed the tree and picked the rest of the pears. When it was coming down the tree, the youth quickly aimed his gun at it and was about to shoot.The fox said: "Don't shoot me, Don Joseph. for I will have you called Don Joseph Pear, and will make you marry the king's daughter."Don Joseph answered: "And where shall I see you again? What has the king to do with you? With one kick that he would give you, you would never appear before him again."However, Don Joseph Pear from pity let her escape. The fox went away to a forest and caught all sorts of game: squirrels, hares, and quails, and carried them to the king. so that it was a sight."Sir Majesty, Don Joseph Pear sends me. you must accept this game."The king said: "Listen, little fox, I accept this game. but I have never heard this Don Joseph Pear mentioned."The fox left the game there, and ran away to Don Joseph. "Softly, Don Joseph, I have taken the first step. I have been to the king, and carried him the first game. and he accepted it."A week later the fox went to the forest, caught the best animals: squirrels, hares, birds, and took them to the king. "Sir Majesty, Don Joseph Pear sends me to you with this game."The king said to the fox: "My daughter, I don't know who this Don Joseph Pear is. I am afraid you have been sent somewhere else! I will tell you what: Have this Don Joseph Pear come here, so that I can make his acquaintance."The fox wished to leave the game, and said: "I am not mistaken. my master sent me here. and for a token, he said that he wished the princess for his wife."The fox returned to Don Joseph Pear, and said to him: "Softly, things are going well. after I have been to the king again, the matter is settled."Don Joseph said: "I will not believe you until I have my wife."The fox now went to an ogress and said: "Friend, friend, have we not to divide the gold and silver?""Certainly," said the ogress to the fox. "Go and get the measure and we will divide the gold from the silver."The fox went to the king and did not say: "The ogress wants to borrow your measure." but she said: "Don Joseph Pear wants to borrow, for a short time, your measure to separate the gold from the silver.""What!" said the king. "Has this Don Joseph Pear such great riches? Is he then richer than I?"And he gave the fox the measure. When he was alone with his daughter he said to her, in the course of his conversation: "It must be that this Don Joseph Pear is very rich, for he divides the gold and silver."The fox carried the measure to the ogress, who began to measure and heap up gold and silver. When she had finished, the fox went to Don Joseph Pear and dressed him in new clothes, a watch with diamonds, rings, a ring for his betrothed, and everything that was needed for the marriage."Behold, Don Joseph," said the fox, "I am going before you now. you go to the king and get your bride and then go to the church."Don Joseph went to the king. got his bride, and they went to the church. After they were married, the princess got into the carriage and the bridegroom mounted his horse.The fox made a sign to Don Joseph and said: "I will go before you. you follow me and let the carriages and horses come after."They started on their way, and came to a sheep farm which belonged to the ogress. The boy who was tending the sheep, when he saw the fox approach, threw a stone at her, and she began to weep."Ah!" she said to the boy. "Now I will have you killed. Do you see those horsemen? Now I will have you killed!"The youth, terrified, said: "If you will not do anything to me I will not throw any more stones at you."The fox replied: "If you don't want to be killed, when the king passes and asks you whose is this sheep farm, you must tell him: 'Don Joseph Pear's,' for Don Joseph Pear is his son in law, and he will reward you."The cavalcade passed by, and the king asked the boy: "Whose is this sheep farm?"The boy replied at once: "Don Joseph Pear's."The king gave him some money.The fox kept about ten paces before Don Joseph, and the latter did nothing but say in a low tone: "Where are you taking me, fox? What lands do I possess that you can make me believed to be rich? Where are we going?"The fox replied: "Softly, Don Joseph, and leave it to me."They went on and on, and the fox saw another farm of cattle, with the herdsman. The same thing happened there as with the shepherd: the stone thrown and the fox's threat.The king passed. "Herdsman, whose is this farm of cattle?""Don Joseph Pear's."And the king, astonished at his son in law's wealth, gave the herdsman a piece of gold. Don Joseph was pleased on the one hand, but on the other was perplexed and did not know how it was to turn out.When the fox turned around, Joseph said: "Where are you taking me, fox? You are ruining me."The fox kept on as if she had nothing to do with the matter. Then she came to another farm of horses and mares. The boy who was tending them threw a stone at the fox. She frightened him, and he told the king, when the king asked him, that the farm was Don Joseph Pear's.They kept on and came to a well, and near it the ogress was sitting. The fox began to run and pretended to be in great terror. "Friend, friend, see, they are coming! These horsemen will kill us! Let us hide in the well, shall we not?""Yes, friend," said the ogress in alarm."Shall I throw you down first?" said the fox."Certainly, friend."Then the fox threw the ogress down the well, and then entered the ogress' palace. Don Joseph Pear followed the fox, with his wife, his father in law, and all the riders. The fox showed them through all the apartments, displaying the riches, Don Joseph Pear contented at having found his fortune, and the king still more contented because his daughter was so richly settled. There was a festival for a few days, and then the king, well satisfied, returned to his own country and his daughter remained with her husband.One day the fox was looking out of the window, and Don Joseph Pear and his wife were going up to the terrace. Don Joseph Pear took up a little dust from the terrace and threw it at the fox's head. The fox raised her eyes."What is the meaning of this, after the good I have done you, miserable fellow?" said she to Don Joseph."Take care or I will speak!"The wife said to her husband: "What is the matter with the fox, to speak thus?""Nothing," answered her husband. "I threw a little dust at her and she got angry."Don Joseph took up a little more dust and threw it at the fox's head.The fox, in a rage, cried: "Joe, you see I will speak! And I declare that you were the owner of a pear tree!"Don Joseph was frightened, for the fox told his wife everything. so he took an earthen jar and threw it at the fox's head, and so got rid of her.Thus   the ungrateful fellow that he was   he killed the one who had done him so much kindness. but nevertheless he enjoyed all his wealth with his wife.