Once upon a time there was a farmer who had a daughter who used to takehis dinner to him in the fields. One day he said to her, "So that you mayfind me I will sprinkle bran along the way. You follow the bran, and youwill come to me."By chance the old ogre passed that way, and seeing the bran, said,"This means something." So he took the bran and scattered it so that itled to his own house.When the daughter set out to take her father his dinner, she followedthe bran until she came to the ogre's house. When the ogre saw the younggirl, he said, "You must be my wife."Then she began to weep. When the father saw that his daughter did notappear, he went home in the evening, and began to search for her, and notfinding her, he asked God to give him a son or a daughter.A year after, he had a son whom they called Don Firriulieddu. When thechild was three days old it spoke, and said, "Have you made me a cloak?Now give me a little dog and the cloak, for I must look for my sister." Sohe set out and went to seek his sister.After a while he came to a plain where he saw a number of men, andasked, "Whose cattle are these?"The herdsman replied, "They belong to the ogre, who fears neither Godnor the saints, who fears Don Firriulieddu, who is three days old, and ison the way, and gives his dog bread and says, 'Eat, my dog, and do notbark, for we have fine things to do.'"Afterwards he saw a flock of sheep, and asked, "Whose are these sheep?"and received the same answer as from the herdsman.Then he arrived at the ogre's house and knocked, and his sister openedthe door and saw the child. "Who are you looking for?" she said."I am looking for you, for I am your brother, and you must return tomamma."When the ogre heard that Don Firriulieddu was there, he went and hidhimself upstairs. Don Firriulieddu asked his sister, "Where is theogre?""Upstairs."Don Firriulieddu said to his dog, "Go upstairs and bark, and I willfollow you."The dog went up and barked, and Firriulieddu followed him, and killedthe ogre. Then he took his sister and a quantity of money, and they wenthome to their mother, and are all contented.