Many long years ago a Count Bruno lived in the castle at Querfurt. Hewas a great converter of the heathens, and made many trips to them. Now hehad a wife who once scolded a beggar woman for having so many childrenwhile not knowing how to feed them. The beggar woman cursed her, and thenext time she gave birth, she had nine boys at the same time.Count Bruno had just set forth on a trip to the heathens, but when hecame to a meadow just outside the town gate, his donkey stood still andrefused to proceed. Try as he might, he could not get the donkey to move.Then he perceived that this was a sign from God that he should notundertake the trip, and he turned around.In the meantime, the countess, fearing that her husband would think illof her when he learned that she had given birth to nine children at onetime, ordered the midwife to put eight of them into a kettle and to drownthem. The latter was carrying the kettle toward the spring near the castle  which to this day is called Bruno's Spring   when she was met by CountBruno, who was just returning to the castle. Hearing one of the baby boyscrying , he asked her what she had in the kettle. She could not keep it asecret, and told him everything that had happened. He commanded her tokeep secret what he was going to do, and told her to tell his wife thatshe had drowned the children.He took the children to different people who lived in the same street  the street is still called Bruno Street   and had them raised there.One day after they had grown, he had the eight boys dress up exactlylike the ninth one. He then asked the countess what a mother would deservewho drowned her own children, saying that such a case had come before him,and he did not know the right punishment. She said that such a womanshould be forced to stand in red hot shoes. Scarcely had she said thiswhen her nine children   which the count had kept hidden until now  stepped before her. He asked her to identify her own child from amongthem. She could not do this, and he subjected her to the judgment that sheherself had spoken.To commemorate the fact that a donkey had prevented him from continuingon his journey, he had a chapel built in meadow where this happened, andthe meadow is still called Donkey Meadow. Every year during the Easterweek a fair was held and a great dispensation was granted there.The fair still takes place every year, and in the castle they stillhave the kettle and the iron shoes in which the countess suffered herpunishment.