Once upon a time there lived in a city of Hindustan a seller of scents andessences, who had a very beautiful daughter named Dorani. This maiden hada friend who was a fairy, and the two were high in favor with Indra, theking of fairyland, because they were able to sing so sweetly and dance sodeftly that no one in the kingdom could equal them for grace and beauty.Dorani had the most lovely hair in the world, for it was like spun gold,and the smell of it was like the smell of fresh roses. But her locks wereso long and thick that the weight of it was often unbearable, and one dayshe cut off a shining tress, and wrapping it in a large leaf, threw it inthe river which ran just below her window.Now it happened that the king's son was out hunting, and had gone down tothe river to drink, when there floated towards him a folded leaf, fromwhich came a perfume of roses. The prince, with idle curiosity, took astep into the water and caught the leaf as it was sailing by. He openedit, and within he found a lock of hair like spun gold, and from which camea faint, exquisite odor.When the prince reached home that day he looked so sad and was so quietthat his father wondered if any ill had befallen him, and asked what wasthe matter. Then the youth took from his breast the tress of hair which hehad found in the river, and holding it up to the light, replied, "See, myfather, was ever hair like this? Unless I may win and marry the maidenthat owns that lock I must die!"So the king immediately sent heralds throughout all his dominions tosearch for the damsel with hair like spun gold. and at last he learnedthat she was the daughter of the scent seller.The object of the herald's mission was quickly noised abroad, and Doraniheard of it with the rest. and, one day, she said to her father, "If thehair is mine, and the king requires me to marry his son, I must do so.but, remember, you must tell him that if, after the wedding, I stay allday at the palace, every night will be spent in my old home."The old man listened to her with amazement, but answered nothing, as heknew she was wiser than he. Of course the hair was Dorani's, and heraldssoon returned and informed the king, their master, who summoned thescent seller, and told him that he wished for his daughter to be given inmarriage to the prince.The father bowed his head three times to the ground, and replied, "Yourhighness is our lord, and all that you bid us we will do. The maiden asksthis only   that if, after the wedding, she stays all day at the palace,she may go back each night to her father's house."The king thought this a very strange request. but said to himself it was,after all, his son's affair, and the girl would surely soon get tired ofgoing to and fro. So he made no difficulty, and everything was speedilyarranged and the wedding was celebrated with great rejoicings.At first, the condition attaching to his wedding with the lovely Doranitroubled the prince very little, for he thought that he would at least seehis bride all day. But, to his dismay, he found that she would do nothingbut sit the whole time upon a stool with her head bowed forward upon herknees, and he could never persuade her to say a single word.Each evening she was carried in a palanquin to her father's house, andeach morning she vas brought back soon after daybreak. and yet never asound passed her lips, nor did she show by any sign that she saw, orheard, or heeded her husband. One evening the prince, very unhappy andtroubled, was wandering in an old and beautiful garden near the palace.The gardener was a very aged man, who had served the prince's greatgrandfather. and when he saw the prince he came and bowed himself to him,and said, "Child! child! why do you look so sad? Is aught the matter?"Then the prince replied, "I am sad, old friend, because I have married awife as lovely as the stars, but she will not speak to me, and I know notwhat to do. Night after night she leaves me for her father's house, andday after day she sits in mine as though turned to stone, and utters noword, whatever I may do or say."The old man stood thinking for a moment, and then he hobbled off to hisown cottage. A little later he came back to the prince with five or sixsmall packets, which he placed in his hands and said, "Tomorrow, when yourbride leaves the palace, sprinkle the powder from one of these packetsupon your body, and while seeing clearly, you will become yourselfinvisible. More I cannot do for you, but may all go well!"And the prince thanked him, and put the packets carefully away in histurban.The next night, when Dorani left for her father's house in her palanquin,the prince took out a packet of the magic powder and sprinkled it overhimself, and then hurried after her. He soon found that, as the old manhad promised, he was invisible to everyone, although he felt as usual, andcould see all that passed. He speedily overtook the palanquin and walkedbeside it to the scent seller's dwelling. There it was set down, and, whenhis bride, closely veiled, left it and entered the house, he, too, enteredunperceived.At the first door Dorani removed one veil. then she entered anotherdoorway at the end of a passage where she removed another veil. next shemounted the stairs, and at the door of the women's quarters removed athird veil. After this she proceeded to her own room where were set twolarge basins, one of attar of roses and one of water. in these she washedherself, and afterwards called for food. A servant brought her a bowl ofcurds, which she ate hastily, and then arrayed herself in a robe ofsilver, and wound about her strings of pearls, while a wreath of rosescrowned her hair.When fully dressed, she seated herself upon a four legged stool over whichwas a canopy with silken curtains, these she drew around her, and thencalled out, "Fly, stool, to the palace of rajah Indra."Instantly the stool rose in the air, and the invisible prince, who hadwatched all these proceedings with great wonder, seized it by one leg asit flew away, and found himself being borne through the air at a rapidrate. In a short while they arrived at the house of the fairy who, as Itold you before, was the favorite friend of Dorani.The fairy stood waiting on the threshold, as beautifully dressed as Doraniherself was, and when the stool stopped at her door she cried inastonishment, "Why, the stool is flying all crooked today! What is thereason of that, I wonder? I suspect that you have been talking to yourhusband, and so it will not fly straight."But Dorani declared that she had not spoken one word to him, and shecouldn't think why the stool flew as if weighed down at one side. Thefairy still looked doubtful, but made no answer, and took her seat besideDorani, the prince again holding tightly one leg. Then the stool flew onthrough the air until it came to the palace of Indra the rajah.All through the night the women sang and danced before the rajah Indra,whilst a magic lute played of itself the most bewitching music. till theprince, who sat watching it all, was quite entranced.Just before dawn the rajah gave the signal to cease. and again the twowomen seated themselves on the stool, and, with the prince clinging to theleg, it flew back to earth, and bore Dorani and her husband safely to thescent seller's shop. Here the prince hurried away by himself past Dorani'spalanquin with its sleepy bearers, straight on to the palace. and, as hepassed the threshold of his own rooms he became visible again. Then he laydown upon a couch and waited for Dorani's arrival.As soon as she arrived she took a seat and As soon as she arrived she tooka seat and remained as silent as usual, with her head bowed on her knees.For a while not a sound was heard, but presently the prince said, "Idreamed a curious dream last night, and as it was all about you I am goingto tell it you, although you heed nothing."The girl, indeed, took no notice of his words, but in spite of that heproceeded to relate every single thing that had happened the eveningbefore, leaving out no detail of all that he had seen or heard. And whenhe praised her singing   and his voice shook a little   Dorani justlooked at him. but she said naught, though, in her own mind, she wasfilled with wonder."What a dream!" she thought. "Could it have been a dream? How could hehave learnt in a dream all she had done or said?" Still she kept silent.only she looked that once at the prince, and then remained all day asbefore, with her head bowed upon her knees.When night came the prince again made himself invisible and followed her.The same things happened again as had happened before, but Dorani sangbetter than ever. In the morning the prince a second time told Dorani allthat she had done, pretending that he had dreamt of it.Directly he had finished Dorani gazed at him, and said, "Is it true thatyou dreamt this, or were you really there?""I was there," answered the prince."But why do you follow me?" asked the girl."Because," replied the prince, "I love you, and to be with you ishappiness."This time Dorani's eyelids quivered. but she said no more, and was silentthe rest of the day. However, in the evening, just as she was steppinginto her palanquin, she said to the prince, "If you love me, prove it bynot following me tonight."And so the prince did as she wished, and stayed at home.That evening the magic stool flew so unsteadily that they could hardlykeep their seats, and at last the fairy exclaimed, "There is only onereason that it should jerk like this! You have been talking to yourhusband!"And Dorani replied, "Yes, I have spoken. oh, yes, I have spoken!" But nomore would she say.That night Dorani sang so marvelously that at the end the rajah Indra roseup and vowed that she might ask what she would and he would give it toher.At first she was silent. but, when he pressed her, she answered, "Give methe magic lute."The rajah, when he heard this, was displeased with himself for having madeso rash a promise, because this lute he valued above all his possessions.But as he had promised, so he must perform, and with an ill grace hehanded it to her."You must never come here again," said he, "for, once having asked somuch, how will you in future be content with smaller gifts?"Dorani bowed her head silently as she took the lute, and passed with thefairy out of the great gate, where the stool awaited them. More unsteadilythan before, it flew back to earth.When Dorani got to the palace that morning she asked the prince whether hehad dreamt again.He laughed with happiness, for this time she had spoken to him of her ownfree will. and he replied, "No. but I begin to dream now   not of whathas happened in the past, but of what may happen in thefuture."That day Dorani sat very quietly, but she answered the prince when hespoke to her. and when evening fell, and with it the time for herdeparture, she still sat on.Then the prince came close to her and said softly, "Are you not going toyour house, Dorani?"At that she rose and threw herself weeping into his arms, whisperinggently, "Never again, my lord, never again would I leave thee!"So the prince won his beautiful bride. and though they neither of themdealt any further with fairies and their magic, they learnt more daily ofthe magic of Love, which one may still learn, although fairy magic hasfled away.