WittenbergIt is not true, as some claimed as early as the middle of the sixteenthcentury, that Dr. Faust grew up in Wittenberg and earned a doctorate oftheology there, that he lived near the outer gate and had a house andgarden in a street named Schneegasse (which never existed), and that hewas strangled by the devil in the village of Kimlich, a half mile fromWittenberg, in the presence of several scholars and students. However, hedid spend time in Wittenberg and was tolerated there for a while, until hebecame so crude that they tried to imprison him, and then fled to anotherplace.While in Wittenberg he approached Philipp Melanchton, who read the book tohim, scolding him and warning him that if he did not immediately desistfrom his evil ways he would come to an evil end, which did indeed happen.He did not repent.Now one day at ten o'clock in the morning Master Philipp was leavinghis study on his way downstairs to eat when Faust, who was with him atthat time, and whom he had vigorously scolded, said to him: "MasterPhilipp, you always approach me with rough words. Someday, when you areabout to sit down to a meal, I am going to cause all the pots in thekitchen to fly up the chimney, so that you and your guests will havenothing to eat."Thereupon Philipp answered him: "Desist from such talk! I    on yourart!" And he did desist.Another old God fearing man also tried to convert him. To show histhanks, Faust sent a devil to the man's bedroom to frighten him as he wasgoing to bed. The devil walked about in the room, grunting like a sow. Theman, however, was not afraid. Armed with his faith, he ridiculed thedevil: "What a fine voice you have! You are singing like an angel who wasnot allowed to remain in heaven because he wanted to be God's equal andwas thus thrust out for his pride and now wanders through people's housesin the form of a sow!" With that the spirit, not wanting to be in a placewhere he was ridiculed because of his apostasy and his wickedness,returned to Faust and complained to him how he had been receivedthere.Dr. Faust, however, did lead a student astray. Dr. Lercheimer himselfknew one of his friends well into an advanced age. This man had a crookedmouth. Whenever he wanted a hare, he would go out into the woods, make hishocus pocus, and a hare would run right into his hands.