Timothy Jarvis was a decent, honest, quiet, hard working man, as every body knows that knows Balledehob.Now Balledehob is a small place, about forty miles west of Cork. It is situated on the summit of a hill, and yet it is in a deep valley. for on all sides there are lofty mountains that rise one above another in barren grandeur, and seem to look down with scorn upon the little busy village, which they surround with their idle and unproductive magnificence. Man and beast have alike deserted them to the dominion of the eagle, who soars majestically over them. On the highest of those mountains there is a small, and as is commonly believed, unfathomable lake, the only inhabitant of which is a huge serpent, who has been sometimes seen to stretch its enormous head above the waters, and frequently is heard to utter a noise which shakes the very rocks to their foundation.But, as I was saying, everybody knew Tim Jarvis to be a decent, honest, quiet, hard working man, who was thriving enough to be able to give his daughter Nelly a fortune of ten pounds. and Tim himself would have been snug enough besides, but that he loved the drop sometimes. However, he was seldom backward on rent day.His ground was never distrained but twice, and both times through a small bit of a mistake. and his landlord had never but once to say to him, "Tim Jarvis, you're all behind, Tim, like the cow's tail."Now it so happened that, being heavy in himself, through the drink, Tim took to sleeping, and the sleep set Tim dreaming, and he dreamed all night, and night after night, about crocks full of gold and other precious stones. so much so, that Norah Jarvis his wife could get no good of him by day, and have little comfort with him by night. The grey dawn of the morning would see Tim digging away in a bog hole, maybe, or rooting under some old stone walls like a pig. At last he dreamt that he found a mighty great crock of gold and silver, and where, do you think? Every step of the way upon London Bridge, itself! Twice Tim dreamt it, and three times Tim dreamt the same thing. and at last he made up his mind to transport himself, and go over to London, in Pat Mahoney's coaster. and so he did!Well, he got there, and found the bridge without much difficulty. Every day he walked up and down looking for the crock of gold, but never the find did he find it. One day, however, as he was looking over the bridge into the water, a man, or something like a man, with great black whiskers, like a Hessian, and a black cloak that reached down to the ground, taps him on the shoulder, and says he, "Tim Jarvis, do you see me?""Surely I do, sir," said Tim. wondering that anybody should know him in the strange place."Tim," says he, "what is it brings you here in foreign parts, so far away from your own cabin by the mine of grey copper at Balledehob?""Please your honor," says Tim, "I'm come to seek my fortune.""You're a fool for your pains, Tim, if that's all," remarked the stranger in the black cloak. "this is a big place to seek one's fortune in, to be sure, but it's not so easy to find it."Now, Tim, after debating a long time with himself, and considering, in the first place, that it might be the stranger who was to find the crock of gold for him. and in the next, that the stranger might direct him where to find it, came to the resolution of telling him all."There's many a one like me comes here seeking their fortunes," said Tim."True,'' said the stranger."But," continued Tim, looking up, "the body and bones of the cause for myself leaving the woman, and Nelly, and the boys, and traveling so far, is to look for a crock of gold that I'm told is lying somewhere hereabouts.""And who told you that, Tim?""Why, then, sir, that's what I can't tell myself rightly. only I dreamt it.""Ho, ho! is that all, Tim?" said the stranger, laughing. "I had a dream myself. and I dreamed that I found a crock of gold, in the fort field, on Jerry Driscoll's ground at Balledehob. and by the same token, the pit where it lay was close to a large furze bush, all full of yellow blossom."Tim knew Jerry Driscoll's ground well. and, moreover, he knew the fort field as well as he knew his own potato garden. he was certain, too, of the very furze bush at the north end of it. So, swearing a bitter big oath, says he, "By all the crosses in a yard of check, I always thought there was money in that same field!"The moment he rapped out the oath the stranger disappeared, and Tim Jarvis, wondering at all that had happened to him, made the best of his way back to Ireland. Norah, as may well be supposed, had no very warm welcome for her runaway husband   the dreaming blackguard, as she called him   and so soon as she set eyes upon him, all the blood of her body in one minute was into her knuckles to be at him. but Tim, after his long journey, looked so cheerful and so happy like, that she could not find it in her heart to give him the first blow!He managed to pacify his wife by two or three broad hints about a new cloak and a pair of shoes, that, to speak honestly, were much wanting to her to go to chapel in. and decent clothes for Nelly to go to the patron with her sweetheart, and brogues for the boys, and some corduroy for himself."It wasn't for nothing," says Tim, "I went to foreign parts all the ways. and you'll see what'll come out of it   mind my words."A few days afterwards Tim sold his cabin and his garden, and bought the fort field of Jerry Driscoll, that had nothing in it, but was full of thistles, and old stones, and blackberry bushes. and all the neighbors   as well they might   thought he was cracked!The first night that Tim could summon courage to begin his work, he walked off to the field with his spade upon his shoulder. and away he dug all night by the side of the furze bush, till he came to a big stone. He struck his spade against it, and he heard a hollow sound. but as the morning had begun to dawn, and the neighbors would be going out to their work, Tim, not wishing to have the thing talked about, went home to the little hovel, where Norah and the children were huddled together under a heap of straw. for he had sold everything he had in the world to purchase Driscoll's field, that was said to be "the back bone of the world, picked by the devil."It is impossible to describe the epithets and reproaches bestowed by the poor woman on her unlucky husband for bringing her into such a way. Epithets and reproaches which Tim had but one mode of answering, as thus: "Norah, did you see e'er a cow you'd like?"   or, "Norah, dear, hasn't Poll Deasy a featherbed to sell?"   or, "Norah, honey, wouldn't you like your silver buckles as big as Mrs. Doyle's?"As soon as night came Tim stood beside the furze bush spade in hand. The moment he jumped down into the pit he heard a strange rumbling noise under him, and so, putting his ear against the great stone, he listened, and overheard a discourse that made the hair on his head stand up like bulrushes, and every limb tremble."How shall we bother Tim?" said one voice."Take him to the mountain, to be sure, and make him a toothful for the old serpent. 'tis long since he has had a good meal," said another voice.Tim shook like a potato blossom in a storm."No," said a third voice. "plunge him in the bog, neck and heels."Tim was a dead man, barring the breath."Stop!" said a fourth. but Tim heard no more, for Tim was dead entirely. In about an hour, however, the life came back into him, and he crept home to Norah.When the next night arrived the hopes of the crock of gold got the better of his fears, and takings care to arm himself with a bottle of potheen, away he went to the field. Jumping into the pit, he took a little sup from the bottle to keep his heart up   he then took a big one   and then, with desperate wrench, he wrenched up the stone. All at once, up rushed a blast of wind, wild and fierce, and down fell Tim   down, down, and down he went   until he thumped upon what seemed to be, for all the world, like a floor of sharp pins, which made him bellow out in earnest. Then he heard a whisk and a hurra, and instantly voices beyond number cried out:Welcome, Tim Jarvis, dear!Welcome, down here!"Though Tim's teeth chattered like magpies with the fright, he continued to make answer: "I'm he he har ti ly ob ob liged to to you all, gen gentlemen, fo for your civility to to a poor stranger like myself."But though he had heard all the voices about him, he could see nothing, the place was so dark and so lonesome in itself for want of the light. Then something pulled Tim by the hair of his head, and dragged him, he did not know how far, but he knew he was going faster than the wind, for he heard it behind him, trying to keep up with him, and it could not.On, on, on, he went, till all at once, and suddenly, he was stopped, and somebody came up to him, and said, "Well, Tim Jarvis, and how do you like your ride?""Mighty well! I thank your honor," said Tim. "and 'twas a good beast I rode, surely!"There was a great laugh at Tim's answer. and then there was a whispering, and a great cugger mugger, and coshering. and at last a pretty little bit of a voice said, "Shut your eyes, and you'll see, Tim.""By my word, then," said Tim, "that is the queer way of seeing. but I'm not the man to gainsay you, so I'll do as you bid me, any how."Presently he felt a small warm hand rubbed over his eyes with an ointment, and in the next minute he saw himself in the middle of thousands of little men and women, not half so high as his brogue, that were pelting one another with golden guineas and lily white thirteens, as if they were so much dirt.The finest dressed and the biggest of them all went up to Tim, and says he, "Tim Jarvis, because you are a decent, honest, quiet, civil, well spoken man," says he, "and know how to behave yourself in strange company, we've altered our minds about you, and will find a neighbor of yours that will do just as well to give to the old serpent.""Oh, then, long life to you, sir!" said Tim, "and there's no doubt of that.""But what will you say, Tim," inquired the little fellow, "if we fill your pockets with these yellow boys? What will you say, Tim, and what will you do with them?""Your honor's honor, and your honor's glory," answered Tim, "I'll not be able to say my prayers for one month with thanking you   and indeed I've enough to do with them. I'd make a grand lady, you see, at once of Norah   she has been a good wife to me. We'll have a nice bit of pork for dinner. and, maybe, I'd have a glass, or maybe two glasses. or sometimes, if 'twas with a friend, or acquaintance, or gossip, you know, three glasses every day. and I'd build a new cabin. and I'd have a fresh egg every morning, myself, for my breakfast. and I'd snap my fingers at the 'squire, and beat his hounds, if they'd come coursing through my fields. and I'd have a new plow. and Norah, your honor, should have a new cloak, and the boys should have shoes and stockings as well as Biddy Leary's brats   that's my sister what was   and Nelly should marry Bill Long of Affadown. and, your honor, I'd have some corduroy for myself to make breeches, and a cow, and a beautiful coat with shining buttons, and a horse to ride, or maybe two. I'd have every thing," said Tim, "in life, good or bad, that is to be got for love or money   hurra whoop!   and that's what I'd do.""Take care, Tim," said the little fellow, "your money would not go faster than it came, with your hurra whoop."But Tim heeded not this speech: heaps of gold were around him, and he filled and filled away as hard as he could, his coat and his waistcoat and his breeches pockets. and he thought himself very clever, moreover, because he stuffed some of the guineas into his brogues. When the little people perceived this, they cried out, "Go home, Tim Jarvis, go home, and think yourself a lucky man.""I hope, gentlemen," said he, "we won't part for good and all. but maybe ye'll ask me to see you again, and to give you a fair and square account of what I've done with your money."To this there was no answer, only another shout, "Go home, Tim Jarvis. go home. fair play is a jewel. but shut your eyes, or ye'll never see the light of day again."Tim shut his eyes, knowing now that was the way to see clearly. and away he was whisked as before   away, away he went 'till he again stopped all of a sudden.He rubbed his eyes with his two thumbs   and where was he?   Where, but in the very pit in the field that was Jer Driscoll's, and his wife Norah above with a big stick ready to beat "her dreaming blackguard." Tim roared out to the woman to leave the life in him, and put his hands in his pockets to show her the gold. but he pulled out nothing only a handful of small stones mixed with yellow furze blossoms. The bush was under him, and the great flag stone that he had wrenched up, as he thought, was lying, as if it was never stirred, by his side: the whiskey bottle was drained to the last drop. and the pit was just as his spade had made it.Tim Jarvis, vexed, disappointed, and almost heart broken, followed his wife home. and, strange to say, from that night he left off drinking, and dreaming, and delving in bog holes, and rooting in old caves. He took again to his hard working habits, and was soon able to buy back his little cabin and former potato garden, and to get all the enjoyment he anticipated from the fairy gold.Give Tim one or, at most, two glasses of whiskey punch (and neither friend, acquaintance, or gossip can make him take more), and he. will relate the story to you much better than you have it here. Indeed it is worth going to Balledehob to hear him tell it.He always pledges himself to the truth of every word with his forefingers crossed. and when he comes to speak of the loss of his guineas, he never fails to console himself by adding: "If they stayed with me I wouldn't have luck with them, sir. and father O'Shea told me 'twas as well for me they were changed, for if they hadn't, they'd have burned holes in my pocket, and got out that way."I shall never forget his solemn countenance, and the deep tones of his warning voice, when he concluded his tale, by telling me, that the next day after his ride with the fairies, Mick Dowling was missing, and he believed him to be given to the serpent in his place, as he had never been heard of since. "The blessing of the saints be between all good men and harm," was the concluding sentence of Tim Jarvis's narrative, as he flung the remaining drops from his glass upon the green sward.