Many of the superstitions of our ancestors are preserved in quaint,irregular rhymes, the recitation of which was the amusement of the peoplein the long nights of winter. These were sung, or rather said, in amonotone, by the professional drolls, who doubtless added such things asthey fancied would increase the interest of the story to the listeners.Especially were they fond of introducing known characters on the scene,and of mixing up events which had occurred within the memory of the oldpeople, with the more ancient legend.The following story, or rather parts of it, formed the subject of oneof the Cornish Christmas plays. When I was a boy, I well remember beingmuch delighted with the coarse acting of a set of Christmas players, whoexhibited in the "great hall" of a farmhouse at which I was visiting, andwho gave us the principal incidents of Duffy and the Devil Terrytop. oneof the company doing the part of Chorus, and filling up by rudedescriptions   often in rhyme   the parts which the players could notrepresent.It was cider making time. Squire Lovel of Trove, or more correctly,Trewoof, rode up to Burian Churchtown to procure help. Boys and maidenswere in request, some to gather the apples from the trees, others to carrythem to the cider mill. Passing along the village as hastily as thedignity of a squire would allow him, his attention was drawn to a greatnoise   scolding in a shrill treble voice, and crying   proceeding fromJaney Chygwin's door. The squire rode up to the cottage, and he saw theold woman beating her stepdaughter Duffy about the head with the skirt ofher swing tail gown, in which she had been carrying out the ashes. Shemade such a dust, that the squire was nearly choked and almost blindedwith the wood ashes."What cheer, Janey?" cries the squire. "What's the to do with you andDuffy?""Oh, the lazy hussy!" shouts Janey, "is all her time courseying andcourranting (running and chasing) with the boys! She will never stay in toboil the porridge, knit the stockings, or spin the yarn.""Don't believe her, your honor," exclaims Duffy. "My knitting andspinning is the best in the parish."The war of tongues continued in this strain for some time, the oldsquire looking calmly on, and resolving in his mind to take Duffy homewith him to Trove, her appearance evidently pleasing him greatly. SquireLovel left the old and young woman to do the best they could, and wentround the village to complete his hiring.When he returned, peace had been declared between them, but when Lovelexpressed his desire to take Duffy home to his house to help thehousekeeper to do the spinning, "A pretty spinner she is!" shouted oldJaney at the top of her voice."Try me, your honor," said Duffy, curtsying very low. "My yarns are thebest in the parish.""We'll soon try that," said the squire. "Janey will be glad to getquits of thee, I see, and thou'lt be nothing loath to leave her. So jumpup behind me, Duffy."No sooner said than done. The maid Duffy, without ceremony, mountedbehind the squire on the horse, and they jogged silently down to Trove.Squire Lovel's old housekeeper was almost blind   one eye had been putout by an angry old wizard, and through sympathy she was rapidly losingthe power of seeing with the other. This old dame was consequently veryglad of someone to help her in spinning and knitting.The introduction over, the housekeeper takes Duffy up into the garretwhere the wool was kept, and where the spinning was done in the summer,and requests her to commence her work.The truth must be told. Duffy was an idle slut. She could neither knitnor spin. Well, here she was left along, and, of course, expected toproduce a good specimen of her work.The garret was piled from the floor to the key beams with fleeces ofwool. Duffy looked despairingly at them, and then sat herself down on the"turn"   the spinning wheel   and cried out, "Curse the spinning andknitting! The devil may spin and knit for the squire for what I care."Scarcely had Duffy spoken these words than she heard a rustling noisebehind some wool packs, and forth walked a queer looking little man, witha remarkable pair of eyes, which seemed to send out flashes of light.There was something uncommonly knowing in the twist of his mouth, and hiscurved nose had an air of curious intelligence. He was dressed in black,and moved towards Duffy with a jaunty air, knocking something against thefloor at every step he took."Duffy dear," said this little gentleman, "I'll do all the spinning andknitting for thee.""Thank 'e," says Duffy, quite astonished."Duffy dear, a lady shall you be.""Thank 'e, your honor," smiled Duffy."But, Duffy dear, remember," coaxingly said the queer little man,"remember, that for all this, at the end of three years, you must go withme, unless you can find out my name."Duffy was not the least bit frightened, nor did she hesitate long, butpresently struck a bargain with her kind but unknown friend, who told hershe had only to wish, and her every wish should be fulfilled. And as forthe spinning and knitting, she would find all she required under the blackram's fleece.He then departed. How, Duffy could not tell, but in a moment the queerlittle gentleman was gone.Duffy sung in idleness, and slept until it was time for her to make herappearance. So she wished for some yarns, and looking under the blackfleece she found them.Those were shown by the housekeeper to the squire, and both declaredthey had never seen such beautiful yarns.The next day Duffy was to knit this yarn into stockings. Duffy idled,as only professed idlers can idle. But in due time, as if she had beenexcessively industrious, she produced a pair of stockings for the oldsquire.If the yarn was beautiful, the stocking were beyond all praise. Theywere as fine as silk, and as strong as leather.Squire Lovel soon gave them a trial. and when he came home at nightafter hunting, he declared he would never wear any other than Duffy'sstocking. He had wandered all day through brake and briar, furze andbrambles. There was not a scratch on his legs, and he was as dry as abone. There was no end to his praise of Duffy's stockings.Duffy had a rare time of it now. She could do what she pleased and rovewhere she willed.She was dancing on the mill bed half the day with all the gossipingwomen who brought their grist to be ground. In those "good old times" theladies of the parish would take their corn to mill, and serge the flourthemselves. When a few of them met together, they would either tellstories or dance whilst the corn was grinding. Sometimes the dance wouldbe on the mill bed, sometimes out on the green. On some occasions themiller's fiddle would be in request, at others the "crowd" (a sievecovered with sheepskin) was made to do the duty of a tambourine. So Duffywas always finding excuses to go to mill, and many "a round" would shedance with the best people in the parish.Old Bet, the miller's wife, was a witch, and she found out who didDuffy's work for her. Duffy and old Bet were always the best of friends,and she never told anyone about Duffy's knitting friend, nor did she eversay a word about the stockings being unfinished. There was always a stitchdown.On Sundays the people went to Burian Church from all parts to look atthe squire's stockings. And the old squire would stop at the cross, proudenough to show them. He could huntThrough brambles and furze in all sorts of weather.His old shanks were as sound as if bound up in leather.Duffy was now sought after by all the young men of the country. and atlast the squire, fearing to lose a pretty girl, and one who was so usefulto him, married her himself, and she became, according to the fashion ofthe time and place, Lady Lovel. But she was commonly known by herneighbors as the Duffy Lady.Lady Lovel kept the devil hard at work. Stockings, all sorts of fineunderclothing, bedding, and much ornamental work, the like of which wasnever seen, was produced at command and passed off as her own.Duffy passed a merry time of it, but somehow or other she was neverhappy when she was compelled to play the lady. She passed much more of hertime with the old crone at the mill than in the drawing room at Trove. Thesquire sported and drank, and cared little about Duffy, so long as sheprovided him with knitted garments.The three years were nearly at an end. Duffy had tried every plan tofind out the devil's name, but had failed in all.She began to fear that she should have to go off with her queer friend,and Duffy became melancholy. Old Bet endeavored to rouse her, persuadingher that she could, from her long experience and many dealings with theimps of darkness, at the last moment put her in the way of escaping herdoom. Duffy went day after day to her garret, and there each day was thedevil gibing and jeering till she was almost mad.There was but another day. Bet was seriously consulted now, and   asgood as her word   she promised to use her power. Duffy Lady was to bringdown to the mill that very evening a jack (leather jug) of the strongestbeer she had in the cellar. She was not to go to bed until the squirereturned from hunting, no matter how late, and she was to make no remarkin reply to anything the squire might tell her.The jack of beer was duly carried to the mill, and Duffy returned homevery melancholy to wait up for the squire.No sooner had Lady Lovel left the mill than old Bet came out with the"crowd" over her shoulders, and the blackjack (tar coated leather jug) inher hand. She shut the door, and turned the water off the mill wheel,threw her red cloak about her, and away.She was seen by her neighbors going towards Boleit. A man saw the oldwoman trudging past the Pipers, and through the Dawnse Main into thedowns, but there he lost sight of her, and no one could tell where old Betwas gone to at that time of night.Duffy waited long and anxiously. By and by the dogs came home alone.They were covered with foam, their tongues were hanging out of theirmouths, and all the servants said they must have met the devil's houndswithout heads.Duffy was seriously alarmed. Midnight came but no squire. At last hearrived, but like a crazy, crack brained man, he kept singing:Here's to the devil,With his wooden pick and shovel.He was neither drunk nor frightened, but wild with some strangeexcitement. After a long time Squire Lovel sat down, and began, "My dearDuffy, you haven't smiled this long time. But now I'll tell 'e somethingthat would make ye laugh if ye're dying. If you'd seen what I've seentonight, ha, ha, ha!Here's to the devil,With his wooden pick and shovel."True to her orders, Duffy said not a word, but allowed the squire toramble on as he pleased. At length he told her the following story of hisadventures, with interruptions which have not been retained, and withnumerous coarse expressions which are best forgotten:The squire's story of the meeting of the witches in the Fugoe Hole:Duffy dear, I left home at break of day this morning. I huntedall the moors from Trove to Trevider, and never started a hare all thelivelong day. I determined to hunt all night, but that I'd have a brace tobring home.So, at nightfall I went down Lemorna Bottoms, then up BreneDownses, and as we passed the Dawnse Main up started a hare, as fine ahare as ever was seen. She passed the Pipers, down through the Reens, inthe mouth of the dogs half the time, yet they couldn't catch her at all.As fine a chase as ever was seen, until she took into the Fugoe Hole. Inwent the dogs after her, and I followed, the owls and bats flying round myhead. On we went, through water and mud, a mile or more, I'm quitecertain. I didn't know the place was so long before. At last we came to abroad pool of water, when the dogs lost the scent and ran back past mehowling and jowling, terrified almost to death!A little farther on I turned round a corner, and saw aglimmering fire on the other side the water, and there were St. Levenwitches in scores. Some were riding on ragwort, some on brooms, some werefloating on their three legged stools, and some, who had been milking thelittle good cows in Wales, had come back astride of the largest leeks theycould find. Amongst the rest there was our Bet of the mill, with her"crowd" in her hand, and my own blackjack slung across hershoulders.In a short time the witches gathered round the fire, andblowed it up, after a strange fashion, till it burned up into a brilliantblue flame. Then I saw amongst the rest a queer little man in black, witha long forked tail, which he held high in the air, and twirled around. Betstruck her "crowd" as soon as he appeared, and beat up thetune:Here's to the devil,With his wooden pick and shovel,Digging tin by the bushel,With his tail cock'd up!Then the queer little devil and all danced like the wind, andwent faster and faster, making such a clatter, "as if they had on eachfoot a pewter platter."Every time the man in black came round by old Bet, he took agood pull from my own blackjack, till at last, as if he had been drinkingmy best beer, he seemed to have lost his head, when he jumped up and down,turned round and round, and roaring with laughter, sung:Duffy, my lady, you'll never know   what?  That my name is Terrytop, Terrytop   top!When the squire sung those lines, he stopped suddenly, thinking thatDuffy was going to die. She turned pale, and red, and pale again. However,Duffy said nothing, and the squire proceeded:After the dance, all the witches made a ring around the fire,and again blew it up, until the blue flames reached the top of the Zawn (acavernous gorge). Then the devil danced through and through the fire, andspringing ever and anon amongst the witches, kicked them soundly. At last  I was shaking with laughter at the fun   I shouted, "Go it, Old Nick!"and lo, the lights went out, and I had to fly with all my speed, for everyone of the witches were after me. I scampered home somehow, and here I am.Why don't you laugh, Duffy?Duffy did laugh, and laugh right heartily now, and when tired of theirfun, the squire and the lady went to bed.The three years were up within an hour. Duffy had willed for anabundant supply of knitted things, and filled every chest in the house.She was in the best chamber trying to cram some more stockings into a bigchest, when the queer little man in black appeared before her."Well, Duffy, my dear," said he, "I have been true to my word andserved you truly for three years as we agreed, so now I hope you will gowith me, and make no objection." He bowed very obsequiously, almost to theground, and regarded Duffy Lady with a very offensive leer."I fear," smiled Duffy, "that your country is rather warm, and mightspoil my fair complexion.""It is not so hot as some people say, Duffy," was his reply. "But comealong. I've kept my word, and of course a lady of your standing will keepyour word also. Can you tell me my name?"Duffy curtsied, and smilingly said, "You have behaved like a truegentleman, yet I wouldn't like to go so far."The devil frowned and approached as if he would lay forcible hands uponher."Maybe your name is Lucifer?"He stamped his foot and grinned horridly. "Lucifer! Lucifer! He's noother than a servant to me in my own country." Suddenly calming again, hesaid, quietly, "Lucifer! I would scarcely be seen speaking to him atcourt. But come along. When I spin for ladies I expect honorable treatmentat their hands. You've two guesses more. But they're of little use. Myname is not generally known on earth.""Perhaps," smiled Duffy again, "my lord's name is Beelzebub?"How he grinned, and his sides shook with convulsive joy. "Beelzebub!"says he. "I believe he's some sort of a cousin   a Cornish cousin youknow.""I hope your honor," curtsied Duffy, "will not take offence. Impute mymistake to ignorance."Our demon was rampant with joy. He danced around Duffy with delight,and was, seeing that she hesitated, about to seize her somewhat roughly."Stop! Stop!" shouts Duffy. "Perhaps you will be honest enough to admitthat your name is Terrytop."The gentleman in black looked at Duffy, and she steadily looked him inthe face. "Terrytop! Deny it if you dare," says she."A gentleman never denies his name," replied Terrytop, drawing himselfup with much dignity. "I did not expect to be beaten by a young minx likeyou, Duffy. But the pleasure of your company is merely postponed."With this Terrytop departed in fire and smoke, and all the devil'sknitting suddenly turned to ashes.Squire Lovel was out hunting, away far on the moors. The day was coldand the winds piercing. Suddenly the stockings dropped from his legs andthe homespun from his back, so that he came home with nothing on but hisshirt and his shoes, almost dead with cold. All this was attributed by thesquire to the influence of old Bet, who, he thought, had punished him forpursuing her with his dogs when she had assumed the form of a hare.The story, as told by the drolls, now rambles on. Duffy cannot furnishstockings. The squire is very wroth. There are many quarrels   mutualrecriminations. Duffy's old sweetheart is called in to beat the squire,and eventually peace is procured, by a stratagem of old Bet's, which wouldrather shock the sense of propriety in these our days.