Once upon a time there lived an old man who had only one son, whom heloved dearly. but they were very poor, and often had scarcely enough toeat. Then the old man fell ill, and things grew worse than ever, so hecalled his son and said to him:'My dear boy, I have no longer any food to give you, and you must gointo the world and get it for yourself. It does not matter what work youdo, but remember if you do it well and are faithful to your master, youwill always have your reward.'So Peter put a piece of black bread in his knapsack, and strapping iton his back, took a stout stick in his hand, and set out to seek hisfortune. For a long while he travelled on and on, and nobody seemed towant him. but one day he met an old man, and being a polite youth, hetook off his hat and said: 'Good morning,' in a pleasant voice. 'Goodmorning,' answered the old man. 'and where are you going?''I am wandering through the country trying to get work,' replied Peter.'Then stay with me, for I can give you plenty,' said the old man, andPeter stayed.His work did not seem hard, for he had only two horses and a cow to seeafter, and though he had been hired for a year, the year consisted ofbut three days, so that it was not long before he received his wages. Inpayment the old man gave him a nut, and offered to keep him for anotheryear. but Peter was home sick. and, besides, he would rather have beenpaid ever so small a piece of money than a nut. for, thought he, nutsgrow on every tree, and I can gather as many as I like. However, he didnot say this to the old man, who had been kind to him, but just bade himfarewell.The nearer Peter drew to his father's house the more ashamed he felt athaving brought back such poor wages. What could one nut do for him? Why,it would not buy even a slice of bacon. It was no use taking it home, hemight as well eat it. So he sat down on a stone and cracked it with histeeth, and then took it out of his mouth to break off the shell. Butwho could ever guess what came out of that nut? Why, horses and oxenand sheep stepped out in such numbers that they seemed as if they wouldstretch to the world's end! The sight gave Peter such a shock that hewrung his hands in dismay. What was he to do with all these creatures,where was he to put them? He stood and gazed in terror, and at thismoment Eisenkopf came by.'What is the matter, young man?' asked he.'Oh, my friend, there is plenty the matter,' answered Peter. 'I havegained a nut as my wages, and when I cracked it this crowd of beastscame out, and I don't know what to do with them all!''Listen to me, my son,' said Eisenkopf. 'If you will promise never tomarry I will drive them all back into the nut again.'In his trouble Peter would have promised far harder things than this,so he gladly gave the promise Eisenkopf asked for. and at a whistle fromthe stranger the animals all began crowding into the nut again, nearlytumbling over each other in their haste. When the last foot had gotinside, the two halves of the shell shut close. Then Peter put it in hispocket and went on to the house.No sooner had he reached it than he cracked his nut for the second time,and out came the horses, sheep, and oxen again. Indeed Peter thoughtthat there were even more of them than before. The old man could notbelieve his eyes when he saw the multitudes of horses, oxen and sheepstanding before his door.'How did you come by all these?' he gasped, as soon as he could speak.and the son told him the whole story, and of the promise he had givenEisenkopf.The next day some of the cattle were driven to market and sold, and withthe money the old man was able to buy some of the fields and gardensround his house, and in a few months had grown the richest and mostprosperous man in the whole village. Everything seemed to turn to goldin his hands, till one day, when he and his son were sitting in theorchard watching their herds of cattle grazing in the meadows, hesuddenly said: 'Peter, my boy, it is time that you were thinking ofmarrying.''But, my dear father, I told you I can never marry, because of thepromise I gave to Eisenkopf.''Oh, one promises here and promises there, but no one ever thinks ofkeeping such promises. If Eisenkopf does not like your marrying, he willhave to put up with it all the same! Besides, there stands in the stablea grey horse which is saddled night and day. and if Eisenkopf shouldshow his face, you have only got to jump on the horse's back and rideaway, and nobody on earth can catch you. When all is safe you will comeback again, and we shall live as happily as two fish in the sea.'And so it all happened. The young man found a pretty, brown skinned girlwho was willing to have him for a husband, and the whole village cameto the wedding feast. The music was at its gayest, and the dance at itsmerriest, when Eisenkopf looked in at the window.'Oh, ho, my brother! what is going on here? It has the air of being awedding feast. Yet I fancied was I mistaken? that you had given me apromise that you never would marry.' But Peter had not waited for theend of this speech. Scarcely had he seen Eisenkopf than he darted likethe wind to the stable and flung himself on the horse's back. In anothermoment he was away over the mountain, with Eisenkopf running fast behindhim.On they went through thick forests where the sun never shone, overrivers so wide that it took a whole day to sail across them, up hillswhose sides were all of glass. on they went through seven times sevencountries till Peter reined in his horse before the house of an oldwoman.'Good day, mother,' said he, jumping down and opening the door.'Good day, my son,' answered she, 'and what are you doing here, at theworld's end?''I am flying for my life, mother, flying to the world which is beyondall worlds. for Eisenkopf is at my heels.''Come in and rest then, and have some food, for I have a little dog whowill begin to howl when Eisenkopf is still seven miles off.'So Peter went in and warmed himself and ate and drank, till suddenly thedog began to howl.'Quick, my son, quick, you must go,' cried the old woman. And thelightning itself was not quicker than Peter.'Stop a moment,' cried the old woman again, just as he was mounting hishorse, 'take this napkin and this cake, and put them in your bag whereyou can get hold of them easily.' Peter took them and put them into hisbag, and waving his thanks for her kindness, he was off like the wind.Round and round he rode, through seven times seven countries, throughforests still thicker, and rivers still wider, and mountains still moreslippery than the others he had passed, till at length he reached ahouse where dwelt another old woman.'Good day, mother,' said he.'Good day, my son! What are you seeking here at the world's end?''I am flying for my life, mother, flying to the world that is beyond allworlds, for Eisenkopf is at my heels.''Come in, my son, and have some food. I have a little dog who will beginto howl when Eisenkopf is still seven miles off. so lie on this bed andrest yourself in peace.'Then she went to the kitchen and baked a number of cakes, more thanPeter could have eaten in a whole month. He had not finished a quarterof them, when the dog began to howl.'Now, my son, you must go,' cried the old woman 'but first put thesecakes and this napkin in your bag, where you can easily get at them.' SoPeter thanked her and was off like the wind.On he rode, through seven times seven countries, till he came to thehouse of a third old woman, who welcomed him as the others had done. Butwhen the dog howled, and Peter sprang up to go, she said, as she gavehim the same gifts for his journey: 'You have now three cakes and threenapkins, for I know that my sisters have each given you one. Listen tome, and do what I tell you. Ride seven days and nights straight beforeyou, and on the eighth morning you will see a great fire. Strike itthree times with the three napkins and it will part in two. Then rideinto the opening, and when you are in the middle of the opening, throwthe three cakes behind your back with your left hand.'Peter thanked her for her counsel, and was careful to do exactly all theold woman had told him. On the eighth morning he reached a fire so largethat he could see nothing else on either side, but when he struck itwith the napkins it parted, and stood on each hand like a wall. As herode through the opening he threw the cakes behind him. From each cakethere sprang a huge dog, and he gave them the names of World's weight,Ironstrong, and Quick ear. They bayed with joy at the sight of him,and as Peter turned to pat them, he beheld Eisenkopf at the edge of thefire, but the opening had closed up behind Peter, and he could not getthrough.'Stop, you promise breaker,' shrieked he. 'you have slipped through myhands once, but wait till I catch you again!'Then he lay down by the fire and watched to see what would happen.When Peter knew that he had nothing more to fear from Eisenkopf, he rodeon slowly till he came to a small white house. Here he entered and foundhimself in a room where a gray haired woman was spinning and a beautifulgirl was sitting in the window combing her golden hair. 'What brings youhere, my son?' asked the old woman.'I am seeking for a place, mother,' answered Peter.'Stay with me, then, for I need a servant,' said the old woman.'With pleasure, mother,' replied he.After that Peter's life was a very happy one. He sowed and ploughed allday, except now and then when he took his dogs and went to hunt. Andwhatever game he brought back the maiden with the golden hair knew howto dress it.One day the old woman had gone to the town to buy some flour, and Peterand the maiden were left alone in the house. They fell into talk, andshe asked him where his home was, and how he had managed to come throughthe fire. Peter then told her the whole story, and of his striking theflames with the three napkins as he had been told to do. The maidenlistened attentively and wondered in herself whether what he said wastrue. So after Peter had gone out to the fields, she crept up to hisroom and stole the napkins and then set off as fast as she could to thefire by a path she knew of over the hill.At the third blow she gave the flames divided, and Eisenkopf, who hadbeen watching and hoping for a chance of this kind, ran down the openingand stood before her. At this sight the maiden was almost frightenedto death, but with a great effort she recovered herself and ran home asfast as her legs would carry her, closely pursued by Eisenkopf. Pantingfor breath she rushed into the house and fell fainting on the floor. butEisenkopf entered behind her, and hid himself in the kitchen under thehearth.Not long after, Peter came in and picked up the three napkins which themaiden had dropped on the threshold. He wondered how they got there, forhe knew he had left them in his room. but what was his horror when hesaw the form of the fainting girl lying where she had dropped, as stilland white as if she had been dead. He lifted her up and carried herto her bed, where she soon revived, but she did not tell Peter aboutEisenkopf, who had been almost crushed to death under the hearth stoneby the body of World's weight.The next morning Peter locked up his dogs and went out into the forestalone. Eisenkopf, however, had seen him go, and followed so closely athis heels that Peter had barely time to clamber up a tall tree, whereEisenkopf could not reach him. 'Come down at once, you gallows bird,' hecried. 'Have you forgotten your promise that you never would marry?''Oh, I know it is all up with me,' answered Peter, 'but let me call outthree times.''You can call a hundred times if you like,' returned Eisenkopf, 'for nowI have got you in my power, and you shall pay for what you have done.''Iron strong, World's weight, Quick ear, fly to my help!' cried Peter.and Quick ear heard, and said to his brothers: 'Listen, our master iscalling us.''You are dreaming, fool,' answered World's weight. 'why he has notfinished his breakfast.' And he gave Quick ear a slap with his paw, forhe was young and needed to be taught sense.'Iron strong, World's weight, Quick ear, fly to my help!' cried Peteragain.This time World's weight heard also, and he said, 'Ah, now our master isreally calling.''How silly you are!' answered Iron strong. 'you know that at this hourhe is always eating.' And he gave World's weight a cuff, because he wasold enough to know better.Peter sat trembling on the tree dreading lest his dogs had never heard,or else that, having heard, they had refused to come. It was his lastchance, so making a mighty effort he shrieked once more:'Iron strong, World's weight, Quick ear, fly to my help, or I am a deadman!'And Iron strong heard, and said: 'Yes, he is certainly calling, we mustgo at once.' And in an instant he had burst open the door, and all threewere bounding away in the direction of the voice. When they reached thefoot of the tree Peter just said: 'At him!' And in a few minutes therewas nothing left of Eisenkopf.As soon as his enemy was dead Peter got down and returned to the house,where he bade farewell to the old woman and her daughter, who gave hima beautiful ring, all set with diamonds. It was really a magic ring, butneither Peter nor the maiden knew that.Peter's heart was heavy as he set out for home. He had ceased to lovethe wife whom he had left at his wedding feast, and his heart had goneout to the golden haired girl. However, it was no use thinking of that,so he rode forward steadily.The fire had to be passed through before he had gone very far, and whenhe came to it, Peter shook the napkins three times in the flames and apassage opened for trim. But then a curious thing happened. the threedogs, who had followed at his heels all the way, now became three cakesagain, which Peter put into his bag with the napkins. After that hestopped at the houses of the three old women, and gave each one back hernapkin and her cake.'Where is my wife?' asked Peter, when he reached home.'Oh, my dear son, why did you ever leave us? After you had vanished, noone knew where, your poor wife grew more and more wretched, and wouldneither eat nor drink. Little by little she faded away, and a month agowe laid her in her grave, to hide her sorrows under the earth.'At this news Peter began to weep, for he had loved his wife before hewent away and had seen the golden haired maiden.He went sorrowfully about his work for the space of half a year, when,one night, he dreamed that he moved the diamond ring given him by themaiden from his right hand and put it on the wedding finger of the left.The dream was so real that he awoke at once and changed the ring fromone hand to the other. And as he did so guess what he saw? Why, thegolden haired girl standing before him. And he sprang up and kissed her,and said: 'Now you are mine for ever and ever, and when we die we willboth be buried in one grave.'And so they were.