In the legendary ages of this island, a set of people called gamaralas, "village esquires," are said to have existed in different parts of the country. Their position and circumstances, if I understand rightly, were similar to those of the farmers who lived in England in the last century. But some of the gamaralas were conspicuous for their extreme stupidity.The following story will show how foolish a wife of one of these gamaralas was on one occasion. I heard the story related by an old woman, one of a class frequenting the houses of rich natives for gossip and a free meal.In order to render the story intelligible, it is necessary that I should explain the phrase which heads this paper. It is a common phrase among the Sinhalese, and is well understood by them. It literally means that one has gone to that world and returned to this world. " Elova, " "that world," means the next world, or the place whither the dead go. and " melova, " "this world," signi?es the earth, where mankind dwell.The phrase is used in reference to one who, having been at the point of death, recovered unexpectedly. It appears, however, that there are some extremely ignorant people, who understand the phrase literally, and think that the person in reference to whom it is used has actually gone to a world which is beyond the grave, and has come back to this world.After this explanation, I shall proceed to narrate the story:There was once a gamarala in whose absence a beggar, who was very lean, weak, and worn out by sickness, came to his house.The gamarala's wife wondered how he could be so dis?gured, and said to him, "Dear me! What has happened to you?"The man replied, " Mama noboda elova gohin melova ava vada. "   "Having lately gone to the other world I have come to this world," or in plain language, "I almost died and recovered."The woman understood the words literally, and thought within herself that the man went lately to the land of the departed souls, and then returned to this world. She was wonderstruck, and she listened to him with very great attention, with her mouth wide open and her eyes intently ?xed upon him.She then very tenderly addressed him and said to him, "As you have come from the other world, you must have seen our daughter Kaluhami, who died and went to elova a few days ago. Pray tell me how she is."The man at once understood the woman's mistake and shrewdly answered, "Madam! She is my wife, and lives with me at present, and she has sent me to you for her geranam malla. " This is a bag in which young women in those times kept all that they considered valuable of their private property.The woman, believing the beggar to be her son in law, asked him very kindly to sit down and wait a few minutes, as the gamarala was expected to return by that time. but the man said that he could not prolong his stay as his wife, Kaluhami, would be impatiently waiting for his return. So saying, he requested her to give him the geranam malla.The woman placed before her supposed son in law a sumptuous breakfast, which he ?nished hastily, saying that he was anxious to get away without any loss of time. The woman then delivered to him the geranam malla, together with all the jewelry and such other articles that had been intended as presents to Kaluhami on her wedding day.The beggar, leaving the house with the valuables, was returning to his village as fast as he could, knowing that on the gamarala's return the woman would tell him all that had transpired at his house in his absence, and that he would then be irritated and would follow him for the purpose of arresting him and getting back the property. It was not long before his worst fears were realized.He saw the gamarala riding furiously after him calling out, "Stop you rogue! Stop scoundrel!"The cunning beggar ran up at once to a large tree that stood by the road side and climbed it. The gamarala rode up to the spot and dismounting from the horse tied it to the tree and climbed it with great dif?culty, whereupon the beggar hastily descended to the ground by means of a branch extending towards the opposite direction, and untying the horse and mounting on it galloped away as fast as he could.The gamarala then came down from the tree, and, seeing the man at such a distance that it was quite beyond his power to overtake him, called out to him and said, "My son in law, tell our daughter that the geranam malla and jewels are from her mother, and that the horse is from me."