Emperor Heinrich the Fowler liked to stay at Goslar, which he often did,and many stories are told about him there. Above all they tell about howmarvelously beautiful his wife was, and how he could not be consoled whenshe died.After his grief had subsided somewhat, he revealed to his own daughter,who was almost more beautiful than her mother, his sinful desire to marryher. She appropriately resisted him, finally convincing him to first totravel to the courts of all the kings and counts in Europe in search of aspouse more beautiful than she. He traveled far and wide, but finallyreturned with the news that a more beautiful woman could not be foundanywhere. But still she resisted his pleas and his advances.Finally he set the condition that he would desist from his demands if shecould create a blanket upon which all of the earths animals could be seen.She went into a small chapel in the upper city and fervently prayed toGod, but she found no comfort in her prayers, so finally in despair shecalled upon the devil to come and help her. He appeared immediately,saying that he would bring the blanket to her, if she could remain awakein the chapel for three days and three nights.She brought her little dog into the chapel with her and spent the timeceaselessly praying. However, during the third night, just as morning wasbreaking, sleep almost overcame her. At that moment the devil approached,and her little dog, seeing him, pulled at her skirt so vigorously that shejumped up.The devil angrily dropped the blanket, furiously threw the little dogagainst church wall, and disappeared. She took the blanket to her father,who then was overcome by such powerful pain that he lost all will to live.He bewitched himself into the Sudemer Mountain near Goslar, whosewatchtower is visible throughout the region. There he sits until thepresent day, and will return only when Goslar finds itself in great need,or when the Day of Judgment arrives.Others say that the emperor is sitting in Rammel Mountain, and that beforehis death he had three stones mortared into the Goslars city wall, sayingthat he would return when these stones fall out. But no one knows whichstones they are.