THE HUT IN THE FOREST.Outside in the forest there was deep snow. The white snow had crustedthe branches of the pine trees, and piled itself up them till theybent under its weight. Now and then a snow laden branch would bend toofar, and huge lumps of snow fell crashing to the ground under thetrees. Then the branch would swing up, and the snow covered it againwith a cold white burden. Sitting in the hut you could hear thecrashing again and again out in the forest, as the tired branchesflung down their loads of snow. Yes, and now and then there was thehowling of wolves far away.Little Maroosia heard them, and thought of them out there in the darkas they galloped over the snow. She sat closer to Vanya, her brother,and they were both as near as they could get to the door of thestove, where they could see the red fire burning busily, keeping thewhole hut warm. The stove filled a quarter of the hut, but that wasbecause it was a bed as well. There were blankets on it, and in thoseblankets Vanya and Maroosia rolled up and went to sleep at night, aswarm as little baking cakes.The hut was made of pine logs cut from the forest. You could see themarks of the axe. Old Peter was the grandfather of Maroosia and Vanya.He lived alone with them in the hut in the forest, because theirfather and mother were both dead. Maroosia and Vanya could hardlyremember them, and they were very happy with old Peter, who was verykind to them and did all he could to keep them warm and well fed. Helet them help him in everything, even in stuffing the windows withmoss to keep the cold out when winter began. The moss kept the lightout too, but that did not matter. It would be all the jollier in thespring when the sun came pouring in.Besides old Peter and Maroosia and Vanya there were Vladimir andBayan. Vladimir was a cat, a big black cat, as stately as an emperor,and just now he was lying in Vanya's arms fast asleep. Bayan was adog, a tall gray wolf dog. He could jump over the table with a singlebound. When he was in the hut he usually lay underneath the table,because that was the only place where he could lie without being inthe way. And, of course at meal times he was in the way even there.Just now he was out with old Peter."I wonder what story it will be to night?" said Maroosia."So do I," said Vanya. "I wish they'd be quick and come back."Vladimir stirred suddenly in Vanya's lap, and a minute later theyheard the scrunch of boots in the snow, and the stamping of oldPeter's feet trying to get the snow off his boots. Then the dooropened, and Bayan pushed his way in and shook himself, and lickedMaroosia and Vanya and startled Vladimir, and lay down under the tableand came out again, because he was so pleased to be home. And oldPeter came in after him, with his gun on his back and a hare in hishand. He shook himself just like Bayan, and the snow flew off likespray. He hung up his gun, flung the hare into a corner of the hut,and laughed."You are snug in here, little pigeons," he said.Vanya and Maroosia had jumped up to welcome him, and when he openedhis big sheepskin coat, they tumbled into it together and clung to hisbelt. Then he closed the big woolly coat over the top of them and theysquealed. and he opened it a little way and looked down at them overhis beard, and then closed it again for a moment before letting themout. He did this every night, and Bayan always barked when they wereshut up inside.Then old Peter took his big coat off and lifted down the samovar fromthe shelf. The samovar is like a big tea urn, with a red hot fire inthe middle of it keeping the water boiling. It hums like a bee on thetea table, and the steam rises in a little jet from a tiny hole in thetop. The boiling water comes out of a tap at the bottom. Old Peterthrew in the lighted sticks and charcoal, and made a draught to drawthe heat, and then set the samovar on the table with the little firecrackling in its inside. Then he cut some big lumps of black bread.Then he took a great saucepan full of soup, that was simmering on thestove, and emptied it into a big wooden bowl. Then he went to the wallwhere, on three nails, hung three wooden spoons, deep like ladles.There were one big spoon, for old Peter. and two little spoons, onefor Vanya and one for Maroosia.And all the time that old Peter was getting supper ready he wasanswering questions and making jokes old ones, of course, that hemade every day about how plump the children were, and how fat wasbetter to eat than butter, and what the Man in the Moon said when hefell out, and what the wolf said who caught his own tail and atehimself up before he found out his mistake.And Vanya and Maroosia danced about the hut and chuckled.Then they had supper, all three dipping their wooden spoons in the bigbowl together, and eating a tremendous lot of black bread. And, ofcourse, there were scraps for Vladimir and a bone for Bayan.After that they had tea with sugar but no milk, because they wereRussians and liked it that way.Then came the stories. Old Peter made another glass of tea forhimself, not for the children. His throat was old, he said, and took alot of keeping wet. and they were young, and would not sleep if theydrank tea too near bedtime. Then he threw a log of wood into thestove. Then he lit a short little pipe, full of very strong tobacco,called Mahorka, which has a smell like hot tin. And he puffed, and thesmoke got in his eyes, and he wiped them with the back of his bighand.All the time he was doing this Vanya and Maroosia were snugglingtogether close by the stove, thinking what story they would ask for,and listening to the crashing of the snow as it fell from the treesoutside. Now that old Peter was at home, the noise made them feelcomfortable and warm. Before, perhaps, it made them feel a littlefrightened."Well, little pigeons, little hawks, little bear cubs, what is it tobe?" said old Peter."We don't know," said Maroosia."Long hair, short sense, little she pigeon," said old Peter. "All thistime and not thought of a story? Would you like the tale of the littleSnow Girl who was not loved so much as a hen?""Not to night, grandfather," said Vanya."We'd like that tale when the snow melts," said Maroosia."To night we'd like a story we've never heard before," said Vanya."Well, well," said old Peter, combing his great gray beard with hisfingers, and looking out at them with twinkling eyes from under hisbig bushy eyebrows. "Have I ever told you the story of 'The SilverSaucer and the Transparent Apple'?""No, no, never," cried Vanya and Maroosia at once.Old Peter took a last pull at his pipe, and Vanya and Maroosiawriggled with excitement. Then he drank a sip of tea. Then he began.