Worker"I will tell you," (said Eucrates,) "another incident derived from my ownexperience, not from hearsay. Perhaps even you, Tychiades, when you haveheard it, may be convinced of the truth of the story."When I was living in Egypt during my youth (my father had sent metraveling for the purpose of completing my education), I took it into myhead to sail up to Koptos and go from there to the statue of Memnon inorder to hear it sound that marvelous salutation to the rising sun. Well,what I heard from it was not a meaningless voice, as in the generalexperience of common people. Memnon himself actually opened his mouth anddelivered me an oracle in seven verses, and if it were not too much of adigression, I would have repeated the very verses for you. But on thevoyage up, there chanced to be sailing with us a man from Memphis, one ofthe scribes of the temple, wonderfully learned, familiar with all theculture of the Egyptians. He was said to have lived underground fortwenty three years in their sanctuaries, learning magic from Isis."You mean Pancrates," said Arignotus, "my own teacher, a holy man, cleanshaven, in white linen, always deep in thought, speaking imperfect Greek,tall, flat nosed, with protruding lips and thinnish legs."That self same Pancrates, and at first I did not know who he was, but whenI saw him working all sorts of wonders whenever we anchored the boat,particularly riding on crocodiles and swimming in company with the beasts,while they fawned and wagged their tails, I recognized that he was a holyman, and by degrees, through my friendly behavior, I became his companionand associate, so that he shared all his secret knowledge with me.At last he persuaded me to leave all my servants behind in Memphis and togo with him quite alone, for we should not lack people to wait upon us.and thereafter we got on in that way. But whenever we came to a stoppingplace, the man would take either the bar of the door or the broom or eventhe pestle, put clothes upon it, say a certain spell over it, and make itwalk, appearing to everyone else to be a man. It would go off and drawwater and buy provisions and prepare meals and in every way deftly serveand wait upon us. Then, when he was through with its services, he wouldagain make the broom a broom or the pestle a pestle by saying anotherspell over it.Though I was very keen to learn this from him, I could not do so, for hewas jealous, although most ready to oblige in everything else. But one dayI secretly overheard the spell   it was just three syllables   by takingmy stand in a dark place. He went off to the square after telling thepestle what it had to do, and on the next day, while he was transactingsome business in the square, I took the pestle, dressed it up in the sameway, said the syllables over it, and told it to carry water.When it had filled and brought in the jar, I said, "Stop! Don't carry anymore water. Be a pestle again!"But it would not obey me now. it kept straight on carrying until it filledthe house with water for us by pouring it in! At my wit's end over thething, for I feared that Pancrates might come back and be angry, as wasindeed the case, I took an axe and cut the pestle in two. but each parttook a jar and began to carry water, with the result that instead of oneservant I had now two.Meanwhile Pancrates appeared on the scene, and comprehending what hadhappened, turned them into wood again, just as they were before the spell,and then for his own part left me to my own devices without warning,taking himself off out of sight somewhere."Then you still know how to turn the pestle into a man?" said Deinomachus."Yes," said he. "Only half way, however, for I cannot bring it back to itsoriginal form if it once becomes a water carrier, but we shall be obligedto let the house be flooded with the water that is poured in!""Will you never stop telling such buncombe, old men as you are? " said I." If you will not, at least for the sake of these lads put your amazingand fearful tales off to some other time, so that they may not be filledup with terrors and strange figments before we realise it. You ought to beeasy with them and not accustom them to hear things like this which willabide with them and annoy them their lives long and will make them afraidof every sound by filling them with all sorts of superstition."