King Hugh Curucha lived in Tir Conal, and he had three daughters, whosenames were Fair, Brown, and Trembling. Fair and Brown had new dresses,and went to church every Sunday. Trembling was kept at home to do thecooking and work. They would not let her go out of the house at all.for she was more beautiful than the other two, and they were in dreadshe might marry before themselves.They carried on in this way for seven years. At the end of seven yearsthe son of the king of Emania fell in love with the eldest sister.One Sunday morning, after the other two had gone to church, the oldhenwife came into the kitchen to Trembling, and said: "It's at churchyou ought to be this day, instead of working here at home.""How could I go?" said Trembling. "I have no clothes good enough towear at church. and if my sisters were to see me there, they'd kill mefor going out of the house.""I'll give you," said the henwife, "a finer dress than either of themhas ever seen. And now tell me what dress will you have?""I'll have," said Trembling, "a dress as white as snow, and green shoesfor my feet."Then the henwife put on the cloak of darkness, clipped a piece from theold clothes the young woman had on, and asked for the whitest robes inthe world and the most beautiful that could be found, and a pair ofgreen shoes.That moment she had the robe and the shoes, and she brought them toTrembling, who put them on. When Trembling was dressed and ready, thehenwife said: "I have a honey bird here to sit on your right shoulder,and a honey finger to put on your left. At the door stands a milk whitemare, with a golden saddle for you to sit on, and a golden bridle tohold in your hand."Trembling sat on the golden saddle. and when she was ready to start,the henwife said: "You must not go inside the door of the church, andthe minute the people rise up at the end of Mass, do you make off, andride home as fast as the mare will carry you."When Trembling came to the door of the church there was no one insidewho could get a glimpse of her but was striving to know who she was.and when they saw her hurrying away at the end of Mass, they ran out toovertake her. But no use in their running. she was away before any mancould come near her. From the minute she left the church till she gothome, she overtook the wind before her, and outstripped the wind behind.She came down at the door, went in, and found the henwife had dinnerready. She put off the white robes, and had on her old dress in atwinkling.When the two sisters came home the henwife asked: "Have you any newsto day from the church?""We have great news," said they. "We saw a wonderful grand lady at thechurch door. The like of the robes she had we have never seen on womanbefore. It's little that was thought of our dresses beside what she hadon. and there wasn't a man at the church, from the king to the beggar,but was trying to look at her and know who she was."The sisters would give no peace till they had two dresses like therobes of the strange lady. but honey birds and honey fingers were notto be found.Next Sunday the two sisters went to church again, and left the youngestat home to cook the dinner.After they had gone, the henwife came in and asked: "Will you go tochurch to day?""I would go," said Trembling, "if I could get the going.""What robe will you wear?" asked the henwife."The finest black satin that can be found, and red shoes for my feet.""What colour do you want the mare to be?""I want her to be so black and so glossy that I can see myself in herbody."The henwife put on the cloak of darkness, and asked for the robes andthe mare. That moment she had them. When Trembling was dressed, thehenwife put the honey bird on her right shoulder and the honey fingeron her left. The saddle on the mare was silver, and so was the bridle.When Trembling sat in the saddle and was going away, the henwifeordered her strictly not to go inside the door of the church, but torush away as soon as the people rose at the end of Mass, and hurry homeon the mare before any man could stop her.That Sunday, the people were more astonished than ever, and gazed ather more than the first time. and all they were thinking of was to knowwho she was. But they had no chance. for the moment the people rose atthe end of Mass she slipped from the church, was in the silver saddle,and home before a man could stop her or talk to her.The henwife had the dinner ready. Trembling took off her satin robe,and had on her old clothes before her sisters got home."What news have you to day?" asked the henwife of the sisters when theycame from the church."Oh, we saw the grand strange lady again! And it's little that any mancould think of our dresses after looking at the robes of satin that shehad on! And all at church, from high to low, had their mouths open,gazing at her, and no man was looking at us."The two sisters gave neither rest nor peace till they got dresses asnearly like the strange lady's robes as they could find. Of course theywere not so good. for the like of those robes could not be found inErin.When the third Sunday came, Fair and Brown went to church dressed inblack satin. They left Trembling at home to work in the kitchen, andtold her to be sure and have dinner ready when they came back.After they had gone and were out of sight, the henwife came to thekitchen and said: "Well, my dear, are you for church to day?""I would go if I had a new dress to wear.""I'll get you any dress you ask for. What dress would you like?" askedthe henwife."A dress red as a rose from the waist down, and white as snow from thewaist up. a cape of green on my shoulders. and a hat on my head with ared, a white, and a green feather in it. and shoes for my feet with thetoes red, the middle white, and the backs and heels green."The henwife put on the cloak of darkness, wished for all these things,and had them. When Trembling was dressed, the henwife put thehoney bird on her right shoulder and the honey finger on her left, and,placing the hat on her head, clipped a few hairs from one lock and afew from another with her scissors, and that moment the most beautifulgolden hair was flowing down over the girl's shoulders. Then thehenwife asked what kind of a mare she would ride. She said white, withblue and gold coloured diamond shaped spots all over her body, on herback a saddle of gold, and on her head a golden bridle.The mare stood there before the door, and a bird sitting between herears, which began to sing as soon as Trembling was in the saddle, andnever stopped till she came home from the church.The fame of the beautiful strange lady had gone out through the world,and all the princes and great men that were in it came to church thatSunday, each one hoping that it was himself would have her home withhim after Mass.The son of the king of Emania forgot all about the eldest sister, andremained outside the church, so as to catch the strange lady before shecould hurry away.The church was more crowded than ever before, and there were threetimes as many outside. There was such a throng before the church thatTrembling could only come inside the gate.As soon as the people were rising at the end of Mass, the lady slippedout through the gate, was in the golden saddle in an instant, andsweeping away ahead of the wind. But if she was, the prince of Emaniawas at her side, and, seizing her by the foot, he ran with the mare forthirty perches, and never let go of the beautiful lady till the shoewas pulled from her foot, and he was left behind with it in his hand.She came home as fast as the mare could carry her, and was thinking allthe time that the henwife would kill her for losing the shoe.Seeing her so vexed and so changed in the face, the old woman asked:"What's the trouble that's on you now?" "Oh! I've lost one of the shoesoff my feet," said Trembling."Don't mind that. don't be vexed," said the henwife. "maybe it's thebest thing that ever happened to you."Then Trembling gave up all the things she had to the henwife, put onher old clothes, and went to work in the kitchen. When the sisters camehome, the henwife asked: "Have you any news from the church?""We have indeed," said they, "for we saw the grandest sight to day. Thestrange lady came again, in grander array than before. On herself andthe horse she rode were the finest colours of the world, and betweenthe ears of the horse was a bird which never stopped singing from thetime she came till she went away. The lady herself is the mostbeautiful woman ever seen by man in Erin."After Trembling had disappeared from the church, the son of the king ofEmania said to the other kings' sons: "I will have that lady for myown."They all said: "You didn't win her just by taking the shoe off herfoot. you'll have to win her by the point of the sword. you'll have tofight for her with us before you can call her your own.""Well," said the son of the king of Emania, "when I find the lady thatshoe will fit, I'll fight for her, never fear, before I leave her toany of you."Then all the kings' sons were uneasy, and anxious to know who was shethat lost the shoe. and they began to travel all over Erin to knowcould they find her. The prince of Emania and all the others went in agreat company together, and made the round of Erin. they wenteverywhere, north, south, east, and west. They visited every placewhere a woman was to be found, and left not a house in the kingdom theydid not search, to know could they find the woman the shoe would fit,not caring whether she was rich or poor, of high or low degree.The prince of Emania always kept the shoe. and when the young women sawit, they had great hopes, for it was of proper size, neither large norsmall, and it would beat any man to know of what material it was made.One thought it would fit her if she cut a little from her great toe.and another, with too short a foot, put something in the tip of herstocking. But no use. they only spoiled their feet, and were curingthem for months afterwards.The two sisters, Fair and Brown, heard that the princes of the worldwere looking all over Erin for the woman that could wear the shoe, andevery day they were talking of trying it on. and one day Tremblingspoke up and said: "Maybe it's my foot that the shoe will fit.""Oh, the breaking of the dog's foot on you! Why say so when you were athome every Sunday?"They were that way waiting, and scolding the younger sister, till theprinces were near the place. The day they were to come, the sisters putTrembling in a closet, and locked the door on her. When the companycame to the house, the prince of Emania gave the shoe to the sisters.But though they tried and tried, it would fit neither of them."Is there any other young woman in the house?" asked the prince."There is," said Trembling, speaking up in the closet. "I'm here.""Oh! we have her for nothing but to put out the ashes," said thesisters.But the prince and the others wouldn't leave the house till they hadseen her. so the two sisters had to open the door. When Trembling cameout, the shoe was given to her, and it fitted exactly.The prince of Emania looked at her and said: "You are the woman theshoe fits, and you are the woman I took the shoe from."Then Trembling spoke up, and said: "Do you stay here till I return."Then she went to the henwife's house. The old woman put on the cloak ofdarkness, got everything for her she had the first Sunday at church,and put her on the white mare in the same fashion. Then Trembling rodealong the highway to the front of the house. All who saw her the firsttime said: "This is the lady we saw at church."Then she went away a second time, and a second time came back on theblack mare in the second dress which the henwife gave her. All who sawher the second Sunday said: "That is the lady we saw at church."A third time she asked for a short absence, and soon came back on thethird mare and in the third dress. All who saw her the third time said:"That is the lady we saw at church." Every man was satisfied, and knewthat she was the woman.Then all the princes and great men spoke up, and said to the son of theking of Emania: "You'll have to fight now for her before we let her gowith you.""I'm here before you, ready for combat," answered the prince.Then the son of the king of Lochlin stepped forth. The struggle began,and a terrible struggle it was. They fought for nine hours. and thenthe son of the king of Lochlin stopped, gave up his claim, and left thefield. Next day the son of the king of Spain fought six hours, andyielded his claim. On the third day the son of the king of Nyerfoifought eight hours, and stopped. The fourth day the son of the king ofGreece fought six hours, and stopped. On the fifth day no more strangeprinces wanted to fight. and all the sons of kings in Erin said theywould not fight with a man of their own land, that the strangers hadhad their chance, and, as no others came to claim the woman, shebelonged of right to the son of the king of Emania.The marriage day was fixed, and the invitations were sent out. Thewedding lasted for a year and a day. When the wedding was over, theking's son brought home the bride, and when the time came a son wasborn. The young woman sent for her eldest sister, Fair, to be with herand care for her. One day, when Trembling was well, and when herhusband was away hunting, the two sisters went out to walk. and whenthey came to the seaside, the eldest pushed the youngest sister in. Agreat whale came and swallowed her.The eldest sister came home alone, and the husband asked, "Where isyour sister?""She has gone home to her father in Ballyshannon. now that I am well, Idon't need her.""Well," said the husband, looking at her, "I'm in dread it's my wifethat has gone.""Oh! no," said she. "it's my sister Fair that's gone."Since the sisters were very much alike, the prince was in doubt. Thatnight he put his sword between them, and said: "If you are my wife,this sword will get warm. if not, it will stay cold."In the morning when he rose up, the sword was as cold as when he put itthere.It happened, when the two sisters were walking by the seashore, that alittle cowboy was down by the water minding cattle, and saw Fair pushTrembling into the sea. and next day, when the tide came in, he saw thewhale swim up and throw her out on the sand. When she was on the sandshe said to the cowboy: "When you go home in the evening with the cows,tell the master that my sister Fair pushed me into the sea yesterday.that a whale swallowed me, and then threw me out, but will come againand swallow me with the coming of the next tide. then he'll go out withthe tide, and come again with to morrow's tide, and throw me again onthe strand. The whale will cast me out three times. I'm under theenchantment of this whale, and cannot leave the beach or escape myself.Unless my husband saves me before I'm swallowed the fourth time, Ishall be lost. He must come and shoot the whale with a silver bulletwhen he turns on the broad of his back. Under the breast fin of thewhale is a reddish brown spot. My husband must hit him in that spot,for it is the only place in which he can be killed."When the cowboy got home, the eldest sister gave him a draught ofoblivion, and he did not tell.Next day he went again to the sea. The whale came and cast Trembling onshore again. She asked the boy "Did you tell the master what I told youto tell him?""I did not," said he. "I forgot.""How did you forget?" asked she."The woman of the house gave me a drink that made me forget.""Well, don't forget telling him this night. and if she gives you adrink, don't take it from her."As soon as the cowboy came home, the eldest sister offered him a drink.He refused to take it till he had delivered his message and told all tothe master. The third day the prince went down with his gun and asilver bullet in it. He was not long down when the whale came and threwTrembling upon the beach as the two days before. She had no power tospeak to her husband till he had killed the whale. Then the whale wentout, turned over once on the broad of his back, and showed the spot fora moment only. That moment the prince fired. He had but the one chance,and a short one at that. but he took it, and hit the spot, and thewhale, mad with pain, made the sea all around red with blood, and died.That minute Trembling was able to speak, and went home with herhusband, who sent word to her father what the eldest sister had done.The father came, and told him any death he chose to give her to giveit. The prince told the father he would leave her life and death withhimself. The father had her put out then on the sea in a barrel, withprovisions in it for seven years.In time Trembling had a second child, a daughter. The prince and shesent the cowboy to school, and trained him up as one of their ownchildren, and said: "If the little girl that is born to us now lives,no other man in the world will get her but him."The cowboy and the prince's daughter lived on till they were married.The mother said to her husband "You could not have saved me from thewhale but for the little cowboy. on that account I don't grudge him mydaughter."The son of the king of Emania and Trembling had fourteen children, andthey lived happily till the two died of old age.