Once upon a time there was a sorcerer who was a thief. He disguisedhimself as a poor man and went begging from house to house. A girl came tothe door and brought him a piece of bread. He touched her, and she wasforced to jump into his pack basket. Then he carried her to his housewhere everything was splendid, and he gave her everything that shewanted.One day he said, "I have to take care of something away from home. Iwill be away for a while. Here is an egg. Take good care of it. Carry itwith you at all times. And here is a key, but at the risk of your life, donot go into the room that it opens. But as soon as he had gone, sheunlocked the door and went into the room. In the middle there was a largebasin. In it there were dead and dismembered people. She was so terrifiedthat she dropped the egg, which she was holding in her hand, into thebasin. She quickly took it out again and wiped off the blood, but itreappeared in an instant. She could not get the egg clean, no matter howmuch she wiped and scrubbed.When the man returned, he asked for the egg and the key. He looked atthem and knew that she had been in the blood chamber. "You did not heed mywords," he said angrily, "and now you are going into the chamber againstyour will." With that he seized her, led her into the room, cut her up inpieces, and threw her into the basin with the others.Sometime later the man went begging again. He captured the seconddaughter from the house, and the same thing happened to her as to thefirst one. She too opened the forbidden door, dropped the egg into theblood, and was cut to pieces and thrown into the basin.Then the sorcerer wanted to have the third daughter. He captured her inhis pack basket, carried her home, and at his departure gave her the eggand the key. However, the third sister was clever and sly. First of all,she put the egg in a safe place, and then she went into the secretchamber. When she saw her sisters in the basin, she found all of theirparts and put each one back in its right place: head, body, arm, and leg.The parts started to move, and then they joined together, and the twosister came back to life. She took them both out of the room and hidthem.When the man returned and found that the egg was free of blood, heasked her to become his bride. She said yes, but told him that first hewould have to carry a basket filled with gold on his back to her parents,and that meanwhile she would be getting ready for the wedding. Then shetold her sisters to get help from home. She put them into the basket andcovered them over with gold. Then she said to the man, "Carry this away.And don't you dare stop to rest. If you do, I'll be able to see through mywindow." He lifted the basket onto his back and started off, but it was soheavy that the weight nearly killed him. He wanted to rest a little, butone of the girls inside the basket called out, "I can see through mywindow that you are resting. Walk on at once!" He thought it was his bridecalling out, so he got up and walked on. Every time he wanted to rest, heheard the call, and had to continue on.Meanwhile, back at his house, his bride dressed up a skull and placedit in the attic window. Then she invited all the sorcerer's friends to thewedding. Then she dipped herself in a barrel of honey, cut open the bed,and rolled in the feathers so that no one would be able to recognize her.In this strange disguise, she left the house and started down the path.Soon she met some of the guests, who said, "You, Fitcher's bird, where areyou coming from?""I'm coming from Fitcher's house.""And what is his young bride doing?""She's cleaning the house from bottom to top. Right now she is lookingout of the attic window."Then she also met the bridegroom, who was returning home."You, Fitcher's bird, where are you coming from?""I'm coming from Fitcher's house.""And what is my young bride doing?""She's cleaning the house from bottom to top. Right now she is lookingout of the attic window."The bridegroom looked up, and saw the disguised skull. Thinking it washis bride, he waved to it. But after he arrived home, and all his friendswere there as well, the help came that the sisters had sent. They closedup the house and set it afire, and because no one could get out, they allperished in the flames.