Once upon a time there was a poor peasant woman. She was a widow andhad but one son. His name was Hans, and he was very stupid.It was summertime, and his mother gave him a large pot of honey,saying, "I am sending you to town to sell this, but don't let people saytoo much to you." She was afraid that people would bargain too much withhim.Arriving in town, he cried out, "Buy my honey!"The people said, "How much does it cost?"He said, "You are saying too much to me.""Can't we at least ask how much it costs?""No," he said, "you have already said too much," and he packed up andleft town.Out in the country the flies and wasps swarmed around him, wanting hishoney."Buy my honey!" he said. They were not able to say anything to him, sohe poured his honey out on the ground. "You'll have to pay me in a week,"he said.Then he went home and told his mother, "I sold the honey and will getthe money in a week."A week later he again set off for town. Because of the money for thehoney he took along a stout cudgel. He arrived at the spot, and there werestill bees and flies there licking up the little honey that was left.He said, "I want my money now," but they gave him nothing."I'll make short work of this," he said. "I am reporting you to thejudge."He went to the judge, who asked, "Just what do you want?""The flies and wasps bought honey from me," he said, "and now theyrefuse to pay."The judge began to laugh, seeing that he was dealing with a realsimpleton. "All I can tell you, is that whenever you see a fly you shouldstrike it dead," he answered.Just then a fly flew onto the judge's nose, and Hans hit the fly on hisnose."Ouch, Jeez, my nose!" cried the judge.Then Hans said, "I was hitting at the fly, not at your nose."Then the judge thought, "He could kill someone if he sees a fly sittingon them. And who allowed it to happen? The judge, that's what people willsay." So he asked, "How much did your honey cost?""Three hundred florins," said Hans.So the judge wrote him a slip and sent him with it to the cashier,and when he received his money, he returned home.