Tell a SecretFederigo da Pozzuolo, a man learned in the language of animals, isearnestly pressed by his wife to tell her a certain secret, but in lieu ofthis be beats her in strange fashion.It is the duty of all wise and prudent men to hold their wives in due fearand subjection, and on no account to be induced by them to wear theirbreeches as head gear. If indeed they should be led to follow othercourses than these, they will of a surety have good cause to repent in theend.It happened one day that Federigo da Pozzuolo, a young man of great partsand prudence, was riding towards Naples on a mare of his which was infoal, carrying behind him on the crupper his wife, who was also pregnant.Likewise there was a young colt which followed the mare its mother, and,having been left some distance behind on the road, it began to neigh, andto cry out in its own language, "Mother, mother, go slowly, I pray you.because I, being very young and tender, and only just a year old, am notable in my pace to follow in your footsteps."Hearing this the mare pricked up her ears, and, sniffing the air with hernostrils, began also to neigh loudly, and said in answer to her colt, "Ihave to carry my mistress, who is with child, and in addition to this Ibear a young brother of yours in my womb. while you, who are young andbrisk, carry no burden of any sort strapped on your back, and yet youdeclare that you cannot travel. Come on, if you wish to come. but if not,go and do whatever pleases you."The young man, when he understood the meaning of these words (for be itknown he was well skilled in the utterances of birds and of all theanimals that live on earth), smiled somewhat. whereupon his wife, who wasgreatly filled with wonder thereanent, questioned him as to the reason whyhe smiled.To this her husband made answer that he had laughed spontaneously. butthat, if in any event he should be led to tell her the cause of hislaughter, she might take it for certain that the Fates would without moreado cut the thread of his life, and that he would die on the spot.But the importunate woman was not satisfied with this, and replied thatshe wanted, at all hazard, to know the reason why he had thus laughed.adding that if he would not tell her she would lay hold of him by theweazand.Then the husband, finding himself thus placed in a position of difficultyand danger, answered her, speaking thus, "When we shall have returned toPozzuolo you shall set in order all my affairs, and make all the necessaryprovisions both for my body and my soul after death. Then I will makeknown to you all you want to learn."As soon as her husband had given her this promise the wicked and maliciouswoman was silent, and when they were returned to Pozzuolo she quicklyrecalled to mind the promise which had been made to her, and forthwithbesought her husband to be as good as his word.Whereupon Federigo replied by charging her to go at once and fetch thepriest, forasmuch as, seeing that he must needs die on account of thismatter, he was anxious first to confess himself, and to recommend himselfto his Maker. As soon as she should have done this, he would tell her all.Thereupon the wife, who was determined to see her husband lying deadrather than give up aught of her pestilent wishes, went forthwith tosummon the confessor.At this moment, while Federigo was lying in his bed, overcome with grief,he heard his dog address certain words to his cock, who was crowing aloud,"Are you not ashamed of yourself, wretch and ribald that you are, to crowthus? Our good master is lying very near his last breath, and you, whoought to be sorrowful and full of melancholy, keep on crowing as if yourejoiced thereat."To these words the cock promptly made answer, "And supposing that ourmaster should die, what have I to do with that? Am I, indeed, to becharged with causing his death? He wishes to die of his own accord. Do younot know what is written in the first book of the Politics (byAristotle), 'The wife and the servant stand on the same footing.' Seeing,therefore, that the husband is the head of the wife, it is her boundenduty to regard the usages and customs of her husband as the laws of herlife. I, forsooth, have a hundred wives, and, through the workings offear, I make them all most obedient to my commandments, castigating nowone and now another, and giving pecks wherever I may think they aredeserved. And this masterof ours has only a single wife, yet he knows naught how to manage her, andto make her obedient to his commands. Let him die forthwith. Do you notbelieve that our mistress will soon find for herself another husband? Solet it be with him, seeing that he is a man of such little account, andone disposed to give way to the foolish and unbridled will of his wife."The young man, when he had comprehended and well considered in his mindthe words he had just listened to, at once altered his purpose, and feltdeeply grateful to the cock for what he had said. The wife, after she hadcome back from seeking the priest, was still pertinacious to learn thecause of her husband's laughter. wherefore he, having seized her by thehair, began to beat her, and gave her so many and lusty blows that henearly left her for dead.This fable did not vastly please those of the listeners who were ladies,especially when they heard tell of the sound basting which Federigo gavehis wife. Nevertheless, they grieved amain when they heard how she wouldfain have been the cause of her husband's death.