On a desolate plain, a little shepherd boy stood alone. His day's workwas over and he had wandered through field and forest listening to thetwittering of the birds and the soft sound of the summer breezes asthey gently swayed the branches of the trees. He seemed to understandwhat the birds were saying, and the murmuring of the brook that woundits way through the forest was like a message of Nature to him. Sweetsounds were always in his ears, his heart was ever singing, for theshepherd boy was a poet. At times he would turn around sharply,thinking he had heard some one calling. One day he was quite startled."David, David," he thought he heard a voice calling, "thou shalt beKing of Israel."But he could see nothing, except the trees and the flowers, and so heleft the forest and stood in the desolate plain. In the distance hesaw a very high hill and as he approached nearer he noticed on thesummit a tall tree, without branches or leaves. With great difficultyhe climbed the hill. It was quite smooth, bare of vegetation andwithout rocks, and little David noticed that it gave forth none ofthose sweet sounds like music that came from other hills.The summit gained, he looked at the tree in wonderment. It was not ofwood, but of horn."'Tis strange," said the boy. "This must be a magic mountain. No tree,or flower, or shrub, can grow in this barren earth."He tried to dig a clod of earth out of the ground, but could not doso, even with his knife, for the ground was as hard as if covered withtough hide.David was greatly puzzled, but, being a boy of courage, he did notbegin to run down the mountain."I wonder what will happen if I stay here," he said, and he seatedhimself at the foot of the mysterious horn that grew at the summit andlooked about him.Then he noticed a most peculiar thing. The ground was rising andfalling in places as if moved by some power beneath. Listeningintently, he also heard a curious rumbling noise, and then aloud sounding swish. At the same time he saw something rising fromthe other end of the mountain and whirl through the air."That is just like a tail," exclaimed David in surprise.The next minute he had to cling with all his might to the horn, forthe whole mountain was moving. It was rising, and soon David was quitenear the clouds. The earth was a great distance away, and, judging bya tremendous shadow cast by the sun, David could see that he wasclinging to the horn of a gigantic animal."I know what it is now," he said. "This is not a mountain, but aunicorn. The monster must have been lying asleep when I mistook it fora hill."David began to puzzle his brain as to a means of getting down from hisperilous perch."I must wait," he said, "until the animal feeds. He will surely lowerhis head to the ground then and I will slip off."But a new terror awaited him. The roar of a lion was heard in thedistance, and David found that he could understand it."Bow to me, for I am king of the beasts," the lion roared.The lion, however, was so small compared with the unicorn that Davidcould scarcely see it. The unicorn, as soon as it heard the command,began to lower its head, and soon David was enabled to slip to theground. To his alarm he found himself just in front of the lion. Theking of the beasts stood before him with blazing eyes, lashing itssides with his tail. David lost not a moment. Drawing his knife fromhis belt, the brave boy advanced boldly toward the lion.Just then a sound attracted the attention of both the boy and thebeast. It was a deer."I will save thee, boy," it cried. "Mount my back and trust to myspeed."Before the lion could recover from its surprise, David had sprung onto the back of the deer which started to run at lightning speed. Davidclung tightly to its back. Behind him a fierce roar indicated that thelion was in pursuit. Across the desolate plain and through the forestthe chase continued, and when David came within sight of humanhabitations again, the deer stopped."Thou art safe now," the deer said to him. "Thou art to become king,and my command was to save thee. Fear not, I will lead the lionastray."David thanked the deer that had so gallantly saved his life, and assoon as he had slid from its back it dashed off again, faster thanever with the lion still in pursuit. Soon both were out of sight.David sang light heartedly as he returned to his humble home and yearsafterward, when he was king of Israel and remembered his escape, heput the words of his song into one of his Psalms.(: The gates opened from within and the Arab stoodbefore them. (_P. 185_).)