The children, in their little sheepskin coats and high felt boots andfur hats, trudged along the forest path in the snow. Vanya went first,then Maroosia, and then old Peter. The ground was white and the snowwas hard and crisp, and all over the forest could be heard thecrackling of the frost. And as they walked, old Peter told them thestory of the old woman who wanted Frost to marry her daughters.Once upon a time there were an old man and an old woman. Now the oldwoman was the old man's second wife. His first wife had died, and hadleft him with a little daughter: Martha she was called. Then hemarried again, and God gave him a cross wife, and with her two moredaughters, and they were very different from the first.The old woman loved her own daughters, and gave them red kisel jellyevery day, and honey too, as much as they could put into their greedylittle mouths. But poor little Martha, the eldest, she got only whatthe others left. When they were cross they threw away what they left,and then she got nothing at all.The children grew older, and the stepmother made Martha do all thework of the house. She had to fetch the wood for the stove, and lightit and keep it burning. She had to draw the water for her sisters towash their hands in. She had to make the clothes, and wash them andmend them. She had to cook the dinner, and clean the dishes after theothers had done before having a bite for herself.For all that the stepmother was never satisfied, and was for evershouting at her: "Look, the kettle is in the wrong place." "There isdust on the floor." "There is a spot on the tablecloth." or, "Thespoons are not clean, you stupid, ugly, idle hussy." But Martha wasnot idle. She worked all day long, and got up before the sun, whileher sisters never stirred from their beds till it was time for dinner.And she was not stupid. She always had a song on her lips, except whenher stepmother had beaten her. And as for being ugly, she was theprettiest little girl in the village.Her father saw all this, but he could not do anything, for the oldwoman was mistress at home, and he was terribly afraid of her. And asfor the daughters, they saw how their mother treated Martha, and theydid the same. They were always complaining and getting her intotrouble. It was a pleasure to them to see the tears on her prettycheeks.Well, time went on, and the little girl grew up, and the daughters ofthe stepmother were as ugly as could be. Their eyes were always cross,and their mouths were always complaining. Their mother saw that no onewould want to marry either of them while there was Martha about thehouse, with her bright eyes and her songs and her kindness toeverybody.So she thought of a way to get rid of her stepdaughter, and a cruelway it was."See here, old man," says she, "it is high time Martha was married,and I have a bridegroom in mind for her. To morrow morning you mustharness the old mare to the sledge, and put a bit of food together andbe ready to start early, as I'd like to see you back before night."To Martha she said: "To morrow you must pack your things in a box, andput on your best dress to show yourself to your betrothed.""Who is he?" asked Martha with red cheeks."You will know when you see him," said the stepmother.All that night Martha hardly slept. She could hardly believe that shewas really going to escape from the old woman at last, and have a hutof her own, where there would be no one to scold her. She wondered whothe young man was. She hoped he was Fedor Ivanovitch, who had suchkind eyes, and such nimble fingers on the balalaika, and such a merryway of flinging out his heels when he danced the Russian dance. Butalthough he always smiled at her when they met, she felt she hardlydared to hope that it was he. Early in the morning she got up and saidher prayers to God, put the whole hut in order, and packed her thingsinto a little box. That was easy, because she had such few things. Itwas the other daughters who had new dresses. Any old thing was goodenough for Martha. But she put on her best blue dress, and there shewas, as pretty a little maid as ever walked under the birch trees inspring.The old man harnessed the mare to the sledge and brought it to thedoor. The snow was very deep and frozen hard, and the wind peeled theskin from his ears before he covered them with the flaps of his furhat."Sit down at the table and have a bite before you go," says the oldwoman.The old man sat down, and his daughter with him, and drank a glass oftea and ate some black bread. And the old woman put some cabbage soup,left from the day before, in a saucer, and said to Martha, "Eat this,my little pigeon, and get ready for the road." But when she said "mylittle pigeon," she did not smile with her eyes, but only with hercruel mouth, and Martha was afraid. The old woman whispered to the oldman: "I have a word for you, old fellow. You will take Martha to herbetrothed, and I'll tell you the way. You go straight along, and thentake the road to the right into the forest ... you know ... straightto the big fir tree that stands on a hillock, and there you will giveMartha to her betrothed and leave her. He will be waiting for her, andhis name is Frost."The old man stared, opened his mouth, and stopped eating. The littlemaid, who had heard the last words, began to cry,"Now, what are you whimpering about?" screamed the old woman. "Frostis a rich bridegroom and a handsome one. See how much he owns. All thepines and firs are his, and the birch trees. Any one would envy hispossessions, and he himself is a very bogatir, a man of strengthand power."The old man trembled, and said nothing in reply. And Martha went oncrying quietly, though she tried to stop her tears. The old manpacked up what was left of the black bread, told Martha to put on hersheepskin coat, set her in the sledge and climbed in, and drove offalong the white, frozen road.The road was long and the country open, and the wind grew colder andcolder, while the frozen snow blew up from under the hoofs of the mareand spattered the sledge with white patches. The tale is soon told,but it takes time to happen, and the sledge was white all over longbefore they turned off into the forest.They came in the end deep into the forest, and left the road, and overthe deep snow through the trees to the great fir. There the old manstopped, told his daughter to get out of the sledge, set her littlebox under the fir, and said, "Wait here for your bridegroom, and whenhe comes be sure to receive him with kind words." Then he turned themare round and drove home, with the tears running from his eyes andfreezing on his cheeks before they had had time to reach his beard.The little maid sat and trembled. Her sheepskin coat was worn through,and in her blue bridal dress she sat, while fits of shivering shookher whole body. She wanted to run away. but she had not strength tomove, or even to keep her little white teeth from chattering betweenher frozen lips.Suddenly, not far away, she heard Frost crackling among the fir trees,just as he is crackling now. He was leaping from tree to tree,crackling as he came.He leapt at last into the great fir tree, under which the little maidwas sitting. He crackled in the top of the tree, and then called. downout of the topmost branches, "Are you warm, little maid?""Warm, warm, little Father Frost."Frost laughed, and came a little lower in the tree and crackled andcrackled louder than before. Then he asked, "Are you still warm, little maid? Are you warm, little red cheeks?"The little maid could hardly speak. She was nearly dead, but sheanswered, "Warm, dear Frost. warm, little father."Frost climbed lower in the tree, and crackled louder than ever, andasked, "Are you still warm, little maid? Are you warm, little red cheeks?Are you warm, little paws?"The little maid was benumbed all over, but she whispered so that Frostcould just hear her, "Warm, little pigeon, warm, dear Frost,"And Frost was sorry for her, leapt down with a tremendous crackle anda scattering of frozen snow, wrapped the little maid up in rich furs,and covered her with warm blankets.In the morning the old woman said to her husband, "Drive off now tothe forest, and wake the young couple."The old man wept when he thought of his little daughter, for he wassure that he would find her dead. He harnessed the mare, and drove offthrough the snow. He came to the tree, and heard his little daughtersinging merrily, while Frost crackled and laughed. There she was,alive and warm, with a good fur cloak about her shoulders, a richveil, costly blankets round her feet, and a box full of splendidpresents.The old man did not say a word. He was too surprised. He just sat inthe sledge staring, while the little maid lifted her box and the boxof presents, set them in the sledge, climbed in, and sat down besidehim.They came home, and the little maid, Martha, fell at the feet of herstepmother. The old woman nearly went off her head with rage when shesaw her alive, with her fur cloak and rich veil, and the box ofsplendid presents fit for the daughter of a prince."Ah, you slut," she cried, "you won't get round me like that!"And she would not say another word to the little maid, but went aboutall day long biting her nails and thinking what to do.At night she said to the old man, "You must take my daughters, too, to that bridegroom in the forest. Hewill give them better gifts than these."Things take time to happen, but the tale is quickly told. Early nextmorning the old woman woke her daughters, fed them with good food,dressed them like brides, hustled the old man, made him put clean hayin the sledge and warm blankets, and sent them off to the forest.The old man did as he was bid drove to the big fir tree, set theboxes under the tree, lifted out the stepdaughters and set them on theboxes side by side, and drove back home.They were warmly dressed, these two, and well fed, and at first, asthey sat there, they did not think about the cold."I can't think what put it into mother's head to marry us both atonce," said the first, "and to send us here to be married. As if therewere not enough young men in the village. Who can tell what sort offellows we shall meet here!"Then they began to quarrel."Well," says one of them, "I'm beginning to get the cold shivers. Ifour fated ones do not come soon, we shall perish of cold.""It's a flat lie to say that bridegrooms get ready early. It's alreadydinner time.""What if only one comes?""You'll have to come another time.""You think he'll look at you?""Well, he won't take you, anyhow.""Of course he'll take me.""Take you first! It's enough to make any one laugh!"They began to fight and scratch each other, so that their cloaks fellopen and the cold entered their bosoms.(: There she was, a good fur cloak about her shoulders andcostly blankets Round her feet.)Frost, crackling among the trees, laughing to himself, froze the handsof the two quarrelling girls, and they hid their hands in the sleevesof their fur coats and shivered, and went on scolding and jeering ateach other."Oh, you ugly mug, dirty nose! What sort of a housekeeper will youmake?""And what about you, boasting one? You know nothing but how to gadabout and lick your own face. We'll soon see which of us he'll take."And the two girls went on wrangling and wrangling till they began tofreeze in good earnest.Suddenly they cried out together, "Devil take these bridegrooms for being so long in coming! You haveturned blue all over."And together they replied, shivering, "No bluer than yourself, tooth chatterer."And Frost, not so far away, crackled and laughed, and leapt from firtree to fir tree, crackling as he came.The girls heard that some one was coming through the forest."Listen! there's some one coming. Yes, and with bells on his sledge!""Shut up, you slut! I can't hear, and the frost is taking the skin offme."They began blowing on their fingers.And Frost came nearer and nearer, crackling, laughing, talking tohimself, just as he is doing to day. Nearer and nearer he came,leaping from tree top to tree top, till at last he leapt into thegreat fir under which the two girls were sitting and quarrelling.He leant down, looking through the branches, and asked, "Are you warm, maidens? Are you warm, little red cheeks? Are you warm,little pigeons?""Ugh, Frost, the cold is hurting us. We are frozen. We are waiting forour bridegrooms, but the cursed fellows have not turned up."Frost came a little lower in the tree, and crackled louder andswifter."Are you warm, maidens? Are you warm, my little red cheeks?""Go to the devil!" they cried out. "Are you blind? Our hands and feetare frozen!"Frost came still lower in the branches, and cracked and crackledlouder than ever."Are you warm, maidens?" he asked."Into the pit with you, with all the fiends," the girls screamed athim, "you ugly, wretched fellow!"... And as they were cursing at himtheir bad words died on their lips, for the two girls, the crosschildren of the cruel stepmother, were frozen stiff where they sat.Frost hung from the lowest branches of the tree, swaying and cracklingwhile he looked at the anger frozen on their faces. Then he climbedswiftly up again, and crackling and cracking, chuckling to himself, hewent off, leaping from fir tree to fir tree, this way and that throughthe white, frozen forest.In the morning the old woman says to her husband, "Now then, old man, harness the mare to the sledge, and put new hay inthe sledge to be warm for my little ones, and lay fresh rushes on thehay to be soft for them. and take warm rugs with you, for maybe theywill be cold, even in their furs. And look sharp about it, and don'tkeep them waiting. The frost is hard this morning, and it was harderin the night."The old man had not time to eat even a mouthful of black bread beforeshe had driven him out into the snow. He put hay and rushes and softblankets in the sledge, and harnessed the mare, and went off to theforest. He came to the great fir, and found the two girls sittingunder it dead, with their anger still to be seen on their frozen, uglyfaces.He picked them up, first one and then the other, and put them in therushes and the warm hay, covered them with the blankets, and drovehome.The old woman saw him coming, far away, over the shining snow. She ranto meet him, and shouted out, "Where are the little ones?""In the sledge."She snatched off the blankets and pulled aside the rushes, and foundthe bodies of her two cross daughters.Instantly she flew at the old man in a storm of rage. "What have youdone to my children, my little red cherries, my little pigeons? I willkill you with the oven fork! I will break your head with the poker!"The old man listened till she was out of breath and could not sayanother word. That, my dears, is the only wise thing to do when awoman is in a scolding rage. And as soon as she had no breath leftwith which to answer him, he said, "My little daughter got riches for soft words, but yours were alwaysrough of the tongue. And it's not my fault, anyhow, for you yourselfsent them into the forest."Well, at last the old woman got her breath again, and scolded awaytill she was tired out. But in the end she made her peace with the oldman, and they lived together as quietly as could be expected.As for Martha, Fedor Ivanovitch sought her in marriage, as he hadmeant to do all along yes, and married her. and pretty she looked inthe furs that Frost had given her. I was at the feast, and drank beerand mead with the rest. And she had the prettiest children that everwere seen yes, and the best behaved. For if ever they thought ofbeing naughty, the old grandfather told them the story of cracklingFrost, and how kind words won kindness, and cross words coldtreatment. And now, listen to Frost. Hear how he crackles away! Andmind, if ever he asks you if you are warm, be as polite to him as youcan. And to do that, the best way is to be good always, like littleMartha. Then it comes easy.The children listened, and laughed quietly, because they knew theywere good. Away in the forest they heard Frost, and thought of himcrackling and leaping from one tree to another. And just then theycame home. It was dusk, for dusk comes early in winter, and a littleway through the trees before them they saw the lamp of their hutglittering on the snow. The big dog barked and ran forward, and thechildren with him. The soup was warm on the stove, and in a fewminutes they were sitting at the table, Vanya, Maroosia, and oldPeter, blowing at their steaming spoons.