aidThe man with the pretended treasure, Old Sultan, and the would beBremen musicians ensured their well being in old age through blunttrickery. Another group of stories brings justice to helpless oldsters byawakening a sense of enlightened self interest in the younger generation.The story of "Half a Blanket" is typical:A man had a father who had grown too old to do anything buteat and smoke, so the man decided to send him away with nothing but ablanket. "Just give him half a blanket," said the man's son from hiscradle, "then I'll have half to give you when you grow old and I send youaway." Upon hearing this, the man quickly reconsidered and allowed his oldfather to remain after all.Type 980. Retold from Glassie, Irish Folktales, no.24.A variation on this story, a Hispanic version from the AmericanSouthwest, carries the same message, adding the warning between the linesabout giving a woman unbridled authority in household matters. The talestarts with the explanation that "in the old days it was not unusual tofind several generations living together in one home," then continues:A woman disliked her old father in law who lived with herfamily, and she insisted he be removed to a small room outside the house.One winter day the old man, who was suffering from hunger and cold, askedhis grandson to bring him a blanket. The boy found a rug and asked hisfather to cut it in half for the grandfather. "Take the whole rug," thefather said. "No," replied the boy. "I must save half for you for when youare as old as grandfather." The man quickly restored his old father to awarm room in the house, and from that time on he took care of his needsand visited him every day.Retold from "The Boy and His Grandfather," Maestas and Anaya,Cuentos: Tales from the Hispanic Southwest , pp. 115 117. Type980.The story of the grandfather who is denied his customary place at thefamily table contains the same lesson of enlightened self interest:An old man spilled his soup and let food dribble from hismouth, so his son made him sit behind the stove and eat from a woodenbowl. One day the man saw his own son, a boy of four, carving a piece ofwood. "This is a bowl for you to eat from when you are old," he explained.He immediately restored the old grandfather to his former place at thetable.Source: Retold from The OldGrandfather and His Grandson(type 980, Grimm, no. 78).For additional tales of this type see Old Grandfathers and Their Grandsons .