There was once a king of England whose daughter was very famous. She wasthe most beautiful princess ever seen or heard of. But she had one greatfault   namely, that she was haughty and proud. Of course she had manysuitors, but all were refused, and as she possessed a sharp tongue, shemoreover scorned them, giving nicknames to everyone who was bold enough towoo her.At that time there was a young prince in Denmark. The fame of her beautyhad reached him, and he sent word, asking for her hand in marriage. Theprincess answered, however, that she would rather earn her bread byspinning all her life than marry such a poor and miserable prince. Themessengers were obliged to return with this unfavorable response.The young prince had determined, however, that he would win her. Hedispatched fresh messengers with letters, and sent her a gift consistingof six beautiful horses, white as milk, with pink muzzles, gold shoes, andscarlet rugs. Such horses had never been seen in England before, hence theking put in a good word for the Danish prince: He who could send such agift of betrothal must by all means be considered her equal.But the beautiful princess ordered the grooms to cut off the manes andtails of the six steeds, to soil them with dirt, and turn them over to themessengers, whom she instructed to tell the prince that rather than bemarried to him would she sit in the street and sell earthenware.When the messengers returned, relating all that the princess had said anddone, the Danish king became so incensed that he wanted to put to sea withall his ships and revenge this insult. His son asked him, however, todesist from any such action. he wished to attempt once more, by fairmeans. If he were unsuccessful, he would himself know how to take revenge.To this his father assented.The prince now built a ship, so beautiful and costly that its like hadnever been. The gunwale was artistically carved with all sorts of animals.deer, dragons, and lions were seen jumping about, and the stem and sternwere richly gilded. The masts were mounted with gold, the sails made ofsilk, every second canvas being red, and the remainder white. This shipwas manned with the handsomest lads in the country, and the prince gavethem a letter to the king of England and his proud daughter, the princess,asking her to accept him, and receive the ship as his gift of betrothment.The gorgeous ship rapidly crossed the sea and stopped immediately outsideof the royal palace. It commanded general attention, no one having seensuch a magnificent vessel before. The couriers landed and delivered theirmessage. Now the king used his best efforts to persuade his daughter. Asuitor so wealthy and munificent, so true and devoted as this prince,certainly deserved a favorable answer.The princess graciously listened to his entreaties, feigning an intentionto think the matter over until the next day. But at night she gave ordersto sink the ship, and in the morning she told the couriers to return asbest they could. that she would rather beg her food at the doors than calltheir poor fellow of a Danish prince her husband.The couriers returned to Denmark with this disdainful answer, and with thetidings of the fate of the king's ship, which was now, with its gildedmasts and its silken sails, at the bottom of the sea. Upon hearing this,the king at once determined to man his fleet and take a bloody revenge.The prince dissuaded him, however, vowing solemnly that he would make thehaughty princess repent the disdain with which she had treated him.Upon this he left Denmark quite alone, and reached England, no one knowinghim. Disguised, as he was, in an old hat, dingy clothes, and wooden shoes,he arrived at the palace towards evening and asked the herdsman for a biteof bread and a couch. He obtained both, and during the night kept companywith the cows in the stable. The next morning the beggar   Greyfoot, sohe called himself   sought and obtained permission to help in driving thecattle to their watering place. The latter happened to be situated exactlyoutside of the windows occupied by the princess. Greyfoot now opened abundle which he had brought with him, and produced a golden spindle whichhe proceeded to use in driving forth the cows.The princess, who was standing at one of the windows, saw the spindle, andtaking at once a great fancy to it, she sent some one down to inquirewhether the beggar were willing to sell it. Greyfoot answered that he didnot care to sell it for money. the price he asked was permission to sleepoutside of her door the following night."No," said the princess. she could not think of such a price."Very well," answered Greyfoot. "that settles the matter, and I keep myspindle."The princess had taken it into her head, however, that she must possessthe beggar's treasure, but as she did not like any one to know that such apoor looking man was admitted to the palace, she sent a secret message byone of her maids, telling him to come late at night, and to be gone earlyin the morning. This he did.When the princess looked out of the window the next morning, she noticedGreyfoot chasing the cows with a golden reel, and at once sent one of hermaids down to inquire whether it could be bought."Yes," said Greyfoot, "and the price is the same as yesterday."When the princess heard this she was not a little astonished by theaudacity of the beggar, but as the treasure could be obtained in no otherway, she assented, and everything passed as on the previous night.The third morning Greyfoot drove the cattle to the watering place, asusual, but this time he was using a weaver's shuttle of pure gold.She sent for him, and when he appeared in her presence she said, "Now,Greyfoot, how much do you ask for this treasure of yours? Will youtake a hundred dollars for it?""No," answered Greyfoot, "it cannot be bought for money. If you willpermit me to sleep inside the door of your room tonight, you may have it.""I think you are mad," said the princess. "No, I cannot hear of any suchprice. But I am willing to pay you two hundred dollars.""No," said Greyfoot again. "it must be as I say. If you want the shuttle,you must pay the price which I ask. Otherwise, I will keep the treasuremyself."The princess looked at her maids, and they looked back at her, and alllooked at the magnificent shuttle. She must possess it, whisperedthe maids. They would sit in a circle around her, keeping guard the wholenight.Finally the princess told Greyfoot that he might come late at night. theywould let him in. He must be careful, however, and tell no one, since theywere all running a great risk. When it grew late, and the princess wasabout to fall asleep, the maids were all sitting around her, each oneholding a lighted candle in her hands.Greyfoot entered, and quietly stretched himself on a rug near the door.But as the maids were not accustomed to much waking, one by one theybecame drowsy, and very soon everyone in the room was soundly asleep. Asthe ladies had rested little during the two previous nights, it was nowonder that the sun did not wake them very early the next morning.The king, who was accustomed to see his daughter at the breakfast table,became alarmed when she did not appear as usual, and hastened to herrooms. Imagine his surprise when he found, outside of her door an old hatand a pair of well worn wooden shoes. Opening the door quietly, he stoleinto the room. There the princess was, fast asleep, with all her maids.and so was Greyfoot, on the rug inside the door.Usually the king was a very amicable and quiet man, but when thisspectacle met his eyes he became angry. He controlled himself, however,and called his daughter's name aloud. She awoke, and so did the maids, whoat once escaped in all directions.But the king turned to his daughter and said, "I now see what kind ofcompany you prefer, and although it is in my power to let this fellow hangand have you buried alive, I will allow you to keep each other. Theminister shall unite you in marriage, whereupon you will both be sentaway. I will never bear the sight of you again."The king left them, and shortly afterwards the minister appeared with twowitnesses. The haughty princess was married to Greyfoot, the beggar. Thenthe couple were at liberty to go whither they desired.When they passed the barn door Greyfoot turned to the princess, saying,"We cannot walk on the highroad in this style. you must change yourclothes before we depart!"So they paid a visit to the herdsman's wife, who gave the princess   nowGreyfoot's wife   a gown of linsey woolsey, a woolen jacket, a cape, anda pair of heavy shoes."That fits better," said Greyfoot, and they walked away.At first they walked each on his own side of the road, without speaking.but in a little while the princess raised her eyes to look at the man whowas now her rightful husband. To her astonishment she observed that he wasneither old nor ugly, but really a handsome young man, in spite of his oldand dingy clothes.Being not accustomed to walk very far, especially with such heavyfootwear, the princess soon felt exhausted, and said, "Dear Greyfoot, donot walk so fast!""No," he returned, "as I have now been burdened with you, I suppose Icannot leave you on the open road."So he entered the next house and hired an old carriage, the bottom ofwhich was covered with straw. They now drove on, until at length theyarrived at a seaport. Greyfoot immediately sought and obtained passage forhimself and his wife, as servants, and the princess felt much relievedwhen at last they were out of her father's domains, although she had noidea of their destination.The voyage ended in Denmark, and when they had safely landed, Greyfootproceeded to rent a small hut in the neighborhood of the royal palace. Itconsisted of only one little room with a stone floor and an openfireplace, where she must prepare their frugal meals. In a little whileGreyfoot went out, and returned with an old spinning wheel and a largebundle of tow, of the meanest quality."While you work with this," he said, " I must try to find some occupation,as best I can. Neither of us can afford to be idle."Thus time passed slowly and quietly. Greyfoot had secured work at thepalace as a woodcutter, and returned every evening with a loaf of breadand a few pennies. His wife was spinning until her fingertips werescorched, and her knees shaking under her.One evening Greyfoot brought home a wheelbarrow filled with earthenware.This he had bought on credit, he said, and she was in duty bound to go totown the next day and sell the things. She of course made no objections.The next day Greyfoot went to his work, as usual, and his wife set out forthe town with her earthenware. But when she had just managed to sell a fewof them, a troop of stately knights came galloping down the street. One ofthe horses became wild and rushed in among her articles, which went into athousand pieces under the heavy hoofs which trampled upon them. The riderspursued their way. but the poor princess returned to the hut, and, sittingdown, wept bitterly.In the evening, when Greyfoot returned, she told him of her misfortune."Now we are utterly unfortunate," said he, "for I have no money with whichto pay for these articles. You will now have to sew a wallet, go from doorto door, and beg for victuals and pennies, until our debts have beenpaid."The princess did as he bid her, and was glad that her husband did notscold her for her ill fortune. She begged at everyone's door, bringinghome, at length, several pieces of bread and some pennies."That will not bring us very far," said Greyfoot, when the princess haddisplayed the contents of the wallet. "I have now found a good place foryou at the palace. They are preparing for a wedding, and tomorrow you areto lend a hand in the kitchen. Do your best and make yourself useful.maybe they will keep you and pay you good wages. Tomorrow you will obtainyour meals and twenty pennies."The next morning, before Greyfoot's wife went away, her husband said, "Today I must stay at home. I have felt an illness coming upon me, so Iwill rest and try to get better."She burst into tears, and told him that when he was ill she could notthink of leaving him. When he answered, however, that she was expected,and necessarily must go, she kissed him good bye, hoping that he wouldsoon feel better, and promising to return as speedily as possible."The haughty princess" spent the whole day among the pots and pans in theroyal kitchen. When she returned to the hut, Greyfoot told her that hefelt better, and further related how an order had been issued announcingthat the Prince of Denmark was to be married to a Russian princess. Hercostly bridal gown had arrived, but the princess herself, having beendetained by wind and waves, was unable to arrive in due time for theceremony, and on the following day every girl and woman was to presentherself at the palace and be measured. She who filled the measure would beselected as the bride's deputy. "And you," concluded Greyfoot, "you mustput in an appearance. If you are fortunate, your wages may be sufficientfor paying our debts."In the morning Greyfoot declared that he felt worse than on the daybefore, but would not keep her from going. She hesitated, but as heinsisted, she threw her arms around him, kissed him, and left.The royal measurer was busy among the many women assembled in thecourtyard, and it seemed impossible to find anyone who was the rightmeasure. But when at length he reached Greyfoot's wife, he declared thatshe was the very person they wanted. Now she was taken into the palace,and attired in the gorgeous gown, the bridal veil, and a pair of exquisiteslippers. When finally the crown was placed on her head, everyone declaredthat the real princess could hardly be prettier. In a little whilea beautiful carriage drawn by six milk white horses was seen at the door,and Greyfoot's wife was asked to enter. The prince was already seated inthe carriage. she had never seen him, but remembered having heard of himin past days.They drove along the road until they came to Greyfoot's hut. Seeingalready at a distance that it was afire, the poor woman in the carriageuttered a piercing shriek, and cried, "My husband! save him, for heaven'ssake! He was ill when I left him, and may not have escaped."The prince now spoke to her for the first time, and said, "If that uglywoodcutter is your husband, you had better leave him. he is no husband foryou."But she answered, "He is my husband, and was always good and kind to me.How could I leave him? Even if you offered me the place which I am nowoccupying for your real bride, I would refuse it, and gladly return to thehut where I have lived the happiest part of my life!"The prince smilingly answered, "You are my real bride, and keptyour word when you said that rather than marry me would you earn yourbread by spinning, or by selling earthenware, or beg for it at the doors."Now she recognized him, and throwing her arms around him, she said thather sufferings had been of great benefit to her, and that she would nowstay with him forever.Thus "the haughty princess of England" became queen of Denmark. Thishappened so long ago, however, that hardly any one remembers having seenher. But the story is true, nevertheless.