There was once a boy in the County Mayo. Guleesh was his name. Therewas the finest rath a little way off from the gable of the house, andhe was often in the habit of seating himself on the fine grass bankthat was running round it. One night he stood, half leaning against thegable of the house, and looking up into the sky, and watching thebeautiful white moon over his head. After he had been standing that wayfor a couple of hours, he said to himself: "My bitter grief that I amnot gone away out of this place altogether. I'd sooner be any place inthe world than here. Och, it's well for you, white moon," says he,"that's turning round, turning round, as you please yourself, and noman can put you back. I wish I was the same as you."Hardly was the word out of his mouth when he heard a great noise cominglike the sound of many people running together, and talking, andlaughing, and making sport, and the sound went by him like a whirl ofwind, and he was listening to it going into the rath. "Musha, by mysoul," says he, "but ye're merry enough, and I'll follow ye."What was in it but the fairy host, though he did not know at first thatit was they who were in it, but he followed them into the rath. It'sthere he heard the _fulparnee_, and the _folpornee_, the_rap lay hoota_, and the _roolya boolya_, that they had there, andevery man of them crying out as loud as he could: "My horse, andbridle, and saddle! My horse, and bridle, and saddle!""By my hand," said Guleesh, "my boy, that's not bad. I'll imitate ye,"and he cried out as well as they: "My horse, and bridle, and saddle! Myhorse, and bridle, and saddle!" And on the moment there was a finehorse with a bridle of gold, and a saddle of silver, standing beforehim. He leaped up on it, and the moment he was on its back he sawclearly that the rath was full of horses, and of little people goingriding on them.Said a man of them to him: "Are you coming with us to night, Guleesh?""I am surely," said Guleesh."If you are, come along," said the little man, and out they went alltogether, riding like the wind, faster than the fastest horse ever yousaw a hunting, and faster than the fox and the hounds at his tail.The cold winter's wind that was before them, they overtook her, and thecold winter's wind that was behind them, she did not overtake them. Andstop nor stay of that full race, did they make none, until they came tothe brink of the sea.Then every one of them said: "Hie over cap! Hie over cap!" and thatmoment they were up in the air, and before Guleesh had time to rememberwhere he was, they were down on dry land again, and were going like thewind.At last they stood still, and a man of them said to Guleesh: "Guleesh,do you know where you are now?""Not a know," says Guleesh."You're in France, Guleesh," said he. "The daughter of the king ofFrance is to be married to night, the handsomest woman that the sunever saw, and we must do our best to bring her with us. if we're onlyable to carry her off. and you must come with us that we may be able toput the young girl up behind you on the horse, when we'll be bringingher away, for it's not lawful for us to put her sitting behindourselves. But you're flesh and blood, and she can take a good grip ofyou, so that she won't fall off the horse. Are you satisfied, Guleesh,and will you do what we're telling you?""Why shouldn't I be satisfied?" said Guleesh. "I'm satisfied, surely,and anything that ye will tell me to do I'll do it without doubt."They got off their horses there, and a man of them said a word thatGuleesh did not understand, and on the moment they were lifted up, andGuleesh found himself and his companions in the palace. There was agreat feast going on there, and there was not a nobleman or a gentlemanin the kingdom but was gathered there, dressed in silk and satin, andgold and silver, and the night was as bright as the day with all thelamps and candles that were lit, and Guleesh had to shut his two eyesat the brightness. When he opened them again and looked from him, hethought he never saw anything as fine as all he saw there. There were ahundred tables spread out, and their full of meat and drink on eachtable of them, flesh meat, and cakes and sweetmeats, and wine and ale,and every drink that ever a man saw. The musicians were at the two endsof the hall, and they were playing the sweetest music that ever a man'sear heard, and there were young women and fine youths in the middle ofthe hall, dancing and turning, and going round so quickly and solightly, that it put a _soorawn_ in Guleesh's head to be looking atthem. There were more there playing tricks, and more making fun andlaughing, for such a feast as there was that day had not been in Francefor twenty years, because the old king had no children alive but onlythe one daughter, and she was to be married to the son of another kingthat night. Three days the feast was going on, and the third night shewas to be married, and that was the night that Guleesh and thesheehogues came, hoping, if they could, to carry off with them theking's young daughter.Guleesh and his companions were standing together at the head of thehall, where there was a fine altar dressed up, and two bishops behindit waiting to marry the girl, as soon as the right time should come.Now nobody could see the sheehogues, for they said a word as they camein, that made them all invisible, as if they had not been in it at all."Tell me which of them is the king's daughter," said Guleesh, when hewas becoming a little used to the noise and the light."Don't you see her there away from you?" said the little man that hewas talking to.Guleesh looked where the little man was pointing with his finger, andthere he saw the loveliest woman that was, he thought, upon the ridgeof the world. The rose and the lily were fighting together in her face,and one could not tell which of them got the victory. Her arms andhands were like the lime, her mouth as red as a strawberry when it isripe, her foot was as small and as light as another one's hand, herform was smooth and slender, and her hair was falling down from herhead in buckles of gold. Her garments and dress were woven with goldand silver, and the bright stone that was in the ring on her hand wasas shining as the sun.Guleesh was nearly blinded with all the loveliness and beauty that wasin her. but when he looked again, he saw that she was crying, and thatthere was the trace of tears in her eyes. "It can't be," said Guleesh,"that there's grief on her, when everybody round her is so full ofsport and merriment.""Musha, then, she is grieved," said the little man. "for it's againsther own will she's marrying, and she has no love for the husband she isto marry. The king was going to give her to him three years ago, whenshe was only fifteen, but she said she was too young, and requested himto leave her as she was yet. The king gave her a year's grace, and whenthat year was up he gave her another year's grace, and then another.but a week or a day he would not give her longer, and she is eighteenyears old to night, and it's time for her to marry. but, indeed," sayshe, and he crooked his mouth in an ugly way "indeed, it's no king'sson she'll marry, if I can help it."Guleesh pitied the handsome young lady greatly when he heard that, andhe was heart broken to think that it would be necessary for her tomarry a man she did not like, or, what was worse, to take a nastysheehogue for a husband. However, he did not say a word, though hecould not help giving many a curse to the ill luck that was laid outfor himself, to be helping the people that were to snatch her away fromher home and from her father.He began thinking, then, what it was he ought to do to save her, but hecould think of nothing. "Oh! if I could only give her some help andrelief," said he, "I wouldn't care whether I were alive or dead. but Isee nothing that I can do for her."He was looking on when the king's son came up to her and asked her fora kiss, but she turned her head away from him. Guleesh had double pityfor her then, when he saw the lad taking her by the soft white hand,and drawing her out to dance. They went round in the dance near whereGuleesh was, and he could plainly see that there were tears in her eyes.When the dancing was over, the old king, her father, and her mother thequeen, came up and said that this was the right time to marry her, thatthe bishop was ready, and it was time to put the wedding ring on herand give her to her husband.The king took the youth by the hand, and the queen took her daughter,and they went up together to the altar, with the lords and great peoplefollowing them.When they came near the altar, and were no more than about four yardsfrom it, the little sheehogue stretched out his foot before the girl,and she fell. Before she was able to rise again he threw something thatwas in his hand upon her, said a couple of words, and upon the momentthe maiden was gone from amongst them. Nobody could see her, for thatword made her invisible. The little man_een_ seized her and raised herup behind Guleesh, and the king nor no one else saw them, but out withthem through the hall till they came to the door.Oro! dear Mary! it's there the pity was, and the trouble, and thecrying, and the wonder, and the searching, and the _rookawn_, when thatlady disappeared from their eyes, and without their seeing what did it.Out of the door of the palace they went, without being stopped orhindered, for nobody saw them, and, "My horse, my bridle, and saddle!"says every man of them. "My horse, my bridle, and saddle!" saysGuleesh. and on the moment the horse was standing ready caparisonedbefore him. "Now, jump up, Guleesh," said the little man, "and put thelady behind you, and we will be going. the morning is not far off fromus now."Guleesh raised her up on the horse's back, and leaped up himself beforeher, and, "Rise, horse," said he. and his horse, and the other horseswith him, went in a full race until they came to the sea."Hie over cap!" said every man of them."Hie over cap!" said Guleesh. and on the moment the horse rose underhim, and cut a leap in the clouds, and came down in Erin.They did not stop there, but went of a race to the place where wasGuleesh's house and the rath. And when they came as far as that,Guleesh turned and caught the young girl in his two arms, and leapedoff the horse."I call and cross you to myself, in the name of God!" said he. and onthe spot, before the word was out of his mouth, the horse fell down,and what was in it but the beam of a plough, of which they had made ahorse. and every other horse they had, it was that way they made it.Some of them were riding on an old besom, and some on a broken stick,and more on a bohalawn or a hemlock stalk.The good people called out together when they heard what Guleesh said:"Oh! Guleesh, you clown, you thief, that no good may happen you, whydid you play that trick on us?"But they had no power at all to carry off the girl, after Guleesh hadconsecrated her to himself."Oh! Guleesh, isn't that a nice turn you did us, and we so kind to you?What good have we now out of our journey to France. Never mind yet, youclown, but you'll pay us another time for this. Believe us, you'llrepent it.""He'll have no good to get out of the young girl," said the little manthat was talking to him in the palace before that, and as he said theword he moved over to her and struck her a slap on the side of thehead. "Now," says he, "she'll be without talk any more. now, Guleesh,what good will she be to you when she'll be dumb? It's time for us togo but you'll remember us, Guleesh!"When he said that he stretched out his two hands, and before Guleeshwas able to give an answer, he and the rest of them were gone into therath out of his sight, and he saw them no more.He turned to the young woman and said to her: "Thanks be to God,they're gone. Would you not sooner stay with me than with them?" Shegave him no answer. "There's trouble and grief on her yet," saidGuleesh in his own mind, and he spoke to her again: "I am afraid thatyou must spend this night in my father's house, lady, and if there isanything that I can do for you, tell me, and I'll be your servant."The beautiful girl remained silent, but there were tears in her eyes,and her face was white and red after each other."Lady," said Guleesh, "tell me what you would like me to do now. Inever belonged at all to that lot of sheehogues who carried you awaywith them. I am the son of an honest farmer, and I went with themwithout knowing it. If I'll be able to send you back to your fatherI'll do it, and I pray you make any use of me now that you may wish."He looked into her face, and he saw the mouth moving as if she wasgoing to speak, but there came no word from it."It cannot be," said Guleesh, "that you are dumb. Did I not hear youspeaking to the king's son in the palace to night? Or has that devilmade you really dumb, when he struck his nasty hand on your jaw?"The girl raised her white smooth hand, and laid her finger on hertongue, to show him that she had lost her voice and power of speech,and the tears ran out of her two eyes like streams, and Guleesh's owneyes were not dry, for as rough as he was on the outside he had a softheart, and could not stand the sight of the young girl, and she in thatunhappy plight.He began thinking with himself what he ought to do, and he did not liketo bring her home with himself to his father's house, for he knew wellthat they would not believe him, that he had been in France and broughtback with him the king of France's daughter, and he was afraid theymight make a mock of the young lady or insult her.As he was doubting what he ought to do, and hesitating, he chanced toremember the priest. "Glory be to God," said he, "I know now what I'lldo. I'll bring her to the priest's house, and he won't refuse me tokeep the lady and care for her." He turned to the lady again and toldher that he was loth to take her to his father's house, but that therewas an excellent priest very friendly to himself, who would take goodcare of her, if she wished to remain in his house. but that if therewas any other place she would rather go, he said he would bring her toit.She bent her head, to show him she was obliged, and gave him tounderstand that she was ready to follow him any place he was going. "Wewill go to the priest's house, then," said he. "he is under anobligation to me, and will do anything I ask him."They went together accordingly to the priest's house, and the sun wasjust rising when they came to the door. Guleesh beat it hard, and asearly as it was the priest was up, and opened the door himself. Hewondered when he saw Guleesh and the girl, for he was certain that itwas coming wanting to be married they were."Guleesh, Guleesh, isn't it the nice boy you are that you can't waittill ten o'clock or till twelve, but that you must be coming to me atthis hour, looking for marriage, you and your sweetheart? You ought toknow that I can't marry you at such a time, or, at all events, can'tmarry you lawfully. But ubbubboo!" said he, suddenly, as he lookedagain at the young girl, "in the name of God, who have you here? Who isshe, or how did you get her?""Father," said Guleesh, "you can marry me, or anybody else, if youwish. but it's not looking for marriage I came to you now, but to askyou, if you please, to give a lodging in your house to this young lady."The priest looked at him as though he had ten heads on him. but withoutputting any other question to him, he desired him to come in, himselfand the maiden, and when they came in, he shut the door, brought theminto the parlour, and put them sitting."Now, Guleesh," said he, "tell me truly who is this young lady, andwhether you're out of your senses really, or are only making a joke ofme.""I'm not telling a word of lie, nor making a joke of you," saidGuleesh. "but it was from the palace of the king of France I carriedoff this lady, and she is the daughter of the king of France."He began his story then, and told the whole to the priest, and thepriest was so much surprised that he could not help calling out attimes, or clapping his hands together.When Guleesh said from what he saw he thought the girl was notsatisfied with the marriage that was going to take place in the palacebefore he and the sheehogues broke it up, there came a red blush intothe girl's cheek, and he was more certain than ever that she had soonerbe as she was badly as she was than be the married wife of the manshe hated. When Guleesh said that he would be very thankful to thepriest if he would keep her in his own house, the kind man said hewould do that as long as Guleesh pleased, but that he did not know whatthey ought to do with her, because they had no means of sending herback to her father again.Guleesh answered that he was uneasy about the same thing, and that hesaw nothing to do but to keep quiet until they should find someopportunity of doing something better. They made it up then betweenthemselves that the priest should let on that it was his brother'sdaughter he had, who was come on a visit to him from another county,and that he should tell everybody that she was dumb, and do his best tokeep every one away from her. They told the young girl what it was theyintended to do, and she showed by her eyes that she was obliged to them.Guleesh went home then, and when his people asked him where he hadbeen, he said that he had been asleep at the foot of the ditch, and hadpassed the night there.There was great wonderment on the priest's neighbours at the girl whocame so suddenly to his house without any one knowing where she wasfrom, or what business she had there. Some of the people said thateverything was not as it ought to be, and others, that Guleesh was notlike the same man that was in it before, and that it was a great story,how he was drawing every day to the priest's house, and that the priesthad a wish and a respect for him, a thing they could not clear up atall.That was true for them, indeed, for it was seldom the day went by butGuleesh would go to the priest's house, and have a talk with him, andas often as he would come he used to hope to find the young lady wellagain, and with leave to speak. but, alas! she remained dumb andsilent, without relief or cure. Since she had no other means oftalking, she carried on a sort of conversation between herself andhimself, by moving her hand and fingers, winking her eyes, opening andshutting her mouth, laughing or smiling, and a thousand other signs, sothat it was not long until they understood each other very well.Guleesh was always thinking how he should send her back to her father.but there was no one to go with her, and he himself did not know whatroad to go, for he had never been out of his own country before thenight he brought her away with him. Nor had the priest any betterknowledge than he. but when Guleesh asked him, he wrote three or fourletters to the king of France, and gave them to buyers and sellers ofwares, who used to be going from place to place across the sea. butthey all went astray, and never a one came to the king's hand.This was the way they were for many months, and Guleesh was fallingdeeper and deeper in love with her every day, and it was plain tohimself and the priest that she liked him. The boy feared greatly atlast, lest the king should really hear where his daughter was, and takeher back from himself, and he besought the priest to write no more, butto leave the matter to God.So they passed the time for a year, until there came a day when Guleeshwas lying by himself, on the grass, on the last day of the last monthin autumn, and he was thinking over again in his own mind of everythingthat happened to him from the day that he went with the sheehoguesacross the sea. He remembered then, suddenly, that it was one Novembernight that he was standing at the gable of the house, when thewhirlwind came, and the sheehogues in it, and he said to himself: "Wehave November night again to day, and I'll stand in the same place Iwas last year, until I see if the good people come again. Perhaps Imight see or hear something that would be useful to me, and might bringback her talk again to Mary" that was the name himself and the priestcalled the king's daughter, for neither of them knew her right name. Hetold his intention to the priest, and the priest gave him his blessing.Guleesh accordingly went to the old rath when the night was darkening,and he stood with his bent elbow leaning on a grey old flag, waitingtill the middle of the night should come. The moon rose slowly. and itwas like a knob of fire behind him. and there was a white fog which wasraised up over the fields of grass and all damp places, through thecoolness of the night after a great heat in the day. The night was calmas is a lake when there is not a breath of wind to move a wave on it,and there was no sound to be heard but the _cronawn_ of the insectsthat would go by from time to time, or the hoarse sudden scream of thewild geese, as they passed from lake to lake, half a mile up in the airover his head. or the sharp whistle of the golden and green plover,rising and lying, lying and rising, as they do on a calm night. Therewere a thousand thousand bright stars shining over his head, and therewas a little frost out, which left the grass under his foot white andcrisp.He stood there for an hour, for two hours, for three hours, and thefrost increased greatly, so that he heard the breaking of the_traneens_ under his foot as often as he moved. He was thinking, in hisown mind, at last, that the sheehogues would not come that night, andthat it was as good for him to return back again, when he heard a soundfar away from him, coming towards him, and he recognised what it was atthe first moment. The sound increased, and at first it was like thebeating of waves on a stony shore, and then it was like the falling ofa great waterfall, and at last it was like a loud storm in the tops ofthe trees, and then the whirlwind burst into the rath of one rout, andthe sheehogues were in it.It all went by him so suddenly that he lost his breath with it, but hecame to himself on the spot, and put an ear on himself, listening towhat they would say.Scarcely had they gathered into the rath till they all began shouting,and screaming, and talking amongst themselves. and then each one ofthem cried out: "My horse, and bridle, and saddle! My horse, andbridle, and saddle!" and Guleesh took courage, and called out as loudlyas any of them: "My horse, and bridle, and saddle! My horse, andbridle, and saddle!" But before the word was well out of his mouth,another man cried out: "Ora! Guleesh, my boy, are you here with usagain? How are you getting on with your woman? There's no use in yourcalling for your horse to night. I'll go bail you won't play such atrick on us again. It was a good trick you played on us last year?""It was," said another man. "he won't do it again.""Isn't he a prime lad, the same lad! to take a woman with him thatnever said as much to him as, 'How do you do?' since this time lastyear!" says the third man."Perhaps be likes to be looking at her," said another voice."And if the _omadawn_ only knew that there's an herb growing up by hisown door, and if he were to boil it and give it to her, she'd be well,"said another voice."That's true for you.""He is an omadawn.""Don't bother your head with him. we'll be going.""We'll leave the _bodach_ as he is."And with that they rose up into the air, and out with them with one_roolya boolya_ the way they came. and they left poor Guleesh standingwhere they found him, and the two eyes going out of his head, lookingafter them and wondering.He did not stand long till he returned back, and he thinking in his ownmind on all he saw and heard, and wondering whether there was really anherb at his own door that would bring back the talk to the king'sdaughter. "It can't be," says he to himself, "that they would tell itto me, if there was any virtue in it. but perhaps the sheehogue didn'tobserve himself when he let the word slip out of his mouth. I'll searchwell as soon as the sun rises, whether there's any plant growing besidethe house except thistles and dockings."He went home, and as tired as he was he did not sleep a wink until thesun rose on the morrow. He got up then, and it was the first thing hedid to go out and search well through the grass round about the house,trying could he get any herb that he did not recognise. And, indeed, hewas not long searching till he observed a large strange herb that wasgrowing up just by the gable of the house.He went over to it, and observed it closely, and saw that there wereseven little branches coming out of the stalk, and seven leaves growingon every branch_een_ of them. and that there was a white sap in theleaves. "It's very wonderful," said he to himself, "that I nevernoticed this herb before. If there's any virtue in an herb at all, itought to be in such a strange one as this."He drew out his knife, cut the plant, and carried it into his ownhouse. stripped the leaves off it and cut up the stalk. and there camea thick, white juice out of it, as there comes out of the sow thistlewhen it is bruised, except that the juice was more like oil.He put it in a little pot and a little water in it, and laid it on thefire until the water was boiling, and then he took a cup, filled ithalf up with the juice, and put it to his own mouth. It came into hishead then that perhaps it was poison that was in it, and that the goodpeople were only tempting him that he might kill himself with thattrick, or put the girl to death without meaning it. He put down the cupagain, raised a couple of drops on the top of his finger, and put it tohis mouth. It was not bitter, and, indeed, had a sweet, agreeabletaste. He grew bolder then, and drank the full of a thimble of it, andthen as much again, and he never stopped till he had half the cupdrunk. He fell asleep after that, and did not wake till it was night,and there was great hunger and great thirst on him.He had to wait, then, till the day rose. but he determined, as soon ashe should wake in the morning, that he would go to the king's daughterand give her a drink of the juice of the herb.As soon as he got up in the morning, he went over to the priest's housewith the drink in his hand, and he never felt himself so bold andvaliant, and spirited and light, as he was that day, and he was quitecertain that it was the drink he drank which made him so hearty.When he came to the house, he found the priest and the young ladywithin, and they were wondering greatly why he had not visited them fortwo days.He told them all his news, and said that he was certain that there wasgreat power in that herb, and that it would do the lady no hurt, for hetried it himself and got good from it, and then he made her taste it,for he vowed and swore that there was no harm in it.Guleesh handed her the cup, and she drank half of it, and then fellback on her bed and a heavy sleep came on her, and she never woke outof that sleep till the day on the morrow.Guleesh and the priest sat up the entire night with her, waiting tillshe should awake, and they between hope and unhope, between expectationof saving her and fear of hurting her.She awoke at last when the sun had gone half its way through theheavens. She rubbed her eyes and looked like a person who did not knowwhere she was. She was like one astonished when she saw Guleesh and thepriest in the same room with her, and she sat up doing her best tocollect her thoughts.The two men were in great anxiety waiting to see would she speak, orwould she not speak, and when they remained silent for a couple ofminutes, the priest said to her: "Did you sleep well, Mary?"And she answered him: "I slept, thank you."No sooner did Guleesh hear her talking than he put a shout of joy outof him, and ran over to her and fell on his two knees, and said: "Athousand thanks to God, who has given you back the talk. lady of myheart, speak again to me."The lady answered him that she understood it was he who boiled thatdrink for her, and gave it to her. that she was obliged to him from herheart for all the kindness he showed her since the day she first cameto Ireland, and that he might be certain that she never would forget it.Guleesh was ready to die with satisfaction and delight. Then theybrought her food, and she ate with a good appetite, and was merry andjoyous, and never left off talking with the priest while she was eating.After that Guleesh went home to his house, and stretched himself on thebed and fell asleep again, for the force of the herb was not all spent,and he passed another day and a night sleeping. When he woke up he wentback to the priest's house, and found that the young lady was in thesame state, and that she was asleep almost since the time that he leftthe house.He went into her chamber with the priest, and they remained watchingbeside her till she awoke the second time, and she had her talk as wellas ever, and Guleesh was greatly rejoiced. The priest put food on thetable again, and they ate together, and Guleesh used after that to cometo the house from day to day, and the friendship that was between himand the king's daughter increased, because she had no one to speak toexcept Guleesh and the priest, and she liked Guleesh best.So they married one another, and that was the fine wedding they had,and if I were to be there then, I would not be here now. but I heard itfrom a birdeen that there was neither cark nor care, sickness norsorrow, mishap nor misfortune on them till the hour of their death, andmay the same be with me, and with us all!