Once upon a time there was a princess who was so haughty and proud thatno suitor was good enough for her. She made fun of them all, and sent themabout their business, one after the other. But in spite of this, newsuitors kept on coming to the palace, for she was a beauty, the wickedhussy!One day a prince came to woo her, and his name was Haaken Grizzlebeard.The first night he was there, the princess commanded the king's jester tocut off the ears of one of the prince's horses, and to slit the jaws ofthe other up to the ears. The next day when the prince went out for aride, the princess stood on the porch and watched him."Well!" she cried,"I never saw the like of this in all my life. thesharp north wind that blows here has taken the ears off one of yourhorses, while the other stood by gaping at what was going on until hisjaws split right up to his ears."With that she broke into a roar of laughter, ran in, slammed the door,and let him drive off.He returned home. but as he went, he thought to himself that he wouldpay her off one day. After a bit, he put on a great beard of moss, threw alarge fur cloak over his clothes, and dressed himself up like a beggar. Hewent to a goldsmith and bought a golden spinning wheel, and sat down withit under the princess's window and began to file away at his spinningwheel, and to turn it this way and that, for it wasn't quite in order, andbesides, it did not have a stand.So when the princess got up in the morning, she came to the window andopened it, and asked the beggar if he would sell his golden spinningwheel."No, it isn't for sale," said Haaken Grizzlebeard. "but if I may sleepoutside your bedroom door tonight, I'll give it you."The princess thought that that was a good bargain. there could be nodanger in letting him sleep outside her door.So she got the wheel and that night Haaken Grizzlebeard lay downoutside her bedroom. But as the night wore on he began to freeze."Huttetuttetuttetu! It is so cold. let me in," he cried."I think that you're out of your mind," said the princess."Oh, Huttetuttetuttetu! It is so bitter cold, please let me in," saidHaaken Grizzlebeard again."Be quiet! Hold your tongue!" said the princess. "If my father were toknow that there was a man in the house, I should be in serioustrouble.""Oh, Huttetuttetuttetu! I'm almost frozen to death. Just let me comeinside and lie on the floor," said Haaken Grizzlebeard.There was nothing she could do about it. She had to let him in, andwhen he was inside, he lay on the ground and fell sound asleep.Some time afterward, Haaken came again with the stand to the spinningwheel and sat down under the princess's window, and began to file at it,for it was not quite in order. When she heard him filing, she opened thewindow and began to talk to him, and to ask what he had."Oh, only the stand to that spinning wheel which your royal highnessbought. I thought that because you had the wheel you might like to havethe stand as well.""What do you want for it?" asked the princess. It was not for sale anymore than the wheel had been, but she might have it if she would let himsleep on the floor of her bedroom the next night.She agreed, but only if he would to be sure to lie still, and not toshiver and call out "huttetu," or any such stuff. Haaken Grizzlebeardpromised fair enough, but as the night wore on he began to shiver andshake, and to ask whether he might not come nearer, and lie on the flooralongside the princess's bed.She couldn't do anything about it. she had to let him, or the kingwould hear the noise he was making. So Haaken Grizzlebeard lay alongsidethe princess's bed, and fell sound asleep.It was a long while before Haaken Grizzlebeard came again, this timewith him a golden yarn reel, and he sat down and began to file away at itunder the princess's window. Then came the old story over again. When theprincess heard what was going on, she came to the window and asked him howhe was, and whether he would sell the golden yarn reel?"It is not to be had for money. but I'll give it to you for nothing, ifyou'll let me sleep in your bedroom tonight, with my head on yourbedstead."She agreed, but only if he would give his word to be quiet and make nonoise. He said he would do his best to be still. but as the night wore onhe again began to shiver and shake until his teeth chattered."Huttetuttetuttetu! It is so bitter cold! Do let me get into bed andwarm myself a little," said Haaken Grizzlebeard."Get into bed!" said the princess. "why, you must be out of yourmind.""Huttetuttetuttetu!" said Haaken. "do let me get into bed.Huttetuttetuttetu!""Hush! Hush! For God's sake, be quiet!" said the princess. "If fatherknows there is a man in here, I shall be in serious trouble. I'm surehe'll kill me on the spot.""Huttetuttetuttetu! Let me get into bed," said Haaken Grizzlebeard, whokept on shivering so that the whole room shook. Well, there was nothingshe could do about it. She had to let him get into bed. He slept soundlyand gently, but a little while later the princess gave birth to a child.The king grew so wild with rage that he very nearly made an end of bothmother and baby.Just after this happened, Haaken Grizzlebeard came tramping that wayonce more, as if by chance, and took his seat down in the kitchen, likeany other beggar.When the princess came out and saw him, she cried, "Ah, God have mercyon me, for the bad luck you have brought me. Father is ready to fly into arage. Let me go home with you.""You're too well bred to follow me," said Haaken, "for I have nothingbut a log hut to live in. and I don't know how I would ever feed you, forit's all I can do just to find food for myself.""I don't care how you get it, or whether you get it at all," she said."only let me be with you, for if I stay here any longer, my father willsurely kill me."So she got permission to go with the beggar, as she called him, andthey walked a long, long way, even though she was not a good walker. Whenshe left her father's land and entered into another, she asked whose itwas?"Oh! This is Haaken Grizzlebeard's, if you must know," he said."Indeed!" said the princess. "I could have married him if I had wantedto, and then I would not have had to walk about like a beggar's wife."They came to grand castles, and woods, and parks, and when she askedwhose they were, the beggar's answer was always the same, "Oh! They areHaaken Grizzlebeard's." The princess was very sad that she had not chosenthe man who had such broad lands. Last of all they came to a palace, wherehe said he was known, and where he thought he could get work for her, sothat they might have something to live on. He built a cabin at the edge ofthe woods for them to live in. Every day he went to the king's palace, ashe said, to chop wood and draw water for the cook, and when he came backhe brought a few scraps of food. but they did not go very far.One day, when he came home from the palace, he said, "Tomorrow I willstay at home and look after the baby, but you must get ready to go to thepalace, for the prince said you were to come and try your hand atbaking.""Bake!" said the princess. "I can't bake, for I never did such a thingin my life.""Well, you must go," said Haaken, "since the prince has said it. If youcan't bake, you can learn. you have only got to look how the rest bake.and as you leave, you must steal some bread for me.""I can't steal," said the princess."You can learn that too," said Haaken. "you know that we are very shortof food. But take care that the prince doesn't see you, for he has eyeseverywhere."When she was on her way, Haaken ran by a shortcut and reached thepalace long before her, and took off his rags and beard, and put on hisprincely robes.The princess took her turn in the bakehouse, and did as Haaken hadasked her, for she stole bread until her pockets were crammed full. Thatevening, when she was about to go home, the prince said, "We don't knowvery much about this old vagabond woman. I think we'd best see if she istaking anything away with her."He thrust his hand into all her pockets, and felt her all over, andwhen he found the bread, he became very angry, and raised a greatstir.She began to moan and cry, and said, "The beggar made me do it, and Icouldn't help it.""Well," said the prince at last, "it ought to have gone hard with you.but for the beggar's sake I will forgive you this time."When she was on her way home, he took off his robes, put on his skincloak, and his false beard, and reached the cabin before her. When shecame home, he was busy tending the baby."You made me go against my own conscience. Today was the first time Iever stole, and it will be the last." and with that she told him how ithad gone with her, and what the prince had said.A few days later, Haaken Grizzlebeard came home in the evening andsaid, "Tomorrow I will stay at home and tend the baby, for they are goingto kill a pig at the palace, and you must help them make sausages.""I make sausages!" said the princess. "I can't do any such thing. Ihave eaten sausages often enough, but I have never made one in mylife."But there was nothing that she could do about it. the prince had saidit, and she had to go. As for not knowing how, she only had to do what theothers did, and at the same time Haaken asked her to steal some sausagesfor him."No, I can't steal," she said. "you know how it went last time.""Well, you can learn to steal. Who knows? You may have better luck thistime," said Haaken Grizzlebeard.When she was on her way, Haaken ran by a shortcut, reached the palacelong before her, took off his skin cloak and false beard, and stood in thekitchen with his royal robes as she came in. So the princess stood by whenthe pig was killed. She made sausages with the others, and she did asHaaken had told her to, and stuffed her pockets full of sausages. Thatevening, when she was about to go home, the prince said, "This beggar'swife was long fingered last time. we had better see that she isn'tcarrying anything off."So he began to thrust his hands into her pockets, and when he found thesausages he was again very angry, and made a great to do, threatening tosend for the constable and have her thrown into jail."Oh, God bless your royal highness. do let me off! The beggar made medo it," she said, and cried bitterly."Well," said Haaken,"you ought to be punished for it. but for thebeggar's sake I forgive you."When she was gone, he changed his clothes again, ran by the shortcut,and when she reached the cabin, there he was before her. She told him thewhole story, and swore it was the last time he would get her to do such athing.Now a little later the man came home from the palace and said, "Ourprince is going to be married, but the bride is sick, so the tailor can'tmeasure her for her wedding gown. The prince wants you to go to the palaceand be measured instead of the bride. for he says that you are just thesame height and shape. But after you have been measured, don't just leave.You can stand about, and when the tailor cuts out the gown, you can pickup the largest scraps, and bring them home for a vest for me.""No, I can't steal," she said. "besides, you know how it went lasttime.""You can learn then," said Haaken, "and you may have better luck thistime."She thought it bad, but still she went and did as she was told. Shestood by while the tailor was cutting out the gown, and she swept up allthe biggest scraps, and stuffed them into her pockets. and when she was onher way out, the prince said, "We may as well see if this old girl has notbeen long fingered this time too."So he began to feel and search her pockets, and when he found thepieces he became very angry, and began to stamp and scold furiously, whileshe cried and said, "Please forgive me. the beggar made me do it, and Icouldn't help it.""Well, you ought to be punished for it," said Haaken. "but for thebeggar's sake I forgive you."So it went now just as it had gone before, and when she got back to thecabin, the beggar was there before her. "Oh, Heaven help me," she said."you will be the death of me by making me wicked. The prince was so angrythat he threatened me both with the constable and jail."One evening, some time later, Haaken came home to the cabin and said,"The prince wants you to go up to the palace and stand in for the bride,for the bride is still sick in bed. He won't put off the wedding, and hesays, that you are so like her, that no one could tell one from the other.so tomorrow you must get ready to go to the palace.""I think that you are out of your mind, both you and the prince," shesaid. "Do you think I look fit to stand in the bride's place? Look at me!Can any beggar's wench look worse than I?""Well, the prince said you were to go, and so you have to go," saidHaaken Grizzlebeard.There was nothing that she could do about it. She had to go. and whenshe reached the palace, they dressed her out so finely that no princessever looked so beautiful.The bridal procession went to church, where she stood in for the bride,and when they came back, there was dancing and merriment in the palace.But just as she was dancing with the prince, she saw a gleam of lightthrough the window, and behold, the cabin at the edge of the woods was allone bright flame."Oh! The beggar, and the baby, and the cabin," she screamed out, andwas just about to faint."Here is the beggar, and there is the baby, and so let the cabin burnaway," said Haaken Grizzlebeard.She recognized him again, and then the joy and celebration began forreal. Since that time, I have heard nothing more about them.