A long time ago, many hundreds of years ago, there lived a fishermanwith his wife. His name was Dudeldee. They were so poor that they did nothave a real house, but lived in a hut made of boards without any windows.They looked out through the knot holes. In spite all this, Dudeldee wassatisfied, but not his wife. She wished for this or that and constantlytormented her husband because he could not give it to her.Dudeldee usually said nothing, thinking only to himself, "If only Iwere rich," or "If only I could have everything I wished for."One evening he was standing with his wife before their front doorlooking around their neighborhood. There were a number of handsomefarmhouses nearby. Then his wife said to him, "If we only had a hut asgood as the worst of our neighbors' houses. We could have such a one, butyou are too lazy. You can't work the way other people work."Dudeldee asked, "What? Don't I work as hard as other people? Don't Istand there fishing the entire day?""No!" answered his wife. "You could get up earlier and catch as manyfish before daybreak as you now get during the whole day. But you are toolazy. You don't want to do anything." And thus she scolded him on andon.So the next morning he got up early and went out to the lake to fish.By the time he saw people going to their fields to work he still hadcaught nothing. Noon came, and the mowers sat in the shade and ate theirnoon meals, and still he had caught nothing. Sadly he sat down and pulledhis moldy bread from his pocket and ate it. Then he went back to fishing.The sun moved downward, and the mowers went home, the shepherds drovetheir herds into their enclosures, the cow herds returned home, and thefields grew quiet. But Dudeldee still stood there, and still he had noteven one little fish.It was almost dark when he thought about going home. He would throw outhis net just one more time and try to catch something. He threw it out,and as if were trying to lure the fish into it, he called out:"Little fish, little fish, in the sea!""What do you want, Hanns Dudeldee?"asked a little fish that had swum up, sticking his head a little abovethe water.Poor Hanns Dudeldee was startled to see the little fish, but hecollected himself and thought, "If all I have to do is to want something,you will not have to ask me again."He looked around to see what he might wish for. On the other side ofthe lake there stood a handsome palace from which he could hear thebeautiful music of horns resounding. At the same time he thought of hiswife's wish to have a better house, so he said, "I would like a countryhouse like that one over there. I would like such a palace instead of mylittle board hut.""Just go home," said the little fish. "Your board hut is now such apalace."More running than walking, Hanns Dudeldee returned home. Already atsome distance, he saw that at the place where his house formerly stoodthere was now a splendid palace with brightly illuminated rooms. Entering,he saw that everything was so splendid that he did not know how to behave.The entryway was paved with marble. The living room floor was of inlaidwood, and polished with wax. The walls were covered with wallpaper.Magnificent chandeliers hung in the high halls. In short, everything wasso beautiful that Hans Dudeldee did not dare to walk around inside. Hecould not believe that this was his property. He thought he had enteredthe wrong house and would have left, if his wife had not met him on thesteps. He had scarcely seen her when he asked her, "Now are you satisfiedwith the house?" and he told her what had happened."What?" she answered. "Do you think that what we have here is amiracle? I saw much better houses in the city when I was in service there.It is passable, but how could you be so stupid? You forgot the bestthings. Just look at our clothes against this nice house! See how theystand out! At the same time you should have wished for beautiful clothesfor me and for you. But you are too stupid and lazy. You don't even makeuse of the little bit of intelligence that you have." And thus shecontinued to scold and bicker until she fell asleep.The next morning at daybreak Hanns Dudeldee went back to the sameplace, once again threw out his net, and once again called out:"Little fish, little fish, in the sea!""What do you want, Hanns Dudeldee?"Thus replied the little fish once again, and Dudeldee did not have tothink long before saying that he wanted beautiful clothing for his wifeand for himself, clothing that was appropriate for their new house."You have it," said the little fish, and Dudeldee stood there wearing acloth jacket with gold braid, silk stockings and shoes, and an embroideredvest, everything in keeping with the fashion of the time.Returning home, he would have scarcely recognized his wife in her silkclothing, but she looked out the window and asked, "Hanns, is thatyou?""Yes," he answered. "Are you satisfied now?""We'll see!" she answered.Thus they lived peacefully for a time. But one day, when her husbandwanted to go out fishing again, she said, "Why do you need to go fishing?Give that up and instead wish for yourself a chest filled with gold.""Hmm, that is true!" thought Dudeldee, and he went out to the lake,once again threw out his net and called out:"Little fish, little fish, in the sea!""What do you want, Hanns Dudeldee?"asked the little fish once again."Oh, a chest filled with gold," he said."Just go home," said the little fishAnd when he arrived home, standing in his bedroom was a chest filledwith gold pieces.Thus they lived high and well. She bought herself a coach and horses,and a riding horse for her husband. They often drove into the cities, andthey engaged a cook and servants.The neighbors always called her the arrogant fishwife. This annoyed hergreatly, so she told her husband to make her the ruler over all theneighbors. Once again he went out with his net, threw it into the water,and called out:"Little fish, little fish, in the sea!""What do you want, Hanns Dudeldee?"asked the little fish."I would like to be a nobleman or a count and to rule over all myneighbors.""Just go home. It is so."When he arrived home the neighbors were paying homage to his wife. Shealready had had a few of the neighbor women locked up who previously hadcalled her the arrogant fishwife.Now they often drove to the capital city where the king resided,wanting to join company with other counts. But they did not know how toconduct themselves with the manners of nobility, and everyone ridiculedthem. Some countesses would refer to her only as Fish Countess and him asFish Count Dudeldee.So she again spoke to her husband, "Go out and have yourself made king.I do not want to be called Fish Countess any longer. I want to bequeen."However, Hanns Dudeldee advised her against this, saying, "Justremember how it was when we were poor, and we wished for a little hut asgood as the worst of our neighbors' houses. Now we have a surplus ofeverything. Let us call it enough."But his wife did not want to call it enough, and she said, "What? I amto put up with being called Fish Countess? I am to bear the city women'spride? No! They must know who I am. I shall show them! And yet you want tobe so simple as to accept all this?" And thus she scolded forth, until hepromised to make her queen.Consequently he went out to the sea, repeated once again his littleverse, and the little fish again appeared and again asked, "What do youwant, Count Dudeldee?"He presented the request, that he would like to be king. The littlefish said, "You are!"Returning home, he found that his palace had changed magnificently. Itwas now much larger. Marshals and ministers with a golden star and goldenkeys received him with deep bows. His head suddenly became very heavy. Hewanted to take off his hat, but behold! Instead of a hat he had a heavygolden crown on his head. And when he saw his wife, he hardly recognizedher, so much did her gown glisten with gold and jewels.When he asked her if she was now satisfied, she said, "Yes, until Ionce again come to know something better. I would be a fool if I could bebetter off, and did not do so."Thus they lived contentedly for a time, and Dudeldee's wife did notwish for anything further, for she had everything that she possibly couldwant. She had even taken revenge on the countesses who had called herCountess Fish. But finally she came to lack something. She read in thenewspaper about the luxury and the expenditures at other kings' courts,and heard that there were other kings and emperors who ruled over manymore people and over much more powerful kingdoms than did Dudeldee.Consequently she again approached him, and tormented him until he promisedher to become the most powerful king on earth.Once again he threw out his net, and called out:"Little fish, little fish, in the sea!""What do you want, King Dudeldee?"asked the little fish, and Dudeldee said, "Just make me the mostpowerful king or emperor on earth." And immediately that is what hewas.When he arrived home ambassadors and deputies from all the kingdoms andall the parts of the earth were there. Poor poets with poems to Atlasawaited him. Schoolmasters who needed better salaries were there withtheir petitions. Chamberlains, with their hats under their arms, walkedback and forth. Peasants engaged in lawsuits wanted an audience. Guardswalked up and down. A coach with ten horses, twenty cavaliers, and sixcouriers was standing there, ready to depart. In an adjacent courtyardthere were peacocks and guinea fowls. In short, everything was there thatwould please such a great emperor. There were even two court jesters whowere always near him.The new Emperor Dudeldee was of course angry that these twofoolish people were always following him about wherever he might go, andhe complained to his wife about them, for after all, he would rather be inthe company of reasonable people than of fools. But she told him that hedid not understand. It just had to be that way. All important gentlemenpreferred to be with fools. Now he was not going to be a fool himself andmake an exception.Finally he gave in, and was happy that his wife was satisfied, buttheir happiness did not last long. One day he came to her and found hervery sad."What is wrong?" he asked her."Oh," she said, "I am unhappy about the rainy weather. It has lastedfour days now, and I would like to have some sunshine. In fact, I wishthat I could do everything that God can do, so that I could have springand summer and fall and winter exactly when I wanted them."Thus she spoke to him, and he liked her idea as well. "Why," hethought, "then I could go out in the rain and come home in the sunshinethat my wife had made. I could even get rid of the fools." Thinking thisto himself, he immediately took his fishing net and slipped out a backentrance into the rain. He went to the sea, threw in his net, and againsaid, as before:"Little fish, little fish, in the sea!""What do you want, Emperor Dudeldee?"the little fish asked."Oh," he said, "only that my wife would like to be able to do whateverGod can do: make rain and sunshine, and have spring and summer and falland winter exactly when she wants them.""So! Is that all?" asked the little fish. "No, no, Emperor Dudeldee, Isee that nothing is good enough for you and your wife. Therefore becomethe old fisherman Dudeldee once again, for then you were not as proud andunsatisfied as you are now.Then the little fish disappeared. Hanns Dudeldee called outrepeatedly:"Little fish, little fish, in the sea!"But no little fish asked:"What do you want, Hanns Dudeldee?"And there he stood, as before, without a jacket, wearing only his dirtyleather trousers. And when he returned home, the palace was gone. Hislittle board hut was standing there again, with his wife inside in herdirty clothing and looking out through a knothole, as before, and onceagain she was the wife of Fisherman Dudeldee.