Next to a great forest there lived a poor woodcutter with hiswife and his two children. The boy's name was Hansel and the girl's namewas Gretel. He had but little to eat, and once, when a great faminecame to the land, he could no longer provide even their daily bread.One evening as he was lying in bed worrying about his problems,he sighed and said to his wife, "What is to become of us? How can wefeed our children when we have nothing for ourselves?""Man, do you know what?" answered the woman. "Early tomorrowmorning we will take the two children out into the thickest part of thewoods, make a fire for them, and give each of them a little piece of bread, thenleave them by themselves and go off to our work. They will not findtheir way back home, and we will be rid of them.""No, woman," said the man. "I will not do that. How could Ibring myself to abandon my own children alone in the woods? Wild animalswould soon come and tear them to pieces.""Oh, you fool," she said, "then all four of us will starve. Allyou can do is to plane the boards for our coffins." And she gave him nopeace until he agreed."But I do feel sorry for the poor children," said the man.The two children had not been able to fall asleep because oftheir hunger, and they heard what the stepmother had said to thefather.Gretel cried bitter tears and said to Hansel, "It is over with us!""Be quiet, Gretel," said Hansel, "and don't worry. I know whatto do."And as soon as the adults had fallen asleep, he got up, pulledon his jacket, opened the lower door, and crept outside. The moon wasshining brightly, and the white pebbles in front of the house wereglistening likesilver coins. Hansel bent over and filled his jacket pockets withthem, asmany as would fit.Then he went back into the house and said, "Don't worry,Gretel. Sleepwell. God will not forsake us." Then he went back to bed.At daybreak, even before sunrise, the woman came and woke thetwochildren. "Get up, you lazybones. We are going into the woods tofetchwood." Then she gave each one a little piece of bread, saying,"Here issomething for midday. Don't eat it any sooner, for you'll not getanymore."Gretel put the bread under her apron, because Hansel's pocketswerefull of stones. Then all together they set forth into the woods.Afterthey had walked a little way, Hansel began stopping again andagain andlooking back toward the house.The father said, "Hansel, why are you stopping and lookingback? Payattention now, and don't forget your legs.""Oh, father," said Hansel, "I am looking at my white cat thatissitting on the roof and wants to say good bye to me."The woman said, "You fool, that isn't your cat. That's themorning sunshining on the chimney."However, Hansel had not been looking at his cat but instead hadbeendropping the shiny pebbles from his pocket onto the path.When they arrived in the middle of the woods, the father said,"Youchildren gather some wood, and I will make a fire so you won'tfreeze."Hansel and Gretel gathered together some twigs, a pile as highas a small mountainThe twigs were set afire, and when the flames were burningwell, thewoman said, "Lie down by the fire and rest. We will go into thewoods tocut wood. When we are finished, we will come back and getyou."Hansel and Gretel sat by the fire. When midday came each oneate hislittle piece of bread. Because they could hear the blows of an ax,theythought that the father was nearby. However, it was not an ax. Itwas abranch that he had tied to a dead tree and that the wind wasbeating backand forth. After they had sat there a long time, their eyes grewweary andclosed, and they fell sound sleep.When they finally awoke, it was dark at night. Gretel began tocry andsaid, "How will we get out of woods?"Hansel comforted her, "Wait a little until the moon comes up,and thenwe'll find the way."After the full moon had come up, Hansel took his little sisterby thehand. They followed the pebbles that glistened there like newlymintedcoins, showing them the way. They walked throughout the entirenight, andas morning was breaking, they arrived at the father's house.They knocked on the door, and when the woman opened it and sawthat itwas Hansel and Gretel, she said, "You wicked children, why did yousleepso long in the woods? We thought that you did not want to comeback."But the father was overjoyed when he saw his children oncemore, for hehad not wanted to leave them alone.Not long afterward there was once again great need everywhere,and oneevening the children heard the mother say to the father, "We haveagaineaten up everything. We have only a half loaf of bread, and thenthe songwill be over. We must get rid of the children. We will take themdeeperinto the woods, so they will not find their way out. Otherwisethere willbe no help for us."The man was very disheartened, and he thought, "It would bebetter toshare the last bit with the children."But the woman would not listen to him, scolded him, andcriticized him.He who says A must also say B, and because he had given in thefirst time,he had to do so the second time as well.The children were still awake and had overheard theconversation. Whenthe adults were asleep, Hansel got up again and wanted to gatherpebblesas he had done before, but the woman had locked the door, andHansel couldnot get out. But he comforted his little sister and said, "Don'tcry,Gretel. Sleep well. God will help us."Early the next morning the woman came and got the children fromtheirbeds. They received their little pieces of bread, even less thanthe lasttime. On the way to the woods, Hansel crumbled his piece in hispocket,then often stood still, and threw crumbs onto the ground."Hansel, why are you always stopping and looking around?" saidhisfather. "Keep walking straight ahead.""I can see my pigeon sitting on the roof. It wants to saygood bye tome.""Fool," said the woman, "that isn't your pigeon. That's themorning sunshining on the chimney."But little by little Hansel dropped all the crumbs onto thepath. Thewoman took them deeper into the woods than they had ever been intheirwhole lifetime.Once again a large fire was made, and the mother said, "Sithere,children. If you get tired you can sleep a little. We are goinginto thewoods to cut wood. We will come and get you in the evening when wearefinished."When it was midday Gretel shared her bread with Hansel, who hadscattered his piece along the path. Then they fell asleep, andeveningpassed, but no one came to get the poor children.It was dark at night when they awoke, and Hansel comfortedGretel andsaid, "Wait, when the moon comes up I will be able to see thecrumbs ofbread that I scattered, and they will show us the way backhome."When the moon appeared they got up, but they could not find anycrumbs,for the many thousands of birds that fly about in the woods and inthefields had pecked them up.Hansel said to Gretel, "We will find our way," but they did notfindit.They walked through the entire night and the next day frommorninguntil evening, but they did not find their way out of the woods.They wereterribly hungry, for they had eaten only a few small berries thatweregrowing on the ground. And because they were so tired that theirlegswould no longer carry them, they lay down under a tree and fellasleep. Itwas already the third morning since they had left the father'shouse. Theystarted walking again, but managed only to go deeper and deeperinto thewoods. If help did not come soon, they would perish. At middaythey saw alittle snow white bird sitting on a branch. It sang so beautifullythatthey stopped to listen. When it was finished it stretched itswings and flew in front of them. They followed it until they came to alittle house. The bird sat on the roof, and when they came closer, they saw thatthe little house was built entirely from bread with a roof made ofcake, and the windows were made of clear sugar."Let's help ourselves to a good meal," said Hansel. "I'll eat apiece of the roof, and Gretel, you eat from the window. That will besweet."Hansel reached up and broke off a little of the roof to see howit tasted, while Gretel stood next to the windowpanes and wasnibbling at them. Then a gentle voice called out from inside:Nibble, nibble, little mouse,Who is nibbling at my house?The children answered:The wind, the wind,The heavenly child.They continued to eat, without being distracted. Hansel, who verymuch like the taste of the roof, tore down another large piece, andGretel poked out an entire round windowpane. Suddenly the door opened,and a woman, as old as the hills and leaning on a crutch, came creepingout. Hansel and Gretel were so frightened that they dropped what theywere holding in their hands.But the old woman shook her head and said, "Oh, you dearchildren, who brought you here? Just come in and stay with me. No harm will cometo you."She took them by the hand and led them into her house. Then sheserved them a good meal: milk and pancakes with sugar, apples, and nuts.Afterward she made two nice beds for them, decked in white. Hanseland Gretel went to bed, thinking they were in heaven. But the oldwoman had only pretended to be friendly. She was a wicked witch who waslying in wait there for children. She had built her house of bread only inorder to lure them to her, and if she captured one, she would kill him,cook him, and eat him. and for her that was a day to celebrate.Witches have red eyes and cannot see very far, but they have asense of smell like animals, and know when humans are approaching.When Hansel and Gretel came near to her, she laughed wickedlyand spoke scornfully, "Now I have them. They will not get away from meagain."Early the next morning, before they awoke, she got up, went totheir beds, and looked at the two of them lying there so peacefully,with their full red cheeks. "They will be a good mouthful," she mumbled toherself. Then she grabbed Hansel with her withered hand and carried him toa little stall, where she locked him behind a cage door. Cry as he might,there was no help for him.Then she shook Gretel and cried, "Get up, lazybones! Fetchwater and cook something good for your brother. He is locked outside in thestall and is to be fattened up. When he is fat I am going to eathim."Gretel began to cry, but it was all for nothing. She had to dowhat the witch demanded. Now Hansel was given the best things to eat everyday, but Gretel received nothing but crayfish shells.Every morning the old woman crept out to the stall and shouted,"Hansel, stick out your finger, so I can feel if you are fatyet."But Hansel stuck out a little bone, and the old woman, who hadbad eyes and could not see the bone, thought it was Hansel's finger, andshe wondered why he didn't get fat.When four weeks had passed and Hansel was still thin,impatience overcame her, and she would wait no longer. "Hey, Gretel!" sheshouted to the girl, "Hurry up and fetch some water. Whether Hansel is fat orthin, tomorrow I am going to slaughter him and boil him."Oh, how the poor little sister sobbed as she was forced tocarry the water, and how the tears streamed down her cheeks! "Dear God,please help us," she cried. "If only the wild animals had devoured us in thewoods, then we would have died together.""Save your slobbering," said the old woman. "It doesn't helpyou at all."The next morning Gretel had to get up early, hang up the kettlewith water, and make a fire."First we are going to bake," said the old woman. "I havealready made a fire in the oven and kneaded the dough."She pushed poor Gretel outside to the oven, from which fieryflames were leaping. "Climb in," said the witch, "and see if it is hotenough to put the bread in yet." And when Gretel was inside, she intended toclose the oven, and bake her, and eat her as well.But Gretel saw what she had in mind, so she said, "I don't knowhow to do that. How can I get inside?""Stupid goose," said the old woman. The opening is big enough.See, I myself could get in." And she crawled up stuck her head into theoven.Then Gretel gave her a shove, causing her to fall in. Then sheclosed the iron door and secured it with a bar. The old woman began tohowl frightfully. But Gretel ran away, and the godless witch burned upmiserably. Gretel ran straight to Hansel, unlocked his stall, andcried, "Hansel, we are saved. The old witch is dead."Then Hansel jumped out, like a bird from its cage when someoneopens its door. How happy they were! They threw their arms around eachother's necks, jumped with joy, and kissed one another. Because they nowhad nothing to fear, they went into the witch's house. In every cornerwere chests of pearls and precious stones."These are better than pebbles," said Hansel, filling hispockets.Gretel said, "I will take some home with me as well," and shefilled her apron full."But now we must leave," said Hansel, "and get out of thesewitch woods."After walking a few hours they arrived at a large body ofwater. "We cannot get across," said Hansel. "I cannot see a walkway or abridge.""There are no boats here," answered Gretel, "but there is awhite duck swimming. If I ask it, it will help us across."Then she called out:Duckling, duckling,Here stand Gretel and Hansel.Neither a walkway nor a bridge,Take us onto your white back.The duckling came up to them, and Hansel climbed onto it, thenasked his little sister to sit down next to him."No," answered Gretel. "That would be too heavy for theduckling. It should take us across one at a time."That is what the good animal did, and when they were safely onthe other side, and had walked on a little while, the woods grew moreand more familiar to them, and finally they saw the father's house in thedistance. They began to run, rushed inside, and threw their arms around thefather's neck.The man had not had even one happy hour since he had left thechildren in the woods. However, the woman had died. Gretel shook out herapron, scattering pearls and precious stones around the room, and Hanseladded to them by throwing one handful after the other from his pockets.Now all their cares were at an end, and they lived happilytogether.My tale is done,A mouse has run.And whoever catches it can make for himself from it a large, large furcap.