Translated from the Danish.In a village there once lived a smith called Basmus, who was in a verypoor way. He was still a young man, and a strong handsome fellow toboot, but he had many little children and there was little to be earnedby his trade. He was, however, a diligent and hard working man, and whenhe had no work in the smithy he was out at sea fishing, or gatheringwreckage on the shore.It happened one time that he had gone out to fish in good weather,all alone in a little boat, but he did not come home that day, nor thefollowing one, so that all believed he had perished out at sea. On thethird day, however, Basmus came to shore again and had his boat fullof fish, so big and fat that no one had ever seen their like. Therewas nothing the matter with him, and he complained neither of hunger orthirst. He had got into a fog, he said, and could not find land again.What he did not tell, however, was where he had been all the time. thatonly came out six years later, when people got to know that he had beencaught by a mermaid out on the deep sea, and had been her guest duringthe three days that he was missing. From that time forth he went out nomore to fish. nor, indeed, did he require to do so, for whenever he wentdown to the shore it never failed that some wreckage was washed up, andin it all kinds of valuable things. In those days everyone took whatthey found and got leave to keep it, so that the smith grew moreprosperous day by day.When seven years had passed since the smith went out to sea, it happenedone morning, as he stood in the smithy, mending a plough, that ahandsome young lad came in to him and said, 'Good day, father. my motherthe mermaid sends her greetings, and says that she has had me for sixyears now, and you can keep me for as long.'He was a strange enough boy to be six years old, for he looked as if hewere eighteen, and was even bigger and stronger than lads commonly areat that age.'Will you have a bite of bread?' said the smith.'Oh, yes,' said Hans, for that was his name.The smith then told his wife to cut a piece of bread for him. She didso, and the boy swallowed it at one mouthful and went out again to thesmithy to his father.'Have you got all you can eat?' said the smith.'No,' said Hans, 'that was just a little bit.'The smith went into the house and took a whole loaf, which he cut intotwo slices and put butter and cheese between them, and this he gave toHans. In a while the boy came out to the smithy again.'Well, have you got as much as you can eat?' said the smith.'No, not nearly,' said Hans. 'I must try to find a better place thanthis, for I can see that I shall never get my fill here.'Hans wished to set off at once, as soon as his father would make a stafffor him of such a kind as he wanted.'It must be of iron,' said he, 'and one that can hold out.'The smith brought him an iron rod as thick as an ordinary staff, butHans took it and twisted it round his finger, so that wouldn't do. Thenthe smith came dragging one as thick as a waggon pole, but Hans bent itover his knee and broke it like a straw. The smith then had to collectall the iron he had, and Hans held it while his father forged for him astaff, which was heavier than the anvil. When Hans had got this he said,'Many thanks, father. now I have got my inheritance.' With this he setoff into the country, and the smith was very pleased to be rid of thatson, before he ate him out of house and home.Hans first arrived at a large estate, and it so happened that the squirehimself was standing outside the farmyard.'Where are you going?' said the squire.'I am looking for a place,' said Hans, 'where they have need of strongfellows, and can give them plenty to eat.''Well,' said the squire, 'I generally have twenty four men at this timeof the year, but I have only twelve just now, so I can easily take youon.''Very well,' said Hans, 'I shall easily do twelve men's work, but then Imust also have as much to eat as the twelve would.'All this was agreed to, and the squire took Hans into the kitchen, andtold the servant girls that the new man was to have as much food as theother twelve. It was arranged that he should have a pot to himself, andhe could then use the ladle to take his food with.It was in the evening that Hans arrived there, so he did nothing morethat day than eat his supper a big pot of buck wheat porridge, whichhe cleaned to the bottom and was then so far satisfied that he said hecould sleep on that, so he went off to bed. He slept both well and long,and all the rest were up and at their work while he was still sleepingsoundly. The squire was also on foot, for he was curious to see how thenew man would behave who was both to eat and work for twelve.But as yet there was no Hans to be seen, and the sun was already high inthe heavens, so the squire himself went and called on him.'Get up, Hans,' he cried. 'you are sleeping too long.'Hans woke up and rubbed his eyes. 'Yes, that's true,' he said, 'I mustget up and have my breakfast.'So he rose and dressed himself, and went into the kitchen, where he gothis pot of porridge. he swallowed all of this, and then asked what workhe was to have.He was to thresh that day, said the squire. the other twelve men werealready busy at it. There were twelve threshing floors, and the twelvemen were at work on six of them two on each. Hans must thresh byhimself all that was lying upon the other six floors. He went out to thebarn and got hold of a flail. Then he looked to see how the others didit and did the same, but at hte first stroke he smashed the flail inpieces. There were several flails hanging there, and Hans took the oneafter the other, but they all went the same way, every one flying insplinters at the first stroke. He then looked round for something elseto work with, and found a pair of strong beams lying near. Next hecaught sight of a horse hide nailed up on the barn door. With the beamshe made a flail, using the skin to tie them together. The one beam heused as a handle, and the other to strike with, and now that was allright. But the barn was too low, there was no room to swing the flail,and the floors were too small. Hans, however, found a remedy forthis he simply lifted the whole roof off the barn, and set it down inthe field beside. He then emptied down all the corn that he could layhis hands on and threshed away. He went through one lot after another,and it was ll the same to him what he got hold of, so before midday hehad threshed all the squire's grain, his rye and wheat and barley andoats, all mixed through each other. When he was finished with this, helifted the roof up on the barn again, like setting a lid on a box, andwent in and told the squire that the job was done.The squire opened his eyes at this announcement. and came out to seeif it was really true. It was true, sure enough, but he was scarcelydelighted with the mixed grain that he got from all his crops. However,when he saw the flail that Hans had used, and learned how he had maderoom for himself to swing it, he was so afraid of the strong fellow,that he dared not say anything, except that it was a good thing he hadgot it threshed. but it had still to be cleaned.'What does that mean?' asked Hans.It was explained to him that the corn and the chaff had to be separated.as yet both were lying in one heap, right up to the roof. Hans beganto take up a little and sift it in his hands, but he soon saw thatthis would never do. He soon thought of a plan, however. he opened bothbarn doors, and then lay down at one end and blew, so that all the chaffflew out and lay like a sand bank at the other end of the barn, and thegrain was as clean as it could be. Then he reported to the squire thatthat job also was done. The squire said that that was well. there wasnothing more for him to do that day. Off went Hans to the kitchen, andgot as much as he could eat. then he went and took a midday nap whichlasted till supper time.Meanwhile the squire was quite miserable, and made his moan to his wife,saying that she must help him to find some means to getting rid of thisstrong fellow, for he durst not give him his leave. She sent for thesteward, and it was arranged that next day all the men should go to theforest for fire wood, and that they should make a bargain among them,that the one who came home last with his load should be hanged. Theythought they could easily manage that it would be Hans who would losehis life, for the others would be early on the road, while Hans wouldcertainly oversleep himself. In the evening, therefore, the men sat andtalked together, saying that next morning they must set out early tothe forest, and as they had a hard day's work and a long journey beforethem, they would, for their amusement, make a compact, that whichever ofthem came home last with his load should lose his life on the gallows.So Hans had no objections to make.Long before the sun was up next morning, all the twelve men were onfoot. They took all the best horses and carts, and drove off to theforest. Hans, however, lay and slept on, and the squire said, 'Just lethim lie.'At last, Hans thought it was time to have his breakfast, so he got upand put on his clothes. He took plenty of time to his breakfast, andthen went out to get his horse and cart ready. The others had takeneverything that was any good, so that he had a difficulty in scrapingtogether four wheels of different sizes and fixing them to an old cart,and he could find no other horses than a pair of old hacks. He did notknow where it lay, but he followed the track of the other carts, and inthat way came to it all right. On coming to the gate leading into theforest, he was unfortunate enough to break it in pieces, so he took ahuge stone that was lying on the field, seven ells long, and seven ellsbroad, and set this in the gap, then he went on and joined the others.These laughed at him heartily, for they had laboured as hard as theycould since daybreak, and had helped each other to fell trees and putthem on the carts, so that all of these were now loaded except one.Hans got hold of a woodman's axe and proceeded to fell a tree, but hedestroyed the edge and broke the shaft at the first blow. He thereforelaid down the axe, put his arms round the tree, and pulled it up by theroots. This he threw upon his cart, and then another and another, andthus he went on while all the others forgot their work, and stood withopen mouths, gazing at this strange woodcraft. All at once they began tohurry. the last cart was loaded, and they whipped up their horses, so asto be the first to arrive home.When Hans had finished his work, he again put his old hacks into thecart, but they could not move it from the spot. He was annoyed at this,and took them out again, twisted a rope round the cart, and all thetrees, lifted the whole affair on his back, and set off home, leadingthe horses behind him by the rein. When he reached the gate, he foundthe whole row of carts standing there, unable to get any further for thestone which lay in the gap.'What!' said Hans, 'can twelve men not move that stone?' With that helifted it and threw it out of hte way, and went on with his burden onhis back, and the horses behind him, and arrived at the farm long beforeany of the others. The squire was walking about there, looking andlooking, for he was very curious to know what had happened. Finally, hecaught sight of Hans coming along in this fashion, and was so frightenedthat he did not know what to do, but he shut the gate and put on thebar. When Hans reached the gate of the courtyard, he laid down the treesand hammered at it, but no one came to open it. He then took the treesand tossed them over the barn into the yard, and the cart after them, sothat every wheel flew off in a different direction.When the squire saw this, he thought to himself, 'The horses will comethe same way if I don't open the door,' so he did this.'Good day, master,' said Hans, and put the horses into the stable, andwent into the kitchen, to get something to eat. At length the other mencame home with their loads. When they came in, Hans said to them, 'Doyou remember the bargain we made last night? Which of you is it that'sgoing to be hanged?' 'Oh,' said they, 'that was only a joke. it didn'tmean anything.' 'Oh well, it doesn't matter, 'said Hans, and there wasno more about it.The squire, however, and his wife and the steward, had much to say toeach other about the terrible man they had got, and all were agreed thatthey must get rid of him in some way or other. The steward said that hewould manage this all right. Next morning they were to clean the well,and they would use of that opportunity. They would get him down intothe well, and then have a big mill stone ready to throw down on top ofhim that would settle him. After that they could just fill in the well,and then escape being at any expense for his funeral. Both the squireand his wife thought this a splendid idea, and went about rejoicing atthe thought that now they would get rid of Hans.But Hans was hard to kill, as we shall see. He slept long next morning,as he always did, and finally, as he would not waken by himself, thesquire had to go and call him. 'Get up, Hans, you are sleeping toolong,' he cried. Hans woke up and rubbed his eyes. 'That's so,' saidhe, 'I shall rise and have my breakfast.' He got up then and dressedhimself, while the breakfast stood waiting for him. When he had finishedthe whole of this, he asked what he was to do that day. He was told tohelp the other men to clean out the well. That was all right, and hewent out and found the other men waiting for him. To these he said thatthey could choose whichever task they liked either to go down into thewell and fill the buckets while he pulled them up, or pull them up, andhe alone would go down to the bottom of the well. They answered thatthey would rather stay above ground, as there would be no room for somany of them down in the well.Hans therefore went down alone, and began to clean out the well, butthe men had arranged how they were to act, and immediately each of themseized a stone from a heap of huge blocks, and threw them down abovehim, thinking to kill him with these. Hans, however, gave no more heedto this than to shout up to them, to keep the hens away from the well,for they were scraping gravel down on the top of him.They then saw that they could not kill him with little stones, but theyhad still the big one left. The whole twelve of them set to work withpoles and rollers and rolled the big mill stone to the brink of thewell. It was with the greatest difficulty that they got it thrown downthere, and now they had no doubt that he had got all that he wanted. Butthe stone happened to fall so luckily that his head went right throughthe hole in the middle of the mill stone, so that it sat round his necklike a priest's collar. At this, Hans would stay down no longer. He cameout of the well, with the mill stone round his neck, ad went straight tothe squire and complained that the other men were trying to make afool of him. He would not be their priest, he said. he had too littlelearning for that. Saying this, he bent down his head and shook thestone off, so that it crushed one of the squire's big toes.The squire went limping in to his wife, and the steward was sent for. Hewas told that he must devise some plan for getting rid of this terribleperson. The scheme he had devised before had been of no use, and nowgood counsel was scarce.'Oh, no' said the steward, 'there are good enough ways yet. The squirecan send him this evening to fish in Devilmoss Lake: he will neverescape alive from there, for no one can go there by night for Old Eric.'That was a grand idea, both the squire and his wife thought, and sohe limped out again to Hans, and said that he would punish his men forhaving tried to make a fool of him. Meanwhile, Hans could do a littlejob where he would be free from these rascals. He should go out on thelake and fish there that night, and would then be free from all work onthe following day.'All right,' said Hans. 'I am well content with that, but I must havesomething with me to eat a baking of bread, a cask of butter, a barrelof ale, and a keg of brandy. I can't do with less than that.'The squire said that he could easily get all that, so Hans got all ofthese tied up together, hung them over his shoulder on his good staff,and tramped away to Devilmoss Lake.There he got into the boat, rowed out upon the lake, and got everythingready to fish. As he now lay out there in the middle of the lake, andit was pretty late in the evening, he thought he would have something toeat first, before starting to work. Just as he was at his busiest withthis, Old Eric rose out of the lake, caught him by the cuff of the neck,whipped him out of the boat, and dragged him down to the bottom. It wasa lucky thing that Hans had his walking stick with him that day, and hadjust time to catch hold of it when he felt Old Eric's claws in his neck,so when they got down to the bottom he said, 'Stop now, just wait alittle. here is solid ground.' With that he caught Old Eric by the backof the neck with one hand, and hammered away on his back with the staff,till he beat him out as flat as a pancake. Old Eric then began to lamentand howl, begging him just to let him go, and he would never come backto the lake again.'No, my good fellow,' said Hans, 'you won't get off until you promiseto bring all the fish in the lake up to the squire's courtyard, beforeto morrow morning.'Old Eric eagerly promised this, if Hans would only let him go. so Hansrowed ashore, ate up the rest of his provisions, and went home to bed.Next morning, when the squire rose and opened his front door, the fishcame tumbling into the porch, and the whole yard was crammed full ofthem. He ran in again to his wife, for he could never devise anythinghimself, and said to her, 'What shall we do with him now? Old Erichasn't taken him. I am certain that all the fish are out of the lake,for the yard is just filled with them.''Yes, that's a bad business,' said she. 'you must see if you can't gethim sent to Purgatory, to demand tribute.' The squire therefore madehis way to the men's quarters, to speak to Hans, and it took him all histime to push his way along the walls, under the eaves, on account of thefish that filled the yard. He thanked Hans for having fished so well,and said that now he had an errand for him, which he could only give toa trusty servant, and that was to journey to Purgatory, and demand threeyears tribute, which, he said, was owing to him from that quarter.'Willingly,' said Hans. 'but what road do I go, to get there?'The squire stood, and did not know what to say, and had first to go into his wife to ask her.'Oh, what a fool you are!' said she, 'can't you direct him straightforward, south through the wood? Whether he gets there or not, we shallbe quit of him.'Out goes the squire again to Hans.'The way lies straight forward, south through the wood,' said he.Hans then must have his provisions for the journey. two bakings ofbread, two casks of butter, two barrels of ale, and two kegs of brandy.He tied all these up together, and got them on his shoulder hanging onhis good walking stick, and off he tramped southward.After he had got through the wood, there was more than one road, and hewas in doubt which of them was the right one, so he sat down and openedup his bundle of provisions. He found he had left his knife at home, butby good chance, there was a plough lying close at hand, so he took thecoulter of this to cut the bread with. As he sat there and took hisbite, a man came riding past him.'Where are you from?' said Hans.'From Purgatory,' said the man.'Then stop and wait a little,' said Hans. but the man was in a hurry,and would not stop, so Hans ran after him and caught the horse by thetail. This brought it down on its hind legs, and the man went flyingover its head into a ditch. 'Just wait a little,' said Hans. 'I am goingthe same way.' He got his provisions tied up again, and laid them on thehorse's back. then he took hold of the reins and said to the man, 'Wetwo can go along together on foot.'As they went on their way Hans told the stranger both about the errandhe had on hand and the fun he had had with Old Eric. The other said butlittle but he was well acquainted with the way, and it was no long timebefore they arrived at the gate. There both horse and rider disappeared,and Hans was left alone outside. 'They will come and let me inpresently,' he thought to himself. but no one came. He hammered at thegate. still no one appeared. Then he got tired of waiting, and smashedat the gate with his staff until he knocked it in pieces and got inside.A whole troop of little demons came down upon him and asked what hewanted. His master's compliments, said Hans, and he wanted three years'tribute. At this they howled at him, and were about to lay hold of himand drag him off. but when they had got some raps from his walking stickthey let go again, howled still louder than before, and ran in to OldEric, who was still in bed, after his adventure in the lake. They toldhim that a messenger had come from the squire at Devilmoss to demandthree years' tribute. He had knocked the gate to pieces and bruisedtheir arms and legs with his iron staff.'Give him three years'! give him ten!' shouted Old Eric, 'only don't lethim come near me.'So all the little demons came dragging so much silver and gold that itwas something awful. Hans filled his bundle with gold and silver coins,put it on his neck, and tramped back to his master, who was scaredbeyond all measure at seeing him again.But Hans was also tired of service now. Of all the gold and silverhe brought with him he let the squire keep one half, and he was gladenough, both for the money and at getting rid of Hans. The other halfhe took home to his father the smith in Furreby. To him also he said,'Farewell.' he was now tired of living on shore among mortal men, andpreferred to go home again to his mother. Since that time no one hasever seen Hans, the Mermaid's son.