Hans had served his master for seven years, so he said to him, "Master,my time is up, now I would like to go back home to my mother. Give me mywages."The master answered, "You have served me faithfully and honestly. Asthe service was, so shall the reward be." And he gave Hans a piece of goldas big as his head. Hans pulled his handkerchief out of his pocket,wrapped up the lump in it, put it on his shoulder, and set out on the wayhome. As he went on, always putting one leg before the other, he saw ahorseman trotting quickly and merrily by on a lively horse."Ah," said Hans quite loud, "what a fine thing it is to ride. There yousit as on a chair, never stumbling over a stone, saving your shoes, andmaking your way without even knowing it."The rider, who had heard him, stopped and called out, "Hey there, Hans,then why are you going on foot?""I must," answered he, "for I have this lump to carry home. It is truethat it is gold, but I cannot hold my head straight for it, and it hurtsmy shoulder.""I will tell you what," said the rider. "Let's trade. I will give youmy horse, and you can give me your lump.""With all my heart," said Hans. "But I can tell you, you will bedragging along with it."The rider got down, took the gold, and helped Hans up, then gave himthe bridle tight in his hands and said, "If you want to go fast, you mustclick your tongue and call out, 'jup, jup.'"Hans was heartily delighted as he sat upon the horse and rode away sobold and free. After a little while he thought that it ought to go faster,and he began to click with his tongue and call out, "jup, jup." The horsestarted a fast trot, and before Hans knew where he was, he was thrown offand lying in a ditch which separated the fields from the highway. Thehorse would have escaped if it had not been stopped by a peasant, who wascoming along the road and driving a cow before him.Hans pulled himself together and stood up on his legs again, but he wasvexed, and said to the peasant, "It is a poor joke, this riding,especially when one gets hold of a mare like this, that kicks and throwsone off, so that one has a chance of breaking one's neck. Never again willI mount it. Now I like your cow, for one can walk quietly behind her, andmoreover have one's milk, butter, and cheese every day without fail. Whatwould I not give to have such a cow?""Well," said the peasant, "if it would give you so much pleasure, I donot mind trading the cow for the horse." Hans agreed with the greatestdelight, and the peasant jumped upon the horse and rode quickly away.Hans drove his cow quietly before him, and thought over his luckybargain. "If only I have a morsel of bread   and that can hardly fail me  I can eat butter and cheese with it as often as I like. If I amthirsty, I can milk my cow and drink the milk. My goodness, what more canI want?"When he came to an inn he stopped, and to celebrate his good fortune,he ate up everything he had with him   his dinner and supper   and allhe had, and with his last few farthings had half a glass of beer. Then hedrove his cow onwards in the direction of his mother's village.As noon approached, the heat grew more oppressive, and Hans foundhimself upon a moor which would take at least another hour to cross. Hefelt very hot, and his tongue stuck to the roof of his mouth with thirst."I can find a cure for this," thought Hans. "I will milk the cow now andrefresh myself with the milk." He tied her to a withered tree, and as hehad no pail, he put his leather cap underneath, but try as he would, not adrop of milk came. And because he was working in a clumsy way, theimpatient beast at last gave him such a blow on his head with its hindfoot, that he fell to the ground, and for a long time did not know wherehe was. By good fortune a butcher just then came along the road with apushcart, in which lay a young pig."What sort of a trick is this?" he cried, and helped good Hans up. Hanstold him what had happened.The butcher gave him his flask and said, "Take a drink and refreshyourself. The cow will certainly give no milk. It is an old beast. At thebest it is only fit for the plow, or for the butcher.""Well, well," said Hans, as he stroked his hair down on his head. "Whowould have thought it? Certainly it is a fine thing when one can slaughtera beast like that for oneself. What meat one has! But I do not care muchfor beef, it is not juicy enough for me. But to have a young pig likethat! It tastes quite different, and there are sausages as well.""Listen, Hans," said the butcher. "To do you a favor, I will trade, andwill let you have the pig for the cow.""God reward you for your kindness," said Hans as he gave up the cow.The pig was unbound from the cart, and the cord by which it was tied wasput in his hand. Hans went on, thinking to himself how everything wasgoing just as he wished. If anything troublesome happened to him, it wasimmediately set right.Presently he was joined by a lad who was carrying a fine white gooseunder his arm. They greeted one another, and Hans began to tell of hisgood luck, and how he had always made such good trades. The boy told himthat he was taking the goose to a christening feast. "Just heft her," headded, taking hold of her by the wings. "Feel how heavy she is. She hasbeen fattened up for the last eight weeks. Anyone who bites into her aftershe has been roasted will have to wipe the fat from both sides of hismouth.""Yes," said Hans, hefting her with one hand, "she weighs a lot, but mypig is not so bad either."Meanwhile the lad looked suspiciously from one side to the other, andshook his head. "Look here, he said at last. "It may not be all right withyour pig. In the village through which I passed, the mayor himself hadjust had one stolen out of its sty. I fear   I fear that you have gothold of it there. They have sent out some people and it would be a badbusiness if they caught you with the pig. At the very least, you would beshut up in the dark hole.Good Hans was terrified. "For goodness' sake," he said. "help me out ofthis fix. You know more about this place than I do. Take my pig and leaveme your goose.""I am taking a risk," answered the lad, "but I do not want to be thecause of your getting into trouble." So he took the cord in his hand, andquickly drove the pig down a bypath. Good Hans, free from care, wenthomewards with the goose under his arm."When I think about it properly," he said to himself, "I have evengained by the trade. First there is the good roast meat, then the quantityof fat which will drip from it, and which will give me goose fat for mybread for a quarter of a year, and lastly the beautiful white feathers. Iwill have my pillow stuffed with them, and then indeed I shall go to sleepwithout being rocked. How glad my mother will be!"As he was going through the last village, there stood a scissorsgrinder with his cart, as his wheel whirred he sang,I sharpen scissors and quickly grind,My coat blows out in the wind behind.Hans stood still and looked at him. At last he spoke to him and said,"All's well with you, as you are so merry with your grinding.""Yes," answered the scissors grinder, "this trade has a goldenfoundation. A real grinder is a man who as often as he puts his hand intohis pocket finds gold in it. But where did you buy that fine goose?""I did not buy it, but traded my pig for it.""And the pig?"" I got it for a cow.""And the cow?""I got it for a horse.""And the horse?""For that I gave a lump of gold as big as my head.""And the gold?""Well, that was my wages for seven years' service.""You have known how to look after yourself each time," said thegrinder. "If you can only get on so far as to hear the money jingle inyour pocket whenever you stand up, you will have made your fortune.""How shall I manage that?" said Hans."You must become a grinder, as I am. Nothing particular is needed forit but a grindstone. Everything else takes care of itself. I have onehere. It is certainly a little worn, but you need not give me anything forit but your goose. Will you do it?""How can you ask?" answered Hans. "I shall be the luckiest fellow onearth. If I have money whenever I put my hand in my pocket, why should Iever worry again?" And he handed him the goose and received the grindstonein exchange."Now," said the grinder, picking up an ordinary heavy stone that laynearby, "here is another good stone for you as well, which you can use tohammer on and straighten your old nails. Carry it along with you and takegood care of it."Hans loaded himself with the stones, and went on with a contentedheart, his eyes shining with joy. "I must have been born with lucky skin,"he cried. "Everything I want happens to me just as if I were a Sunday'schild."Meanwhile, as he had been on his legs since daybreak, he began to feeltired. Hunger also tormented him, for in his joy at the bargain by whichhe got the cow he had eaten up all his store of food at once. At last hecould only go on with great difficulty, and was forced to stop everyminute. The stones, too, weighed him down dreadfully, and he could nothelp thinking how nice it would be if he would not have to carry them justthen.He crept like a snail until he came to a well in a field, where hethought that he would rest and refresh himself with a cool drink of water.In order that he might not damage the stones in sitting down, he laid themcarefully by his side on the edge of the well. Then he sat down on it, andwas about to bend over and drink, when he slipped, pushed against thestones, and both of them fell into the water. When Hans saw them with hisown eyes sinking to the bottom, he jumped for joy, and then knelt down,and with tears in his eyes thanked God for having shown him this favoralso, and delivered him in so good a way, and without his having any needto reproach himself, from those heavy stones which had been the onlythings that troubled him."No one under the sun is as fortunate as I am," he cried out. With alight heart and free from every burden he now ran on until he was at homewith his mother.