There was a certain Brahman in a certain village, named Harisarman. Hewas poor and foolish and in evil case for want of employment, and hehad very many children, that he might reap the fruit of his misdeedsin a former life. He wandered about begging with his family, and atlast he reached a certain city, and entered the service of a richhouseholder called Sthuladatta. His sons became keepers ofSthuladatta's cows and other property, and his wife a servant to him,and he himself lived near his house, performing the duty of anattendant. One day there was a feast on account of the marriage of thedaughter of Sthuladatta, largely attended by many friends of thebridegroom, and merry makers. Harisarman hoped that he would be ableto fill himself up to the throat with ghee and flesh and otherdainties, and get the same for his family, in the house of his patron.While he was anxiously expecting to be fed, no one thought of him.Then he was distressed at getting nothing to eat, and he said to hiswife at night, "It is owing to my poverty and stupidity that I amtreated with such disrespect here. so I will pretend by means of anartifice to possess a knowledge of magic, so that I may become anobject of respect to this Sthuladatta. so, when you get anopportunity, tell him that I possess magical knowledge." He said thisto her, and after turning the matter over in his mind, while peoplewere asleep he took away from the house of Sthuladatta a horse onwhich his master's son in law rode. He placed it in concealment atsome distance, and in the morning the friends of the bridegroom couldnot find the horse, though they searched in every direction. Then,while Sthuladatta was distressed at the evil omen, and searching forthe thieves who had carried off the horse, the wife of Harisarman cameand said to him, "My husband is a wise man, skilled in astrology andmagical sciences. he can get the horse back for you. why do you notask him?" When Sthuladatta heard that, he called Harisarman, whosaid, "Yesterday I was forgotten, but to day, now the horse is stolen,I am called to mind," and Sthuladatta then propitiated the Brahmanwith these words "I forgot you, forgive me" and asked him to tellhim who had taken away their horse. Then Harisarman drew all kinds ofpretended diagrams, and said: "The horse has been placed by thieves onthe boundary line south from this place. It is concealed there, andbefore it is carried off to a distance, as it will be at close of day,go quickly and bring it." When they heard that, many men ran andbrought the horse quickly, praising the discernment of Harisarman.Then Harisarman was honoured by all men as a sage, and dwelt there inhappiness, honoured by Sthuladatta.Now, as days went on, much treasure, both of gold and jewels, had beenstolen by a thief from the palace of the king. As the thief was notknown, the king quickly summoned Harisarman on account of hisreputation for knowledge of magic. And he, when summoned, tried togain time, and said, "I will tell you to morrow," and then he wasplaced in a chamber by the king, and carefully guarded. And he was sadbecause he had pretended to have knowledge. Now in that palace therewas a maid named Jihva (which means Tongue), who, with the assistanceof her brother, had stolen that treasure from the interior of thepalace. She, being alarmed at Harisarman's knowledge, went at nightand applied her ear to the door of that chamber in order to find outwhat he was about. And Harisarman, who was alone inside, was at thatvery moment blaming his own tongue, that had made a vain assumption ofknowledge. He said: "O Tongue, what is this that you have donethrough your greediness? Wicked one, you will soon receive punishmentin full." When Jihva heard this, she thought, in her terror, that shehad been discovered by this wise man, and she managed to get in wherehe was, and falling at his feet, she said to the supposed wizard:"Brahman, here I am, that Jihva whom you have discovered to be thethief of the treasure, and after I took it I buried it in the earth ina garden behind the palace, under a pomegranate tree. So spare me, andreceive the small quantity of gold which is in my possession."When Harisarman heard that, he said to her proudly: "Depart, I knowall this. I know the past, present and future. but I will not denounceyou, being a miserable creature that has implored my protection. Butwhatever gold is in your possession you must give back to me." When hesaid this to the maid, she consented, and departed quickly. ButHarisarman reflected in his astonishment: "Fate brings about, as if insport, things impossible, for when calamity was so near, who wouldhave thought chance would have brought us success? While I was blamingmy jihva, the thief Jihva suddenly flung herself at my feet. Secretcrimes manifest themselves by means of fear." Thus thinking, he passedthe night happily in the chamber. And in the morning he brought theking, by some skilful parade of pretended knowledge into the garden,and led him up to the treasure, which was buried under the pomegranatetree, and said that the thief had escaped with a part of it. Then theking was pleased, and gave him the revenue of many villages.But the minister, named Devajnanin, whispered in the king's ear: "Howcan a man possess such knowledge unattainable by men, without havingstudied the books of magic. you may be certain that this is a specimenof the way he makes a dishonest livelihood, by having a secretintelligence with thieves. It will be much better to test him by somenew artifice." Then the king of his own accord brought a coveredpitcher into which he had thrown a frog, and said to Harisarman,"Brahman, if you can guess what there is in this pitcher, I will doyou great honour to day." When the Brahman Harisarman heard that, hethought that his last hour had come, and he called to mind the petname of "Froggie" which his father had given him in his childhood insport, and, impelled by luck, he called to himself by his pet name,lamenting his hard fate, and suddenly called out: "This is a finepitcher for you, Froggie. it will soon become the swift destroyer ofyour helpless self." The people there, when they heard him say that,raised a shout of applause, because his speech chimed in so well withthe object presented to him, and murmured, "Ah! a great sage, he knowseven about the frog!" Then the king, thinking that this was all due toknowledge of divination, was highly delighted, and gave Harisarman therevenue of more villages, with gold, an umbrella, and state carriagesof all kinds. So Harisarman prospered in the world.