There was a certain Brahman in a certain village, named Harisarman. Hewas poor and foolish and in evil case for want of employment, and he hadvery many children, that he might reap the fruit of his misdeeds in aformer life. He wandered about begging with his family, and at last hereached a certain city, and entered the service of a rich householdercalled Sthuladatta. His sons became keepers of Sthuladatta's cows andother property, and his wife a servant to him, and he himself lived nearhis house, performing the duty of an attendant. One day there was a feaston account of the marriage of the daughter of Sthuladatta, largelyattended by many friends of the bridegroom, and merrymakers. Harisarmanhoped that he would be able to fill himself up to the throat with ghee andflesh and other dainties, and get the same for his family, in the house ofhis patron. While he was anxiously expecting to be fed, no one thought ofhim.Then he was distressed at getting nothing to eat, and he said to hiswife at night, "It is owing to my poverty and stupidity that I am treatedwith such disrespect here. so I will pretend by means of an artifice topossess a knowledge of magic, so that I may become an object of respect tothis Sthuladatta. so, when you get an opportunity, tell him that I possessmagical knowledge." He said this to her, and after turning the matter overin his mind, while people were asleep he took away from the house ofSthuladatta a horse on which his master's son in law rode. He placed it inconcealment at some distance, and in the morning the friends of thebridegroom could not find the horse, though they searched in everydirection. Then, while Sthuladatta was distressed at the evil omen, andsearching for the thieves who had carried off the horse, the wife ofHarisarman came and said to him, "My husband is a wise man, skilled inastrology and magical sciences. He can get the horse back for you. Why doyou not ask him?"When Sthuladatta heard that, he called Harisarman, who said, "YesterdayI was forgotten, but today, now the horse is stolen, I am called to mind,"and Sthuladatta then propitiated the Brahman with these words, "I forgotyou, forgive me," and asked him to tell him who had taken away theirhorse. Then Harisarman drew all kinds of pretended diagrams, and said,"The horse has been placed by thieves on the boundary line south from thisplace. It is concealed there, and before it is carried off to a distance,as it will be at close of day, go quickly and bring it." When they heardthat, many men ran and brought the horse quickly, praising the discernmentof Harisarman. Then Harisarman was honored by all men as a sage, and dweltthere in happiness, honored by Sthuladatta.Now, as days went on, much treasure, both of gold and jewels, had beenstolen by a thief from the palace of the king. As the thief was not known,the king quickly summoned Harisarman on account of his reputation forknowledge of magic. And he, when summoned, tried to gain time, and said,"I will tell you tomorrow," and then he was placed in a chamber by theking, and carefully guarded. And he was sad because he had pretended tohave knowledge. Now in that palace there was a maid named Jihva (whichmeans tongue), who, with the assistance of her brother, had stolen thattreasure from the interior of the palace. She, being alarmed atHarisarman's knowledge, went at night and applied her ear to the door ofthat chamber in order to find out what he was about. And Harisarman, whowas alone inside, was at that very moment blaming his own tongue, that hadmade a vain assumption of knowledge. He said, "Oh tongue, what is thisthat you have done through your greediness? Wicked one, you will soonreceive punishment in full." When Jihva heard this, she thought, in herterror, that she had been discovered by this wise man, and she managed toget in where he was, and falling at his feet, she said to the supposedwizard, "Brahman, here I am, that Jihva whom you have discovered to be thethief of the treasure, and after I took it I buried it in the earth in agarden behind the palace, under a pomegranate tree. So spare me, andreceive the small quantity of gold which is in my possession."When Harisarman heard that, he said to her proudly, "Depart, I know allthis. I know the past, present and future. but I will not denounce you,being a miserable creature that has implored my protection. But whatevergold is in your possession you must give back to me." When he said this tothe maid, she consented, and departed quickly. But Harisarman reflected inhis astonishment, "Fate brings about, as if in sport, things impossible,for when calamity was so near, who would have thought chance would havebrought us success? While I was blaming my jihva, the thief Jihva suddenlyflung herself at my feet. Secret crimes manifest themselves by means offear." Thus thinking, he passed the night happily in the chamber. And inthe morning he brought the king, by some skillful parade of pretendedknowledge into the garden, and led him up to the treasure, which wasburied under the pomegranate tree, and said that the thief had escapedwith a part of it. Then the king was pleased, and gave him the revenue ofmany villages.But the minister, named Devajnanin, whispered in the king's ear, "Howcan a man possess such knowledge unattainable by men, without havingstudied the books of magic. You may be certain that this is a specimen ofthe way he makes a dishonest livelihood, by having a secret intelligencewith thieves. It will be much better to test him by some newartifice."Then the king of his own accord brought a covered pitcher into which hehad thrown a frog, and said to Harisarman, "Brahman, if you can guess whatthere is in this pitcher, I will do you great honor today." When theBrahman Harisarman heard that, he thought that his last hour had come, andhe called to mind the pet name of "Froggie" which his father had given himin his childhood in sport, and, impelled by luck, he called to himself byhis pet name, lamenting his hard fate, and suddenly called out, "This is afine pitcher for you, Froggie. it will soon become the swift destroyer ofyour helpless self." The people there, when they heard him say that,raised a shout of applause, because his speech chimed in so well with theobject presented to him, and murmured, "Ah! a great sage, he knows evenabout the frog!" Then the king, thinking that this was all due toknowledge of divination, was highly delighted, and gave Harisarman therevenue of more villages, with gold, an umbrella, and state carriages ofall kinds. So Harisarman prospered in the world.