Bolton upon Swale, a chapelry in the parish of Catterick, (is) famous for being the birth place of Henry Jenkins, who affords such an astonishing instance of longevity, as to have been "the oldest man born upon the ruins of this postdiluvian world."He was born in the year 1500, and followed the employment of fishing for one hundred and forty years. When about eleven or twelve years old, he was sent to Northallerton with a horse load of arrows for the army of the Earl of Surrey, on its march to the north, all the men being then employed at harvest.When he was more than one hundred years old, he used to swim and wade across the river with the greatest ease, and without catching cold. What is the most remarkable, he retained his sight to the last, having made without spectacles two artificial flies for fishing the year before he died. his hearing also continued till his death. Being summoned to give evidence in a tithe cause in 1667, between Charles Anthony, Vicar of Catterick, and Calvert Smithson, owner and occupier of lands in Kipling, he deposed, "That the tithes of wool, lamb,  c., mentioned in the interrogatories, were the vicar's, and had been paid to his knowledge six score years and more." And in another cause at York, between John Grubham Howe, Esq., and Mrs. Wastell of Eilerton, about the royalty of the river Swale, he gave evidence to one hundred and forty years.Previous to Jenkins's going to York, when the agent of Mrs. Wastell went to him, to find out what account he could give about the matter in dispute, he saw an old man sitting at the door, to whom he told his business.The old man said, "He could remember nothing about it, but that he would find his father in the house, who perhaps could satisfy him."When he went in he saw another old man sitting over the fire, bowed down with years, to whom he repeated his former question.With some difficulty he made him understand what he had said. and after a little time got the following answer which surprised him very much, "That he knew nothing about it, but that if he would go into the yard, he would meet with his father, who perhaps could tell him."The agent upon this thought that he had met with a race of antediluvians. However into the yard he went, and to his no small astonish ment found a venerable old man, with a long beard and a broad leathern belt about him, chopping sticks. To this man he again told his business and received such information as in the end recovered the royalty in dispute.As this was a singular piece of service to Mrs. Wastell's cause, which without this man's evidence must have been given to her antagonist, some little annuity might have been settled upon him. but so far from it, that in his old age he went about asking charity and lived the remainder of his life upon very coarse diet.