It was believed at one time that the Finns (Sami) frequently came over toShetland taking the form of seals. In this connection a remarkable talewas told in Papa Stoor ("Big Priest" Island).The islanders were often in the habit of visiting the outlying VeeSkerries for the purpose of hunting seals. On one occasion a man namedHerman Perk, accompanied by others, left for the skerries in a smallboat. When they arrived there Herman was landed on the rocks, but hiscompanions remained in the boat to prevent it getting damaged. Ithappened, however, that a severe storm burst without warning, and the menfound after several daring attempts, that it was quite impossible to getHerman off again. The storm was increasing in severity, and latterly theywere compelled, for their own safety, to attempt getting back to Papa.After a terrible passage they succeeded in reaching the island, and theirfirst act was to proceed to the home of their ill fated companion to tellhis folk what had befallen him. Imagine their surprise, however, onfinding him comfortably seated at his fireside.Herman had a strange story to tell them. Shortly after the boat left theskerries, he observed a large seal coming up, and as he watched itsprogress, it suddenly raised itself in the angry sea, and he became awarethat it was speaking to him."Herman Perk," it said, "you have destroyed many of our folks in yourtime, yet nevertheless if you will undertake to do me a service, I willcarry you in safety to Papa tonight. Some time ago my wife Maryara wasmade captive in Papa. Her skin is now hanging in the skio (hut fordrying fish) at Nortoos, and without it she cannot return with me toFinmark (in northern Norway). It is the third skin from the door, and Iwish you to bring it to me."Herman had readily agreed to this proposition, whereupon he was told tocut two slits in the seal's back as supports for his feet, and then placehis arms firmly round the animal's neck. The latter immediately took tothe water, and in a remarkably short time Herman had the gratification oflanding safely in Papa.True to his promise, he went to the skio indicated, where he foundthe skin without any difficulty, and carried it down to the beach. Theseal was waiting his coming, and at its side was the most beautiful womanhe had ever beheld. The seal gave the skin to its lovely companion, andthen apparently left its own body behind, and the happy pair immediatelytook their departure over the sea.The following morning Herman went again to Nortoos. There, sure enough,lay the skin of a large seal, and it had two cuts behind the flippers. Heplaced it where he had taken the other from.After that Herman was a prosperous man, but he was never known to visitthe Vee Skerries again.