Prince. He was gilded all over with thin leaves of fine gold, for eyeshe had two bright sapphires, and a large red ruby glowed on hissword hilt.He was very much admired indeed. "He is as beautiful as a weathercock,"remarked one of the Town Councillors who wished to gain a reputation forhaving artistic tastes. "only not quite so useful," he added, fearinglest people should think him unpractical, which he really was not."Why can't you be like the Happy Prince?" asked a sensible mother of herlittle boy who was crying for the moon. "The Happy Prince never dreamsof crying for anything.""I am glad there is some one in the world who is quite happy," muttered adisappointed man as he gazed at the wonderful statue."He looks just like an angel," said the Charity Children as they came outof the cathedral in their bright scarlet cloaks and their clean whitepinafores."How do you know?" said the Mathematical Master, "you have never seenone.""Ah! but we have, in our dreams," answered the children. and theMathematical Master frowned and looked very severe, for he did notapprove of children dreaming.One night there flew over the city a little Swallow. His friends hadgone away to Egypt six weeks before, but he had stayed behind, for he wasin love with the most beautiful Reed. He had met her early in the springas he was flying down the river after a big yellow moth, and had been soattracted by her slender waist that he had stopped to talk to her."Shall I love you?" said the Swallow, who liked to come to the point atonce, and the Reed made him a low bow. So he flew round and round her,touching the water with his wings, and making silver ripples. This washis courtship, and it lasted all through the summer."It is a ridiculous attachment," twittered the other Swallows. "she hasno money, and far too many relations". and indeed the river was quitefull of Reeds. Then, when the autumn came they all flew away.After they had gone he felt lonely, and began to tire of his lady love."She has no conversation," he said, "and I am afraid that she is acoquette, for she is always flirting with the wind." And certainly,whenever the wind blew, the Reed made the most graceful curtseys. "Iadmit that she is domestic," he continued, "but I love travelling, and mywife, consequently, should love travelling also.""Will you come away with me?" he said finally to her. but the Reed shookher head, she was so attached to her home."You have been trifling with me," he cried. "I am off to the Pyramids.Good bye!" and he flew away.All day long he flew, and at night time he arrived at the city. "Whereshall I put up?" he said. "I hope the town has made preparations."Then he saw the statue on the tall column."I will put up there," he cried. "it is a fine position, with plenty offresh air." So he alighted just between the feet of the Happy Prince."I have a golden bedroom," he said softly to himself as he looked round,and he prepared to go to sleep. but just as he was putting his head underhis wing a large drop of water fell on him. "What a curious thing!" hecried. "there is not a single cloud in the sky, the stars are quite clearand bright, and yet it is raining. The climate in the north of Europe isreally dreadful. The Reed used to like the rain, but that was merely herselfishness."Then another drop fell."What is the use of a statue if it cannot keep the rain off?" he said. "Imust look for a good chimney pot," and he determined to fly away.But before he had opened his wings, a third drop fell, and he looked up,and sawAh! what did he see?The eyes of the Happy Prince were filled with tears, and tears wererunning down his golden cheeks. His face was so beautiful in themoonlight that the little Swallow was filled with pity."Who are you?" he said."I am the Happy Prince.""Why are you weeping then?" asked the Swallow. "you have quite drenchedme.""When I was alive and had a human heart," answered the statue, "I did notknow what tears were, for I lived in the Palace of Sans Souci, wheresorrow is not allowed to enter. In the daytime I played with mycompanions in the garden, and in the evening I led the dance in the GreatHall. Round the garden ran a very lofty wall, but I never cared to askwhat lay beyond it, everything about me was so beautiful. My courtierscalled me the Happy Prince, and happy indeed I was, if pleasure behappiness. So I lived, and so I died. And now that I am dead they haveset me up here so high that I can see all the ugliness and all the miseryof my city, and though my heart is made of lead yet I cannot chose butweep.""What! is he not solid gold?" said the Swallow to himself. He was toopolite to make any personal remarks out loud."Far away," continued the statue in a low musical voice, "far away in alittle street there is a poor house. One of the windows is open, andthrough it I can see a woman seated at a table. Her face is thin andworn, and she has coarse, red hands, all pricked by the needle, for sheis a seamstress. She is embroidering passion flowers on a satin gown forthe loveliest of the Queen's maids of honour to wear at the nextCourt ball. In a bed in the corner of the room her little boy is lyingill. He has a fever, and is asking for oranges. His mother has nothingto give him but river water, so he is crying. Swallow, Swallow, littleSwallow, will you not bring her the ruby out of my sword hilt? My feetare fastened to this pedestal and I cannot move.""I am waited for in Egypt," said the Swallow. "My friends are flying upand down the Nile, and talking to the large lotus flowers. Soon theywill go to sleep in the tomb of the great King. The King is therehimself in his painted coffin. He is wrapped in yellow linen, andembalmed with spices. Round his neck is a chain of pale green jade, andhis hands are like withered leaves.""Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow," said the Prince, "will you not staywith me for one night, and be my messenger? The boy is so thirsty, andthe mother so sad.""I don't think I like boys," answered the Swallow. "Last summer, when Iwas staying on the river, there were two rude boys, the miller's sons,who were always throwing stones at me. They never hit me, of course. weswallows fly far too well for that, and besides, I come of a familyfamous for its agility. but still, it was a mark of disrespect."But the Happy Prince looked so sad that the little Swallow was sorry."It is very cold here," he said. "but I will stay with you for one night,and be your messenger.""Thank you, little Swallow," said the Prince.So the Swallow picked out the great ruby from the Prince's sword, andflew away with it in his beak over the roofs of the town.He passed by the cathedral tower, where the white marble angels weresculptured. He passed by the palace and heard the sound of dancing. Abeautiful girl came out on the balcony with her lover. "How wonderfulthe stars are," he said to her, "and how wonderful is the power of love!""I hope my dress will be ready in time for the State ball," she answered."I have ordered passion flowers to be embroidered on it. but theseamstresses are so lazy."He passed over the river, and saw the lanterns hanging to the masts ofthe ships. He passed over the Ghetto, and saw the old Jews bargainingwith each other, and weighing out money in copper scales. At last hecame to the poor house and looked in. The boy was tossing feverishly onhis bed, and the mother had fallen asleep, she was so tired. In hehopped, and laid the great ruby on the table beside the woman's thimble.Then he flew gently round the bed, fanning the boy's forehead with hiswings. "How cool I feel," said the boy, "I must be getting better". andhe sank into a delicious slumber.Then the Swallow flew back to the Happy Prince, and told him what he haddone. "It is curious," he remarked, "but I feel quite warm now, althoughit is so cold.""That is because you have done a good action," said the Prince. And thelittle Swallow began to think, and then he fell asleep. Thinking alwaysmade him sleepy.When day broke he flew down to the river and had a bath. "What aremarkable phenomenon," said the Professor of Ornithology as he waspassing over the bridge. "A swallow in winter!" And he wrote a longletter about it to the local newspaper. Every one quoted it, it was fullof so many words that they could not understand."To night I go to Egypt," said the Swallow, and he was in high spirits atthe prospect. He visited all the public monuments, and sat a long timeon top of the church steeple. Wherever he went the Sparrows chirruped,and said to each other, "What a distinguished stranger!" so he enjoyedhimself very much.When the moon rose he flew back to the Happy Prince. "Have you anycommissions for Egypt?" he cried. "I am just starting.""Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow," said the Prince, "will you not staywith me one night longer?""I am waited for in Egypt," answered the Swallow. "To morrow my friendswill fly up to the Second Cataract. The river horse couches there amongthe bulrushes, and on a great granite throne sits the God Memnon. Allnight long he watches the stars, and when the morning star shines heutters one cry of joy, and then he is silent. At noon the yellow lionscome down to the water's edge to drink. They have eyes like greenberyls, and their roar is louder than the roar of the cataract.""Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow," said the Prince, "far away across thecity I see a young man in a garret. He is leaning over a desk coveredwith papers, and in a tumbler by his side there is a bunch of witheredviolets. His hair is brown and crisp, and his lips are red as apomegranate, and he has large and dreamy eyes. He is trying to finish aplay for the Director of the Theatre, but he is too cold to write anymore. There is no fire in the grate, and hunger has made him faint.""I will wait with you one night longer," said the Swallow, who really hada good heart. "Shall I take him another ruby?""Alas! I have no ruby now," said the Prince. "my eyes are all that Ihave left. They are made of rare sapphires, which were brought out ofIndia a thousand years ago. Pluck out one of them and take it to him.He will sell it to the jeweller, and buy food and firewood, and finishhis play.""Dear Prince," said the Swallow, "I cannot do that". and he began toweep."Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow," said the Prince, "do as I commandyou."So the Swallow plucked out the Prince's eye, and flew away to thestudent's garret. It was easy enough to get in, as there was a hole inthe roof. Through this he darted, and came into the room. The young manhad his head buried in his hands, so he did not hear the flutter of thebird's wings, and when he looked up he found the beautiful sapphire lyingon the withered violets."I am beginning to be appreciated," he cried. "this is from some greatadmirer. Now I can finish my play," and he looked quite happy.The next day the Swallow flew down to the harbour. He sat on the mast ofa large vessel and watched the sailors hauling big chests out of the holdwith ropes. "Heave a hoy!" they shouted as each chest came up. "I amgoing to Egypt"! cried the Swallow, but nobody minded, and when the moonrose he flew back to the Happy Prince."I am come to bid you good bye," he cried."Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow," said the Prince, "will you not staywith me one night longer?""It is winter," answered the Swallow, "and the chill snow will soon behere. In Egypt the sun is warm on the green palm trees, and thecrocodiles lie in the mud and look lazily about them. My companions arebuilding a nest in the Temple of Baalbec, and the pink and white dovesare watching them, and cooing to each other. Dear Prince, I must leaveyou, but I will never forget you, and next spring I will bring you backtwo beautiful jewels in place of those you have given away. The rubyshall be redder than a red rose, and the sapphire shall be as blue as thegreat sea.""In the square below," said the Happy Prince, "there stands a littlematch girl. She has let her matches fall in the gutter, and they are allspoiled. Her father will beat her if she does not bring home some money,and she is crying. She has no shoes or stockings, and her little head isbare. Pluck out my other eye, and give it to her, and her father willnot beat her.""I will stay with you one night longer," said the Swallow, "but I cannotpluck out your eye. You would be quite blind then.""Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow," said the Prince, "do as I commandyou."So he plucked out the Prince's other eye, and darted down with it. Heswooped past the match girl, and slipped the jewel into the palm of herhand. "What a lovely bit of glass," cried the little girl. and she ranhome, laughing.Then the Swallow came back to the Prince. "You are blind now," he said,"so I will stay with you always.""No, little Swallow," said the poor Prince, "you must go away to Egypt.""I will stay with you always," said the Swallow, and he slept at thePrince's feet.All the next day he sat on the Prince's shoulder, and told him stories ofwhat he had seen in strange lands. He told him of the red ibises, whostand in long rows on the banks of the Nile, and catch gold fish in theirbeaks. of the Sphinx, who is as old as the world itself, and lives in thedesert, and knows everything. of the merchants, who walk slowly by theside of their camels, and carry amber beads in their hands. of the Kingof the Mountains of the Moon, who is as black as ebony, and worships alarge crystal. of the great green snake that sleeps in a palm tree, andhas twenty priests to feed it with honey cakes. and of the pygmies whosail over a big lake on large flat leaves, and are always at war with thebutterflies."Dear little Swallow," said the Prince, "you tell me of marvellousthings, but more marvellous than anything is the suffering of men and ofwomen. There is no Mystery so great as Misery. Fly over my city, littleSwallow, and tell me what you see there."So the Swallow flew over the great city, and saw the rich making merry intheir beautiful houses, while the beggars were sitting at the gates. Heflew into dark lanes, and saw the white faces of starving childrenlooking out listlessly at the black streets. Under the archway of abridge two little boys were lying in one another's arms to try and keepthemselves warm. "How hungry we are!" they said. "You must not liehere," shouted the Watchman, and they wandered out into the rain.Then he flew back and told the Prince what he had seen."I am covered with fine gold," said the Prince, "you must take it off,leaf by leaf, and give it to my poor. the living always think that goldcan make them happy."Leaf after leaf of the fine gold the Swallow picked off, till the HappyPrince looked quite dull and grey. Leaf after leaf of the fine gold hebrought to the poor, and the children's faces grew rosier, and theylaughed and played games in the street. "We have bread now!" they cried.Then the snow came, and after the snow came the frost. The streetslooked as if they were made of silver, they were so bright andglistening. long icicles like crystal daggers hung down from the eaves ofthe houses, everybody went about in furs, and the little boys worescarlet caps and skated on the ice.The poor little Swallow grew colder and colder, but he would not leavethe Prince, he loved him too well. He picked up crumbs outside thebaker's door when the baker was not looking and tried to keep himselfwarm by flapping his wings.But at last he knew that he was going to die. He had just strength tofly up to the Prince's shoulder once more. "Good bye, dear Prince!" hemurmured, "will you let me kiss your hand?""I am glad that you are going to Egypt at last, little Swallow," said thePrince, "you have stayed too long here. but you must kiss me on the lips,for I love you.""It is not to Egypt that I am going," said the Swallow. "I am going tothe House of Death. Death is the brother of Sleep, is he not?"And he kissed the Happy Prince on the lips, and fell down dead at hisfeet.At that moment a curious crack sounded inside the statue, as if somethinghad broken. The fact is that the leaden heart had snapped right in two.It certainly was a dreadfully hard frost.Early the next morning the Mayor was walking in the square below incompany with the Town Councillors. As they passed the column he lookedup at the statue: "Dear me! how shabby the Happy Prince looks!" he said."How shabby indeed!" cried the Town Councillors, who always agreed withthe Mayor. and they went up to look at it."The ruby has fallen out of his sword, his eyes are gone, and he isgolden no longer," said the Mayor in fact, "he is litttle better than abeggar!""Little better than a beggar," said the Town Councillors."And here is actually a dead bird at his feet!" continued the Mayor. "Wemust really issue a proclamation that birds are not to be allowed to diehere." And the Town Clerk made a note of the suggestion.So they pulled down the statue of the Happy Prince. "As he is no longerbeautiful he is no longer useful," said the Art Professor at theUniversity.Then they melted the statue in a furnace, and the Mayor held a meeting ofthe Corporation to decide what was to be done with the metal. "We musthave another statue, of course," he said, "and it shall be a statue ofmyself.""Of myself," said each of the Town Councillors, and they quarrelled.When I last heard of them they were quarrelling still."What a strange thing!" said the overseer of the workmen at the foundry."This broken lead heart will not melt in the furnace. We must throw itaway." So they threw it on a dust heap where the dead Swallow was alsolying."Bring me the two most precious things in the city," said God to one ofHis Angels. and the Angel brought Him the leaden heart and the dead bird."You have rightly chosen," said God, "for in my garden of Paradise thislittle bird shall sing for evermore, and in my city of gold the HappyPrince shall praise me."