Once, in a mountainous district, there lived a certain farmer, whose nameand that of his farm have not been handed down to us. so we cannot tellthem. He was unmarried, and had a housekeeper named Hildur, concerningwhose family and descent he knew nothing whatever. She had all the indooraffairs of the farm under her charge, and managed them wondrous well. Allthe inmates of the house, the farmer himself to boot, were fond of her, asshe was clean and thrifty in her habits, and kind and gentle in speech.Everything about the place flourished exceedingly, but the farmer alwaysfound the greatest difficulty in hiring a herdsman. a very importantmatter, as the well being of the farm depended not a little on the caretaken of the sheep. This difficulty did not arise from any fault of thefarmer's own, or from neglect on the part of the housekeeper to thecomforts of the servants, but from the fact, that no herdsman who enteredhis service lived more than a year, each one being without fail found deadin his bed, on the morning of Christmas Day. No wonder, therefore, thefarmer found herdsmen scarce.In those times it was the custom of the country to spend the night ofChristmas Eve at church, and this occasion for service was looked upon asa very solemn one. But so far was this farm from the church, that theherdsmen, who did not return from their flocks till late in the evening,were unable to go to it on that night until long after the usual time. andas for Hildur, she always remained behind to take care of the house, andalways had so much to do in the way of cleaning the rooms and dealing outthe rations for the servants, that the family used to come home fromchurch and go to bed long before she had finished her work, and was ableto go to bed herself.The more the reports of the death of herdsman after herdsman, on the nightof Christmas Eve, were spread abroad, the greater became the difficultythe farmer found in hiring one, although it was never supposed for aninstant that violence was used towards the men, as no mark had ever beenfound on their bodies. and as, moreover, there was no one to suspect. Atlength the farmer declared that his conscience would no longer let himthus hire men only in order that they might die, so he determined infuture to let luck take care of his sheep, or the sheep take care ofthemselves.Not long after he had made this determination, a bold and hardy lookingman came to him and made him a proffer of his services.The farmer said, "My good friend, I am not in so great need of yourservices as to hire you."Then the man asked him, "Have you, then, taken a herdsman for thiswinter?"The farmer said, "No. for I suppose you know what a terrible fate hashitherto befallen every one I have hired.""I have heard of it," said the other, "but the fear of it shall neithertrouble me nor prevent my keeping your sheep this winter for you, if youwill but make up your mind to take me."But the farmer would not hear of it at first. "For," said he, "it is apity, indeed, that so fine a fellow as you should lose your chance oflife. Begone, if you are wise, and get work elsewhere."Yet still the man declared, again and again, that he cared not a whit forthe terrors of Christmas Eve, and still urged the farmer to hire him.At length the farmer consented, in answer to the man's urgent prayer, totake him as herdsman. and very well they agreed together. For everyone,both high and low, liked the man, as he was honest and open, zealous ineverything he laid his hands to, and willing to do anyone a good turn, ifneed were.On Christmas Eve, towards nightfall, the farmer and all his family went(as has been before declared to be the custom) to church, except Hildur,who remained behind to look after household matters, and the herdsman, whocould not leave his sheep in time. Late in the evening, the latter asusual returned home, and after having eaten his supper, went to bed.As soon as he was well between the sheets, the remembrance struck him ofwhat had befallen fallen all the former herdsmen in his position on thesame evening, and he thought it would be the best plan for him to he awakeand thus to be ready for any accident, though he was mighty littletroubled with fear. Quite late at night, he heard the farmer and hisfamily return from church, enter the house, and having taken supper, go tobed. Still, nothing happened, except that whenever he closed his eyes fora moment, a strange and deadly faintness stole over him, which only actedas one reason the more for his doing his best to keep awake.Shortly after he had become aware of these feelings, he heard someonecreep stealthily up to the side of his bed, and looking through the gloomat the figure, fancied he recognized Hildur the housekeeper. So he feignedto be fast asleep, and felt her place something in his mouth, which heknew instantly to be the bit of a magic bridle, but yet allowed her to fixit on him, without moving. When she had fastened the bridle, she draggedhim from his bed with it, and out of the farmhouse, without his beingeither able or willing to make the least resistance. Then mounting on hisback, she made him rise from the ground as if on wings, and rode himthrough the air, till they arrived at a huge and awful precipice, whichyawned, like a great well, down into the earth.She dismounted at a large stone, and fastening the reins to it, leapedinto the precipice. But the herdsman, objecting strongly to being tied tothis stone all night, and thinking to himself that it would be no badthing to know what became of the woman, tried to escape, bridle and all,from the stone. This he found, however, to be impossible, for as long asthe bit was in his mouth, he was quite powerless to get away. So hemanaged, after a short struggle, to get the bridle off his head, andhaving so done, leapt into the precipice, down which he had seen Hildurdisappear. After sinking for a long, long time, he caught a glimpse ofHildur beneath him, and at last they came to some beautiful green meadows.From all this, the man guessed that Hildur was by no means a commonmortal, as she had before made believe to be, and feared if he were tofollow her along these green fields, and she turn round and catch sight ofhim, he might, not unlikely, pay for his curiosity with his life. So hetook a magic stone which he always carried about him, the nature of whichwas to make him invisible when he held it in his palm, and placing it inthe hollow of his hand, ran after her with all his strength.When they had gone some way along the meadows, a splendid palace rosebefore them, with the way to which Hildur seemed perfectly wellacquainted. At her approach a great crowd of people came forth from thedoors, and saluted Hildur with respect and joy.Foremost of these walked a man of kingly and noble aspect, whosesalutation seemed to be that of a lover or a husband. All the rest bowedto her as if she were their queen. This man was accompanied by twochildren, who ran up to Hildur, calling her mother, and embraced her.After the people had welcomed their queen, they all returned to thepalace, where they dressed her in royal robes, and loaded her hands withcostly rings and bracelets.The herdsman followed the crowd, and posted himself where he would beleast in the way of the company, but where he could catch sight easily ofall that passed, and lose nothing. So gorgeous and dazzling were thehangings of the hall, and the silver and golden vessels on the table, thathe thought he had never, in all his life before, seen the like. not tomention the wonderful dishes and wines which seemed plentiful there, andwhich, only by the look of them, filled his mouth with water, while hewould much rather have filled it with something else.After he had waited a little time, Hildur appeared in the hall, and allthe assembled guests were begged to take their seats, while Hildur sat onher throne beside the king. after which all the people of the court rangedthemselves on each side of the royal couple, and the feast commenced.When it was concluded, the various guests amused themselves, some bydancing, some by singing, others by drinking and revel. but the king andqueen talked together, and seemed to the herdsman to be very sad.While they were thus conversing, three children, younger than those theman had seen before, ran in, and clung round the neck of their mother.Hildur received them with all a mother's love, and, as the youngest wasrestless, put it on the ground and gave it one of her rings to play with.After the little one had played a while with the ring he lost it, and itrolled along the floor towards the herdsman, who, being invisible, pickedit up without being perceived, and put it carefully into his pocket. Ofcourse all search for it by the guests was in vain.When the night was far advanced, Hildur made preparations for departure,at which all the people assembled showed great sorrow, and begged her toremain longer. The herdsman had observed, that in one corner of the hallsat an old and ugly woman, who had neither received the queen with joy norpressed her to stay longer.As soon as the king perceived that Hildur addressed herself to herjourney, and that neither his entreaties nor those of the assembly couldinduce her to stay, he went up to the old woman, and said to her. "Mother,rid us now of thy curse. cause no longer my queen to live apart and afarfrom me. Surely her short and rare visits are more pain to me than joy."The old woman answered him with a wrathful face. "Never will I depart fromwhat I have said. My words shall hold true in all their force, and on nocondition will I abolish my curse."On this the king turned from her, and going up to his wife, entreated herin the fondest and most loving terms not to depart from him.The queen answered, "The infernal power of thy mother's curse forces me togo, and perchance this may be the last time that I shall see thee. Forlying, as I do, under this horrible ban, it is not possible that myconstant murders can remain much longer secret, and then I must suffer thefull penalty of crimes which I have committed against my will."While she was thus speaking the herdsman sped from the palace and acrossthe fields to the precipice, up which he mounted as rapidly as he had comedown, thanks to the magic stone.When he arrived at the rock he put the stone into his pocket, and thebridle over his head again, and awaited the coming of the elf queen. Hehad not long to wait, for very soon afterwards Hildur came up through theabyss, and mounted on his back, and off they flew again to the farmhouse,where Hildur, taking the bridle from his head, placed him again in hisbed, and retired to her own. The herdsman, who by this time was well tiredout, now considered it safe to go to sleep, which he did, so soundly asnot to wake till quite late on Christmas morning. Early that same day thefarmer rose, agitated and filled with the fear that, instead of passingChristmas in joy, he should assuredly, as he so often had before, find hisherdsman dead, and pass it in sorrow and mourning. So he and all the restof the family went to the bedside of the herdsman.When the farmer had looked at him and found him breathing, he praised Godaloud for his mercy in preserving the man from death.Not long afterwards the man himself awoke and got up.Wondering at his strange preservation the farmer asked him how he hadpassed the night, and whether he had seen or heard anything.The man replied, "No. but I have had a very curious dream.""What was it?" asked the farmer.Upon which the man related everything that had passed in the night,circumstance for circumstance, and word for word, as well as he couldremember.When he had finished his story everyone was silent for wonder, exceptHildur, who went up to him and said, "I declare you to be a liar in allthat you have said, unless you can prove it by sure evidence."Not in the least abashed, the herdsman took from his pocket the ring whichhe had picked up on the floor of the hall in Elf Land, and showing it toher said, "Though my dream needs no proof, yet here is one you will notdoubtless deem other than a sure one. for is not this your gold ring,Queen Hildur?"Hildur answered, "It is, no doubt, my ring. Happy man! may you prosper inall you undertake, for you have released me from the awful yoke which mymother in law laid, in her wrath, upon me, and from the curse of a yearlymurder."And then Hildur told them the story of her life as follows:I was born of an obscure family among the elves. Our king fell in lovewith me and married me, in spite of the strong disapproval of his mother.She swore eternal hatred to me in her anger against her son, and said tohim, "Short shall be your joy with this fair wife of yours, for you shallsee her but once a year, and that only at the expense of a murder. This ismy curse upon her, and it shall be carried out to the letter. She shall goand serve in the upper world, this queen, and every Christmas Eve shallride a man, one of her fellow servants, with this magic bridle, to theconfines of Elf Land, where she shall pass a few hours with you, and thenride him back again till his very heart breaks with toil, and his verylife leaves him. Let her thus enjoy her queenship."And this horrible fate was to cling to me. until I should either havethese murders brought home to me, and be condemned to death, or shouldmeet with a gallant man, like this herdsman, who should have nerve andcourage to follow me down into Elf Land, and be able to prove afterwardsthat he had been there with me, and seen the customs of my people.And now I must confess that all the former herdsmen were slain by me, butno penalty shall touch me for their murders, as I committed them againstmy will.And as for you, O courageous man, who have dared, the first of humanbeings, to explore the realms of Elf Land, and have freed me from the yokeof this awful curse, I will reward you in times to come, but not now.A deep longing for my home and my loved ones impels me hence. Farewell!With these words Hildur vanished from the sight of the astonished people,and was never seen again. But our friend the herdsman, leaving the serviceof the farmer, built a farm for himself, and prospered, and became one ofthe chief men in the country, and always ascribed, with grateful thanks,his prosperity to Hildur, Queen of the Elves.