Once upon a time there was a peasant who had a great deal of money butvery little understanding. He was just plain stupid. He had no children,but he did have a wife, an ox, and a donkey.This peasant had heard a lot said about the university, and that onecould learn a lot there, so he became more and more curious about it. Oneday he was talking about it with a joker, who said, "What people have toldyou about the university is nothing. Did you know that there they can makeeducated people out of dumb animals?""You don't say so!" said the peasant. "I'm going to give that a try. Myox is so smart that when I say 'gideeup' to my donkey, he starts to walkas well."So the peasant went to Leiden with his ox. He rang at the university,and a student came to him, asking him what he wanted."I would like to speak with the professor," said the peasant, "for myox is going to go to the university.""Oh," said the student, "then just come along with me." Of course hedid not take the peasant to a professor, but rather to one of his fellowstudents. After the peasant had explained why he was there, the studentsaid it was good, and that he would be able to leave the ox there. Thenthey spoke about the tuition charges, and to start, the peasant had to payseventy guilders. He thought that was expensive, but he paid itnonetheless, and left his ox in Leiden.A month later the peasant thought, "I really must go now and see how mystudent is doing," and he set forth on his way.To be sure, the ox was not at home. "He just went to a lecture," saidthe student. "But it is good that you came, because more money is due."The peasant paid and went home again. Every time that he came he receivedthe same message, and he had to pay. He was told that the ox was learningwell.This continued for about a year and a half, and it began to trouble thepeasant that he always had to pay but was never able to see his animal. Hebecame angry and said that he wanted to take back his ox."Didn't he write to you that he is just beginning his examinations?"said the student. "He will pass them, but it all costs money.""Well," said the peasant, "in that case I'll pay another hundredguilders. But this is the very last time!"After again hearing nothing, the peasant one day went to Leiden withthe firm resolve to take the ox home with him. When he told the studenthis intentions, the latter said to him, "I don't understand! Didn't hewrite to you? He passed his examinations with honors and now has a verygood position. He is the mayor of Amsterdam.""That was inconsiderate of him not to write to me," said the peasant."But I'll get hold of him!"So he went to Amsterdam. At that time, as it happened, there was amayor there whose name was Ox. The student, of course, knew this.The peasant rang at his door and asked if the mayor was at home. "Yes,"replied his servant. "What do you want?"The peasant explained that he was the mayor's owner, and had come totake him away. The servant did not understand this at all and thought hewas dealing with a lunatic. The peasant persisted, and the two begancursing one another. Then the mayor happened by, and he told the servantto calm himself down. He invited the peasant to come in and say what hehad to say.He told the entire story about the ox and the university. But it wastoo much for the mayor when the peasant said in conclusion, "Now I'm goingto put a halter on you so my wife can get a look at you as well." And themayor had him thrown out the door.So the peasant went away unsatisfied. Arriving home, he said to hiswife, "Yes, it is true that they really can do things there in Leiden, forthey made an educated man out of our ox. But there is not much in it forus."