'Mother, I have seen such a wonderful man,' said a little boy one day,as he entered a hut in Lapland, bearing in his arms the bundle ofsticks he had been sent out to gather.'Have you, my son. and what was he like?' asked the mother, as she tookoff the child's sheepskin coat and shook it on the doorstep.'Well, I was tired of stooping for the sticks, and was leaning againsta tree to rest, when I heard a noise of 'sh 'sh, among the dead leaves.I thought perhaps it was a wolf, so I stood very still. But soonthere came past a tall man oh! twice as tall as father with a longred beard and a red tunic fastened with a silver girdle, from whichhung a silver handled knife. Behind him followed a great dog, whichlooked stronger than any wolf, or even a bear. But why are you sopale, mother?''It was the Stalo,' replied she, her voice trembling. 'Stalo theman eater! You did well to hide, or you might never had come back.But, remember that, though he is so tall and strong, he is very stupid,and many a Lapp has escaped from his clutches by playing him someclever trick.'Not long after the mother and son had held this talk, it began to bewhispered in the forest that the children of an old man called Pattohad vanished one by one, no one knew whither. The unhappy fathersearched the country for miles round without being able to find as muchas a shoe or a handkerchief, to show him where they had passed, but atlength a little boy came with news that he had seen the Stalo hidingbehind a well, near which the children used to play. The boy hadwaited behind a clump of bushes to see what would happen, and by and byhe noticed that the Stalo had laid a cunning trap in the path to thewell, and that anybody who fell over it would roll into the water anddrown there.And, as he watched, Patto's youngest daughter ran gaily down the path,till her foot caught in the strings that were stretched across thesteepest place. She slipped and fell, and in another instant hadrolled into the water within reach of the Stalo.As soon as Patto heard this tale his heart was filled with rage, and hevowed to have his revenge. So he straightway took an old fur coat fromthe hook where it hung, and putting it on went out into the forest.When he reached the path that led to the well he looked hastily roundto be sure that no one was watching him, then laid himself down as ifhe had been caught in the snare and had rolled into the well, though hetook care to keep his head out of the water.Very soon he heard a 'sh 'sh of the leaves, and there was the Stalopushing his way through the undergrowth to see what chance he had of adinner. At the first glimpse of Patto's head in the well he laughedloudly, crying:'Ha! ha! This time it is the old ass! I wonder how he will taste?' Anddrawing Patto out of the well, he flung him across his shoulders andcarried him home. Then he tied a cord round him and hung him over thefire to roast, while he finished a box that he was making before thedoor of the hut, which he meant to hold Patto's flesh when it wascooked. In a very short time the box was so nearly done that it onlywanted a little more chipping out with an axe. but this part of thework was easier accomplished indoors, and he called to one of his sonswho were lounging inside to bring him the tool.The young man looked everywhere, but he could not find the axe, for thevery good reason that Patto had managed to pick it up and hide it inhis clothes.'Stupid fellow! what is the use of you?' grumbled his father angrily.and he bade first one and then another of his sons to fetch him thetool, but they had no better success than their brother.'I must come myself, I suppose!' said Stalo, putting aside the box.But, meanwhile, Patto had slipped from the hook and concealed himselfbehind the door, so that, as Stalo stepped in, his prisoner raised theaxe, and with one blow the ogre's head was rolling on the ground. Hissons were so frightened at the sight that they all ran away.And in this manner Patto avenged his dead children.But though Stalo was dead, his three sons were still living, and notvery far off either. They had gone to their mother, who was tendingsome reindeer on the pastures, and told her that by some magic, theyknew not what, their father's head had rolled from his body, and theyhad been so afraid that something dreadful would happen to them thatthey had come to take refuge with her. The ogress said nothing. Longago she had found out how stupid her sons were, so she just sent themout to milk the reindeer, while she returned to the other house to buryher husband's body.Now, three days' journey from the hut on the pastures two brothersSodno dwelt in a small cottage with their sister Lyma, who tended alarge herd of reindeer while they were out hunting. Of late it hadbeen whispered from one to another that the three young Stalos were tobe seen on the pastures, but the Sodno brothers did not disturbthemselves, the danger seemed too far away.Unluckily, however, one day, when Lyma was left by herself in the hut,the three Stalos came down and carried her and the reindeer off totheir own cottage. The country was very lonely, and perhaps no onewould have known in which direction she had gone had not the girlmanaged to tie a ball of thread to the handle of a door at the back ofthe cottage and let it trail behind her. Of course the ball was notlong enough to go all the way, but it lay on the edge of a snowy trackwhich led straight to the Stalos' house.When the brothers returned from their hunting they found both the hutand the sheds empty. Loudly they cried: 'Lyma! Lyma!' But no voiceanswered them. and they fell to searching all about, lest perchancetheir sister might have dropped some clue to guide them. At lengththeir eyes dropped on the thread which lay on the snow, and they setout to follow it.On and on they went, and when at length the thread stopped the brothersknew that another day's journey would bring them to the Stalos'dwelling. Of course they did not dare to approach it openly, for theStalos had the strength of giants, and besides, there were three ofthem. so the two Sodnos climbed into a big bushy tree which overhung awell.'Perhaps our sister may be sent to draw water here,' they said to eachother.But it was not till the moon had risen that the sister came, and as shelet down her bucket into the well, the leaves seemed to whisper 'Lyma!Lyma!'The girl started and looked up, but could see nothing, and in a momentthe voice came again.'Be careful take no notice, fill your buckets, but listen carefullyall the while, and we will tell you what to do so that you may escapeyourself and set free the reindeer also.'So Lyman bent over the well lower than before, and seemed busier thanever.'You know,' said her brother, 'that when a Stalo finds that anythinghas been dropped into his food he will not eat a morsel, but throws itto his dogs. Now, after the pot has been hanging some time over thefire, and the broth is nearly cooked, just rake up the log of wood sothat some of the ashes fly into the pot. The Stalo will soon noticethis, and will call you to give all the food to the dogs. but, instead,you must bring it straight to us, as it is three days since we haveeaten or drunk. That is all you need do for the present.'Then Lyma took up her buckets and carried them into the house, and didas her brothers had told her. They were so hungry that they ate thefood up greedily without speaking, but when there was nothing left inthe pot, the eldest one said:'Listen carefully to what I have to tell you. After the eldest Stalohas cooked and eaten a fresh supper, he will go to bed and sleep sosoundly that not even a witch could wake him. You can hear him snoringa mile off, and then you must go into his room and pull off the ironmantle that covers him, and put it on the fire till it is almost redhot. When that is done, come to us and we will give you furtherdirections.''I will obey you in everything, dear brothers,' answered Lyman. and soshe did.It had happened that on this very evening the Stalos had driven in someof the reindeer from the pasture, and had tied them up to the wall ofthe house so that they might be handy to kill for next day's dinner.The two Sodnos had seen what they were doing, and where the beasts weresecured. so, at midnight, when all was still, they crept down fromtheir tree and seized the reindeer by the horns which were lockedtogether. The animals were frightened, and began to neigh and kick, asif they were fighting together, and the noise became so great that eventhe eldest Stalo was awakened by it, and that was a thing which hadnever occurred before. Raising himself in his bed, he called to hisyoungest brother to go out and separate the reindeer or they wouldcertainly kill themselves.The young Stalo did as he was bid, and left the house. but no soonerwas he out of the door than he was stabbed to the heart by one of theSodnos, and fell without a groan. Then they went back to worry thereindeer, and the noise became as great as ever, and a second time theStalo awoke.'The boy does not seem to be able to part the beasts,' he cried to hissecond brother. 'go and help him, or I shall never get to sleep.' Sothe brother went, and in an instant was struck dead as he left thehouse by the sword of the eldest Sodno. The Stalo waited in bed alittle longer for things to get quiet, but as the clatter of thereindeer's horns was as bad as ever, he rose angrily from his bedmuttering to himself:'It is extraordinary that they cannot unlock themselves. but as no oneelse seems able to help them I suppose I must go and do it.'Rubbing his eyes, he stood up on the floor and stretched his great armsand gave a yawn which shook the walls. The Sodnos heard it below, andposted themselves, one at the big door and one at the little door atthe back, for they did not know what their enemy would come out at.The Stalo put out his hand to take his iron mantle from the bed, whereit always lay, but the mantle was no there. He wondered where it couldbe, and who could have moved it, and after searching through all therooms, he found it hanging over the kitchen fire. But the first touchburnt him so badly that he let it alone, and went with nothing, excepta stick in his hand, through the back door.The young Sodno was standing ready for him, and as the Stalo passed thethreshold struck him such a blow on the head that he rolled over with acrash and never stirred again. The two Sodnos did not trouble abouthim, but quickly stripped the younger Stalos of their clothes, in whichthey dressed themselves. Then they sat still till the dawn shouldbreak and they could find out from the Stalos' mother where thetreasure was hidden.With the first rays of the sun the young Sodno went upstairs andentered the old woman's room. She was already up and dressed, andsitting by the window knitting, and the young man crept in softly andcrouched down on the floor, laying his head on her lap. For a while hekept silence, then he whispered gently:'Tell me, dear mother, where did my eldest brother conceal his riches?''What a strange question! Surely you must know,' answered she.'No, I have forgotten. my memory is so bad.''He dug a hole under the doorstep and placed it there,' said she. Andthere was another pause.By and by the Sodno asked again:'And where may my second brother's money be?''Don't you know that either?' cried the mother in surprise.'Oh, yes. I did once. But since I fell upon my head I can remembernothing.''It is behind the oven,' answered she. And again was silence.'Mother, dear mother,' said the young man at last, 'I am almost afraidto ask you. but I really have grown so stupid of late. Where did Ihide my own money?'But at this question the old woman flew into a passion, and vowed thatif she could find a rod she would bring his memory back to him.Luckily, no rod was within her reach, and the Sodno managed, after alittle, to coax her back into good humour, and at length she told himthat the youngest Stalo had buried his treasure under the very placewhere she was sitting.'Dear mother,' said Lyman, who had come in unseen, and was kneeling infront of the fire. 'Dear mother, do you know who it is you have beentalking with?'The old woman started, but answered quietly:'It is a Sodno, I suppose?''You have guessed right,' replied Lyma.The mother of the Stalos looked round for her iron cane, which shealways used to kill her victims, but it was not there, for Lyma had putit in the fire.'Where is my iron cane?' asked the old woman.'There!' answered Lyma, pointing to the flames.The old woman sprang forwards and seized it, but her clothes caughtfire, and in a few minutes she was burned to ashes.So the Sodno brothers found the treasure, and they carried it, andtheir sister and the reindeer, to their own home, and were the richestmen in all Lapland.