Once upon a time there lived a king and queen who longed to have a son.As none came, one day they made a vow at the shrine of St. James thatif their prayers were granted the boy should set out on a pilgrimage assoon as he had passed his eighteenth birthday. And fancy their delightwhen one evening the king returned home from hunting and saw a babylying in the cradle.All the people came crowding round to peep at it, and declared it wasthe most beautiful baby that ever was seen. Of course that is what theyalways say, but this time it happened to be true. And every day the boygrew bigger and stronger till he was twelve years old, when the kingdied, and he was left alone to take care of his mother.In this way six years passed by, and his eighteenth birthday drew near.When she thought of this the queen's heart sank within her, for he wasthe light of her eyes' and how was she to send him forth to the unknowndangers that beset a pilgrim? So day by day she grew more and moresorrowful, and when she was alone wept bitterly.Now the queen imagined that no one but herself knew how sad she was, butone morning her son said to her, 'Mother, why do you cry the whole daylong?''Nothing, nothing, my son. there is only one thing in the world thattroubles me.''What is that one thing?' asked he. 'Are you afraid your property isbadly managed? Let me go and look into the matter.'This pleased the queen, and he rode off to the plain country, where hismother owned great estates. but everything was in beautiful order, andhe returned with a joyful heart, and said, 'Now, mother, you can behappy again, for your lands are better managed than anyone else's I haveseen. The cattle are thriving. the fields are thick with corn, and soonthey will be ripe for harvest.''That is good news indeed,' answered she. but it did not seem to makeany difference to her, and the next morning she was weeping and wailingas loudly as ever.'Dear mother,' said her son in despair, 'if you will not tell me what isthe cause of all this misery I shall leave home and wander far throughthe world.''Ah, my son, my son,' cried the queen, 'it is the thought that I mustpart from you which causes me such grief. for before you were born wevowed a vow to St. James that when your eighteenth birthday was passedyou should make a pilgrimage to his shrine, and very soon you will beeighteen, and I shall lose you. And for a whole year my eyes will neverbe gladdened by the sight of you, for the shrine is far away.''Will it take no longer than that to reach it?' said he. 'Oh, don't beso wretched. it is only dead people who never return. As long as I amalive you may be sure I will come back to you.'After this manner he comforted his mother, and on his eighteenthbirthday his best horse was led to the door of the palace, and he tookleave of the queen in these words, 'Dear mother, farewell, and by thehelp of fate I shall return to you as soon as I can.'The queen burst into tears and wept sore. then amidst her sobs she drewthree apples from her pocket and held them out, saying, 'My son, takethese apples and give heed unto my words. You will need a companion inthe long journey on which you are going. If you come across a young manwho pleases you beg him to accompany you, and when you get to an inninvite him to have dinner with you. After you have eaten cut one ofthese apples in two unequal parts, and ask him to take one. If he takesthe larger bit, then part from him, for he is no true friend to you. Butif he takes the smaller bit treat him as your brother, and share withhim all you have.' Then she kissed her son once more, and blessed him,and let him go.The young man rode a long way without meeting a single creature, but atlast he saw a youth in the distance about the same age as himself, andhe spurred his horse till he came up with the stranger, who stopped andasked:'Where are you going, my fine fellow?''I am making a pilgrimage to the shrine of St. James, for before I wasborn my mother vowed that I should go forth with a thank offering on myeighteenth birthday.''That is my case too,' said the stranger, 'and, as we must both travelin the same direction, let us bear each other company.'The young man agreed to this proposal, but he took care not to get onterms of familiarity with the new comer until he had tried him with theapple.By and by they reached an inn, and at sight of it the king's son said,'I am very hungry. Let us enter and order something to eat.' The otherconsented, and they were soon sitting before a good dinner.When they had finished the king's son drew an apple from his pocket,and cut it into a big half and a little half, and offered both to thestranger, who took the biggest bit. 'You are no friend of mine,' thoughtthe king's son, and in order to part company with him he pretended to beill and declared himself unable to proceed on his journey.'Well, I can't wait for you,' replied the other. 'I am in haste to pushon, so farewell.''Farewell,' said the king's son, glad in his heart to get rid of him soeasily. The king's son remained in the inn for some time, so as to letthe young man have a good start. them he ordered his horse and rodeafter him. But he was very sociable and the way seemed long and dull byhimself. 'Oh, if I could only meet with a true friend,' he thought, 'sothat I should have some one to speak to. I hate being alone.'Soon after he came up with a young man, who stopped and asked him,'Where are you going, my fine fellow?' The king's son explained theobject of his journey, and the young man answered, as the other haddone, that he also was fulfilling the vow of his mother made at hisbirth.'Well, we can ride on together,' said the king's son, and the roadseemed much shorter now that he had some one to talk to.At length they reached an inn, and the king's son exclaimed, 'I am veryhungry. let us go in and get something to eat.'When they had finished the king's son drew an apple out of his pocketand cut it in two. he held the big bit and the little bit out to hiscompanion, who took the big bit at once and soon ate it up. 'You are nofriend of mine,' thought the king's son, and began to declare he felt soill he could not continue his journey. When he had given the young man agood start he set off himself, but the way seemed even longer and dullerthan before. 'Oh, if I could only meet with a true friend he should beas a brother to me,' he sighed sadly. and as the thought passed throughhis mind, he noticed a youth going the same road as himself.The youth came up to him and said, 'Which way are you going, my finefellow?' And for the third time the king's son explained all about hismother's vow. Why, that is just like me,' cried the youth.'Then let us ride on together,' answered the king's son.Now the miles seemed to slip by, for the new comer was so lively andentertaining that the king's son could not help hoping that he indeedmight prove to be the true friend.More quickly than he could have thought possible they reached an inn bythe road side, and turning to his companion the king's son said, 'I amhungry. let us go in and have something to eat.' So they went in andordered dinner, and when they had finished the king's son drew out ofhis pocket the last apple, and cut it into two unequal parts, and heldboth out to the stranger. And the stranger took the little piece, andthe heart of the king's son was glad within him, for at last he hadfound the friend he had been looking for. 'Good youth,' he cried, 'wewill be brothers, and what is mine shall be thine, and what is thineshall be mine. And together we will push on to the shrine, and if oneof us dies on the road the other shall carry his body there.' And thestranger agreed to all he said, and they rode forward together.It took them a whole year to reach the shrine, and they passed throughmany different lands on their way. One day they arrived tired andhalf starved in a big city, and said to one another, 'Let us stay herefor a little and rest before we set forth again.' So they hired a smallhouse close to the royal castle, and took up their abode there.The following morning the king of the country happened to step on to hisbalcony, and saw the young men in the garden, and said to himself, 'Dearme, those are wonderfully handsome youths. but one is handsomer thanthe other, and to him will I give my daughter to wife.' and indeed theking's son excelled his friend in beauty.In order to set about his plan the king asked both the young men todinner, and when they arrived at the castle he received them with theutmost kindness, and sent for his daughter, who was more lovely thanboth the sun and moon put together. But at bed time the king caused theother young man to be given a poisoned drink, which killed him in a fewminutes, for he thought to himself, 'If his friend dies the other willforget his pilgrimage, and will stay here and marry my daughter.'When the king's son awoke the next morning he inquired of the servantswhere his friend had gone, as he did not see him. 'He died suddenly lastnight,' said they, 'and is to be buried immediately.'But the king's son sprang up, and cried, 'If my friend is dead I canstay here no longer, and cannot linger an hour in this house.''Oh, give up your journey and remain here,' exclaimed the king, 'and youshall have my daughter for your wife.' 'No,' answered the king's son,'I cannot stay. but, I pray you, grant my request, and give me a goodhorse, and let me go in peace, and when I have fulfilled my vow then Iwill return and marry your daughter.'So the king, seeing no words would move him, ordered a horse to bebrought round, and the king's son mounted it, and took his dead friendbefore him on the saddle, and rode away.Now the young man was not really dead, but only in a deep sleep.When the king's son reached the shrine of St. James he got down from hishorse, took his friend in his arms as if he had been a child, and laidhim before the altar. 'St. James,' he said, 'I have fulfilled the vow myparents made for me. I have come myself to your shrine, and have broughtmy friend. I place him in your hands. Restore him to life, I pray, forthough he be dead yet has he fulfilled his vow also.' And, behold! whilehe yet prayed his friend got up and stood before him as well as ever.And both the young men gave thanks, and set their faces towards home.When they arrived at the town where the king dwelt they entered thesmall house over against the castle. The news of their coming spreadvery soon, and the king rejoiced greatly that the handsome young princehad come back again, and commanded great feasts to be prepared, for in afew days his daughter should marry the king's son. The young man himselfcould imagine no greater happiness, and when the marriage was over theyspent some months at the court making merry.At length the king's son said, 'My mother awaits me at home, full ofcare and anxiety. Here I must remain no longer, and to morrow I willtake my wife and my friend and start for home.' And the king was contentthat he should do so, and gave orders to prepare for their journey.Now in his heart the king cherished a deadly hate towards the poor youngman whom he had tried to kill, but who had returned to him living, andin order to do him hurt sent him on a message to some distant spot. 'Seethat you are quick,' said he, 'for your friend will await your returnbefore he starts.' The youth put spurs to his horse and departed,bidding the prince farewell, so that the king's message might bedelivered the sooner. As soon as he had started the king went tothe chamber of the prince, and said to him, 'If you do not startimmediately, you will never reach the place where you must camp for thenight.''I cannot start without my friend,' replied the king's son.'Oh, he will be back in an hour,' replied the king, 'and I will give himmy best horse, so that he will be sure to catch you up.' The king's sonallowed himself to be persuaded and took leave of his father in law, andset out with his wife on his journey home.Meanwhile the poor friend had been unable to get through his task in theshort time appointed by the king, and when at last he returned the kingsaid to him,'Your comrade is a long way off by now. you had better see if you canovertake him.'So the young man bowed and left the king's presence, and followed afterhis friend on foot, for he had no horse. Night and day he ran, till atlength he reached the place where the king's son had pitched his tent,and sank down before him, a miserable object, worn out and covered withmud and dust. But the king's son welcomed him with joy, and tended himas he would his brother.And at last they came home again, and the queen was waiting and watchingin the palace, as she had never ceased to do since her son had rodeaway. She almost died of joy at seeing him again, but after a little sheremembered his sick friend, and ordered a bed to be made ready and thebest doctors in all the country to be sent for. When they heard of thequeen's summons they flocked from all parts, but none could cure him.After everyone had tried and failed a servant entered and informed thequeen that a strange old man had just knocked at the palace gate anddeclared that he was able to heal the dying youth. Now this was a holyman, who had heard of the trouble the king's son was in, and had come tohelp.It happened that at this very time a little daughter was born to theking's son, but in his distress for his friend he had hardly a thoughtto spare for the baby. He could not be prevailed on to leave the sickbed, and he was bending over it when the holy man entered the room. 'Doyou wish your friend to be cured?' asked the new comer of the king'sson. 'And what price would you pay?''What price?' answered the king's son. 'only tell me what I can do toheal him.''Listen to me, then,' said the old man. 'This evening you must take yourchild, and open her veins, and smear the wounds of your friend with herblood. And you will see, he will get well in an instant.'At these words the king's son shrieked with horror, for he loved thebaby dearly, but he answered, 'I have sworn that I would treat my friendas if he were my brother, and if there is no other way my child must besacrificed.'As by this time evening had already fallen he took the child and openedits veins, and smeared the blood over the wounds of the sick man, andthe look of death departed from him, and he grew strong and rosy oncemore. But the little child lay as white and still as if she had beendead. They laid her in the cradle and wept bitterly, for they thoughtthat by the next morning she would be lost to them.At sunrise the old man returned and asked after the sick man.'He is as well as ever,' answered the king's son.'And where is your baby?''In the cradle yonder, and I think she is dead,' replied the fathersadly.'Look at her once more,' said the holy man, and as they drew near thecradle there lay the baby smiling up at them.'I am St. James of Lizia,' said the old man, 'and I have come to helpyou, for I have seen that you are a true friend. From henceforward livehappily, all of you, together, and if troubles should draw near you sendfor me, and I will aid you to get through them.'With these words he lifted his hand in blessing and vanished.And they obeyed him, and were happy and content, and tried to make thepeople of the land happy and contented too.