Under the shelter of a low hill, on the edge of a great forest, there stood a wretched hovel, wherein lived a poor shoemaker   a proper old reprobate!He was as irritable and angry as a demon, and the hussy that he had was just as bad. They lived together like a dog and a cat, as I trow, with constant rows from morning to evening.The hussy was only a little more than half witted   "as wise as seven fools," as they say   and therewithal she was so disgusting and filthy that if a man had thrown her against a wall, she would have stuck to it, and stayed there, hanging.Lately she had got a taste for brandywine, which didn't do much for their domestic life, because when the man sat at his workbench hurling insults and abuse at her, as was his wont, the drunken wench sang ever louder and wilder the worse he scolded. Yea, they led a wretched life!One morning the shoemaker told his hussy: "Listen, Mother Salke, today the hemp shall be pulled, and thou shalt do it!"Sure, that she would. She made a few turns with the broom across the floor, then the house was swept, and when she had turned the eiderdown, the bed was made, and then she left. However, she first took the flask of brandywine and slipped it in her pocket.When she came out to the hemp patch, she took off the skirt in which the flask was, and began to pull the hemp. It was terribly hot that day, and when she had worked a good while, she thought she was missing something, but she couldn't work out what it was. She therefore set to again, but when she had worked a while longer, a little bird, a wheatear, alighted on a fence beside her, and sang out, as was its wont: Trik trik trik!"Faith, to be sure," said the hussy, "'twas a drink ( Drik ) that I was missing. The little bird knew it. Where's my flask now?"She found the flask and took a good swig of it."Sure, how hot it is on this good Sunday!" exclaimed the hussy, and she took another swig."So that I do not forget again the remedy for what ails me, I'd better take it all while I'm about it!" she said, and drained the flask completely.She gave herself to the task again, but soon thereafter she became heavy in the head, and collapsed in the hemp patch and slept like a stone.Back at the house, the shoemaker wondered that she did not come home for dinner, as she did not usually forget, and he had made such a delicious barley meal porridge for them to have   it was the only thing he knew how to make! When some time had passed, and she still hadn't come, he thought he must go out and see how far she had got with the hemp. He hobbled out to the hemp patch, and then he found her where she lay, fast asleep."Thou jade!" said the shoemaker, "I wish the crows would fly off with thee, rather today than tomorrow!"He shook her, but she couldn't be woken. she slept as if she'd been hired to sleep for a whole week.Then the shoemaker became so angry that he ripped the lower half of her clothing off her, and then he ran home, fetched the shoe brush and blackened her, to give her a fright, and he left her lying there like that.Late in the afternoon the hussy awoke, with her head completely in a daze, because of both the brandywine and the strong smell of hemp. She rubbed her eyes and stared in horror at herself, half naked and black as she was."What the Devil is this!" she exclaimed. "Is this myself, or is it not myself lying here? Faith and begob, it can't be myself, for I wasn't half naked, and to be sure I'm not after being black."She thought then that it couldn't be herself, but that it must be someone else. She wanted to be sure of her case, however, and therefore she staggered homeward, back to the cabin.When she came near the low hill under whose shelter the house lay, she said: "Now I must take heed whether the cat is sitting on the door step. for if it is sitting there, then the shoemaker's wife is most likely not at home"   she was always kicking it   "and then it may be that I am she. but if the cat's not sitting there, then most likely she is at home, and I must be someone else."No, the cat was not sitting on the door step, and so she thought that she was probably not the shoemaker's wife after all.She then caught sight of the shoemaker, who was sitting inside the window, pulling on the waxed thread."He looks as evil as the crucifixion today!" she thought. "If I'm going to find out whether the shoemaker's wife is at home or not, I shall have to ask him very nicely. That way I'll find out, because he will probably give me a civil answer."So she went to the window and asked ever so politely if the shoemaker's wife was at home."Aye, that she is," replied the shoemaker. "she's sitting by the hearth, eating bread and dripping!"Well, then she knew that she was not the shoemaker's wife, and she said goodbye and thanked him for the good explanation.She kept on walking, wondering continually who she could be.Thus she entered a road, where she met with a certain pack of ruffians, who wandered in the hours of darkness and had no homes.They asked her who she was, and why she looked so queer   more like a troll than a human being."Sure, you tell me," she replied, "and I'll tell you!" So they asked her if she would join their band. Yea, she was all for that, and thought that she'd found a good place.Late at night they reached a village, where they thought there might be a good opportunity to steal something. They sneaked around between the houses until they found a place where a hatch down to the cellar was open, and they could smell that there were cheeses down there.Now they discussed which of them should go down and toss the cheeses up to the others, and soon they agreed that she, the black wench who had come to them on the country road, should do so.They got her and put her down through the hatch, telling her only to take the new and soft cheeses, but to leave the old and hard. Sure, she would take care of that.When they had got a whole lot up and soon had the sack full, the hussy down below shouted, so loudly that it echoed: "Now there are no more of the soft cheeses, but if you want some of the hard ones, can you tell me?""Shut up, bitch!" they replied, but she did not hear them and thought they had not heard her, and so she shouted even louder: "Now there are no more of the soft cheeses, but if you want some of the hard ones, can you tell me?"At that, the ruffians hurried away with what they had, and left her standing down there shouting.The man in the house woke up to all that noise, and he grabbed the swipple of a flail, and came down with a lantern to the cellar, where he found the hussy, still standing there and shouting.He asked her how she had got there."To be sure, that I can tell thee, darling," she replied. "there were some good lads with whom I came in fellowship, and they helped me to get down here."The man wanted to know what she meant to do there."Sure, that was to do with those same good lads," she said. "They're awful fond of soft cheeses, and so I'm after throwing a whole sackful of cheeses up to them. but now there are no more of the soft cheeses, begob, and I'm asking if they want some of the hard."But the man did not like that explanation at all. he grabbed hold of her and bashed her with his swipple. Then he locked her in the stable, where he let her lie until the next morning.All the men of the village were called together to decide what to do with her.The council leader had her brought before him and asked: "Who art thou and whence art thou come?""Sure, you tell me, and I'll tell you!" she replied. "I thought I was the shoemaker's hussy, but I'm not, for she was sitting at home by the hearth eating bread and dripping.""Well, what shall we do with her?" said the men of the council, looking at each other in uncertainty."I'll tell you what, men," said the smith, who came forward at once, "I need a scarecrow over yonder in my hemp patch. she might be good for that."So the smith got her, and he set her up in the middle of his hemp patch, and if she hasn't flown off with the crows, she may well be standing there even now.