The pause is an exceedingly important feat ure in any kind of story, and a frequently re curring feature, too. It is a dainty thing, and delicate, and also uncertain and treacherous. for it must be exactly the right length   no more and no less   or it fails of its purpose and makes trouble. If the pause is too short the impressive point is passed, and the audience have had time to divine that a surprise is in tended   and then you can't surprise them, of course.On the platform I used to tell a negro ghost story that had a pause in front of the snapper on the end, and that pause was the most im portant thing in the whole story. If I got it the right length precisely, I could spring the finishing ejaculation with effect enough to make some impressible girl deliver a startled little yelp and jump out of her seat   and that was what I was after. This story was called " The Golden Arm," and was told in this fash ion. You can practise with it yourself   and mind you look out for the pause and get it right.Once 'pon a time dey wuz a monsus mean man, en he live 'way out in de prairie all 'lone by hisself, 'cep'n he had a wife. En bimeby she died, en he tuck en toted her way out dah in de prairie en buried her. Well, she had a golden arm   all solid gold, fum de shoulder down. He wuz pow'ful mean   pow'ful. en dat night he couldn't sleep, caze he want dat golden arm so bad.When it come midnight he couldn't stan' it no mo'. so he git up, he did, en tuck his lantern en shoved out thoo de storm en dug her up en got de golden arm. en he bent his head down 'gin de win', en plowed en plowed en plowed thoo de snow. Den all on a sudden he stop (make a considerable pause here, and look startled, and take a listening attitude) en say: "My lan', what's dat!"En he listen   en listen   en de win' say (set your teeth together and imitate the wailing and wheezing singsong of the wind), "Bzzz z zzz"   en den, way back yonder whah de grave is, he hear a voice!   he hear a voice all mix' up in de win'   can't hardly tell 'em 'part   "Bzzz zzz   W h o   g o t   m y   g o l d e n arm?   zzz   zzz   W h o g o t m y g o l d e n arm? (You must begin to shiver violently now.)En he begin to shiver en shake, en say, "Oh, my! Oh, my lan'!" en de win' blow de lantern out, en de snow en sleet blow in his face en mos' choke him, en he start a plowin' knee deep towards home mos' dead, he so sk'yerd   en pooty soon he hear de voice agin, en (pause) it 'us comin' after him! "Bzzz   zzz   zzz   W h o   g o t   m y   g o l d e n   arm? "When he git to de pasture he hear it agin   closter now, en a  comin!   a comin' back dah in de dark en de storm   (repeat the wind and the voice). When he git to de house he rush up stairs en jump in de bed en kiver up, head and years, en lay dah shiverin' en shakin'   en den way out dah he hear it agin!   en a  comin! En bimeby he hear (pause   awed, listening attitude)   pat   pat   pat   hit's a  comin' up stairs! Den he hear de latch, en he know it's in de room!Den pooty soon he know it's a  stannin' by de bed! (Pause.) Den   he know it's a  bendin down over him   en he cain't skasely git his breath! Den   den   he seem to feel someth'n c o l d , right down 'most agin his head ! (Pause.)Den de voice say, right at his year   " W h o   g o t   m y   g o l d e n arm? " "(You must wail it out very plaintively and accusingly. then you stare steadily and impressively into the face of the farthest gone auditor   a girl, preferably   and let that awe inspiring pause begin to build itself in the deep hush. When it has reached exactly the right length, jump suddenly at that girl and yell, "You've got it!"If you've got the pause right, she'll fetch a dear little yelp and spring right out of her shoes. But you must get the pause right. and you will find it the most troublesome and aggravating and uncertain thing you ever undertook.)