A little back from the high road there stands a house which is called'Hemgard.' Perhaps you remember the two beautiful mountain ash trees bythe reddish brown palings, and the high gate, and the garden with thebeautiful barberry bushes which are always the first to become grownin spring, and which in summer are weighed down with their beautifulberries.Behind the garden there is a hedge with tall aspens which rustle in themorning wind, behind the hedge is a road, behind the road is a wood, andbehind the wood the wide world.But on the other side of the garden there is a lake, and beyond the lakeis a village, and all around stretch meadows and fields, now yellow, nowgreen.In the pretty house, which has white window frames, a neat porch andclean steps, which are always strewn with finely cut juniper leaves,Walter's parents live. His brother Frederick, his sister Lotta, oldLena, Jonah, Caro and Bravo, Putte and Murre, and Kuckeliku.Caro lives in the dog house, Bravo in the stable, Putte with thestableman, Murre a little here and a little there, and Kuckeliku livesin the hen house, that is his kingdom.Walter is six years old, and he must soon begin to go to school.He cannot read yet, but he can do many other things. He can turncartwheels, stand on his head, ride see saw, throw snowballs, play ball,crow like a cock, eat bread and butter and drink sour milk, tear histrousers, wear holes in his elbows, break the crockery in pieces, throwballs through the windowpanes, draw old men on important papers, walkover the flower beds, eat himself sick with gooseberries, and be wellafter a whipping. For the rest he has a good heart but a bad memory,and forgets his father's and his mother's admonitions, and so often getsinto trouble and meets with adventures, as you shall hear, but first ofall I must tell you how brave he was and how he hunted wolves.Once in the spring, a little before Midsummer, Walter heard that therewere a great many wolves in the wood, and that pleased him. He waswonderfully brave when he was in the midst of his companions or at homewith his brothers and sister, then he used often to say 'One wolf isnothing, there ought to be at least four.'When he wrestled with Klas Bogenstrom or Frithiof Waderfelt and struckthem in the back, he would say 'That is what I shall do to a wolf!' andwhen he shot arrows at Jonas and they rattled against his sheepskin coathe would say: 'That is how I should shoot you if you were a wolf!'Indeed, some thought that the brave boy boasted a little. but one mustindeed believe him since he said so himself. So Jonas and Lena used tosay of him 'Look, there goes Walter, who shoots the wolves.' And otherboys and girls would say 'Look, there goes brave Walter, who is braveenough to fight with four.'There was no one so fully convinced of this as Walter himself, and oneday he prepared himself for a real wolf hunt. He took with him his drum,which had holes in one end since the time he had climbed up on it toreach a cluster of rowan berries, and his tin sabre, which was a littlebroken, because he had with incredible courage fought his way through awhole unfriendly army of gooseberry bushes.He did not forget to arm himself quite to the teeth with his pop gun,his bow, and his air pistol. He had a burnt cork in his pocket toblacken his moustache, and a red cock's feather to put in his cap tomake himself look fierce. He had besides in his trouser pocket a claspknife with a bone handle, to cut off the ears of the wolves as soon ashe had killed them, for he thought it would be cruel to do that whilethey were still living.It was such a good thing that Jonas was going with corn to the mill, forWalter got a seat on the load, while Caro ran barking beside them. Assoon as they came to the wood Walter looked cautiously around him tosee perchance there was a wolf in the bushes, and he did not omit toask Jonas if wolves were afraid of a drum. 'Of course they are' (that isunderstood) said Jonas. Thereupon Walter began to beat his drum with allhis might while they were going through the wood.When they came to the mill Walter immediately asked if there had beenany wolves in the neighbourhood lately.'Alas! yes,' said the miller, 'last night the wolves have eaten ourfattest ram there by the kiln not far from here.''Ah!' said Walter, 'do you think that there were many?''We don't know,' answered the miller.'Oh, it is all the same,' said Walter. 'I only asked so that I shouldknow if I should take Jonas with me.'I could manage very well alone with three, but if there were more, Imight not have time to kill them all before they ran away.''In Walter's place I should go quite alone, it is more manly,' saidJonas.'No, it is better for you to come too,' said Walter. 'Perhaps there aremany.''No, I have not time,' said Jonas, 'and besides, there are sure not tobe more than three. Walter can manage them very well alone.''Yes,' said Walter, 'certainly I could. but, you see, Jonas, it mighthappen that one of them might bite me in the back, and I should havemore trouble in killing them. If I only knew that there were not morethan two I should not mind, for them I should take one in each hand andgive them a good shaking, like Susanna once shook me.''I certainly think that there will not be more than two,' said Jonas,'there are never more than two when they slay children and rams. Waltercan very well shake them without me.''But, you see, Jonas,' said Walter, 'if there are two, it might stillhappen that one of them escapes and bites me in the leg, for you seeI am not so strong in the left hand as in the right. You can very wellcome with me, and take a good stick in case there are really two. Look,if there is only one, I shall take him so with both my hands and thrownhim living on to his back, and he can kick as much as he likes, I shallhold him fast.''Now, when I really think over the thing,' said Jonas, 'I am almost surethere will not be more than one. What would two do with one ram? Therewill certainly not be more than one.''But you should come with me all the same, Jonas,' said Walter. 'You seeI can very well manage one, but I am not quite accustomed to wolves yet,and he might tear holes in my new trousers.''Well, just listen,' said Jonas, 'I am beginning to think that Walteris not so brave as people say. First of all Walter would fight againstfour, and then against three, then two, and then one, and now Walterwants help with one. Such a thing must never be. what would people say?Perhaps they would think that Walter is a coward?''That's a lie,' said Walter, 'I am not at all frightened, but it ismore amusing when there are two. I only want someone who will see how Istrike the wolf and how the dust flies out of his skin.''Well, then, Walter can take the miller's little Lisa with him. She cansit on a stone and look on,' said Jonas.'No, she would certainly be frightened,' said Walter, 'and how wouldit do for a girl to go wolf hunting? Come with me, Jonas, and you shallhave the skin, and I will be content with the ears and the tail.''No, thank you,' said Jonas, 'Walter can keep the skin for himself. NowI see quite well that he is frightened. Fie, shame on him!'This touched Walter's pride very near. 'I shall show that I am notfrightened,' he said. and so he took his drum, sabre, cock's feather,clasp knife, pop gun and air pistol, and went off quite alone to thewood to hunt wolves.It was a beautiful evening, and the birds were singing in all thebranches. Walter went very slowly and cautiously. At every step helooked all round him to see if perchance there was anything lurkingbehind the stones. He quite thought something moved away there in theditch. Perhaps it was a wolf. 'It is better for me to beat the drum alittle before I go there,' thought Walter.Br r r, so he began to beat his drum. Then something moved again. Caw!caw! a crow flew up from the ditch. Walter immediately regained courage.'It was well I took my drum with me,' he thought, and went straight onwith courageous steps. Very soon he came quite close to the kiln, wherethe wolves had killed the ram. But the nearer he came the more dreadfulhe thought the kiln looked. It was so gray and old. Who knew how manywolves there might be hidden there? Perhaps the very ones which killedthe ram were still sitting there in a corner. Yes, it was not atall safe here, and there were no other people to be seen in theneighbourhood. It would be horrible to be eaten up here in the daylight,thought Walter to himself. and the more he thought about it the uglierand grayer the old kiln looked, and the more horrible and dreadful itseemed to become the food of wolves.'Shall I go back and say that I struck one wolf and it escaped?' thoughtWalter. 'Fie!' said his conscience, 'Do you not remember that a lie isone of the worst sins, both in the sight of God and man? If you tell alie to day and say you struck a wolf, to morrow surely it will eat youup.''No, I will go to the kiln,' thought Walter, and so he went. But hedid not go quite near. He went only so near that he could see the ram'sblood which coloured the grass red, and some tufts of wool which thewolves had torn from the back of the poor animal.It looked so dreadful.'I wonder what the ram thought when they ate him up,' thought Walterto himself. and just then a cold shiver ran through him from his collarright down to his boots.'It is better for me to beat the drum,' he thought to himself again, andso he began to beat it. But it sounded horrid, and an echo came outfrom the kiln that seemed almost like the howl of a wolf. The drumsticksstiffened in Walter's hands, and he thought now they are coming...!Yes, sure enough, just then a shaggy, reddish brown wolf's head lookedout from under the kiln!What did Walter do now? Yes, the brave Walter who alone could managefour, threw his drum far away, took to his heels and ran, and ran asfast as he could back to the mill.But, alas! the wolf ran after him. Walter looked back. the wolf wasquicker than he and only a few steps behind him. Then Walter ran faster.But fear got the better of him, he neither heard nor saw anything more.He ran over sticks, stones and ditches. he lost drum sticks, sabre,bow, and air pistol, and in his terrible hurry he tripped over a tuft ofgrass. There he lay, and the wolf jumped on to him....It was a gruesome tale! Now you may well believe that it was all overwith Walter and all his adventures. That would have been a pity. But donot be surprised if it was not quite so bad as that, for the wolf wasquite a friendly one. He certainly jumped on to Walter, but he onlyshook his coat and rubbed his nose against his face. and Waltershrieked. Yes, he shrieked terribly!Happily Jonas heard his cry of distress, for Walter was quite near themill now, and he ran and helped him up.'What has happened?' he asked. 'Why did Walter scream so terribly?''A wolf! A wolf!' cried Walter, and that was all he could say.'Where is the wolf?' said Jonas. 'I don't see any wolf.''Take care, he is here, he has bitten me to death,' groaned Walter.Then Jonas began to laugh. yes, he laughed so that he nearly burst hisskin belt.Well, well, was that the wolf? Was that the wolf which Walter was totake by the neck and shake and throw down on its back, no matter howmuch it struggled? Just look a little closer at him: he is your oldfriend, your own good old Caro. I quite expect he found a leg of the ramin the kiln. When Walter beat his drum, Caro crept out, and when Walterran away, Caro ran after him, as he so often does when Walter wants toromp and play.'Down, Caro! you ought to be rather ashamed to have put such a greathero to flight!'Walter got up feeling very foolish.'Down, Caro!' he said, both relieved and annoyed.'It was only a dog, then if it had been a wolf I certainly should havekilled him....''If Walter would listen to my advice, and boast a little less, and do alittle more,' said Jonas, consolingly. 'Walter is not a coward, is he?''I! You shall see, Jonas, when we next meet a bear. You see I like somuch better to fight with bears.''Indeed!' laughed Jonas. 'Are you at it again?'Dear Walter, remember that it is only cowards who boast. a really braveman never talks of his bravery.'From Z. Topelius.