Once upon a time there lived a poor knight who had a great manychildren, and found it very hard to get enough for them to eat. Oneday he sent his eldest son, Rosald, a brave and honest youth, to theneighbouring town to do some business, and here Rosald met a young mannamed Geirald, with whom he made friends.Now Geirald was the son of a rich man, who was proud of the boy, and hadall his life allowed him to do whatever he fancied, and, luckily for thefather, he was prudent and sensible, and did not waste money, as manyother rich young men might have done. For some time he had set his hearton travelling into foreign countries, and after he had been talkingfor a little while to Rosald, he asked if his new friend would be hiscompanion on his journey.'There is nothing I should like better,' answered Rosald, shaking hishead sorrowfully. 'but my father is very poor, and he could never giveme the money.''Oh, if that is your only difficulty, it is all right,' cried Geirald.'My father has more money than he knows what to do with, and he willgive me as much as I want for both of us. only, there is one thing youmust promise me, Rosald, that, supposing we have any adventures, youwill let the honour and glory of them fall to me.''Yes, of course, that is only fair,' answered Rosald, who never caredabout putting himself forward. 'But I cannot go without telling myparents. I am sure they will think me lucky to get such a chance.'As soon as the business was finished, Rosald hastened home. His parentswere delighted to hear of his good fortune, and his father gave him hisown sword, which was growing rusty for want of use, while his mother sawthat his leather jerkin was in order.'Be sure you keep the promise you made to Geirald,' said she, as shebade him good bye, 'and, come what may, see that you never betray him.'Full of joy Rosald rode off, and the next day he and Geirald started offto seek adventures. To their disappointment their own land was so wellgoverned that nothing out of the common was very likely to happen,but directly they crossed the border into another kingdom all seemedlawlessness and confusion.They had not gone very far, when, riding across a mountain, they caughta glimpse of several armed men hiding amongst some trees in their path,and remembered suddenly some talk they had heard of a band of twelverobbers who lay in wait for rich travellers. The robbers were more likesavage beasts than men, and lived somewhere at the top of the mountainin caves and holes in the ground. They were all called 'Hankur,' andwere distinguished one from another by the name of a colour blue, grey,red, and so on, except their chief, who was known as Hankur the Tall.All this and more rushed into the minds of the two young men as they sawthe flash of their swords in the moonlight.'It is impossible to fight them they are twelve to two,' whisperedGeirald, stopping his horse in the path. 'We had much better ride backand take the lower road. It would be stupid to throw away our lives likethis.''Oh, we can't turn back,' answered Rosald, 'we should be ashamed to lookanyone in the face again! And, besides, it is a grand opportunity toshow what we are made of. Let us tie up our horses here, and climb upthe rocks so that we can roll stones down on them.''Well, we might try that, and then we shall always have our horses,'said Geirald. So they went up the rocks silently and carefully.The robbers were lying all ready, expecting every moment to see theirvictims coming round the corner a few yards away, when a shower of hugestones fell on their heads, killing half the band. The others sprang upthe rock, but as they reached the top the sword of Rosald swung round,and one man after another rolled down into the valley. At last the chiefmanaged to spring up, and, grasping Rosald by the waist, flung awayhis sword, and the two fought desperately, their bodies swaying alwaysnearer the edge. It seemed as if Rosald, being the smaller of the two,MUST fall over, when, with his left hand, he drew the robber's sword outof its sheath and plunged it into his heart. Then he took from thedead man a beautiful ring set with a large stone, and put it on his ownfinger.The fame of this wonderful deed soon spread through the country, andpeople would often stop Geirald's horse, and ask leave to see therobber's ring, which was said to have been stolen from the father of thereigning king. And Geirald showed them the ring with pride, and listenedto their words of praise, and no one would ever have guessed anyone elsehad destroyed the robbers.In a few days they left the kingdom and rode on to another, where theythought they would stop through the remainder of the winter, for Geiraldliked to be comfortable, and did not care about travelling through iceand snow. But the king would only grant them leave to stop on conditionthat, before the winter was ended, they should give him some fresh proofof the courage of which he had heard so much. Rosald's heart was glad atthe king's message, and as for Geirald, he felt that as long as Rosaldwas there all would go well. So they both bowed low and replied that itwas the king's place to command and theirs to obey.'Well, then,' said his Majesty, 'this is what I want you to do: In thenorth east part of my kingdom there dwells a giant, who has an ironstaff twenty yards long, and he is so quick in using it, that even fiftyknights have no chance against him. The bravest and strongest youngmen of my court have fallen under the blows of that staff. but, as youovercame the twelve robbers so easily, I feel that I have reason to hopethat you may be able to conquer the giant. In three days from this youwill set out.''We will be ready, your Majesty,' answered Rosald. but Geirald remainedsilent.'How can we possibly fight against a giant that has killed fiftyknights?' cried Geirald, when they were outside the castle. 'The kingonly wants to get rid of us! He won't think about us for the next threedays that is one comfort so we shall have plenty of time to cross theborders of the kingdom and be out of reach.''We mayn't be able to kill the giant, but we certainly can't run awaytill we have tried,' answered Rosald. 'Besides, think how glorious itwill be if we DO manage to kill him! I know what sort of weapon I shalluse. Come with me now, and I will see about it.' And, taking his friendby the arm, he led him into a shop where he bought a huge lump of solidiron, so big that they could hardly lift it between them. However, theyjust managed to carry it to a blacksmith's where Rosald directed that itshould be beaten into a thick club, with a sharp spike at one end. Whenthis was done to his liking he took it home under his arm.Very early on the third morning the two young men started on theirjourney, and on the fourth day they reached the giant's cave before hewas out of bed. Hearing the sound of footsteps, the giant got up andwent to the entrance to see who was coming, and Rosald, expectingsomething of the sort, struck him such a blow on the forehead that hefell to the ground. Then, before he could rise to his feet again, Rosalddrew out his sword and cut off his head.'It was not so difficult after all, you see,' he said, turning toGeirald. And placing the giant's head in a leathern wallet which wasslung over his back, they began their journey to the castle.As they drew near the gates, Rosald took the head from the wallet andhanded it to Geirald, whom he followed into the king's presence.'The giant will trouble you no more,' said Geirald, holding out thehead. And the king fell on his neck and kissed him, and cried joyfullythat he was the 'bravest knight in all the world, and that a feastshould be made for him and Rosald, and that the great deed should beproclaimed throughout the kingdom.' And Geirald's heart swelled withpride, and he almost forgot that it was Rosald and not he, who had slainthe giant.By and by a whisper went round that a beautiful lady who lived in thecastle would be present at the feast, with twenty four lovely maidens,her attendants. The lady was the queen of her own country, but as herfather and mother had died when she was a little girl, she had been leftin the care of this king who was her uncle.She was now old enough to govern her own kingdom, but her subjects didnot like being ruled by a woman, and said that she must find a husbandto help her in managing her affairs. Prince after prince had offeredhimself, but the young queen would have nothing to say to any of them,and at last told her ministers that if she was to have a husband at allshe must choose him for herself, as she would certainly not marry any ofthose whom they had selected for her. The ministers replied that in thatcase she had better manage her kingdom alone, and the queen, who knewnothing about business, got things into such a confusion that at lastshe threw them up altogether, and went off to her uncle.Now when she heard how the two young men had slain the giant, her heartwas filled with admiration of their courage, and she declared that if afeast was held she would certainly be present at it.And so she was. and when the feast was over she asked the king, herguardian, if he would allow the two heroes who had killed the robbersand slain the giant to fight a tourney the next day with one of herpages. The king gladly gave his consent, and ordered the lists to bemade ready, never doubting that two great champions would be eager forsuch a chance of adding to their fame. Little did he guess that Geiraldhad done all he could to persuade Rosald to steal secretly out of thecastle during the night, 'for,' said he, 'I don't believe they are pagesat all, but well proved knights, and how can we, so young and untried,stand up against them?''The honour will be all the higher if we gain the day,' answered Rosald.but Geirald would listen to nothing, and only declared that he did notcare about honour, and would rather be alive than have every honour inthe world heaped upon him. Go he would, and as Rosald had sworn to givehim his company, he must come with him.Rosald was much grieved when he heard these words, but he knew that itwas useless attempting to persuade Geirald, and turned his thoughts toforming some plan to prevent this disgraceful flight. Suddenly hisface brightened. 'Let us change clothes,' he said, 'and I will do thefighting, while you shall get the glory. Nobody will ever know.' And tothis Geirald readily consented.Whether Geirald was right or not in thinking that the so called page wasreally a well proved knight, it is certain that Rosald's task was a veryhard one. Three times they came together with a crash which made theirhorses reel. once Rosald knocked the helmet off his foe, and received inreturn such a blow that he staggered in his saddle. Shouts went upfrom the lookers on, as first one and then the other seemed gainingthe victory. but at length Rosald planted his spear in the armourwhich covered his adversary's breast and bore him steadily backward.'Unhorsed! unhorsed!' cried the people. and Rosald then himselfdismounted and helped his adversary to rise.In the confusion that followed it was easy for Rosald to slip away andreturn Geirald his proper clothes. And in these, torn and dusty with thefight, Geirald answered the king's summons to come before him.'You have done what I expected you to do,' said he, 'and now, chooseyour reward.''Grant me, sire, the hand of the queen, your niece,' replied theyoung man, bowing low, 'and I will defend her kingdom against all herenemies.''She could choose no better husband,' said the king, 'and if sheconsents I do.' And he turned towards the queen, who had not beenpresent during the fight, but had just slipped into a seat by his righthand. Now the queen's eyes were very sharp, and it seemed to her thatthe man who stood before her, tall and handsome though he might be, wasdifferent in many slight ways, and in one in particular, from the manwho had fought the tourney. How there could be any trickery she couldnot understand, and why the real victor should be willing to give up hisprize to another was still stranger. but something in her heart warnedher to be careful. She answered: 'You may be satisfied, uncle, but I amnot. One more proof I must have. let the two young men now fight againsteach other. The man I marry must be the man who killed the robbers andthe giant, and overcame my page.' Geirald's face grew pale as he heardthese words. He knew there was no escape from him now, though he did notdoubt for one moment that Rosald would keep his compact loyally to thelast. But how would it be possible that even Rosald should deceive thewatchful eyes of the king and his court, and still more those of theyoung queen whom he felt uneasily had suspected him from the first?The tourney was fought, and in spite of Geirald's fears Rosald managedto hang back to make attacks which were never meant to succeed, and toallow strokes which he could easily have parried to attain their end. Atlength, after a great show of resistance, he fell heavily to the ground.And as he fell he knew that it was not alone the glory that was hisrightfully which he gave up, but the hand of the queen that was moreprecious still.But Geirald did not even wait to see if he was wounded. he went straightto the wall where the royal banner waved and claimed the reward whichwas now his.The crowd of watchers turned towards the queen, expecting to see herstoop and give some token to the victor. Instead, to the surpriseof everyone, she merely smiled gracefully, and said that before shebestowed her hand one more test must be imposed, but this should be thelast. The final tourney should be fought. Geirald and Rosald should meetsingly two knights of the king's court, and he who could unhorse his foeshould be master of herself and of her kingdom. The combat was fixed totake place at ten o'clock the following day.All night long Geirald walked about his room, not daring to facethe fight that lay in front of him, and trying with all his might todiscover some means of escaping it. All night long he moved restlesslyfrom door to window. and when the trumpets sounded, and the combatantsrode into the field, he alone was missing. The king sent messengersto see what had become of him, and he was found, trembling with fear,hiding under his bed. After that there was no need of any further proof.The combat was declared unnecessary, and the queen pronounced herselfquite satisfied, and ready to accept Rosald as her husband.'You forgot one thing,' she said, when they were alone. 'I recognizedmy father's ring which Hankur the Tall had stolen, on the finger of yourright hand, and I knew that it was you and not Geirald who had slain therobber band. I was the page who fought you, and again I saw the ring onyour finger, though it was absent from his when he stood before me toclaim the prize. That was why I ordered the combat between you, thoughyour faith to your word prevented my plan being successful, and I hadto try another. The man who keeps his promise at all costs to himself isthe man I can trust, both for myself and for my people.'So they were married, and returned to their own kingdom, which theyruled well and happily. And many years after a poor beggar knocked atthe palace gates and asked for money, for the sake of days gone by andthis was Geirald.