Did you done hear how come that old Sis Pig can see the wind? Well, to besure, ain't you never hear that? Well, don't you take noticement, many andmany a time, how unrestful, and 'stracted like, the pigs is, when the windblows, and how they squeal, and run this yer way and that yer way, likethey's 'stracted?Well, sah, all dat gwine on is along of the fact that they can see thewind. One time the old sow, she have five little pigs,   four black andone white one.Now old Brer Wolf, he have a mighty good mouth for pig meat, and he goevery night and walk round and round Miss Pig's house, but Sis Pig, shehave the door lock fast.One night, he dress up just like he was a man, and he put a tall hat on hehead, and shoes on he foots. he take a sack of corn, and he walk hard, andmake a mighty fuss on the brick walk, right up to the door, and he knockloud on the door in a great haste, and Sis Pig, she say, "Who there?"And Brer Wolf say up, loud and powerful, Brer Wolf did, "Quit yourfooling, old woman, I is the master, come for to put my mark on the newpigs. turn 'em loose here lively."And old Sis Pig, she mighty skeered, but she feared not to turn 'em out.so she crack the door, and turn out the four black pigs, but the littlewhite pig, he am her eyeballs, the little white pig was, and when he turncome, she just shut the door and hold it fast.And Brer Wolf, he turn down the corn, and just pick up the four littlepigs and tote 'em off home. but when they done gone, he mouth hone for thelittle pig, but Sis Pig, she keep him mighty close. One night Brer Wolfwas wandering up and down the woods, and he meet up with old Satan, and heax Brer Wolf, old Satan did, can he help him, and Brer Wolf he just tellhim what on he mind, and old Satan told him to lead on to Miss Pig'shouse, and he help him out.So Brer Wolf he lead on, and directly there Sis Pig's house, and oldSatan, he 'gin to puff and blow, and puff and blow, till Brer Wolf he thatskeered, Brer Wolf is, that he hair fairly stand on end. and Miss Pig shedone hear the mighty wind, and the house a cracking, and they hear herinside down on her knees, just calling on God A'mighty for mercy. but oldSatan, he puff and blow, and puff and blow, and the house crack andtremble, and he say, old Satan did, "You hear this yer mighty wind, SisPig, but if you look this yer way you can see it."And Sis Pig, she that skeered, she crack the door and look out, and thereshe see old Satan's breath, like red smoke, blowing on the house, and fromthat day the pigs can see the wind, and it look red, the wind look red,sah. How we know that? I tell you how we know that, sah: if anybody miss apig and take the milk, then they can see the wind, and they done tell itwas red.