YardIn one of the towers overlooking the Sea of Marmora and skirting theancient city of Stamboul, there lived an old junkman, who earned aprecarious livelihood in gathering cinders and useless pieces of iron, andselling them to smiths.Often did he moralize on the sad Kismet that had reduced him to the taskof daily laboring for his bread to make a shoe, perhaps for an ass. Surelyhe, a true Muslim, might at least be permitted to ride the ass. Hiseternal longing often found satisfaction in passing his hours of sleep indreams of wealth and luxury. But with the dawning of the day came realityand increased longing.Often did he call on the spirit of sleep to reverse matters, but in vain.with the rising of the sun began the gathering of the cinders and iron.One night he dreamt that he begged this nocturnal visitor to change hisnight to day, and the spirit said to him, "Go to Egypt, and it shall beso."This encouraging phrase haunted him by day and inspired him by night. Sopersecuted was he with the thought that when his wife said to him, fromthe door, "Have you brought home any bread?" he would reply, "No, I havenot gone. I will go tomorrow. " thinking she had asked him, " Have yougone to Egypt?"At last, when friends and neighbors began to pity poor Ahmet, for that washis name, as a man on whom the hand of Allah was heavily laid, removinghis intelligence, he one morning left his house, saying, "I go! I go! tothe land of wealth!" And he left his wife wringing her hands in despair,while the neighbors tried to comfort her. Poor Ahmet went straight onboard a boat which he had been told was bound for Iskender (Alexandria),and assured the captain that he was summoned thither, and that he wasbound to take him. Half witted and mad persons being more holy thanothers, Ahmet was conveyed to Iskender.Arriving in Iskender, Hadji Ahmet roamed far and wide, proceeding as faras Cairo, in search of the luxuries he had enjoyed at Constantinople whenin the land of Morpheus, which he had been promised to enjoy in thesunshine, if he came to Egypt. Alas! for Hadji Ahmet. the only bread hehad to eat was that which was given him by sympathizing humanity. Timesped on, sympathy was growing tired of expending itself on Hadji Ahmet,and his crusts of bread were few and far between.Wearied of life and suffering, he decided to ask Allah to let him die, andwandering out to the pyramids he solicited the stones to have pity andfall on him. It happened that a Turk heard this prayer, and said to him,"Why so miserable, father? Has your soul been so strangled that you preferits being dashed out of your body, to its remaining the prescribed time inbondage?""Yes, my son," said Hadji Ahmet. "Far away in Stamboul, with the help ofGod, I managed as a junkman to feed my wife and myself. but here am I, inEgypt, a stranger, alone and starving, with possibly my wife already deadof starvation, and all this through a dream.""Alas! Alas! my father! that you at your age should be tempted to wanderso far from home and friends, because of a dream. Why, were I to obey mydreams, I would at this present moment be in Stamboul, digging for atreasure that lies buried under a tree. I can even now, although I havenever been there, describe where it is. In my mind's eye I see a wall, agreat wall, that must have been built many years ago, and supporting orseeming to support this wall are towers with many corners, towers that areround, towers that are square, and others that have smaller towers withinthem. In one of these towers, a square one, there live an old man andwoman, and close by the tower is a large tree, and every night when Idream of the place, the old man tells me to dig and disclose the treasure.But, father, I am not such a fool as to go to Stamboul and seek to verifythis. It is an oft repeated dream and nothing more. See what you have beenreduced to by coming so far.""Yes," said Hadji Ahmet, "it is a dream and nothing more, but you haveinterpreted it. Allah be praised, you have encouraged me. I will return tomy home." And Hadji Ahmet and the young stranger parted, the one gratefulthat it had pleased Allah to give him the power to revive and encourage adrooping spirit, and the other grateful to Allah that when he haddespaired of life a stranger should come and give him the interpretationof his dream. He certainly had wandered far and long to learn that thetreasure was in his own garden.Hadji Ahmet in due course, much to the astonishment of both wife andneighbors, again appeared upon the scene not a much changed man. In fact,he was the cinder and iron gatherer of old.To all questions as to where he was and what he had been doing, he wouldanswer, "A dream sent me away, and a dream brought me back."And the neighbors would say, "Truly he must be blessed."One night Hadji Ahmet went to the tree, provided with spade and pick, thathe had secured from an obliging neighbor. After digging a short time aheavy case was brought to view, in which he found gold, silver, andprecious jewels of great value. Hadji Ahmet replaced the case and earthand returned to bed, much lamenting that it had pleased God to furnishwomen, more especially his wife, with a long tongue, long hair, and veryshort wits. "Alas!" he thought, "If I tell my wife, I may be hung as arobber, for it is against the laws of nature for a woman to keep asecret."Yet, becoming more generous when thinking of the years of toil andhardship she had shared with him, he decided to try and see if, by chance,his wife was not an exception to other women. Who knows, she might keepthe secret. To test her, at no risk to himself and the treasure, heconceived a plan.Crawling from his bed, he sallied forth and bought, found, or stole anegg. This egg on the following morning he showed to his wife, and said toher, "Alas! I fear I am not as other men, for evidently in the night Ilaid this egg. and, wife mine, if the neighbors hear of this, yourhusband, the long suffering Hadji Ahmet, will be bastinadoed, bowstrung,and burned to death. Ah, truly, my soul is strangled."And without another word Hadji Ahmet, with a sack on his shoulder, wentforth to gather the cast off shoes of horse, ox, or ass, wondering if hiswife would prove an exception in this, as she had in many other ways, toother women.In the evening he returned, heavily laden with his finds, and as he nearedhome he heard rumors, ominous rumors, that a certain Hadji Ahmet, who hadbeen considered a holy man, had done something that was unknown in thehistory of man, even in the history of hens: that he had laid a dozeneggs.Needless to add that Hadji Ahmet did not tell his wife of the treasure,but daily went forth with his sack to gather iron and cinders, andinvariably found, when separating his finds of the day, in company withhis wife, at first one, and then more gold and silver pieces, and now andthen a precious stone.