In a small hut, right in the middle of the forest, lived a man, hiswife, three sons and a daughter. For some reason, all the animals seemedto have left that part of the country, and food grew very scarce. so,one morning, after a night of snow, when the tracks of beasts might beeasily seen, the three boys started off to hunt.They kept together for some time, till they reached a place where thepath they had been following split into two, and one of the brotherscalled his dog and went to the left, while the others took the trail tothe right. These had not gone far when their dogs scented a bear, anddrove him out from the thicket. The bear ran across a clearing, and theelder brother managed to place an arrow right in his head.They both took up the bear, and carried it towards home, meeting thethird at the spot where they had parted from him. When they reached homethey threw the bear down on the floor of the hut saying,'Father, here is a bear which we killed. now we can have some dinner.'But the father, who was in a bad temper, only said:'When I was a young man we used to get two bears in one day.'The sons were rather disappointed at hearing this, and though there wasplenty of meat to last for two or three days, they started off early inthe morning down the same trail that they had followed before. As theydrew near the fork a bear suddenly ran out from behind a tree, and tookthe path on the right. The two elder boys and their dogs pursued him,and soon the second son, who was also a good shot, killed him instantlywith an arrow. At the fork of the trail, on their way home, they metthe youngest, who had taken the left hand road, and had shot a bear forhimself. But when they threw the two bears triumphantly on the floor ofthe hut their father hardly looked at them, and only said:'When I was a young man I used to get three bears in one day.'The next day they were luckier than before, and brought back threebears, on which their father told them that HE had always killed four.However, that did not prevent him from skinning the bears and cookingthem in a way of his own, which he thought very good, and they all atean excellent supper.Now these bears were the servants of the great bear chief who lived ina high mountain a long way off. And every time a bear was killed hisshadow returned to the house of the bear chief, with the marks of hiswounds plainly to bee seen by the rest.The chief was furious at the number of bears the hunters had killed, anddetermined that he would find some way of destroying them. So he calledanother of his servants, and said to him:'Go to the thicket near the fork, where the boys killed your brothers,and directly they or the dogs see you return here as fast as ever youcan. The mountain will open to let you in, and the hunters will followyou. Then I shall have them in my power, and be able to revenge myself.'The servant bowed low, and started at once for the fork, where he hidhimself in the bushes.By and by the boys came in sight, but this time there were only two ofthem, as the youngest had stayed at home. The air was warm and damp, andthe snow soft and slushy, and the elder brother's bowstring hung loose,while the bow of the younger caught in a tree and snapped in half. Atthat moment the dogs began to bark loudly, and the bear rushed outof the thicket and set off in the direction of the mountain. Withoutthinking that they had nothing to defend themselves with, should thebear turn and attack them, the boys gave chase. The bear, who knew quitewell that he could not be shot, sometimes slackened his pace and let thedogs get quite close. and in this way the elder son reached the mountainwithout observing it, while his brother, who had hurt his foot, wasstill far behind.As he ran up, the mountain opened to admit the bear, and the boy, whowas close on his heels, rushed in after him, and did not know where hewas till he saw bears sitting on every side of him, holding a council.The animal he had been chasing sank panting in their midst, and the boy,very much frightened, stood still, letting his bow fall to the ground.'Why are you trying to kill all my servants?' asked the chief. 'Lookround and see their shades, with arrows sticking in them. It was I whotold the bear to day how he was to lure you into my power. I shall takecare that you shall not hurt my people any more, because you will becomea bear yourself.'At this moment the second brother came up for the mountain had beenleft open on purpose to tempt him also and cried out breathlessly:'Don't you see that the bear is lying close to you? Why don't you shoothim?' And, without waiting for a reply, pressed forward to drive hisarrow into the heart of the bear. But the elder one caught his raisedarm, and whispered: 'Be quiet! can't you tell where you are?' Then theboy looked up and saw the angry bears about him. On the one side werethe servants of the chief, and on the other the servants of the chief'ssister, who was sorry for the two youths, and begged that their livesmight be spared. The chief answered that he would not kill them, butonly cast a spell over them, by which their heads and bodies shouldremain as they were, but their arms and legs should change into those ofa bear, so that they would go on all fours for the rest of their lives.And, stooping over a spring of water, he dipped a handful of moss init and rubbed it over the arms and legs of the boys. In an instant thetransformation took place, and two creatures, neither beast nor humanstood before the chief.Now the bear chief of course knew that the boys' father would seekfor his sons when they did not return home, so he sent another of hisservants to the hiding place at the fork of the trail to see what wouldhappen. He had not waited long, when the father came in sight, stoopingas he went to look for his sons' tracks in the snow. When he saw themarks of snow shoes along the path on the right he was filled with joy,not knowing that the servant had made some fresh tracks on purpose tomislead him. and he hastened forward so fast that he fell headlong intoa pit, where the bear was sitting. Before he could pick himself up thebear had quietly broken his neck, and, hiding the body under the snow,sat down to see if anyone else would pass that way.Meanwhile the mother at home was wondering what had become of her twosons, and as the hours went on, and their father never returned, shemade up her mind to go and look for him. The youngest boy begged her tolet him undertake the search, but she would not hear of it, and told himhe must stay at home and take care of his sister. So, slipping on hersnow shoes, she started on her way.As no fresh snow had fallen, the trail was quite easy to find, and shewalked straight on, till it led her up to the pit where the bear waswaiting for her. He grasped her as she fell and broke her neck, afterwhich he laid her in the snow beside her husband, and went back to tellthe bear chief.Hour after hour dragged heavily by in the forest hut, and at last thebrother and sister felt quite sure that in some way or other all therest of the family had perished. Day after day the boy climbed to thetop of a tall tree near the house, and sat there till he was almostfrozen, looking on all sides through the forest openings, hoping that hemight see someone coming along. Very soon all the food in the house waseaten, and he knew he would have to go out and hunt for more. Besides,he wished to seek for his parents.The little girl did not like being left alone in the hut, and criedbitterly. but her brother told her that there was no use sitting downquietly to starve, and that whether he found any game or not he wouldcertainly be back before the following night. Then he cut himself somearrows, each from a different tree, and winged with the feathers of fourdifferent birds. He then made himself a bow, very light and strong, andgot down his snow shoes. All this took some time, and he could not startthat day, but early next morning he called his little dog Redmouth, whomhe kept in a box, and set out.After he had followed the trail for a great distance he grew verytired, and sat upon the branch of a tree to rest. But Redmouth barked sofuriously that the boy thought that perhaps his parents might have beenkilled under its branches, and stepping back, shot one of his arrows atthe root of the tree. Whereupon a noise like thunder shook it from topto bottom, fire broke out, and in a few minutes a little heap of asheslay in the place where it had stood.Not knowing quite what to make of it all, the boy continued on thetrail, and went down the right hand fork till he came to the clump ofbushes where the bears used to hide.Now, as was plain by his being able to change the shape of the twobrothers, the bear chief knew a good deal of magic, and he was quiteaware that the little boy was following the trail, and he sent a verysmall but clever bear servant to wait for him in the bushes and to tryto tempt him into the mountain. But somehow his spells could not haveworked properly that day, as the bear chief did not know that Redmouthhad gone with his master, or he would have been more careful. For themoment the dog ran round the bushes barking loudly, the little bearservant rushed out in a fright, and set out for the mountains as fast ashe could.The dog followed the bear, and the boy followed the dog, until themountain, the house of the great bear chief, came in sight. But alongthe road the snow was so wet and heavy that the boy could hardly getalong, and then the thong of his snow shoes broke, and he had to stopand mend it, so that the bear and the dog got so far ahead that he couldscarcely hear the barking. When the strap was firm again the boy spoketo his snow shoes and said:'Now you must go as fast as you can, or, if not, I shall lose the dog aswell as the bear.' And the snow shoes sang in answer that they would runlike the wind.As he came along, the bear chief's sister was looking out of the window,and took pity on this little brother, as she had on the two elder ones,and waited to see what the boy would do, when he found that the bearservant and the dog had already entered the mountain.The little brother was certainly very much puzzled at not seeinganything of either of the animals, which had vanished suddenly out ofhis sight. He paused for an instant to think what he should do next,and while he did so he fancied he heard Redmouth's voice on the oppositeside of the mountain. With great difficulty he scrambled over steeprocks, and forced a path through tangled thickets. but when he reachedthe other side the sound appeared to start from the place from which hehad come. Then he had to go all the way back again, and at the very top,where he stopped to rest, the barking was directly beneath him, and heknew in an instant where he was and what had happened.'Let my dog out at once, bear chief!' cried he. 'If you do not, I shalldestroy your palace.' But the bear chief only laughed, and said nothing.The boy was very angry at his silence, and aiming one of his arrows atthe bottom of the mountain, shot straight through it.As the arrow touched the ground a rumbling was heard, and with a roar afire broke out which seemed to split the whole mountain into pieces.The bear chief and all his servants were burnt up in the flames, but hissister and all that belonged to her were spared because she had tried tosave the two elder boys from punishment.As soon as the fire had burnt itself out the little hunter enteredwhat was left of the mountain, and the first thing he saw was his twobrothers half bear, half boy.'Oh, help us! help us!' cried they, standing on their hind legs as theyspoke, and stretching out their fore paws to him.'But how am I to help you?' asked the little brother, almost weeping.'I can kill people, and destroy trees and mountains, but I have no powerover men.' And the two elder brothers came up and put their paws on hisshoulders, and they all three wept together.The heart of the bear chief's sister was moved when she saw theirmisery, and she came gently up behind, and whispered:'Little boy, gather some moss from the spring over there, and let yourbrothers smell it.'With a bound all three were at the spring, and as the youngest plucked ahandful of wet moss, the two others sniffed at it with all their might.Then the bearskin fell away from them, and they stood upright once more.'How can we thank you? how can we thank you?' they stammered, hardlyable to speak. and fell at her feet in gratitude. But the bear's sisteronly smiled, and bade them go home and look after the little girl, whohad no one else to protect her.And this the boys did, and took such good care of their sister that, asshe was very small, she soon forgot that she had ever had a father andmother.