There was once upon a time a man who understood all sorts of arts. heserved in the war, and bore himself bravely and well. but when the warwas over, he got his discharge, and set out on his travels with threefarthings of his pay in his pocket. 'Wait,' he said. 'that does notplease me. only let me find the right people, and the King shall yetgive me all the treasures of his kingdom.' He strode angrily into theforest, and there he saw a man standing who had uprooted six trees asif they were straws. He said to him, 'Will you be my servant and travelwith me?''Yes,' he answered. 'but first of all I will take this little bundleof sticks home to my mother,' and he took one of the trees and woundit round the other five, raised the bundle on his shoulders and bore itoff. Then he came back and went with his master, who said, 'We two oughtto be able to travel through the wide world!' And when they had gone alittle way they came upon a hunter, who was on his knees, his gun on hisshoulder, aiming at something. The master said to him, 'Hunter, what areyou aiming at?'He answered, 'Two miles from this place sits a fly on a branch of anoak. I want to shoot out its left eye.''Oh, go with me,' said the man. 'if we three are together we shalleasily travel through the wide world.'The hunter agreed and went with him, and they came to seven windmillswhose sails were going round quite fast, and yet there was not a breathof wind, nor was a leaf moving. The man said, 'I don't know what isturning those windmills. there is not the slightest breeze blowing.' Sohe walked on with his servants, and when they had gone two miles theysaw a man sitting on a tree, holding one of his nostrils and blowing outof the other.'Fellow, what are you puffing at up there?' asked the man.He replied, 'Two miles from this place are standing seven windmills.see, I am blowing to drive them round.''Oh, go with me,' said the man. 'if we four are together we shall easilytravel through the wide world.'So the blower got down and went with him, and after a time they saw aman who was standing on one leg, and had unstrapped the other andlaid it near him. Then said the master, 'You have made yourself verycomfortable to rest!''I am a runner,' answered he. 'and so that I shall not go too quickly,I have unstrapped one leg. when I run with two legs, I go faster than abird flies.''Oh, go with me. if we five are together, we shall easily travel throughthe wide world.' So he went with him, and, not long afterwards, they meta man who wore a little hat, but he had it slouched over one ear.'Manners, manners!' said the master to him. 'don't hang your hat overone ear. you look like a madman!''I dare not,' said the other, 'for if I were to put my hat on straight,there would come such a frost that the very birds in the sky wouldfreeze and fall dead on the earth.''Oh, go with me,' said the master. 'if we six are together, we shalleasily travel through the wide world.Now the Six came to a town in which the King had proclaimed that whoevershould run with his daughter in a race, and win, should become herhusband. but if he lost, he must lose his head. This was reported tothe man who declared he would compete, 'but,' he said, 'I shall let myservant run for me.'The King replied, 'Then both your heads must be staked, and your headand his must be guaranteed for the winner.'When this was agreed upon and settled, the man strapped on the runner'sother leg, saying to him, 'Now be nimble, and see that we win!' It wasarranged that whoever should first bring water out of a stream a longway off, should be the victor. Then the runner got a pitcher, and theKing's daughter another, and they began to run at the same time. but ina moment, when the King's daughter was only just a little way off,no spectator could see the runner, and it seemed as if the wind hadwhistled past. In a short time he reached the stream, filled hispitcher with water, and turned round again. But, half way home, a greatdrowsiness came over him. he put down his pitcher, lay down, and fellasleep. He had, however, put a horse's skull which was lying on theground, for his pillow, so that he should not be too comfortable andmight soon wake up.In the meantime the King's daughter, who could also run well, as wellas an ordinary man could, reached the stream, and hastened back with herpitcher full of water. When she saw the runner lying there asleep, shewas delighted, and said, 'My enemy is given into my hands!' She emptiedhis pitcher and ran on.Everything now would have been lost, if by good luck the hunter had notbeen standing on the castle tower and had seen everything with his sharpeyes.'Ah,' said he, 'the King's daughter shall not overreach us.' and,loading his gun, he shot so cleverly, that he shot away the horse'sskull from under the runner's head, without its hurting him. Then therunner awoke, jumped up, and saw that his pitcher was empty and theKing's daughter far ahead. But he did not lose courage, and ran backto the stream with his pitcher, filled it once more with water, and washome ten minutes before the King's daughter arrived.'Look,' said he, 'I have only just exercised my legs. that was nothingof a run.'But the King was angry, and his daughter even more so, that she shouldbe carried away by a common, discharged soldier. They consulted togetherhow they could destroy both him and his companions.'Then,' said the King to her, 'I have found a way. Don't be frightened.they shall not come home again.' He said to them, 'You must now makemerry together, and eat and drink,' and he led them into a room whichhad a floor of iron. the doors were also of iron, and the windows werebarred with iron. In the room was a table spread with delicious food.The King said to them, 'Go in and enjoy yourselves,' and as soon asthey were inside he had the doors shut and bolted. Then he made the cookcome, and ordered him to keep up a large fire under the room until theiron was red hot. The cook did so, and the Six sitting round the tablefelt it grow very warm, and they thought this was because of their goodfare. but when the heat became still greater and they wanted to go out,but found the doors and windows fastened, then they knew that the Kingmeant them harm and was trying to suffocate them.'But he shall not succeed,' cried he of the little hat, 'I will make afrost come which shall make the fire ashamed and die out!' So he put hishat on straight, and at once there came such a frost that all the heatdisappeared and the food on the dishes began to freeze. When a couple ofhours had passed, and the King thought they must be quite dead from theheat, he had the doors opened and went in himself to see.But when the doors were opened, there stood all Six, alive and well,saying they were glad they could come out to warm themselves, for thegreat cold in the room had frozen all the food hard in the dishes. Thenthe King went angrily to the cook, and scolded him, and asked him why hehad not done what he was told.But the cook answered, 'There is heat enough there. see for yourself.'Then the King saw a huge fire burning under the iron room, andunderstood that he could do no harm to the Six in this way. The Kingnow began again to think how he could free himself from his unwelcomeguests. He commanded the master to come before him, and said, 'If youwill take gold, and give up your right to my daughter, you shall have asmuch as you like.''Oh, yes, your Majesty,' answered he, 'give me as much as my servant cancarry, and I will give up your daughter.'The King was delighted, and the man said, 'I will come and fetch it infourteen days.'Then he called all the tailors in the kingdom together, and made themsit down for fourteen days sewing at a sack. When it was finished, hemade the strong man who had uprooted the trees take the sack on hisshoulder and go with him to the King. Then the King said, 'What apowerful fellow that is, carrying that bale of linen as large as a houseon his shoulder!' and he was much frightened, and thought 'What a lot ofgold he will make away with!' Then he had a ton of gold brought, whichsixteen of the strongest men had to carry. but the strong man seized itwith one hand, put it in the sack, saying, 'Why don't you bring me more?That scarcely covers the bottom!' Then the King had to send again andagain to fetch his treasures, which the strong man shoved into the sack,and the sack was only half full.'Bring more,' he cried, 'these crumbs don't fill it.' So seven thousandwaggons of the gold of the whole kingdom were driven up. these thestrong man shoved into the sack, oxen and all.'I will no longer be particular,' he said, 'and will take what comes, sothat the sack shall be full.'When everything was put in and there was not yet enough, he said, 'Iwill make an end of this. it is easy to fasten a sack when it is notfull.' Then he threw it on his back and went with his companions.Now, when the King saw how a single man was carrying away the wealthof the whole country he was very angry, and made his cavalry mountand pursue the Six, and bring back the strong man with the sack. Tworegiments soon overtook them, and called to them, 'You are prisoners!lay down the sack of gold or you shall be cut down.''What do you say?' said the blower, 'we are prisoners? Before that, youshall dance in the air!' And he held one nostril and blew with the otherat the two regiments. they were separated and blown away in the blue skyover the mountains, one this way, and the other that. A sergeant majorcried for mercy, saying he had nine wounds, and was a brave fellow, anddid not deserve this disgrace. So the blower let him off, and he camedown without hurt. Then he said to him, 'Now go home to the King, andsay that if he sends any more cavalry I will blow them all into theair.'When the King received the message, he said, 'Let the fellows go. theyare bewitched.' Then the Six brought the treasure home, shared it amongthemselves, and lived contentedly till the end of their days.