Many marvellous things did Eulenspiegel bring to pass in the land of Hessen. After that he had journeyed up and down in the country of Saxony, and his fame had spread so abroad that no longer dare he work his knaveries and beguilings in that land, came our worshipful master forth from Saxony, and did enter into the land of Hessen, and came therein unto Marburg, unto the landgrave where that he kept his court.Then inquired the landgrave of Eulenspiegel, what manner of man he was and what he could do.Then answered Eulenspiegel, and said: "Lord, I know the arts, and that manner of man am I, and your humble servant."Thereat rejoiced the landgrave greatly, for he thought that Eulenspiegel was an alchymist, and in alchymy had the landgrave much delight. Then spake he unto him, saying: "Art thou an alchymist?"And Eulenspiegel answered: "Nay, that am I not, in good sooth, for of dross make not I gold, but rather quite the other thing. Yet am I a painter, the equal unto whom can be nowhere found in any country, for my work is far better than the work of any other painter."Then said the landgrave: "Come, let us now look upon some of thy work."And Eulenspiegel said: "Yea, my lord."And he had with him some paintings cunningly devised, the which he had brought out of Flanders. These took he from his wallet, and displayed them before that prince.These pleased the lord much, and he said unto Eulenspiegel: "Worshipful sir painter, what money will ye have if that ye would paint on the wall of our castle hall the story of the family of the landgraves of Hessen, and how that through them I became friendly unto and with the King of Hungary, and other lords and princes, and how long the land of Hessen hath been established? And that must ye tell me in the wise that will be most costly and precious."Then answered Eulenspiegel: "Behold, most gracious prince, if that ye would have it so rarely done, it might truly cost not less than four hundred marks."Then answered the landgrave, and said unto Eulenspiegel: "Master, an if you do but make it rarely, the money shall not fail, nor will we forget to reward thee as ye shall deserve."Then did Eulenspiegel consent to become the painter of the picture. and thereat gave the landgrave unto Eulenspiegel one hundred marks so that he might buy colours therewith.But when that Eulenspiegel came with three servants he had found, to see what the work was which was to be done, he gat him unto the landgrave, and spake unto him, and entreated him, saying: "Behold, noble prince, I would crave a grace from ye, which I would ask that ye should grant unto me."Then spake the landgrave: "Yea, that I will grant thee. Speak on."And Eulenspiegel answered, and said: "The grace I crave from thee is, that, while my work is going forward, no one shall enter without that they ask of me whether they may enter therein."And therewith the landgrave granted Eulenspiegel the grace he desired. Then conferred Eulenspiegel with his men, and said unto them, that they must take an oath unto him not to betray him. and so did they. And he said unto them, that they need not do any kind of labour, but they might play at tables and chess and other merry pastimes. And thereat were the men content. nor was it greatly marvellous that in such wise they should be, for Eulenspiegel did promise to pay them for serving him after this manner. Then it came to pass, after some three or four weeks had gone by, that the landgrave craved much to see in what measure the painting of Eulenspiegel was ready, and whether, of a truth, it did resemble the ensamples which Eulenspiegel had shewn unto him, which were so goodly and fair.Thereat gat he him to Eulenspiegel, and said unto him: "Alas, most worshipful master, I would fain come into the hall and see in what measure my picture doth grow ready."Then Eulenspiegel spake unto the landgrave, and answered him, and said: "Yea, and that shall ye also do. But I must tell unto thee a marvellous secret which doth touch all my painting, in that no one, if he be ignobly born, or not according unto the ordinance of Holy Church, can behold my painting to see it."The landgrave said thereafter: "Truly that is a marvellous thing."Yet, my masters, ye may perceive in that the landgrave was an alchymist, so had he also more belief in such affairs than cometh unto the lot of all men. And then went he with Eulenspiegel into the hall, and there had Eulenspiegel hanged up a white cloth, that he should have painted.And with a white wand did he point to the wall when that he had with his hand put the cloth somewhat aside, and then spake he to the landgrave, and said unto him: "Most noble landgrave, look upon this painting, so marvellous well done and with fair colours, and behold here in this corner he that was first lord of Hessen and earl of the land. And here perceive ye one that was an earl of Rome there unto, and he had a princess and a wife, who was duchess of Bavaria and a daughter of the mild and good Justinian, who afterwards became emperor. And look ye, noble lord. of them was born Adolphus. And of Adolphus came William the Swart. and this William had a son Ludwig, who was named the Pious. and so forward until that we come down unto your lordship's grace. And I know well that there is no person living that can reprove my work, so curiously have I made it, and with such fair and goodly colours."Yet saw the lord nought before his face but the white wall, and he thought unto himself: "Though I see no thing but the wall, yet will I say nought unto the master, else will he know full well that L am not nobly born, but basely and vilely."Therefore said the landgrave unto Eulenspiegel: "Learned and cunning master painter, your work pleaseth me marvellously well, yet is my understanding very small therein."Therefore departed he out of the hall. And when that he did come unto the princess his wife, she spake unto him, and asked him, saying: "How goeth it with the master painter? Ye have seen his work and devices, and how are ye pleased therewith? Truly have I but small belief in him. for he seemeth unto me a rare and most cunning knave and beguiler."And the landgrave answered her: "I have shrewd trust in him. and therein is displayed great cunning and mastery. I like it well. Would it please thee also to look thereon?"And she said: "Yea, that it would."And the landgrave said: "Then, with the master's consent, shall ye do it."Then sent she for Eulenspiegel, and said unto him, that she did desire to behold his painting. And that did Eulenspiegel grant unto her. but he told her likewise the marvellous secret which did hang upon his painting. And they entered in, and with the princess came eight maidens of her women and her woman fool, which did everywhere be in her company.And Eulenspiegel put back the cloth with his hand, and with his wand told them the same story which he had told unto the landgrave.Yet perceived they nothing. but being ashamed, spake not any word, neither praising nor blaming the picture.But then did the woman fool open her mouth, and spake, and said unto Eulenspiegel: "Worshipful master, an if it be that I am basely born, yet see I no thing of thy device upon the wall."And Eulenspiegel thought: "Now goeth the matter not so rarely on as before. for if the fools speak truth, then truly must I depart hence," and laughed thereat within himself.Thereafter departed the princess, and went unto her lord and husband, and he spake unto her, and asked her how that the work liked (pleased) her.And she answered and said: "Most gracious lord, it liketh me as well as it did you, and truly is most rare. But my woman fool it liketh not. and she saith that she cannot see any painting there at all. And she and my maidens think that there lieth hid some knavish practice therein."Thereat began the landgrave to take counsel within himself, if it might be that he was beguiled. but he sent word unto Eulenspiegel that he should make ready his work, for that all his court was coming to behold the picture, and that if any among them fortuned to be base born, then should their lands be escheated unto the landgrave.Thereat gat him Eulenspiegel unto his fellows and discharged them, and gave them money, and they departed. And then went he unto the treasurer, and of him gat he other hundred marks. and then went he forth from the castle, and so departed on his way. And it came to pass that on the morrow the landgrave demanded where that his painter might be   but he had departed.Thereat went he with all his lords into the hall where that the master had exercised his cunning device, but there saw they no painting. so they spake no words, but kept their mouths shut.Thereat said the landgrave, for he beheld the sign which Eulenspiegel did always write where that he had worked any knavery, which was that he wrote up the device of an owl (Eule) and a glass (Spiegel): "Now do we know that we are be guiled. and with Eulenspiegel have we but little for to be moved, but rather for the two hundred marks, but the loss thereof can we likewise bear. But a great knave is he, and must henceforth remain far from our lands."Thus did our noble Master Eulenspiegel everywhere teach wisdom unto the lieges. but from Marburg had he gat him forth, nor would he again have to do with the painter's mastery.