Version 1Once on a time there was a boy named Jack, and one morning he startedto go and seek his fortune. He hadn't gone very far before he met acat."Where are you going, Jack?" said the cat."I am going to seek my fortune.""May I go with you?""Yes," said Jack, "the more the merrier."So on they went, jiggelty jolt, jiggelty jolt.They went a little further and they met a dog."Where are you going, Jack?" said the dog."I am going to seek my fortune.""May I go with you?""Yes," said Jack, "the more the merrier."So on they went, jiggelty jolt, jiggelty jolt.They went a little further and they met a goat,"Where are you going, Jack?" said the goat."I am going to seek my fortune.""May I go with you?""Yes," said Jack, "the more the merrier."So on they went, jiggelty jolt, jiggelty jolt.They went a little further and they met a bull."Where are you going, Jack?" said the bull."I am going to seek my fortune.""May I go with you?""Yes," said Jack, "the more the merrier."So on they went, jiggelty jolt, jiggelty jolt.They went a little further and they met a skunk."Where are you going, Jack?" said the skunk."May I go with you?""Yes," said Jack, "the more the merrier."So on they went, jiggelty jolt, jiggelty jolt.They went a little further and they met a rooster."Where are you going, Jack?" said the rooster."I am going to seek my fortune.""May I go with you?""Yes," said Jack, "the more the merrier."So on they went, jiggelty jolt, jiggelty jolt.Well, they went on till it was about dark, and they began to think ofsome place where they could spend the night. About this time they came insight of a house, and Jack told them to keep still while he went up alooked in through the window. And there were some robbers counting overtheir money. Then Jack went back and told them to wait till he gave theword, and then to make all the noise they could. So when they were allready Jack gave the word, and the cat mewed, and the dog barked, and thegoat blatted, and the bull bellowed, and the rooster crowed, and alltogether they made such a dreadful noise that it frightened the robbersall away.And then they went in a took possession of the house. Jack was afraidthe robbers would come back in the night, and so when it came time to goto bed he put the cat in the rocking chair, and he put the dog under thetable, and he put the goat upstairs, and he put the bull down cellar, andhe put the skunk in the corner of the fireplace, and the rooster flew uponto the roof, and Jack went to bed.By and by the robbers saw it was all dark, and they sent one man backto the house to look after their money. Before long he came back in agreat fright and told them his story."I went back to the house," said he, "and went in an tried to sit downin the rocking chair, and there was an old woman knitting, and she stuckher knitting needles into me. I went to the table to look after the money,and there was a shoemaker under the table, and he stuck his awl into me. Istarted to go upstairs, and there was a man up there threshing, and heknocked me down with his flail. I started to go down cellar, and there wasa man down there chopping wood, and he knocked me up with his axe. I wentto warm me at the fireplace, and there was an old woman washing dishes,and she threw her dishwater onto me. But I shouldn't have minded all thatif it hadn't been for that little fellow on top of the house, who kept ahollering, 'Toss him up to me e! Toss him up to me e!'"