In a certain city there was a nobleman. He had been very wealthy, buthis goods were destroyed, and he became indigent, and in this condition hedied.When his son came of full age, the mother said to him, "Son, I am nowapproaching old age, but you are unable to provide for me by yourself.Therefore you must take in marriage a woman from a suitable family."He married, but his wife did not exert herself for his mother. Tocounter this, the husband collected fragments of broken plates from the wholevillage. These he put in a bag made of skin. Then he said, "When you comenear that woman, my wife, take this bagfrom its box as though there were great wealth in it, shake it, then putit away again."The mother took her son's words to heart. She shook the skin bag as hehad told her to, so as to be noticed by his wife, and then carefullyreplaced it in the box. From that day on the son's wife began to exertherself for hermother in law. During this time leprosy attacked the mother in law.The son said, "Mother, place the skin bag near the place where yousleep, then say to your relatives and to my wife, 'I have saved thearticles in this bag from the time I was very little until now, and forthe sole purpose of giving them, at the end of my life, to a person whohas most exerted herself for me.'"Then the mother gathered together her relatives and herdaughter in law, and said to them what her son had proposed, that shewould give the bag of coins to the person who most exerted herself forher. After this each one of them attended the leprous woman, and the son'smind was put at ease. A little later the leprous woman died.The son's wife stole the bag of coins and hid it. After the corpse wasburied, the son's wife took out the bag of coins.Upon discovering that it contained only fragments of broken plates she wasgreatly saddened.At this time that woman's mother also arrived, and she noisily asked,"Did my daughter receive the bag of coins?" Her daughter told her that shehad been cheated. She showed her the bagof plate fragments, and they both wept. That woman, now angry with herhusband, separated from him, and returned to her own house.