(_page_ 145))Donkey skinOnce upon a time there was a King, so great, so beloved by his people,and so respected by all his neighbours and allies that one mightalmost say he was the happiest monarch alive. His good fortune wasmade even greater by the choice he had made for wife of a Princess asbeautiful as she was virtuous, with whom he lived in perfecthappiness. Now, of this chaste marriage was born a daughter endowedwith so many gifts that they had no regret because other children werenot given to them.Magnificence, good taste, and abundance reigned in the palace. therewere wise and clever ministers, virtuous and devoted courtiers,faithful and diligent servants. The spacious stables were filled withthe most beautiful horses in the world, and coverts of rich caparison.but what most astonished strangers who came to admire them was to see,in the finest stall, a master donkey, with great long ears.Now, it was not for a whim but for a good reason that the King hadgiven this donkey a particular and distinguished place. The specialqualities of this rare animal deserved the distinction, since naturehad made it in so extraordinary a way that its litter, instead ofbeing like that of other donkeys, was covered every morning with anabundance of beautiful golden crowns, and golden louis of every kind,which were collected daily.Since the vicissitudes of life wait on Kings as much as on theirsubjects, and good is always mingled with ill, it so befell that theQueen was suddenly attacked by a fatal illness, and, in spite ofscience, and the skill of the doctors, no remedy could be found. Therewas great mourning throughout the land. The King who, notwithstandingthe famous proverb, that marriage is the tomb of love, was deeplyattached to his wife, was distressed beyond measure and made ferventvows to all the temples in his kingdom, and offered to give his lifefor that of his beloved consort. but he invoked the gods and theFairies in vain. The Queen, feeling her last hour approach, said toher husband, who was dissolved in tears: "It is well that I shouldspeak to you of a certain matter before I die: if, perchance, youshould desire to marry again...." At these words the King broke intopiteous cries, took his wife's hands in his own, and assured her thatit was useless to speak to him of a second marriage."No, my dear spouse," he said at last, "speak to me rather of how Imay follow you.""The State," continued the Queen with a finality which but increasedthe laments of the King, "the State demands successors, and since Ihave only given you a daughter, it will urge you to beget sons whoresemble you. but I ask you earnestly not to give way to thepersuasions of your people until you have found a Princess morebeautiful and more perfectly fashioned than I. I beg you to swear thisto me, and then I shall die content."Perchance, the Queen, who did not lack self esteem, exacted this oathfirmly believing that there was not her equal in the world, and sofelt assured that the King would never marry again. Be this as it may,at length she died, and never did husband make so much lamentation.the King wept and sobbed day and night, and the punctilious fulfilmentof the rites of widower hood, even the smallest, was his soleoccupation.But even great griefs do not last for ever. After a time the magnatesof the State assembled and came to the King, urging him to takeanother wife. At first this request seemed hard to him and made himshed fresh tears. He pleaded the vows he had made to the Queen, anddefied his counsellors to find a Princess more beautiful and betterfashioned than was she, thinking this to be impossible. But theCouncil treated the promise as a trifle, and said that it matteredlittle about beauty if the Queen were but virtuous and fruitful. Forthe State needed Princes for its peace and prosperity, and though, intruth, the Princess, his daughter, had all the qualities requisite formaking a great Queen, yet of necessity she must choose an alien forher husband, and then the stranger would take her away with him. If,on the other hand, he remained in her country and shared the thronewith her, their children would not be considered to be of pure nativestock, and so, there being no Prince of his name, neighbouring peopleswould stir up wars, and the kingdom would be ruined.The King, impressed by these considerations, promised that he wouldthink over the matter. And so search was made among all themarriageable Princesses for one that would suit him. Every daycharming portraits were brought him, but none gave promise of thebeauty of his late Queen. instead of coming to a decision he broodedover his sorrow until in the end his reason left him. In his delusionshe imagined himself once more a young man. he thought the Princess hisdaughter, in her youth and beauty, was his Queen as he had known herin the days of their courtship, and living thus in the past he urgedthe unhappy girl to speedily become his bride.The young Princess, who was virtuous and chaste, threw herself at thefeet of the King her father and conjured him, with all the eloquenceshe could command, not to constrain her to consent to his unnaturaldesire.The King, in his madness, could not understand the reason of herdesperate reluctance, and asked an old Druid priest to set theconscience of the Princess at rest. Now this Druid, less religiousthan ambitious, sacrificed the cause of innocence and virtue to thefavour of so great a monarch, and instead of trying to restore theKing to his right mind, he encouraged him in his delusion.The young Princess, beside herself with misery, at last bethought herof the Lilac fairy, her godmother. determined to consult her, she setout that same night in a pretty little carriage drawn by a great sheepwho knew all the roads. When she arrived the Fairy, who loved thePrincess, told her that she knew all she had come to say, but that sheneed have no fear, for nothing would harm her if only shefaithfully fulfilled the Fairy's injunctions. "For, my dear child,"she said to her, "it would be a great sin to submit to your father'swishes, but you can avoid the necessity without displeasing him. Tellhim that to satisfy a whim you have, he must give you a dress thecolour of the weather. Never, in spite of all his love and his powerwill he be able to give you that."The Princess thanked her godmother from her heart, and the nextmorning spoke to the King as the Fairy had counselled her, andprotested that no one would win her hand unless he gave her a dressthe colour of the weather. The King, overjoyed and hopeful, calledtogether the most skilful workmen, and demanded this robe of them.otherwise they should be hanged. But he was saved from resorting tothis extreme measure, since, on the second day, they brought the muchdesired robe. The heavens are not a more beautiful blue, when they aregirdled with clouds of gold, than was that lovely dress when it wasunfolded. The Princess was very sad because of it, and did not knowwhat to do.Once more she went to her Fairy godmother who, astonished that herplan had been foiled, now told her to ask for another gown the colourof the moon.The King again sought out the most clever workmen and expresslycommanded them to make a dress the colour of the moon. and woe betidethem if between the giving of the order and the bringing of the dressmore than twenty four hours should elapse.The Princess, though pleased with the dress when it was delivered,gave way to distress when she was with her women and her nurse. TheLilac fairy, who knew all, hastened to comfort her and said: "Either Iam greatly deceived or it is certain that if you ask for a dress thecolour of the sun we shall at last baffle the King your father, for itwould never be possible to make such a gown. in any case we shouldgain time."So the Princess asked for yet another gown as the Fairy bade her. Theinfatuated King could refuse his daughter nothing, and he gave withoutregret all the diamonds and rubies in his crown to aid this superbwork. nothing was to be spared that could make the dress as beautifulas the sun. And, indeed, when the dress appeared, all those whounfolded it were obliged to close their eyes, so much were theydazzled. And, truth to tell, green spectacles and smoked glasses datefrom that time.What was the Princess to do? Never had so beautiful and so artistic arobe been seen. She was dumb founded, and pretending that itsbrilliance had hurt her eyes she retired to her chamber, where shefound the Fairy awaiting her.On seeing the dress like the sun, the Lilac fairy became red withrage. "Oh! this time, my child," she said to the Princess, "we willput the King to terrible proof. In spite of his madness I think hewill be a little astonished by the request that I counsel you to makeof him. it is that he should give you the skin of that ass he lovesso dearly, and which supplies him so profusely with the means ofpaying all his expenses. Go, and do not fail to tell him that you wantthis skin." The Princess, overjoyed at finding yet another avenue ofescape. for she thought that her father could never bring himself tosacrifice the ass, went to find him, and unfolded to him her latestdesire.Although the King was astonished by this whim, he did not hesitate tosatisfy it. the poor ass was sacrificed and the skin brought, with dueceremony, to the Princess, who, seeing no other way of avoiding herill fortune, was desperate.At that moment her godmother arrived. "What are you doing, my child?"she asked, seeing the Princess tearing her hair, her beautiful cheeksstained with tears. "This is the most happy moment of your life. Wrapyourself in this skin, leave the palace, and walk so long as you canfind ground to carry you: when one sacrifices everything to virtue thegods know how to mete out reward. Go, and I will take care that yourpossessions follow you. in whatever place you rest, your chest withyour clothes and your jewels will follow your steps, and here is mywand which I will give you: tap the ground with it when you have needof the chest, and it will appear before your eyes: but haste to setforth, and do not delay." The Princess embraced her godmother manytimes, and begged her not to forsake her. Then after she had smearedherself with soot from the chimney, she wrapped herself up in thatugly skin and went out from the magnificent palace without beingrecognised by a single person.The absence of the Princess caused a great commotion. The King, whohad caused a sumptuous banquet to be prepared, was inconsolable. Hesent out more than a hundred gendarmes, and more than a thousandmusketeers in quest of her. but the Lilac fairy made her invisible tothe cleverest seekers, and thus she escaped their vigilance.Meanwhile the Princess walked far, far and even farther away. after atime she sought for a resting place, but although out of charitypeople gave her food, she was so dishevelled and dirty that no onewanted to keep her. At length she came to a beautiful town, at thegate of which was a small farm. Now the farmer's wife had need of awench to wash the dishes and to attend to the geese and the pigs, andseeing so dirty a vagrant offered to engage her. The Princess, who wasnow much fatigued, accepted joyfully. She was put into a recess in thekitchen where for the first days she was subjected to the coarse jokesof the men servants, so dirty and unpleasant did the donkey skin makeher appear. At last they tired of their pleasantries. moreover she wasso attentive to her work that the farmer's wife took her under herprotection. She minded the sheep, and penned them up when it wasnecessary, and she took the geese out to feed with such intelligencethat it seemed as if she had never done anything else. Everything thather beautiful hands undertook was done well.One day she was sitting near a clear fountain where she often repairedto bemoan her sad condition, when she thought she would look atherself in the water. The horrible donkey skin which covered her fromhead to toe revolted her. Ashamed, she washed her face and her hands,which became whiter than ivory, and once again her lovely complexiontook its natural freshness. The joy of finding herself so beautifulfilled her with the desire to bathe in the pool, and this she did. Butshe had to don her unworthy skin again before she returned to thefarm.By good fortune the next day chanced to be a holiday, and so she hadleisure to tap for her chest with the fairy's wand, arrange hertoilet, powder her beautiful hair and put on the lovely gown which wasthe colour of the weather. but the room was so small that the traincould not be properly spread out. The beautiful Princess looked atherself, and with good reason, admired her appearance so much that sheresolved to wear her magnificent dresses in turn on holidays andSundays for her own amusement, and this she regularly did. Sheentwined flowers and diamonds in her lovely hair with admirable art,and often she sighed that she had no witness of her beauty save thesheep and geese, who loved her just as much in the horribledonkey skin after which she had been named at the farm.One holiday when Donkey skin had put on her sun hued dress, the son ofthe King to whom the farm belonged alighted there to rest on hisreturn from the hunt. This Prince was young and handsome, beloved ofhis father and of the Queen his mother, and adored by the people.After he had partaken of the simple collation which was offered him heset out to inspect the farm yard and all its nooks and corners. Ingoing thus from place to place, he entered a dark alley at the bottomof which was a closed door. Curiosity made him put his eye to thekeyhole. Imagine his astonishment at seeing a Princess so beautifuland so richly dressed, and withal of so noble and dignified a mien,that he took her to be a divinity. The impetuosity of his feelings atthis moment would have made him force the door, had it not been forthe respect with which that charming figure filled him.It was with difficulty that he withdrew from this gloomy little alley,intent on discovering who the inmate of the tiny room might be. He wastold that it was a scullion called Donkey skin because of the skinwhich she always wore, and that she was so dirty and unpleasant thatno one took any notice of her, or even spoke to her. she had just beentaken out of pity to look after the geese.The Prince, though little satisfied by this information, saw thatthese dense people knew no more, and that it was useless to questionthem. So he returned to the palace of the King his father, beyondwords in love, having continually before his eyes the beautiful imageof the goddess whom he had seen through the keyhole. He was full ofregret that he had not knocked at the door, and promised himselfthat he would not fail to do so next time. But the fervency of hislove caused him such great agitation that the same night he was seizedby a terrible fever, and was soon at death's door. The Queen, who hadno other child, was in despair because all remedies proved useless. Invain she promised great rewards to the doctors. though they exertedall their skill, nothing would cure the Prince. At last they decidedthat some great sorrow had caused this terrible fever. They told theQueen, who, full of tenderness for her son, went to him and begged himto tell her his trouble. She declared that even if it was a matter ofgiving him the crown, his father would yield the throne to him withoutregret. or if he desired some Princess, even though there should bewar with the King her father and their subjects should, with reason,complain, all should be sacrificed to obtain what he wished. Sheimplored him with tears not to die, since their life depended on his.The Queen did not finish this touching discourse without moving thePrince to tears."Madam," he said at last, in a very feeble voice, "I am not so basethat I desire the crown of my father, rather may Heaven grant him lifefor many years, and that I may always be the most faithful and themost respectful of his subjects! As to the Princesses that you speakof, I have never yet thought of marriage, and you well know that,subject as I am to your wishes, I shall obey you always, even thoughit be painful to me.""Ah! my son," replied the Queen, "we will spare nothing to save yourlife. But, my dear child, save mine and that of the King your fatherby telling me what you desire, and be assured that you shall have it.""Well, Madam," he said, "since you would have me tell you my thought,I obey you. It would indeed be a sin to place in danger two lives sodear to me. Know, my mother, that I wish Donkey skin to make me acake, and to have it brought to me when it is ready."The Queen, astonished at this strange name, asked who Donkey skinmight be."It is, Madam," replied one of her officers who had by chance seenthis girl, "It is the most ugly creature imaginable after the wolf, aslut who lodges at your farm, and minds your geese.""It matters not," said the Queen. "my son, on his way home from thechase, has perchance eaten of her cakes. it is a whim such as thosewho are sick do sometimes have. In a word, I wish that Donkey skin,since Donkey skin it is, make him presently a cake."A messenger ran to the farm and told Donkey skin that she was to makea cake for the Prince as well as she possibly could. Now, some believethat Donkey skin had been aware of the Prince in her heart at themoment when he had put his eye to the keyhole. and then, looking fromher little window, she had seen him, so young, so handsome, and soshapely, that the remembrance of him had remained, and that often thethought of him had cost her some sighs. Be that as it may,Donkey skin, either having seen him, or having heard him spoken ofwith praise, was overjoyed to think that she might become known tohim. She shut herself in her little room, threw off the ugly skin,bathed her face and hands, arranged her hair, put on a beautifulcorsage of bright silver, and an equally beautiful petticoat, and thenset herself to make the much desired cake. She took the finest flour,and newest eggs and freshest butter, and while she was working them,whether by design or no, a ring which she had on her finger fell intothe cake and was mixed in it. When the cooking was done she muffledherself in her horrible skin and gave the cake to the messenger,asking him for news of the Prince. but the man would not deign toreply, and without a word ran quickly back to the palace.The Prince took the cake greedily from the man's hands, and ate itwith such voracity that the doctors who were present did not fail tosay that this haste was not a good sign. Indeed, the Prince came nearto being choked by the ring, which he nearly swallowed, in one of thepieces of cake. But he drew it cleverly from his mouth, and his desirefor the cake was forgotten as he examined the fine emerald set in agold keeper ring, a ring so small that he knew it could only be wornon the prettiest little finger in the world.He kissed the ring a thousand times, put it under his pillow, and drewit out every moment that he thought himself unobserved. The tormentthat he gave himself, planning how he might see her to whom the ringbelonged, not daring to believe that if he asked for Donkey skin shewould be allowed to come, and not daring to speak of what he had seenthrough the keyhole for fear that he would be laughed at for adreamer, brought back the fever with great violence. The doctors, notknowing what more to do, declared to the Queen that the Prince'smalady was love, whereupon the Queen and the disconsolate King ran totheir son."My son, my dear son," cried the affected monarch, "tell us the nameof her whom you desire: we swear that we will give her to you. Eventhough she were the vilest of slaves."The Queen embracing him, agreed with all that the King had said, andthe Prince, moved by their tears and caresses, said to them: "Myfather and my mother, I in no way desire to make a marriage which isdispleasing to you." And drawing the emerald from under his pillow headded: "To prove the truth of this, I desire to marry her to whom thisring belongs. It is not likely that she who owns so pretty a ring is arustic or a peasant."The King and the Queen took the ring, examined it with greatcuriosity, and agreed with the Prince that it could only belong to thedaughter of a good house. Then the King, having embraced his son, andentreated him to get well, went out. He ordered the drums and fifesand trumpets to be sounded throughout the town, and the heralds to crythat she whose finger a certain ring would fit should marry the heirto the throne.First the Princesses arrived, then the duchesses, and the marquises,and the baronesses. but though they did all they could to make theirfingers small, none could put on the ring. So the country girls had tobe tried, but pretty though they all were, they all had fingers thatwere too fat. The Prince, who was feeling better, made the trialhimself. At last it was the turn of the chamber maids. but theysucceeded no better. Then, when everyone else had tried, the Princeasked for the kitchen maids, the scullions, and the sheep girls. Theywere all brought to the palace, but their coarse red, short, fingerswould hardly go through the golden hoop as far as the nail."You have not brought that Donkey skin, who made me the cake," saidthe Prince.Everyone laughed and said, "No," so dirty and unpleasant was she."Let someone fetch her at once," said the King. "it shall not be saidthat I left out the lowliest." And the servants ran laughing andmocking to find the goose girl.The Princess, who had heard the drums and the cries of the heralds,had no doubt that the ring was the cause of this uproar. Now, sheloved the Prince, and, as true love is timorous and has no vanity, shewas in perpetual fear that some other lady would be found to have afinger as small as hers. Great, then, was her joy when the messengerscame and knocked at her door. Since she knew that they were seekingthe owner of the right finger on which to set her ring, some impulsehad moved her to arrange her hair with great care, and to put on herbeautiful silver corsage, and the petticoat full of furbelows andsilver lace studded with emeralds. At the first knock she quicklycovered her finery with the donkey skin and opened the door. Thevisitors, in derision, told her that the King had sent for her inorder to marry her to his son. Then with loud peals of laughter theyled her to the Prince, who was astonished at the garb of this girl,and dared not believe that it was she whom he had seen so majestic andso beautiful. Sad and confounded, he said, "Is it you who lodge at thebottom of that dark alley in the third yard of the farm?""Yes, your Highness," she replied."Show me your hand," said the Prince trembling, and heaving a deepsigh.Imagine how astonished everyone was! The King and the Queen, thechamberlains and all the courtiers were dumb founded, when frombeneath that black and dirty skin came a delicate little white androse pink hand, and the ring slipped without difficulty on to theprettiest little finger in the world. Then, by a little movement whichthe Princess made, the skin fell from her shoulders and so enchantingwas her guise, that the Prince, weak though he was, fell on his kneesand held her so closely that she blushed. But that was scarcelynoticed, for the King and Queen came to embrace her heartily, and toask her if she would marry their son. The Princess, confused by allthese caresses and by the love of the handsome young Prince, was aboutto thank them when suddenly the ceiling opened, and the Lilac fairydescended in a chariot made of the branches and flowers from which shetook her name, and, with great charm, told the Princess's story. TheKing and Queen, overjoyed to know that Donkey skin was a greatPrincess redoubled their caresses, but the Prince was even moresensible of her virtue, and his love increased as the Fairy unfoldedher tale. His impatience to marry her, indeed, was so great that hecould scarcely allow time for the necessary preparations for the grandwedding which was their due. The King and Queen, now entirely devotedto their daughter in law, overwhelmed her with affection. She haddeclared that she could not marry the Prince without the consent ofthe King her father, so, he was the first to whom an invitation to thewedding was sent. he was not, however, told the name of the bride. TheLilac fairy, who, as was right, presided over all, had recommendedthis course to prevent trouble. Kings came from all the countriesround, some in sedan chairs, others in beautiful carriages. those whocame from the most distant countries rode on elephants and tigers andeagles. But the most magnificent and most glorious of all was thefather of the Princess. He had happily recovered his reason, and hadmarried a Queen who was a widow and very beautiful, but by whom hehad no child. The Princess ran to him, and he recognised her at onceand embraced her with great tenderness before she had time to throwherself on her knees. The King and Queen presented their son to him,and the happiness of all was complete. The nuptials were celebratedwith all imaginable pomp, but the young couple were hardly aware ofthe ceremony, so wrapped up were they in one another.In spite of the protests of the noble hearted young man, the Prince'sfather caused his son to be crowned the same day, and kissing hishand, placed him on the throne.The celebrations of this illustrious marriage lasted nearly threemonths, but the love of the two young people would have endured formore than a hundred years, had they out lived that age, so great wastheir affection for one another.