BEHIND THE HANGINGS" (_page 50_))The Sleeping Beauty in the WoodThere were formerly a King and a Queen, who were so sorry that theyhad no children, so sorry that it cannot be expressed. They went toall the waters in the world. vows, pilgrimages, all ways were triedand all to no purpose. At last, however, the Queen proved with child,and was brought to bed of a daughter. There was a very finechristening. and the Princess had for her godmothers all the Fairiesthey could find in the whole kingdom (they found seven), that everyone of them might give her a gift, as was the custom of Fairies inthose days, and that by this means the Princess might have all theperfections imaginable.After the ceremonies of the christening were over, all the companyreturned to the King's palace, where was prepared a great feast forthe Fairies. There was placed before every one of them a magnificentcover with a case of massive gold, wherein were a spoon, knife andfork, all of pure gold set with diamonds and rubies. But as they wereall sitting down at table, they saw come into the hall a very oldFairy whom they had not invited, because it was above fifty yearssince she had been out of a certain tower, and she was believed to beeither dead or inchanted. The King ordered her a cover, but could notfurnish her with a case of gold as the others, because they had sevenonly made for the seven Fairies. The old Fairy fancied she wasslighted, and muttered some threat between her teeth. One of the youngFairies, who sat by her, overheard how she grumbled. and judging thatshe might give the little Princess some unlucky gift, went, as soon asthey rose from the table, and hid herself behind the hangings, thatshe might speak last, and repair, as much as possible she could, theevil which the old Fairy might intend.In the mean while all the Fairies began to give their gifts to thePrincess. The youngest gave her for gift, that she should be the mostbeautiful person in the world. the next, that she should have the witof an angel. the third, that she should have a wonderful grace inevery thing she did. the fourth, that she should dance perfectly well.the fifth, that she should sing like a nightingale. and the sixth,that she should play upon all kinds of music to the utmost perfection.The old Fairy's turn coming next, with a head shaking more with spitethan age, she said, that the Princess should have her hand piercedwith a spindle, and die of the wound. This terrible gift made thewhole company tremble, and every body fell a crying.At this very instant the young Fairy came out from behind thehangings, and spake these words aloud:"Be reassured, O King and Queen. your daughter shall not die of thisdisaster: it is true, I have no power to undo intirely what my elderhas done. The Princess shall indeed pierce her hand with a spindle.but instead of dying, she shall only fall into a profound sleep, whichshall last a hundred years. at the expiration of which a king's sonshall come and awake her."The King, to avoid the misfortune foretold by the old Fairy, causedimmediately proclamations to be made, whereby every body wasforbidden, on pain of death, to spin with a distaff and spindle or tohave so much as any spindle in their houses.About fifteen or sixteen years after, the King and Queen being gone toone of their houses of pleasure, the young Princess happened one dayto divert herself running up and down the palace. when going up fromone apartment to another, she came into a little room on the top of atower, where a good old woman, alone, was spinning with her spindle.This good woman had never heard of the King's proclamation againstspindles."What are you doing there, Goody?" said the Princess."I am spinning, my pretty child," said the old woman, who did not knowwho she was."Ha!" said the Princess, "this is very pretty. how do you do it? Giveit to me, that I may see if I can do so." She had no sooner taken thespindle into her hand, than, whether being very hasty at it, somewhatunhandy, or that the decree of the Fairy had so ordained it, it raninto her hand, and she fell down in a swoon.The good old woman not knowing very well what to do in this affair,cried out for help. People came in from every quarter in greatnumbers. they threw water upon the Princess's face, unlaced her,struck her on the palms of her hands, and rubbed her temples withHungary water. but nothing would bring her to herself.And now the King, who came up at the noise, bethought himself of theprediction of the Fairies, and judging very well that this mustnecessarily come to pass, since the Fairies had said it, caused thePrincess to be carried into the finest apartment in his palace, and tobe laid upon a bed all embroidered with gold and silver. One wouldhave taken her for an angel, she was so very beautiful. for herswooning away had not diminished one bit of her complexion. her cheekswere carnation, and her lips like coral. indeed her eyes were shut,but she was heard to breathe softly, which satisfied those about herthat she was not dead. The King commanded that they should not disturbher, but let her sleep quietly till her hour of awakening was come.The good Fairy, who had saved her life by condemning her to sleep ahundred years, was in the kingdom of Matakin, twelve thousand leaguesoff, when this accident befell the Princess. but she was instantlyinformed of it by a little dwarf, who had boots of seven leagues, thatis, boots with which he could tread over seven leagues of ground atone stride. The Fairy came away immediately, and she arrived, about anhour after, in a fiery chariot, drawn by dragons. The King handed herout of the chariot, and she approved every thing he had done. but, asshe had a very great foresight, she thought, when the Princess shouldawake, she might not know what to do with herself, being all alone inthis old palace. and this was what she did: She touched with her wandevery thing in the palace (except the King and the Queen),governesses, maids of honour, ladies of the bedchamber, gentlemen,officers, stewards, cooks, under cooks, scullions, guards, with theirbeef eaters, pages, footmen. she likewise touched all the horses whichwere in the stables, as well as their grooms, the great dogs in theoutward court, and pretty little Mopsey too, the Princess's littlespaniel bitch, which lay by her on the bed.Immediately upon her touching them, they all fell asleep, that theymight not awake before their mistress, and that they might be ready towait upon her when she wanted them. The very spits at the fire, asfull as they could hold of partridges and pheasants, did fall asleep,and the fire likewise. All this was done in a moment. Fairies are notlong in doing their business.And now the King and the Queen, having kissed their dear child withoutwaking her, went out of the palace, and put forth a proclamation, thatnobody should dare to come near it. This, however, was not necessary.for, in a quarter of an hour's time, there grew up, all round aboutthe park, such a vast number of trees, great and small, bushes andbrambles, twining one within another, that neither man nor beast couldpass thro'. so that nothing could be seen but the very top of thetowers of the palace. and that too, not unless it was a good way off.Nobody doubted but the Fairy gave herein a sample of her art, that thePrincess, while she continued sleeping, might have nothing to fearfrom any curious people.When a hundred years were gone and past, the son of the King thenreigning, and who was of another family from that of the sleepingPrincess, being gone a hunting on that side of the country, asked,what were those towers which he saw in the middle of a great thickwood? Every one answered according as they had heard. some said thatit was a ruinous old castle, haunted by spirits. others, that all thesorcerers and witches of the country kept there their sabbath, ornights meeting. The common opinion was that an Ogre lived there,and that he carried thither all the little children he could catch,that he might eat them up at his leisure, without any body's beingable to follow him, as having himself, only, the power to pass thro'the wood.(Footnote 1: OGRE is a giant, with long teeth and claws, with a rawhead and bloody bones, who runs away with naughty little boys andgirls, and eats them up.The Prince was at a stand, not knowing what to believe, when a veryaged countryman spake to him thus: "May it please your Royal Highness,it is now above fifty years since I heard my father, who had heard mygrandfather, say that there then was in this castle, a Princess, themost beautiful was ever seen. that she must sleep there a hundredyears, and should be awaked by a king's son. for whom she wasreserved." The young Prince was all on fire at these words, believing,without a moment's doubt, that he could put an end to this rareadventure. and pushed on by love and honour resolved that moment tolook into it.Scarce had he advanced towards the wood, when all the great trees, thebushes and brambles, gave way of themselves to let him pass thro'. hewalked up to the castle which he saw at the end of a large avenuewhich he went into. and what a little surprised him was, that he sawnone of his people could follow him, because the trees closed again,as soon as he had pass'd thro' them. However, he did not cease fromcontinuing his way. a young and amorous Prince is always valiant. Hecame into a spacious outward court, where everything he saw might havefrozen up the most fearless person with horror. There reigned over alla most frightful silence. the image of death everywhere shewed itself,and there was nothing to be seen but stretched out bodies of men andanimals, all seeming to be dead. He, however, very well knew, by theruby faces and pimpled noses of the beef eaters, that they were onlyasleep. and their goblets, wherein still remained some drops of wine,shewed plainly, that they fell asleep in their cups.He then crossed a court paved with marble, went up the stairs, andcame into the guard chamber, where the guards were standing in theirranks, with their muskets upon their shoulders, and snoring as loud asthey could. After that he went through several rooms full of gentlemenand ladies, all asleep, some standing, others sitting. At last he cameinto a chamber all gilded with gold, where he saw, upon a bed, thecurtains of which were all open, the finest sight was ever beheld: aPrincess, who appeared to be about fifteen or sixteen years of age,and whose bright, and in a manner resplendent beauty, had somewhat init divine. He approached with trembling and admiration, and fell downbefore her upon his knees.And now, as the inchantment was at an end, the Princess awaked, andlooking on him with eyes more tender than the first view might seem toadmit of: "Is it you, my Prince," said she to him, "you have tarriedlong."The Prince, charmed with these words, and much more with the manner inwhich they were spoken, knew not how to shew his joy and gratitude. heassured her, that he loved her better than he did himself. hisdiscourse was not well connected, but it pleased her all the more.little eloquence, a great deal of love. He was more at a loss thanshe, and we need not wonder at it. she had time to think on what tosay to him. for it is very probable (though history mentions nothingof it) that the good Fairy, during so long a sleep, had entertainedher with pleasant dreams. In short, when they talked four hourstogether, they said not half what they had to say.In the mean while, all the palace awaked. every one thought upon theirparticular business. and as all of them were not in love, they wereready to die for hunger. the chief lady of honour, being as sharp setas other folks, grew very impatient, and told the Princess aloud,That supper was served up. The Prince helped the Princess to rise, shewas entirely dressed, and very magnificently, but his Royal Highnesstook care not to tell her that she was dressed like his greatgrand mother, and had a point band peeping over a high collar. shelooked not a bit the less beautiful and charming for all that.They went into the great hall of looking glasses, where they supped,and were served by the Princess's officers. the violins and hautboysplayed old tunes, but very excellent, tho' it was now above a hundredyears since they had been played. and after supper, without losing anytime, the lord almoner married them in the chapel of the castle, andthe chief lady of honour drew the curtains. They had but very littlesleep. the Princess had no occasion, and the Prince left her nextmorning to return into the city, where his father must needs have beenanxious on his account. The Prince told him that he lost his way inthe forest, as he was hunting, and that he had lain at the cottage ofa collier, who gave him cheese and brown bread.The King his father, who was of an easy disposition, believed him. buthis mother could not be persuaded this was true. and seeing that hewent almost every day a hunting, and that he always had some excuseready when he had laid out three or four nights together, she nolonger doubted he had some little amour, for he lived with thePrincess above two whole years, and had by her two children, theeldest of which, who was a daughter, was named Aurora, and theyoungest, who was a son, they called Day, because he was evenhandsomer and more beautiful than his sister.The Queen said more than once to her son, in order to bring him tospeak freely to her, that a young man must e'en take his pleasure. buthe never dared to trust her with his secret. he feared her, tho' heloved her. for she was of the race of the Ogres, and the King wouldnever have married her, had it not been for her vast riches. it waseven whispered about the court, that she had Ogreish inclinations, andthat, whenever she saw little children passing by, she had all thedifficulty in the world to refrain from falling upon them. And so thePrince would never tell her one word.But when the King was dead, which happened about two years afterwards.and he saw himself lord and master, he openly declared his marriage.and he went in great ceremony to fetch his Queen from the castle. Theymade a magnificent entry into the capital city, she riding between hertwo children.Some time after, the King went to make war with the EmperorCantalabutte, his neighbour. He left the government of the kingdom tothe Queen his mother, and earnestly recommended to her care his wifeand children. He was like to be at war all the summer, and as soon ashe departed, the Queen mother sent her daughter in law and herchildren to a country house among the woods, that she might with themore ease gratify her horrible longing.(: "'I WILL HAVE IT SO,' REPLIED THE QUEEN, 'AND WILL EATHER WITH A SAUCE ROBERT'")Some few days afterwards she went thither herself, and said to herclerk of the kitchen:"I have a mind to eat little Aurora for my dinner to morrow.""Ah! Madam," cried the clerk of the kitchen."I will have it so," replied the Queen (and this she spake in the toneof an Ogress, who had a strong desire to eat fresh meat), "and willeat her with a Sauce Robert."(Footnote 2: This is a French sauce, made with onions shredded andboiled tender in butter, to which is added vinegar, mustard, salt,pepper, and a little wine.The poor man knowing very well that he must not play tricks withOgresses, took his great knife and went up into little Aurora'schamber. She was then four years old, and came up to him jumping andlaughing, to take him about the neck, and ask him for somesugar candy. Upon which he began to weep, the great knife fell out ofhis hand, and he went into the back yard, and killed a little lamb,and dressed it with such good sauce, that his mistress assured him shehad never eaten anything so good in her life. He had at the same timetaken up little Aurora, and carried her to his wife, to conceal her inthe lodging he had at the end of the court yard.About eight days afterwards, the wicked Queen said to the clerk of thekitchen:"I will sup upon little Day."He answered not a word, being resolved to cheat her, as he had donebefore. He went to find out little Day, and saw him with a littlefoil in his hand, with which he was fencing with a great monkey. thechild being then only three years of age. He took him up in his arms,and carried him to his wife, that she might conceal him in her chamberalong with his sister, and in the room of little Day cooked up a youngkid very tender, which the Ogress found to be wonderfully good.This was hitherto all mighty well: but one evening this wicked Queensaid to her clerk of the kitchen:"I will eat the Queen with the same sauce I had with her children."It was now that the poor clerk of the kitchen despaired of being ableto deceive her. The young Queen was turned of twenty, not reckoningthe hundred years she had been asleep: her skin was somewhat tough,tho' very fair and white. and how to find in the yard a beast so firm,was what puzzled him. He took then a resolution, that he might savehis own life, to cut the Queen's throat. and going up into herchamber, with intent to do it at once, he put himself into as great afury as he could possibly, and came into the young Queen's room withhis dagger in his hand. He would not, however, surprise her, but toldher, with a great deal of respect, the orders he had received from theQueen mother."Do it, do it," said she stretching out her neck, "execute yourorders, and then I shall go and see my children, my poor children,whom I so much and so tenderly loved," for she thought them dead eversince they had been taken away without her knowledge."No, no, Madam," cried the poor clerk of the kitchen, all in tears,"you shall not die, and yet you shall see your children again. but itmust be in my lodgings, where I have concealed them, and I shalldeceive the Queen once more, by giving her in your stead a younghind."Upon this he forthwith conducted her to his chamber. where leaving herto embrace her children, and cry along with them, he went and dresseda hind, which the Queen had for her supper, and devoured it with thesame appetite, as if it had been the young Queen. Exceedingly was shedelighted with her cruelty, and she had invented a story to tell theKing, at his return, how ravenous wolves had eaten up the Queen hiswife, and her two children.One evening, as she was, according to her custom, rambling round aboutthe courts and yards of the palace, to see if she could smell anyfresh meat, she heard, in a ground room little Day crying, for hismamma was going to whip him, because he had been naughty. and sheheard, at the same time, little Aurora begging pardon for her brother.The Ogress presently knew the voice of the Queen and her children, andbeing quite mad that she had been thus deceived, she commanded nextmorning, by break of day (with a most horrible voice, which made everybody tremble) that they should bring into the middle of the greatcourt a large tub, which she caused to be filled with toads, vipers,snakes, and all sorts of serpents, in order to have thrown into it theQueen and her children, the clerk of the kitchen, his wife and maid.all whom she had given orders should be brought thither with theirhands tied behind them.They were brought out accordingly, and the executioners were justgoing to throw them into the tub, when the King (who was not so soonexpected) entered the court on horse back (for he came post) andasked, with the utmost astonishment, what was the meaning of thathorrible spectacle? No one dared to tell him. when the Ogress, allinraged to see what had happened, threw herself head foremost into thetub, and was instantly devoured by the ugly creatures she had orderedto be thrown into it for others. The King could not but be very sorry,for she was his mother. but he soon comforted himself with hisbeautiful wife, and his pretty children.