THUNDERBOLTS")The Ridiculous WishesIn days long past there lived a poor woodcutter who found life veryhard. Indeed, it was his lot to toil for little guerdon, and althoughhe was young and happily married there were moments when he wishedhimself dead and below ground.One day while at his work he was again lamenting his fate."Some men," he said, "have only to make known their desires, andstraightway these are granted, and their every wish fulfilled. but ithas availed me little to wish for ought, for the gods are deaf to theprayers of such as I."As he spoke these words there was a great noise of thunder, andJupiter appeared before him wielding his mighty thunderbolts. Our poorman was stricken with fear and threw himself on the ground."My lord," he said, "forget my foolish speech. heed not my wishes, butcease thy thundering!""Have no fear," answered Jupiter. "I have heard thy plaint, and havecome hither to show thee how greatly thou dost wrong me. Hark! I, whoam sovereign lord of this world, promise to grant in full the firstthree wishes which it will please thee to utter, whatever these maybe. Consider well what things can bring thee joy and prosperity, andas thy happiness is at stake, be not over hasty, but revolve thematter in thy mind."Having thus spoken Jupiter withdrew himself and made his ascent toOlympus. As for our woodcutter, he blithely corded his faggot, andthrowing it over his shoulder, made for his home. To one so light ofheart the load also seemed light, and his thoughts were merry as hestrode along. Many a wish came into his mind, but he was resolved toseek the advice of his wife, who was a young woman of goodunderstanding.He had soon reached his cottage, and casting down his faggot:"Behold me, Fanny," he said. "Make up the fire and spread the board,and let there be no stint. We are wealthy, Fanny, wealthy forevermore. we have only to wish for whatsoever we may desire."Thereupon he told her the story of what had befallen that day. Fanny,whose mind was quick and active, immediately conceived many plans forthe advancement of their fortune, but she approved her husband'sresolve to act with prudence and circumspection."'Twere a pity," she said, "to spoil our chances through impatience.We had best take counsel of the night, and wish no wishes untilto morrow.""That is well spoken," answered Harry. "Meanwhile fetch a bottle ofour best, and we shall drink to our good fortune."Fanny brought a bottle from the store behind the faggots, and our manenjoyed his ease, leaning back in his chair with his toes to the fireand his goblet in his hand.(: "A LONG BLACK PUDDING CAME WINDING AND WRIGGLINGTOWARDS HER")"What fine glowing embers!" he said, "and what a fine toasting fire! Iwish we had a black pudding at hand."Hardly had he spoken these words when his wife beheld, to her greatastonishment, a long black pudding which, issuing from a corner of thehearth, came winding and wriggling towards her. She uttered a cry offear, and then again exclaimed in dismay, when she perceived that thisstrange occurrence was due to the wish which her husband had so rashlyand foolishly spoken. Turning upon him, in her anger anddisappointment she called the poor man all the abusive names that shecould think of."What!" she said to him, "when you can call for a kingdom, for gold,pearls, rubies, diamonds, for princely garments and wealth untold, isthis the time to set your mind upon black puddings!""Nay!" answered the man, "'twas a thoughtless speech, and a sadmistake. but I shall now be on my guard, and shall do better nexttime.""Who knows that you will?" returned his wife. "Once a witless fool,always a witless fool!" and giving free rein to her vexation andill temper she continued to upbraid her husband until his anger alsowas stirred, and he had wellnigh made a second bid and wished himselfa widower."Enough! woman," he cried at last. "put a check upon thy frowardtongue! Who ever heard such impertinence as this! A plague on theshrew and on her pudding! Would to heaven it hung at the end of hernose!"No sooner had the husband given voice to these words than the wish wasstraightway granted, and the long coil of black pudding appearedgrafted to the angry dame's nose.Our man paused when he beheld what he had wrought. Fanny was a comelyyoung woman, and blest with good looks, and truth to tell, this newornament did not set off her beauty. Yet it offered one advantage,that as it hung right before her mouth, it would thus effectively curbher speech.So, having now but one wish left, he had all but resolved to make gooduse of it without further delay, and, before any other mischance couldbefall, to wish himself a kingdom of his own. He was about to speakthe word, when he was stayed by a sudden thought."It is true," he said to himself, "that there is none so great as aKing, but what of the Queen that must share his dignity? With whatgrace would she sit beside me on the throne with a yard of blackpudding for a nose?"In this dilemma he resolved to put the case to Fanny, and to leave herto decide whether she would rather be a Queen, with this most horribleappendage marring her good looks, or remain a peasant wife, but withher shapely nose relieved of this untoward addition.(: "TRUTH TO TELL, THIS NEW ORNAMENT DID NOT SET OFF HERBEAUTY")Fanny's mind was soon made up: although she had dreamt of a crownand sceptre, yet a woman's first wish is always to please. To thisgreat desire all else must yield, and Fanny would rather be fair indrugget than be a Queen with an ugly face.Thus our woodcutter did not change his state, did not become apotentate, nor fill his purse with golden crowns. He was thankfulenough to use his remaining wish to a more humble purpose, andforthwith relieved his wife of her encumbrance.