(_page 30_))The FairyThere was, once upon a time, a widow, who had two daughters. Theeldest was so much like her in the face and humour, that whoeverlooked upon the daughter saw the mother. They were both sodisagreeable, and so proud, that there was no living with them. Theyoungest, who was the very picture of her father, for courtesy andsweetness of temper, was withal one of the most beautiful girls everseen. As people naturally love their own likeness, this mother evendoated on her eldest daughter, and at the same time had a horribleaversion for the youngest. She made her eat in the kitchen, and workcontinually.Among other things, this poor child was forced twice a day to drawwater above a mile and a half off the house, and bring home a pitcherfull of it. One day, as she was at this fountain, there came to her apoor woman, who begged of her to let her drink."O ay, with all my heart, Goody," said this pretty maid. and rinsingimmediately the pitcher, she took up some water from the clearestplace of the fountain, and gave it to her, holding up the pitcher allthe while, that she might drink the easier.The good woman having drank, said to her:"You are so very pretty, my dear, so good and so mannerly, that Icannot help giving you a gift" (for this was a Fairy, who had takenthe form of a poor country woman, to see how far the civility andgood manners of this pretty girl would go). "I will give you forgift," continued the Fairy, "that at every word you speak, there shallcome out of your mouth either a flower, or a jewel."When this pretty girl came home, her mother scolded at her for stayingso long at the fountain."I beg your pardon, mamma," said the poor girl, "for not making morehaste," and, in speaking these words, there came out of her mouth tworoses, two pearls, and two diamonds."What is this I see?" said her mother quite astonished, "I think I seepearls and diamonds come out of the girl's mouth! How happens this,child?" (This was the first time she ever called her child.)The poor creature told her frankly all the matter, not withoutdropping out infinite numbers of diamonds."In good faith," cried the mother, "I must send my child thither. Comehither, Fanny, look what comes out of thy sister's mouth when shespeaks! Would'st not thou be glad, my dear, to have the same giftgiven to thee? Thou hast nothing else to do but go and draw water outof the fountain, and when a certain poor woman asks thee to let herdrink, to give it her very civilly.""It would be a very fine sight indeed," said this ill bred minx, "tosee me go draw water!""You shall go, hussey," said the mother, "and this minute."So away she went, but grumbling all the way, taking with her the bestsilver tankard in the house.She was no sooner at the fountain, than she saw coming out of the wooda lady most gloriously dressed, who came up to her, and asked todrink. This was, you must know, the very Fairy who appeared to hersister, but had now taken the air and dress of a princess, to see howfar this girl's rudeness would go."Am I come hither," said the proud, saucy slut, "to serve you withwater, pray? I suppose the silver tankard was brought purely for yourladyship, was it? However, you may drink out of it, if you have afancy.""You are not over and above mannerly," answered the Fairy, withoutputting herself in a passion. "Well then, since you have so littlebreeding, and are so disobliging, I give you for gift, that at everyword you speak there shall come out of your mouth a snake or a toad."So soon as her mother saw her coming, she cried out: "Well, daughter?""Well, mother?" answered the pert hussey, throwing out of her mouthtwo vipers and two toads."O mercy!" cried the mother, "what is it I see! O, it is that wretchher sister who has occasioned all this. but she shall pay for it". andimmediately she ran to beat her. The poor child fled away from her andwent to hide herself in the forest, not far from thence.The King's son, then on his return from hunting, met her, and seeingher so very pretty, asked her what she did there alone, and why shecried."Alas! sir, my mamma has turned me out of doors."The King's son, who saw five or six pearls, and as many diamonds, comeout of her mouth, desired her to tell him how that happened. Shethereupon told him the whole story. and so the King's son fell in lovewith her. and, considering with himself that such a gift was worthmore than any marriage portion whatsoever in another, conducted her tothe palace of the King his father, and there married her.As for her sister, she made herself so much hated that her own motherturned her off. and the miserable wretch, having wandered about a goodwhile without finding anybody to take her in, went to a corner in thewood and there died.