children, and you will know.Pinocchio, as soon as he had said good by to his good friend, the Tunny,tottered away in the darkness and began to walk as well as he couldtoward the faint light which glowed in the distance.As he walked his feet splashed in a pool of greasy and slippery water,which had such a heavy smell of fish fried in oil that Pinocchio thoughtit was Lent.The farther on he went, the brighter and clearer grew the tiny light. Onand on he walked till finally he found I give you a thousand guesses,my dear children! He found a little table set for dinner and lighted bya candle stuck in a glass bottle. and near the table sat a little oldman, white as the snow, eating live fish. They wriggled so that, now andagain, one of them slipped out of the old man's mouth and escaped intothe darkness under the table.At this sight, the poor Marionette was filled with such great and suddenhappiness that he almost dropped in a faint. He wanted to laugh, hewanted to cry, he wanted to say a thousand and one things, but all hecould do was to stand still, stuttering and stammering brokenly. Atlast, with a great effort, he was able to let out a scream of joy and,opening wide his arms he threw them around the old man's neck."Oh, Father, dear Father! Have I found you at last? Now I shall never,never leave you again!""Are my eyes really telling me the truth?" answered the old man, rubbinghis eyes. "Are you really my own dear Pinocchio?""Yes, yes, yes! It is I! Look at me! And you have forgiven me, haven'tyou? Oh, my dear Father, how good you are! And to think that I Oh, butif you only knew how many misfortunes have fallen on my head and howmany troubles I have had! Just think that on the day you sold your oldcoat to buy me my A B C book so that I could go to school, I ran away tothe Marionette Theater and the proprietor caught me and wanted to burnme to cook his roast lamb! He was the one who gave me the five goldpieces for you, but I met the Fox and the Cat, who took me to the Inn ofthe Red Lobster. There they ate like wolves and I left the Inn aloneand I met the Assassins in the wood. I ran and they ran after me, alwaysafter me, till they hanged me to the branch of a giant oak tree. Thenthe Fairy of the Azure Hair sent the coach to rescue me and the doctors,after looking at me, said, 'If he is not dead, then he is surely alive,'and then I told a lie and my nose began to grow. It grew and it grew,till I couldn't get it through the door of the room. And then I wentwith the Fox and the Cat to the Field of Wonders to bury the goldpieces. The Parrot laughed at me and, instead of two thousand goldpieces, I found none. When the Judge heard I had been robbed, he sentme to jail to make the thieves happy. and when I came away I saw a finebunch of grapes hanging on a vine. The trap caught me and the Farmer puta collar on me and made me a watchdog. He found out I was innocent whenI caught the Weasels and he let me go. The Serpent with the tail thatsmoked started to laugh and a vein in his chest broke and so I went backto the Fairy's house. She was dead, and the Pigeon, seeing me crying,said to me, 'I have seen your father building a boat to look for you inAmerica,' and I said to him, 'Oh, if I only had wings!' and he said tome, 'Do you want to go to your father?' and I said, 'Perhaps, but how?'and he said, 'Get on my back. I'll take you there.' We flew all nightlong, and next morning the fishermen were looking toward the sea,crying, 'There is a poor little man drowning,' and I knew it was you,because my heart told me so and I waved to you from the shore ""I knew you also," put in Geppetto, "and I wanted to go to you. but howcould I? The sea was rough and the whitecaps overturned the boat. Thena Terrible Shark came up out of the sea and, as soon as he saw me in thewater, swam quickly toward me, put out his tongue, and swallowed me aseasily as if I had been a chocolate peppermint.""And how long have you been shut away in here?""From that day to this, two long weary years two years, my Pinocchio,which have been like two centuries.""And how have you lived? Where did you find the candle? And the matcheswith which to light it where did you get them?""You must know that, in the storm which swamped my boat, a large shipalso suffered the same fate. The sailors were all saved, but the shipwent right to the bottom of the sea, and the same Terrible Shark thatswallowed me, swallowed most of it.""What! Swallowed a ship?" asked Pinocchio in astonishment."At one gulp. The only thing he spat out was the main mast, for itstuck in his teeth. To my own good luck, that ship was loaded with meat,preserved foods, crackers, bread, bottles of wine, raisins, cheese,coffee, sugar, wax candles, and boxes of matches. With all theseblessings, I have been able to live happily on for two whole years, butnow I am at the very last crumbs. Today there is nothing left in thecupboard, and this candle you see here is the last one I have.""And then?""And then, my dear, we'll find ourselves in darkness.""Then, my dear Father," said Pinocchio, "there is no time to lose. Wemust try to escape.""Escape! How?""We can run out of the Shark's mouth and dive into the sea.""You speak well, but I cannot swim, my dear Pinocchio.""Why should that matter? You can climb on my shoulders and I, who am afine swimmer, will carry you safely to the shore.""Dreams, my boy!" answered Geppetto, shaking his head and smiling sadly."Do you think it possible for a Marionette, a yard high, to have thestrength to carry me on his shoulders and swim?""Try it and see! And in any case, if it is written that we must die, weshall at least die together."Not adding another word, Pinocchio took the candle in his hand and goingahead to light the way, he said to his father:"Follow me and have no fear."They walked a long distance through the stomach and the whole body ofthe Shark. When they reached the throat of the monster, they stopped fora while to wait for the right moment in which to make their escape.I want you to know that the Shark, being very old and suffering fromasthma and heart trouble, was obliged to sleep with his mouth open.Because of this, Pinocchio was able to catch a glimpse of the sky filledwith stars, as he looked up through the open jaws of his new home."The time has come for us to escape," he whispered, turning to hisfather. "The Shark is fast asleep. The sea is calm and the night isas bright as day. Follow me closely, dear Father, and we shall soon besaved."No sooner said than done. They climbed up the throat of the monster tillthey came to that immense open mouth. There they had to walk on tiptoes,for if they tickled the Shark's long tongue he might awaken and wherewould they be then? The tongue was so wide and so long that it lookedlike a country road. The two fugitives were just about to dive into thesea when the Shark sneezed very suddenly and, as he sneezed, he gavePinocchio and Geppetto such a jolt that they found themselves thrownon their backs and dashed once more and very unceremoniously into thestomach of the monster.To make matters worse, the candle went out and father and son were leftin the dark."And now?" asked Pinocchio with a serious face."Now we are lost.""Why lost? Give me your hand, dear Father, and be careful not to slip!""Where will you take me?""We must try again. Come with me and don't be afraid."With these words Pinocchio took his father by the hand and, alwayswalking on tiptoes, they climbed up the monster's throat for a secondtime. They then crossed the whole tongue and jumped over three rows ofteeth. But before they took the last great leap, the Marionette said tohis father:"Climb on my back and hold on tightly to my neck. I'll take care ofeverything else."As soon as Geppetto was comfortably seated on his shoulders, Pinocchio,very sure of what he was doing, dived into the water and started toswim. The sea was like oil, the moon shone in all splendor, and theShark continued to sleep so soundly that not even a cannon shot wouldhave awakened him.My father had a small estate in Nottinghamshire, and I was the thirdof four sons. He sent me to Cambridge at fourteen years old, and afterstudying there three years I was bound apprentice to Mr. Bates, a famoussurgeon in London. There, as my father now and then sent me small sumsof money, I spent them in learning navigation, and other arts useful tothose who travel, as I always believed it would be some time or other myfortune to do.Three years after my leaving him my good master, Mr. Bates, recommendedme as ship's surgeon to the "Swallow," on which I voyaged three years.When I came back I settled in London, and, having taken part of asmall house, I married Miss Mary Burton, daughter of Mr. Edmund Burton,hosier.But my good master Bates died two years after. and as I had few friendsmy business began to fail, and I determined to go again to sea. Afterseveral voyages, I accepted an offer from Captain W. Pritchard, masterof the "Antelope," who was making a voyage to the South Sea. We set sailfrom Bristol, May 4, 1699. and our voyage at first was very prosperous.But in our passage to the East Indies we were driven by a violent stormto the north west of Van Diemen's Land. Twelve of our crew died fromhard labor and bad food, and the rest were in a very weak condition.On the 5th of November, the weather being very hazy, the seamen spieda rock within 120 yards of the ship. but the wind was so strong that wewere driven straight upon it, and immediately split. Six of the crew,of whom I was one, letting down the boat, got clear of the ship, and werowed about three leagues, till we could work no longer. We thereforetrusted ourselves to the mercy of the waves. and in about half an hourthe boat was upset by a sudden squall. What became of my companions inthe boat, or those who escaped on the rock or were left in the vessel,I cannot tell. but I conclude they were all lost. For my part, I swam asfortune directed me, and was pushed forward by wind and tide. but whenI was able to struggle no longer I found myself within my depth. By thistime the storm was much abated. I reached the shore at last, about eighto'clock in the evening, and advanced nearly half a mile inland, butcould not discover any sign of inhabitants. I was extremely tired, andwith the heat of the weather I found myself much inclined to sleep. Ilay down on the grass, which was very short and soft, and slept sounderthan ever I did in my life for about nine hours. When I woke, it wasjust daylight. I attempted to rise, but could not. for as I happened tobe lying on my back, I found my arms and legs were fastened on each sideto the ground. and my hair, which was long and thick, tied down in thesame manner. I could only look upward. The sun began to grow hot, andthe light hurt my eyes. I heard a confused noise about me, but couldsee nothing except the sky. In a little time I felt something aliveand moving on my left leg, which, advancing gently over my breast, camealmost up to my chin, when, bending my eyes downward, I perceived it tobe a human creature, not six inches high, with a bow and arrow in hishands, and a quiver at his back. In the meantime I felt at least fortymore following the first. I was in the utmost astonishment, and roaredso loud that they all ran back in a fright. and some of them werehurt with the falls they got by leaping from my sides upon the ground.However, they soon returned, and one of them, who ventured so far as toget a full sight of my face, lifted up his hands in admiration. I layall this while in great uneasiness. but at length, struggling to getloose, I succeeded in breaking the strings that fastened my left armto the ground. and at the same time, with a violent pull that gave meextreme pain, I a little loosened the strings that tied down my hair, sothat I was just able to turn my head about two inches. But the creaturesran off a second time before I could seize them, whereupon there was agreat shout, and in an instant I felt above a hundred arrows dischargedon my left hand, which pricked me like so many needles. Moreover, theyshot another flight into the air, of which some fell on my face, whichI immediately covered with my left hand. When this shower of arrowswas over I groaned with grief and pain, and then, striving again to getloose, they discharged another flight of arrows larger than the first,and some of them tried to stab me with their spears. but by good luckI had on a leather jacket, which they could not pierce. By this timeI thought it most prudent to lie still till night, when, my lefthand being already loose, I could easily free myself. and as for theinhabitants, I thought I might be a match for the greatest army theycould bring against me if they were all of the same size as him Isaw. When the people observed that I was quiet they discharged no morearrows, but by the noise I heard I knew that their number was increased.and about four yards from me, for more than an hour, there was aknocking, like people at work. Then, turning my head that way as wellas the pegs and strings would let me, I saw a stage set up, about a footand a half from the ground, with two or three ladders to mount it. Fromthis, one of them, who seemed to be a person of quality, made me a longspeech, of which I could not understand a word, though I could tell fromhis manner that he sometimes threatened me, and sometimes spoke withpity and kindness. I answered in few words, but in the most submissivemanner. and, being almost famished with hunger, I could not help showingmy impatience by putting my finger frequently to my mouth, to signifythat I wanted food. He understood me very well, and, descending from thestage, commanded that several ladders should be set against my sides, onwhich more than a hundred of the inhabitants mounted, and walked towardmy mouth with baskets full of food, which had been sent by the King'sorders when he first received tidings of me. There were legs andshoulders like mutton but smaller than the wings of a lark. I atethem two or three at a mouthful, and took three loaves at a time. Theysupplied me as fast as they could, with a thousand marks of wonder atmy appetite. I then made a sign that I wanted something to drink. Theyguessed that a small quantity would not suffice me, and, being a mostingenious people, they slung up one of their largest hogsheads, thenrolled it toward my hand, and beat out the top. I drank it off at adraught, which I might well do, for it did not hold half a pint. Theybrought me a second hogshead, which I drank, and made signs for more.but they had none to give me. However, I could not wonder enough at thedaring of these tiny mortals, who ventured to mount and walk upon mybody, while one of my hands was free, without trembling at the verysight of so huge a creature as I must have seemed to them. After sometime there appeared before me a person of high rank from his ImperialMajesty. His Excellency, having mounted my right leg, advanced to myface, with about a dozen of his retinue, and spoke about ten minutes,often pointing forward, which, as I afterward found, was toward thecapital city, about half a mile distant, whither it was commanded by hisMajesty that I should be conveyed. I made a sign with my hand that wasloose, putting it to the other (but over his Excellency's head, forfear of hurting him or his train), to show that I desired my liberty.He seemed to understand me well enough, for he shook his head, thoughhe made other signs to let me know that I should have meat and drinkenough, and very good treatment. Then I once more thought of attemptingto escape. but when I felt the smart of their arrows on my face andhands, which were all in blisters and observed likewise that the numberof my enemies increased, I gave tokens to let them know that they mightdo with me what they pleased. Then they daubed my face and hands with asweet smelling ointment, which in a few minutes removed all the smartsof the arrows. The relief from pain and hunger made me drowsy, andpresently I fell asleep. I slept about eight hours, as I was toldafterward. and it was no wonder, for the physicians, by the Emperor'sorders, had mingled a sleeping draught in the hogsheads of wine.It seems that, when I was discovered sleeping on the ground after mylanding, the Emperor had early notice of it, and determined that Ishould be tied in the manner I have related (which was done in thenight, while I slept), that plenty of meat and drink should be sent me,and a machine prepared to carry me to the capital city. Five hundredcarpenters and engineers were immediately set to work to prepare theengine. It was a frame of wood, raised three inches from the ground,about seven feet long and four wide, moving upon twenty two wheels. Butthe difficulty was to place me on it. Eighty poles were erected for thispurpose, and very strong cords fastened to bandages which the workmenhad tied round my neck, hands, body, and legs. Nine hundred of thestrongest men were employed to draw up these cords by pulleys fastenedon the poles, and in less than three hours I was raised and slunginto the engine, and there tied fast. Fifteen hundred of the Emperor'slargest horses, each about four inches and a half high, were thenemployed to draw me toward the capital. But while all this was done Istill lay in a deep sleep, and I did not wake till four hours after webegan our journey.The Emperor and all his Court came out to meet us when we reached thecapital. but his great officials would not suffer his Majesty to riskhis person by mounting on my body. Where the carriage stopped therestood an ancient temple, supposed to be the largest in the wholekingdom, and here it was determined that I should lodge. Near the greatgate, through which I could easily creep, they fixed ninety one chains,like those which hang to a lady's watch, which were locked to myleft leg with thirty six padlocks. and when the workmen found it wasimpossible for me to break loose, they cut all the strings that boundme. Then I rose up, feeling as melancholy as ever I did in my life. Butthe noise and astonishment of the people on seeing me rise and walk wereinexpressible. The chains that held my left leg were about two yardslong, and gave me not only freedom to walk backward and forward in asemicircle, but to creep in and lie at full length inside the temple.The Emperor, advancing toward me from among his courtiers, all mostmagnificently clad, surveyed me with great admiration, but kept beyondthe length of my chain. He was taller by about the breadth of my nailthan any of his Court, which alone was enough to strike awe into thebeholders, and graceful and majestic. The better to behold him, I laydown on my side, so that my face was level with his, and he stood threeyards off. However, I have had him since many times in my hand, andtherefore cannot be deceived. His dress was very simple. but he wore alight helmet of gold, adorned with jewels and a plume. He held his sworddrawn in his hand, to defend himself if I should break loose. it wasalmost three inches long, and the hilt was of gold, enriched withdiamonds. His voice was shrill, but very clear. His Imperial Majestyspoke often to me, and I answered. but neither of us could understand aword.