A peasant in his field once heard a voice calling, "Help me! Help me!"He looked around but saw no one. Finally he discovered that the voice wascoming from below, from beneath a large stone. Rolling it onto its side hesaw a hole where there was a large snake. It slithered out and was aboutto tear the peasant to pieces."What!" said the peasant. "My reward for having freed you from yourprison is be torn to pieces?""Didn't you know," replied the snake, "that ingratitude is the world'sreward?""I do not believe that," said the peasant. "Come, let us go together toa judge who will decide if you have the right to tear me to pieces."So the went to seek a judge. After going a little way they came to atree onto which was tied an old horse."What are you doing there?" the peasant asked the horse. "Who tied youhere?""Oh," it said, "my master has gone to fetch a knacker who is to killme, for I am too old and week to pull the plow and other loads. When I wasyoung and strong, my master had only praise for me, but now he has no usefor me, and thus I will have to die.""You see, peasant," said the snake, "there you have proof thatingratitude is the world's reward. Now I am going to tear you topieces.""No," said the peasant. "Let us go to another judge."So they went further. A dog came ran up to them and sought thepeasant's protection against his master, who was about to shoot him. Hehad now grown unable to watch over the house, and he told the peasant thathis master had held him dearly when he was young and could watch over thehouse and the yard, but now that he was old and weak, he had acquiredanother dog and wanted to shoot him."There you have the second proof that ingratitude is the world'sreward," said the snake. "You must admit that I have the right to tear youapart."But the peasant did not want to admit this, and while they were arguingabout it, a fox came their way and asked why they were quarreling."Wait," thought the peasant. "The fox is very sly. He could be ourjudge."He explained the case to him, who then took the peasant aside and saidto him, "If you will promise me two roosters then I'll free you from thesnake.""They will be yours," said the peasant."Now," said the fox, "if I am to be your judge then I must see the holewhere the snake was caught. I cannot make a judgment until I have seenit."So they turned around and went back to the hole. Upon seeing it, thefox said, "What? Such a large snake was caught in this small hole? I donot believe it. It is entirely impossible! First you must convince me thatthere is room for you there. Snake, crawl inside and show me that youreally were caught there."The snake crawled inside, and he had scarcely done so when then foxquickly rolled the stone back in place, capturing him again, however muchhe cried out "Help me!"The peasant was very happy and told the fox to come that evening tofetch the roosters. He would leave the back gate to his yard open so hecould get in.The fox came that evening when everyone was eating supper. He found theback gate open and crept inside. But when he neared the chicken coop, thechickens saw him and cried out. The peasant's wife heard the noise, wentto see what was wrong, and discovered the fox."Wait," she said, "I'll light the way home for you." She ran into thekitchen, picked up a burning piece of wood, ran back to the chicken coop,and hit the fox so long with it until his pelt was all burned up. Cryingout, he ran away. When he was halfway out he shouted "Ingratitude is stillthe world's reward."