A man was walking through the forest one day when he saw a funnyblack thing like a whip wriggling about under a big stone. He was curiousto know what it all meant. So he lifted up the stone and found there ahuge black snake."That's well," said the snake. "I have been trying to get out for twodays, and, Oh, how hungry I am. I must have something to eat, and there isnobody around, so I must eat you.""But that wouldn't be fair," said the man with a trembling voice. "Butfor me you would never have come out from under the stone.""I do not care for that," said the snake. "Self preservation is thefirst law of life. you ask anybody if that isn't so.""Anyone will tell you," said the man, "that gratitude is a person'sfirst duty, and surely you owe me thanks for saving your life.""But you haven't saved my life, if I am to die of hunger," said thesnake."Oh yes, I have," said the man. "all you have to do is to wait till youfind something to eat.""Meanwhile I shall die, and what's the use of being saved!"So they disputed and they disputed whether the case was to be decidedby the claims of gratitude or the rights of self preservation, till theydid not know what to do."I tell you what I'll do," said the snake, "I'll let the firstpasser by decide which is right.""But I can't let my life depend upon the word of the first comer.""Well, we'll ask the first two that pass by.""Perhaps they won't agree," said the man. "what are we to do then? Weshall be as badly off as we are now.""Ah, well," said the snake, "let it be the first three. In all lawcourts it takes three judges to make a session. We'll follow the majorityof votes."So they waited till at last there came along an old, old horse. Andthey put the case to him, whether gratitude should ward off death."I don't see why it should," said the horse. "Here have I been slavingfor my master for the last fifteen years, till I am thoroughly worn out,and only this morning I heard him say, 'Roger'   that's my name   'is nouse to me any longer. I shall have to send him to the knacker's and get afew pence for his hide and his hoofs.' There's gratitude for you."So the horse's vote was in favor of the snake. And they waited till atlast an old hound passed by limping on three legs, half blind withscarcely any teeth. So they put the case to him."Look at me," said he. "I have slaved for my master for ten years, andthis very day he has kicked me out of his house because I am no use to himany longer, and he grudged me a few bones to eat. So far as I can seenobody acts from gratitude.""Well," said the snake, "there's two votes for me. What's the use ofwaiting for the third? he's sure to decide in my favor, and if he doesn'tit's two to one. Come here and I'll eat you!""No, no," said the man, "a bargain's a bargain. perhaps the third judgewill be able to convince the other two and my life will be saved."So they waited and they waited, till at last a fox came trotting along.and they stopped him and explained to him both sides of the case. He satup and scratched his left ear with his hind paw, and after a while hebeckoned the man to come near him. And when he did so the fox whispered,"What will you give me if I get you out of this?"The man whispered back, "A pair of fat chickens.""Well," said the fox, "if I am to decide this case I must clearlyunderstand the situation. Let me see! If I comprehend aright, the man waslying under the stone and the snake     ""No, no," cried out the horse and the hound and the snake. "It was theother way.""Ah, ha, I see! The stone was rolling down and the man sat on it, andthen     ""Oh, how stupid you are," they all cried. "it wasn't that way atall.""Dear me, you are quite right. I am very stupid, but, really, youhaven't explained the case quite clearly to me.""I'll show you," said the snake, impatient from his long hunger. and hetwisted himself again under the stone and wriggled his tail till at lastthe stone settled down upon him and he couldn't move out. "That's the wayit was.""And that's the way it will be," said the fox, and, taking the man'sarm, he walked off, followed by the horse and the hound. "And now for mychickens.""I'll go and get them for you," said the man, and went up to his house,which was near, and told his wife all about it."But," she said, "why waste a pair of chickens on a foxy old fox! Iknow what I'll do."So she went into the back yard and unloosed the dog and put it into ameal bag and gave it to the man, who took it down and gave it to the fox,who trotted off with it to his den.But when he opened the bag out sprung the dog and gobbled him allup.There's gratitude for you.