One day Nasreddin Hodja went to market, taking his son with him. There hebought a donkey, and on the way home he let his son ride while he himselfwalked alongside on foot.After they had gone some distance they came upon some people who begantalking about the pair. "The world is getting crazier and crazier," theysaid. "That lout of a son is sitting there at ease on the donkey, makinghis old father walk alongside dripping with sweat."Nasreddin Hodja heard this comment and had his son climb down, and hehimself took a seat on the donkey's back. "Now the people will besatisfied," he murmured.Soon they came upon another group who likewise were expressing theirthoughts about Nasreddin and his donkey, and indeed, loudly enough thatthe Hodja could hear them. "Have you ever seen anything like that? Thatmust be an unnatural father who makes his poor boy run on foot whilehe himself rides proudly along on the donkey!"The Hodja momentarily halted the donkey. "Climb up here with me!" he saidto his son.A short distance later they came upon another party, who likewiseexpressed their opinion clearly. "Such animal abuse! Isn't that shameless,for a cleric to torment such a poor donkey! Couldn't the two of you useyour own legs and give the donkey a little rest?"The Hodja stopped once again. "Let's climb off!" he said to his son.They both dismounted and walked along on foot beside the donkey. But theyhad not gone far when they came upon another group of people who also hadsomething to say about them. They heaped ridicule upon them:"Such a cheapskate! It's just like him to buy a donkey and is then toostingy to use the animal.""He must be afraid that he will rub the fur off its body.""Which of the three is the greatest donkey?""They just might as well carry the donkey home."No sooner said than done! Nasreddin Hodja followed this advice.As soon as the people had gone on their way he said to his son, "If youever should come into the possession of a donkey, never trim its tail inthe presence of other people. Some will say that you have cut off toomuch, and others that you have cut off too little. If you want to pleaseeveryone, in the end your donkey will have no tail at all."