Hans, intended to go home, and malicious Fate managed matters so thathis feet, instead of finding their way to his own galoshes, slippedinto those of Fortune. Thus caparisoned the good man walked out of thewell lighted rooms into East Street. By the magic power of the shoes hewas carried back to the times of King Hans. on which account his footvery naturally sank in the mud and puddles of the street, there havingbeen in those days no pavement in Copenhagen."Well! This is too bad! How dirty it is here!" sighed the Councillor."As to a pavement, I can find no traces of one, and all the lamps, itseems, have gone to sleep."The moon was not yet very high. it was besides rather foggy, so thatin the darkness all objects seemed mingled in chaotic confusion. At thenext corner hung a votive lamp before a Madonna, but the light it gavewas little better than none at all. indeed, he did not observe it beforehe was exactly under it, and his eyes fell upon the bright colors of thepictures which represented the well known group of the Virgin and theinfant Jesus."That is probably a wax work show," thought he. "and the people delaytaking down their sign in hopes of a late visitor or two."A few persons in the costume of the time of King Hans passed quickly byhim."How strange they look! The good folks come probably from a masquerade!"Suddenly was heard the sound of drums and fifes. the bright blaze of afire shot up from time to time, and its ruddy gleams seemed to contendwith the bluish light of the torches. The Councillor stood still, andwatched a most strange procession pass by. First came a dozen drummers,who understood pretty well how to handle their instruments. then camehalberdiers, and some armed with cross bows. The principal person in theprocession was a priest. Astonished at what he saw, the Councillor askedwhat was the meaning of all this mummery, and who that man was."That's the Bishop of Zealand," was the answer."Good Heavens! What has taken possession of the Bishop?" sighed theCouncillor, shaking his head. It certainly could not be the Bishop. eventhough he was considered the most absent man in the whole kingdom, andpeople told the drollest anecdotes about him. Reflecting on the matter,and without looking right or left, the Councillor went through EastStreet and across the Habro Platz. The bridge leading to Palace Squarewas not to be found. scarcely trusting his senses, the nocturnalwanderer discovered a shallow piece of water, and here fell in with twomen who very comfortably were rocking to and fro in a boat."Does your honor want to cross the ferry to the Holme?" asked they."Across to the Holme!" said the Councillor, who knew nothing of the agein which he at that moment was. "No, I am going to Christianshafen, toLittle Market Street."Both men stared at him in astonishment."Only just tell me where the bridge is," said he. "It is reallyunpardonable that there are no lamps here. and it is as dirty as if onehad to wade through a morass."The longer he spoke with the boatmen, the more unintelligible did theirlanguage become to him."I don't understand your Bornholmish dialect," said he at last, angrily,and turning his back upon them. He was unable to find the bridge: therewas no railway either. "It is really disgraceful what a state this placeis in," muttered he to himself. Never had his age, with which, however,he was always grumbling, seemed so miserable as on this evening. "I'lltake a hackney coach!" thought he. But where were the hackney coaches?Not one was to be seen."I must go back to the New Market. there, it is to be hoped, Ishall find some coaches. for if I don't, I shall never get safe toChristianshafen."So off he went in the direction of East Street, and had nearly got tothe end of it when the moon shone forth."God bless me! What wooden scaffolding is that which they have set upthere?" cried he involuntarily, as he looked at East Gate, which, inthose days, was at the end of East Street.He found, however, a little side door open, and through this he went,and stepped into our New Market of the present time. It was a hugedesolate plain. some wild bushes stood up here and there, while acrossthe field flowed a broad canal or river. Some wretched hovels for theDutch sailors, resembling great boxes, and after which the place wasnamed, lay about in confused disorder on the opposite bank."I either behold a fata morgana, or I am regularly tipsy," whimpered outthe Councillor. "But what's this?"He turned round anew, firmly convinced that he was seriously ill. Hegazed at the street formerly so well known to him, and now so strange inappearance, and looked at the houses more attentively: most of them wereof wood, slightly put together. and many had a thatched roof."No I am far from well," sighed he. "and yet I drank only one glass ofpunch. but I cannot suppose it it was, too, really very wrong to giveus punch and hot salmon for supper. I shall speak about it at the firstopportunity. I have half a mind to go back again, and say what I suffer.But no, that would be too silly. and Heaven only knows if they are upstill."He looked for the house, but it had vanished."It is really dreadful," groaned he with increasing anxiety. "I cannotrecognise East Street again. there is not a single decent shop from oneend to the other! Nothing but wretched huts can I see anywhere. justas if I were at Ringstead. Oh! I am ill! I can scarcely bear myself anylonger. Where the deuce can the house be? It must be here on this veryspot. yet there is not the slightest idea of resemblance, to such adegree has everything changed this night! At all events here are somepeople up and stirring. Oh! oh! I am certainly very ill."He now hit upon a half open door, through a chink of which a faint lightshone. It was a sort of hostelry of those times. a kind of public house.The room had some resemblance to the clay floored halls in Holstein. apretty numerous company, consisting of seamen, Copenhagen burghers, anda few scholars, sat here in deep converse over their pewter cans, andgave little heed to the person who entered."By your leave!" said the Councillor to the Hostess, who came bustlingtowards him. "I've felt so queer all of a sudden. would you have thegoodness to send for a hackney coach to take me to Christianshafen?"The woman examined him with eyes of astonishment, and shook her head.she then addressed him in German. The Councillor thought she did notunderstand Danish, and therefore repeated his wish in German. This, inconnection with his costume, strengthened the good woman in the beliefthat he was a foreigner. That he was ill, she comprehended directly. soshe brought him a pitcher of water, which tasted certainly pretty strongof the sea, although it had been fetched from the well.The Councillor supported his head on his hand, drew a long breath, andthought over all the wondrous things he saw around him."Is this the Daily News of this evening?" he asked mechanically, as hesaw the Hostess push aside a large sheet of paper.The meaning of this councillorship query remained, of course, a riddleto her, yet she handed him the paper without replying. It was a coarsewood cut, representing a splendid meteor "as seen in the town ofCologne," which was to be read below in bright letters."That is very old!" said the Councillor, whom this piece of antiquitybegan to make considerably more cheerful. "Pray how did you come intopossession of this rare print? It is extremely interesting, although thewhole is a mere fable. Such meteorous appearances are to be explained inthis way that they are the reflections of the Aurora Borealis, and itis highly probable they are caused principally by electricity."Those persons who were sitting nearest him and heard his speech,stared at him in wonderment. and one of them rose, took off his hatrespectfully, and said with a serious countenance, "You are no doubt avery learned man, Monsieur.""Oh no," answered the Councillor, "I can only join in conversation onthis topic and on that, as indeed one must do according to the demandsof the world at present.""Modestia is a fine virtue," continued the gentleman. "however, as toyour speech, I must say mihi secus videtur: yet I am willing to suspendmy judicium.""May I ask with whom I have the pleasure of speaking?" asked theCouncillor."I am a Bachelor in Theologia," answered the gentleman with a stiffreverence.This reply fully satisfied the Councillor. the title suited the dress."He is certainly," thought he, "some village schoolmaster some queerold fellow, such as one still often meets with in Jutland.""This is no locus docendi, it is true," began the clerical gentleman."yet I beg you earnestly to let us profit by your learning. Your readingin the ancients is, sine dubio, of vast extent?""Oh yes, I've read something, to be sure," replied the Councillor. "Ilike reading all useful works. but I do not on that account despise themodern ones. 'tis only the unfortunate 'Tales of Every day Life' that Icannot bear we have enough and more than enough such in reality.""'Tales of Every day Life?'" said our Bachelor inquiringly."I mean those new fangled novels, twisting and writhing themselves inthe dust of commonplace, which also expect to find a reading public.""Oh," exclaimed the clerical gentleman smiling, "there is much wit inthem. besides they are read at court. The King likes the history of SirIffven and Sir Gaudian particularly, which treats of King Arthur, andhis Knights of the Round Table. he has more than once joked about itwith his high vassals.""I have not read that novel," said the Councillor. "it must be quite anew one, that Heiberg has published lately.""No," answered the theologian of the time of King Hans: "that book isnot written by a Heiberg, but was imprinted by Godfrey von Gehmen.""Oh, is that the author's name?" said the Councillor. "It is a veryold name, and, as well as I recollect, he was the first printer thatappeared in Denmark.""Yes, he is our first printer," replied the clerical gentleman hastily.So far all went on well. Some one of the worthy burghers now spoke ofthe dreadful pestilence that had raged in the country a few years back,meaning that of 1484. The Councillor imagined it was the cholera thatwas meant, which people made so much fuss about. and the discoursepassed off satisfactorily enough. The war of the buccaneers of 1490 wasso recent that it could not fail being alluded to. the Englishpirates had, they said, most shamefully taken their ships while in theroadstead. and the Councillor, before whose eyes the Herostraticevent of 1801 still floated vividly, agreed entirely with the others inabusing the rascally English. With other topics he was not so fortunate.every moment brought about some new confusion, and threatened to becomea perfect Babel. for the worthy Bachelor was really too ignorant, andthe simplest observations of the Councillor sounded to him too daringand phantastical. They looked at one another from the crown of the headto the soles of the feet. and when matters grew to too high apitch, then the Bachelor talked Latin, in the hope of being betterunderstood but it was of no use after all.Herostratus, or Eratostratus an Ephesian, who wantonlyset fire to the famous temple of Diana, in order tocommemorate his name by so uncommon an action."What's the matter?" asked the Hostess, plucking the Councillor by thesleeve. and now his recollection returned, for in the course of theconversation he had entirely forgotten all that had preceded it."Merciful God, where am I!" exclaimed he in agony. and while he sothought, all his ideas and feelings of overpowering dizziness, againstwhich he struggled with the utmost power of desperation, encompassedhim with renewed force. "Let us drink claret and mead, and Bremen beer,"shouted one of the guests "and you shall drink with us!"Two maidens approached. One wore a cap of two staring colors, denotingthe class of persons to which she belonged. They poured out the liquor,and made the most friendly gesticulations. while a cold perspirationtrickled down the back of the poor Councillor."What's to be the end of this! What's to become of me!" groaned he. buthe was forced, in spite of his opposition, to drink with the rest. Theytook hold of the worthy man. who, hearing on every side that he wasintoxicated, did not in the least doubt the truth of this certainlynot very polite assertion. but on the contrary, implored the ladiesand gentlemen present to procure him a hackney coach: they, however,imagined he was talking Russian.Never before, he thought, had he been in such a coarse and ignorantcompany. one might almost fancy the people had turned heathens again."It is the most dreadful moment of my life: the whole world is leaguedagainst me!" But suddenly it occurred to him that he might stoop downunder the table, and then creep unobserved out of the door. He did so.but just as he was going, the others remarked what he was about. theylaid hold of him by the legs. and now, happily for him, off fell hisfatal shoes and with them the charm was at an end.The Councillor saw quite distinctly before him a lantern burning, andbehind this a large handsome house. All seemed to him in proper order asusual. it was East Street, splendid and elegant as we now see it. He laywith his feet towards a doorway, and exactly opposite sat the watchmanasleep."Gracious Heaven!" said he. "Have I lain here in the street and dreamed?Yes. 'tis East Street! How splendid and light it is! But really it isterrible what an effect that one glass of punch must have had on me!"Two minutes later, he was sitting in a hackney coach and driving toFrederickshafen. He thought of the distress and agony he had endured,and praised from the very bottom of his heart the happy reality our owntime which, with all its deficiencies, is yet much better than that inwhich, so much against his inclination, he had lately been."Why, there is a pair of galoshes, as sure as I'm alive!" said thewatchman, awaking from a gentle slumber. "They belong no doubt to thelieutenant who lives over the way. They lie close to the door."The worthy man was inclined to ring and deliver them at the house, forthere was still a light in the window. but he did not like disturbingthe other people in their beds, and so very considerately he left thematter alone."Such a pair of shoes must be very warm and comfortable," said he. "theleather is so soft and supple." They fitted his feet as though theyhad been made for him. "'Tis a curious world we live in," continued he,soliloquizing. "There is the lieutenant, now, who might go quietly tobed if he chose, where no doubt he could stretch himself at his ease.but does he do it? No. he saunters up and down his room, because,probably, he has enjoyed too many of the good things of this world athis dinner. That's a happy fellow! He has neither an infirm mother, nora whole troop of everlastingly hungry children to torment him. Everyevening he goes to a party, where his nice supper costs him nothing:would to Heaven I could but change with him! How happy should I be!"While expressing his wish, the charm of the shoes, which he had put on,began to work. the watchman entered into the being and nature of thelieutenant. He stood in the handsomely furnished apartment, and heldbetween his fingers a small sheet of rose colored paper, on which someverses were written written indeed by the officer himself. for who hasnot, at least once in his life, had a lyrical moment? And if one thenmarks down one's thoughts, poetry is produced. But here was written:OH, WERE I RICH!"Oh, were I rich! Such was my wish, yea suchWhen hardly three feet high, I longed for much.Oh, were I rich! an officer were I,With sword, and uniform, and plume so high.And the time came, and officer was I!But yet I grew not rich. Alas, poor me!Have pity, Thou, who all man's wants dost see."I sat one evening sunk in dreams of bliss,A maid of seven years old gave me a kiss,I at that time was rich in poesyAnd tales of old, though poor as poor could be.But all she asked for was this poesy.Then was I rich, but not in gold, poor me!As Thou dost know, who all men's hearts canst see."Oh, were I rich! Oft asked I for this boon.The child grew up to womanhood full soon.She is so pretty, clever, and so kindOh, did she know what's hidden in my mind A tale of old. Would she to me were kind!But I'm condemned to silence! oh, poor me!As Thou dost know, who all men's hearts canst see."Oh, were I rich in calm and peace of mind,My grief you then would not here written find!O thou, to whom I do my heart devote,Oh read this page of glad days now remote,A dark, dark tale, which I tonight devote!Dark is the future now. Alas, poor me!Have pity Thou, who all men's pains dost see."Such verses as these people write when they are in love! But no manin his senses ever thinks of printing them. Here one of the sorrows oflife, in which there is real poetry, gave itself vent. not thatbarren grief which the poet may only hint at, but never depict in itsdetail misery and want: that animal necessity, in short, to snatchat least at a fallen leaf of the bread fruit tree, if not at the fruititself. The higher the position in which one finds oneself transplanted,the greater is the suffering. Everyday necessity is the stagnant pool oflife no lovely picture reflects itself therein. Lieutenant, love, andlack of money that is a symbolic triangle, or much the same as thehalf of the shattered die of Fortune. This the lieutenant felt mostpoignantly, and this was the reason he leant his head against thewindow, and sighed so deeply."The poor watchman out there in the street is far happier than I. Heknows not what I term privation. He has a home, a wife, and children,who weep with him over his sorrows, who rejoice with him when he isglad. Oh, far happier were I, could I exchange with him my being withhis desires and with his hopes perform the weary pilgrimage of life! Oh,he is a hundred times happier than I!"In the same moment the watchman was again watchman. It was the shoesthat caused the metamorphosis by means of which, unknown to himself, hetook upon him the thoughts and feelings of the officer. but, as we havejust seen, he felt himself in his new situation much less contented,and now preferred the very thing which but some minutes before he hadrejected. So then the watchman was again watchman."That was an unpleasant dream," said he. "but 'twas droll enoughaltogether. I fancied that I was the lieutenant over there: and yetthe thing was not very much to my taste after all. I missed my good oldmother and the dear little ones. who almost tear me to pieces for sheerlove."He seated himself once more and nodded: the dream continued to haunthim, for he still had the shoes on his feet. A falling star shone in thedark firmament."There falls another star," said he: "but what does it matter. thereare always enough left. I should not much mind examining the littleglimmering things somewhat nearer, especially the moon. for that wouldnot slip so easily through a man's fingers. When we die so at leastsays the student, for whom my wife does the washing we shall fly aboutas light as a feather from one such a star to the other. That's, ofcourse, not true: but 'twould be pretty enough if it were so. If I couldbut once take a leap up there, my body might stay here on the steps forwhat I care."Behold there are certain things in the world to which one ought neverto give utterance except with the greatest caution. but doubly carefulmust one be when we have the Shoes of Fortune on our feet. Now justlisten to what happened to the watchman.As to ourselves, we all know the speed produced by the employment ofsteam. we have experienced it either on railroads, or in boats whencrossing the sea. but such a flight is like the travelling of a sloth incomparison with the velocity with which light moves. It flies nineteenmillion times faster than the best race horse. and yet electricity isquicker still. Death is an electric shock which our heart receives. thefreed soul soars upwards on the wings of electricity. The sun's lightwants eight minutes and some seconds to perform a journey of more thantwenty million of our Danish miles. borne by electricity, the soulwants even some minutes less to accomplish the same flight. To it thespace between the heavenly bodies is not greater than the distancebetween the homes of our friends in town is for us, even if they live ashort way from each other. such an electric shock in the heart, however,costs us the use of the body here below. unless, like the watchman ofEast Street, we happen to have on the Shoes of Fortune.A Danish mile is nearly 4 3/4 English.In a few seconds the watchman had done the fifty two thousand of ourmiles up to the moon, which, as everyone knows, was formed out ofmatter much lighter than our earth. and is, so we should say, as softas newly fallen snow. He found himself on one of the many circumjacentmountain ridges with which we are acquainted by means of Dr. Madler's"Map of the Moon." Within, down it sunk perpendicularly into a caldron,about a Danish mile in depth. while below lay a town, whose appearancewe can, in some measure, realize to ourselves by beating the white ofan egg in a glass of water. The matter of which it was built was just assoft, and formed similar towers, and domes, and pillars, transparent androcking in the thin air. while above his head our earth was rolling likea large fiery ball.He perceived immediately a quantity of beings who were certainly whatwe call "men". yet they looked different to us. A far more correctimagination than that of the pseudo Herschel had created them. andif they had been placed in rank and file, and copied by some skilfulpainter's hand, one would, without doubt, have exclaimed involuntarily,"What a beautiful arabesque!"This relates to a book published some years ago in Germany, and saidto be by Herschel, which contained a description of the moon and itsinhabitants, written with such a semblance of truth that many weredeceived by the imposture.Probably a translation of the celebrated Moon hoax, written by RichardA. Locke, and originally published in New York.They had a language too. but surely nobody can expect that the soul ofthe watchman should understand it. Be that as it may, it did comprehendit. for in our souls there germinate far greater powers than we poormortals, despite all our cleverness, have any notion of. Does shenot show us she the queen in the land of enchantment her astoundingdramatic talent in all our dreams? There every acquaintance appears andspeaks upon the stage, so entirely in character, and with the same toneof voice, that none of us, when awake, were able to imitate it. Howwell can she recall persons to our mind, of whom we have not thought foryears. when suddenly they step forth "every inch a man," resembling thereal personages, even to the finest features, and become the heroesor heroines of our world of dreams. In reality, such remembrances arerather unpleasant: every sin, every evil thought, may, like a clock withalarm or chimes, be repeated at pleasure. then the question is if we cantrust ourselves to give an account of every unbecoming word in our heartand on our lips.The watchman's spirit understood the language of the inhabitants of themoon pretty well. The Selenites disputed variously about our earth,and expressed their doubts if it could be inhabited: the air, they said,must certainly be too dense to allow any rational dweller in the moonthe necessary free respiration. They considered the moon alone tobe inhabited: they imagined it was the real heart of the universe orplanetary system, on which the genuine Cosmopolites, or citizens of theworld, dwelt. What strange things men no, what strange things Selenitessometimes take into their heads!Dwellers in the moon.About politics they had a good deal to say. But little Denmark musttake care what it is about, and not run counter to the moon. thatgreat realm, that might in an ill humor bestir itself, and dash down ahail storm in our faces, or force the Baltic to overflow the sides ofits gigantic basin.We will, therefore, not listen to what was spoken, and on no conditionrun in the possibility of telling tales out of school. but we willrather proceed, like good quiet citizens, to East Street, and observewhat happened meanwhile to the body of the watchman.He sat lifeless on the steps: the morning star, that is to say, theheavy wooden staff, headed with iron spikes, and which had nothing elsein common with its sparkling brother in the sky, had glided from hishand. while his eyes were fixed with glassy stare on the moon, lookingfor the good old fellow of a spirit which still haunted it.The watchmen in Germany, had formerly, and in some places they stillcarry with them, on their rounds at night, a sort of mace or club, knownin ancient times by the above denomination."What's the hour, watchman?" asked a passer by. But when the watchmangave no reply, the merry roysterer, who was now returning home from anoisy drinking bout, took it into his head to try what a tweak of thenose would do, on which the supposed sleeper lost his balance, the bodylay motionless, stretched out on the pavement: the man was dead. Whenthe patrol came up, all his comrades, who comprehended nothing of thewhole affair, were seized with a dreadful fright, for dead he was,and he remained so. The proper authorities were informed of thecircumstance, people talked a good deal about it, and in the morning thebody was carried to the hospital.Now that would be a very pretty joke, if the spirit when it came backand looked for the body in East Street, were not to find one. No doubtit would, in its anxiety, run off to the police, and then to the"Hue and Cry" office, to announce that "the finder will be handsomelyrewarded," and at last away to the hospital. yet we may boldly assertthat the soul is shrewdest when it shakes off every fetter, and everysort of leading string the body only makes it stupid.The seemingly dead body of the watchman wandered, as we have said, tothe hospital, where it was brought into the general viewing room:and the first thing that was done here was naturally to pull off thegaloshes when the spirit, that was merely gone out on adventures, musthave returned with the quickness of lightning to its earthly tenement.It took its direction towards the body in a straight line. and a fewseconds after, life began to show itself in the man. He asserted thatthe preceding night had been the worst that ever the malice of fate hadallotted him. he would not for two silver marks again go through what hehad endured while moon stricken. but now, however, it was over.The same day he was discharged from the hospital as perfectly cured. butthe Shoes meanwhile remained behind.IV. A Moment of Head Importance An Evening's "Dramatic Readings" AMost Strange JourneyEvery inhabitant of Copenhagen knows, from personal inspection, howthe entrance to Frederick's Hospital looks. but as it is possible thatothers, who are not Copenhagen people, may also read this little work,we will beforehand give a short description of it.The extensive building is separated from the street by a pretty highrailing, the thick iron bars of which are so far apart, that inall seriousness, it is said, some very thin fellow had of a nightoccasionally squeezed himself through to go and pay his little visitsin the town. The part of the body most difficult to manage on suchoccasions was, no doubt, the head. here, as is so often the case inthe world, long headed people get through best. So much, then, for theintroduction.One of the young men, whose head, in a physical sense only, might besaid to be of the thickest, had the watch that evening. The rain poureddown in torrents. yet despite these two obstacles, the young man wasobliged to go out, if it were but for a quarter of an hour. and asto telling the door keeper about it, that, he thought, was quiteunnecessary, if, with a whole skin, he were able to slip through therailings. There, on the floor lay the galoshes, which the watchmanhad forgotten. he never dreamed for a moment that they were those ofFortune. and they promised to do him good service in the wet. so he putthem on. The question now was, if he could squeeze himself through thegrating, for he had never tried before. Well, there he stood."Would to Heaven I had got my head through!" said he, involuntarily. andinstantly through it slipped, easily and without pain, notwithstandingit was pretty large and thick. But now the rest of the body was to begot through!"Ah! I am much too stout," groaned he aloud, while fixed as in a vice."I had thought the head was the most difficult part of the matter oh!oh! I really cannot squeeze myself through!"He now wanted to pull his over hasty head back again, but he could not.For his neck there was room enough, but for nothing more. His firstfeeling was of anger. his next that his temper fell to zero. TheShoes of Fortune had placed him in the most dreadful situation. and,unfortunately, it never occurred to him to wish himself free. Thepitch black clouds poured down their contents in still heavier torrents.not a creature was to be seen in the streets. To reach up to the bellwas what he did not like. to cry aloud for help would have availed himlittle. besides, how ashamed would he have been to be found caught in atrap, like an outwitted fox! How was he to twist himself through! He sawclearly that it was his irrevocable destiny to remain a prisoner tilldawn, or, perhaps, even late in the morning. then the smith must befetched to file away the bars. but all that would not be done so quicklyas he could think about it. The whole Charity School, just opposite,would be in motion. all the new booths, with their not verycourtier like swarm of seamen, would join them out of curiosity, andwould greet him with a wild "hurrah!" while he was standing in hispillory: there would be a mob, a hissing, and rejoicing, and jeering,ten times worse than in the rows about the Jews some years ago "Oh, myblood is mounting to my brain. 'tis enough to drive one mad! I shall gowild! I know not what to do. Oh! were I but loose. my dizziness wouldthen cease. oh, were my head but loose!"You see he ought to have said that sooner. for the moment he expressedthe wish his head was free. and cured of all his paroxysms of love, hehastened off to his room, where the pains consequent on the fright theShoes had prepared for him, did not so soon take their leave.But you must not think that the affair is over now. it grows much worse.The night passed, the next day also. but nobody came to fetch the Shoes.In the evening "Dramatic Readings" were to be given at the littletheatre in King Street. The house was filled to suffocation. and amongother pieces to be recited was a new poem by H. C. Andersen, called, MyAunt's Spectacles. the contents of which were pretty nearly as follows:"A certain person had an aunt, who boasted of particular skill infortune telling with cards, and who was constantly being stormed bypersons that wanted to have a peep into futurity. But she was full ofmystery about her art, in which a certain pair of magic spectaclesdid her essential service. Her nephew, a merry boy, who was his aunt'sdarling, begged so long for these spectacles, that, at last, she lenthim the treasure, after having informed him, with many exhortations,that in order to execute the interesting trick, he need only repair tosome place where a great many persons were assembled. and then, from ahigher position, whence he could overlook the crowd, pass the company inreview before him through his spectacles. Immediately 'the inner man' ofeach individual would be displayed before him, like a game of cards, inwhich he unerringly might read what the future of every person presentedwas to be. Well pleased the little magician hastened away to prove thepowers of the spectacles in the theatre. no place seeming to him morefitted for such a trial. He begged permission of the worthy audience,and set his spectacles on his nose. A motley phantasmagoria presentsitself before him, which he describes in a few satirical touches, yetwithout expressing his opinion openly: he tells the people enough to setthem all thinking and guessing. but in order to hurt nobody, he wrapshis witty oracular judgments in a transparent veil, or rather in a luridthundercloud, shooting forth bright sparks of wit, that they may fall inthe powder magazine of the expectant audience."The humorous poem was admirably recited, and the speaker much applauded.Among the audience was the young man of the hospital, who seemed to haveforgotten his adventure of the preceding night. He had on the Shoes. foras yet no lawful owner had appeared to claim them. and besides it was sovery dirty out of doors, they were just the thing for him, he thought.The beginning of the poem he praised with great generosity: he evenfound the idea original and effective. But that the end of it, like theRhine, was very insignificant, proved, in his opinion, the author'swant of invention. he was without genius, etc. This was an excellentopportunity to have said something clever.Meanwhile he was haunted by the idea he should like to possess such apair of spectacles himself. then, perhaps, by using them circumspectly,one would be able to look into people's hearts, which, he thought, wouldbe far more interesting than merely to see what was to happen next year.for that we should all know in proper time, but the other never."I can now," said he to himself, "fancy the whole row of ladies andgentlemen sitting there in the front row. if one could but see intotheir hearts yes, that would be a revelation a sort of bazar. In thatlady yonder, so strangely dressed, I should find for certain a largemilliner's shop. in that one the shop is empty, but it wants cleaningplain enough. But there would also be some good stately shops amongthem. Alas!" sighed he, "I know one in which all is stately. but theresits already a spruce young shopman, which is the only thing that'samiss in the whole shop. All would be splendidly decked out, and weshould hear, 'Walk in, gentlemen, pray walk in. here you will find allyou please to want.' Ah! I wish to Heaven I could walk in and take atrip right through the hearts of those present!"And behold! to the Shoes of Fortune this was the cue. the whole manshrunk together and a most uncommon journey through the hearts of thefront row of spectators, now began. The first heart through which hecame, was that of a middle aged lady, but he instantly fancied himselfin the room of the "Institution for the cure of the crooked anddeformed," where casts of mis shapen limbs are displayed in nakedreality on the wall. Yet there was this difference, in the institutionthe casts were taken at the entry of the patient. but here they wereretained and guarded in the heart while the sound persons went away.They were, namely, casts of female friends, whose bodily or mentaldeformities were here most faithfully preserved.With the snake like writhings of an idea he glided into another femaleheart. but this seemed to him like a large holy fane. The white dove ofinnocence fluttered over the altar. How gladly would he have sunk uponhis knees. but he must away to the next heart. yet he still heard thepealing tones of the organ, and he himself seemed to have become a newerand a better man. he felt unworthy to tread the neighboring sanctuarywhich a poor garret, with a sick bed rid mother, revealed. But God'swarm sun streamed through the open window. lovely roses nodded fromthe wooden flower boxes on the roof, and two sky blue birds sangrejoicingly, while the sick mother implored God's richest blessings onher pious daughter.templeHe now crept on hands and feet through a butcher's shop. at least onevery side, and above and below, there was nought but flesh. It was theheart of a most respectable rich man, whose name is certain to be foundin the Directory.He was now in the heart of the wife of this worthy gentleman. It was anold, dilapidated, mouldering dovecot. The husband's portrait was used asa weather cock, which was connected in some way or other with the doors,and so they opened and shut of their own accord, whenever the stern oldhusband turned round.Hereupon he wandered into a boudoir formed entirely of mirrors, likethe one in Castle Rosenburg. but here the glasses magnified to anastonishing degree. On the floor, in the middle of the room, sat, like aDalai Lama, the insignificant "Self" of the person, quite confounded athis own greatness. He then imagined he had got into a needle case fullof pointed needles of every size."This is certainly the heart of an old maid," thought he. But he wasmistaken. It was the heart of a young military man. a man, as peoplesaid, of talent and feeling.In the greatest perplexity, he now came out of the last heart in therow. he was unable to put his thoughts in order, and fancied that histoo lively imagination had run away with him."Good Heavens!" sighed he. "I have surely a disposition to madness 'tisdreadfully hot here. my blood boils in my veins and my head is burninglike a coal." And he now remembered the important event of the eveningbefore, how his head had got jammed in between the iron railings of thehospital. "That's what it is, no doubt," said he. "I must do somethingin time: under such circumstances a Russian bath might do me good. Ionly wish I were already on the upper bank."In these Russian (vapor) baths the person extends himselfon a bank or form, and as he gets accustomed to the heat,moves to another higher up towards the ceiling, where, ofcourse, the vapor is warmest. In this manner he ascendsgradually to the highest.And so there he lay on the uppermost bank in the vapor bath. but withall his clothes on, in his boots and galoshes, while the hot drops fellscalding from the ceiling on his face."Holloa!" cried he, leaping down. The bathing attendant, on his side,uttered a loud cry of astonishment when he beheld in the bath, a mancompletely dressed.The other, however, retained sufficient presence of mind to whisper tohim, "'Tis a bet, and I have won it!" But the first thing he did as soonas he got home, was to have a large blister put on his chest and back todraw out his madness.The next morning he had a sore chest and a bleeding back. and, exceptingthe fright, that was all that he had gained by the Shoes of Fortune.The watchman, whom we have certainly not forgotten, thought meanwhileof the galoshes he had found and taken with him to the hospital. he nowwent to fetch them. and as neither the lieutenant, nor anybody else inthe street, claimed them as his property, they were delivered over tothe police office.As on the continent, in all law and police practices nothing is verbal,but any circumstance, however trifling, is reduced to writing, thelabor, as well as the number of papers that thus accumulate, isenormous. In a police office, consequently, we find copying clerks amongmany other scribes of various denominations, of which, it seems, ourhero was one."Why, I declare the Shoes look just like my own," said one of theclerks, eying the newly found treasure, whose hidden powers, even he,sharp as he was, was not able to discover. "One must have more thanthe eye of a shoemaker to know one pair from the other," said he,soliloquizing. and putting, at the same time, the galoshes in search ofan owner, beside his own in the corner."Here, sir!" said one of the men, who panting brought him a tremendouspile of papers.The copying clerk turned round and spoke awhile with the man about thereports and legal documents in question. but when he had finished, andhis eye fell again on the Shoes, he was unable to say whether those tothe left or those to the right belonged to him. "At all events it mustbe those which are wet," thought he. but this time, in spite of hiscleverness, he guessed quite wrong, for it was just those of Fortunewhich played as it were into his hands, or rather on his feet. And why,I should like to know, are the police never to be wrong? So he put themon quickly, stuck his papers in his pocket, and took besides a few underhis arm, intending to look them through at home to make the necessarynotes. It was noon. and the weather, that had threatened rain, beganto clear up, while gaily dressed holiday folks filled the streets. "Alittle trip to Fredericksburg would do me no great harm," thought he."for I, poor beast of burden that I am, have so much to annoy me, that Idon't know what a good appetite is. 'Tis a bitter crust, alas! at whichI am condemned to gnaw!"Nobody could be more steady or quiet than this young man. we thereforewish him joy of the excursion with all our heart. and it will certainlybe beneficial for a person who leads so sedentary a life. In the parkhe met a friend, one of our young poets, who told him that the followingday he should set out on his long intended tour."So you are going away again!" said the clerk. "You are a very freeand happy being. we others are chained by the leg and held fast to ourdesk.""Yes. but it is a chain, friend, which ensures you the blessed breadof existence," answered the poet. "You need feel no care for the comingmorrow: when you are old, you receive a pension.""True," said the clerk, shrugging his shoulders. "and yet you arethe better off. To sit at one's ease and poetise that is a pleasure.everybody has something agreeable to say to you, and you are always yourown master. No, friend, you should but try what it is to sit from oneyear's end to the other occupied with and judging the most trivialmatters."The poet shook his head, the copying clerk did the same. Each one keptto his own opinion, and so they separated."It's a strange race, those poets!" said the clerk, who was very fond ofsoliloquizing. "I should like some day, just for a trial, to take suchnature upon me, and be a poet myself. I am very sure I should makeno such miserable verses as the others. Today, methinks, is a mostdelicious day for a poet. Nature seems anew to celebrate her awakeninginto life. The air is so unusually clear, the clouds sail on sobuoyantly, and from the green herbage a fragrance is exhaled that fillsme with delight. For many a year have I not felt as at this moment."We see already, by the foregoing effusion, that he is become a poet. togive further proof of it, however, would in most cases be insipid, forit is a most foolish notion to fancy a poet different from other men.Among the latter there may be far more poetical natures than many anacknowledged poet, when examined more closely, could boast of. thedifference only is, that the poet possesses a better mental memory, onwhich account he is able to retain the feeling and the thought till theycan be embodied by means of words. a faculty which the others do notpossess. But the transition from a commonplace nature to one that isrichly endowed, demands always a more or less breakneck leap over acertain abyss which yawns threateningly below. and thus must the suddenchange with the clerk strike the reader."The sweet air!" continued he of the police office, in his dreamyimaginings. "how it reminds me of the violets in the garden of my auntMagdalena! Yes, then I was a little wild boy, who did not go to schoolvery regularly. O heavens! 'tis a long time since I have thought onthose times. The good old soul! She lived behind the Exchange. Shealways had a few twigs or green shoots in water let the winter ragewithout as it might. The violets exhaled their sweet breath, whilst Ipressed against the windowpanes covered with fantastic frost work thecopper coin I had heated on the stove, and so made peep holes.What splendid vistas were then opened to my view! What change whatmagnificence! Yonder in the canal lay the ships frozen up, and desertedby their whole crews, with a screaming crow for the sole occupant. Butwhen the spring, with a gentle stirring motion, announced her arrival,a new and busy life arose. with songs and hurrahs the ice was sawnasunder, the ships were fresh tarred and rigged, that they might sailaway to distant lands. But I have remained here must always remainhere, sitting at my desk in the office, and patiently see other peoplefetch their passports to go abroad. Such is my fate! Alas!" sighed he,and was again silent. "Great Heaven! What is come to me! Never have Ithought or felt like this before! It must be the summer air that affectsme with feelings almost as disquieting as they are refreshing."He felt in his pocket for the papers. "These police reports will soonstem the torrent of my ideas, and effectually hinder any rebelliousoverflowing of the time worn banks of official duties". he said tohimself consolingly, while his eye ran over the first page. "DAMETIGBRITH, tragedy in five acts." "What is that? And yet it is undeniablymy own handwriting. Have I written the tragedy? Wonderful, verywonderful! And this what have I here? 'INTRIGUE ON THE RAMPARTS. orTHE DAY OF REPENTANCE: vaudeville with new songs to the most favoriteairs.' The deuce! Where did I get all this rubbish? Some one must haveslipped it slyly into my pocket for a joke. There is too a letter to me.a crumpled letter and the seal broken."Yes. it was not a very polite epistle from the manager of a theatre, inwhich both pieces were flatly refused."Hem! hem!" said the clerk breathlessly, and quite exhausted he seatedhimself on a bank. His thoughts were so elastic, his heart so tender.and involuntarily he picked one of the nearest flowers. It is a simpledaisy, just bursting out of the bud. What the botanist tells us aftera number of imperfect lectures, the flower proclaimed in a minute. Itrelated the mythus of its birth, told of the power of the sun light thatspread out its delicate leaves, and forced them to impregnate the airwith their incense and then he thought of the manifold struggles oflife, which in like manner awaken the budding flowers of feeling in ourbosom. Light and air contend with chivalric emulation for the love ofthe fair flower that bestowed her chief favors on the latter. full oflonging she turned towards the light, and as soon as it vanished, rolledher tender leaves together and slept in the embraces of the air. "It isthe light which adorns me," said the flower."But 'tis the air which enables thee to breathe," said the poet's voice.Close by stood a boy who dashed his stick into a wet ditch. The drops ofwater splashed up to the green leafy roof, and the clerk thought of themillion of ephemera which in a single drop were thrown up to a height,that was as great doubtless for their size, as for us if we were tobe hurled above the clouds. While he thought of this and of the wholemetamorphosis he had undergone, he smiled and said, "I sleep and dream.but it is wonderful how one can dream so naturally, and know besides soexactly that it is but a dream. If only to morrow on awaking, I couldagain call all to mind so vividly! I seem in unusually good spirits. myperception of things is clear, I feel as light and cheerful as thoughI were in heaven. but I know for a certainty, that if to morrow a dimremembrance of it should swim before my mind, it will then seem nothingbut stupid nonsense, as I have often experienced already especiallybefore I enlisted under the banner of the police, for that dispels likea whirlwind all the visions of an unfettered imagination. All we hearor say in a dream that is fair and beautiful is like the gold of thesubterranean spirits. it is rich and splendid when it is given us, butviewed by daylight we find only withered leaves. Alas!" he sighed quitesorrowful, and gazed at the chirping birds that hopped contentedly frombranch to branch, "they are much better off than I! To fly must be aheavenly art. and happy do I prize that creature in which it is innate.Yes! Could I exchange my nature with any other creature, I fain would besuch a happy little lark!"He had hardly uttered these hasty words when the skirts and sleevesof his coat folded themselves together into wings. the clothes becamefeathers, and the galoshes claws. He observed it perfectly, and laughedin his heart. "Now then, there is no doubt that I am dreaming. but Inever before was aware of such mad freaks as these." And up he flew intothe green roof and sang. but in the song there was no poetry, for thespirit of the poet was gone. The Shoes, as is the case with anybody whodoes what he has to do properly, could only attend to one thing at atime. He wanted to be a poet, and he was one. he now wished to be amerry chirping bird: but when he was metamorphosed into one, the formerpeculiarities ceased immediately. "It is really pleasant enough," saidhe: "the whole day long I sit in the office amid the driestlaw papers, and at night I fly in my dream as a lark in the gardens ofFredericksburg. one might really write a very pretty comedy upon it." Henow fluttered down into the grass, turned his head gracefully on everyside, and with his bill pecked the pliant blades of grass, which, incomparison to his present size, seemed as majestic as the palm branchesof northern Africa.Unfortunately the pleasure lasted but a moment. Presently black nightovershadowed our enthusiast, who had so entirely missed his part ofcopying clerk at a police office. some vast object seemed to be thrownover him. It was a large oil skin cap, which a sailor boy of the quayhad thrown over the struggling bird. a coarse hand sought its waycarefully in under the broad rim, and seized the clerk over the backand wings. In the first moment of fear, he called, indeed, as loud ashe could "You impudent little blackguard! I am a copying clerk atthe police office. and you know you cannot insult any belonging to theconstabulary force without a chastisement. Besides, you good for nothingrascal, it is strictly forbidden to catch birds in the royal gardens ofFredericksburg. but your blue uniform betrays where you come from."This fine tirade sounded, however, to the ungodly sailor boy like a mere"Pippi pi." He gave the noisy bird a knock on his beak, and walked on.He was soon met by two schoolboys of the upper class that is to say asindividuals, for with regard to learning they were in the lowest classin the school. and they bought the stupid bird. So the copying clerkcame to Copenhagen as guest, or rather as prisoner in a family living inGother Street."'Tis well that I'm dreaming," said the clerk, "or I really should getangry. First I was a poet. now sold for a few pence as a lark. no doubtit was that accursed poetical nature which has metamorphosed meinto such a poor harmless little creature. It is really pitiable,particularly when one gets into the hands of a little blackguard,perfect in all sorts of cruelty to animals: all I should like to knowis, how the story will end."The two schoolboys, the proprietors now of the transformed clerk,carried him into an elegant room. A stout stately dame received themwith a smile. but she expressed much dissatisfaction that a commonfield bird, as she called the lark, should appear in such high society.For to day, however, she would allow it. and they must shut him in theempty cage that was standing in the window. "Perhaps he will amuse mygood Polly," added the lady, looking with a benignant smile at a largegreen parrot that swung himself backwards and forwards most comfortablyin his ring, inside a magnificent brass wired cage. "To day is Polly'sbirthday," said she with stupid simplicity: "and the little brownfield bird must wish him joy."Mr. Polly uttered not a syllable in reply, but swung to and fro withdignified condescension. while a pretty canary, as yellow as gold, thathad lately been brought from his sunny fragrant home, began to singaloud."Noisy creature! Will you be quiet!" screamed the lady of the house,covering the cage with an embroidered white pocket handkerchief."Chirp, chirp!" sighed he. "That was a dreadful snowstorm". and hesighed again, and was silent.The copying clerk, or, as the lady said, the brown field bird, wasput into a small cage, close to the Canary, and not far from "my goodPolly." The only human sounds that the Parrot could bawl outwere, "Come, let us be men!" Everything else that he said was asunintelligible to everybody as the chirping of the Canary, except to theclerk, who was now a bird too: he understood his companion perfectly."I flew about beneath the green palms and the blossoming almond trees,"sang the Canary. "I flew around, with my brothers and sisters, overthe beautiful flowers, and over the glassy lakes, where the brightwater plants nodded to me from below. There, too, I saw manysplendidly dressed paroquets, that told the drollest stories, and thewildest fairy tales without end.""Oh! those were uncouth birds," answered the Parrot. "They had noeducation, and talked of whatever came into their head."If my mistress and all her friends can laugh at what I say, so may youtoo, I should think. It is a great fault to have no taste for what iswitty or amusing come, let us be men.""Ah, you have no remembrance of love for the charming maidens thatdanced beneath the outspread tents beside the bright fragrant flowers?Do you no longer remember the sweet fruits, and the cooling juice inthe wild plants of our never to be forgotten home?" said the formerinhabitant of the Canary Isles, continuing his dithyrambic."Oh, yes," said the Parrot. "but I am far better off here. I am wellfed, and get friendly treatment. I know I am a clever fellow. and thatis all I care about. Come, let us be men. You are of a poetical nature,as it is called I, on the contrary, possess profound knowledge andinexhaustible wit. You have genius. but clear sighted, calm discretiondoes not take such lofty flights, and utter such high natural tones.For this they have covered you over they never do the like to me. forI cost more. Besides, they are afraid of my beak. and I have always awitty answer at hand. Come, let us be men!""O warm spicy land of my birth," sang the Canary bird. "I will sing ofthy dark green bowers, of the calm bays where the pendent boughskiss the surface of the water. I will sing of the rejoicing of all mybrothers and sisters where the cactus grows in wanton luxuriance.""Spare us your elegiac tones," said the Parrot giggling. "Rather speakof something at which one may laugh heartily. Laughing is an infalliblesign of the highest degree of mental development. Can a dog, or a horselaugh? No, but they can cry. The gift of laughing was given to manalone. Ha! ha! ha!" screamed Polly, and added his stereotype witticism."Come, let us be men!""Poor little Danish grey bird," said the Canary. "you have been caughttoo. It is, no doubt, cold enough in your woods, but there at leastis the breath of liberty. therefore fly away. In the hurry they haveforgotten to shut your cage, and the upper window is open. Fly, myfriend. fly away. Farewell!"Instinctively the Clerk obeyed. with a few strokes of his wings he wasout of the cage. but at the same moment the door, which was only ajar,and which led to the next room, began to creak, and supple and creepingcame the large tomcat into the room, and began to pursue him. Thefrightened Canary fluttered about in his cage. the Parrot flapped hiswings, and cried, "Come, let us be men!" The Clerk felt a mortal fright,and flew through the window, far away over the houses and streets. Atlast he was forced to rest a little.The neighboring house had a something familiar about it. a window stoodopen. he flew in. it was his own room. He perched upon the table."Come, let us be men!" said he, involuntarily imitating the chatter ofthe Parrot, and at the same moment he was again a copying clerk. but hewas sitting in the middle of the table."Heaven help me!" cried he. "How did I get up here and so buried insleep, too? After all, that was a very unpleasant, disagreeable dreamthat haunted me! The whole story is nothing but silly, stupid nonsense!"The following day, early in the morning, while the Clerk was still inbed, someone knocked at his door. It was his neighbor, a young Divine,who lived on the same floor. He walked in."Lend me your Galoshes," said he. "it is so wet in the garden, thoughthe sun is shining most invitingly. I should like to go out a little."He got the Galoshes, and he was soon below in a little duodecimo garden,where between two immense walls a plumtree and an apple tree werestanding. Even such a little garden as this was considered in themetropolis of Copenhagen as a great luxury.The young man wandered up and down the narrow paths, as well as theprescribed limits would allow. the clock struck six. without was heardthe horn of a post boy."To travel! to travel!" exclaimed he, overcome by most painful andpassionate remembrances. "That is the happiest thing in the world! Thatis the highest aim of all my wishes! Then at last would the agonizingrestlessness be allayed, which destroys my existence! But it must befar, far away! I would behold magnificent Switzerland. I would travel toItaly, and "It was a good thing that the power of the Galoshes worked asinstantaneously as lightning in a powder magazine would do, otherwisethe poor man with his overstrained wishes would have travelled aboutthe world too much for himself as well as for us. In short, he wastravelling. He was in the middle of Switzerland, but packed up witheight other passengers in the inside of an eternally creaking diligence.his head ached till it almost split, his weary neck could hardly bearthe heavy load, and his feet, pinched by his torturing boots, wereterribly swollen. He was in an intermediate state between sleeping andwaking. at variance with himself, with his company, with the country,and with the government. In his right pocket he had his letter ofcredit, in the left, his passport, and in a small leathern purse somedouble louis d'or, carefully sewn up in the bosom of his waistcoat.Every dream proclaimed that one or the other of these valuables waslost. wherefore he started up as in a fever. and the first movementwhich his hand made, described a magic triangle from the right pocket tothe left, and then up towards the bosom, to feel if he had them all safeor not. From the roof inside the carriage, umbrellas, walking sticks,hats, and sundry other articles were depending, and hindered the view,which was particularly imposing. He now endeavored as well as hewas able to dispel his gloom, which was caused by outward chancecircumstances merely, and on the bosom of nature imbibe the milk ofpurest human enjoyment.Grand, solemn, and dark was the whole landscape around. The giganticpine forests, on the pointed crags, seemed almost like little tufts ofheather, colored by the surrounding clouds. It began to snow, a coldwind blew and roared as though it were seeking a bride."Augh!" sighed he, "were we only on the other side the Alps, then weshould have summer, and I could get my letters of credit cashed. Theanxiety I feel about them prevents me enjoying Switzerland. Were I buton the other side!"And so saying he was on the other side in Italy, between Florence andRome. Lake Thracymene, illumined by the evening sun, lay like flaminggold between the dark blue mountain ridges. here, where Hannibaldefeated Flaminius, the rivers now held each other in their greenembraces. lovely, half naked children tended a herd of black swine,beneath a group of fragrant laurel trees, hard by the road side.Could we render this inimitable picture properly, then would everybodyexclaim, "Beautiful, unparalleled Italy!" But neither the young Divinesaid so, nor anyone of his grumbling companions in the coach of thevetturino.The poisonous flies and gnats swarmed around by thousands. in vain onewaved myrtle branches about like mad. the audacious insect populationdid not cease to sting. nor was there a single person in thewell crammed carriage whose face was not swollen and sore from theirravenous bites. The poor horses, tortured almost to death, suffered mostfrom this truly Egyptian plague. the flies alighted upon them in largedisgusting swarms. and if the coachman got down and scraped them off,hardly a minute elapsed before they were there again. The sun now set: afreezing cold, though of short duration pervaded the whole creation.it was like a horrid gust coming from a burial vault on a warm summer'sday but all around the mountains retained that wonderful green tonewhich we see in some old pictures, and which, should we not have seen asimilar play of color in the South, we declare at once to be unnatural.It was a glorious prospect. but the stomach was empty, the body tired.all that the heart cared and longed for was good night quarters. yethow would they be? For these one looked much more anxiously than for thecharms of nature, which every where were so profusely displayed.The road led through an olive grove, and here the solitary inn wassituated. Ten or twelve crippled beggars had encamped outside. Thehealthiest of them resembled, to use an expression of Marryat's,"Hunger's eldest son when he had come of age". the others were eitherblind, had withered legs and crept about on their hands, or witheredarms and fingerless hands. It was the most wretched misery, draggedfrom among the filthiest rags. "Excellenza, miserabili!" sighed they,thrusting forth their deformed limbs to view. Even the hostess, withbare feet, uncombed hair, and dressed in a garment of doubtful color,received the guests grumblingly. The doors were fastened with a loop ofstring. the floor of the rooms presented a stone paving half tornup. bats fluttered wildly about the ceiling. and as to the smelltherein no that was beyond description."You had better lay the cloth below in the stable," said one of thetravellers. "there, at all events, one knows what one is breathing."The windows were quickly opened, to let in a little fresh air. Quicker,however, than the breeze, the withered, sallow arms of the beggars werethrust in, accompanied by the eternal whine of "Miserabili, miserabili,excellenza!" On the walls were displayed innumerable inscriptions,written in nearly every language of Europe, some in verse, some inprose, most of them not very laudatory of "bella Italia."The meal was served. It consisted of a soup of salted water, seasonedwith pepper and rancid oil. The last ingredient played a very prominentpart in the salad. stale eggs and roasted cocks' combs furnished thegrand dish of the repast. the wine even was not without a disgustingtaste it was like a medicinal draught.At night the boxes and other effects of the passengers were placedagainst the rickety doors. One of the travellers kept watch while theothers slept. The sentry was our young Divine. How close it was in thechamber! The heat oppressive to suffocation the gnats hummed and stungunceasingly the "miserabili" without whined and moaned in their sleep."Travelling would be agreeable enough," said he groaning, "if one onlyhad no body, or could send it to rest while the spirit went on itspilgrimage unhindered, whither the voice within might call it. WhereverI go, I am pursued by a longing that is insatiable that I cannotexplain to myself, and that tears my very heart. I want something betterthan what is but what is fled in an instant. But what is it, and whereis it to be found? Yet, I know in reality what it is I wish for. Oh!most happy were I, could I but reach one aim could but reach thehappiest of all!"And as he spoke the word he was again in his home. the long whitecurtains hung down from the windows, and in the middle of the floorstood the black coffin. in it he lay in the sleep of death. His wishwas fulfilled the body rested, while the spirit went unhindered on itspilgrimage. "Let no one deem himself happy before his end," were thewords of Solon. and here was a new and brilliant proof of the wisdom ofthe old apothegm.Every corpse is a sphynx of immortality. here too on the black coffinthe sphynx gave us no answer to what he who lay within had written twodays before:"O mighty Death! thy silence teaches nought,Thou leadest only to the near grave's brink.Is broken now the ladder of my thoughts?Do I instead of mounting only sink?Our heaviest grief the world oft seeth not,Our sorest pain we hide from stranger eyes:And for the sufferer there is nothing leftBut the green mound that o'er the coffin lies."Two figures were moving in the chamber. We knew them both. it was thefairy of Care, and the emissary of Fortune. They both bent over thecorpse."Do you now see," said Care, "what happiness your Galoshes have broughtto mankind?""To him, at least, who slumbers here, they have brought an imperishableblessing," answered the other."Ah no!" replied Care. "He took his departure himself. he was not calledaway. His mental powers here below were not strong enough to reach thetreasures lying beyond this life, and which his destiny ordained heshould obtain. I will now confer a benefit on him."And she took the Galoshes from his feet. his sleep of death was ended.and he who had been thus called back again to life arose from hisdread couch in all the vigor of youth. Care vanished, and with her theGaloshes. She has no doubt taken them for herself, to keep them to alleternity.