for seizing the enemy's whole fleet. The Empire of Blefuscu is an islandparted from Lilliput only by a channel eight hundred yards wide. Iconsulted the most experienced seamen on the depth of the channel, andthey told me that in the middle, at high water, it was seventy glumguffs(about six feet of European measure). I walked toward the coast, where,lying down behind a hillock, I took out my spy glass, and viewed theenemy's fleet at anchor about fifty men of war, and other vessels. Ithen came back to my house and gave orders for a great quantity ofthe strongest cables and bars of iron. The cable was about as thick aspackthread, and the bars of the length and size of a knitting needle. Itrebled the cable to make it stronger, and for the same reason twistedthree of the iron bars together, bending the ends into a hook. Havingthus fixed fifty hooks to as many cables, I went back to the coast,and taking off my coat, shoes, and stockings, walked into the sea in myleather jacket about half an hour before high water. I waded with whathaste I could, swimming in the middle about thirty yards, till I feltground, and thus arrived at the fleet in less than half an hour. Theenemy was so frightened when they saw me that they leaped out of theirships and swam ashore, where there could not be fewer than thirtythousand. Then, fastening a hook to the hole at the prow of each ship,I tied all the cords together at the end. Meanwhile the enemy dischargedseveral thousand arrows, many of which stuck in my hands and face. Mygreatest fear was for my eyes, which I should have lost if I hadnot suddenly thought of the pair of spectacles which had escaped theEmperor's searchers. These I took out and fastened upon my nose, andthus armed went on with my work in spite of the arrows, many of whichstruck against the glasses of my spectacles, but without any othereffect than slightly disturbing them. Then, taking the knot in my hand,I began to pull. but not a ship would stir, for they were too fastheld by their anchors. Thus the boldest part of my enterprise remained.Letting go the cord, I resolutely cut with my knife the cables thatfastened the anchors, receiving more than two hundred shots in my faceand hands. Then I took up again the knotted end of the cables to whichmy hooks were tied, and with great ease drew fifty of the enemy'slargest men of war after me.When the Blefuscudians saw the fleet moving in order, and me pulling atthe end, they set up a scream of grief and despair that it is impossibleto describe. When I had got out of danger I stopped awhile to pick outthe arrows that stuck in my hands and face, and rubbed on some ofthe same ointment that was given me at my arrival. I then took off myspectacles, and after waiting about an hour, till the tide was a littlefallen, I waded on to the royal port of Lilliput.The Emperor and his whole Court stood on the shore awaiting me. They sawthe ships move forward in a large half moon, but could not discern me,who, in the middle of the channel, was under water up to my neck. TheEmperor concluded that I was drowned, and that the enemy's fleet wasapproaching in a hostile manner. But he was soon set at ease, for, thechannel growing shallower every step I made, I came in a short timewithin hearing, and holding up the end of the cable by which the fleetwas fastened, I cried in a loud voice: "Long live the most puissantEmperor of Lilliput!" The Prince received me at my landing with allpossible joy, and made me a Nardal on the spot, which is the highesttitle of honor among them.His Majesty desired that I would take some opportunity to bring all therest of his enemy's ships into his ports, and seemed to think of nothingless than conquering the whole Empire of Blefuscu, and becoming the solemonarch of the world. But I plainly protested that I would never be themeans of bringing a free and brave people into slavery. and thoughthe wisest of the Ministers were of my opinion, my open refusal was soopposed to his Majesty's ambition that he could never forgive me. Andfrom this time a plot began between himself and those of his Ministerswho were my enemies, that nearly ended in my utter destruction.About three weeks after this exploit there arrived an embassy fromBlefuscu, with humble offers of peace, which was soon concluded, onterms very advantageous to our Emperor. There were six ambassadors, witha train of about five hundred persons, all very magnificent. Having beenprivately told that I had befriended them, they made me a visit, andpaying me many compliments on my valor and generosity, invited meto their kingdom in the Emperor their master's name. I asked them topresent my most humble respects to the Emperor their master, whoseroyal person I resolved to attend before I returned to my own country.Accordingly, the next time I had the honor to see our Emperor I desiredhis general permission to visit the Blefuscudian monarch. This hegranted me, but in a very cold manner, of which I afterward learned thereason.When I was just preparing to pay my respects to the Emperor of Blefuscu,a distinguished person at Court, to whom I had once done a greatservice, came to my house very privately at night, and without sendinghis name desired admission. I put his lordship into my coat pocket, and,giving orders to a trusty servant to admit no one, I fastened the door,placed my visitor on the table, and sat down by it. His lordship's facewas full of trouble. and he asked me to hear him with patience, in amatter that highly concerned my honor and my life."You are aware," he said, "that Skyresh Bolgolam has been your mortalenemy ever since your arrival, and his hatred is increased sinceyour great success against Blefuscu, by which his glory as admiral isobscured. This lord and others have accused you of treason, and severalcouncils have been called in the most private manner on your account.Out of gratitude for your favors I procured information of the wholeproceedings, venturing my head for your service, and this was the chargeagainst you:"First, that you, having brought the imperial fleet of Blefuscu into theroyal port, were commanded by his Majesty to seize all the other ships,and put to death all the Bigendian exiles, and also all the people ofthe empire who would not immediately consent to break their eggs at thesmaller end. And that, like a false traitor to his Most Serene Majesty,you excused yourself from the service on pretence of unwillingness toforce the consciences and destroy the liberties and lives of an innocentpeople."Again, when ambassadors arrived from the Court of Blefuscu, like afalse traitor, you aided and entertained them, though you knew them tobe servants of a prince lately in open war against his Imperial Majesty."Moreover, you are now preparing, contrary to the duty of a faithfulsubject, to voyage to the Court of Blefuscu."In the debate on this charge," my friend continued, "his Majesty oftenurged the services you had done him, while the admiral and treasurerinsisted that you should be put to a shameful death. But Reldresal,secretary for private affairs, who has always proved himself your friendsuggested that if his Majesty would please to spare your life and onlygive orders to put out both your eyes, justice might in some measure besatisfied. At this Bolgolam rose up in fury, wondering how the secretarydared desire to preserve the life of a traitor. and the treasurer,pointing out the expense of keeping you, also urged your death. But hisMajesty was graciously pleased to say that since the council thought theloss of your eyes too easy a punishment, some other might afterward beinflicted. And the secretary, humbly desiring to be heard again, saidthat as to expense your allowance might be gradually lessened, so that,for want of sufficient food you should grow weak and faint, and die ina few months, when his Majesty's subjects might cut your flesh from yourbones and bury it, leaving the skeleton for the admiration of posterity."Thus, through the great friendship of the secretary the affair wasarranged. It was commanded that the plan of starving you by degreesshould be kept a secret. but the sentence of putting out your eyes wasentered on the books. In three days your friend the secretary will cometo your house and read the accusation before you, and point out thegreat mercy of his Majesty, that only condemns you to the loss ofyour eyes which, he does not doubt, you will submit to humbly andgratefully. Twenty of his Majesty's surgeons will attend, to see theoperation well performed, by discharging very sharp pointed arrows intothe balls of your eyes as you lie on the ground."I leave you," said my friend, "to consider what measures you will take.and, to escape suspicion, I must immediately return, as secretly as Icame."His lordship did so. and I remained alone, in great perplexity. At firstI was bent on resistance. for while I had liberty I could easily withstones pelt the metropolis to pieces. but I soon rejected that idea withhorror, remembering the oath I had made to the Emperor, and the favorsI had received from him. At last, having his Majesty's leave to paymy respects to the Emperor of Blefuscu, I resolved to take thisopportunity. Before the three days had passed I wrote a letter to myfriend the secretary telling him of my resolution. and, without waitingfor an answer, went to the coast, and entering the channel, betweenwading and swimming reached the port of Blefuscu, where the people, whohad long expected me, led me to the capital.His Majesty, with the royal family and great officers of the Court, cameout to receive me, and they entertained me in a manner suited to thegenerosity of so great a prince. I did not, however, mention my disgracewith the Emperor of Lilliput, since I did not suppose that prince woulddisclose the secret while I was out of his power. But in this, it soonappeared, I was deceived.