JACK SELLS THE COWONCE upon a time there was a poor widow who lived in a little cottagewith her only son Jack.Jack was a giddy, thoughtless boy, but very kind hearted andaffectionate. There had been a hard winter, and after it the poorwoman had suffered from fever and ague. Jack did no work as yet, and bydegrees they grew dreadfully poor. The widow saw that there was no meansof keeping Jack and herself from starvation but by selling her cow. soone morning she said to her son, 'I am too weak to go myself, Jack, soyou must take the cow to market for me, and sell her.'Jack liked going to market to sell the cow very much. but as he was onthe way, he met a butcher who had some beautiful beans in his hand. Jackstopped to look at them, and the butcher told the boy that they wereof great value, and persuaded the silly lad to sell the cow for thesebeans.When he brought them home to his mother instead of the money sheexpected for her nice cow, she was very vexed and shed many tears,scolding Jack for his folly. He was very sorry, and mother and son wentto bed very sadly that night. their last hope seemed gone.At daybreak Jack rose and went out into the garden.'At least,' he thought, 'I will sow the wonderful beans. Mother saysthat they are just common scarlet runners, and nothing else. but I mayas well sow them.'So he took a piece of stick, and made some holes in the ground, and putin the beans.That day they had very little dinner, and went sadly to bed, knowingthat for the next day there would be none and Jack, unable to sleep fromgrief and vexation, got up at day dawn and went out into the garden.What was his amazement to find that the beans had grown up in the night,and climbed up and up till they covered the high cliff that shelteredthe cottage, and disappeared above it! The stalks had twined and twistedthemselves together till they formed quite a ladder.'It would be easy to climb it,' thought Jack.And, having thought of the experiment, he at once resolved to carry itout, for Jack was a good climber. However, after his late mistake aboutthe cow, he thought he had better consult his mother first.WONDERFUL GROWTH OF THE BEANSTALKSo Jack called his mother, and they both gazed in silent wonder at theBeanstalk, which was not only of great height, but was thick enough tobear Jack's weight.'I wonder where it ends,' said Jack to his mother. 'I think I will climbup and see.'His mother wished him not to venture up this strange ladder, but Jackcoaxed her to give her consent to the attempt, for he was certain theremust be something wonderful in the Beanstalk. so at last she yielded tohis wishes.Jack instantly began to climb, and went up and up on the ladder likebean till everything he had left behind him the cottage, the village,and even the tall church tower looked quite little, and still he couldnot see the top of the Beanstalk.Jack felt a little tired, and thought for a moment that he would go backagain. but he was a very persevering boy, and he knew that the way tosucceed in anything is not to give up. So after resting for a moment hewent on.After climbing higher and higher, till he grew afraid to look down forfear he should be giddy, Jack at last reached the top of the Beanstalk,and found himself in a beautiful country, finely wooded, with beautifulmeadows covered with sheep. A crystal stream ran through the pastures.not far from the place where he had got off the Beanstalk stood a fine,strong castle.Jack wondered very much that he had never heard of or seen this castlebefore. but when he reflected on the subject, he saw that it was as muchseparated from the village by the perpendicular rock on which it stoodas if it were in another land.While Jack was standing looking at the castle, a very strange lookingwoman came out of the wood, and advanced towards him.She wore a pointed cap of quilted red satin turned up with ermine, herhair streamed loose over her shoulders, and she walked with a staff.Jack took off his cap and made her a bow.'If you please, ma'am,' said he, 'is this your house?''No,' said the old lady. 'Listen, and I will tell you the story of thatcastle.'Once upon a time there was a noble knight, who lived in this castle,which is on the borders of Fairyland. He had a fair and beloved wife andseveral lovely children: and as his neighbours, the little people,were very friendly towards him, they bestowed on him many excellent andprecious gifts.'Rumour whispered of these treasures. and a monstrous giant, who livedat no great distance, and who was a very wicked being, resolved toobtain possession of them.'So he bribed a false servant to let him inside the castle, when theknight was in bed and asleep, and he killed him as he lay. Then he wentto the part of the castle which was the nursery, and also killed all thepoor little ones he found there.'Happily for her, the lady was not to be found. She had gone with herinfant son, who was only two or three months old, to visit her oldnurse, who lived in the valley. and she had been detained all nightthere by a storm.'The next morning, as soon as it was light, one of the servants at thecastle, who had managed to escape, came to tell the poor lady of the sadfate of her husband and her pretty babes. She could scarcely believehim at first, and was eager at once to go back and share the fate of herdear ones. but the old nurse, with many tears, besought her to rememberthat she had still a child, and that it was her duty to preserve herlife for the sake of the poor innocent.'The lady yielded to this reasoning, and consented to remain at hernurse's house as the best place of concealment. for the servant told herthat the giant had vowed, if he could find her, he would kill both herand her baby. Years rolled on. The old nurse died, leaving her cottageand the few articles of furniture it contained to her poor lady,who dwelt in it, working as a peasant for her daily bread. Herspinning wheel and the milk of a cow, which she had purchased with thelittle money she had with her, sufficed for the scanty subsistence ofherself and her little son. There was a nice little garden attached tothe cottage, in which they cultivated peas, beans, and cabbages, and thelady was not ashamed to go out at harvest time, and glean in the fieldsto supply her little son's wants.'Jack, that poor lady is your mother. This castle was once yourfather's, and must again be yours.'Jack uttered a cry of surprise.'My mother! oh, madam, what ought I to do? My poor father! My dearmother!''Your duty requires you to win it back for your mother. But the taskis a very difficult one, and full of peril, Jack. Have you courage toundertake it?''I fear nothing when I am doing right,' said Jack.'Then,' said the lady in the red cap, 'you are one of those who slaygiants. You must get into the castle, and if possible possess yourselfof a hen that lays golden eggs, and a harp that talks. Remember, all thegiant possesses is really yours.' As she ceased speaking, the lady ofthe red hat suddenly disappeared, and of course Jack knew she was afairy.Jack determined at once to attempt the adventure. so he advanced, andblew the horn which hung at the castle portal. The door was opened in aminute or two by a frightful giantess, with one great eye in the middleof her forehead.As soon as Jack saw her he turned to run away, but she caught him, anddragged him into the castle.'Ho, ho!' she laughed terribly. 'You didn't expect to see me here, thatis clear! No, I shan't let you go again. I am weary of my life. I amso overworked, and I don't see why I should not have a page as well asother ladies. And you shall be my boy. You shall clean the knives, andblack the boots, and make the fires, and help me generally when thegiant is out. When he is at home I must hide you, for he has eaten upall my pages hitherto, and you would be a dainty morsel, my little lad.'While she spoke she dragged Jack right into the castle. The poor boywas very much frightened, as I am sure you and I would have been in hisplace. But he remembered that fear disgraces a man. so he struggled tobe brave and make the best of things.'I am quite ready to help you, and do all I can to serve you, madam,' hesaid, 'only I beg you will be good enough to hide me from your husband,for I should not like to be eaten at all.''That's a good boy,' said the Giantess, nodding her head. 'it is luckyfor you that you did not scream out when you saw me, as the other boyswho have been here did, for if you had done so my husband would haveawakened and have eaten you, as he did them, for breakfast. Come here,child. go into my wardrobe: he never ventures to open THAT. you will besafe there.'And she opened a huge wardrobe which stood in the great hall, and shuthim into it. But the keyhole was so large that it ad mitted plenty ofair, and he could see everything that took place through it. By and byhe heard a heavy tramp on the stairs, like the lumbering along of agreat cannon, and then a voice like thunder cried out.'Fe, fa, fi fo fum,I smell the breath of an Englishman.Let him be alive or let him be dead,I'll grind his bones to make my bread.''Wife,' cried the Giant, 'there is a man in the castle. Let me have himfor breakfast.''You are grown old and stupid,' cried the lady in her loud tones. 'Itis only a nice fresh steak off an elephant, that I have cooked for you,which you smell. There, sit down and make a good breakfast.'And she placed a huge dish before him of savoury steaming meat, whichgreatly pleased him, and made him forget his idea of an Englishman beingin the castle. When he had breakfasted he went out for a walk. and thenthe Giantess opened the door, and made Jack come out to help her. Hehelped her all day. She fed him well, and when evening came put him backin the wardrobe.THE HEN THAT LAYS GOLDEN EGGS.The Giant came in to supper. Jack watched him through the keyhole, andwas amazed to see him pick a wolf's bone, and put half a fowl at a timeinto his capacious mouth.When the supper was ended he bade his wife bring him his hen that laidthe golden eggs.'It lays as well as it did when it belonged to that paltry knight,' hesaid. 'indeed I think the eggs are heavier than ever.'The Giantess went away, and soon returned with a little brown hen, whichshe placed on the table before her husband. 'And now, my dear,' shesaid, 'I am going for a walk, if you don't want me any longer.''Go,' said the Giant. 'I shall be glad to have a nap by and by.'Then he took up the brown hen and said to her:'Lay!' And she instantly laid a golden egg.'Lay!' said the Giant again. And she laid another.'Lay!' he repeated the third time. And again a golden egg lay on thetable.Now Jack was sure this hen was that of which the fairy had spoken.By and by the Giant put the hen down on the floor, and soon after wentfast asleep, snoring so loud that it sounded like thunder.Directly Jack perceived that the Giant was fast asleep, he pushed openthe door of the wardrobe and crept out. very softly he stole across theroom, and, picking up the hen, made haste to quit the apartment. He knewthe way to the kitchen, the door of which he found was left ajar. heopened it, shut and locked it after him, and flew back to the Beanstalk,which he descended as fast as his feet would move.When his mother saw him enter the house she wept for joy, for she hadfeared that the fairies had carried him away, or that the Giant hadfound him. But Jack put the brown hen down before her, and told her howhe had been in the Giant's castle, and all his adventures. She was veryglad to see the hen, which would make them rich once more.THE MONEY BAGS.Jack made another journey up the Beanstalk to the Giant's castle oneday while his mother had gone to market. but first he dyed his hair anddisguised himself. The old woman did not know him again, and dragged himin as she had done before, to help her to do the work. but she heard herhusband coming, and hid him in the wardrobe, not thinking that it wasthe same boy who had stolen the hen. She bade him stay quite stillthere, or the Giant would eat him.Then the Giant came in saying:'Fe, fa, fi fo fum,I smell the breath of an Englishman.Let him be alive or let him be dead,I'll grind his bones to make my bread.''Nonsense!' said the wife, 'it is only a roasted bullock that I thoughtwould be a tit bit for your supper. sit down and I will bring it upat once.' The Giant sat down, and soon his wife brought up a roastedbullock on a large dish, and they began their supper. Jack was amazed tosee them pick the bones of the bullock as if it had been a lark. As soonas they had finished their meal, the Giantess rose and said:'Now, my dear, with your leave I am going up to my room to finish thestory I am reading. If you want me call for me.''First,' answered the Giant, 'bring me my money bags, that I may countmy golden pieces before I sleep.' The Giantess obeyed. She went and soonreturned with two large bags over her shoulders, which she put down byher husband.'There,' she said. 'that is all that is left of the knight's money. Whenyou have spent it you must go and take another baron's castle.''That he shan't, if I can help it,' thought Jack.The Giant, when his wife was gone, took out heaps and heaps of goldenpieces, and counted them, and put them in piles, till he was tired ofthe amusement. Then he swept them all back into their bags, and leaningback in his chair fell fast asleep, snoring so loud that no other soundwas audible.Jack stole softly out of the wardrobe, and taking up the bags of money(which were his very own, because the Giant had stolen them from hisfather), he ran off, and with great difficulty descending the Beanstalk,laid the bags of gold on his mother's table. She had just returned fromtown, and was crying at not finding Jack.'There, mother, I have brought you the gold that my father lost.''Oh, Jack! you are a very good boy, but I wish you would not risk yourprecious life in the Giant's castle. Tell me how you came to go thereagain.'And Jack told her all about it.Jack's mother was very glad to get the money, but she did not like himto run any risk for her.But after a time Jack made up his mind to go again to the Giant'scastle.THE TALKING HARP.So he climbed the Beanstalk once more, and blew the horn at the Giant'sgate. The Giantess soon opened the door. she was very stupid, and didnot know him again, but she stopped a minute before she took him in. Shefeared another robbery. but Jack's fresh face looked so innocent thatshe could not resist him, and so she bade him come in, and again hid himaway in the wardrobe.By and by the Giant came home, and as soon as he had crossed thethreshold he roared out:'Fe, fa, fi fo fum, I smell the breath of an Englishman. Let him bealive or let him be dead, I'll grind his bones to make my bread.''You stupid old Giant,' said his wife, 'you only smell a nice sheep,which I have grilled for your dinner.'And the Giant sat down, and his wife brought up a whole sheep for hisdinner. When he had eaten it all up, he said:'Now bring me my harp, and I will have a little music while you takeyour walk.'The Giantess obeyed, and returned with a beautiful harp. The frameworkwas all sparkling with diamonds and rubies, and the strings were all ofgold.'This is one of the nicest things I took from the knight,' said theGiant. 'I am very fond of music, and my harp is a faithful servant.'So he drew the harp towards him, and said:'Play!'And the harp played a very soft, sad air.'Play something merrier!' said the Giant.And the harp played a merry tune.'Now play me a lullaby,' roared the Giant. and the harp played a sweetlullaby, to the sound of which its master fell asleep.Then Jack stole softly out of the wardrobe, and went into the hugekitchen to see if the Giantess had gone out. he found no one there, sohe went to the door and opened it softly, for he thought he could not doso with the harp in his hand.Then he entered the Giant's room and seized the harp and ran away withit. but as he jumped over the threshold the harp called out:'MASTER! MASTER!'And the Giant woke up.With a tremendous roar he sprang from his seat, and in two strides hadreached the door.But Jack was very nimble. He fled like lightning with the harp, talkingto it as he went (for he saw it was a fairy), and telling it he was theson of its old master, the knight.Still the Giant came on so fast that he was quite close to poor Jack,and had stretched out his great hand to catch him. But, luckily, justat that moment he stepped upon a loose stone, stumbled, and fell flat onthe ground, where he lay at his full length.This accident gave Jack time to get on the Beanstalk and hasten down it.but just as he reached their own garden he beheld the Giant descendingafter him.'Mother I mother!' cried Jack, 'make haste and give me the axe.'His mother ran to him with a hatchet in her hand, and Jack with onetremendous blow cut through all the Beanstalks except one.'Now, mother, stand out of the way!' said he.THE GIANT BREAKS HIS NECK.Jack's mother shrank back, and it was well she did so, for just as theGiant took hold of the last branch of the Beanstalk, Jack cut the stemquite through and darted from the spot.Down came the Giant with a terrible crash, and as he fell on his head,he broke his neck, and lay dead at the feet of the woman he had so muchinjured.Before Jack and his mother had recovered from their alarm and agitation,a beautiful lady stood before them.'Jack,' said she, 'you have acted like a brave knight's son, and deserveto have your inheritance restored to you. Dig a grave and bury theGiant, and then go and kill the Giantess.''But,' said Jack, 'I could not kill anyone unless I were fighting withhim. and I could not draw my sword upon a woman. Moreover, the Giantesswas very kind to me.'The Fairy smiled on Jack.'I am very much pleased with your generous feeling,' she said.'Nevertheless, return to the castle, and act as you will find needful.'Jack asked the Fairy if she would show him the way to the castle, as theBeanstalk was now down. She told him that she would drive him there inher chariot, which was drawn by two peacocks. Jack thanked her, and satdown in the chariot with her.The Fairy drove him a long distance round, till they reached a villagewhich lay at the bottom of the hill. Here they found a number ofmiserable looking men assembled. The Fairy stopped her carriage andaddressed them:'My friends,' said she, 'the cruel giant who oppressed you and ate upall your flocks and herds is dead, and this young gentleman was themeans of your being delivered from him, and is the son of your kind oldmaster, the knight.'The men gave a loud cheer at these words, and pressed forward to saythat they would serve Jack as faithfully as they had served his father.The Fairy bade them follow her to the castle, and they marched thitherin a body, and Jack blew the horn and demanded admittance.The old Giantess saw them coming from the turret loop hole. She wasvery much frightened, for she guessed that something had happened to herhusband. and as she came downstairs very fast she caught her foot in herdress, and fell from the top to the bottom and broke her neck.When the people outside found that the door was not opened to them,they took crowbars and forced the portal. Nobody was to be seen, but onleaving the hall they found the body of the Giantess at the foot of thestairs.Thus Jack took possession of the castle. The Fairy went and brought hismother to him, with the hen and the harp. He had the Giantess buried,and endeavoured as much as lay in his power to do right to those whomthe Giant had robbed.Before her departure for fairyland, the Fairy explained to Jack that shehad sent the butcher to meet him with the beans, in order to try whatsort of lad he was.If you had looked at the gigantic Beanstalk and only stupidly wonderedabout it,' she said, 'I should have left you where misfortune had placedyou, only restoring her cow to your mother. But you showed an inquiringmind, and great courage and enterprise, therefore you deserve to rise.and when you mounted the Beanstalk you climbed the Ladder of Fortune.'She then took her leave of Jack and his mother.