(_Ulster Irish._)Down in Fannet, in times gone by, lived Jamie Freel and his mother.Jamie was the widow's sole support. his strong arm worked for heruntiringly, and as each Saturday night came round he poured his wagesinto her lap, thanking her dutifully for the halfpence which shereturned him for tobacco.He was extolled by his neighbours as the best son ever known or heardof. But he had neighbours of whose opinions he was ignorant neighbourswho lived pretty close to him, whom he had never seen, who are, indeed,rarely seen by mortals, except on May Eves or Halloweens.An old ruined castle, about a quarter of a mile from his cabin, was saidto be the abode of the "wee folk." Every Halloween were the ancientwindows lighted up, and passersby saw little figures flitting to andfro inside the building, while they heard the music of flutes and pipes.It was well known that fairy revels took place. but nobody had thecourage to intrude on them.Jamie had often watched the little figures from a distance, and listenedto the charming music, wondering what the inside of the castle was like.but one Halloween he got up, and took his cap, saying to his mother,"I'm awa to the castle to seek my fortune.""What!" cried she. "Would you venture there you that's the widow's onlyson? Dinna be sae venturesome and foolitch, Jamie! They'll kill you, an'then what'll come o' me?""Never fear, mother. nae harm'll happen me, but I maun gae."He set out, and, as he crossed the potato field, came in sight of thecastle, whose windows were ablaze with light that seemed to turn therusset leaves, still clinging to the crab tree branches, into gold.Halting in the grove at one side of the ruin, he listened to the elfinrevelry, and the laughter and singing made him all the more determinedto proceed.Numbers of little people, the largest about the size of a child of fiveyears old, were dancing to the music of flutes and fiddles, while othersdrank and feasted."Welcome, Jamie Freel! Welcome, welcome, Jamie!" cried the company,perceiving their visitor. The word "Welcome" was caught up and repeatedby every voice in the castle.Time flew, and Jamie was enjoying himself very much, when his hostssaid, "We're going to ride to Dublin to night to steal a young lady.Will you come, too, Jamie Freel?""Ay, that I will," cried the rash youth, thirsting for adventure.A troop of horses stood at the door. Jamie mounted, and his steed rosewith him into the air. He was presently flying over his mother'scottage, surrounded by the elfin troop, and on and on they went, overbold mountains, over little hills, over the deep Lough Swilley, overtowns and cottages, where people were burning nuts and eating apples andkeeping merry Halloween. It seemed to Jamie that they flew all roundIreland before they got to Dublin."This is Derry," said the fairies, flying over the cathedral spire. andwhat was said by one voice was repeated by all the rest, till fiftylittle voices were crying out, "Derry! Derry! Derry!"In like manner was Jamie informed as they passed over each town on theroute, and at length he heard the silvery voices cry, "Dublin! Dublin!"It was no mean dwelling that was to be honoured by the fairy visit, butone of the finest houses in Stephen's Green.The troop dismounted near a window, and Jamie saw a beautiful face on apillow in a splendid bed. He saw the young lady lifted and carried away,while the stick which was dropped in her place on the bed took her exactform.The lady was placed before one rider and carried a short way, then givenanother, and the names of the towns were cried as before.They were approaching home. Jamie heard "Rathmullan," "Milford,""Tamney," and then he knew they were near his own house."You've all had your turn at carrying the young lady," said he. "Whywouldn't I get her for a wee piece?""Ay, Jamie," replied they pleasantly, "you may take your turn atcarrying her, to be sure."Holding his prize very tightly he dropped down near his mother's door."Jamie Freel! Jamie Freel! is that the way you treat us?" cried they,and they, too, dropped down near the door.Jamie held fast, though he knew not what he was holding, for the littlefolk turned the lady into all sorts of strange shapes. At one moment shewas a black dog, barking and trying to bite. at another a glowing bar ofiron, which yet had no heat. then again a sack of wool.But still Jamie held her, and the baffled elves were turning away when atiny woman, the smallest of the party, exclaimed, "Jamie Freel has herawa frae us, but he sall nae hae gude of her, for I'll mak' her deaf anddumb," and she threw something over the young girl.While they rode off, disappointed, Jamie Freel lifted the latch and wentin."Jamie man!" cried his mother, "you've been awa all night. What havethey done on you?""Naething bad, mother. I hae the very best o' gude luck. Here's abeautiful young lady I hae brought you for company.""Bless us and save us!" exclaimed his mother. and for some minutes shewas so astonished she could not think of anything else to say.Jamie told the story of the night's adventure, ending by saying, "Surelyyou wouldna have allowed me to let her gang with them to be lost forever?""But a _lady_, Jamie! How can a lady eat we'er (our) poor diet and livein we'er poor way? I ax you that, you foolitch fellow!""Well, mother, sure it's better for her to be over here nor yonder," andhe pointed in the direction of the castle.Meanwhile the deaf and dumb girl shivered in her light clothing,stepping close to the humble turf fire."Poor crathur, she's quare and handsome! Nae wonder they set theirhearts on her," said the old woman, gazing at their guest with pity andadmiration. "We maun dress her first. but what in the name o' fortunehae I fit for the likes of her to wear?"She went to her press in "the room" and took out her Sunday gown ofbrown drugget. She then opened a drawer and drew forth a pair of whitestockings, a long snowy garment of fine linen, and a cap, her "deaddress," as she called it.These articles of attire had long been ready for a certain tristeceremony, in which she would some day fill the chief part, and only sawthe light occasionally when they were hung out to air. but she waswilling to give even these to the fair trembling visitor, who wasturning in dumb sorrow and wonder from her to Jamie, and from Jamie backto her.The poor girl suffered herself to be dressed, and then sat down on a"creepie" in the chimney corner and buried her face in her hands."What'll we do to keep up a lady like thou?" cried the old woman."I'll work for you both, mother," replied the son."An' how could a lady live on we'er poor diet?" she repeated."I'll work for her," was all Jamie's answer.He kept his word. The young lady was very sad for a long time, and tearsstole down her cheeks many an evening, while the old woman span by thefire and Jamie made salmon nets, an accomplishment acquired by him inhopes of adding to the comfort of their guest.But she was always gentle, and tried to smile when she perceived themlooking at her. and by degrees she adapted herself to their ways andmode of life. It was not very long before she began to feed the pig,mash potatoes and meal for the fowls, and knit blue worsted socks.So a year passed and Halloween came round again. "Mother," said Jamie,taking down his cap, "I'm off to the ould castle to seek my fortune.""Are you mad, Jamie?" cried his mother in terror. "sure they'll kill youthis time for what you done on them last year."Jamie made light of her fears and went his way.As he reached the crab tree grove he saw bright lights in the castlewindows as before, and heard loud talking. Creeping under the window heheard the wee folk say, "That was a poor trick Jamie Freel played usthis night last year, when he stole the young lady from us.""Ay," said the tiny woman, "an' I punished him for it, for there shesits a dumb image by the hearth, but he does na' know that three dropsout o' this glass that I hold in my hand wad gie her her hearing andspeech back again."Jamie's heart beat fast as he entered the hall. Again he was greeted bya chorus of welcomes from the company "Here comes Jamie Freel! Welcome,welcome, Jamie!"As soon as the tumult subsided the little woman said, "You be to drinkour health, Jamie, out o' this glass in my hand."Jamie snatched the glass from her and darted to the door. He never knewhow he reached his cabin, but he arrived there breathless and sank on astove by the fire."You're kilt, surely, this time, my poor boy," said his mother."No, indeed, better luck than ever this time!" and he gave the ladythree drops of the liquid that still remained at the bottom of theglass, notwithstanding his mad race over the potato field.The lady began to speak, and her first words were words of thanks toJamie.The three inmates of the cabin had so much to say to one another that,long after cock crow, when the fairy music had quite ceased, they weretalking round the fire."Jamie," said the lady, "be pleased to get me paper and pen and inkthat I may write to my father and tell him what has become of me."She wrote, but weeks passed and she received no answer. Again and againshe wrote, and still no answer.At length she said, "You must come with me to Dublin, Jamie, to find myfather.""I hae no money to hire a car for you," he answered. "an' how can youtravel to Dublin on your foot?"But she implored him so much that he consented to set out with her andwalk all the way from Fannet to Dublin. It was not as easy as the fairyjourney. but at last they rang the bell at the door of the house inStephen's Green."Tell my father that his daughter is here," said she to the servant whoopened the door."The gentleman that lives here has no daughter, my girl. He had one, butshe died better nor a year ago.""Do you not know me, Sullivan?""No, poor girl, I do not.""Let me see the gentleman. I only ask to see him.""Well, that's not much to ax. We'll see what can be done."In a few moments the lady's father came to the door."How dare you call me your father?" cried the old gentleman angrily."You are an impostor. I have no daughter.""Look in my face, father, and surely you'll remember me.""My daughter is dead and buried. She died a long, long time ago." Theold gentleman's voice changed from anger to sorrow. "You can go," heconcluded."Stop, dear father, till you look at this ring on my finger. Look atyour name and mine engraved on it.""It certainly is my daughter's ring, but I do not know how you came byit. I fear in no honest way.""Call my mother _she_ will be sure to know me," said the poor girl, whoby this time was weeping bitterly."My poor wife is beginning to forget her sorrow. She seldom speaks ofher daughter now. Why should I renew her grief by reminding her of herloss?"But the young lady persevered till at last the mother was sent for."Mother," she began, when the old lady came to the door, "don't _you_know your daughter?""I have no daughter. My daughter died, and was buried a long, long timeago.""Only look in my face and surely you'll know me."The old lady shook her head."You have all forgotten me. but look at this mole on my neck. Surely,mother, you know me now?""Yes, yes," said her mother, "my Gracie had a mole on her neck likethat. but then I saw her in the coffin, and saw the lid shut down uponher."It became Jamie's turn to speak, and he gave the history of the fairyjourney, of the theft of the young lady, of the figure he had seen laidin its place, of her life with his mother in Fannet, of last Halloween,and of the three drops that had released her from her enchantments.She took up the story when he paused and told how kind the mother andson had been to her.The parents could not make enough of Jamie. They treated him with everydistinction, and when he expressed his wish to return to Fannet, saidthey did not know what to do to express their gratitude.But an awkward complication arose. The daughter would not let him gowithout her. "If Jamie goes, I'll go, too," she said. "He saved me fromthe fairies, and has worked for me ever since. If it had not been forhim, dear father and mother, you would never have seen me again. If hegoes, I'll go, too."This being her resolution, the old gentleman said that Jamie shouldbecome his son in law. The mother was brought from Fannet in acoach and four, and there was a splendid wedding.They all lived together in the grand Dublin house, and Jamie was heir tountold wealth at his father in law's death.LETITIA MACLINTOCK.