There was a king who had half a hundred hares. He also had a daughter who was exceptionally beautiful. Many suitors came to her, but none succeeded, for her father had decreed that he would give her in marriage only to the person who could tend half a hundred hares for three days in the woods, bringing them all back to the palace every evening. Anyone who attempted to do this, but failed, should have three strips of skin cut from his back, with salt and pepper sprinkled into the wound. He would then be banished from the land or be fined five hundred thalers.In spite of these harsh conditions a number of suitors tried their luck, but none of them succeeded.Now there was a man who had three sons: Povl, Per, and Jesper, and they wanted to try their luck.Povl, the oldest, presented himself first, and was accepted into service. The next morning he went out with the hares.As soon as they had closed the gate the king said, "You must take care of them," but they were hard animals to care for, because as soon as they were outside they scattered in all directions.Povl saw no more of them, although he ran hither and thither, both far and wide. He had brought a snack with him from the palace, so when he got hungry he sat down to eat.Then an old woman came up to him and said, "Won't you give me a bite from your snack, little chap?""No, I won't. I don't have enough for myself," he said. "Just be on your way.""Yes, I'll have to be off again," she said, and went on her way."After Povl had eaten, he of course again began to think about collecting the hares. "It doesn't look good," he said to himself. "How shall I find the hares and gain control over them?"He ran, and he sought, but he could not round up the hares, and in the evening he came back to the palace empty handed. Then three strips of skin were cut from his back. pepper and salt were sprinkled into the wound. and finally he was banished from the land, for he had no money to pay the fine.At home his parent heard the news, and they were very discouraged. Nonetheless, Per, the second brother, wanted to try his luck as well. He reported to the palace and was also accepted into service. The king told him that he was to take care of the hares as soon as the gate was opened. But the next morning when they opened the gate, whoosh, the hares scattered to all four corners of the world. And, briefly stated, it did not go one whit better with him than with his brother.The same old woman came to him and asked for food, but he also said to her, "No, be on your way. There's nothing here for you."In the end, three strips of skin were cut from his back. pepper and salt were sprinkled into the wound. and he was banished from the land.The old parents were terribly angered to learn this. But then Jesper, the youngest son, came to them and asked permission to try his luck. He felt sure that luck would be with him and that he would win the princess. Until now he had never asked anything of them. The mother, in truth, held him in the highest esteem, so he was allowed to set forth.Approaching the palace, Jesper met the king behind the barn, but he did not know that it was the king.Jesper said, "Will you go in to the king, greet him from me, and tell him that I would like to serve here as the hare herder?"Why?" asked the king."The king has proclaimed that the one who can tend his fifty hares for three days shall have his daughter to wife, and I would like to have her."So that's it," said the king, "but do you also know, that if you cannot tend them, three strips of flesh will be cut from your back? And you should know straightaway that I am king."And thus the situation was decided.Jesper's service was to begin the next day. The hares were driven out, and as soon as the gate was opened, whoosh, they scattered in all directions, and not a trace of them was to be seen anywhere."This is crazy," thought Jesper. "What kind of hares are these? How is this going to end?"He wandered about in the woods with his lunch bucket under his arm looking for the hares. Growing tired and hungry, he sat under a tree to eat his snack, when the old woman came up to him and asked if he would not give her a little piece of bread."Yes," he said, "you may as well eat my entire snack. I probably cannot eat anyway, and here is a big piece of meat. you may have it as well."What is the matter with you?" she asked."Oh, I have taken on myself to win the princess, and now all the hares have run away. I cannot find them, and because of that I must now be banished from the land and never again see my father and mother.""Right, but we can find some help for you, because you were so good to me. But let's eat first."When they had finished, she took the gnawed bone and gave it back to him, saying, "I have made a flute from it, and when you blow into one end you can bring all the hares to you whether they are ever so far away or whether they are than under lock and key, if they are still alive. But if you blow into the other end, they will run away again to all corners of the world so fast that no one can get hold of them. You must always keep the flute with you, and if you use it right, you probably will have the good fortune to win the princess."Then the old woman said farewell and thank you, and went her way."Thanks also to you," said Jesper and I can believe that he was glad for this flute, thinking that his difficulties were now over.As soon as the old woman was gone he gave it a try, and everything went well enough. When he blew into one end, all fifty hares came running up to him at once, and when he blew into the other end, they fled away like the wind.When it was evening he blew hares together, and dancing around him they entered the king's gate. The king himself came out to count them, and they were all there. Then he went to the queen and talked to her about what should be done."We cannot let it be known that such a fellow is getting our daughter."They put their heads together, and at last the king said that the next day the princess should disguise herself and go out to him and seek to buy a hare from him Thus he would be lacking one when they were counted.In the morning when the hares were let out they ran away as usual, but Jesper thought, "Let the critters run. I'll win the princess anyway."Soon afterward, while he was lost in his own thoughts, a ragged urchin girl came to him and asked if she could not buy one of his hares. Her parents, she said, had guests and nothing fresh to offer them."No, I cannot sell you one," he said, "for they are not my own, and I need a full count in the evening when I get home."Yes, she knew that, but still she asked what he would take for one.Finally he said, "If I lose the princess it would be the worst thing that could befall me, but if you must have one, you will have to give me a kiss for it."Yes, she agreed to do this, and she gave him what he asked for. Then he blew the hares together and gave her one of them in her apron. She made her way homeward, happy about the arrangement that she had made, but just as she reached the gate, Jesper blew on his flute, and whoosh, the hare jumped from her apron and was gone. With a sad face the princess went to her mother and told her what had happened. But she said nothing at all about the kiss.So there was another discussion as to what should be done, and the king and the queen together decided that the queen should go out and give it a try. So that afternoon, disguised in old clothes, she went out into the woods to Jesper and asked if she could not buy a hare."No," he said, that was not possible, for they were not his own.She begged and promised so well that he finally agreed to let her have one.He blew the hares together, picked up one of them by its hind legs, and said, "If you want this one you will have to lift up its tail and kiss its behind."The queen thought that this was disgusting, but she would have to go through with it rather than to let her daughter marry such a fellow and be plagued with him throughout her life. Furthermore, no one would see her do it.So she got the hare, put it in a sack, and walked toward home with the sack on her back. But just as she was entering the gate Jesper blew on his flute, and whish, the hare jumped from the sack, leaving her standing there with a very sad face.Then she went to the king and told him part of what had happened, adding, "Now you yourself must go there, and do better than we have done. It is all about our daughter's happiness."Yes," said the king, "but let us see what happens this evening. It could be that he will not bring all of them home."But, in fact, he was tired of the game. "Am I some miserable wretch who cannot keep hold of a hare?" he thought.That evening Jesper blew his hares together, and they obediently followed him to the palace grounds. The king came down and counted them, and they were all there.Well, the third day arrived, and Jesper went out with his hares. A little later the king, disguised as a huntsman and riding a dapple gray horse, went out as well.Meeting Jesper, he said, "You have many hares out here.""Yes, I have half a hundred," said Jesper."Would it be possible for me to see one of them.""Yes."Jesper blew on his flute, and all the hares came running up to him.."Could I buy one of them?" asked the huntsman."No, that's not possible," said Jesper, "for they are not my own. They belong to the king, and I have agreed to the conditions that if I do not keep all of them, then I will be banished from the land and punished further as well.""Oh, it won't be that bad for you," said the huntsman. "I will pay you whatever you ask for.""I agree with that," said Jesper "Stand by your horse and kiss it right under its tail, and then I'll give you a hare."The king turned as red in the face as an angry turkey cock. It was terrible that such a simple oaf would dare to say such a thing to him.But he held his temper and thought, "If no one sees it, there will be no shame in it. I'll do what he says."So he stood by the horse, lifted up its tail, and kissed the beast right in its behind.Afterward he got the hare and put it in his saddlebag, which he buckled tightly shut. "It will stay there," he thought.But just as he arrived at the gate and was about to ride through, Jesper gave his flute a little tweet and whish, the hare was gone."He is a dangerous lad," thought the king, and he was quite abashed that he had had no better luck than the others.That evening the lad came home with the hares at his heels, jumping and dancing. It was a delight. The king came down and counted them, and of course they were all there.In the meantime the queen and the princess had spoken to the king, claiming that Jesper's task had been too easy.The king agreed with them, so after the hares had been counted, he said to Jesper, "By rights you should have my daughter, but I find that you have won her too easily. You must admit that she will bring you great happiness. Therefore it is not unjust that one of these days I should give you a new test. If you can fulfill it, you shall have my daughter. So it shall be."Of course Jesper was not pleased with this, but because he could do nothing about it, he decided that the best thing would be to accept it cheerfully.Now the new task was to be extremely difficult, so there was to be a council to judge it. The king issued an invitation to all the princes and great lords who were unmarried to a grand feast when he would give his daughter away. They came from far and near, and gathered in the palace on the appointed day. After all the guests had eaten, the king commanded that a large brewing vat be placed in the middle of the room.Then he said, "Now, princes and lords, bear witness that the one of you who can tell this vat full of truths, he shall have my daughter."Then they began to tell stories, one after the other, but nothing came from the contest.Finally the king said, "Yes, we probably should have called on Jesper the hare herder. Let him try his luck."So it was Jesper's turn. He was not very good at storytelling, he said, but that could not be helped, so he would just relate how it went the other day when he was looking after the king's hares for the first time:"A girl in ragged clothes came to me and wanted to get a hare from me. She begged long and hard, finally promising to give me a kiss for one. She got the hare, and I got the kiss. And this girl was the princess, is that not so?"They all looked at the princess, and she turned red in the face, but then stood up and said yes."Do you want to hear more?" asked the boy."Yes, the vat is not yet full," said the king.So he continued: "In the afternoon of the same day an old woman came to me, and she too wanted to get a hare from me. At first I said no, but she kept begging, and finally I promised her a hare on the condition that she kiss its behind, and she did it too. And that woman was the queen. ""What are you saying?" cried the king. He stood up, and they all stood up as all."Oh, never mind, let him have our daughter," said the queen.Everyone stared at her, and the boy said, "Is it not true?""Yes," she admitted, but did not relate the whole story."Should I tell any more truths?" said the boy."Yes, the vat is not yet full."So he began again: "On the third day I went out with the hares, and a huntsman came by, riding on a dapple gray horse, and he wanted to buy a hare from me, offering me gold or whatever I wanted, if he could have one. We finally agreed on a price: He was to stand by his horse, lift up its tail, and kiss its behind. I could see that he did not want to do this, but finally he did so anyway. And this huntsman was no one other than ...""Stop! Stop! That's enough! That's enough! The vat is now full," said the king. He had heard enough.So Jesper got the princess and half the kingdom.The king put on the wedding, and it was so joyful that it was heard throughout the land. Jesper sent for his parents, so they too could be present, and I was there as well.I did not leave until late at night. They did not let me go until they had given me some of the wedding feast. I got beer in a scarf and bread in a bottle. Then they gave me a paper gown, a hat made of butter, and a pair of glass clogs for my feet. As I went outside the door my butter hat melted, and it ran down around my ears. and when I reached the pavement my glass clogs shattered. Then the wind tore my paper gown apart. I was about to eat a piece of bread to give myself strength, but when I broke the bottle to get at it, the bread fell into the dirt in the street. When I opened the scarf to drink a drop of beer, the beer ran out into the gutter. So there I stood, naked and barefoot and hungry and thirsty.As I stood there they shot a cannon salute for Jesper and the princess. The cannonball came flying by, but I was quick and jumped on it, and thus I was shot home to the others in order to tell them this story.