Jesus, it is said, was once going on a journey, and as he was proceeding a Jew came up to him and went with him. . . .They came to a lonely place, where Jesus made three heaps of earth, and by his word turned them into three blocks of massive gold. . . . The Jew then endeavored to take away the blocks of gold, but found them too heavy to be moved. When he was thus wasting his strength in trying to move them, Jesus returned to the spot, and said to the Jew, "Have nothing to do with these heaps of gold. They will cause the death of three men. Leave them and follow me."The man obeyed, and leaving the gold where it lay, went away with Jesus.Three travelers then happened to pass that way, and were delighted to find the gold. They agreed that each should take one. Finding it, however, a matter of impossibility to remove them, they resolved that one of them should go to the city for carts and food for them to eat, whilst the other two should watch the treasure.So one of the travelers set out for the city, leaving the other two to guard the gold. During his absence the thoughts of the two travelers were engrossed in projecting some means whereby they could become the sole sharers of the gold to the exclusion of the one who had gone to the city. They finally came to the diabolical resolution to kill their companion on his return.The same murderous design had entered the mind of the latter in reference to his two companions. He bought food and mixed poison with it. and then returned to the spot to offer it to them. No sooner had he arrived there, than without a word of warning his companions fell upon him, and belabored him to death. They then began to eat the food which was in its turn to destroy them. and so as they were partaking of this poisoned repast, they fell down, and expired in the struggles of death.A little while after, Jesus and the Jew were returning from their journey along that road, and seeing the three men lying dead amidst the gold, Jesus exclaimed, "This will be the end of the covetous, who love gold."He then raised the three men to life, and elicited from them a confession of their guilt. They repented of their sin, and thence forward became disciples of Jesus.Nothing, however, could make the Jew overcome his avarice. He persisted in his desire to be come the possessor of the gold. but, whilst he was struggling to carry away the blocks, the earth opened and swallowed him up and the gold with him.