Once on a time there was a king who had become a widower. By his queen hehad one daughter, who was so clever and lovely, there wasn't a cleverer orlovelier princess in all the world. So the king went on a long timesorrowing for the queen, whom he had loved so much, but at last he gotweary of living alone, and married another queen, who was a widow, andhad, too, an only daughter. but this daughter was just as bad and ugly asthe other was kind, and clever, and lovely. The stepmother and herdaughter were jealous of the princess, because she was so lovely. but solong as the king was at home they daren't do her any harm, he was so fondof her.Well, after a time he fell into war with another king, and went out tobattle with his host, and then the stepmother thought she might do as shepleased. and so she both starved and beat the princess, and was after herin every hole and corner of the house. At last she thought everything toogood for her, and turned her out to herd cattle. So there she went aboutwith the cattle, and herded them in the woods and on the fells. As forfood, she got little or none, and she grew thin and wan, and was alwayssobbing and sorrowful. Now in the herd there was a great dun bull, whichalways kept himself so neat and sleek, and often and often he came up tothe princess, and let her pat him. So one day when she sat there, sad, andsobbing, and sorrowful, he came up to her and asked her outright why shewas always in such grief. She answered nothing, but went on weeping."Ah!" said the bull, "I know all about it quite well, though you won'ttell me. you weep because the queen is bad to you, and because she isready to starve you to death. But food you've no need to fret about, forin my left ear lies a cloth, and when you take and spread it out, you mayhave as many dishes as you please."So she did that, took the cloth and spread it out on the grass, and lo!it served up the nicest dishes one could wish to have. there was wine too,and mead, and sweet cake. Well, she soon got up her flesh again, and grewso plump, and rosy, and white, that the queen and her scrawny chip of adaughter turned blue and yellow for spite. The queen couldn't at all makeout how her stepdaughter got to look so well on such bad fare, so she toldone of her maids to go after her in the wood, and watch and see how it allwas, for she thought some of the servants in the house must give her food.So the maid went after her, and watched in the wood, and then she saw howthe stepdaughter took the cloth out of the bull's ear, and spread it out,and how it served up the nicest dishes, which the stepdaughter ate andmade good cheer over. All this the maid told the queen when she went home.And now the king came home from war, and had won the fight against theother king with whom he went out to battle. So there was great joythroughout the palace, and no one was gladder than the king's daughter.But the queen shammed sick, and took to her bed, and paid the doctor agreat fee to get him to say she could never be well again unless she hadsome of the dun bull's flesh to eat. Both the king's daughter and the folkin the palace asked the doctor if nothing else would help her, and prayedhard for the bull, for everyone was fond of him, and they all said therewasn't that bull's match in all the land. But no. he must and should beslaughtered, nothing else would do. When the king's daughter heard that,she got very sorrowful, and went down into the byre to the bull. There,too, he stood and hung down his head, and looked so downcast that shebegan to weep over him."What are you weeping for?" asked the bull.So she told him how the king had come home again, and how the queen hadshammed sick and got the doctor to say she could never be well and soundagain unless she got some of the dun bull's flesh to eat, and so now hewas to be slaughtered."If they get me killed first," said the bull, "they'll soon take yourlife too. Now, if you're of my mind, we'll just start off, and go awaytonight."''Well, the princess thought it bad, you may be sure, to go and leaveher father, but she thought it still worse to be in the house with thequeen. and so she gave her word to the bull to come to him.At night, when all had gone to bed, the princess stole down to the byreto the bull, and so he took her on his back, and set off from thehomestead as fast as ever he could. And when the folk got up at cockcrownext morning to slaughter the bull, why, he was gone. and when the kinggot up and asked for his daughter, she was gone too. He sent outmessengers on all sides to hunt for them, and gave them out in all theparish churches. but there was no one who had caught a glimpse of them.Meanwhile, the bull went through many lands with the king's daughter onhis back, and so one day they came to a great copper wood, where both thetrees, and branches, and leaves, and flowers, and everything, were nothingbut copper.But before they went into the wood, the bull said to the king'sdaughter, "Now, when we get into this wood, mind you take care not totouch even a leaf of it, else it's all over both with me and you, for heredwells a troll with three heads who owns this wood."No, bless her, she'd be sure to take care not to touch anything. Well,she was very careful, and leant this way and that to miss the boughs, andput them gently aside with her hands. but it was such a thick wood, 'twasscarce possible to get through. and so, with all her pains, somehow orother she tore off a leaf, which she held in her hand."AU! AU! what have you done now?" said the bull. "there's nothing forit now but to fight for life or death. but mind you keep the leaf safe."Soon after they got to the end of the wood, and a troll with threeheads came running up. "Who is this that touches my wood?" said the troll."It's just as much mine as yours," said the bull."Ah!" roared the troll, "we'll try a fall about that.""As you choose," said the bullSo they rushed at one another, and fought. and the bull he butted, andgored, and kicked with all his might and main. but the troll gave him asgood as he brought, and it lasted the whole day before the bull got themastery. and then he was so full of wounds, and so worn out, he couldscarce lift a leg. Then they were forced to stay there a day to rest, andthen the bull bade the king's daughter to take the horn of ointment whichhung at the troll's belt, and rub him with it. Then he came to himselfagain, and the day after they trudged on again. So they traveled many,many days, until, after a long, long time, they came to a silver wood,where both the trees, and branches, and leaves, and flowers, andeverything, were silvern.Before the bull went into the wood, he said to the king's daughter,"Now, when we get into this wood, for heaven's sake mind you take goodcare. you mustn't touch anything, and not pluck off so much as one leaf,else it is all over both with me and you. for here is a troll with sixheads who owns it, and him I don't think I should be able to master.""No," said the king's daughter. "I'll take good care and not touchanything you don't wish me to touch."But when they got into the wood, it was so close and thick, they couldscarce get along. She was as careful as careful could be, and leant tothis side and that to miss the boughs, and put them on one side with herhands, but every minute the branches struck her across the eyes, and, inspite of all her pains, it so happened she tore off a leaf."AU! AU! what have you done now?" said the bull. "There's nothing forit now but to fight for life and death, for this troll has six heads, andis twice as strong as the other, but mind you keep the leaf safe, anddon't lose it."Just as he said that, up came the troll. "Who is this," he said, "thattouches my wood?""It's as much mine as yours," said the bull."That we'll try a fall about," roared the troll"As you choose," said the bull, and rushed at the troll, and gored outhis eyes, and drove his horns right through his body, so that the entrailsgushed out. but the troll was almost a match for him, and it lasted threewhole days before the bull got the life gored out of him. But then he,too, was so weak and wretched, it was as much as he could do to stir alimb, and so full of wounds, that the blood streamed from him. So he saidto the king's daughter she must take the horn of ointment that hung at thetroll's belt, and rub him with it. Then she did that, and he came tohimself. but they were forced to stay there a week to rest before the bullhad strength enough to go on.At last they set off again, but the bull was still poorly, and theywent rather slow at first. So to spare time the king's daughter said asshe was young and light of foot, she could very well walk, but shecouldn't get leave to do that. No. she must seat herself up on his backagain. So on they traveled through many lands a long time, and the king'sdaughter did not know in the least whither they went. but after a long,long time they came to a gold wood. It was so grand, the gold dropped fromevery twig, and all the trees, and boughs, and flowers, and leaves, wereof pure gold. Here, too, the same thing happened as had happened in thesilver wood and copper wood. The bull told the king's daughter she mustn'ttouch it for anything, for there was a troll with nine heads who owned it,and he was much bigger and stouter than both the others put together, andhe didn't think he could get the better of him. No. she'd be sure to takeheed not to touch it. that he might know very well. But when they got intothe wood, it was far thicker and closer than the silver wood, and thedeeper they went into it the worse it got. The wood went on gettingthicker and thicker, and closer and closer. and at last she thought therewas no way at all to get through it. She was in such an awful fright ofplucking off anything, that she sat, and twisted and turned herself thisway and that, and hither and thither, to keep clear of the boughs, and sheput them on one side with her hands. but every moment the branches struckher across the eyes, so that she couldn't see what she was clutching at.and lo! before she knew how it came about, she had a gold apple in herhand. Then she was so bitterly sorry she burst into tears and wanted tothrow it away. but the bull said she must keep it safe and watch it well,and comforted her as well as he could. but he thought it would be a hardtussle, and he doubted how it would go.Just then up came the troll with the nine heads, and he was so ugly,the king's daughter scarcely dared to look at him. "Who is this thattouches my wood?" he roared."It's just as much mine as yours," said the bull."That we'll try a fall about," roared the troll again."Just as you choose," said the bull. and so they rushed at one another,and fought, and it was such a dreadful sight the king's daughter was readyto swoon away. The bull gored out the troll's eyes, and drove his hornsthrough and through his body, till the entrails came tumbling out. but thetroll fought bravely. and when the bull got one head gored to death, therest breathed life into it again, and so it lasted a whole week before thebull was able to get the life out of them all. But then he was utterlyworn out and wretched. He couldn't stir a foot, and his body was all onewound. He couldn't so much as ask the king's daughter to take the horn ofointment which hung at the troll's belt, and rub it over him. But she didit all the same, and then he came to himself by little and little. butthey had to lie there and rest three weeks before he was fit to go onagain.Then they set off at a snail's pace, for the bull said they had still alittle farther to go, and so they crossed over many high hills and thickwoods. So after a while they got upon the fells."Do you see anything?" asked the bull."No, I see nothing but the sky and the wild fell," said the king'sdaughter.So when they climbed higher up, the fell got smoother, and they couldsee farther off."Do you see anything now?" asked the bull."Yes, I see a little castle far, far away," said the princess."That's not so little though," said the bull.After a long, long time, they came to a great cairn, where there was aspur of the fell that stood sheer across the way."Do you see anything now?" asked the bull."Yes, now I see the castle close by," said the king's daughter, "andnow it is much, much bigger.""Thither you're to go," said the bull. "Right underneath the castle isa pigsty, where you are to dwell. When you come thither you'll find awooden cloak, all made of strips of lath. that you must put on, and go upto the castle and say your name is Katie Woodencloak, and ask for a place.But before you go, you must take your penknife and cut my head off, andthen you must flay me, and roll up the hide, and lay it under the wall ofrock yonder, and under the hide you must lay the copper leaf, and thesilvern leaf, and the golden apple. Yonder, up against the rock, stands astick. and when you want anything, you've only got to knock on the wall ofrock with that stick."At first she wouldn't do anything of the kind. but when the bull saidit was the only thanks he would have for what he had done for her, shecouldn't help herself. So, however much it grieved her heart, she hackedand cut away with her knife at the big beast till she got both his headand his hide off, and then she laid the hide up under the wall of rock,and put the copper leaf, and the silvern leaf, and the golden apple insideit.So when she had done that, she went over to the pigsty, but all thewhile she went she sobbed and wept. There she put on the wooden cloak, andso went up to the palace. When she came into the kitchen she begged for aplace, and told them her name was Katie Woodencloak. Yes, the cook saidshe might have a place   she might have leave to be there in thescullery, and wash up, for the lassie who did that work before had justgone away."But as soon as you get weary of being here, you'll go your way too,I'll be bound."No. she was sure she wouldn't do that.So there she was, behaving so well, and washing up so handily. TheSunday after there were to be strange guests at the palace, so Katie askedif she might have leave to carry up water for the prince's bath. but allthe rest laughed at her, and said, "What should you do there? Do you thinkthe prince will care to look at you, you who are such a fright?"But she wouldn't give it up, and kept on begging and praying. and atlast she got leave. So when she went up the stairs, her wooden cloak madesuch a clatter, the prince came out and asked, "Pray, who are you?""Oh, I was just going to bring up water for your Royal Highness'sbath," said Katie."Do you think now," said the prince, "I'd have anything to do with thewater you bring?" and with that he threw the water over her.So she had to put up with that, but then she asked leave to go tochurch. well, she got that leave too, for the church lay close by. Butfirst of all she went to the rock, and knocked on its face with the stickwhich stood there, just as the bull had said. And straightway out came aman, who said, "What's your will?"So the princess said she had got leave to go to church and hear thepriest preach, but she had no clothes to go in. So he brought out akirtle, which was as bright as the copper wood, and she got a horse andsaddle beside. Now, when she got to the church, she was so lovely andgrand, all wondered who she could be, and scarce one of them listened towhat the priest said, for they looked too much at her. As for the prince,he fell so deep in love with her, he didn't take his eyes off her for asingle moment.So, as she went out of church, the prince ran after her, and held thechurch door open for her. and so he got hold of one of her gloves, whichwas caught in the door. When she went away and mounted her horse, theprince went up to her again, and asked whence she came."Oh, I'm from Bath," said Katie. and while the prince took out theglove to give it to her, she said:Bright before and dark behind,Clouds come rolling on the wind.That this prince may never seeWhere my good steed goes with me.The prince had never seen the like of that glove, and went about farand wide asking after the land whence the proud lady, who rode off withouther glove, said she came. but there was no one who could tell where "Bath"lay.Next Sunday some one had to go up to the prince with a towel."Oh, may I have leave to go up with it?" said Katie."What's the good of your going?" said the others. "you saw how it faredwith you last time."But Katie wouldn't give in. she kept on begging and praying, till shegot leave. and then she ran up the stairs, so that her wooden cloak made agreat clatter. Out came the prince, and when he saw it was Katie, he torethe towel out of her hand, and threw it into her face."Pack yourself off, you ugly troll," he cried. "do you think I'd have atowel which you have touched with your smutty fingers?"After that the prince set off to church, and Katie begged for leave togo too. They all asked what business she had at church   she who hadnothing to put on but that wooden cloak, which was so black and ugly. ButKatie said the priest was such a brave man to preach, what he said did herso much good. and so at last she got leave. Now she went again to the rockand knocked, and so out came the man, and gave her a kirtle far finer thanthe first one. it was all covered with silver, and it shone like thesilver wood. and she got besides a noble steed, with a saddleclothbroidered with silver, and a silver bit.So when the king's daughter got to the church, the folk were stillstanding about in the churchyard. And all wondered and wondered who shecould be, and the prince was soon on the spot, and came and wished to holdher horse for her while she got off. But she jumped down, and said therewas no need, for her horse was so well broke, it stood still when she badeit, and came when she called it.So they all went into church, but there was scarce a soul that listenedto what the priest said, for they looked at her a deal too much. and theprince fell still deeper in love than the first time.When the sermon was over, and she went out of church. and was going tomount her horse, up came the prince again and asked her whence she came."Oh, I'm from Towelland," said the king's daughter. and as she saidthat, she dropped her riding whip, and when the prince stooped to pick itup, she said:Bright before and dark behind,Clouds come rolling on the wind.That this prince may never seeWhere my good steed goes with me.So away she was again. and the prince couldn't tell what had become ofher. He went about far and wide, asking after the land whence she said shecame, but there was no one who could tell him where it lay. and so theprince had to make the best he could of it.Next Sunday someone had to go up to the prince with a comb. Katiebegged for leave to go up with it, but the others put her in mind how shehad fared the last time, and scolded her for wishing to go before theprince   such a black and ugly fright as she was in her wooden cloak. Butshe wouldn't leave off asking till they let her go up to the prince withhis comb. So, when she came clattering up the stairs again, out came theprince, and took the comb, and threw it at her, and bade her be off asfast as she could. After that the prince went to church, and Katie beggedfor leave to go too. They asked again what business she had there, she whowas so foul and black, and who had no clothes to show herself in. Might bethe prince or some one else would see her, and then both she and all theothers would smart for it. but Katie said they had something else to dothan to look at her. and she wouldn't leave off begging and praying tillthey gave her leave to go.So the same thing happened now as had happened twice before. She wentto the rock and knocked with the stick, and then the man came out and gaveher a kirtle which was far grander than either of the others. It wasalmost all pure gold, and studded with diamonds. and she got besides anoble steed, with a gold broidered saddlecloth and a golden bit.Now when the king's daughter got to the church, there stood the priestand all the people in the churchyard waiting for her. Up came the princerunning, and wanted to hold her horse, but she jumped off, and said, "No.thanks   there's no need, for my horse is so well broke, it stands stillwhen I bid him."So they all hastened into church, and the priest got into the pulpit,but no one listened to a word he said. for they all looked too much ather, and wondered whence she came. and the prince, he was far deeper inlove than either of the former times. He had no eyes, or ears, or sensefor anything, but just to sit and stare at her.So when the sermon was over, and the king's daughter was to go out ofthe church, the prince had got a firkin of pitch poured out in the porch,that he might come and help her over it. but she didn't care a bit   shejust put her foot right down into the midst of the pitch, and jumpedacross it. but then one of her golden shoes stuck fast in it, and as shegot on her horse, up came the prince running out of the church, and askedwhence she came."I'm from Combland," said Katie. But when the prince wanted to reachher the gold shoe, she said:Bright before and dark behind,Clouds come rolling on the wind.That this prince may never seeWhere my good steed goes with me.So the prince couldn't tell still what had become of her, and he wentabout a weary time all over the world asking for "Combland," but when noone could tell him where it lay, he ordered it to be given out everywherethat he would wed the woman whose foot could fit the gold shoe.So many came of all sorts from all sides, fair and ugly alike. butthere was no one who had so small a foot as to be able to get on the goldshoe. And after a long, long time, who should come but Katie's wickedstepmother, and her daughter, too, and her the gold shoe fitted. but uglyshe was, and so loathly she looked, the prince only kept his word soreagainst his will. Still they got ready the wedding feast, and she wasdressed up and decked out as a bride. but as they rode to church, a littlebird sat upon a tree and sang:A bit off her heel,And a bit off her toe.Katie Woodencloak's tiny shoeIs full of blood   that's all I know.And, sure enough, when they looked to it, the bird told the truth, forblood gushed out of the shoe.Then all the maids and women who were about the palace had to go up totry on the shoe, but there was none of them whom it would fit at all."But where's Katie Woodencloak?" asked the prince, when all the resthad tried the shoe, for he understood the song of birds very well, andbore in mind what the little bird had said."Oh, she! think of that!" said the rest. it's no good her comingforward. "Why, she's legs like a horse.""Very true, I daresay," said the prince. "but since all the others havetried, Katie may as well try too.""Katie!" he bawled out through the door. and Katie came tramplingupstairs, and her wooden cloak clattered as if a whole regiment ofdragoons were charging up."Now, you must try the shoe on, and be a princess, you too," said theother maids, and laughed and made game of her.So Katie took up the shoe, and put her foot into it like nothing, andthrew off her wooden cloak. and so there she stood in her gold kirtle, andit shone so that the sunbeams glistened from her. and, lo! on her otherfoot she had the fellow to the gold shoe.So when the prince knew her again, he grew so glad, he ran up to herand threw his arms round her, and gave her a kiss. and when he heard shewas a king's daughter, he got gladder still, and then came thewedding feast. and soSnip, snip, snover,This story's over.