(_A Legend of Glendalough._)There was wanst a king, called King O'Toole, who was a fine ould king inthe ould ancient times, long ago. and it was him that owned the Churchesin the airly days."Surely," said I, "the Churches were not in King O'Toole's time?""Oh, by no manes, your honor throth, it's yourself that's right enoughthere. but you know the place is called 'The Churches' bekase they worbuilt _afther_ by St. Kavin, and wint by the name o' the Churches ivermore. and, therefore, av coorse, the place bein' so called, I say thatthe King owned the Churches and why not, sir, seein' 'twas hisbirthright, time out o' mind, beyant the flood? Well, the King (you see)was the right sort he was the _rale_ boy, and loved sport as he lovedhis life, and huntin' in partic'lar. and from the risin' o' the sun uphe got, and away he wint over the mountains beyant afther the deer: andthe fine times them wor. for the deer was as plinty thin, aye throth,far plintyer than the sheep is now. and that's the way it was with theKing, from the crow o' the cock to the song o' the redbreast. Well, itwas all mighty good as long as the King had his health. but, you see, incoorse o' time, the King grewn ould, by raison he was stiff in hislimbs, and when he got sthricken in years, his heart failed him, and hewas lost intirely for want o' divarshin, bekase he couldn't go a huntin'no longer. and, by dad, the poor King was obleeged at last for to get agoose to divart him. You see, the goose used for to swim acrass thelake, and go down divin' for throut (and not finer throut in all Irelandthan the same throut) and cotch fish on a Friday for the King, and flewevery other day round about the lake divartin' the poor King that you'dthink he'd break his sides laughin' at the frolicksome tricks av hisgoose. so, in coorse o' time, the goose was the greatest pet in thecounthry, and the biggest rogue, and divarted the King to no end, andthe poor King was as happy as the day was long. So that's the way itwas. and all wint on mighty well antil, by dad, the goose got sthrickenin years, as well as the King, and grew stiff in the limbs, like hermasther, and couldn't divart him no longer. and then it was that thepoor King was lost complate, and didn't know what in the wide world todo, seein' he was gone out of all divarshin by raison that the goose wasno more in the flower of her blume."Well, the King was nigh broken hearted and melancholy intirely, and waswalkin' one mornin' by the edge of the lake, lamentin' his cruel fate,an' thinkin' o' drownin' himself, that could get no divarshin in life,when all of a suddint, turnin' round the corner beyant, who should hemeet but a mighty dacent young man comin' up to him."'God save you,' says the King (for the King was a civil spokengintleman, by all accounts), 'God save you,' says he to the young man."'God save you kindly,' says the young man to him back again. 'God saveyou, King O'Toole.'"'Thrue for you,' says the King, 'I am King O'Toole,' says he, 'princeand plennypennytinchery o' these parts,' says he. 'but how kem ye toknow that?' says he."'Oh, never mind,' says Saint Kavin (for 'twas he that was in it). 'Andnow, may I make bowld to ax, how is your goose, King O'Toole?' says he."'Blur an agers, how kem you to know about my goose?' says the King."'Oh, no matther. I was given to understand it,' says Saint Kavin."'Oh, that's a folly to talk,' says the King, 'bekase myself and mygoose is private friends,' says he, 'and no one could tell you,' sayshe, 'barrin' the fairies.'"'Oh, thin, it wasn't the fairies,' says Saint Kavin. 'for I'd have youknow,' says he, 'that I don't keep the likes o' sich company.'"'You might do worse, then, my gay fellow,' says the King. 'for it's_they_ could show you a crock o' money as aisy as kiss hand. and that'snot to be sneezed at,' says the King, 'by a poor man,' says he."'Maybe I've a betther way of making money myself,' says the saint."'By gor,' says the King, 'barrin' you're a coiner,' says he, 'that'simpossible!'"'I'd scorn to be the like, my lord!' says Saint Kavin, mighty high,'I'd scorn to be the like,' says he."'Then, what are you?' says the King, 'that makes money so aisy, by yourown account.'"'I'm an honest man,' says Saint Kavin."'Well, honest man,' says the King, 'and how is it you make your moneyso aisy?'"'By makin' ould things as good as new,' says Saint Kavin."'Is it a tinker you are?' says the King."'No,' says the saint. 'I'm no tinker by thrade, King O'Toole. I've abetther thrade than a tinker,' says he. 'What would you say,' says he,'if I made your ould goose as good as new?'"My dear, at the word o' making his goose as good as new, you'd thinkthe poor ould King's eyes was ready to jump out iv his head, 'and,' sayshe 'throth, thin, I'd give you more money nor you could count,' sayshe, 'if you did the like, and I'd be behoulden to you in the bargain.'"'I scorn your dirty money,' says Saint Kavin."'Faith, thin, I'm thinkin' a thrifle o' change would do you no harm,'says the King, lookin' up sly at the ould _caubeen_ that Saint Kavin hadon him."'I have a vow agin it,' says the saint. 'and I am book sworn,' says he,'never to have goold, silver, or brass in my company.'"'Barrin' the thrifle you can't help,' says the King, mighty cute, andlooking him straight in the face."'You just hot it,' says Saint Kavin. 'but though I can't take money,'says he, 'I could take a few acres o' land, if you'd give them to me.'"'With all the veins o' my heart,' says the King, 'if you can do whatyou say.'"'Thry me!' says Saint Kavin. 'Call down your goose here,' says he, 'andI'll see what I can do for her.'"With that the King whistled, and down kem the poor goose, all as one asa hound, waddlin' up to the poor ould cripple, her masther, and as likehim as two pays. The minute the saint clapt his eyes on the goose, 'I'lldo the job for you,' says he, 'King O'Toole!'"'By _Jaminee_,' says King O'Toole, 'if you do, but I'll say you're thecleverest fellow in the sivin parishes.'"'Oh, by dad,' says Saint Kavin, 'you must say more nor that my horn'snot so soft all out,' says he, 'as to repair your ould goose fornothin'. what'll you gi' me if I do the job for you? that's the chat,'says Saint Kavin."'I'll give you whatever you ax,' says the King. 'isn't that fair?'"'Divil a fairer,' says the saint. 'that's the way to do business. Now,'says he, 'this is the bargain I'll make with you, King O'Toole: will yougi' me all the ground the goose flies over, the first offer, afther Imake her as good as new?'"'I will,' says the King."'You won't go back o' your word?' says Saint Kavin."'Honor bright!' says King O'Toole, howldin' out his fist."'Honor bright,' says Saint Kavin back again, 'it's a bargain,' says he.'Come here!' says he to the poor ould goose 'come here, youunfort'nate ould cripple,' says he, 'and it's I that'll make you thesportin' bird.'"With that, my dear, he tuk up the goose by the two wings 'criss o' mycrass an you,' says he, markin' her to grace with the blessed sign atthe same minute and throwin' her up in the air, 'whew!' says he, jistgivin' her a blast to help her. and with that, my jewel, she tuk to herheels, flyin' like one o' the aigles themselves, and cuttin' as manycapers as a swallow before a shower of rain. Away she wint down there,right forninst you, along the side o' the clift, and flew over SaintKavin's bed (that is, where Saint Kavin's bed is _now_, but was not_thin_, by raison it wasn't made, but was conthrived afther by SaintKavin himself, that the women might lave him alone), and on with herundher Lugduff, and round the ind av the lake there, far beyant whereyou see the watherfall and on with her thin right over the lead mineso' Luganure (that is, where the lead mines is _now_, but was not _thin_,by raison they worn't discovered, _but was all goold in Saint Kavin'stime_). Well, over the ind o' Luganure she flew, stout and studdy, andround the other ind av the _little_ lake, by the Churches (that is, _avcoorse_, where the Churches is _now_, but was not _thin_, by raison theywor not built, but aftherwards by Saint Kavin), and over the big hillhere over your head, where you see the big clift (and that clift in themountain was made by _Finn Ma Cool_, where he cut it acrass with a bigswoord that he got made a purpose by a blacksmith out o' Rathdrum, acousin av his own, for to fight a joyant (giant) that darr'd him an' theCurragh o' Kildare. and he thried the swoord first an the mountain, andcut it down into a gap, as is plain to this day. and faith, sure enough,it's the same sauce he sarv'd the joyant, soon and suddint, and choppedhim in two like a pratie, for the glory of his sowl and ouldIreland) well, down she flew over the clift, and fluttherin' over thewood there at Poulanass. Well as I said afther fluttherin' over thewood a little bit, to _plaze_ herself, the goose flew down, and bit atthe fut o' the King, as fresh as a daisy, afther flyin' roun' hisdominions, jist as if she hadn't flew three perch."Well, my dear, it was a beautiful sight to see the King standin' withhis mouth open, lookin' at his poor ould goose flyin' as light as alark, and betther nor ever she was. and when she lit at his fut hepatted her an the head, and '_ma vourneen_,' says he, 'but you are the_darlint_ o' the world.'"'And what do you say to me,' says Saint Kavin, 'for makin' her thelike?'"'By gor,' says the King, 'I say nothin' bates the art o' men, 'barrin'the bees.'"'And do you say no more nor that?' says Saint Kavin."'And that I'm behoulden to you,' says the King."'But will you gi' me all the ground the goose flewn over?' says SaintKavin."'I will,' says King O'Toole, 'and you're welkim to it,' says he,'though it's the last acre I have to give.'"'But you'll keep your word thrue?' says the saint."'As thrue as the sun,' says the King."'It's well for you,' says Saint Kavin, mighty sharp 'it's well foryou, King O'Toole, that you said that word,' says he. 'for if you didn'tsay that word, _the divil receave the bit o' your goose id iver flyagin_,' says Saint Kavin."'Oh, you needn't laugh,' said old Joe, 'for it's thruth I'm tellingyou.'"Well, whin the King was as good as his word, Saint Kavin was _plazed_with him, and thin it was that he made himself known to the King."Well, my dear, that's the way that the place kem, all at wanst, intothe hands of Saint Kavin. for the goose flew round every individyialacre o' King O'Toole's property, you see, _bein' let into the saycret_by Saint Kavin, who was mighty _cute_. and so, when he _done_ the ouldKing out iv his property for the glory of God, he was _plazed_ with him,and he and the King was the best o' friends iver more afther (for thepoor ould King was _doatin'_, you see), and the King had his goose asgood as new to divart him as long as he lived. and the saint supportedhim afther he kem into his property, as I tould you, until the day ivhis death and that was soon afther. for the poor goose thought he wasketchin' a throut one Friday. but, my jewel, it was a mistake hemade and instead of a throut, it was a thievin' horse eel! and, by gor,instead iv the goose killin' a throut for the King's supper by dad, theeel killed the King's goose and small blame to him. but he didn't ateher, bekase he darn't ate what Saint Kavin laid his blessed hands on."SAMUEL LOVER.