It is said (but Allah is All knowing!) that there was aKing of the Kings of Fars, who was fond of pleasuring anddiversion, especially coursing end hunting. He had reared afalcon which he carried all night on his fist, and whenever hewent a chasing he took with him this bird. and he bade make forher a golden cuplet hung around her neck to give her drinktherefrom. One day as the King was sitting quietly in his palace,behold, the high falcaner of the household suddenly addressedhim, "O King of the age, this is indeed a day fit for birding."The King gave orders accordingly and set out taking the hawk onfist. and they fared merrily forwards till they made aWady where they planted a circle of nets for the chase.when lo! a gazelle came within the toils and the King cried,"Whoso alloweth yon gazelle to spring over his head and losethher, that man will I surely slay." They narrowed the nets aboutthe gazelle when she drew near the King's station. and, plantingherself on her hind quarter, crossed her forehand over herbreast, as if about to kiss the earth before the King. He bowedhis brow low in acknowledgment to the beast. when she boundedhigh over his head and took the way of the waste. Thereupon theKing turned towards his troops and seeing them winking andpointing at him, he asked, "O Wazir, what are my men saying?" andthe Minister answered, "They say thou didst proclaim that whosoalloweth the gazelle to spring over his head, that man shall beput to death." Quoth the King, "Now, by the life of my head! Iwill follow her up till I bring her back." So he set offgallopping on the gazelle's trail and gave not over tracking tillhe reached the foot hills of a mountain chain where the quarrymade for a cave. Then the King cast off at it the falcon whichpresently caught it up and, swooping down, drove her talons intoits eyes, bewildering and blinding it. and the King drewhis mace and struck a blow which rolled the game over. He thendismounted. and, after cutting the antelope's throat and flayingthe body, hung it to the pommel of his saddle. Now the time wasthat of the siesta and the wold was parched and dry, norwas any water to be found anywhere. and the King thirsted and hishorse also. so he went about searching till he saw a treedropping water, as it were melted butter, from its boughs.Thereupon the King who wore gauntlets of skin to guard himagainst poisons took the cup from the hawk's neck, and filling itwith the water set it before the bird, and lo! the falcon struckit with her pounces and upset the liquid. The King filled it asecond time with the dripping drops, thinking his hawk wasthirsty. but the bird again struck at the cup with her talons andoverturned it. Then the King waxed wroth with the hawk andfilling the cup a third time offered it to his horse: but thehawk upset it with a flirt of wings. Quoth the King, "Allahconfound thee, thou unluckiest of flying things! thou keepest mefrom drinking, and thou deprivest thyself also, and the horse."So he struck the falcon with his sword and cut off her wing. butthe bird raised her head and said by signs, "Look at that whichhangeth on the tree!" The King lifted up his eyes accordingly andcaught sight of a brood of vipers, whose poison drops he mistookfor water. thereupon he repented him of having struck off hisfalcon's wing, and mounting horse, fared on with the deadgazelle, till he arrived at the camp, his starting place. Hethrew the quarry to the cook saying, Take and broil it," and satdown on his chair, the falcon being still on his fist whensuddenly the bird gasped and died. whereupon the King cried outin sorrow and remorse for having slain that falcon which hadsaved his life. Now this is what occurred in the case of KingSindibad. and I am assured that were I to do as thou desirest Ishould repent even as the man who killed his parrot." Quoth theWazir, "And how was that?" And the King began to tell