Och, I thought all the world, far and near, had heerd o' KingO'Toole well, well, but the darkness of mankind is untellible! Well,sir, you must know, as you didn't hear it afore, that there was a king,called King O'Toole, who was a fine old king in the old ancient times,long ago. and it was he that owned the churches in the early days. Theking, you see, was the right sort. he was the real boy, and loved sportas he loved his life, and hunting in particular. and from the rising o'the sun, up he got, and away he went over the mountains after the deer.and fine times they were.Well, it was all mighty good, as long as the king had his health. but,you see, in course of time the king grew old, by raison he was stiff inhis limbs, and when he got stricken in years, his heart failed him, andhe was lost entirely for want o' diversion, because he couldn't goa hunting no longer. and, by dad, the poor king was obliged at last toget a goose to divert him. Oh, you may laugh, if you like, but it'struth I'm telling you. and the way the goose diverted him wasthis a way: You see, the goose used to swim across the lake, and godiving for trout, and catch fish on a Friday for the king, and flewevery other day round about the lake, diverting the poor king. All wenton mighty well until, by dad, the goose got stricken in years like hermaster, and couldn't divert him no longer, and then it was that thepoor king was lost entirely. The king was walkin' one mornin' by theedge of the lake, lamentin' his cruel fate, and thinking of drowninghimself, that could get no diversion in life, when all of a sudden,turning round the corner, who should he meet but a mighty decent youngman coming up to him."God save you," says the king to the young man."God save you kindly, King O'Toole," says the young man."True for you," says the king. "I am King O'Toole," says he, "princeand plennypennytinchery of these parts," says he. "but how came ye toknow that?" says he."Oh, never mind," says St. Kavin.You see it was Saint Kavin, sure enough the saint himself in disguise,and nobody else. "Oh, never mind," says he, "I know more than that. MayI make bold to ask how is your goose, King O'Toole?" says he."Blur an agers, how came ye to know about my goose?" says the king."Oh, no matter. I was given to understand it," says Saint Kavin.After some more talk the king says, "What are you?""I'm an honest man," says Saint Kavin."Well, honest man," says the king, "and how is it you make your moneyso aisy?""By makin' old things as good as new," says Saint Kavin."Is it a tinker you are?" says the king."No," says the saint. "I'm no tinker by trade, King O'Toole. I've abetter trade than a tinker," says he "what would you say," says he,"if I made your old goose as good as new?"My dear, at the word of making his goose as good as new, you'd thinkthe poor old king's eyes were ready to jump out of his head. With thatthe king whistled, and down came the poor goose, just like a hound,waddling up to the poor cripple, her master, and as like him as twopeas. The minute the saint clapt his eyes on the goose, "I'll do thejob for you," says he, "King O'Toole.""By _Jaminee_!" says King O'Toole, "if you do, I'll say you're thecleverest fellow in the seven parishes.""Oh, by dad," says St. Kavin, "you must say more nor that my horn'snot so soft all out," says he, "as to repair your old goose fornothing. what'll you gi' me if I do the job for you? that's the chat,"says St. Kavin."I'll give you whatever you ask," says the king. "isn't that fair?""Divil a fairer," says the saint. "that's the way to do business. Now,"says he, "this is the bargain I'll make with you, King O'Toole: willyou gi' me all the ground the goose flies over, the first offer, afterI make her as good as new?""I will," says the king."You won't go back o' your word?" says St. Kavin."Honour bright!" says King O'Toole, holding out his fist."Honour bright!" says St. Kavin, back agin, "it's a bargain. Comehere!" says he to the poor old goose "come here, you unfortunate ouldcripple, and it's I that'll make you the sporting bird." With that, mydear, he took up the goose by the two wings "Criss o' my cross anyou," says he, markin' her to grace with the blessed sign at the sameminute and throwing her up in the air, "whew," says he, jist givin'her a blast to help her. and with that, my jewel, she took to herheels, flyin' like one o' the eagles themselves, and cutting as manycapers as a swallow before a shower of rain.Well, my dear, it was a beautiful sight to see the king standing withhis mouth open, looking at his poor old goose flying as light as alark, and better than ever she was: and when she lit at his feet,patted her on the head, and "_Ma vourneen_," says he, "but you are the_darlint_ o' the world.""And what do you say to me," says 'Saint Kavin, "for making her thelike?""By Jabers," says the king, "I say nothing beats the art o' man,barring the bees.""And do you say no more nor that?" says Saint Kavin."And that I'm beholden to you," says the king."But will you gi'e me all the ground the goose flew over?" says SaintKavin."I will," says King O'Toole, "and you're welcome to it," says he,"though it's the last acre I have to give.""But you'll keep your word true?" says the saint."As true as the sun," says the king."It's well for you, King O'Toole, that you said that word," says he."for if you didn't say that word, the devil the bit o' your goose wouldever fly agin."When the king was as good as his word, Saint Kavin was pleased withhim, and then it was that he made himself known to the king. "And,"says he, "King O'Toole, you're a decent man, for I only came here totry you. You don't know me," says he, "because I'm disguised.""Musha! then," says the king, "who are you?""I'm Saint Kavin," said the saint, blessing himself."Oh, queen of heaven!" says the king, making the sign of the crossbetween his eyes, and falling down on his knees before the saint. "isit the great Saint Kavin," says he, "that I've been discoursing allthis time without knowing it," says he, "all as one as if he was a lumpof a _gossoon_? and so you're a saint?" says the king."I am," says Saint Kavin."By Jabers, I thought I was only talking to a dacent boy," says theking."Well, you know the difference now," says the saint. "I'm Saint Kavin,"says he, "the greatest of all the saints."And so the king had his goose as good as new, to divert him as long ashe lived: and the saint supported him after he came into his property,as I told you, until the day of his death and that was soon after. forthe poor goose thought he was catching a trout one Friday. but, myjewel, it was a mistake he made and instead of a trout, it was athieving horse eel. and instead of the goose killing a trout for theking's supper by dad, the eel killed the king's goose and small blameto him. but he didn't ate her, because he darn't ate what Saint Kavinhad laid his blessed hands on.