From the Swedish.There once lived a king and a queen who ruled over a very great kingdom.They had large revenues, and lived happily with each other. but, as theyears went past, the king's heart became heavy, because the queen had nochildren. She also sorrowed greatly over it, because, although the kingsaid nothing to her about this trouble, yet she could see that it vexedhim that they had no heir to the kingdom. and she wished every day thatshe might have one.One day a poor old woman came to the castle and asked to speak with thequeen. The royal servants answered that they could not let such a poorbeggar woman go in to their royal mistress. They offered her a penny,and told her to go away. Then the woman desired them to tell the queenthat there stood at the palace gate one who would help her secretsorrow. This message was taken to the queen, who gave orders to bringthe old woman to her. This was done, and the old woman said to her:'I know your secret sorrow, O queen, and am come to help you in it. Youwish to have a son. you shall have two if you follow my instructions.'The queen was greatly surprised that the old woman knew her secret wishso well, and promised to follow her advice.'You must have a bath set in your room, O queen,' said she, 'and filledwith running water. When you have bathed in this you will find. underthe bath two red onions. These you must carefully peel and eat, and intime your wish will be fulfilled.'The queen did as the poor woman told her. and after she had bathed shefound the two onions under the bath. They were both alike in sizeand appearance. When she saw these she knew that the woman had beensomething more than she seemed to be, and in her delight she ate up oneof the onions, skin and all. When she had done so she remembered thatthe woman had told her to peel them carefully before she ate them. Itwas now too late for the one of them, but she peeled the other and thenate it too.In due time it happened as the woman had said. but the first that thequeen gave birth to was a hideous lindorm, or serpent. No one saw thisbut her waiting woman, who threw it out of the window into the forestbeside the castle. The next that came into the world was the mostbeautiful little prince, and he was shown to the king and queen, whoknew nothing about his brother the lindorm.There was now joy in all the palace and over the whole country onaccount of the beautiful prince. but no one knew that the queen'sfirst born was a lindorm, and lay in the wild forest. Time passedwith the king, the queen, and the young prince in all happiness andprosperity, until he was twenty years of his age. Then his parents saidto him that he should journey to another kingdom and seek for himself abride, for they were beginning to grow old, and would fain see their sonmarried. before they were laid in their grave. The prince obeyed, hadhis horses harnessed to his gilded chariot, and set out to woo hisbride. But when he came to the first cross ways there lay a huge andterrible lindorm right across the road, so that his horses had to cometo a standstill.'Where are you driving to? ' asked the lindorm with a hideous voice.'That does not concern you,' said the prince. 'I am the prince, and candrive where I please.''Turn back,' said the lindorm. 'I know your errand, but you shall get nobride until I have got a mate and slept by her side.'The prince turned home again, and told the king and the queen what hehad met at the cross roads. but they thought that he should try again onthe following day, and see whether he could not get past it, so that hemight seek a bride in another kingdom.The prince did so, but got no further than the first cross roads. therelay the lindorm again, who stopped him in the same way as before.The same thing happened on the third day when the prince tried to getpast: the lindorm said, with a threatening voice, that before the princecould get a bride he himself must find a mate.When the king and queen heard this for the third time they could thinkof no better plan than to invite the lindorm to the palace, and theyshould find him a mate. They thought that a lindorm would be quite wellsatisfied with anyone that they might give him, and so they would getsome slave woman to marry the monster. The lindorm came to the palaceand received a bride of this kind, but in the morning she lay torn inpieces. So it happened every time that the king and queen compelled anywoman to be his bride.The report of this soon spread over all the country. Now it happenedthat there was a man who had married a second time, and his wife heardof the lindorm with great delight. Her husband had a daughter by hisfirst wife who was more beautiful than all other maidens, and so gentleand good that she won the heart of all who knew her. His second wife,however, had also a grown up daughter, who by herself would havebeen ugly and disagreeable enough, but beside her good and beautifulstepsister seemed still more ugly and wicked, so that all turned fromher with loathing.The stepmother had long been annoyed that her husband's daughter wasso much more beautiful than her own, and in her heart she conceived abitter hatred for her stepdaughter. When she now heard that there was inthe king's palace a lindorm which tore in pieces all the women that weremarried to him, and demanded a beautiful maiden for his bride, she wentto the king, and said that her stepdaughter wished to wed the lindorm,so that the country's only prince might travel and seek a bride. Atthis the king was greatly delighted, and gave orders that the young girlshould be brought to the palace.When the messengers came to fetch her she was terribly frightened, forshe knew that it was her wicked stepmother who in this way was aiming ather life. She begged that she might be allowed to spend another night inher father's house. This was granted her, and she went to her mother'sgrave. There she lamented her hard fate in being given over to thelindorm, and earnestly prayed her mother for counsel. How long she laythere by the grave and wept one cannot tell, but sure it is that shefell asleep and slept until the sun rose. Then she rose up from thegrave, quite happy at heart, and began to search about in the fields.There she found three nuts, which she carefully put away in her pocket.'When I come into very great danger I must break one of these,' she saidto herself. Then she went home, and set out quite willingly with theking's messengers.When these arrived at the palace with the beautiful young maideneveryone pitied her fate. but she herself was of good courage, and askedthe queen for another bridal chamber than the one the lindorm had hadbefore. She got this, and then she requested them to put a pot full ofstrong lye on the fire and lay down three new scrubbing brushes. Thequeen gave orders that everything should be done as she desired. andthen the maiden dressed herself in seven clean snow white shirts, andheld her wedding with the lindorm.When they were left alone in the bridal chamber the lindorm, in athreatening voice, ordered her to undress herself.'Undress yourself first!' said she.'None of the others bade me do that,' said he in surprise.'But I bid you,' said she.Then the lindorm began to writhe, and groan, and breathe heavily. andafter a little he had cast his outer skin, which lay on the floor,hideous to behold. Then his bride took off one of her snow white shirts,and cast it on the lindorm's skin. Again he ordered her to undress,and again she commanded him to do so first. He had to obey, and withgroaning and pain cast off one skin after another, and for each skin themaiden threw off one of her shirts, until there lay on the floor sevenlindorm skins and six snow white shirts. the seventh she still had on.The lindorm now lay before her as a formless, slimy mass, which she withall her might began to scrub with the lye and new scrubbing brushes.When she had nearly worn out the last of these there stood before herthe loveliest youth in the world. He thanked her for having saved himfrom his enchantment, and told her that he was the king and queen'seldest son, and heir to the kingdom. Then he asked her whether she wouldkeep the promise she had made to the lindorm, to share everything withhim. To this she was well content to answer 'Yes.'Each time that the lindorm had held his wedding one of the king'sretainers was sent next morning to open the door of the bridal chamberand see whether the bride was alive. This next morning also he peepedin at the door, but what he saw there surprised him so much that heshut the door in a hurry, and hastened to the king and queen, who werewaiting for his report. He told them of the wonderful sight he had seen.On the floor lay seven lindorm skins and six snow white shirts, andbeside these three worn out scrubbing brushes, while in the bed abeautiful youth was lying asleep beside the fair young maiden.The king and queen marvelled greatly what this could mean. but just thenthe old woman who was spoken of in the beginning of the story was againbrought in to the queen. She reminded her how she had not followed herinstructions, but had eaten the first onion with all its skins, on whichaccount her first born had been a lindorm. The waiting woman was thensummoned, and admitted that she had thrown it out through the windowinto the forest. The king and queen now sent for their eldest son andhis young bride. They took them both in their arms, and asked him totell about his sorrowful lot during the twenty years he had lived in theforest as a hideous lindorm. This he did, and then his parents had itproclaimed over the whole country that he was their eldest son, andalong with his spouse should inherit the country and kingdom after them.Prince Lindorm and his beautiful wife now lived in joy and prosperityfor a time in the palace. and when his father was laid in the grave,not long after this, he obtained the whole kingdom. Soon afterwards hismother also departed from this world.Now it happened that an enemy declared war against the young king. and,as he foresaw that it would be three years at the least before he couldreturn to his country and his queen, he ordered all his servants whoremained at home to guard her most carefully. That they might be able towrite to each other in confidence, he had two seal rings made, one forhimself and one for his young queen, and issued an order that no one,under pain of death, was to open any letter that was sealed with one ofthese. Then he took farewell of his queen, and marched out to war.The queen's wicked stepmother had heard with great grief that herbeautiful stepdaughter had prospered so well that she had not onlypreserved her life, but had even become queen of the country. She nowplotted continually how she might destroy her good fortune. While KingLindorm was away at the war the wicked woman came to the queen,and spoke fair to her, saying that she had always foreseen that herstepdaughter was destined to be something great in the world, andthat she had on this account secured that she should be the enchantedprince's bride. The queen, who did not imagine that any person could beso deceitful, bade her stepmother welcome, and kept her beside her.Soon after this the queen had two children, the prettiest boys thatanyone could see. When she had written a letter to the king to tell himof this her stepmother asked leave to comb her hair for her, as her ownmother used to do. The queen gave her permission, and the stepmothercombed her hair until she fell asleep. Then she took the seal ring offher neck, and exchanged the letter for another, in which she had writtenthat the queen had given birth to two whelps.When the king received. this letter he was greatly distressed, but heremembered how he himself had lived for twenty years as a lindorm, andhad been freed from the spell by his young queen. He therefore wroteback to his most trusted retainer that the queen and her two whelpsshould be taken care of while he was away.The stepmother, however, took this letter as well, and wrote a new one,in which the king ordered that the queen and the two little princesshould be burnt at the stake. This she also sealed with the queen'sseal, which was in all respects like the king's.The retainer was greatly shocked and grieved at the king's orders,for which he could discover no reason. but, as he had not the heart todestroy three innocent beings, he had a great fire kindled, and in thishe burned a sheep and two lambs, so as to make people believe that hehad carried out the king's commands. The stepmother had made these knownto the people, adding that the queen was a wicked sorceress.The faithful servant, however, told the queen that it was the king'scommand that during the years he was absent in the war she should keepherself concealed in the castle, so that no one but himself should seeher and the little princes.The queen obeyed, and no one knew but that both she and her children hadbeen burned. But when the time came near for King Lindorm to return homefrom the war the old retainer grew frightened because he had not obeyedhis orders. He therefore went to the queen, and told her everything, atthe same time showing her the king's letter containing the command toburn her and the princes. He then begged her to leave the palace beforethe king returned.The queen now took her two little sons, and wandered out into the wildforest. They walked all day without ending a human habitation, andbecame very tired. The queen then caught sight of a man who carried somevenison. He seemed very poor and wretched, but the queen was glad to seea human being, and asked him whether he knew where she and her littlechildren could get a house over their heads for the night.The man answered that he had a little hut in the forest, and that shecould rest there. but he also said that he was one who lived entirelyapart from men, and owned no more than the hut, a horse, and a dog, andsupported himself by hunting.The queen followed him to the hut and rested there overnight with herchildren, and when she awoke in the morning the man had already gone outhunting. The queen then began to put the room in order and prepare food,so that when the man came home he found everything neat and tidy, andthis seemed to give him some pleasure. He spoke but little, however, andall that he said about himself was that his name was Peter.Later in the day he rode out into the forest, and the queen thought thathe looked very unhappy. While he was away she looked about her in thehut a little more closely, and found a tub full of shirts stained withblood, lying among water. She was surprised at this, but thought thatthe man would get the blood on his shirt when he was carrying homevenison. She washed the shirts, and hung them up to dry, and saidnothing to Peter about the matter.After some time had passed she noticed that every day he came ridinghome from the forest he took off a blood stained shirt and put on aclean one. She then saw that it was something else than the blood of thedeer that stained his shirts, so one day she took courage and asked himabout it.At first he refused to tell her, but she then related to him her ownstory, and how she had succeeded in delivering the lindorm. He then toldher that he had formerly lived a wild life, and had finally enteredinto a written contract with the Evil Spirit. Before this contracthad expired he had repented and turned from his evil ways, and withdrawnhimself to this solitude. The Evil One had then lost all power to takehim, but so long as he had the contract he could compel him to meet himin the forest each day at a certain time, where the evil spirits thenscourged him till he bled.Next day, when the time came for the man to ride into the forest, thequeen asked him to stay at home and look after the princes, and shewould go to meet the evil spirits in his place. The man was amazed, andsaid that this would not only cost her her life, but would also bringupon him a greater misfortune than the one he was already under. Shebade him be of good courage, looked to see that she had the three nutswhich she had found beside her mother's grave, mounted her horse, androde out into the forest. When she had ridden for some time the evilspirits came forth and said, 'Here comes Peter's horse and Peter'shound. but Peter himself is not with them.'Then at a distance she heard a terrible voice demanding to know what shewanted.'I have come to get Peter's contract,' said she.At this there arose a terrible uproar among the evil spirits, and theworst voice among them all said, 'Ride home and tell Peter that when hecomes to morrow he shall get twice as many strokes as usual.'The queen then took one of her nuts and cracked it, and turned her horseabout. At this sparks of fire flew out of all the trees, and the evilspirits howled as if they were being scourged back to their abode.Next day at the same time the queen again rode out into the forest.but on this occasion the spirits did not dare to come so near her. Theywould not, however, give up the contract, but threatened both her andthe man. Then she cracked her second nut, and all the forest behind herseemed to be in fire and flames, and the evil spirits howled even worsethan on the previous day. but the contract they would not give up.The queen had only one nut left now, but even that she was ready to giveup in order to deliver the man. This time she cracked the nut as soonas she came near the place where the spirits appeared, and what thenhappened to them she could not see, but amid wild screams and howls thecontract was handed to her at the end of a long branch. The queen rodehappy home to the hut, and happier still was the man, who had beensitting there in great anxiety, for now he was freed from all the powerof the evil spirits.Meanwhile King Lindorm had come home from the war, and the firstquestion he asked when he entered the palace was about the queen and thewhelps. The attendants were surprised: they knew of no whelps. The queenhad had two beautiful princes. but the king had sent orders that allthese were to be burned.The king grew pale with sorrow and anger, and ordered them to summon histrusted retainer, to whom he had sent the instructions that the queenand the whelps were to be carefully looked after. The retainer, however,showed him the letter in which there was written that the queen and herchildren were to be burned, and everyone then understood that some greattreachery had been enacted.When the king's trusted retainer saw his master's deep sorrow heconfessed to him that he had spared the lives of the queen and theprinces, and had only burned a sheep and two lambs, and had kept thequeen and her children hidden in the palace for three years, but hadsent her out into the wild forest just when the king was expected home.When the king heard this his sorrow was lessened, and he said that hewould wander out into the forest and search for his wife and children.If he found them he would return to his palace. but if he did not findthem he would never see it again, and in that case the faithful retainerwho had saved the lives of the queen and the princes should be king inhis stead.The king then went forth alone into the wild forest, and wandered therethe whole day without seeing a single human being. So it went with himthe second day also, but on the third day he came by roundabout ways tothe little hut. He went in there, and asked for leave to rest himselffor a little on the bench. The queen and the princes were there, but shewas poorly clad and so sorrowful that the king did not recognise her,neither did he think for a moment that the two children, who weredressed only in rough skins, were his own sons.He lay down on the bench, and, tired as he was, he soon fell asleep. Thebench was a narrow one, and as he slept his arm fell down and hung bythe side of it.'My son, go and lift your father's arm up on the bench,' said the queento one of the princes, for she easily knew the king again, althoughshe was afraid to make herself known to him. The boy went and took theking's arm, but, being only a child, he did not lift it up very gentlyon to the bench.The king woke at this, thinking at first that he had fallen into a denof robbers, but he decided to keep quiet and pretend that he was asleepuntil he should find out what kind of folk were in the house. He laystill for a little, and, as no one moved in the room, he again let hisarm glide down off the bench. Then he heard a woman's voice say, 'Myson, go you and lift your father's arm up on the bench, but don't doit so rough!y as your brother did.' Then he felt a pair of little handssoftly clasping his arm. he opened his eyes, and saw his queen and herchildren.He sprang up and caught all three in his arms, and afterwards took them,along with the man and his horse and his hound, back to the palace withgreat joy. The most unbounded rejoicing reigned there then, as well asover the whole kingdom, but the wicked stepmother was burned.King Lindorm lived long and happily with his queen, and there are somewho say that if they are not dead now they are still living to this day.