There was once a king who wanted to marry, but he had decided to takeno woman for a wife who did not have pitch black hair and eyes of the samecolor. It made no difference to him whether she was of high or low birth.Thus he had proclaimed throughout the entire country that all girls withthese qualities should report to him.Many presented themselves, but in some instances the blackness did notreach the degree desired by the king, in other instances the hair waswrong, and   in short   there was a problem with each and every one.A charcoal burner was walking along the path with his daughter. Seeingthe crowd of people before the king's castle, she asked her father what itmeant. He told her how the king wanted to marry someone with black hairand black eyes, but that he could not find anyone who had them to hissatisfaction.The charcoal burner's daughter had both. Therefore she said to herfather, "May I go there?"He replied, "Are you so stupid that you think the king would take youfor his wife?"She told him that she would like to go and just look around the palacea little. He gave his permission, and she walked toward the palace.On the way she met a little man, who called out to her, "Hey, girl,what will you give me if you become queen?"She answered, "Hey, little man, what can I give you? I have nothing."The little man continued, "You will become queen, but in three yearsyou must still remember that my name is Kruzimugeli. If you don't knowthat, then you'll be mine.""If that's all you want from me, I'll remember it," replied thecharcoal burner's daughter, and ran to the castle. She took no more heedof the little man who stared after her, rubbing his hands together withsatisfaction.As soon as the king saw the charcoal burner's daughter he decided tomarry her, for her hair glistened and her eyes sparked with blackness. Soshe married the king and lived happily together with him. In her happinessshe almost failed to notice that the three years were coming to an end,and   oh fright!   she had forgotten the little man's name.Now she was always sad and spent every day crying. The king, who lovedher dearly, attempted to cheer her up with festivities, but all to noavail. Whenever he asked her why she was so sad, she always answered thatshe could not tell him.One day the royal forester was out in the woods in search of game forthe king's table. Going deeper into the woods, he saw a little man who hadmade a fire and was jumping over it with spiteful joy, singing the wholetime:How good it isThat the young queen doesn't knowThat my name is Kruzimugeli.The hunter listened to this and then went back home. He met the queen inthe palace garden, where   filled with sorrow   she was taking a walk.He told her immediately about the event in the woods, and as soon as sheheard the name Kruzimugeli she was almost beside herself with joy. Thenext day was the last day of the third year, and the little man would becoming to ask the queen for his name.The little man did indeed come the next day, and he asked the queen,"Now, Your Highness, do you still know my name? You may guess three times,and if you are not right, then you belong to me."The queen answered, "I think your name is Steffel."Hearing this, the little man jumped into the air with joy, and shoutedwith all his might, "Not right!"The queen then said, "Then your name must be Veitl."The little man made another leap, and called out once more, "Notright!"Now the queen said very quietly, "Then your name must be Kruzimugeli."Hearing this, and without answering, the little man jumped with a roarthrough the wall to the outside.All attempts to repair the hole that he made in the wall remainedfruitless.But the queen and her husband lived happily and contentedly for a longtime.