There was once a prince or a duke, or something of that sort, but at anyrate he belonged to a very grand family, and he would not stop at home. Sohe traveled all over the world, and wherever he went he was well liked,and was received in the best and gayest families, for he had no end ofmoney. He made friends and acquaintances, as you may imagine, wherever hewent, for he who has a well filled trough is sure to fall in with pigs whowant to have their fill. But he went on spending his money until he cameto want, and at last his purse became so empty that he had not even afarthing left. And now there was an end to all his friends as well, forthey behaved like the pigs. when the trough was empty and he had no moreto give them, they began to grunt and grin, and then they ran away in alldirections. There he stood alone with a long face. Everybody had been sowilling to help him to get rid of his money, but nobody would help him inreturn. and so there was nothing for it but to trudge home and beg forcrusts on the way.So late one evening he came to a great forest. He did not know where heshould find a shelter for the night, but he went on looking and searchingtill he caught sight of an old tumble down hut, which stood in the middleof some bushes. It was not exactly good enough for such a fine cavalier,but when you cannot get what you want you must take what you can get. And,since there was no help for it, he went into the hut.Not a living soul was to be seen. there was not even a stool to sit upon,but alongside the wall stood a big chest. What could there be inside thatchest? If only there were some bits of moldy bread in it! How nice theywould taste! For, you must know, he had not had a single bit of food thewhole day, and he was so hungry and his stomach so empty that it groanedwith pain. He lifted the lid. but inside the chest there was anotherchest, and inside that chest there was another. and so it went on, eachone smaller than the other, until they became quite tiny boxes. The morethere were the harder he worked away, for there must be something veryfine inside, he thought, since it was so well hidden.At last he came to a tiny, little box, and in this box lay a bit of paper  and that was all he got for his trouble! It was very annoying, ofcourse, but then he discovered there was something written on the paper,and when he looked at it he was just able to spell it out, although atfirst it looked somewhat difficult."Lars, my lad!"As he pronounced these words something answered right in his ear, "Whatare master's orders?"He looked round, but he saw nobody. This was very funny, he thought, andso he read out the words once more, "Lars, my lad!"And the answer came as before, "What are master's orders?"But he did not see anybody this time either."If there is anybody about who hears what I say, then be kind enough tobring me something to eat," he said. And the next moment there stood atable laid out with all the best things one could think of. He set to workto eat and drink, and had a proper fill. He had never enjoyed himself somuch in all his life, he thought.When he had eaten all he could get down, he began to feel sleepy, and sohe took out the paper again, "Lars, my lad!""What are master's orders?""Well, you have given me food and drink, and now you must get me a bed tosleep in as well. But I want a really fine bed," he said, for you mustknow he was a little more bold now that his hunger was stayed. Well, thereit stood, a bed so fine and dainty that even the king himself might covetit. Now this was all very well in its way, but when once you are well offyou wish for still more, and he had no sooner got into bed than he beganto think that the room was altogether too wretched for such a grand bed.So he took out the paper again: "Lars, my lad!""What are master's orders?""Since you are able to get me such food and such a bed here in the midstof the wild forest, I suppose you can manage to get me a better room, foryou see I am accustomed to sleep in a palace, with golden mirrors anddraped walls and ornaments and comforts of all kinds," he said.Well, he had no sooner spoken the words than he found himself lying in thegrandest chamber anybody had ever seen. Now he was comfortable, hethought, and felt quite satisfied as he turned his face to the wall andclosed his eyes. But that was not all the grandeur. for when he woke up inthe morning and looked round, he saw it was a big palace he had beensleeping in. One room led into the other, and wherever he went the placewas full of all sorts of finery and luxuries, both on the walls and on theceilings, and they glittered so much when the sun shone on them that hehad to shade his eyes with his hand, so strong was the glare of gold andsilver wherever he turned. He then happened to look out of the window.Good gracious! How grand it was! There was something else than pineforests and juniper bushes to look at, for there was the finest gardenanyone could wish for, with splendid trees and roses of all kinds. But hecould not see a single human being, or even a cat. and that, you know, wasrather lonely, for otherwise he had everything so grand and had been setup as his own master again.So he took out the bit of paper: "Lars, my lad!""What are master's orders?""Well, now you have given me food and bed and a palace to live in, Iintend to remain here, for I like the place," he said, "yet I don't liketo live quite by myself. I must have both lads and lasses whom I may orderabout to wait on me," he said.And there they were. There came servants and stewards and scullery maidsand chambermaids of all sorts, and some came bowing and some curtseying.So now the duke thought he was really satisfied. But now it happened thatthere was a large palace on the other side of the forest, and there theking lived who owned the forest, and the great, big fields around it. Ashe was walking up and down in his room he happened to look out through thewindow and saw the new palace, where the golden weathercocks were swingingto and fro on the roof in the sunlight, dazzling his eyes."This is very strange," he thought. and so he called his courtiers. Theycame rushing in, and began bowing and scraping. "Do you see the palaceover there?" said the king.They opened their eyes and began to stare. Yes, of course, they saw it."Who is it that has dared to build such a palace on my grounds?" said theking.They bowed, and they scraped with their feet, but they did not knowanything about it. The king then called his generals and captains. Theycame, stood at attention and presented arms. "Be gone, soldiers andtroopers," said the king, "and pull down the palace over there, and hanghim who has built it. and don't lose any time about it!"Well, they set off in great haste to arm themselves, and away they went.The drummers beat the skins of their drums, and the trumpeters blew theirtrumpets, and the other musicians played and blew as best they could, sothat the duke heard them long before he could see them.But he had heard this kind of noise before, and knew what it meant, so hetook out his scrap of paper: "Lars, my lad!""What are master's orders?""There are soldiers coming here," he said, "and now you must provide mewith soldiers and horses, that I may have double as many as those over inthe wood, and with sabers and pistols, and guns and cannons with all thatbelongs to them. but be quick about it."And no time was lost. for when the duke looked out, he saw an immensenumber of soldiers, who were drawn up around the palace. When the king'smen arrived, they came to a sudden halt and dared not advance. But theduke was not afraid. he went straight up to the colonel of the king'ssoldiers and asked him what he wanted. The colonel told him his errand."It's of no use," said the duke. "You see how many men I have. and if theking will listen to me, we shall become good friends, and I will help himagainst his enemies, and in such a way that it will be heard of far andwide," he said.The colonel was of the same opinion, and the duke then invited him and allhis soldiers inside the palace, and the men had more than one glass todrink and plenty of everything to eat as well. But while they were eatingand drinking they began talking. and the duke then got to hear that theking had a daughter who was his only child, and was so wonderfully fairand beautiful that no one had ever seen her like before. And the more theking's soldiers ate and drank the more they thought she would suit theduke for a wife. And they went on talking so long that the duke at lastbegan to be of the same opinion."The worst of it," said the soldiers, "is that she is just as proud as sheis beautiful, and will never look at a man."But the duke laughed at this. "If that's all," said the duke, "there'ssure to be a remedy for that complaint."When the soldiers had eaten and drunk as much as they could find room for,they shouted "Hurrah!" so that it echoed among the hills, and then theyset out homeward. But, as you may imagine, they did not walk exactly inparade order, for they were rather unsteady about the knees, and many ofthem did not carry their guns in regulation manner. The duke asked them togreet the king from him. He would call on him the following day, he said.When the duke was alone again, he began to think of the princess, and towonder if she were as beautiful and fair as they had made her out to be.He would like to make sure of it. and as so many strange things hadhappened that day it might not be impossible to find that out as well, hethought."Lars, my lad!""What are master's orders?""Well, now you must bring me the king's daughter as soon as she has goneto sleep," he said. "but she must not be awakened either on the way hereor back. Do you hear that?" he said.And before long the princess was lying on the bed. She slept so soundlyand looked so wonderfully beautiful as she lay there. Yes, she was assweet as sugar, I can tell you. The duke walked round about her, but shewas just as beautiful from whatever point of view he looked at her. Themore he looked the more he liked her."Lars, my lad!""What are master's orders?""You must now carry the princess home," he said, "for now I know how shelooks and tomorrow I will ask for her hand," he said.Next morning the king looked out of the window. "I suppose I shall not betroubled with the sight of that palace anymore," he thought. But, zounds!There it stood just as on the day before, and the sun shone so brightly onthe roof, and the weathercocks dazzled his eyes. He now became furious,and called all his men. They came quicker than usual. The courtiers bowedand scraped, and the soldiers stood at attention and presented arms. "Doyou see the palace there?" screamed the king. They stretched their necks,and stared and gaped. Yes, of course, that they did. "Have I not orderedyou to pull down the palace and hang the builder?" he said.Yes, they could not deny that. but then the colonel himself steppedforward and reported what had happened and how many soldiers the duke had,and how wonderfully grand the palace was. And next he told him what theduke had said, and how he had asked him to give his greetings to the king,and all that sort of thing. The king felt quite confused, and had to puthis crown on the table and scratch his head. He could not understand allthis, although he was a king. for he could take his oath it had all beenbuilt in a single night. and if the duke were not the evil one himself, hemust in any case have done it by magic.While he sat pondering, the princess came into the room. "Good morning toyou, father!" she said. "Just fancy, I had such a strange and beautifuldream last night!" she said."What did you dream then, my girl?" said the king."I dreamed I was in the new palace over yonder, and that I saw a dukethere, so fine and handsome that I could never have imagined the like. andnow I want to get married, father," she said."Do you want to get married?   you, who never cared to look at a man!That's very strange!" said the king."That may be." Said the princess. "but it's different now, and I want toget married, and it's the duke I want," she said.The king was quite beside himself, so frightened did he become of theduke. But all of a sudden he heard a terrible noise of drums and trumpetsand instruments of all kinds. and then came a message that the duke hadjust arrived with a large company, all of whom were so grandly dressedthat gold and silver glistened in every fold. The king put on his crownand his coronation robes, and then went out on the steps to receive them.And the princess was not slow to follow him. The duke bowed mostgraciously, and the king of course did likewise, and when they had talkedawhile about their affairs and their grandeur they became the best offriends. A great banquet was then prepared, and the duke was placed nextto the princess at the table. What they talked about is not easy to tell,but the duke spoke so well for himself that the princess could not verywell say "No" to anything he said, and then he went up to the king andasked for her hand. The king could not exactly say "No" either, for hecould very well see that the duke was a person with whom it was best to beon friendly terms. but give his sanction there and then, he could not verywell do that either. He wanted to see the duke's palace first, and findout about the state of affairs over there, as you may understand.So it was arranged that he should visit the duke and take the princesswith him to see his palace. and with this they parted company. When theduke returned home, Lars became busier than ever, for there was so much toattend to. But he set to work and strove hard. and when the king and hisdaughter arrived everything was so magnificent and splendid that no wordscan describe it. They went through all the rooms and looked about, andthey found everything as it should be, and even still more splendid,thought the king, and so he was quite pleased. The wedding then tookplace, and that in grand style. and on the duke's arrival home with hisbride he, too, gave a great feast, and then there was an end to thefestivities.Some time passed by, and one evening the duke heard these words: "Are yousatisfied now?"It was Lars, as you may guess, but the duke could not see him. "Well, Iought to be," said the duke. "You have provided me with everything Ihave," he said."Yes, but what have I got in return?" asked Lars."Nothing," said the duke. "but, bless me, what could I have given you, whoare not of flesh and blood, and whom I cannot see either?" he said. "Butif there is anything I can do for you, tell me what it is, and I shall doit.""Well, I should like to ask you for that little scrap of paper which youfound in the chest," said Lars. "Nothing else?" said the duke. "If such atrifle can help you, I can easily do without it, for now I begin to knowthe words by heart," he said.Lars thanked the duke, and asked him to put the paper on the chair infront of the bed when he retired to rest, and he would be sure to fetch itduring the night. The duke did as he was told. and so he and the princesslay down and went to sleep. But early in the morning the duke awoke andfelt so cold that his teeth chattered, and when he had got his eyes quiteopen he found that he was quite naked and had not even as much as a threadon his back. and instead of the grand bed and the beautiful bedroom, andthe magnificent palace, he lay on the big chest in the old tumble downhut.He began to shout, "Lars, my lad!"But he got no answer. He shouted once more, "Lars, my lad!"But he got no answer this time either. So he shouted all he could, "Lars,my lad!"But it was all in vain. Now he began to understand how matters stood. WhenLars had got the scrap of paper he was freed from service at the sametime, and now he had taken everything with him. But there was no help forit. There stood the duke in the old hut quite naked. and as for theprincess she was not much better off, although she had her clothes on, forshe had got them from her father, so Lars had no power over them. The dukehad now to tell the princess everything, and ask her to leave him. Hewould have to manage as best he could, he said. But she would not hear ofit. She well remembered what the parson had said when he married them, andshe would never, never leave him, she said.In the meantime the king in his palace had also awakened, and when helooked out of the window he did not see any sign whatever of the otherpalace where his daughter and son in law lived. He became uneasy, as youmay imagine, and called his courtiers. They came in, and began to bow andscrape."Do you see the palace over yonder behind the forest?" he asked. Theystretched their necks and stared with all their might. No, they did notsee it."Where had it gone to, then?" asked the king. Well, really they did notknow. It was not long before the king set out with all his court throughthe forest. and when he arrived at the place where the palace with thebeautiful gardens should have been, he could not see anything but heatherand juniper bushes and firs. But then he discovered the old tumble downhut, which stood there among the bushes. He entered the hut and   mercyon us!   what a sight met his eyes! There stood his son in law, quitenaked, and his daughter, who had not very many clothes on either, and whowas crying and moaning."Dear, dear! what does all this mean?" said the king. but he did not getany answer, for the duke would rather have died than tell him. The kingdid his utmost to get him to speak. but in spite of all the king'spromises and threats the duke remained obstinate and would not utter aword.The king then became angry. and no wonder, for now he could see that thisgrand duke was not what he pretended to be, and so he ordered the duke tobe hanged, and that without any loss of time. The princess begged andprayed for mercy. but neither prayers nor tears were of any help now. foran impostor he was, and as an impostor he should die, said the king. Andso it had to be. They erected a gallows, and placed the rope round theduke's neck. But while they were getting the gallows ready, the princessgot hold of the hangman, and gave both him and his assistant some money,that they should so manage the hanging of the duke that he should not losehis life, and in the night they were to cut him down, so that he and theprincess might then flee the country. And that's how the matter wasarranged.In the meantime they had strung up the duke, and the king and his courtand all the people went their way. The duke was now in great straits. Hehad, however, plenty of time to reflect how foolish he had been in notsaving some of the crumbs when he was living in plenty, and howunpardonably stupid he had been in letting Lars have the scrap of paper.This vexed him more than all. If only he had it again, he thought, theyshould see he had been gaining some sense in return for all he had lost.But it is of little use snarling if you haven't got any teeth."Ah, well, well!" he sighed, and so he dangled his legs, which was reallyall he could do. The day passed slowly and tediously for him, and he wasnot at all displeased when he saw the sun setting behind the forest. Butjust before it disappeared he heard a fearful shouting, and when he lookeddown the hill, he saw seven cartloads of worn out shoes, and on the top ofthe hindmost cart he saw a little old man in gray clothes and with a redpointed cap on his head. His face was like that of the worst scarecrow,and the rest of him was not very handsome either.He drove straight up to the gallows, and when he arrived right under it hestopped and looked up at the duke, and then burst out laughing, the uglyold fellow! "How stupid you were!" he said. "but what should the fool dowith his stupidity if he did not make use of it?" And then he laughedagain. "Yes, there you are hanging now, and here am I carting away all theshoes I have worn out for your whims. I wonder if you can read what iswritten on this bit of paper, and if you recognize it?" he said with anugly laugh, holding up the paper before the duke's eyes.But all who hang are not dead, and this time it was Lars who was befooled.The duke made a clutch, and snatched the paper from him."Lars, my lad!""What are master's orders?""Well, you must cut me down from the gallows and put the palace and allthe rest in its place again, exactly as it was before, and when the nighthas set in you must bring back the princess."All went merrily as in a dance, and before long everything was in itsplace, just as it was when Lars took himself off. When the king awoke thenext morning he looked out of the window, as was his custom, and therestood the palace again, with the weathercocks glittering so beautifully inthe sunshine. He called his courtiers, and they came and began to bow andscrape. They stretched their necks as far as they could, and stared andgaped."Do you see the palace over there?" said the king. Yes, of course, theydid. The king then sent for the princess, but she was not to be found. Hethen went out to see if his son in law was still hanging on the gallows,but neither son in law nor gallows was to be seen. He had to lift off hiscrown and scratch his head. But that did not improve matters. he could notmake head or tail of either one thing or the other. He set off at oncewith all his court through the forest, and when he came to the place wherethe palace should stand, there it stood sure enough. The gardens and theroses were exactly as they used to be, and the duke's people were to beseen everywhere among the trees. His son in law and his daughter receivedhim on the steps, dressed in their finest clothes."Well, I never saw the like of this," said the king to himself. he couldscarcely believe his own eyes, so wonderful did it all seem to him."God's peace be with you, father, and welcome here!" said the duke.The king stood staring at him. "Are you my son in law?" he asked."Well, I suppose I am," said the duke. "Who else should I be?""Did I not order you to be hanged yesterday like any common thief?" saidthe king."I think you must have been bewitched on the way," said the duke, with alaugh. "Do you think I am the man to let myself be hanged? Or is thereanyone here who dares to believe it?" he said, and looked so fiercely atthe courtiers that they felt as if they were being pierced through andthrough. They bowed and scraped and cringed before him. Who could believesuch a thing? Was it at all likely?"Well, if there is anyone who dares to say the king could have wished mesuch evil, let him speak out," said the duke, and fixed his eyes upon themstill more fiercely than before. They went on bowing and scraping andcringing. How could anyone dare say such a thing? No, they had more sensethan that, they should hope. The king did not know what to believe, forwhen he looked at the duke he thought he never could have wished him suchevil. but still he was not quite convinced."Did I not come here yesterday, and was not the whole palace gone, and wasthere not an old hut in its place? And did not I go into that hut, and didnot you stand stark naked right before my eyes?" he asked."I wonder the king can talk so," said the duke. "I think the trolls musthave bewitched your eyes in the forest and made you quite crazy. or whatdo you think?" he said, and turned round to the courtiers. They bowed andbowed till their backs were bent double, and agreed with everything hesaid, there could be no mistake about that. The king rubbed his eyes, andlooked round about him."I suppose it is as you say, then," he said to the duke, "and it is well Ihave got back my proper sight and have come to my senses again. For itwould have been a sin and a shame if I had let you be hanged," he said.and so he was happy again, and nobody thought any more about the matter."Once bitten, twice shy," as the proverb says. and the duke now took uponhimself to manage and look after most of his affairs, so that it wasseldom Lars had to wear out his shoes. The king soon gave the duke halfthe kingdom into the bargain. so he had now plenty to do, and people saidthey would have to search a long time to find his equal in wise and justruling.Then one day Lars came to the duke, looking very little better than thefirst time he had seen him. but he was, of course, more humble, and didnot dare giggle and make grimaces. "You do not want my help any longer,now," he said. "for although I did wear out my shoes at first, I am nowunable to wear out a single pair, and my feet will soon be covered allover with moss. So I thought I might now get my leave of absence," hesaid.The duke quite agreed with him. "I have tried to spare you, and I almostthink I could do without you," he said. "But the palace and all the rest Ido not want to lose, for such a clever builder as you I shall never getagain. nor do I ever want to adorn the gallows again, as you can wellunderstand. so I cannot give you back the paper on any account," he said."Well, as long as you have got it, I need not fear," said Lars. "but ifanybody else should get hold of it there will be nothing but running andtrudging about again, and that's what I want to avoid. for when one hasbeen tramping about for a thousand years, as I have done, one begins toget tired of it," he said.But they went on talking, and at last they agreed that the duke should putthe paper in the box, and then bury it seven ells under the ground, undera stone fixed in the earth. They then gave mutual thanks for the time theyhad spent in each other's company, and so they parted. The duke carriedout his part of the agreement, for he was not likely to want to change it.He lived happy and contented with the princess, and they had both sons anddaughters. When the king died, he got the whole of the kingdom, and youmay guess he was none the worse off for that. and there no doubt he stilllives and reigns, if he is not dead. But as for the box with the scrap ofpaper in it, there are many who are still running about looking for it.