Once upon a time there was a boy whose name was Jack, and he lived withhis mother on a common. They were very poor, and the old woman got herliving by spinning, but Jack was so lazy that he would do nothing but baskin the sun in the hot weather, and sit by the corner of the hearth in thewintertime. So they called him Lazy Jack.His mother could not get him to do anything for her, and at last toldhim, one Monday, that if he did not begin to work for his porridge shewould turn him out to get his living as he could.This roused Jack, and he went out and hired himself for the next day toa neighboring farmer for a penny. But as he was coming home, never havinghad any money before, he lost it in passing over a brook."You stupid boy," said his mother, "you should have put it in yourpocket.""I'll do so another time," replied Jack.On Wednesday, Jack went out again and hired himself to a cow keeper,who gave him a jar of milk for his day's work. Jack took the jar and putit into the large pocket of his jacket, spilling it all, long before hegot home."Dear me!" said the old woman. "You should have carried it on yourhead.""I'll do so another time," said Jack.So on Thursday, Jack hired himself again to a farmer who agreed to givehim a cream cheese for his services. In the evening Jack took the cheese,and went home with it on his head. By the time he got home the cheese wasall spoiled, part of it being lost, and part matted with his hair."You stupid lout," said his mother, "you should have carried it verycarefully in your hands.""I'll do another time," replied Jack.On Friday Lazy Jack again went out, and hired himself to a baker, whowould give him nothing for his work but a large tomcat. Jack took the cat,and began carrying it very carefully in his hands, but in a short timepussy scratched him so much that he was compelled to let it go.When he got home, his mother said to him, "You silly fellow, you shouldhave tied it with a string, and dragged it along after you.""I'll do so another time," said Jack.So on Saturday Jack hired himself to a butcher, who rewarded him by thehandsome present of a shoulder of mutton. Jack took the mutton, tied it toa string and trailed it along after him in the dirt, so that by the timehe had got home the meat was completely spoiled.His mother was this time quite out of patience with him, for the nextday was Sunday, and she was obliged to do with cabbage for her dinner."You ninny hammer," said she to her son, "you should have carried it onyour shoulder.""I'll do so another time," replied Jack.On the next Monday Lazy Jack went once more, and hired himself to acattle keeper, who gave him a donkey for his trouble. Jack found it hardto hoist the donkey on his shoulders, but at last he did it, and beganwalking slowly home with his prize.Now it happened that in the course of his journey there lived a richman with his only daughter, a beautiful girl, but deaf and dumb. Now shehad never laughed in her life, and the doctors said she would never speaktill somebody made her laugh. This young lady happened to be looking outof the window when jack was passing with the donkey on his shoulders, withthe legs sticking up in the air, and the sight was so comical and strangethat she burst out into a great fit of laughter, and immediately recoveredher speech and hearing. Her father was overjoyed, and fulfilled hispromise by marrying her to Lazy Jack, who was thus made a rich gentleman.They lived in a large house, and Jack's mother lived with them in greathappiness until she died.