Lean Lisa was not at all like Lazy Heinz and Fat Trina, who would notallow anything to disturb their rest. She burned herself out from morninguntil evening and loaded so much work on her husband, Lanky Lenz, that itwas harder for him than for a donkey loaded with three sacks. But it wasall for naught. They had nothing, and they got nothing.One evening she was lying in bed, too tired to move a muscle but stillunable to fall asleep, when she poked her husband in the side with herelbow and said, "Lenz, listen to what I just thought of. If I were to finda florin, and you were to give me another one, then I'd borrow yet anotherone, and you'd give me still another one, and then I would take the fourflorins and buy a young cow."The man agreed. "I don't know," he said, "where I'm to get that florinI'm supposed to give you, but after you have the money to buy a cow, itwill be a good thing." Then he added, "I'm looking forward to the timeafter the cow calves, so I can have some good refreshing milk todrink.""The milk is not for you," said the woman. "We will let the calf suck,so it will grow large and fat, and we can sell it for a good price.""Of course," said the man, "but it won't hurt anything if we take alittle milk.""Who taught you about cows?" said the woman. "I won't allow it, whetherit will hurt anything or not. You can stand on your head, but you won'tget a single drop of milk. Lanky Lenz, just because you are always hungry,you think that you can devour everything that my hard work brings in.""Woman," said the man, "be quiet, or I'll plant one on the side of yourface.""What!" she cried. "Are you threatening me! You glutton! Yougood for nothing! You lazybones!"She was reaching for his hair, but Lanky Lenz raised himself up, tookhold of both her skinny arms with one hand, then pushed her head into thepillow with the other one. He held her there and let her scold until shefell asleep from exhaustion.The next morning when she woke up, I do not know whether she continuedto quarrel, or whether she went out to look for the florin that she wantedto find.