Not far from the borders of Gloucestershire and Oxfordshire, and withinthe latter county, is the pretty village of Rollright and near thevillage, up a hill, stands a circle of small stones, and one larger stone,such as our Celtic antiquaries say were raised by the Druids.As soon as the Druids left them, the fairies, who never failed to takepossession of their deserted shrines, seemed to have had an especial careover these stones, and anyone who ventures to meddle with them is sure tomeet with some very great misfortune.The old people of the village, however, who generally know most aboutthese matters, say the stones were once a king and his knights, who weregoing to make war on the King of England. And they assert that, accordingto old prophecies, had they ever reached Long Compton, the King of Englandmust inevitably have been dethroned, and this king would have reigned inhis place. But when they came to the village of Rollright they weresuddenly turned into stones in the place where they now stand.Be this as it may, there was once a farmer in the village who wanted alarge stone to put in a particular position in an outhouse he was buildingin his farmyard, and he thought that one of the old knights would be justthe thing for him. In spite of all the warnings of his neighbors hedetermined to have the stone he wanted, and he put four horses to his bestwagon and proceeded up the hill. With much labor he succeeded in gettingthe stone into his wagon, and though the road lay down hill, it was soheavy that his wagon was broken and his horses were killed by the labor ofdrawing it home. Nothing daunted by all these mishaps, the farmer raisedthe stone to the place it was to occupy in his new building.From this moment everything went wrong with him. His crops failed yearafter year. His cattle died one after another. He was obliged to mortgagehis land and to sell his wagons and horses, till at last he had left onlyone poor broken down horse which nobody would buy, and one old crazy cart.Suddenly the thought came into his head that all his misfortunes might beowing to the identical stone which he had brought from the circle at thetop of the hill. He thought he would try to get it back again, and hisonly horse was put to the cart. To his surprise he got the stone down andlifted it into the cart with very little trouble, and, as soon as it wasin, the horse, which could scarcely bear along its own limbs, now drew itup the hill of its own accord with as little trouble as another horsewould draw an empty cart on level ground, until it came to the very spotwhere the stone had formerly stood beside its companions.The stone was soon in its place, and the horse and cart returned home, andfrom that moment the farmer's affairs began to improve, till in a shorttime he was a richer and more substantial man than he had ever beenbefore.Footnote:The old rhyme runs  If Long Compton thou can'st see,Then King of England thou shalt be.See Hutchinson's History of Cumberland , i. 230.