Each of following electronic text libraries contains a substantialcollection of works relating to folk and fairy tales.Arthur's Classic Novelsincludes numerous traditional and literary fairy tales, mostly borrowedfrom other Internet sites then attractively reformatted.The BaldwinProject , according to its mission statement, brings yesterday'sclassics to today's children. It currently lists nearly 2,000 stories,many of them folk and fairy tales. The site is indexed by grade level,genre (including fables, fairy tales, and legends), book title, and othercategories. The texts are handsomely formatted and easy to read.Bartleby.com isone of the pioneering electronic text sites. Its strong points include avery useful search mechanism, a large collection of integrated referenceworks, plus a good assortment of carefully edited classics.Bibliomanialists more than 2,000 classic texts.Children's BooksOnline (the Rosetta Project) is a large collection of illustratedchildren's books, mostly from the nineteenth and early twentiethcenturies. The books are reproduced as single page, full color imagefiles, resulting in accurate and appealing replicas of the originals. Anadded attraction are the text file translations of many of the storiesinto various languages.ClassicReader.com contains booksand short stories by more than 200 authors. The children's sectionincludes numerous collections of traditional fairy tales, and theshort story section contains many literary fairy tales.The ElectronicText Center at the University of Virginia is a pioneer in the editingand distribution of electronic texts in various formats. Included in thesection for young readers are many folk and fairy tale related items.Folktexts , compiledand edited by D. L. Ashliman, University of Pittsburgh, offers a varietyof folklore and mythology texts, arranged in groups of closely relatedstories.The Hockliffe Projectis centered around the Hockliffe Collection of early British children'sbooks held by De Montfort University in Leicester and Bedford, England.The books are scanned into image files, rather than text files, yieldingexact replicas of each page.The Kellscraft Studiospecializes in illustrated books from the period 1890 1920, including manyfairy tale collections. Take special notice of two books beautifullyillustrated by Blanche McManus: The True Mother Goose and Toldin the Twilight.The PerseusDigital Library , sponsored by Tufts University, is an extensive andwell engineered site combining images, texts, and scholarship. Theprincipal fields represented are Greek and Roman civilization and theEnglish Renaissance. Of special interest to students of folktales are thefables of Phaedrus.ProjectGutenberg , begun in 1971, is the Internet's oldest producer of freeelectronic books, and with over 6,000 online books is among the largest.With the help of many volunteers the library is expanding at the rate ofabout one new book per day. Project Gutenberg's text only and easilydownloadable files are among the most carefully scanned and proof readdigital texts available.SacredTextArchive . This remarkable site's name does not say it all. In additionto housing the scriptures of many religions, it contains mythology andfolklore texts from around the world. Each of the following topics,selected from a list at the lower left side of the site's index page,yields a number of folklore texts: African, Americana, Australia,Buddhism, Celtic, Egyptian, England, Greek/Roman, Hinduism, Judaism,Legends/Sagas (includes the Thousand and One Nights ), NativeAmerican, Pacific, and Tolkien.