Many years ago there lived a dear little girl who was beloved by everyone who knew her. but her grand mother was so very fond of her that shenever felt she could think and do enough to please this deargrand daughter, and she presented the little girl with a red silk cap,which suited her so well, that she would never wear anything else, andso was called Little Red Cap.One day Red Cap's mother said to her, "Come, Red Cap, here is a nicepiece of meat, and a bottle of wine: take these to your grandmother. sheis weak and ailing, and they will do her good. Be there before she getsup. go quietly and carefully."The grandmother lived far away in the wood, a long walk from thevillage, and as Little Red Cap came among the trees she met a Wolf. butshe did not know what a wicked animal it was, and so she was not at allfrightened. "Good morning, Little Red Cap," he said."Thank you, Mr. Wolf," said she."Where are you going so early, Little Red Cap?""To my grandmother's," she answered."And what are you carrying in that basket?""Some wine and meat," she replied. "We baked the meat yesterday, so thatgrandmother, who is very weak, might have a nice strengthening meal.""And where does your grandmother live?" asked the Wolf."Oh, quite twenty minutes walk further in the forest. The cottage standsunder three great oak trees. and close by are some nut bushes, by whichyou will at once know it."The Wolf was thinking to himself, "She is a nice tender thing, and willtaste better than the old woman. I must act cleverly, that I may make ameal of both."Presently he came up again to Little Red Cap, and said, "Just look atthe beautiful flowers which grow around you. why do you not look aboutyou? I believe you don't hear how sweetly the birds are singing. Youwalk as if you were going to school. see how cheerful everything isabout you in the forest."And Little Red Cap opened her eyes. and when she saw how the sunbeamsglanced and danced through the trees, and what bright flowers wereblooming in her path, she thought, "If I take my grandmother a freshnosegay, she will be very much pleased. and it is so very early that Ican, even then, get there in good time." and running into the forest,she looked about for flowers. But when she had once begun she did notknow how to leave off, and kept going deeper and deeper amongst thetrees looking for some still more beautiful flower. The Wolf, however,ran straight to the house of the old grandmother, and knocked at thedoor."Who's there?" asked the old lady."Only Little Red Cap, bringing you some meat and wine. please open thedoor," answered the Wolf. "Lift up the latch," cried the grandmother. "Iam much too ill to get up myself."So the Wolf lifted the latch, and the door flew open. and without aword, he jumped on to the bed, and gobbled up the poor old lady. Then heput on her clothes, and tied her night cap over his head. got into thebed, and drew the blankets over him. All this time Red Cap was gatheringflowers. and when she had picked as many as she could carry, she thoughtof her grandmother, and hurried to the cottage. She wondered greatly tofind the door open. and when she got into the room, she began to feelvery ill, and exclaimed, "How sad I feel! I wish I had not come to day."Then she said, "Good morning," but received no reply. so she went up tothe bed, and drew back the curtains, and there lay her grandmother, asshe imagined, with the cap drawn half over her eyes, and looking veryfierce."Oh, grandmother, what great ears you have!" she said."All the better to hear you with," was the reply."And what great eyes you have!""All the better to see you with.""And what great hands you have!""All the better to touch you with.""But, grandmother, what very great teeth you have!""All the better to eat you with." and hardly were the words spoken whenthe Wolf made a jump out of bed, and swallowed up poor Little Red Capalso.As soon as the Wolf had thus satisfied his hunger, he laid himself downagain on the bed, and went to sleep and snored very loudly. A huntsmanpassing by overheard him, and said, "How loudly that old woman snores! Imust see if anything is the matter."So he went into the cottage. and when he came to the bed, he saw theWolf sleeping in it. "What! are you here, you old rascal? I have beenlooking for you," exclaimed he. and taking up his gun, he shot the oldWolf through the head.But it is also said that the story ends in a different manner. for thatone day, when Red Cap was taking some presents to her grandmother, aWolf met her, and wanted to mislead her. but she went straight on, andtold her grandmother that she had met a Wolf, who said good day, and wholooked so hungrily out of his great eyes, as if he would have eaten herup had she not been on the high road.So her grandmother said, "We will shut the door, and then he cannot getin." Soon after, up came the Wolf, who tapped, and exclaimed, "I amLittle Red Cap, grandmother. I have some roast meat for you." But theykept quite quiet, and did not open the door. so the Wolf, after lookingseveral times round the house, at last jumped on the roof, thinking towait till Red Cap went home in the evening, and then to creep after herand eat her in the darkness. The old woman, however, saw what thevillain intended. There stood before the door a large stone trough, andshe said to Little Red Cap, "Take this bucket, dear: yesterday I boiledsome meat in this water, now pour it into the stone trough." Then theWolf sniffed the smell of the meat, and his mouth watered, and he wishedvery much to taste. At last he stretched his neck too far over, so thathe lost his balance, and fell down from the roof, right into the greattrough below, and there he was drowned.