There was once a woman who wished very much to have a littlechild, but she could not obtain her wish. At last she went to a fairy,and said, "I should so very much like to have a little child. canyou tell me where I can find one?""Oh, that can be easily managed," said the fairy. "Here is abarleycorn of a different kind to those which grow in the farmer'sfields, and which the chickens eat. put it into a flower pot, andsee what will happen.""Thank you," said the woman, and she gave the fairy twelveshillings, which was the price of the barleycorn. Then she went homeand planted it, and immediately there grew up a large handsome flower,something like a tulip in appearance, but with its leaves tightlyclosed as if it were still a bud. "It is a beautiful flower," said thewoman, and she kissed the red and golden colored leaves, and while shedid so the flower opened, and she could see that it was a realtulip. Within the flower, upon the green velvet stamens, sat a verydelicate and graceful little maiden. She was scarcely half as longas a thumb, and they gave her the name of "Thumbelina," or Tiny,because she was so small. A walnut shell, elegantly polished, servedher for a cradle. her bed was formed of blue violet leaves, with arose leaf for a counterpane. Here she slept at night, but during theday she amused herself on a table, where the woman had placed aplateful of water. Round this plate were wreaths of flowers with theirstems in the water, and upon it floated a large tulip leaf, whichserved Tiny for a boat. Here the little maiden sat and rowed herselffrom side to side, with two oars made of white horse hair. It reallywas a very pretty sight. Tiny could, also, sing so softly andsweetly that nothing like her singing had ever before been heard.One night, while she lay in her pretty bed, a large, ugly, wet toadcrept through a broken pane of glass in the window, and leaped rightupon the table where Tiny lay sleeping under her rose leaf quilt."What a pretty little wife this would make for my son," said thetoad, and she took up the walnut shell in which little Tiny layasleep, and jumped through the window with it into the garden.In the swampy margin of a broad stream in the garden lived thetoad, with her son. He was uglier even than his mother, and when hesaw the pretty little maiden in her elegant bed, he could only cry,"Croak, croak, croak.""Don't speak so loud, or she will wake," said the toad, "andthen she might run away, for she is as light as swan's down. We willplace her on one of the water lily leaves out in the stream. it willbe like an island to her, she is so light and small, and then shecannot escape. and, while she is away, we will make haste andprepare the state room under the marsh, in which you are to livewhen you are married."Far out in the stream grew a number of water lilies, with broadgreen leaves, which seemed to float on the top of the water. Thelargest of these leaves appeared farther off than the rest, and theold toad swam out to it with the walnut shell, in which little Tinylay still asleep. The tiny little creature woke very early in themorning, and began to cry bitterly when she found where she was, forshe could see nothing but water on every side of the large green leaf,and no way of reaching the land. Meanwhile the old toad was verybusy under the marsh, decking her room with rushes and wild yellowflowers, to make it look pretty for her new daughter in law. Thenshe swam out with her ugly son to the leaf on which she had placedpoor little Tiny. She wanted to fetch the pretty bed, that she mightput it in the bridal chamber to be ready for her. The old toad bowedlow to her in the water, and said, "Here is my son, he will be yourhusband, and you will live happily in the marsh by the stream.""Croak, croak, croak," was all her son could say for himself. sothe toad took up the elegant little bed, and swam away with it,leaving Tiny all alone on the green leaf, where she sat and wept.She could not bear to think of living with the old toad, and havingher ugly son for a husband. The little fishes, who swam about in thewater beneath, had seen the toad, and heard what she said, so theylifted their heads above the water to look at the little maiden. Assoon as they caught sight of her, they saw she was very pretty, and itmade them very sorry to think that she must go and live with theugly toads. "No, it must never be!" so they assembled together inthe water, round the green stalk which held the leaf on which thelittle maiden stood, and gnawed it away at the root with theirteeth. Then the leaf floated down the stream, carrying Tiny far awayout of reach of land.Tiny sailed past many towns, and the little birds in the bushessaw her, and sang, "What a lovely little creature." so the leaf swamaway with her farther and farther, till it brought her to other lands.A graceful little white butterfly constantly fluttered round her,and at last alighted on the leaf. Tiny pleased him, and she was gladof it, for now the toad could not possibly reach her, and thecountry through which she sailed was beautiful, and the sun shone uponthe water, till it glittered like liquid gold. She took off her girdleand tied one end of it round the butterfly, and the other end of theribbon she fastened to the leaf, which now glided on much fasterthan ever, taking little Tiny with it as she stood. Presently alarge cockchafer flew by. the moment he caught sight of her, he seizedher round her delicate waist with his claws, and flew with her intoa tree. The green leaf floated away on the brook, and the butterflyflew with it, for he was fastened to it, and could not get away.Oh, how frightened little Tiny felt when the cockchafer flewwith her to the tree! But especially was she sorry for the beautifulwhite butterfly which she had fastened to the leaf, for if he couldnot free himself he would die of hunger. But the cockchafer did nottrouble himself at all about the matter. He seated himself by her sideon a large green leaf, gave her some honey from the flowers to eat,and told her she was very pretty, though not in the least like acockchafer. After a time, all the cockchafers turned up their feelers,and said, "She has only two legs! how ugly that looks." "She has nofeelers," said another. "Her waist is quite slim. Pooh! she is likea human being.""Oh! she is ugly," said all the lady cockchafers, although Tinywas very pretty. Then the cockchafer who had run away with her,believed all the others when they said she was ugly, and would havenothing more to say to her, and told her she might go where she liked.Then he flew down with her from the tree, and placed her on a daisy,and she wept at the thought that she was so ugly that even thecockchafers would have nothing to say to her. And all the while shewas really the loveliest creature that one could imagine, and astender and delicate as a beautiful rose leaf. During the wholesummer poor little Tiny lived quite alone in the wide forest. She woveherself a bed with blades of grass, and hung it up under a broad leaf,to protect herself from the rain. She sucked the honey from theflowers for food, and drank the dew from their leaves every morning.So passed away the summer and the autumn, and then came the winter, thelong, cold winter. All the birds who had sung to her so sweetlywere flown away, and the trees and the flowers had withered. The largeclover leaf under the shelter of which she had lived, was now rolledtogether and shrivelled up, nothing remained but a yellow witheredstalk. She felt dreadfully cold, for her clothes were torn, and shewas herself so frail and delicate, that poor little Tiny was nearlyfrozen to death. It began to snow too. and the snow flakes, as theyfell upon her, were like a whole shovelful falling upon one of us, forwe are tall, but she was only an inch high. Then she wrapped herselfup in a dry leaf, but it cracked in the middle and could not keepher warm, and she shivered with cold. Near the wood in which she hadbeen living lay a corn field, but the corn had been cut a long time.nothing remained but the bare dry stubble standing up out of thefrozen ground. It was to her like struggling through a large wood. Oh!how she shivered with the cold. She came at last to the door of afield mouse, who had a little den under the corn stubble. Theredwelt the field mouse in warmth and comfort, with a whole roomful ofcorn, a kitchen, and a beautiful dining room. Poor little Tiny stoodbefore the door just like a little beggar girl, and begged for a smallpiece of barley corn, for she had been without a morsel to eat for twodays."You poor little creature," said the field mouse, who was really agood old field mouse, "come into my warm room and dine with me." Shewas very pleased with Tiny, so she said, "You are quite welcome tostay with me all the winter, if you like. but you must keep my roomsclean and neat, and tell me stories, for I shall like to hear themvery much." And Tiny did all the field mouse asked her, and foundherself very comfortable."We shall have a visitor soon," said the field mouse one day."my neighbor pays me a visit once a week. He is better off than Iam. he has large rooms, and wears a beautiful black velvet coat. Ifyou could only have him for a husband, you would be well providedfor indeed. But he is blind, so you must tell him some of yourprettiest stories."But Tiny did not feel at all interested about this neighbor, forhe was a mole. However, he came and paid his visit dressed in hisblack velvet coat."He is very rich and learned, and his house is twenty times largerthan mine," said the field mouse.He was rich and learned, no doubt, but he always spoke slightinglyof the sun and the pretty flowers, because he had never seen them.Tiny was obliged to sing to him, "Lady bird, lady bird, fly awayhome," and many other pretty songs. And the mole fell in love with herbecause she had such a sweet voice. but he said nothing yet, for hewas very cautious. A short time before, the mole had dug a longpassage under the earth, which led from the dwelling of thefield mouse to his own, and here she had permission to walk withTiny whenever she liked. But he warned them not to be alarmed at thesight of a dead bird which lay in the passage. It was a perfectbird, with a beak and feathers, and could not have been dead long, andwas lying just where the mole had made his passage. The mole took apiece of phosphorescent wood in his mouth, and it glittered likefire in the dark. then he went before them to light them through thelong, dark passage. When they came to the spot where lay the deadbird, the mole pushed his broad nose through the ceiling, the earthgave way, so that there was a large hole, and the daylight shoneinto the passage. In the middle of the floor lay a dead swallow, hisbeautiful wings pulled close to his sides, his feet and his head drawnup under his feathers. the poor bird had evidently died of the cold.It made little Tiny very sad to see it, she did so love the littlebirds. all the summer they had sung and twittered for her sobeautifully. But the mole pushed it aside with his crooked legs, andsaid, "He will sing no more now. How miserable it must be to be born alittle bird! I am thankful that none of my children will ever bebirds, for they can do nothing but cry, 'Tweet, tweet,' and always dieof hunger in the winter.""Yes, you may well say that, as a clever man!" exclaimed thefield mouse, "What is the use of his twittering, for when winter comeshe must either starve or be frozen to death. Still birds are very highbred."Tiny said nothing. but when the two others had turned theirbacks on the bird, she stooped down and stroked aside the softfeathers which covered the head, and kissed the closed eyelids."Perhaps this was the one who sang to me so sweetly in the summer,"she said. "and how much pleasure it gave me, you dear, pretty bird."The mole now stopped up the hole through which the daylight shone,and then accompanied the lady home. But during the night Tiny couldnot sleep. so she got out of bed and wove a large, beautiful carpet ofhay. then she carried it to the dead bird, and spread it over him.with some down from the flowers which she had found in thefield mouse's room. It was as soft as wool, and she spread some ofit on each side of the bird, so that he might lie warmly in the coldearth. "Farewell, you pretty little bird," said she, "farewell.thank you for your delightful singing during the summer, when allthe trees were green, and the warm sun shone upon us." Then she laidher head on the bird's breast, but she was alarmed immediately, for itseemed as if something inside the bird went "thump, thump." It was thebird's heart. he was not really dead, only benumbed with the cold, andthe warmth had restored him to life. In autumn, all the swallows flyaway into warm countries, but if one happens to linger, the coldseizes it, it becomes frozen, and falls down as if dead. it remainswhere it fell, and the cold snow covers it. Tiny trembled very much.she was quite frightened, for the bird was large, a great deallarger than herself, she was only an inch high. But she took courage,laid the wool more thickly over the poor swallow, and then took a leafwhich she had used for her own counterpane, and laid it over thehead of the poor bird. The next morning she again stole out to seehim. He was alive but very weak. he could only open his eyes for amoment to look at Tiny, who stood by holding a piece of decayed woodin her hand, for she had no other lantern. "Thank you, pretty littlemaiden," said the sick swallow. "I have been so nicely warmed, thatI shall soon regain my strength, and be able to fly about again in thewarm sunshine.""Oh," said she, "it is cold out of doors now. it snows andfreezes. Stay in your warm bed. I will take care of you."Then she brought the swallow some water in a flower leaf, andafter he had drank, he told her that he had wounded one of his wingsin a thorn bush, and could not fly as fast as the others, who weresoon far away on their journey to warm countries. Then at last hehad fallen to the earth, and could remember no more, nor how he cameto be where she had found him. The whole winter the swallow remainedunderground, and Tiny nursed him with care and love. Neither themole nor the field mouse knew anything about it, for they did not likeswallows. Very soon the spring time came, and the sun warmed theearth. Then the swallow bade farewell to Tiny, and she opened the holein the ceiling which the mole had made. The sun shone in upon themso beautifully, that the swallow asked her if she would go with him.she could sit on his back, he said, and he would fly away with herinto the green woods. But Tiny knew it would make the field mouse verygrieved if she left her in that manner, so she said, "No, I cannot.""Farewell, then, farewell, you good, pretty little maiden," saidthe swallow. and he flew out into the sunshine.Tiny looked after him, and the tears rose in her eyes. She wasvery fond of the poor swallow."Tweet, tweet," sang the bird, as he flew out into the greenwoods, and Tiny felt very sad. She was not allowed to go out intothe warm sunshine. The corn which had been sown in the field overthe house of the field mouse had grown up high into the air, andformed a thick wood to Tiny, who was only an inch in height."You are going to be married, Tiny," said the field mouse. "Myneighbor has asked for you. What good fortune for a poor child likeyou. Now we will prepare your wedding clothes. They must be bothwoollen and linen. Nothing must be wanting when you are the mole'swife."Tiny had to turn the spindle, and the field mouse hired fourspiders, who were to weave day and night. Every evening the molevisited her, and was continually speaking of the time when thesummer would be over. Then he would keep his wedding day with Tiny.but now the heat of the sun was so great that it burned the earth, andmade it quite hard, like a stone. As soon, as the summer was over, thewedding should take place. But Tiny was not at all pleased. for shedid not like the tiresome mole. Every morning when the sun rose, andevery evening when it went down, she would creep out at the door,and as the wind blew aside the ears of corn, so that she could see theblue sky, she thought how beautiful and bright it seemed out there,and wished so much to see her dear swallow again. But he neverreturned. for by this time he had flown far away into the lovely greenforest.When autumn arrived, Tiny had her outfit quite ready. and thefield mouse said to her, "In four weeks the wedding must take place."Then Tiny wept, and said she would not marry the disagreeablemole."Nonsense," replied the field mouse. "Now don't be obstinate, or Ishall bite you with my white teeth. He is a very handsome mole. thequeen herself does not wear more beautiful velvets and furs. Hiskitchen and cellars are quite full. You ought to be very thankfulfor such good fortune."So the wedding day was fixed, on which the mole was to fetchTiny away to live with him, deep under the earth, and never again tosee the warm sun, because he did not like it. The poor child wasvery unhappy at the thought of saying farewell to the beautiful sun,and as the field mouse had given her permission to stand at thedoor, she went to look at it once more."Farewell bright sun," she cried, stretching out her arm towardsit. and then she walked a short distance from the house. for thecorn had been cut, and only the dry stubble remained in the fields."Farewell, farewell," she repeated, twining her arm round a little redflower that grew just by her side. "Greet the little swallow fromme, if you should see him again.""Tweet, tweet," sounded over her head suddenly. She looked up, andthere was the swallow himself flying close by. As soon as he spiedTiny, he was delighted. and then she told him how unwilling she feltto marry the ugly mole, and to live always beneath the earth, andnever to see the bright sun any more. And as she told him she wept."Cold winter is coming," said the swallow, "and I am going tofly away into warmer countries. Will you go with me? You can sit on myback, and fasten yourself on with your sash. Then we can fly away fromthe ugly mole and his gloomy rooms, far away, over the mountains,into warmer countries, where the sun shines more brightly thanhere. where it is always summer, and the flowers bloom in greaterbeauty. Fly now with me, dear little Tiny. you saved my life when Ilay frozen in that dark passage.""Yes, I will go with you," said Tiny. and she seated herself onthe bird's back, with her feet on his outstretched wings, and tied hergirdle to one of his strongest feathers.Then the swallow rose in the air, and flew over forest and oversea, high above the highest mountains, covered with eternal snow. Tinywould have been frozen in the cold air, but she crept under the bird'swarm feathers, keeping her little head uncovered, so that she mightadmire the beautiful lands over which they passed. At length theyreached the warm countries, where the sun shines brightly, and the skyseems so much higher above the earth. Here, on the hedges, and bythe wayside, grew purple, green, and white grapes. lemons andoranges hung from trees in the woods. and the air was fragrant withmyrtles and orange blossoms. Beautiful children ran along thecountry lanes, playing with large gay butterflies. and as theswallow flew farther and farther, every place appeared still morelovely.At last they came to a blue lake, and by the side of it, shaded bytrees of the deepest green, stood a palace of dazzling white marble,built in the olden times. Vines clustered round its lofty pillars, andat the top were many swallows' nests, and one of these was the home ofthe swallow who carried Tiny."This is my house," said the swallow. "but it would not do for youto live there you would not be comfortable. You must choose foryourself one of those lovely flowers, and I will put you down upon it,and then you shall have everything that you can wish to make youhappy.""That will be delightful," she said, and clapped her littlehands for joy.A large marble pillar lay on the ground, which, in falling, hadbeen broken into three pieces. Between these pieces grew the mostbeautiful large white flowers. so the swallow flew down with Tiny, andplaced her on one of the broad leaves. But how surprised she was tosee in the middle of the flower, a tiny little man, as white andtransparent as if he had been made of crystal! He had a gold crownon his head, and delicate wings at his shoulders, and was not muchlarger than Tiny herself. He was the angel of the flower. for a tinyman and a tiny woman dwell in every flower. and this was the king ofthem all."Oh, how beautiful he is!" whispered Tiny to the swallow.The little prince was at first quite frightened at the bird, whowas like a giant, compared to such a delicate little creature ashimself. but when he saw Tiny, he was delighted, and thought her theprettiest little maiden he had ever seen. He took the gold crownfrom his head, and placed it on hers, and asked her name, and if shewould be his wife, and queen over all the flowers.This certainly was a very different sort of husband to the sonof a toad, or the mole, with my black velvet and fur. so she said,"Yes," to the handsome prince. Then all the flowers opened, and out ofeach came a little lady or a tiny lord, all so pretty it was quite apleasure to look at them. Each of them brought Tiny a present. but thebest gift was a pair of beautiful wings, which had belonged to a largewhite fly and they fastened them to Tiny's shoulders, so that shemight fly from flower to flower. Then there was much rejoicing, andthe little swallow who sat above them, in his nest, was asked tosing a wedding song, which he did as well as he could. but in hisheart he felt sad for he was very fond of Tiny, and would have likednever to part from her again."You must not be called Tiny any more," said the spirit of theflowers to her. "It is an ugly name, and you are so very pretty. Wewill call you Maia.""Farewell, farewell," said the swallow, with a heavy heart as heleft the warm countries to fly back into Denmark. There he had anest over the window of a house in which dwelt the writer of fairytales. The swallow sang, "Tweet, tweet," and from his song came thewhole story.