Once there was an old woman who had a granddaughter named Little Red Hat.One day they were both in the field when the old woman said, "I am goinghome now. You come along later and bring me some soup."After a while Little Red Hat set out for her grandmother's house, andshe met an ogre, who said, "Hello, my dear Little Red Hat. Where are yougoing?""I am going to my grandmother's to take her some soup.""Good," he replied, "I'll come along too. Are you going across thestones or the thorns?""I'm going across the stones," said the girl."Then I'll go across the thorns," replied the ogre.They left. But on the way Little Red Hat came to a meadow wherebeautiful flowers of all colors were in bloom, and the girl picked as manyas her heart desired. Meanwhile the ogre hurried on his way, and althoughhe had to cross the thorns, he arrived at the house before Little Red Hat.He went inside, killed the grandmother, ate her up, and climbed into herbed. He also tied her intestine onto the door in place of the latch stringand placed her blood, teeth, and jaws in the kitchen cupboard.He had barely climbed into bed when Little Red Hat arrived and knockedat the door."Come in" called the ogre with a dampened voice.Little Red Hat tried to open the door, but when she noticed that shewas pulling on something soft, she called out, "Grandmother, this thing isso soft!""Just pull and keep quiet. It is your grandmother's intestine!""What did you say?""Just pull and keep quiet!"Little Red Hat opened the door, went inside, and said, "Grandmother, Iam hungry."The ogre replied, "Go to the kitchen cupboard. There is still a littlerice there."Little Red Hat went to the cupboard and took the teeth out."Grandmother, these things are very hard!""Eat and keep quiet. They are your grandmother's teeth!""What did you say?""Eat and keep quiet!"A little while later Little Red Hat said, "Grandmother, I'm stillhungry.""Go back to the cupboard," said the ogre. "You will find two pieces ofchopped meat there."Little Red Hat went to the cupboard and took out the jaws."Grandmother, this is very red!""Eat and keep quiet. They are your grandmother's jaws!""What did you say?""Eat and keep quiet!"A little while later Little Red Hat said, "Grandmother, I'm thirsty.""Just look in the cupboard," said the ogre. "There must be a littlewine there."Little Red Hat went to the cupboard and took out the blood."Grandmother, this wine is very red!""Drink and keep quiet. It is your grandmother's blood!"What did you say?""Just drink and keep quiet!"A little while later Little Red Hat said, "Grandmother, I'm sleepy.""Take off your clothes and get into bed with me!" replied the ogre.Little Red Hat got into bed and noticed something hairy. "Grandmother,you are so hairy!""That comes with age," said the ogre."Grandmother, you have such long legs!""That comes from walking.""Grandmother, you have such long hands!""That comes from working.""Grandmother, you have such long ears!""That comes from listening.""Grandmother, you have such a big mouth!""That comes from eating children!" said the ogre, and bam, he swallowedLittle Red Hat with one gulp.