Once upon a time there lived a woodcutter and his wife. they hadsevenchildren, all boys. The eldest was but ten years old, and theyoungestonly seven. People were astonished that the woodcutter had had somanychildren in such a short time, but his wife was very fond ofchildren, andnever had less than two at a timeThey were very poor, and their seven children inconvenienced themgreatly,because not one of them was able to earn his own way. They wereespeciallyconcerned, because the youngest was very sickly. He scarcely everspoke aword, which they considered to be a sign of stupidity, although itwas intruth a mark of good sense. He was very little, and when born nobiggerthan one's thumb, for which reason they called him Little Thumb.The poor child bore the blame of everything that went wrong in thehouse.Guilty or not, he was always held to be at fault. He was,notwithstanding,more cunning and had a far greater share of wisdom than all hisbrothersput together. And although he spoke little, he listened well.There came a very bad year, and the famine was so great that thesepoorpeople decided to rid themselves of their children. One evening,when thechildren were all in bed and the woodcutter was sitting with hiswife atthe fire, he said to her, with his heart ready to burst withgrief, "Yousee plainly that we are not able to keep our children, and Icannot seethem starve to death before my face. I am resolved to lose them inthewoods tomorrow, which may very easily be done. for, while they arebusy intying up the bundles of wood, we can leave them, without theirnoticing.""Ah!" cried out his wife. "and can you yourself have the heart totakeyour children out along with you on purpose to abandon them?"In vain her husband reminded her of their extreme poverty. Shewould notconsent to it. Yes, she was poor, but she was their mother.However, afterhaving considered what a grief it would be for her to see themperish withhunger, she at last consented, and went to bed in tears.Little Thumb heard every word that had been spoken. for observing,as helay in his bed, that they were talking very busily, he got upsoftly, andhid under his father's stool, in order to hear what they weresayingwithout being seen. He went to bed again, but did not sleep a winkall therest of the night, thinking about what he had to do. He got upearly inthe morning, and went to the riverside, where he filled hispockets withsmall white pebbles, and then returned home.They all went out, but Little Thumb never told his brothers onesyllableof what he knew. They went into a very thick forest, where theycould notsee one another at ten paces distance. The woodcutter began hiswork, andthe children gathered up the sticks into bundles. Their father andmother,seeing them busy at their work, slipped away from them withoutbeing seen,and returned home along a byway through the bushes.When the children saw they had been left alone, they began to cryasloudly as they could. Little Thumb let them cry, knowing very wellhow toget home again, for he had dropped the little white pebbles allalong theway. Then he said to them, "Don't be afraid, brothers. Father andmotherhave left us here, but I will lead you home again. Just followme."They did so, and he took them home by the very same way they hadcome intothe forest. They dared not go in, but sat down at the door,listening towhat their father and mother were saying.The woodcutter and his wife had just arrived home, when the lordof themanor sent them ten crowns, which he had owed them a long while,and whichthey never expected. This gave them new life, for the poor peoplewerealmost famished. The woodcutter sent his wife immediately to thebutcher's. As it had been a long while since they had eaten, sheboughtthree times as much meat as would be needed for two people.When they had eaten, the woman said, "Alas! Where are our poorchildrennow? They would make a good feast of what we have left here. butit wasyou, William, who decided to abandon them. I told you that wewould besorry for it. What are they now doing in the forest? Alas, dearGod, thewolves have perhaps already eaten them up. You are very inhuman tohaveabandoned your children in this way."The woodcutter at last lost his patience, for she repeated it morethantwenty times, that they would be sorry for it, and that she wasright forhaving said so. He threatened to beat her if she did not hold hertongue.It was not that the woodcutter was less upset than his wife, butthat shewas nagging him. He, like many others, was of the opinion thatwivesshould say the right thing, but that they should not do so toooften.She nearly drowned herself in tears, crying out, "Alas! Where arenow mychildren, my poor children?"She spoke this so very loud that the children, who were at thegate, beganto cry out all together, "Here we are! Here we are!"She immediately ran to open the door, and said, hugging them, "Iam soglad to see you, my dear children. you are very hungry and tired.And mypoor Peter, you are horribly dirty. come in and let me clean you."Now, you must know that Peter was her eldest son, whom she lovedabove allthe rest, because he had red hair, as she herself did.They sat down to supper and ate with a good appetite, whichpleased bothfather and mother. They told them how frightened they had been intheforest, speaking almost always all together. The parents wereextremelyglad to see their children once more at home, and this joycontinued whilethe ten crowns lasted. but, when the money was all gone, they fellagaininto their former uneasiness, and decided to abandon them again.This timethey resolved to take them much deeper into the forest thanbefore.Although they tried to talk secretly about it, again they wereoverheardby Little Thumb, who made plans to get out of this difficulty aswell ashe had the last time. However, even though he got up very early inthemorning to go and pick up some little pebbles, he could not do so,for hefound the door securely bolted and locked. Their father gave eachof thema piece of bread for their breakfast, and he fancied he might makeuse ofthis instead of the pebbles, by throwing it in little bits allalong theway. and so he put it into his pocket.Their father and mother took them into the thickest and mostobscure partof the forest, then, slipping away by an obscure path, they leftthemthere. Little Thumb was not concerned, for he thought he couldeasily findthe way again by means of his bread, which he had scattered alongthe way.but he was very much surprised when he could not find so much asonecrumb. The birds had come and had eaten every bit of it up. Theywere nowin great distress, for the farther they went the more lost andbewilderedthey became.Night now came on, and there arose a terrible high wind, whichmade themdreadfully afraid. They fancied they heard on every side of themthehowling of wolves coming to eat them up. They scarcely dared tospeak orturn their heads. After this, it rained very hard, which drenchedthem tothe skin. their feet slipped at every step they took, and theyfell intothe mire, getting them muddy all over. Their hands were numb withcold.Little Thumb climbed to the top of a tree, to see if he coulddiscoveranything. Turning his head in every direction, he saw at last aglimmeringlight, like that of a candle, but a long way from the forest. Hecamedown, but from the ground, he could no longer see it no more,whichconcerned him greatly. However, after walking for some time withhisbrothers in the direction where he had seen the light, heperceived itagain as he came out of the woods.They came at last to the house where this candle was, but notwithout manyfearful moments, for every time they walked down into a hollowthey lostsight of it. They knocked at the door, and a good woman opened it.Sheasked them what they wanted.Little Thumb told her they were poor children who had been lost intheforest, and begged her, for God's sake, to give them lodging.The woman, seeing that they were good looking children, began toweep, andsaid to them, "Alas, poor babies, where are you from? Do you knowthatthis house belongs to a cruel ogre who eats up little children?""Ah! dear madam," answered Little Thumb (who, as well as hisbrothers, wastrembling all over), "what shall we do? If you refuse to let ussleep herethen the wolves of the forest surely will devour us tonight. Wewouldprefer the gentleman to eat us, but perhaps he would take pityupon us,especially if you would beg him to."The ogre's wife, who believed she could hide them from her husbanduntilmorning, let them come in, and had them to warm themselves at avery goodfire. There was a whole sheep on the spit, roasting for the ogre'ssupper.After they warmed up a little, they heard three or four great rapsat thedoor. This was the ogre, who was come home. Hearing him, she hidthemunder the bed and opened the door. The ogre immediately asked ifsupperwas ready and the wine drawn, and then sat down at the table. Thesheepwas still raw and bloody, but he preferred it that way. He sniffedaboutto the right and left, saying, "I smell fresh meat."His wife said, "You can smell the calf which I have just nowkilled andflayed.""I smell fresh meat, I tell you once more," replied the ogre,lookingcrossly at his wife, "and there is something here which I do notunderstand."As he spoke these words he got up from the table and went directlyto thebed. "Ah, hah!" he said. "I see then how you would cheat me, youcursedwoman. I don't know why I don't eat you as well. It is fortunatefor youthat you are tough old carrion. But here is good game, which hasluckilyarrived just in time to serve to three ogre friends who are cominghere tovisit in a day or two."With that he dragged them out from under the bed, one by one. Thepoorchildren fell upon their knees, and begged his pardon. but theyweredealing with one of the cruelest ogres in the world. Far fromhaving anypity on them, he had already devoured them with his eyes. He toldhis wifethat they would be delicate eating with good savory sauce. He thentook alarge knife, and, approaching the poor children, sharpened it on alargewhetstone which he held in his left hand.He had already taken hold of one of them when his wife said tohim, "Whydo it now? Is it not tomorrow soon enough?""Hold your chatter," said the ogre. "they will be more tender, ifI killthem now.""But you have so much meat already," replied his wife. "You haveno needfor more. Here are a calf, two sheep, and half a hog.""That is true," said the ogre. "Feed them so they don't get toothin, andput them to bed."The good woman was overjoyed at this, and offered them a goodsupper, butthey were so afraid that they could not eat a bit. As for theogre, he satdown to drink, being highly pleased that now had something specialtotreat his friends. He drank a dozen glasses more than ordinary,which wentto his head and made him sleepy.The ogre had seven little daughters. These young ogresses all hadveryfine complexions, because they ate fresh meat like their father.but theyhad little gray eyes, quite round, hooked noses, and very longsharpteeth, well spaced from each other. As yet they were not overlymischievous, but they showed great promise for it, for they hadalreadybitten little children in order to suck their blood.They had been put to bed early, all seven in a large bed, and eachof themwearing a crown of gold on her head. The ogre's wife gave theseven littleboys a bed just as large and in the same room, then she went tobed to herhusband.Little Thumb, who had observed that the ogre's daughters hadcrowns ofgold upon their heads, and was afraid lest the ogre should changehis mindabout not killing them, got up about midnight, and, taking hisbrothers'caps and his own, went very softly and put them on the heads ofthe sevenlittle ogresses, after having taken off their crowns of gold,which he puton his own head and his brothers', that the ogre might take themfor hisdaughters, and his daughters for the little boys whom he wanted tokill.All of this happened according to his plan for, the ogre awakenedaboutmidnight and, regretting that he had put off until morning thatwhich hemight have done tonight, he hastily got out of bed and picked uphis largeknife. "Let us see," he said, "how our little rogues are doing!We'll notmake that mistake a second time!"He then went, groping all the way, into his daughters' room. Hecame tothe bed where the little boys lay. They were all fast asleepexcept LittleThumb, who was terribly afraid when he felt the ogre feeling abouthishead, as he had done about his brothers'. Feeling the goldencrowns, theogre said, "That would have been a terrible mistake. Truly, I diddrinktoo much last night."Then he went to the bed where the girls lay. Finding the boys'caps onthem, he said, "Ah, hah, my merry lads, here you are. Let us getto work."So saying, and without further ado, he cut all seven of hisdaughters'throats. Well pleased with what he had done, he went to bed againto hiswife.As soon as Little Thumb heard the ogre snore, he wakened hisbrothers andtold them to put on their clothes immediately and to follow him.Theystole softly down into the garden, and climbed over the wall. Theykeptrunning nearly the whole night, trembling all the while, and notknowingwhich way they were going.The ogre, when he awoke, said to his wife, "Go upstairs and dressthoseyoung rascals who came here last night."The ogress was very much surprised at this goodness of herhusband, notdreaming how he intended that she should dress them, thinking thathe hadordered her to go and put their clothes on them, she went up, andwashorribly astonished when she saw her seven daughters with theirthroatscut and lying in their own blood.She fainted away, for this is the first expedient almost all womenfind insuch cases. The ogre, fearing his wife would be too long in doingwhat hehad ordered, went up himself to help her. He was no less amazedthan hiswife at this frightful spectacle."What have I done?" he cried. "Those wretches shall soon pay forthis!" Hethrew a pitcher of water on his wife's face, and, having broughther toherself, cried, "Bring me my seven league boots at once, so that Icancatch them."He went out, and ran this way and that over a vast amount ofground. Atlast he came to the very road where the poor children were, andnot morethan a hundred paces from their father's house. They saw the ogrecoming,who was stepping from mountain to mountain, and crossing overrivers aseasily as if they were little streams. Little Thumb hid himselfand hisbrothers in a nearby hollow rock, all the while keeping watch onthe ogre.The ogre was very tired from his long and fruitless journey (forseven league boots are very tiring to wear), and decided to take arest.By chance he sat on the rock where the little boys had hidthemselves. Hewas so tired that he fell asleep, and began to snore sofrightfully thatthe poor children were no less afraid of him than when he had heldup hislarge knife and was about to cut their throats. However, LittleThumb wasnot as frightened as his brothers were, and told them that theyimmediately should run away towards home while the ogre was asleepsosoundly, and that they should not worry about him. They took hisadvice,and soon reached home. Little Thumb came up to the ogre, pulledoff hisboots gently and put them on his own feet. The boots were verylong andlarge, but because they were enchanted, they became big or littleto fitthe person who was wearing them. So they fit his feet and legs aswell asif they had been custom made for him. He immediately went to theogre'shouse, where he saw his wife crying bitterly for the loss of hermurdereddaughters."Your husband," said Little Thumb, "is in very great danger. Hehas beencaptured by a gang of thieves, who have sworn to kill him if hedoes notgive them all his gold and silver. At the very moment they wereholdingtheir daggers to his throat he saw me, and begged me to come andtell youthe condition he is in. You should give me everything he has ofvalue,without keeping back anything at all, for otherwise they will killhimwithout mercy. Because his case is so very urgent, he lent me hisboots(you see I have them on), that I might make the more haste and toshow youthat he himself has sent me to you."The good woman, being sadly frightened, gave him all she had, foralthoughthis ogre ate up little children, he was a good husband. ThusLittle Thumbgot all the ogre' s money. He returned with it to his father'shouse,where he was received with great joy.There are many people who do not agree with this last detail. Theyclaimthat Little Thumb never robbed the ogre at all, that he only madeoff withthe seven league boots, and that with a good conscience, becausetheogre's only use of them was to pursue little children. These folksaffirmthat they are quite sure of this, because they have often drunkand eatenat the woodcutter's house.These people claim that after taking off the ogre's boots, LittleThumbwent to court, where he learned that there was much concern abouttheoutcome of a certain battle and the condition of a certain army,which wastwo hundred leagues off. They say that he went to the king, andtold himthat, if he desired it, he would bring him news from the armybeforenight. The king promised him a great sum of money if he could doso.Little Thumb was as good as his word, and returned that very samenightwith the news. This first feat brought him great fame, and hecould thenname his own price. Not only did the king pay him very well forcarryinghis orders to the army, but the ladies of the court paid himhandsomely tobring them information about their lovers. Occasionally wives gavehimletters for their husbands, but they paid so poorly, that he didnot evenbother to keep track of the money he made in this branch of hisbusiness.After serving as a messenger for some time and thus acquiringgreatwealth, he went home to his father, where he was received withinexpressible joy. He made the whole family very comfortable,boughtpositions for his father and brothers, all the while handsomelylookingafter himself as well.Moral:It is no affliction to have many children, if they all aregoodlooking, courteous, and strong, but if one is sickly orslow witted, hewill be scorned, ridiculed, and despised. However, it is often thelittleurchin who brings good fortune to the entire family.