There was once a merchant who had three daughters. The two older oneswere proud and haughty. The younger one, however, was well behaved andmodest, although her beauty greatly surpassed that of her sisters. Shedressed simply, and thus unconsciously enhanced her beauty more than hersisters were able to do with the most expensive clothing and jewelry.Nettchen, that was the name of the merchant's youngest daughter, had adear girlfriend who was very poor, but equally beautiful and virtuous. Shewas a broom binder's daughter, and was for this reason was called LittleBroomstick by young and old alike. Both girls were of one heart and onesoul. They entrusted one another with their little secrets, and betweenthem all class distinctions fell by the wayside. This angered the oldersisters greatly, but Nettchen let them scold, and loved her LittleBroomstick nonetheless.Once the merchant was planning a long journey, although the season wasalready very advanced. He asked his daughters if they had a wish as towhat he should bring home to them.The oldest one said, "Bring me a golden necklace!"The second, "Bring me a pair of earrings that are so beautiful that allwomen be envious of me because of them!"The youngest said that she had no wish, because her father, in hisgoodness, had already given her everything. But the merchant insisted, soshe answered with a smile, "Then bring me three roses growing on onestem."She was convinced that her father would not be able to find such apresent in the middle of winter. He kissed her for her modesty and setforth on his journey.He was on his way home when he remembered the presents that he wassupposed to get for his daughters. He soon found a golden necklace and apair of splendid earrings, but not so the three roses for Nettchen. Thefather had just decided to buy some other valuable present for hisdarling, when suddenly   to his surprise   he came upon a green area. Hestepped through a wide gateway and found himself in a large, blossominggarden adjacent to a splendid castle. Outside everything was covered withsnow, but in the garden the trees were in blossom, nightingales weresinging in the bushes, and finally he even saw a blossoming rosebush, andon one of its branches were three of the most beautiful half open buds.Elated, he thought that now he would be able to fulfill Nettchen's wish,and he broke off the branch.He had scarcely done so when an enormous beast with a long ugly snout,ears hanging down, and a shaggy coat and tail appeared before him and laidhis long sharp claws on his shoulder. The merchant was deathly frightened,and even worse when the beast began to speak, threatening him with deathfor his misdeed.The merchant begged, telling him why he wanted the roses, whereupon thebeast answered, "Your youngest daughter must be a true pearl of her sex.Very well, if you will promise to give her to me as a wife in sevenmonths, then you shall live and return to your people."As terrified as the merchant was at this proposal, his fearnevertheless led him to make the promise, thinking that he would be ableto trick the monster.The merchant returned to his people and distributed the presents.However, he was sad and melancholy, and they noticed that he was carryinga great burden in his heart. Nettchen asked him to tell her what wastroubling him, but he only gave her excuses. He told the secret only tothe two older daughters, who wickedly took pleasure in the situation.So that the father could keep his eyes on her, Nettchen was almostnever allowed to leave the house. Only Little Broomstick came to visit herfrom time to time.One day   the seventh month had just passed   she and LittleBroomstick were again together when a carriage stopped before the house. Aservant, gesturing silently, handed a note to the merchant. On it werewritten the words, "Fulfill your promise!"The merchant was terrified, but he collected himself and asked LittleBroomstick to come to him. The girl came, expecting nothing bad. Themerchant pointed at her. She was lifted into the carriage, and away theywent in a thundering gallop.However, the beast recognized the deception as soon as LittleBroomstick was brought before him, and he ordered the girl to go homeimmediately and bring back the right one. The carriage stopped againbefore the merchant's house, and when Little Broomstick stepped out,Nettchen fell around her neck with friendly greetings. But then she waspicked up and shoved into the carriage, which drove away with its booty asfast as an arrow.Nettchen was very frightened, but she soon collected herself. Insidethe strange, beautiful castle she was received with honor, although withsilent gestures, and she no longer felt concerned. Silent servants broughther the most delicious things to eat and showed her to a bedroom, where ablinding white canopy bed invited her to rest. After saying her prayers,she surrendered to the arms of sleep.When she awoke she saw to her fright that a disgusting shaggy monsterlay next to her. But it was lying there still and quiet, so she left italone. Then it left, and she had time to think about her adventure.The ugly beast gradually became her sleeping companion, and she grewless and less afraid of him. He cuddled up to her, and she stroked hisshaggy coat and even allowed him to touch her lips with his long, coldsnout. This had gone on for four weeks when one night the beast did notcome to her. Nettchen could not sleep for worry and concern about whatmight have happened to the beast, whom she had become quite fond of.The next morning she was walking in the garden when she saw the beastlying all stretched out on the bank of a pond that served as a bath. Hedid not move a limb and showed every sign of being dead. A bitter painpenetrated her breast, and she cried over the death of the poor beast. Buther tears had scarcely started to flow when the monster was transformedinto a handsome youth.He stood up before her, pressed her hand to his breast, and said, "Youhave redeemed me from a terrible curse. My father wanted me to marry awoman whom I did not love. I refused steadfastly, and in his anger, myfather had a sorceress transform me into a monster. The transformation wasto last until an innocent virgin would fall in love with me in spite of myugly form, and would cry tears on my behalf. You with your heart of anangel have done just that, and I cannot thank you enough. If you willbecome my wife, I will repay with love what you have done for me."Nettchen extended him her hand, and they were married. Then the deathlyquiet castle awoke in a hustle and bustle. Joy ruled everywhere, and thenewlyweds lived in bliss.Now the young wife had been given the requirement that she not returnto her father's house for one year. However, she obtained a mirror inwhich she could see everything that was happening in her family circle.Nettchen looked into the mirror often, and she saw her father in hissorrow, although her sisters were cheerful and gay. She observed LittleBroomstick as well, and how she mourned for her lost girlfriend. She didnot look into the mirror for some time, and when she returned to it, shesaw her father on his deathbed and her sisters in the next room makingmerry with their friends.This saddened the good sister, and she confided her sorrow with herhusband. He comforted her, saying, "Your father will not die. In my gardenthere is a plant whose sap can call back the fleeing life spirits. Theyear is nearly over. Then we will fetch your father, and you will not haveto be separated from him any longer."Nettchen was pleased with this, and as soon as the year had passed, thehusband and wife and their magnificent entourage journeyed to Nettchen'shome city. The two older sisters nearly burst with envy and anger, whilethe father's joy brought back his health, so that evil turned to good. Thesap restored his full strength and wellbeing. Little Broomstick too wasoverjoyed, and Nettchen was her old girlfriend once again. She and themerchant accompanied them back to the prince's castle.Nettchen had a forgiving heart, and however much she had been hurt byher sisters, she wanted to share her good fortune with them. Therefore sheinvited them to visit her, and showed them all her wealth. However, thesplendor angered the sisters, and they resolved to kill their happysister. Once when they were in the bath, they forced Nettchen under thewater, and she drowned.They had scarcely done this when a tall female figure rose up beforethem and glared at them with angry eyes. She touched the dead woman with awand, and she came back to life. "I am the sorceress who once transformedthe prince," said the tall figure. I have noted your good heart and takenyou under my protection. These miserable ones killed you. Now I leavetheir fate in your hands!"Nettchen begged for mercy for them, but the sorceress shook her headand said, "They must die, for you will never be safe from their malice,and as soon as they have been punished, my power will cease.""Then do with them what you will!" sobbed Nettchen."Let them be transformed into columns and remain such until a man fallsin love with them, and that will never happen."She touched the sisters with her hand, and they were immediatelytransformed into two stone columns, which to this day are still standingin the garden of the splendid castle, for it has not yet occurred to anyman that he should fall in love with cold, heartless stones.The good Little Broomstick remained Nettchen's most faithfulgirlfriend. She still shares her good fortune with her, if in the meantimethe two of them have not died.