Once upon a time there lived in a certain village a little country girl,the prettiest creature who was ever seen. Her mother was excessively fondof her. and her grandmother doted on her still more. This good woman had alittle red riding hood made for her. It suited the girl so extremely wellthat everybody called her Little Red Riding Hood.One day her mother, having made some cakes, said to her, "Go, my dear,and see how your grandmother is doing, for I hear she has been very ill.Take her a cake, and this little pot of butter."Little Red Riding Hood set out immediately to go to her grandmother,who lived in another village.As she was going through the wood, she met with a wolf, who had a verygreat mind to eat her up, but he dared not, because of some woodcuttersworking nearby in the forest. He asked her where she was going. The poorchild, who did not know that it was dangerous to stay and talk to a wolf,said to him, "I am going to see my grandmother and carry her a cake and alittle pot of butter from my mother.""Does she live far off?" said the wolf"Oh I say," answered Little Red Riding Hood. "it is beyond that millyou see there, at the first house in the village.""Well," said the wolf, "and I'll go and see her too. I'll go this wayand go you that, and we shall see who will be there first."The wolf ran as fast as he could, taking the shortest path, and thelittle girl took a roundabout way, entertaining herself by gathering nuts,running after butterflies, and gathering bouquets of little flowers. Itwas not long before the wolf arrived at the old woman's house. He knockedat the door: tap, tap."Who's there?""Your grandchild, Little Red Riding Hood," replied the wolf,counterfeiting her voice. "who has brought you a cake and a little pot ofbutter sent you by mother."The good grandmother, who was in bed, because she was somewhat ill,cried out, "Pull the bobbin, and the latch will go up."The wolf pulled the bobbin, and the door opened, and then heimmediately fell upon the good woman and ate her up in a moment, for itbeen more than three days since he had eaten. He then shut the door andgot into the grandmother's bed, expecting Little Red Riding Hood, who camesome time afterwards and knocked at the door: tap, tap."Who's there?"Little Red Riding Hood, hearing the big voice of the wolf, was at firstafraid. but believing her grandmother had a cold and was hoarse, answered,"It is your grandchild Little Red Riding Hood, who has brought you a cakeand a little pot of butter mother sends you."The wolf cried out to her, softening his voice as much as he could,"Pull the bobbin, and the latch will go up."Little Red Riding Hood pulled the bobbin, and the door opened.The wolf, seeing her come in, said to her, hiding himself under thebedclothes, "Put the cake and the little pot of butter upon the stool, andcome get into bed with me."Little Red Riding Hood took off her clothes and got into bed. She wasgreatly amazed to see how her grandmother looked in her nightclothes, andsaid to her, "Grandmother, what big arms you have!""All the better to hug you with, my dear.""Grandmother, what big legs you have!""All the better to run with, my child.""Grandmother, what big ears you have!""All the better to hear with, my child.""Grandmother, what big eyes you have!""All the better to see with, my child.""Grandmother, what big teeth you have got!""All the better to eat you up with."And, saying these words, this wicked wolf fell upon Little Red RidingHood, and ate her all up.Moral: Children, especially attractive, well bred youngladies, should never talk to strangers, for if they should do so, they maywell provide dinner for a wolf. I say "wolf," but there are various kindsof wolves. There are also those who are charming, quiet, polite,unassuming, complacent, and sweet, who pursue young women at home and inthe streets. And unfortunately, it is these gentle wolves who are the mostdangerous ones of all.