Once upon a time in mid winter, when the snowflakes were falling likefeathers from heaven, a beautiful queen sat sewing at her window, whichhad a frame of black ebony wood. As she sewed, she looked up at the snowand pricked her finger with her needle. Three drops of blood fell into thesnow. The red on the white looked so beautiful, that she thought, "If onlyI had a child as white as snow, as red as blood, and as black as thisframe." Soon afterward she had a little daughter that was as white assnow, as red as blood, and as black as ebony wood, and therefore theycalled her Little Snow White.Now the queen was the most beautiful woman in all the land, and veryproud of her beauty. She had a mirror, which she stood in front of everymorning, and asked:Mirror, mirror, on the wall,Who in this land is fairest of all?And the mirror always said:You, my queen, are fairest of all.And then she knew for certain that no one in the world was morebeautiful than she.Now Snow White grew up, and when she was seven years old, she was sobeautiful, that she surpassed even the queen herself. Now when the queenasked her mirror:Mirror, mirror, on the wall,Who in this land is fairest of all?The mirror said:You, my queen, are fair. it is true.But Little Snow White is stillA thousand times fairer than you.When the queen heard the mirror say this, she became pale with envy,and from that hour on, she hated Snow White. Whenever she looked at her,she thought that Snow White was to blame that she was no longer the mostbeautiful woman in the world. This turned her heart around. Her jealousygave her no peace. Finally she summoned a huntsman and said to him, "TakeSnow White out into the woods to a remote spot, and stab her to death. Asproof that she is dead bring her lungs and her liver back to me. I shallcook them with salt and eat them."The huntsman took Snow White into the woods. When he took out hishunting knife to stab her, she began to cry, and begged fervently that hemight spare her life, promising to run away into the woods and neverreturn. The huntsman took pity on her because she was so beautiful, and hethought, "The wild animals will soon devour her anyway. I'm glad that Idon't have to kill her." Just then a young boar came running by. He killedit, cut out its lungs and liver, and took them back to the queen as proofof Snow White's death. She cooked them with salt and ate them, supposingthat she had eaten Snow White's lungs and liver.Snow White was now all alone in the great forest. She was terriblyafraid, and began to run. She ran over sharp stones and through thorns theentire day. Finally, just as the sun was about to set, she came to alittle house. The house belonged to seven dwarfs. They were working in amine, and not at home. Snow White went inside and found everything to besmall, but neat and orderly. There was a little table with seven littleplates, seven little spoons, seven little knives and forks, seven littlemugs, and against the wall there were seven little beds, all freshly made.Snow White was hungry and thirsty, so she ate a few vegetables and alittle bread from each little plate, and from each little glass she dranka drop of wine. Because she was so tired, she wanted to lie down and go tosleep. She tried each of the seven little beds, one after the other, butnone felt right until she came to the seventh one, and she lay down in itand fell asleep.When night came, the seven dwarfs returned home from the work. They littheir seven little candles, and saw that someone had been in their house.The first one said, "Who has been sitting in my chair?"The second one, "Who has been eating from my plate?"The third one, "Who has been eating my bread?"The fourth one, "Who has been eating my vegetables?"The fifth one, "Who has been sticking with my fork?"The sixth one, "Who has been cutting with my knife?"The seventh one, "Who has been drinking from my mug?"Then the first one said, "Who stepped on my bed?"The second one, "And someone has been lying in my bed."And so forth until the seventh one, and when he looked at his bed, hefound Snow White lying there, fast asleep. The seven dwarfs all camerunning, and they cried out with amazement. They fetched their sevencandles and looked at Snow White. "Good heaven! Good heaven!" they cried."She is sobeautiful!" They liked her very much. They did not wake her up, but lether lie there in the bed. The seventh dwarf had to sleep with hiscompanions, one hour with each one, and then the night was done.When Snow White woke up, they asked her who she was and how she hadfound her way to their house. She told them how her mother had tried tokill her, how the huntsman had spared her life, how she had run the entireday, finally coming to their house. The dwarfs pitied her and said, "Ifyou will keep house for us, and cook, sew, make beds, wash, and knit, andkeep everything clean and orderly, then you can stay here, and you'll haveeverything that you want. We come home in the evening, and supper must beready by then, but we spend the days digging for gold in the mine. Youwill be alone then. Watch out for the queen, and do not let anyone in."The queen thought that she was again the most beautiful woman in theland, and the next morning she stepped before the mirror and asked:Mirror, mirror, on the wall,Who in this land is fairest of all?The mirror answered once again:You, my queen, are fair. it is true.But Little Snow White beyond the seven mountainsIs a thousand times fairer than you.It startled the queen to hear this, and she knew that she had beendeceived, that the huntsman had not killed Snow White. Because only theseven dwarfs lived in the seven mountains, she knew at once that they musthave rescued her. She began to plan immediately how she might kill her,because she would have no peace until the mirror once again said that shewas the most beautiful woman in the land. At last she thought of somethingto do. She disguised herself as an old peddler woman and colored her face,so that no one would recognize her, and went to the dwarf's house.Knocking on the door she called out, "Open up. Open up. I'm the oldpeddler woman with good wares for sale."Snow White peered out the window, "What do you have?""Bodice laces, dear child," said the old woman, and held one up. It wasbraided from yellow, red, and blue silk. "Would you like this one?""Oh, yes," said Snow White, thinking, "I can let the old woman come in.She means well." She unbolted the door and bargained for the bodice laces."You are not laced up properly," said the old woman. "Come here, I'lldo it better." Snow White stood before her, and she took hold of the lacesand pulled them so tight that Snow White could not breathe, and she felldown as if she were dead. Then the old woman was satisfied, and she wentaway.Nightfall soon came, and the seven dwarfs returned home. They werehorrified to find their dear Snow White lying on the ground as if she weredead. They lifted her up and saw that she was laced up too tightly. Theycut the bodice laces in two, and then she could breathe, and she came backto life. "It must have been the queen who tried to kill you," they said."Take care and do not let anyone in again."The queen asked her mirror:Mirror, mirror, on the wall,Who in this land is fairest of all?The mirror answered once again:You, my queen, are fair. it is true.But Little Snow White with the seven dwarfsIs a thousand times fairer than you.She was so horrified that the blood all ran to her heart, because sheknew that Snow White had come back to life. Then for an entire day and anight she planned how she might catch her. She made a poisoned comb,disguised herself differently, and went out again. She knocked on thedoor, but Snow White called out, "I am not allowed to let anyone in."Then she pulled out the comb, and when Snow White saw how it glistened,and noted that the woman was a complete stranger, she opened the door, andbought the comb from her. "Come, let me comb your hair," said the peddlerwoman. She had barely stuck the comb into Snow White's hair, before thegirl fell down and was dead. "That will keep you lying there," said thequeen. And she went home with a light heart.The dwarfs came home just in time. They saw what had happened andpulled the poisoned comb from her hair. Snow White opened her eyes andcame back to life. She promised the dwarfs not to let anyone in again.The queen stepped before her mirror:Mirror, mirror, on the wall,Who in this land is fairest of all?The mirror answered:You, my queen, are fair. it is true.But Little Snow White with the seven dwarfsIs a thousand times fairer than you.When the queen heard this, she shook and trembled with anger,"Snow White will die, if it costs me my life!" Then she went into her mostsecret room   no one else was allowed inside   and she made a poisoned,poisoned apple. From the outside it was red and beautiful, and anyone whosaw it would want it. Then she disguised herself as a peasant woman, wentto the dwarfs' house and knocked on the door.Snow White peeped out and said, "I'm not allowed to let anyone in. Thedwarfs have forbidden it most severely.""If you don't want to, I can't force you," said the peasant woman. "Iam selling these apples, and I will give you one to taste.""No, I can't accept anything. The dwarfs don't want me to.""If you are afraid, then I will cut the apple in two and eat half ofit. Here, you eat the half with the beautiful red cheek!" Now the applehad been so artfully made that only the red half was poisoned. WhenSnow White saw that the peasant woman was eating part of the apple, herdesire for it grew stronger, so she finally let the woman hand her theother half through the window. She bit into it, but she barely had thebite in her mouth when she fell to the ground dead.The queen was happy, went home, and asked her mirror:Mirror, mirror, on the wall,Who in this land is fairest of all?And it answered:You, my queen, are fairest of all."Now I'll have some peace," she said, "because once again I'm the mostbeautiful woman in the land. Snow White will remain dead this time."That evening the dwarfs returned home from the mines. Snow White waslying on the floor, and she was dead. They loosened her laces and lookedin her hair for something poisonous, but nothing helped. They could notbring her back to life. They laid her on a bier, and all seven sat next toher and cried and cried for three days. They were going to bury her, butthey saw that she remained fresh. She did not look at all like a deadperson, and she still had beautiful red cheeks. They had a glass coffinmade for her, and laid her inside, so that she could be seen easily. Theywrote her name and her ancestry on it in gold letters, and one of themalways stayed at home and kept watch over her.Snow White lay there in the coffin a long, long time, and she did notdecay. She was still as white as snow and as red as blood, and if she hadbeen able to open her eyes, they still would have been as black as ebonywood. She lay there as if she were asleep.One day a young prince came to the dwarfs' house and wanted shelter forthe night. When he came into their parlor and saw Snow White lying therein a glass coffin, illuminated so beautifully by seven little candles, hecould not get enough of her beauty. He read the golden inscription and sawthat she was the daughter of a king. He asked the dwarfs to sell him thecoffin with the dead Snow White, but they would not do this for any amountof gold. Then he asked them to give her to him, for he could not livewithout being able to see her, and he would keep her, and honor her as hismost cherished thing on earth. Then the dwarfs took pity on him and gavehim the coffin.The prince had it carried to his castle, and had it placed in a roomwhere he sat by it the whole day, never taking his eyes from it. Wheneverhe had to go out and was unable to see Snow White, he became sad. And hecould not eat a bite, unless the coffin was standing next to him. Now theservants who always had to carry the coffin to and fro became angry aboutthis. One time one of them opened the coffin, lifted Snow White upright,and said, "We are plagued the whole day long, just because of such a deadgirl," and he hit her in the back with his hand. Then the terrible pieceof apple that she had bitten off came out of her throat, and Snow Whitecame back to life.She walked up to the prince, who was beside himself with joy to see hisbeloved Snow White alive. They sat down together at the table and ate withjoy.Their wedding was set for the next day, and Snow White's godless motherwas invited as well. That morning she stepped before the mirror and said:Mirror, mirror, on the wall,Who in this land is fairest of all?The mirror answered:You, my queen, are fair. it is true.But the young queenIs a thousand times fairer than you.She was horrified to hear this, and so overtaken with fear that shecould not say anything. Still, her jealousy drove her to go to the weddingand see the young queen. When she arrived she saw that it was Snow White.Then they put a pair of iron shoes into the fire until they glowed, andshe had to put them on and dance in them. Her feet were terribly burned,and she could not stop until she had danced herself to death.