A king and queen had no children, although they wanted one very much.Then one day while the queen was sitting in her bath, a crab crept out ofthe water onto the ground and said, "Your wish will soon be fulfilled, andyou will bring a daughter into the world." And that is what happened.The king was so happy about the birth of the princess that he held agreat celebration. He also invited the fairies who lived in his kingdom,but because he had only twelve golden plates, one had to be left out, forthere were thirteen of them.The fairies came to the celebration, and as it was ending theypresented the child with gifts. The one promised her virtue, the secondone gave beauty, and so on, each one offering something desirable andmagnificent. The eleventh fairy had just presented her gift when thethirteenth fairy walked in. She was very angry that she had not beeninvited and cried out, "Because you did not invite me, I tell you that inher fifteenth year, your daughter will prick herself with a spindle andfall over dead."The parents were horrified, but the twelfth fairy, who had not yetoffered her wish, said, "It shall not be her death. She will only fallinto a hundred year sleep." The king, hoping to rescue his dear child,issued an order that all spindles in the entire kingdom should bedestroyed.The princess grew and became a miracle of beauty. One day, when she hadjust reached her fifteenth year, the king and queen went away, leaving herall alone in the castle. She walked from room to room, following herheart's desire. Finally she came to an old tower. A narrow stairway led upto it. Being curious, she climbed up until she came to a small door. Therewas a small yellow key in the door. She turned it, and the door sprangopen. She found herself in a small room where an old woman sat spinningflax. She was attracted to the old woman, and joked with her, and saidthat she too would like to try her hand at spinning. She picked up thespindle, but no sooner did she touch it, than she pricked herself with itand then fell down into a deep sleep.At that same moment the king and his attendants returned, and everyonebegan to fall asleep: the horses in the stalls, the pigeons on the roof,the dogs in the courtyard, the flies on the walls. Even the fire on thehearth flickered, stopped moving, and fell asleep. The roast stoppedsizzling. The cook let go of the kitchen boy, whose hair he was about topull. The maid dropped the chicken that she was plucking. They all slept.And a thorn hedge grew up around the entire castle, growing higher andhigher, until nothing at all could be seen of it.Princes, who had heard about the beautiful Brier Rose, came and triedto free her, but they could not penetrate the hedge. It was as if thethorns were firmly attached to hands. The princes became stuck in them,and they died miserably. And thus it continued for many long years.Then one day a prince was traveling through the land. An old man toldhim about the belief that there was a castle behind the thorn hedge, witha wonderfully beautiful princess asleep inside with all of her attendants.His grandfather had told him that many princes had tried to penetrate thehedge, but that they had gotten stuck in the thorns and had been prickedto death."I'm not afraid of that," said the prince. "I shall penetrate the hedgeand free the beautiful Brier Rose."He went forth, but when he came to the thorn hedge, it turned intoflowers. They separated, and he walked through, but after he passed, theyturned back into thorns. He went into the castle. Horses and colorfulhunting dogs were asleep in the courtyard. Pigeons, with their littleheads stuck under they wings, were sitting on the roof. As he walkedinside, the flies on the wall, the fire in the kitchen, the cook and themaid were all asleep. He walked further. All the attendants were asleep.and still further, the king and the queen. It was so quiet that he couldhear his own breath.Finally he came to the old tower where Brier Rose was lying asleep. Theprince was so amazed at her beauty that he bent over and kissed her. Atthat moment she awoke, and with her the king and the queen, and all theattendants, and the horses and the dogs, and the pigeons on the roof, andthe flies on the walls. The fire stood up and flickered, and then finishedcooking the food. The roast sizzled away. The cook boxed the kitchen boy'sears. And the maid finished plucking the chicken. Then the prince andBrier Rose got married, and they lived long and happily until they died.