Once upon a time there was a sweet little girl. Everyone who saw her likedher, but most of all her grandmother, who did not know what to give thechild next. Once she gave her a little cap made of red velvet. Because itsuited her so well, and she wanted to wear it all the time, she came to beknown as Little Red Cap.One day her mother said to her, "Come Little Red Cap. Here is a pieceof cake and a bottle of wine. Take them to your grandmother. She is sickand weak, and they will do her well. Mind your manners and give her mygreetings. Behave yourself on the way, and do not leave the path, or youmight fall down and break the glass, and then there will be nothing foryour sick grandmother."Little Red Cap promised to obey her mother. The grandmother lived outin the woods, a half hour from the village. When Little Red Cap enteredthe woods a wolf came up to her. She did not know what a wicked animal hewas, and was not afraid of him."Good day to you, Little Red Cap.""Thank you, wolf.""Where are you going so early, Little Red Cap?""To grandmother's.""And what are you carrying under your apron?""Grandmother is sick and weak, and I am taking her some cake and wine.We baked yesterday, and they should give her strength.""Little Red Cap, just where does your grandmother live?""Her house is a good quarter hour from here in the woods, under thethree large oak trees. There's a hedge of hazel bushes there. You mustknow the place," said Little Red Cap.The wolf thought to himself, "Now there is a tasty bite for me. Justhow are you going to catch her?" Then he said, "Listen, Little Red Cap,haven't you seen the beautiful flowers that are blossoming in the woods?Whydon't you go and take a look? And I don't believe you can hear howbeautifully the birds are singing. You are walking along as though youwere on your way to school inthe village. It is very beautiful in the woods."Little Red Cap opened her eyes and saw the sunlight breaking throughthe trees and how the ground was covered with beautiful flowers. Shethought, "If a take a bouquet to grandmother, she will be very pleased.Anyway, it is still early, and I'll be home on time." And she ran off intothe woods looking for flowers. Each time she picked one she thought thatshe could see an even more beautiful one a little way off, and she ranafter it, going further and further into the woods. But the wolf ranstraight to the grandmother's house and knocked on the door."Who's there?""Little Red Cap. I'm bringing you some cake and wine. Open the door forme.""Just press the latch," called out the grandmother. "I'm too weak toget up."The wolf pressed the latch, and the door opened. He stepped inside,went straight to the grandmother's bed, and ate her up. Then he took herclothes, put them on, and put her cap on his head. He got into her bed andpulled the curtains shut.Little Red Cap had run after flowers, and did not continue on her wayto grandmother's until she had gathered all that she could carry. When shearrived, she found, to her surprise, that the door was open. She walkedinto the parlor, and everything looked so strange that she thought, "Oh,my God, why am I so afraid? I usually like it at grandmother's." Then shewent to the bed and pulled back the curtains. Grandmother was lying therewith her cap pulled down over her face and looking very strange."Oh, grandmother, what big ears you have!""All the better to hear you with.""Oh, grandmother, what big eyes you have!""All the better to see you with.""Oh, grandmother, what big hands you have!""All the better to grab you with!""Oh, grandmother, what a horribly big mouth you have!""All the better to eat you with!" And with that he jumped out of bed,jumped on top of poor Little Red Cap, and ate her up. As soon as the wolfhad finished this tasty bite, he climbed back into bed, fell asleep, andbegan to snore very loudly.A huntsman was just passing by. He thought it strange that the oldwoman was snoring so loudly, so he decided to take a look. He steppedinside, and in the bed there lay the wolf that he had been hunting forsuch a long time. "He has eaten the grandmother, but perhaps she still canbe saved. I won't shoot him," thought the huntsman. So he took a pair ofscissors and cut open his belly.He had cut only a few strokes when he saw the red cap shining through.He cut a little more, and the girl jumped out and cried, "Oh, I was sofrightened! It was so dark inside the wolf's body!"And then the grandmother came out alive as well. Then Little Red Capfetched some large heavy stones. They filled the wolf's body with them,and when he woke upand tried to run away, the stones were so heavy that he fell down dead.The three of them were happy. The huntsman took the wolf's pelt.The grandmother ate the cake and drank the wine that Little Red Cap hadbrought. And Little Red Cap thought to herself, "As long as I live, I willnever leave the path and run off into the woods by myself if mother tellsme not to."They also tell how Little Red Cap was taking some baked things to hergrandmother another time, when another wolf spoke to her and wanted her toleave the path. But Little Red Cap took care and went straight tograndmother's. She told her that she had seen the wolf, and that he hadwished her a good day, but had stared at her in a wicked manner. "If wehadn't been on a public road, he would have eaten me up," she said."Come," said the grandmother. "Let's lock the door, so he can't getin."Soon afterward the wolf knocked on the door and called out, "Open up,grandmother. It's Little Red Cap, and I'm bringing you some baked things."They remained silent, and did not open the door. The wicked one walkedaround the house several times, and finally jumped onto the roof. Hewanted to wait until Little Red Cap went home that evening, then followher and eat her up in the darkness. But the grandmother saw what he was upto. There was a large stone trough in front of the house."Fetch a bucket, Little Red Cap," she said. "Yesterday I cooked somesausage. Carry thewater that I boiled them with to the trough." Little Red Cap carried wateruntil the large, large trough was clear full. The smell of sausage aroseinto the wolf's nose. He sniffed and looked down, stretching his neck solong that he could no longer hold himself, and he began to slide. He slidoff the roof, fell into the trough,and drowned. And Little Red Cap returned home happily and safely.