Once upon a time there were two brothers, peasants, and one was kindand the other was cunning. And the cunning one made money and becamerich very rich so rich that he thought himself far too good for thevillage. He went off to the town, and dressed in fine furs, andclothed his wife in rich brocades, and made friends among themerchants, and began to live as merchants live, eating all day long,no longer like a simple peasant who eats kasha one day, kasha the nextday, and for a change kasha on the third day also. And always he grewricher and richer.It was very different with the kind one. He lent money to a neighbour,and the neighbour never paid it back. He sowed before the last frost,and lost all his crops. His horse went lame. His cow gave no milk. Ifhis hens laid eggs, they were stolen. and if he set a night line inthe river, some one else always pulled it out and stole the fish andthe hooks. Everything went wrong with him, and each day saw him poorerthan the day before. At last there came a time when he had not a crumbof bread in the house. He and his wife were thin as sticks becausethey had nothing to eat, and the children were crying all day longbecause of their little empty stomachs. From morning till night he dugand worked, struggling against poverty like a fish against the ice.but it was no good. Things went from bad to worse.At last his wife said to him: "You must go to the town and see thatrich brother of yours. He will surely not refuse to give you a littlehelp."And he said: "Truly, wife, there is nothing else to be done. I will goto the town, and perhaps my rich brother will help me. I am sure hewould not let my children starve. After all, he is their uncle."So he took his stick and tramped off to the town.He came to the house of his rich brother. A fine house it was, withpainted eaves and a doorway carved by a master. Many servants werethere and food in plenty, and people coming and going. He went in andfound his brother, and said, "Dear brother of mine, I beg you help me, even if only a little. Mywife and children are without bread. All day long they sit hungry andwaiting, and I have no food to give them."The rich brother looks at him, and hums and strokes his beard. Thensays he: "I will help you. But, of course, you must do something inreturn. Stay here and work for me, and at the end of a week you shallhave the help you have earned."The poor brother thanked him, and bowed and kissed his hand, andpraised God for the kindness of his brother's heart, and set instantlyto work. For a whole week he slaved, and scarcely slept. He cleanedout the stables and cut the wood, swept the yard, drew water from thewell, and ran errands for the cook. And at the end of the week hisbrother called him, and gave him a single loaf of bread."You must not forget," says the rich brother, "that I have fed you allthe week you have been here, and all that food counts in the payment."The poor brother thanked him, and was setting off to carry the loaf tohis wife and children when the rich brother called him back."Stop a minute," said he. "I would like you to know that I am welldisposed towards you. To morrow is my name day. Come to the feast, andbring your wife with you.""How can I do that, brother? Your friends are rich merchants, withfine clothes, and boots on their feet. And I have nothing but my oldcoat, and my legs are bound in rags and my feet shuffle along in strawslippers. I do not want to shame you before your guests.""Never mind about that," says the rich brother. "we will find a placefor you.""Very good, brother, and thank you kindly. God be praised for havinggiven you a tender heart."And the poor brother, though he was tired out after all the work hehad done, set off home as fast as he could to take the bread to hiswife and children."He might have given you more than that," said his wife."But listen," said he. "what do you think of this? To morrow we areinvited, you and I, as guests, to go to a great feast.""What do you mean? A feast? Who has invited us?""My brother has invited us. To morrow is his name day. I always toldyou he had a kind heart. We shall be well fed, and I dare say we shallbe able to bring back something for the children.""A pleasure like that does not often come our way," said his wife.So early in the morning they got up, and walked all the way to thetown, so as not to shame the rich brother by putting up their old cartin the yard beside the merchants' fine carriages. They came to therich brother's house, and found the guests all assembled and makingmerry. rich merchants and their plump wives, all eating and laughingand drinking and talking.They wished a long life to the rich brother, and the poor brotherwanted to make a speech, congratulating him on his name day. But therich brother scarcely thanked him, because he was so busy entertainingthe rich merchants and their plump, laughing wives. He was pressingfood on his guests, now this, now that, and calling to the servants tokeep their glasses filled and their plates full of all the tastiestkinds of food. As for the poor brother and his wife, the rich oneforgot all about them, and they got nothing to eat and never a drop todrink. They just sat there with empty plates and empty glasses,watching how the others ate and drank. The poor brother laughed withthe rest, because he did not wish to show that he had been forgotten.The dinner came to an end. One by one the guests went up to the giverof the feast to thank him for his good cheer. And the poor brother toogot up from the bench, and bowed low before his brother and thankedhim.The guests went home, drunken and joyful. A fine noise they made, aspeople do on these occasions, shouting jokes to each other and singingsongs at the top of their voices.The poor brother and his wife went home empty and sad. All that longway they had walked, and now they had to walk it again, and the feastwas over, and never a bite had they had in their mouths, nor a drop intheir gullets."Come, wife," says the poor brother as he trudged along, "let us singa song like the others.""What a fool you are!" says his wife. Hungry and cross she was, aseven Maroosia would be after a day like that watching other peoplestuff themselves. "What a fool you are!" says she. "People may verywell sing when they have eaten tasty dishes and drunk good wine. Butwhat reason have you got for making a merry noise in the night?""Why, my dear" says he, "we have been at my brother's name day feast.I am ashamed to go home without a song. I'll sing. I'll sing so thateveryone shall think he loaded us with good things like the rest.""Well, sing if you like. but you'll sing by yourself."So the peasant, the poor brother, started singing a song with his drythroat. He lifted his voice and sang like the rest, while his wifetrudged silently beside him.But as he sang it seemed to the peasant that he heard two voicessinging his own and another's. He stopped, and asked his wife, "Is that you joining in my song with a little thin voice?""What's the matter with you? I never thought of singing with you. Inever opened my mouth.""Who is it then?""No one except yourself. Any one would say you had had a drink of wineafter all.""But I heard some one ... a little weak voice ... a little sadvoice ... joining with mine.""I heard nothing," said his wife. "but sing again, and I'll listen."The poor man sang again. He sang alone. His wife listened, and it wasclear that there were two voices singing the dry voice of the poorman, and a little miserable voice that came from the shadows under thetrees. The poor man stopped, and asked out loud, "Who are you who are singing with me?"And a little thin voice answered out of the shadows by the roadside,under the trees, "I am Misery.""So it was you, Misery, who were helping me?""Yes, master, I was helping you.""Well, little Master Misery, come along with us and keep us company.""I'll do that willingly," says little Master Misery, "and I'll never,never leave you at all no, not if you have no other friend in theworld."And a wretched little man, with a miserable face and little thin legsand arms, came out of the shadows and went home with the peasant andhis wife.It was late when they got home, but little Master Misery asked thepeasant to take him to the tavern. "After such a day as this hasbeen," says he, "there's nothing else to be done.""But I have no money," says the peasant.(: Misery seated himself firmly on his shoulders andpulled out Handfuls of his hair.)"What of that?" says little Master Misery. "Spring has begun, and youhave a winter jacket on. It will soon be summer, and whether you haveit or not you won't wear it. Bring it along to the tavern, and changeit for a drink."The poor man went to the tavern with little Master Misery, and theysat there and drank the vodka that the tavern keeper gave them inexchange for the coat.Next day, early in the morning, little Master Misery begancomplaining. His head ached and he could not open his eyes, and he didnot like the weather, and the children were crying, and there was nofood in the house. He asked the peasant to come with him to the tavernagain and forget all this wretchedness in a drink."But I've got no money," says the peasant."Rubbish!" says little Master Misery. "you have a sledge and acart."They took the cart and the sledge to the tavern, and stayed theredrinking until the tavern keeper said they had had all that the cartand the sledge were worth. Then the tavern keeper took them and threwthem out of doors into the night, and they picked themselves up andcrawled home.Next day Misery complained worse than before, and begged the peasantto come with him to the tavern. There was no getting rid of him, nokeeping him quiet. The peasant sold his barrow and plough, so that hecould no longer work his land. He went to the tavern with littleMaster Misery.A month went by like that, and at the end of it the peasant hadnothing left at all. He had even pledged the hut he lived in to aneighbour, and taken the money to the tavern.And every day little Master Misery begged him to come. "There I am notwretched any longer," says Misery. "There I sing, and even dance,hitting the floor with my heels and making a merry noise.""But now I have no money at all, and nothing left to sell," says thepoor peasant. "I'd be willing enough to go with you, but I can't, andhere is an end of it.""Rubbish!" says Misery. "your wife has two dresses. Leave her one. shecan't wear both at once. Leave her one, and buy a drink with theother. They are both ragged, but take the better of the two. Thetavern keeper is a just man, and will give us more drink for thebetter one."The peasant took the dress and sold it. and Misery laughed and danced,while the peasant thought to himself, "Well, this is the end. I'venothing left to sell, and my wife has nothing either. We've theclothes on our backs, and nothing else in the world."In the morning little Master Misery woke with a headache as usual, anda mouthful of groans and complaints. But he saw that the peasant hadnothing left to sell, and he called out, "Listen to me, master of the house.""What is it, Misery?" says the peasant, who was master of nothing inthe world."Go you to a neighbour and beg the loan of a cart and a pair of goodoxen."The poor peasant had no will of his own left. He did exactly as hewas told. He went to his neighbour and begged the loan of the oxen andcart."But how will you repay me?" says the neighbour."I will do a week's work for you for nothing.""Very well," says the neighbour. "take the oxen and cart, but becareful not to give them too heavy a load.""Indeed I won't," says the peasant, thinking to himself that he hadnothing to load them with. "And thank you very much," says he. and hegoes back to Misery, taking with him the oxen and cart.Misery looked at him and grumbled in his wretched little voice, "Theyare hardly strong enough,""They are the best I could borrow," says the peasant. "and you and Ihave starved too long to be heavy."And the peasant and little Master Misery sat together in the cart anddrove off together, Misery holding his head in both hands and groaningat the jolt of the cart.As soon as they had left the village, Misery sat up and asked thepeasant, "Do you know the big stone that stands alone in the middle of a fieldnot far from here?""Of course I know it," says the peasant."Drive straight to it," says Misery, and went on rocking himself toand fro, and groaning and complaining in his wretched little voice.They came to the stone, and got down from the cart and looked at thestone. It was very big and heavy, and was fixed in the ground."Heave it up," says Misery.The poor peasant set to work to heave it up, and Misery helped him,groaning, and complaining that the peasant was nothing of a fellowbecause he could not do his work by himself. Well, they heaved it up,and there below it was a deep hole, and the hole was filled with goldpieces to the very top. more gold pieces than ever you will see copperones if you live to be a hundred and ten."Well, what are you staring at?" says Misery. "Stir yourself, and bequick about it, and load all this gold into the cart."The peasant set to work, and piled all the gold into the cart down tothe very last gold piece. while Misery sat on the stone and watched,groaning and chuckling in his weak, wretched little voice."Be quick," says Misery. "and then we can get back to the tavern."The peasant looked into the pit to see that there was nothing leftthere, and then says he, "Just take a look, little Master Misery, and see that we have leftnothing behind. You are smaller than I, and can get right down intothe pit...."Misery slipped down from the stone, grumbling at the peasant, and bentover the pit."You've taken the lot," says he. "there's nothing to be seen.""But what is that," says the peasant "there, shining in the corner?""I don't see it.""Jump down into the pit and you'll see it. It would be a pity to wastea gold piece."Misery jumped down into the pit, and instantly the peasant rolled thestone over the hole and shut him in."Things will be better so," says the peasant. "If I were to let youout of that, sooner or later you would drink up all this money, justas you drank up everything I had."Then the peasant drove home and hid the gold in the cellar. took theoxen and cart back to his neighbour, thanked him kindly, and began tothink what he would do, now that Misery was his master no longer, andhe with plenty of money."But he had to work for a week to pay for the loan of the oxen andcart," said Vanya."Well, during the week, while he was working, he was thinking all thetime, in his head," said old Peter, a little grumpily. Then he went onwith his tale.As soon as the week was over, he bought a forest and built himself afine house, and began to live twice as richly as his brother in thetown. And his wife had two new dresses, perhaps more. with a lot ofgold and silver braid, and necklaces of big yellow stones, andbracelets and sparkling rings. His children were well fed everyday rivers of milk between banks of kisel jelly, and mushrooms withsauce, and soup, and cakes with little balls of egg and meat hidden inthe middle. And they had toys that squeaked, a little boy feeding agoose that poked its head into a dish, and a painted hen with a lot ofchickens that all squeaked together.Time went on, and when his name day drew near he thought of hisbrother, the merchant, and drove off to the town to invite him to takepart in the feast."I have not forgotten, brother, that you invited me to yours.""What a fellow you are!" says his brother. "you have nothing to eatyourself, and here you are inviting other people for your name day.""Yes," said the peasant, "once upon a time, it is true, I had nothingto eat. but now, praise be to God, I am no poorer than yourself. Cometo my name day feast and you will see.""Very well," says his brother, "I'll come. but don't think you canplay any jokes on me."On the morning of the peasant's name day his brother, the merchant inthe town, put on his best clothes, and his plump wife dressed in allher richest, and they got into their cart a fine cart it was too,painted in the brightest colours and off they drove together to thehouse of the brother who had once been poor. They took a basket offood with them, in case he had only been joking when he invited themto his name day feast.They drove to the village, and asked for him at the hut where he usedto be.An old man hobbling along the road answered them, "Oh, you mean our Ivan Ilyitch. Well, he does not live here anylonger. Where have you been that you have not heard? His is the bignew house on the hill. You can see it through the trees over there,where all these people are walking. He has a kind heart, he has, andriches have not spoiled it. He has invited the whole village to feastwith him, because to day is his name day.""Riches!" thought the merchant. "a new house!" He was very muchsurprised, but as he drove along the road he was more surprised still.For he passed all the villagers on their way to the feast. and everyone was talking of his brother, and how kind he was and how generous,and what a feast there was going to be, and how many barrels of meadand, wine had been taken up to the house. All the folk were hurryingalong the road licking their lips, each one going faster than theother so as to be sure not to miss any of the good things.The rich brother from the town drove with his wife into the courtyardof the fine new house. And there on the steps was the peasant brother,Ivan Ilyitch, and his wife, receiving their guests. And if the richbrother was well dressed, the peasant was better dressed. and if therich brother's wife was in her fine clothes, the peasant's wife fairlyglittered what with the gold braid on her bosom and the shiningsilver in her hair.And the peasant brother kissed his brother from the town on bothcheeks, and gave him and his wife the best places at the table. He fedthem ah, how he fed them! with little red slips of smoked salmon,and beetroot soup with cream, and slabs of sturgeon, and meats ofthree or four kinds, and game and sweetmeats of the best. There neverwas such a feast no, not even at the wedding of a Tzar. And as fordrink, there were red wine and white wine, and beer and mead in greatbarrels, and everywhere the peasant went about among his guests,filling glasses and seeing that their plates were kept piled with thefoods each one liked best.And the rich brother wondered and wondered, and at last he could waitno longer, and he took his brother aside and said, "I am delighted to see you so rich. But tell me, I beg you, how it wasthat all this good fortune came to you."The poor brother, never thinking, told him all the whole truth aboutlittle Master Misery and the pit full of gold, and how Misery was shutin there under the big stone.The merchant brother listened, and did not forget a word. He couldhardly bear himself for envy, and as for his wife, she was worse. Shelooked at the peasant's wife with her beautiful head dress, and shebit her lips till they bled.As soon as they could, they said good bye and drove off home.The merchant brother could not bear the thought that his brother wasricher than he. He said to himself, "I will go to the field, and movethe stone, and let Master Misery out. Then he will go and tear mybrother to pieces for shutting him in. and his riches will not be ofmuch use to him then, even if Misery does not give them to me as atoken of gratitude. Think of my brother daring to show off his richesto me!"So he drove off to the field, and came at last to the big stone. Hemoved the stone on one side, and then bent over the pit to see whatwas in it.He had scarcely put his head over the edge before Misery sprang up outof the pit, seated himself firmly on his shoulders, squeezed his neckbetween his little wiry legs, and pulled out handfuls of his hair."Scream away!" cried little Master Misery. "You tried to kill me,shutting me up in there, while you went off and bought fine clothes.You tried to kill me, and came to feast your eyes on my corpse. Now,whatever happens, I'll never leave you again.""Listen, Misery!" screamed the merchant. "Ai, ai! stop pulling myhair. You are choking me. Ai! Listen. It was not I who shut you inunder the stone....""Who was it, if it was not you?" asked Misery, tugging out his hair,and digging his knees into the merchant's throat."It was my brother. I came here on purpose to let you out. I came outof pity."Misery tugged the merchant's hair, and twisted the merchant's earstill they nearly came off."Liar, liar!" he shouted in his little, wretched, angry voice. "Youtricked me once. Do you think you'll get the better of me again by aclumsy lie of that kind? Now then. Gee up! Home we go."And so the rich brother went trotting home, crying with pain. whilelittle Master Misery sat firmly on his shoulders, pulling at hishair.Instantly Misery was at his old tricks."You seem to have bought a good deal with the gold," he said, lookingat the merchant's house. "We'll see how far it will go." And every dayhe rode the rich merchant to the tavern, and made him drink up all hismoney, and his house, his clothes, his horses and carts andsledges everything he had until he was as poor as his brother hadbeen in the beginning.The merchant thought and thought, and puzzled his brain to find a wayto get rid of him. And at last one night, when Misery had groanedhimself to sleep, the merchant went out into the yard and took a bigcart wheel and made two stout wedges of wood, just big enough to fitinto the hub of the wheel. He drove one wedge firmly in at one end ofthe hub, and left the wheel in the yard with the other wedge, and abig hammer lying handy close to it.In the morning Misery wakes as usual, and cries out to be taken to thetavern."We've sold everything I've got," says the merchant."Well, what are you going to do to amuse me?" says Misery."Let's play hide and seek in the yard," says the merchant."Right," says Misery. "but you'll never find me, for I can make myselfso small I can hide in a mouse hole in the floor.""We'll see," says the merchant.The merchant hid first, and Misery found him at once."Now it's my turn," says Misery. "but what's the good? You'll neverfind me. Why, I could get inside the hub of that wheel if I had a mindto.""What a liar you are!" says the merchant. "you never could get intothat little hole.""Look," says Misery, and he made himself little, little, little, andsat on the hub of the wheel."Look," says he, making himself smaller again. and then, pouf! in hepops into the hole of the hub.Instantly the merchant took the other wedge and the hammer, and drovethe wedge into the hole. The first wedge had closed up the other end,and so there was Misery shut up inside the hub of the cart wheel.The merchant set the wheel on his shoulders, and took it to the riverand threw it out as far as he could, and it went floating away down tothe sea.Then he went home and set to work to make money again, and earn hisdaily bread. for Misery had made him so poor that he had nothing left,and had to hire himself out to make a living, just as his peasantbrother used to do.But what happened to Misery when he went floating away?He floated away down the river, shut up in the hub of the wheel. Heought to have starved there. But I am afraid some silly, greedy fellowthought to get a new wheel for nothing, and pulled the wedges out andlet him go. for, by all I hear, Misery is still wandering about theworld and making people wretched bad luck to him!