There was once a little boy whose name was Lars, and because he was solittle he was called Little Lasse. he was a brave little man, for hesailed round the world in a pea shell boat.It was summer time, when the pea shells grew long and green in thegarden. Little Lasse crept into the pea bed where the pea stalks rosehigh above his cap, and he picked seventeen large shells, the longestand straightest he could find.Little Lasse thought, perhaps, that no one saw him. but that wasfoolish, for God sees everywhere.Then the gardener came with his gun over his shoulder, and he heardsomething rustling in the pea bed.'I think that must be a sparrow,' he said. 'Ras! Ras!' but no sparrowsflew out, for Little Lasse had no wings, only two small legs. 'Wait! Iwill load my gun and shoot the sparrows,' said the gardener.Then Little Lasse was frightened, and crept out on to the path.'Forgive me, dear gardener!' he said. 'I wanted to get some fine boats.''Well, I will this time,' said the gardener. 'But another time LittleLasse must ask leave to go and look for boats in the pea bed.''I will,' answered Lasse. and he went off to the shore. Then he openedthe shells with a pin, split them carefully in two, and broke smalllittle bits of sticks for the rowers' seats. Then he took the peas whichwere in the shells and put them in the boats for cargo. Some of theshells got broken, some remained whole, and when all were ready Lassehad twelve boats. But they should not be boats, they should be largewarships. He had three liners, three frigates, three brigs and threeschooners. The largest liner was called Hercules, and the smallestschooner The Flea. Little Lasse put all the twelve into the water, andthey floated as splendidly and as proudly as any great ships over thewaves of the ocean.And now the ships must sail round the world. The great island over therewas Asia. that large stone Africa. the little island America. the smallstones were Polynesia. and the shore from which the ships sailed out wasEurope. The whole fleet set off and sailed far away to other parts ofthe world. The ships of the line steered a straight course to Asia, thefrigates sailed to Africa, the brigs to America, and the schooners toPolynesia. But Little Lasse remained in Europe, and threw small stonesout into the great sea.Now, there was on the shore of Europe a real boat, father's own, abeautiful white painted boat, and Little Lasse got into it. Father andmother had forbidden this, but Little Lasse forgot. He thought he shouldvery much like to travel to some other part of the world.'I shall row out a little way only a very little way,' he thought. Thepea shell boats had travelled so far that they only looked like littlespecks on the ocean. 'I shall seize Hercules on the coast of Asia,' saidLasse, 'and then row home again to Europe.'He shook the rope that held the boat, and, strange to say, the ropebecame loose. Ditsch, ratsch, a man is a man, and so Little Lasse mannedthe boat.Now he would row and he could row, for he had rowed so often on thestep sat home, when the steps pretended to be a boat and father's bigstick an oar. But when Little Lasse wanted to row there were no oarsto be found in the boat. The oars were locked up in the boat house, andLittle Lasse had not noticed that the boat was empty. It is not so easyas one thinks to row to Asia without oars.What could Little Lasse do now? The boat was already some distance outon the sea, and the wind, which blew from land, was driving it stillfurther out. Lasse was frightened and began to cry. But there was noone on the shore to hear him. Only a big crow perched alone in the birchtree. and the gardener's black cat sat under the birch tree, waiting tocatch the crow. Neither of them troubled themselves in the least aboutLittle Lasse, who was drifting out to sea.Ah! how sorry Little Lasse was now that he had been disobedient and gotinto the boat, when father and mother had so often forbidden him to doso! Now it was too late, he could not get back to land. Perhaps he wouldbe lost out on the great sea. What should he do?When he had shouted until he was tired and no one heard him, he puthis two little hands together and said, 'Good God, do not be angry withLittle Lasse.' And then he went to sleep. For although it was daylight,old Nukku Matti was sitting on the shores of the 'Land of Nod,' and wasfishing for little children with his long fishing rod. He heard the lowwords which Little Lasse said to God, and he immediately drew the boatto himself and laid Little Lasse to sleep on a bed of rose leaves.Then Nukku Matti said to one of the Dreams, 'Play with Little Lasse, sothat he does not feel lonesome.'It was a little dream boy, so little, so little, that he was less thanLasse himself. he had blue eyes and fair hair, a red cap with a silverband, and white coat with pearls on the collar. He came to Little Lasseand said, 'Would you like to sail round the world?''Yes,' said Lasse in his sleep, 'I should like to.''Come, then,' said the dream boy, 'and let us sail in your pea shellboats. You shall sail in Hercules and I shall sail in The Flea.'So they sailed away from the 'Land of Nod,' and in a little whileHercules and The Flea were on the shores of Asia away at the other endof the world, where the Ice Sea flows through Behring Straits into thePacific Ocean. A long way off in the winter mist they could see theexplorer Nordenskiold with his ship Vega trying to find an openingbetween the ice. It was so cold, so cold. the great icebergs glitteredstrangely, and the huge whales now lived under the ice, for they couldnot make a hole through with their awkward heads. All around on thedreary shore there was snow and snow as far as the eye could see. littlegrey men in shaggy skins moved about, and drove in small sledges throughthe snow drifts, but the sledges were drawn by dogs.'Shall we land here?' asked the dream boy.'No,' said Little Lasse. 'I am so afraid that the whales would swallowus up, and the big dogs bite us. Let us sail instead to another part ofthe world.''Very well,' said the dream boy with the red cap and the silver band.'it is not far to America' and at the same moment they were there.The sun was shining and it was very warm. Tall palm trees grew in longrows on the shore and bore coconuts in their top branches. Men red ascopper galloped over the immense green prairies and shot their arrowsat the buffaloes, who turned against them with their sharp horns. Anenormous cobra which had crept up the stem of a tall palm tree threwitself on to a little llama that was grazing at the foot. Knaps! it wasall over the little llama.'Shall we land here?' asked the dream boy.'No,' said Little Lasse. 'I am so afraid that the buffaloes will buttus, and the great serpent eat us up. Let us travel to another part ofthe world.''Very well,' said the dream boy with the white coat, 'it is only alittle way to Polynesia' and then they were there.It was very warm there, as warm as in a hot bath in Finland. Costlyspices grew on the shores: the pepper plant, the cinnamon tree, ginger,saffron. the coffee plant and the tea plant. Brown people with long earsand thick lips, and hideously painted faces, hunted a yellow spottedtiger among the high bamboos on the shore, and the tiger turned on themand stuck its claws into one of the brown men. Then all the others tookto flight.'Shall we land here?' asked the dream boy.'No,' said Little Lasse. 'Don't you see the tiger away there by thepepper plant? Let us travel to another part of the world.''We can do so,' said the dream boy with the blue eyes. 'We are not farfrom Africa' and as he said that they were there.They anchored at the mouth of a great river where the shores wereas green as the greenest velvet. A little distance from the river animmense desert stretched away. The air was yellow. the sun shone so hot,so hot as if it would burn the earth to ashes, and the people were asblack as the blackest jet. They rode across the desert on tall camels.the lions roared with thirst, and the great crocodiles with their greylizard heads and sharp white teeth gaped up out of the river.'Shall we land here?' asked the dream boy.'No,' said Little Lasse. 'The sun would burn us, and the lions and thecrocodiles would eat us up. Let us travel to another part of the world.''We can travel back to Europe,' said the dream boy with the fair hair.And with that they were there.They came to a shore where it was all so cool and familiar and friendly.There stood the tall birch tree with its drooping leaves. at the top satthe old crow, and at its foot crept the gardener's black cat. Not faraway was a house which Little Lasse had seen before. near the housethere was a garden, and in the garden a pea bed with long pea shells.An old gardener with a green coat walked about and wondered if thecucumbers were ripe. Fylax was barking on the steps, and when he sawLittle Lasse he wagged his tail. Old Stina was milking the cows in thefarmyard, and there was a very familiar lady in a check woollen shawlon her way to the bleaching green to see if the clothes were bleached.There was, too, a well known gentleman in a yellow summer coat, with along pipe in his mouth. he was going to see if the reapers had cut therye. A boy and a girl were running on the shore and calling out, 'LittleLasse! Come home for bread and butter!''Shall we land here?' asked the dream boy, and he blinked his blue eyesroguishly.'Come with me, and I shall ask mother to give you some bread and butterand a glass of milk,' said Little Lasse.'Wait a little,' said the dream boy. And now Little Lasse saw that thekitchen door was open, and from within there was heard a low, pleasantfrizzling, like that which is heard when one whisks yellow batter with awooden ladle into a hot frying pan.'Perhaps we should sail back to Polynesia now?' said the happydream boy.'No. they are frying pancakes in Europe just now,' said Little Lasse.and he wanted to jump ashore, but he could not. The dream boy had tiedhim with a chain of flowers, so that he could not move. And now allthe little dreams came about him, thousands and thousands of littlechildren, and they made a ring around him and sang a little song:The world is very, very wide,Little Lasse, Lasse,And though you've sailed beyond the tide,You can never tell how wideIt is on the other side,Lasse, Little Lasse.You have found it cold and hot,Little Lasse, Lasse.But in no land is God not,Lasse, Little Lasse.Many men live there as here,But they all to God are dear,Little Lasse, Lasse.When His angel is your guide,Little Lasse, Lasse,Then no harm can e'er betide,Even on the other sideWhere the wild beasts wander.But tell us now,Whene'er you roam,Do you not find the best is homeOf all the lands you've looked upon,Lasse, Little Lasse?When the dreams had sung their song they skipped away, and Nukku Matticarried Lasse back to the boat. He lay there for a long time quitestill, and he still heard the frying pan frizzling at home of the fire,the frizzling was very plain, Little Lasse heard it quite near him. andso he woke up and rubbed his eyes.There he lay in the boat, where he had fallen asleep. The wind hadturned, and the boat had drifted out with one wind and drifted in withanother while Little Lasse slept, and what Lasse thought was frizzlingin a frying pan was the low murmur of the waves as they washed againstthe stones on the shore. But he was not altogether wrong, for the clearblue sea is like a great pan in which God's sun all day makes cakes forgood children.Little Lasse rubbed the sleep out of his eyes and looked around him.Everything was the same as before. the crow in the birch tree, the caton the grass, and the pea shell fleet on the shore. Some of the shipshad foundered, and some had drifted back to land. Hercules had come backwith its cargo from Asia, The Flea had arrived from Polynesia, and theother parts of the world were just where they were before.Little Lasse did not know what to think. He had so often been in thatgrotto in the 'Land of Nod' and did not know what tricks dreams canplay. But Little Lasse did not trouble his head with such things. hegathered together his boats and walked up the shore back to the house.His brother and sister ran to meet him, and called out from thedistance, 'Where have you been so long, Lasse? Come home and get somebread and butter.' The kitchen door stood open, and inside was heard astrange frizzling.The gardener was near the gate, watering the dill and parsley, thecarrots and parsnips.'Well,' he said, 'where has Little Lasse been so long?'Little Lasse straightened himself up stiff, and answered: 'I have sailedround the world in a pea shell boat.''Oh!' said the gardener.He has forgotten Dreamland. But you have not forgotten it. you know thatit exists. You know the beautiful grotto and the bright silver wallswhose lustre never fades, the sparkling diamonds which never grow dim,the music which never ceases its low, soft murmur through the sweetevening twilight. The airy fairy fancies of happy Dreamland never growold. they, like the glorious stars above us, are always young. Perhapsyou have caught a glimpse of their ethereal wings as they flew aroundyour pillow. Perhaps you have met the same dream boy with the blue eyesand the fair hair, the one who wore the red cap with the silver band andthe white coat with pearls on the collar. Perhaps he has taken you tosee all the countries of the world and the peoples, the cold waste landsand the burning deserts, the many coloured men and the wild creaturesin the sea and in the woods, so that you may earn many things, but comegladly home again. Yes, who knows? Perhaps you also have sailed roundthe wide world once in a pea shell boat.From Z. Topelius.