Once upon a time the things in this story happened, and if they had nothappened then the story would never have been told. But that was thetime when wolves and lambs lay peacefully together in one stall, andshepherds dined on grassy banks with kings and queens.Once upon a time, then, my dear good children, there lived a man. Nowthis man was really a hundred years old, if not fully twenty years more.And his wife was very old too how old I do not know. but some said shewas as old as the goddess Venus herself. They had been very happy allthese years, but they would have been happier still if they had had anychildren. but old though they were they had never made up their minds todo without them, and often they would sit over the fire and talk of howthey would have brought up their children if only some had come to theirhouse.One day the old man seemed sadder and more thoughtful than was commonwith him, and at last he said to his wife: 'Listen to me, old woman!''What do you want?' asked she.'Get me some money out of the chest, for I am going a long journey allthrough the world to see if I cannot find a child, for my heart achesto think that after I am dead my house will fall into the hands of astranger. And this let me tell you: that if I never find a child I shallnot come home again.'Then the old man took a bag and filled it with food and money, andthrowing it over his shoulders, bade his wife farewell.For long he wandered, and wandered, and wandered, but no child did hesee. and one morning his wanderings led him to a forest which was sothick with trees that no light could pass through the branches. The oldman stopped when he saw this dreadful place, and at first was afraid togo in. but he remembered that, after all, as the proverb says: 'It isthe unexpected that happens,' and perhaps in the midst of this blackspot he might find the child he was seeking. So summoning up all hiscourage he plunged boldly in.How long he might have been walking there he never could have told you,when at last he reached the mouth of a cave where the darkness seemed ahundred times darker than the wood itself. Again he paused, but he feltas if something was driving him to enter, and with a beating heart hestepped in.For some minutes the silence and darkness so appalled him that he stoodwhere he was, not daring to advance one step. Then he made a greateffort and went on a few paces, and suddenly, far before him, he sawthe glimmer of a light. This put new heart into him, and he directed hissteps straight towards the faint rays, till he could see, sitting by it,an old hermit, with a long white beard.The hermit either did not hear the approach of his visitor, or pretendednot to do so, for he took no notice, and continued to read his book.After waiting patiently for a little while, the old man fell on hisknees, and said: 'Good morning, holy father!' But he might as well havespoken to the rock. 'Good morning, holy father,' he said again, a littlelouder than before, and this time the hermit made a sign to him tocome nearer. 'My son,' whispered he, in a voice that echoed throughthe cavern, 'what brings you to this dark and dismal place? Hundreds ofyears have passed since my eyes have rested on the face of a man, and Idid not think to look on one again.'.'My misery has brought me here,' replied the old man. 'I have no child,and all our lives my wife and I have longed for one. So I left my home,and went out into the world, hoping that somewhere I might find what Iwas seeking.'Then the hermit picked up an apple from the ground, and gave it to him,saying: 'Eat half of this apple, and give the rest to your wife, andcease wandering through the world.'The old man stooped and kissed the feet of the hermit for sheer joy,and left the cave. He made his way through the forest as fast as thedarkness would let him, and at length arrived in flowery fields,which dazzled him with their brightness. Suddenly he was seized with adesperate thirst, and a burning in his throat. He looked for a streambut none was to be seen, and his tongue grew more parched every moment.At length his eyes fell on the apple, which all this while he had beenholding in his hand, and in his thirst he forgot what the hermit hadtold him, and instead of eating merely his own half, he ate up the oldwoman's also. after that he went to sleep.When he woke up he saw something strange lying on a bank a little wayoff, amidst long trails of pink roses. The old man got up, rubbed hiseyes, and went to see what it was, when, to his surprise and joy, itproved to be a little girl about two years old, with a skin as pink andwhite as the roses above her. He took her gently in his arms, but shedid not seem at all frightened, and only jumped and crowed with delight.and the old man wrapped his cloak round her, and set off for home asfast as his legs would carry him.When they were close to the cottage where they lived he laid the childin a pail that was standing near the door, and ran into the house,crying: 'Come quickly, wife, quickly, for I have brought you a daughter,with hair of gold and eyes like stars!'At this wonderful news the old woman flew downstairs, almost tumblingdown ill her eagerness to see the treasure. but when her husband ledher to the pail it was perfectly empty! The old man was nearly besidehimself with horror, while his wife sat down and sobbed with grief anddisappointment. There was not a spot round about which they did notsearch, thinking that somehow the child might have got out of the pailand hidden itself for fun. but the little girl was not there, and therewas no sign of her.'Where can she be?' moaned the old man, in despair. 'Oh, why did I everleave her, even for a moment? Have the fairies taken her, or has somewild beast carried her off?' And they began their search all over again.but neither fairies nor wild beasts did they meet with, and with sorehearts they gave it up at last and turned sadly into the hut.And what had become of the baby? Well, finding herself left alone in astrange place she began to cry with fright, and an eagle hovering near,heard her, and went to see what the sound came from. When he beheldthe fat pink and white creature he thought of his hungry little onesat home, and swooping down he caught her up in his claws and was soonflying with her over the tops of the trees. In a few minutes he reachedthe one in which he had built his nest, and laying little Wildrose (forso the old man had called her) among his downy young eaglets, he flewaway. The eaglets naturally were rather surprised at this strangeanimal, so suddenly popped down in their midst, but instead of beginningto eat her, as their father expected, they nestled up close to her andspread out their tiny wings to shield her from the sun.Now, in the depths of the forest where the eagle had built his nest,there ran a stream whose waters were poisonous, and on the banks ofthis stream dwelt a horrible lindworm with seven heads. The lindworm hadoften watched the eagle flying about the top of the tree, carrying foodto his young ones and, accordingly, he watched carefully for the momentwhen the eaglets began to try their wings and to fly away from thenest. Of course, if the eagle himself was there to protect them even thelindworm, big and strong as he was, knew that he could do nothing. butwhen he was absent, any little eaglets who ventured too near the groundwould be sure to disappear down the monster's throat. Their brothers,who had been left behind as too young and weak to see the world, knewnothing of all this, but supposed their turn would soon come to see theworld also. And in a few days their eyes, too, opened and their wingsflapped impatiently, and they longed to fly away above the wavingtree tops to mountain and the bright sun beyond. But that very midnightthe lindworm, who was hungry and could not wait for his supper, came outof the brook with a rushing noise, and made straight for the tree. Twoeyes of flame came creeping nearer, nearer, and two fiery tongues werestretching themselves out closer, closer, to the little birds who weretrembling and shuddering in the farthest corner of the nest. But justas the tongues had almost reached them, the lindworm gave a fearful cry,and turned and fell backwards. Then came the sound of battle from theground below, and the tree shook, though there was no wind, and roarsand snarls mixed together, till the eaglets felt more frightenedthan ever, and thought their last hour had come. Only Wildrose wasundisturbed, and slept sweetly through it all.In the morning the eagle returned and saw traces of a fight below thetree, and here and there a handful of yellow mane lying about, and hereand there a hard scaly substance. when he saw that he rejoiced greatly,and hastened to the nest.'Who has slain the lindworm?' he asked of his children. there were somany that he did not at first miss the two which the lindworm had eaten.But the eaglets answered that they could not tell, only that they hadbeen in danger of their lives, and at the last moment they had beendelivered. Then the sunbeam had struggled through the thick branches andcaught Wildrose's golden hair as she lay curled up in the corner, andthe eagle wondered, as he looked, whether the little girl had broughthim luck, and it was her magic which had killed his enemy.'Children,' he said, 'I brought her here for your dinner, and you havenot touched her. what is the meaning of this?' But the eaglets did notanswer, and Wildrose opened her eyes, and seemed seven times lovelierthan before.From that day Wildrose lived like a little princess. The eagle flewabout the wood and collected the softest, greenest moss he could find tomake her a bed, and then he picked with his beak all the brightest andprettiest flowers in the fields or on the mountains to decorate it. Socleverly did he manage it that there was not a fairy in the whole of theforest who would not have been pleased to sleep there, rocked to and froby the breeze on the treetops. And when the little ones were able to flyfrom their nest he taught them where to look for the fruits and berrieswhich she loved.So the time passed by, and with each year Wildrose grew taller and morebeautiful, and she lived happily in her nest and never wanted to go outof it, only standing at the edge in the sunset, and looking upon thebeautiful world. For company she had all the birds in the forest, whocame and talked to her, and for playthings the strange flowers whichthey brought her from far, and the butterflies which danced with her.And so the days slipped away, and she was fourteen years old.One morning the emperor's son went out to hunt, and he had not riddenfar, before a deer started from under a grove of trees, and ranbefore him. The prince instantly gave chase, and where the stag led hefollowed, till at length he found himself in the depths of the forest,where no man before had trod.The trees were so thick and the wood so dark, that he paused for amoment and listened, straining his ears to catch some sound to breaka silence which almost frightened him. But nothing came, not even thebaying of a hound or the note of a horn. He stood still, and wondered ifhe should go on, when, on looking up, a stream of light seemed to flowfrom the top of a tall tree. In its rays he could see the nest with theyoung eaglets, who were watching him over the side. The prince fittedan arrow into his bow and took his aim, but, before he could let fly,another ray of light dazzled him. so brilliant was it, that his bowdropped, and he covered his face with his hands. When at last heventured to peep, Wildrose, with her golden hair flowing round her, waslooking at him. This was the first time she had seen a man.'Tell me how I can reach you?' cried he. but Wildrose smiled and shookher head, and sat down quietly.The prince saw that it was no use, and turned and made his way out ofthe forest. But he might as well have stayed there, for any good he wasto his father, so full was his heart of longing for Wildrose. Twicehe returned to the forest in the hopes of finding her, but this timefortune failed him, and he went home as sad as ever.At length the emperor, who could not think what had caused this change,sent for his son and asked him what was the matter. Then the princeconfessed that the image of Wildrose filled his soul, and that he wouldnever be happy without her. At first the emperor felt rather distressed.He doubted whether a girl from a tree top would make a good empress.but he loved his son so much that he promised to do all he could to findher. So the next morning heralds were sent forth throughout the wholeland to inquire if anyone knew where a maiden could be found who livedin a forest on the top of a tree, and to promise great riches and aplace at court to any person who should find her. But nobody knew. Allthe girls in the kingdom had their homes on the ground, and laughed atthe notion of being brought up in a tree. 'A nice kind of empress shewould make,' they said, as the emperor had done, tossing their headswith disdain. for, having read many books, they guessed what she waswanted for.The heralds were almost in despair, when an old woman stepped out of thecrowd and came and spoke to them. She was not only very old, but she wasvery ugly, with a hump on her back and a bald head, and when the heraldssaw her they broke into rude laughter. 'I can show you the maiden wholives in the tree top,' she said, but they only laughed the more loudly.'Get away, old witch!' they cried, 'you will bring us bad luck'. but theold woman stood firm, and declared that she alone knew where to find themaiden.'Go with her,' said the eldest of the heralds at last. 'The emperor'sorders are clear, that whoever knew anything of the maiden was to comeat once to court. Put her in the coach and take her with us.'So in this fashion the old woman was brought to court.'You have declared that you can bring hither the maiden from the wood?'said the emperor, who was seated on his throne.'Yes, your Majesty, and I will keep my word,' said she.'Then bring her at once,' said the emperor.'Give me first a kettle and a tripod,' asked the old w omen, and theemperor ordered them to be brought instantly. The old woman picked themup, and tucking them under her arm went on her way, keeping at a littledistance behind the royal huntsmen, who in their turn followed theprince.Oh, what a noise that old woman made as she walked along! She chatteredto herself so fast and clattered her kettle so loudly that you wouldhave thought that a whole campful of gipsies must be coming round thenext corner. But when they reached the forest, she bade them all waitoutside, and entered the dark wood by herself.She stopped underneath the tree where the maiden dwelt and, gatheringsome dry sticks, kindled a fire. Next, she placed the tripod over it,and the kettle on top. But something was the matter with the kettle. Asfast as the old woman put it where it was to stand, that kettle was sureto roll off, falling to the ground with a crash.It really seemed bewitched, and no one knows what might have happenedif Wildrose, who had been all the time peeping out of her nest, had notlost patience at the old woman's stupidity, and cried out: 'The tripodwon't stand on that hill, you must move it!''But where am I to move it to, my child?' asked the old woman, lookingup to the nest, and at the same moment trying to steady the kettle withone hand and the tripod with the other.'Didn't I tell you that it was no good doing that,' said Wildrose, moreimpatiently than before. 'Make a fire near a tree and hang the kettlefrom one of the branches.'The old woman took the kettle and hung it on a little twig, which brokeat once, and the kettle fell to the ground.'If you would only show me how to do it, perhaps I should understand,'said she.Quick as thought, the maiden slid down the smooth trunk of the tree, andstood beside the stupid old woman, to teach her how things ought to bedone. But in an instant the old woman had caught up the girl and swungher over her shoulders, and was running as fast as she could go to theedge of the forest, where she had left the prince. When he saw themcoming he rushed eagerly to meet them, and he took the maiden in hisarms and kissed her tenderly before them all. Then a golden dress wasput on her, and pearls were twined in her hair, and she took her seat inthe emperor's carriage which was drawn by six of the whitest horses inthe world, and they carried her, without stopping to draw breath, to thegates of the palace. And in three days the wedding was celebrated, andthe wedding feast was held, and everyone who saw the bride declared thatif anybody wanted a perfect wife they must go to seek her on top of atree.