Version AOnce there lived a little pig in a very close little room. A wolf wouldcome by every day and try to fool the little pig out, so he could eat him.One morning the wolf called, but the pig did not answer him.The wolf was very sure the little pig was in there: so he said, "I knowwhere a plenty of grapes. You better come and go with me."When the wolf was gone, the little pig put out for the grapevine. By thattime the wolf came to the pig's home and called him again. He did notreceive any answer. Then he put out to the grape tree too. When the pigsaw the wolf, he hid in some moss on the tree. The wolf saw the pig beforehe got there. and when he got there, he called the pig, but he did not getany answer. By that time the wolf started to climb the tree. When he gotto the little pig, the little pig ran out and jumped and ran away, and gothome before the wolf caught him. By the time the little pig jumped in hisdoor and shut it, the wolf had his head in the door, and it caught hishead.He said to the pig, "Let me go! I will not hurt you."The pig opened the do' a little, and the wolf jumped in. The pig caughthim by the leg, but he was afeard: so he said, "Yonder come de dogs.""Let me in! Let me in! Hide me in the box! The dogs will catch me!" saidthe wolf. The pig did so, but he got angry and began to put holes in thebox."What are you doing? " said the wolf. "Putting holes so you can get air,"said the pig."Oh, indeed!" said the wolf.When the pig got the holes in the box, he put on some water. When it wasvery hot, he said, "Don't you want some cool water poured on yo' to mekyo' feel good?""Yes," said the wolf. So the pig po'ed hot water on him and killed him.Version BA long time ago Brer Wolf and Brer Rabbit were good friends, but for somereason or other they became deadly enemies. Brer Wolf decided to do BrerRabbit harm. Brer Rabbit staid in his house most of the time, so Brer Wolfcouldn't get at him. Wolf, however, thought of a way to get him out bystratagem. He knew that Brer Rabbit liked fruit: so he went to BrerRabbit's door one night, and told him he knew where some fine large applesgrew, and asked him if he would like to go and get some.Brer Rabbit very politely accepted the invitation, and agreed to go forthe apples next morning at five o'clock. Brer Wolf trotted off home todream of the sweet revenge he was going to have on Brer Rabbit, but BrerRabbit was on to his tricks.Promptly at three o'clock he went after his apples, and was back quite awhile before five o'clock. As the clocks struck five, Brer Wolf tapped onthe door. "Are you ready to go for dem apples, Brer Rabbit?" says 'e.Brer Rabbit says, "La', Brer Wolf, my watch said five o'clock long 'go,and I thought you wasn't comin', so Ise done been."Brer Wolf was so mad he couldn't stand still. but he did not give up hishope for revenge, so he told Brer Rabbit 'bout some peaches which werefarther away from Brer Rabbit's house than the apples. Brer Rabbit gladlyconsented to go, this time at four o'clock. but when Brer Wolf came afterhim next morning, he had been fooled again, and Brer Rabbit was insideenjoying his peaches.This time Brer Wolf was so mad dat his har turned gray, but he wouldn'tgive up. He decided to send Brer Rabbit on a fool's errand: so he told himabout some fine pears. They grew on a distant hill very far away. Therewa'n't no pears dere at all. Brer Wolf jest want to get Brer Rabbit out ofhis house one more time. They agreed to go at three o'clock this time.Brer Rabbit started out ahead of time, as usual. but Brer Wolf, who hadcaught on to him, started out early too. He first caught sight of BrerRabbit sittin' on de hill resting, den he kinder laughed up his sleevewhen he thought how tired he must be from walking so far, an' how mad hemust be for bein' fooled. After waiting a while, so's to catch his wind,he started out as if to speak to Brer Rabbit.Brer Rabbit knew there was trouble in the wind: so, as soon as he saw BrerWolf comin', he made a break for home. Right down de hill he went, andBrer Wolf started right behind him. It was a race for life. and BrerRabbit did his level best, while old Brer Wolf was equal to the occasion.They ran through cornfields, through woods and across fields, 'til theygot in sight of Brer Rabbit's house. The sight of the house gave BrerRabbit new courage and strength. so that he made a final break, and got inthe house and locked the door just as Brer Wolf rushed 'ginst it.Brer Wolf tried all of his force to open the door. and as he failed, hedecided to come down the chimney. Brer Rabbit had no intention of lettingany one come down the chimney after him: so he just set a big kettle ofboiling water right under the chimney. and when Brer Wolf dropped down, hewent smack into the kettle. Den Brer Rabbit slapped on de cover, and hehad Brer Wolf just where he wanted him.Brer Wolf make all kinds of whining entreaties for Brer Rabbit to let himout, but it wasn't no better for him. Brer Rabbit made a fine stew of BrerWolf, and eat applesauce and peaches along with him. After this he wentafter fruit whenever he got ready, without fear of being caught by BrerWolf.