standing near a certain lotus pond.Now at that time the water used to run short at the dry season in acertain pond, not over large, in which there were a good many fish.And a crane thought on seeing the fish:"I must outwit these fish somehow or other and make a prey of them."And he went and sat down at the edge of the water, thinking how heshould do it.When the fish saw him, they asked him, "What are you sitting therefor, lost in thought?""I am sitting thinking about you," said he."Oh, sir! what are you thinking about us?" said they."Why," he replied. "there is very little water in this pond, and butlittle for you to eat. and the heat is so great! So I was thinking,'What in the world will these fish do now?'""Yes, indeed, sir! what _are_ we to do?" said they."If you will only do as I bid you, I will take you in my beak to afine large pond, covered with all the kinds of lotuses, and put youinto it," answered the crane."That a crane should take thought for the fishes is a thing unheardof, sir, since the world began. It's eating us, one after the other,that you're aiming at.""Not I! So long as you trust me, I won't eat you. But if you don'tbelieve me that there is such a pond, send one of you with me to goand see it."Then they trusted him, and handed over to him one of their number abig fellow, blind of one eye, whom they thought sharp enough in anyemergency, afloat or ashore.Him the crane took with him, let him go in the pond, showed him thewhole of it, brought him back, and let him go again close to the otherfish. And he told them all the glories of the pond.And when they heard what he said, they exclaimed, "All right, sir! Youmay take us with you."Then the crane took the old purblind fish first to the bank of theother pond, and alighted in a Varana tree growing on the bank there.But he threw it into a fork of the tree, struck it with his beak, andkilled it. and then ate its flesh, and threw its bones away at thefoot of the tree. Then he went back and called out:"I've thrown that fish in. let another one come."And in that manner he took all the fish, one by one, and ate them,till he came back and found no more!But there was still a crab left behind there. and the crane thought hewould eat him too, and called out:"I say, good crab, I've taken all the fish away, and put them into afine large pond. Come along. I'll take you too!""But how will you take hold of me to carry me along?""I'll bite hold of you with my beak.""You'll let me fall if you carry me like that. I won't go with you!""Don't be afraid! I'll hold you quite tight all the way."Then said the crab to himself, "If this fellow once got hold of fish,he would never let them go in a pond! Now if he should really put meinto the pond, it would be capital. but if he doesn't then I'll cuthis throat, and kill him!" So he said to him:"Look here, friend, you won't be able to hold me tight enough. but wecrabs have a famous grip. If you let me catch hold of you round theneck with my claws, I shall be glad to go with you."And the other did not see that he was trying to outwit him, andagreed. So the crab caught hold of his neck with his claws as securelyas with a pair of blacksmith's pincers, and called out, "Off with you,now!"And the crane took him and showed him the pond, and then turned offtowards the Varana tree."Uncle!" cried the crab, "the pond lies that way, but you are takingme this way!""Oh, that's it, is it?" answered the crane. "Your dear little uncle,your very sweet nephew, you call me! You mean me to understand, Isuppose, that I am your slave, who has to lift you up and carry youabout with him! Now cast your eye upon the heap of fish bones lying atthe root of yonder Varana tree. Just as I have eaten those fish, everyone of them, just so I will devour you as well!""Ah! those fishes got eaten through their own stupidity," answered thecrab. "but I'm not going to let you eat _me_. On the contrary, is it_you_ that I am going to destroy. For you in your folly have not seenthat I was outwitting you. If we die, we die both together. for I willcut off this head of yours, and cast it to the ground!" And so saying,he gave the crane's neck a grip with his claws, as with a vice.Then gasping, and with tears trickling from his eyes, and tremblingwith the fear of death, the crane beseeched him, saying, "O my Lord!Indeed I did not intend to eat you. Grant me my life!""Well, well! step down into the pond, and put me in there."And he turned round and stepped down into the pond, and placed thecrab on the mud at its edge. But the crab cut through its neck asclean as one would cut a lotus stalk with a hunting knife, and thenonly entered the water!When the Genius who lived in the Varana tree saw this strange affair,he made the wood resound with his plaudits, uttering in a pleasantvoice the verse:"The villain, though exceeding clever,Shall prosper not by his villainy.He may win indeed, sharp witted in deceit,But only as the Crane here from the Crab!"