Once a poor cottager lived with his wife in a lonely hut outside thevillage. The man's name was Loppi, and the woman's name was Lappi. Itseems as though both of them had been born into misfortune, for nothingwent well for them. In the earlier years of their marriage God had giventhem children, but none of them were still alive to support the parents intheir old age.Every evening husband and wife sat next to the stove like two dried uptree stumps, and often, for no reason at all, their bitterness spilledover, and they quarreled. As everyone knows, unfortunate people usuallytry to push their own guilt onto others, and even if they are notwillfully evil, they blame others for their own bad luck.Thus Loppi often angrily said, "If only I had had the good luck to marry abetter woman, I would have lacked nothing. Today I could have been awealthy man."Lappi had an even quicker tongue, and for every one of her husband'swords, she came back with a dozen of her own. "Just look at you, youstupid lout! Of course it is partially my fault that in my child likesimplicity I did not know enough to choose a better husband, but theremust have been witchcraft involved to make me turn to you. Only the devilknows what you secretly put into my food or drink. I had plenty ofsuitors, and if I had not settled for you, you miserable creature, today Icould be a lady seated at a full table. It is your fault, you worthlessman, that I'll be suffering from hunger and sorrow until I die. And it isalso your fault that all our children have died, because you did not knowhow to take care of a wife and children."This stream of words gushed forth, not ceasing until the husband stoppedher mouth with his fist.One evening the couple were again quarrelling in their hut when a statelywoman dressed in clothes of German cut stepped inside. Her appearancebrought the wife's tongue to a standstill, and caused the husband to lowerhis raised arm.After a friendly greeting, the strange woman said, "You are poor wretchesand until now have suffered much. However, three days from now your miserywill suddenly end. Therefore keep peace in your house, and decide whatdestiny you would best choose for yourselves. I am not a human, as Iappear to you, but rather a higher being who, through God's power, cancause wishes to be fulfilled. You have three days' time for consideration,and then you may state three wishes that you desire. Say your wishesaloud, and in the same instant they will come true through magic power.But be careful not to wish for unnecessary things."Following these words, the stately woman greeting them once again, thendisappeared out the door in a flash.Loppi and Lappi, who had now forgotten their quarrel, stared speechlesslyout the door through which the miraculous vision had entered anddisappeared. Finally the husband said, "Let's go to bed now. We have threedays to think about this. We want to use these wishes wisely, so we canget the best luck for ourselves."Although they had three days for consideration, they spent more than halfthe night burdened with thoughts of which wish would be the very best. Oh,what precious freedom ruled in the hut without interruption for the nextthree days! Loppi and Lappi had become different people. They spoketogether friendlily, and looked after one another's needs. They spent thegreatest part of each day sitting quietly in the corner thinking aboutwhat they should wish for.On the third day Loppi went into the village, where that morning a swinehad been slaughtered, and the sausage kettle must just now be standing onthe fire. He took with him the butter pot, with its lid, wanting to askhis neighbor's wife for sausage water to cook his cabbage in that evening.Loppi felt that they would be able to think better if their stomachs werefilled with good food. Arriving home he put the cabbage on the fire sotheir meal would be ready at the right time.Evening arrived, and with it the time when they could make their wishes.The pot of cabbage soup was steaming on the table, and husband and wifesat down to eat. Now they could have their wishes fulfilled. They hadalready eaten several spoonfuls of the tasty soup when Lappi said,contentedly, "Thanks be to God for this good soup. It will fill us upnicely, but it would taste even better if we only had a sausage to go withit!"Bang! A large sausage fell from above onto the middle of the table. For awhile husband and wife were so startled that it did not occur to them toeat the sausage. Loppi remarked that with the sausage their first wish hadbeen fulfilled, and that so angered him that he shouted, "May the Evil Onegrab you and stick this sausage onto your nose! If...."But the poor man was too frightened to continue speaking, for the sausagewas already hanging from Lappi's nose, not like a normal sausage, but likea piece of flesh growing out of the nose. What could they do now? Twowishes had already been wasted, and the second one had so misshapen thewoman that she would not dare to be seen by other people. They still hadone wish that had not been stated, and with this one they could seteverything right. At this moment poor Lappi had no other desire than tofree herself from the long sausage, so she said this wish aloud, and thesausage disappeared.Now all three wishes were gone, and Loppi and Lappi had to continue livingpoorly in their hut. For some time afterward they expected the beautifulwoman to return, but the stranger never appeared again. Whoever fails totake immediate advantage of unexpected luck will lose it forever.