Once there was a king called King Dantal, who had a great many rupeesand soldiers and horses. He had also an only son called Prince Majnun,who was a handsome boy with white teeth, red lips, blue eyes, redcheeks, red hair, and a white skin. This boy was very fond of playingwith the Wazir's son, Husain Mahamat, in King Dantal's garden, whichwas very large and full of delicious fruits, and flowers, and trees.They used to take their little knives there and cut the fruits and eatthem. King Dantal had a teacher for them to teach them to read andwrite.One day, when they were grown two fine young men, Prince Majnun saidto his father, "Husain Mahamat and I should like to go and hunt." Hisfather said they might go, so they got ready their horses and all elsethey wanted for their hunting, and went to the Phalana country,hunting all the way, but they only founds jackals and birds.The Raja of the Phalana country was called Munsuk Raja, and he had adaughter named Laili, who was very beautiful. she had brown eyes andblack hair.One night, some time before Prince Majnun came to her father'skingdom, as she slept, Khuda sent to her an angel in the form of a manwho told her that she should marry Prince Majnun and no one else, andthat this was Khuda's command to her. When Laili woke she told herfather of the angel's visit to her as she slept. but her father paidno attention to her story. From that time she began repeating,"Majnun, Majnun. I want Majnun," and would say nothing else. Even asshe sat and ate her food she kept saying, "Majnun, Majnun. I wantMajnun." Her father used to get quite vexed with her. "Who is thisMajnun? who ever heard of this Majnun?" he would say."He is the man I am to marry," said Laili. "Khuda has ordered me tomarry no one but Majnun." And she was half mad.Meanwhile, Majnun and Husain Mahamat came to hunt in the Phalanacountry. and as they were riding about, Laili came out on her horse toeat the air, and rode behind them. All the time she kept saying,"Majnun, Majnun. I want Majnun." The prince heard her, and turnedround. "Who is calling me?" he asked. At this Laili looked at him, andthe moment she saw him she fell deeply in love with him, and she saidto herself, "I am sure that is the Prince Majnun that Khuda says I amto marry." And she went home to her father and said, "Father, I wishto marry the prince who has come to your kingdom. for I know he is thePrince Majnun I am to marry.""Very well, you shall have him for your husband," said Munsuk Raja."We will ask him to morrow." Laili consented to wait, although she wasvery impatient. As it happened, the prince left the Phalana kingdomthat night, and when Laili heard he was gone, she went quite mad. Shewould not listen to a word her father, or her mother, or her servantssaid to her, but went off into the jungle, and wandered from jungle tojungle, till she got farther and farther away from her own country.All the time she kept saying, "Majnun, Majnun. I want Majnun." and soshe wandered about for twelve years.At the end of the twelve years she met a fakir he was really anangel, but she did not know this who asked her, "Why do you alwayssay, 'Majnun, Majnun. I want Majnun'?" She answered, "I am thedaughter of the king of the Phalana country, and I want to find PrinceMajnun. tell me where his kingdom is.""I think you will never get there," said the fakir, "for it is veryfar from hence, and you have to cross many rivers to reach it." ButLaili said she did not care. she must see Prince Majnun. "Well," saidthe fakir, "when you come to the Bhagirathi river you will see a bigfish, a Rohu. and you must get him to carry you to Prince Majnun'scountry, or you will never reach it."She went on and on, and at last she came to the Bhagirathi river.There was a great big fish called the Rohu fish. It was yawning justas she got up to it, and she instantly jumped down its throat into itsstomach. All the time she kept saying, "Majnun, Majnun." At this theRohu fish was greatly alarmed and swam down the river as fast as hecould. By degrees he got tired and went slower, and a crow came andperched on his back, and said "Caw, caw." "Oh, Mr. Crow," said thepoor fish "do see what is in my stomach that makes such a noise.""Very well," said the crow, "open your mouth wide, and I'll fly downand see." So the Rohu opened his jaws and the crow flew down, but hecame up again very quickly. "You have a Rakshas in your stomach," saidthe crow, and he flew away. This news did not comfort the poor Rohu,and he swam on and on till he came to Prince Majnun's country. Therehe stopped. And a jackal came down to the river to drink. "Oh,jackal," said the Rohu, "do tell me what I have inside me.""How can I tell?" said the jackal. "I cannot see unless I go insideyou." So the Rohu opened his mouth wide, and the jackal jumped downhis throat. but he came up very quickly, looking much frightened andsaying, "You have a Rakshas in your stomach, and if I don't run awayquickly, I am afraid it will eat me." So off he ran. After the jackalcame an enormous snake. "Oh," says the fish, "do tell me what I havein my stomach, for it rattles about so, and keeps saying, 'Majnun,Majnun. I want Majnun.'"The snake said, "Open your mouth wide, and I'll go down and see whatit is." The snake went down: when he returned he said, "You have aRakshas in your stomach, but if you will let me cut you open, it willcome out of you." "If you do that, I shall die," said the Rohu. "Oh,no," said the snake, "you will not, for I will give you a medicinethat will make you quite well again." So the fish agreed, and thesnake got a knife and cut him open, and out jumped Laili.She was now very old. Twelve years she had wandered about the jungle,and for twelve years she had lived inside her Rohu. and she was nolonger beautiful, and had lost her teeth. The snake took her on hisback and carried her into the country, and there he put her down, andshe wandered on and on till she got to Majnun's court house, whereKing Majnun was sitting. There some men heard her crying, "Majnun,Majnun. I want Majnun," and they asked her what she wanted. "I wantKing Majnun," she said.So they went in and said to Prince Majnun, "An old woman outside saysshe wants you." "I cannot leave this place," said he. "send her inhere." They brought her in and the prince asked her what she wanted."I want to marry you," she answered. "Twenty four years ago you cameto my father the Phalana Raja's country, and I wanted to marry youthen. but you went away without marrying me. Then I went mad, and Ihave wandered about all these years looking for you." Prince Majnunsaid, "Very good.""Pray to Khuda," said Laili, "to make us both young again, and then weshall be married." So the prince prayed to Khuda, and Khuda said tohim, "Touch Laili's clothes and they will catch fire, and when theyare on fire, she and you will become young again." When he touchedLaili's clothes they caught fire, and she and he became young again.And there were great feasts, and they were married, and travelled tothe Phalana country to see her father and mother.Now Laili's father and mother had wept so much for their daughter thatthey had become quite blind, and her father kept always repeating,"Laili, Laili, Laili." When Laili saw their blindness, she prayed toKhuda to restore their sight to them, which he did. As soon as thefather and mother saw Laili, they hugged her and kissed her, and thenthey had the wedding all over again amid great rejoicings. PrinceMajnun and Laili stayed with Munsuk Raja and his wife for three years,and then they returned to King Dantal, and lived happily for some timewith him.They used to go out hunting, and they often went from country tocountry to eat the air and amuse themselves.One day Prince Majnun said to Laili, "Let us go through this jungle.""No, no," said Laili. "if we go through this jungle, some harm willhappen to me." But Prince Majnun laughed, and went into the jungle.And as they were going through it, Khuda thought, "I should like toknow how much Prince Majnun loves his wife. Would he be very sorry ifshe died? And would he marry another wife? I will see." So he sent oneof his angels in the form of a fakir into the jungle. and the angelwent up to Laili, and threw some powder in her face, and instantly shefell to the ground a heap of ashes.Prince Majnun was in great sorrow and grief when he saw his dear Lailiturned into a little heap of ashes. and he went straight home to hisfather, and for a long, long time he would not be comforted. After agreat many years he grew more cheerful and happy, and began to goagain into his father's beautiful garden with Husain Mahamat. KingDantal wished his son to marry again. "I will only have Laili for mywife. I will not marry any other woman," said Prince Majnun."How can you marry Laili? Laili is dead. She will never come back toyou," said the father."Then I'll not have any wife at all," said Prince Majnun.Meanwhile Laili was living in the jungle where her husband had lefther a little heap of ashes. As soon as Majnun had gone, the fakir hadtaken her ashes and made them quite clean, and then he had mixed clayand water with the ashes, and made the figure of a woman with them,and so Laili regained her human form, and Khuda sent life into it. ButLaili had become once more a hideous old woman, with a long, longnose, and teeth like tusks. just such an old woman, excepting herteeth, as she had been when she came out of the Rohu fish. and shelived in the jungle, and neither ate nor drank, and she kept onsaying, "Majnun, Majnun. I want Majnun."At last the angel who had come as a fakir and thrown the powder ather, said to Khuda, "Of what use is it that this woman should sit inthe jungle crying, crying for ever, 'Majnun, Majnun. I want Majnun,'and eating and drinking nothing? Let me take her to Prince Majnun.""Well," said Khuda, "you may do so. but tell her that she must notspeak to Majnun if he is afraid of her when he sees her. and that ifhe is afraid when he sees her, she will become a little white dog thenext day. Then she must go to the palace, and she will only regain herhuman shape when Prince Majnun loves her, feeds her with his own food,and lets her sleep in his bed."So the angel came to Laili again as a fakir and carried her to KingDantal's garden. "Now," he said, "it is Khuda's command that you stayhere till Prince Majnun comes to walk in the garden, and then you mayshow yourself to him. But you must not speak to him, if he is afraidof you. and should he be afraid of you, you will the next day become alittle white dog." He then told her what she must do as a little dogto regain her human form.Laili stayed in the garden, hidden in the tall grass, till PrinceMajnun and Husain Mahamat came to walk in the garden. King Dantal wasnow a very old man, and Husain Mahamat, though he was really only asold as Prince Majnun, looked a great deal older than the prince, whohad been made quite young again when he married Laili.As Prince Majnun and the Wazir's son walked in the garden, theygathered the fruit as they had done as little children, only they bitthe fruit with their teeth. they did not cut it. While Majnun was busyeating a fruit in this way, and was talking to Husain Mahamat, heturned towards him and saw Laili walking behind the Wazir's son. "Oh,look, look!" he cried, "see what is following you. it is a Rakshas ora demon, and I am sure it is going to eat us." Laili looked at himbeseechingly with all her eyes, and trembled with age and eagerness.but this only frightened Majnun the more. "It is a Rakshas, aRakshas!" he cried, and he ran quickly to the palace with the Wazir'sson. and as they ran away, Laili disappeared into the jungle. They ranto King Dantal, and Majnun told him there was a Rakshas or a demon inthe garden that had come to eat them."What nonsense," said his father. "Fancy two grown men being sofrightened by an old ayah or a fakir! And if it had been a Rakshas, itwould not have eaten you." Indeed King Dantal did not believe Majnunhad seen anything at all, till Husain Mahamat said the prince wasspeaking the exact truth. They had the garden searched for theterrible old woman, but found nothing, and King Dantal told his son hewas very silly to be so much frightened. However, Prince Majnun wouldnot walk in the garden any more.The next day Laili turned into a pretty little dog. and in this shapeshe came into the palace, where Prince Majnun soon became very fond ofher. She followed him everywhere, went with him when he was outhunting, and helped him to catch his game, and Prince Majnun fed herwith milk, or bread, or anything else he was eating, and at night thelittle dog slept in his bed.But one night the little dog disappeared, and in its stead there laythe little old woman who had frightened him so much in the garden. andnow Prince Majnun was quite sure she was a Rakshas, or a demon, orsome such horrible thing come to eat him. and in his terror he criedout, "What do you want? Oh, do not eat me. do not eat me!" Poor Lailianswered, "Don't you know me? I am your wife Laili, and I want tomarry you. Don't you remember how you would go through that jungle,though I begged and begged you not to go, for I told you that harmwould happen to me, and then a fakir came and threw powder in my face,and I became a heap of ashes. But Khuda gave me my life again, andbrought me here, after I had stayed a long, long while in the junglecrying for you, and now I am obliged to be a little dog. but if youwill marry me, I shall not be a little dog any more." Majnun, however,said "How can I marry an old woman like you? how can you be Laili? Iam sure you are a Rakshas or a demon come to eat me," and he was ingreat terror.In the morning the old woman had turned into the little dog, and theprince went to his father and told him all that had happened. "An oldwoman! an old woman! always an old woman!" said his father. "You donothing but think of old women. How can a strong man like you be soeasily frightened?" However, when he saw that his son was really ingreat terror, and that he really believed the old woman would cameback at night, he advised him to say to her, "I will marry you if youcan make yourself a young girl again. How can I marry such an oldwoman as you are?"That night as he lay trembling in bed the little old woman lay therein place of the dog, crying "Majnun, Majnun, I want to marry you. Ihave loved you all these long, long years. When I was in my father'skingdom a young girl, I knew of you, though you knew nothing of me,and we should have been married then if you had not gone away sosuddenly, and for long, long years I followed you." "Well," saidMajnun, "if you can make yourself a young girl again, I will marryyou."Laili said, "Oh, that is quite easy. Khuda will make me a young girlagain. In two days' time you must go into the garden, and there youwill see a beautiful fruit. You must gather it and bring it into yourroom and cut it open yourself very gently, and you must not open itwhen your father or anybody else is with you, but when you are quitealone. for I shall be in the fruit quite naked, without any clothes atall on." In the morning Laili took her little dog's form, anddisappeared in the garden.Prince Majnun told all this to his father, who told him to do all theold woman had bidden him. In two days' time he and the Wazir's sonwalked in the garden, and there they saw a large, lovely red fruit."Oh!" said the Prince, "I wonder shall I find my wife in that fruit."Husain Mahamat wanted him to gather it and see, but he would not tillhe had told his father, who said, "That must be the fruit. go andgather it." So Majnun went back and broke the fruit off its stalk. andhe said to his father, "Come with me to my room while I open it. I amafraid to open it alone, for perhaps I shall find a Rakshas in it thatwill eat me.""No," said King Dantal. "remember, Laili will be naked. you must goalone and do not be afraid if, after all, a Rakshas is in the fruit,for I will stay outside the door, and you have only to call me with aloud voice, and I will come to you, so the Rakshas will not be able toeat you."Then Majnun took the fruit and began to cut it open tremblingly, forhe shook with fear. and when he had cut it, out stepped Laili, youngand far more beautiful than she had ever been. At the sight of herextreme beauty, Majnun fell backwards fainting on the floor.Laili took off his turban and wound it all round herself like a sari(for she had no clothes at all on), and then she called King Dantal,and said to him sadly, "Why has Majnun fallen down like this? Why willhe not speak to me? He never used to be afraid of me. and he has seenme so many, many times."King Dantal answered, "It is because you are so beautiful. You arefar, far more beautiful than you ever were. But he will be very happydirectly." Then the King got some water, and they bathed Majnun's faceand gave him some to drink, and he sat up again.Then Laili said, "Why did you faint? Did you not see I am Laili?""Oh!" said Prince Majnun, "I see you are Laili come back to me, butyour eyes have grown so wonderfully beautiful, that I fainted when Isaw them." Then they were all very happy, and King Dantal had all thedrums in the place beaten, and had all the musical instruments playedon, and they made a grand wedding feast, and gave presents to theservants, and rice and quantities of rupees to the fakirs.After some time had passed very happily, Prince Majnun and his wifewent out to eat the air. They rode on the same horse, and had only agroom with them. They came to another kingdom, to a beautiful garden."We must go into that garden and see it," said Majnun."No, no," said Laili. "it belongs to a bad Raja, Chumman Basa, a verywicked man." But Majnun insisted on going in, and in spite of allLaili could say, he got off the horse to look at the flowers. Now, ashe was looking at the flowers, Laili saw Chumman Basa coming towardsthem, and she read in his eyes that he meant to kill her husband andseize her. So she said to Majnun, "Come, come, let us go. do not gonear that bad man. I see in his eyes, and I feel in my heart, that hewill kill you to seize me.""What nonsense," said Majnun. "I believe he is a very good Raja.Anyhow, I am so near to him that I could not get away.""Well," said Laili, "it is better that you should be killed than I,for if I were to be killed a second time, Khuda would not give me mylife again. but I can bring you to life if you are killed." NowChumman Basa had come quite near, and seemed very pleasant, so thoughtPrince Majnun. but when he was speaking to Majnun, he drew hisscimitar and cut off the prince's head at one blow.Laili sat quite still on her horse, and as the Raja came towards hershe said, "Why did you kill my husband?""Because I want to take you," he answered."You cannot," said Laili."Yes, I can," said the Raja."Take me, then," said Laili to Chumman Basa. so he came quite closeand put out his hand to take hers to lift her off her horse. But sheput her hand in her pocket and pulled out a tiny knife, only as longas her hand was broad, and this knife unfolded itself in one instanttill it was such a length! and then Laili made a great sweep with herarm and her long, long knife, and off came Chumman Basa's head at onetouch.Then Laili slipped down off her horse, and she went to Majnun's deadbody, and she cut her little finger inside her hand straight down fromthe top of her nail to her palm, and out of this gushed blood likehealing medicine. Then she put Majnun's head on his shoulders, andsmeared her healing blood all over the wound, and Majnun woke up andsaid, "What a delightful sleep I have had! Why, I feel as if I hadslept for years!" Then he got up and saw the Raja's dead body byLaili's horse."What's that?" said Majnun."That is the wicked Raja who killed you to seize me, just as I said hewould.""Who killed him?" asked Majnun."I did," answered Laili, "and it was I who brought you to life.""Do bring the poor man to life if you know how to do so," said Majnun."No," said Laili, "for he is a wicked man, and will try to do youharm." But Majnun asked her for such a long time, and so earnestly tobring the wicked Raja to life, that at least she said, "Jump up on thehorse, then, and go far away with the groom.""What will you do," said Majnun, "if I leave you? I cannot leave you.""I will take care of myself," said Laili. "but this man is so wicked,he may kill you again if you are near him." So Majnun got up on thehorse, and he and the groom went a long way off and waited for Laili.Then she set the wicked Raja's head straight on his shoulders, andshe squeezed the wound in her finger till a little blood medicinecame out of it. Then she smeared this over the place where her knifehad passed, and just as she saw the Raja opening his eyes, she beganto run, and she ran, and ran so fast, that she outran the Raja, whotried to catch her. and she sprang up on the horse behind her husband,and they rode so fast, so fast, till they reached King Dantal'spalace.There Prince Majnun told everything to his father, who was horrifiedand angry. "How lucky for you that you have such a wife," he said."Why did you not do what she told you? But for her, you would be nowdead." Then he made a great feast out of gratitude for his son'ssafety, and gave many, many rupees to the fakirs. And he made so muchof Laili. He loved her dearly. he could not do enough for her. Then hebuilt a splendid palace for her and his son, with a great deal ofground about it, and lovely gardens, and gave them great wealth, andheaps of servants to wait on them. But he would not allow any buttheir servants to enter their gardens and palace, and he would notallow Majnun to go out of them, nor Laili. "for," said King Dantal,"Laili is so beautiful, that perhaps some one may kill my son to takeher away."