Once upon a time there was a man whose wife died, and he had only a littledaughter, whose name was Maria.Maria went to school to a woman who taught her sewing and knitting. In theevening when she left for home the woman would always say to her, "Giveyour father my kindest greetings."Because of these friendly greetings the man thought, "She would be a wifefor me," and he married the woman.After they were married, the woman became very unfriendly toward poorMaria, for stepmothers have always been that way, and with time she couldnot stand her at all.Then she said to her husband, "The girl eats too much of our bread. Wewill have to get rid of her."But the man said, "I cannot kill my child!"Then the woman said, "Tomorrow take her with you out into the country andleave her there alone, so that she will not be able to find her way backhome."The next day the man called his daughter and said to her, "We are goingout into the country. We will take something to eat with us."Then he got a large loaf of bread, and they set forth. However, Maria wasclever, and she filled her pockets with bran. As she walked along behindher father, from time to time she threw down a little pile of bran ontothe pathway. After walking for many hours they came to the top of a steepcliff. Her father dropped the loaf of bread over the cliff, then criedout, "Oh, Maria, our bread fell down there!""Father," said Maria, "I will climb down and get it."So she climbed down the cliff and got the bread, but by the time she hadclimbed back up to the top, her father had gone away, and Maria was allalone.She started to cry, for she was very far from home, and in a strangeplace. But then she thought about the bran and took courage. Following thebran, she finally arrived home again, late that night."Oh, father," she said, "why did you leave me alone?"The man comforted her and talked to her until he had reassured her.The stepmother was very angry that Maria had found the way back, and sometime later she again told her husband that he should take Maria out intothe country and abandon her in the woods.The next morning the man called his daughter once again, and they setforth. The father again carried a loaf of bread, but Maria forgot to takethe bran with her. In the woods they came to an even steeper and highercliff. The father again dropped the bread over the edge, and Maria had toclimb down to get it. When she arrived back at the top, her father hadgone away, and she was alone. She began to cry bitterly, and she ran oneway and the other for a long time, only to find herself even deeper in thedark woods.Evening came, and suddenly she saw a light. She walked toward it and cameto a little house. Inside she found a set table and seven beds, but nopeople were there.The house belonged to seven robbers.Maria hid behind a dough trough, and soon the seven robbers returned home.They ate and drank, and then went to bed. The next morning they left, butthe youngest brother remained at home in order to cook the food and cleanthe house. After they had left, the youngest brother went out to buy food.Then Maria came out from behind the dough trough, swept and cleaned thehouse, and then put the kettle on the fire in order to cook the beans.Then once again she hid behind the dough trough.When the youngest brother returned home he was amazed to see everything soclean, and when his brothers came back, he told them what had happened.They were all astonished and could not imagine how it had happened. Thenext day the second brother remained at home alone. He pretended that hetoo was going away, but he returned at once and saw Maria, who had comeout once again to clean up the house.Maria was frightened when she saw the robber. "Oh," she begged, " forheaven's sake, do not kill me!""Who are you?" asked the robber.Then she told him about her wicked stepmother, and how her father hadabandoned her in the woods, and how for two days she had been hidingbehind the dough trough."You don't have to be afraid of us," said the robber. "Stay here with usand be our sister, and cook, sew, and wash for us."When the other brothers returned home, they were satisfied with this, soMaria stayed with the seven robbers, did their housekeeping, and wasalways quiet and diligent.One day as she was sitting by the window sewing, a poor old woman came byand asked for alms."Oh," said Maria, "I don't have much, for I myself am a poor, unhappygirl, but I will give you what I have.""Why are you so unhappy?" asked the beggar woman.Then Maria told her how she had left home and had come here. The poorwoman went forth and told the wicked stepmother that Maria was stillalive. When the stepmother heard this she was very angry, and she gave thebeggar woman a ring that she was to take to poor Maria. The ring was amagic ring.Eight days later the poor woman came again to Maria to beg for alms, andwhen Maria gave her something, she said, "Look, my child, I have here abeautiful ring. Because you have been so good to me, I want to give it toyou."Suspecting nothing, Maria took the ring, but when she put it on her fingershe fell down dead.When the robbers returned home and found Maria on the floor, they werevery sad, and they cried bitterly for her. Then they made a beautifulcoffin and laid Maria inside it, after having adorned her with the mostbeautiful jewelry. They also put a large amount of gold in the coffin,which they then set on an oxcart. They drove the oxcart into the city.When they came to the king's castle they saw that the stall door was wideopen. They drove the oxen inside, in order to bring the cart into thestall. This caused the horses to become very uneasy, and they beganrearing up and making noise.Hearing the noise, the king sent someone down to ask the stall master whathad happened. The stall master answered that a cart had been driven intothe stall. No one was with the cart, but on it there was a beautifulcoffin.The king ordered that the coffin be brought to his room, and there he hadit opened. When he saw the beautiful dead girl inside, he began to crybitterly, and he could not leave her. He had four large wax candlesbrought and had them placed at the four corners of the coffin and lit.Then he sent everyone out of the room, barred the door, fell onto hisknees before the coffin, and wept hot tears.When it was time to eat, his mother sent for him, asking him to come. Hedid not answer at once, but instead wept all the more fervently. Then theold queen herself came and knocked on the door and asked him to open it,but he did not answer. She looked through the keyhole, and when she sawthat her son was kneeling next to a corpse, she had the door broken down.However, when she saw the beautiful girl, she herself was very moved, andshe leaned over Maria and took her hand. Seeing the beautiful ring, shethought that it would be a shame to let it be buried along with thecorpse, so she pulled it off. Then all at once the dead Maria came to lifeagain.The young king said joyfully to his mother, "This girl shall be mywife!"The old queen answered, "Yes, so shall it be!" and she embraced Maria.Thus Maria became the king's wife, and the queen. They lived joyfully andin splendor until they died.