Through acts of generosity and the costs of waging war, Saladindepleted his treasury. Caught by a sudden need for money, he thought of awealthy Jew, Melchizedek by name, who lived in Alexandria. But Melchizedekhad a reputation for miserliness, and he would never voluntarily surrenderthe vast sum needed by Saladin, nor was the Sultan prepared to take themoney by force. At last Saladin devised a plan whereby he would embarrassthe wealthy Jew, who would then redeem himself with money.Accordingly, Saladin summoned Melchizedek to his palace, then stated,"Men speak highly of your wisdom. What conclusion have you reachedconcerning the ways of God? Which of the three great religions is thetruly authentic one? Judaism, Christianity, or Islam?"Sensing that with this question Saladin was seeking to lead him into anunwinnable quarrel and thus gain advantage over him, Melchizedek answered,"That is an excellent question, my lord. I can best explain my views onthe subject with the following story:"I have heard that there was once a wealthy man whose most prizedpossession was a precious ring. He bequeathed this ring to one of hissons, and by this sign, the latter was known as the head of family.Succeeding generations followed this tradition, with the principal heiralways inheriting the cherished ring from his father. But, to make a longstory short, the ring finally came into the possession of a man who hadthree sons, each the equal of the others in obedience, virtue, andworthiness. Unwilling to favor one son over the others, the father had amaster artisan make two copies of the valued ring, and he bequeathed aring to each son.Following the father's death, each son laid claim to the deceased man'stitle and estate, showing the inherited ring as proof. However, a carefulinspection of the three rings could not reveal which of them was theauthentic one, so the three sons' claims remain unresolved.The same is true with the three great religions, Judaism, Christianity,and Islam. The adherents of each religion consider themselves to be thelegitimate heirs of God's truth. But as was the case with the rings, theirclaims too remain unresolved.Saladin, recognizing that the Jew had escaped his trap, decided to askhim directly for a loan. Melchizedek gladly provided him with the sum heneeded. The Sultan later repaid the debt in full, and Saladin andMelchizedek remained friends as long as they lived.