In Baden there is a forest named Stollenwald, and in this forest, atopStollenberg Mountain, are the ruins of an old castle. Stauffenberg Palacestands nearby. In this palace there once lived a magistrate's son who tookgreat pleasure in capturing birds. One day he went into the woods to traptitmice. There he heard a beautiful voice descending from Stollenbergmountain. Following it, he saw the most lovely image of a woman, whichcalled out to him:Redeem me, redeem me!Just kiss me three times three!"Who are you then?" called the youth, and the specter said:Melusina is my name,The daughter of heavenly song!Early in the ninth hour,Fearlessly kiss my mouth and my cheeks,Then I shall be redeemed,And be with you, my beloved bridegroom!Looking at the miraculous being more closely, the youth saw thatMelusina had a marvelously beautiful face, blue eyes, and blond hair. Herupper body too was wonderfully proportioned, but not her hands and feet.Her hands had no fingers, resembling instead small open bags, and she hadno feet at all, but rather a snake's body. Nonetheless, the youthfearlessly gave the specter the first three kisses. She expressed joy inthis, like the maiden in the heathen's cave with her first kiss, and thenshe disappeared.The next morning the lover returned and followed the seductively sweetsong that sounded toward him. Finding her, he saw that she now had wings.Her snake's body was speckled green and ended with a dragon's tail. ButMelusina's eyes and face emanated such beauty, and her mouth was soseductive, that he was overcome by desire, and he again gave her threekisses. She quivered with lust and desire, flapping her wings about hishead.That night the youth could scarcely close his eyes. All his thoughtswere with the glowing, sensuously beautiful figure. Before daybreak hewent into the woods and followed the sweet songful voice. But alas! Wherewas the lovely angel face? It was transformed and looked just like themaiden on the toad chair, for Melusina now had a toad's head, and thelover was supposed to kiss it as though nothing had happened. But instead,he turned his heels and ran away as fast as he could. Behind him he hearda rushing sound and cries of anguish.He never again went to Stollenberg Mountain. On the contrary, he becameengaged to a girl who, although not as magically beautiful as Melusina,nonetheless did not have a toad's head and a snake's body.The wedding feast at Stauffenberg Palace was ready, and everyone wascelebrating, when a small crack opened in the ceiling. A dew like dropfell into the serving dish, but no one saw it. And anyone who took a biteonto which the drop had fallen fell down dead. And from above a smallsnake's tail emerged through the crack in the ceiling.That was the end of the wedding celebration.On another occasion Melusina appeared to a shepherd girl. At length sheled the girl into Stollenberg Mountain. Showing her underground treasures,she told the shepherd girl that they would be hers if she could bringabout her disenchantment. The girl was unable to keep this secret, and thepriest threatened her with church sanctions if she continued to communewith the specter. This silenced the shepherd girl, and the disenchantmentwas not fulfilled.A double fir tree growing from a single root still stands near theplace they call "the twelve stones." It is called "the Melusina tree."In keeping with this Swabian legend, the name Melusina refers not onlyto water sprites but to mountain and forest sprites as well.