Bill Robertson, age 71, residing in Lerwick, soberly narrated thistrustworthy story:My mother, God rest her soul, told me this, and she neither could norwould have told me a lie. She was staying with friends atKirgood a Weisdale. one night at about twilight the man of the house wasvery concerned, for his honest wife had just had a pretty baby.And now, my lamb that you are, what should he hear just as he was goingto leave the lamb house, but three most unearthly knocks, the same as ifit had been from under the ground. Now, he didn't know what this couldbe, but he took hold of himself and went up to the corn yard, and as hecomes in sight of the granary he hears a voice that said three times,"Mind the crooked finger."Now, his wife had a crooked finger, and he knew very well that somethingwas going to happen, for his gray neighbors were on the watch for thehelpless infant, or mother, or both. So he comes into the house, andlights a candle, takes down the Bible, and a steel knife. He opens thebook and the knife, when such a roaring and trolling, and unearthlystamping and rattling, and confusion comes from the cow barn that madethe whole house shake. And everybody fell a quaking.Now, he takes the open Bible, and makes for the cow barn, and those thatwere in the house follow him trembling and quaking, only the wise womanbeing left with the poor wife and infant. Now, when he gets to the door,he heaves in the Bible before him, sticks the open knife in his mouth,edge outwards, and the burning candle in one of his hands. That instantthe trolling was done and the noise and din ceased all of a sudden, andthe image that had been prepared to put in the place of the poor wife andinnocent pretty lamb was all that was left in the cow barn."Well," says the man of the house, as he gripped in his arms the verylikeness of his wife that the trolls had left in the cow barn, "I'vetaken you, and I'll use you." Well, he took into the house the imageleft by the trolls, and it had every joint and part of a woman. And mymother told me she saw it, and the honest folk for many a year, and theirchildren after them, sat upon the stock, or image, or likeness. andthings was set on it, and wood was sawn on it.And that's as true as I'm speaking to you, and not a borrowed orhanded down story. for my mother told me it with her own lips, and shewould not have told me a lie."