THERE was once upon a time a couple of needy folk who lived in awretched hut, in which there was nothing but black want. so they hadneither food to eat nor wood to burn. But if they had next to nothing ofall else they had the blessing of God so far as children were concerned,and every year brought them one more. The man was not overpleased atthis. He was always going about grumbling and growling, and saying thatit seemed to him that there might be such a thing as having too many ofthese good gifts. so shortly before another baby was born he went awayinto the wood for some firewood, saying that he did not want to see thenew child. he would hear him quite soon enough when he began to squallfor some food.As soon as this baby was born it began to look about the room. 'Ah, mydear mother!' said he, 'give me some of my brothers' old clothes, andfood enough for a few days, and I will go out into the world and seek myfortune, for, so far as I can see, you have children enough.''Heaven help thee, my son!' said the mother, 'that will never do. thouart still far too little.'But the little creature was determined to do it, and begged and prayedso long that the mother was forced to let him have some old rags, andtie up a little food for him, and then gaily and happily he went outinto the world.But almost before he was out of the house another boy was born, and hetoo looked about him, and said, 'Ah, my dear mother! give me some of mybrothers' old clothes, and food for some days, and then I will go outinto the world and find my twin brother, for you have children enough.''Heaven help thee, little creature! thou art far too little for that,'said the woman. 'it would never do.'But she spoke to no purpose, for the boy begged and prayed until hehad got some old rags and a bundle of provisions, and then he set outmanfully into the world to find his twin brother.When the younger had walked for some time he caught sight of his brothera short distance in front of him, and called to him and bade him tostop.'Wait a minute,' he said. 'you are walking as if for a wager, but youought to have stayed to see your younger brother before you hurried offinto the world.'So the elder stood still and looked back, and when the younger had gotup to him, and had told him that he was his brother, he said: 'But now,let us sit down and see what kind of food our mother has given us,' andthat they did.When they had walked on a little farther they came to a brook which ranthrough a green meadow, and there the younger said that they ought tochristen each other. 'As we had to make such haste, and had no time todo it at home, we may as well do it here,' said he.'What will you be called?' asked the elder.'I will be called Minnikin,' answered the second. 'and you, what willyou be called?''I will be called King Pippin,' answered the elder.They christened each other and then went onwards. When they had walkedfor some time they came to a crossway, and there they agreed to part,and each take his own road. This they did, but no sooner had they walkeda short distance than they met again. So they parted once more, andeach took his own road, but in a very short time the same thing happenedagain they met each other before they were at all aware, and so ithappened the third time also. Then they arranged with each other thateach should choose his own quarter, and one should go east and the otherwest.'But if ever you fall into any need or trouble,' said the elder, 'callme thrice, and I will come and help you. only you must not call me untilyou are in the utmost need.''In that case we shall not see each other for some time,' said Minnikin.so they bade farewell to each other, and Minnikin went east and KingPippin went west.When Minnikin had walked a long way alone, he met an old, oldcrook backed hag, who had only one eye. Minnikin stole it.'Oh! oh!' cried the old hag, 'what has become of my eye?''What will you give me to get your eye back?' said Minnikin.'I will give thee a sword which is such a sword that it can conquer awhole army, let it be ever so great,' replied the woman.'Let me have it, then,' said Minnikin.The old hag gave him the sword, so she got her eye back. Then Minnikinwent onwards, and when he had wandered on for some time he again metan old, old crook backed hag, who had only one eye. Minnikin stole itbefore she was aware.'Oh! oh! what has become of my eye?' cried the old hag.'What will you give me to get your eye back?' said Minnikin.'I will give thee a ship which can sail over fresh water and salt water,over high hills and deep dales,' answered the old woman.'Let me have it then,' said Minnikin.So the old woman gave him a little bit of a ship which was no biggerthan he could put in his pocket, and then she got her eye back, and shewent her way and Minnikin his. When he had walked on for a long time,he met for the third time an old, old crook backed hag, who had onlyone eye. This eye also Minnikin stole, and when the woman screamed andlamented, and asked what had become of her eye, Minnikin said, 'Whatwill you give me to get your eye back?''I will give thee the art to brew a hundred lasts of malt in onebrewing.'So, for teaching that art, the old hag got her eye back, and they bothwent away by different roads.But when Minnikin had walked a short distance, it seemed to him that itmight be worth while to see what his ship could do. so he took it out ofhis pocket, and first he put one foot into it, and then the other, andno sooner had he put one foot into the ship than it became much larger,and when he set the other foot into it, it grew as large as ships thatsail on the sea.Then Minnikin said: 'Now go over fresh water and salt water, over highhills and deep dales, and do not stop until thou comest to the King'spalace.'And in an instant the ship went away as swiftly as any bird in the airtill it got just below the King's palace, and there it stood still.From the windows of the King's palace many persons had seen Minnikincome sailing thither, and had stood to watch him. and they were all soastounded that they ran down to see what manner of man this could be whocame sailing in a ship through the air. But while they were running downfrom the King's palace, Minnikin had got out of the ship and had putit in his pocket again. for the moment he got out of it, it once morebecame as small as it had been when he got it from the old woman, andthose who came from the King's palace could see nothing but a raggedlittle boy who was standing down by the sea shore. The King asked wherehe had come from, but the boy said he did not know, nor yet couldhe tell them how he had got there, but he begged very earnestly andprettily for a place in the King's palace. If there was nothing else forhim to do, he said he would fetch wood and water for the kitchen maid,and that he obtained leave to do.When Minnikin went up to the King's palace he saw that everything therewas hung with black both outside and inside, from the bottom to the top.so he asked the kitchen maid what that meant.'Oh, I will tell you that,' answered the kitchen maid. 'The King'sdaughter was long ago promised away to three Trolls, and next Thursdayevening one of them is to come to fetch her. Ritter Red has said that hewill be able to set her free, but who knows whether he will be ableto do it? so you may easily imagine what grief and distress we are inhere.'So when Thursday evening came, Ritter Red accompanied the Princess tothe sea shore. for there she was to meet the Troll, and Ritter Red wasto stay with her and protect her. He, however, was very unlikely to dothe Troll much injury, for no sooner had the Princess seated herselfby the sea shore than Ritter Red climbed up into a great tree which wasstanding there, and hid himself as well as he could among the branches.The Princess wept, and begged him most earnestly not to go and leaveher. but Ritter Red did not concern himself about that. 'It is betterthat one should die than two,' said he.In the meantime Minnikin begged the kitchen maid very prettily to givehim leave to go down to the strand for a short time.'Oh, what could you do down at the strand?' said the kitchen maid. 'Youhave nothing to do there.''Oh yes, my dear, just let me go,' said Minnikin. 'I should so like togo and amuse myself with the other children.''Well, well, go then!' said the kitchen maid, 'but don't let me find youstaying there over the time when the pan has to be set on the fire forsupper, and the roast put on the spit. and mind you bring back a goodbig armful of wood for the kitchen.'Minnikin promised this, and ran down to the sea shore.Just as he got to the place where the King's daughter was sitting, theTroll came rushing up with a great whistling and whirring, and he was sobig and stout that he was terrible to see, and he had five heads.'Fire!' screeched the Troll.'Fire yourself!' said Minnikin.'Can you fight?' roared the Troll.'If not, I can learn,' said Minnikin.So the Troll struck at him with a great thick iron bar which he had inhis fist, till the sods flew five yards up into the air.'Fie!' said Minnikin. 'That was not much of a blow. Now you shall seeone of mine.'So he grasped the sword which he had got from the old crook backedwoman, and slashed at the Troll so that all five heads went flying awayover the sands.When the Princess saw that she was delivered she was so delighted thatshe did not know what she was doing, and skipped and danced.'Come and sleep a bit with your head in my lap,' she said to Minnikin,and as he slept she put a golden dress on him.But when Ritter Red saw that there was no longer any danger afoot, helost no time in creeping down from the tree. He then threatened thePrincess, until at length she was forced to promise to say that it washe who had rescued her, for he told her that if she did not he wouldkill her. Then he took the Troll's lungs and tongue and put them in hispocket handkerchief, and led the Princess back to the King's palace.and whatsoever had been lacking to him in the way of honour before waslacking no longer, for the King did not know how to exalt him enough,and always set him on his own right hand at table.As for Minnikin, first he went out on the Troll's ship and took a greatquantity of gold and silver hoops away with him, and then he trottedback to the King's palace.When the kitchen maid caught sight of all this gold and silver she wasquite amazed, and said: 'My dear friend Minnikin, where have you got allthat from?' for she was half afraid that he had not come by it honestly.'Oh,' answered Minnikin, 'I have been home a while, and these hoops hadfallen off some of our buckets, so I brought them away with me for you.'So when the kitchen maid heard that they were for her, she asked no morequestions about the matter. She thanked Minnikin, and everything wasright again at once.Next Thursday evening all went just the same, and everyone was fullof grief and affliction, but Ritter Red said that he had been able todeliver the King's daughter from one Troll, so that he could very easilydeliver her from another, and he led her down to the sea shore. But hedid not do much harm to this Troll either, for when the time came whenthe Troll might be expected, he said as he had said before: 'It isbetter that one should die than two,' and then climbed up into the treeagain.Minnikin once more begged the cook's leave to go down to the sea shorefor a short time.'Oh, what can you do there?' said the cook.'My dear, do let me go!' said Minnikin. 'I should so like to go downthere and amuse myself a little with the other children.'So this time also she said that he should have leave to go, but he mustfirst promise that he would be back by the time the joint was turned andthat he would bring a great armful of wood with him.No sooner had Minnikin got down to the strand than the Troll camerushing along with a great whistling and whirring, and he was twice asbig as the first Troll, and he had ten heads.'Fire!' shrieked the Troll.'Fire yourself!' said Minnikin.'Can you fight?' roared the Troll.'If not, I can learn,' said Minnikin.So the Troll struck at him with his iron club which was still biggerthan that which the first Troll had had so that the earth flew tenyards up in the air.'Fie!' said Minnikin. 'That was not much of a blow. Now you shall seeone of my blows.'Then he grasped his sword and struck at the Troll, so that all his tenheads danced away over the sands.And again the King's daughter said to him, 'Sleep a while on my lap,'and while Minnikin lay there she drew some silver raiment over him.As soon as Ritter Red saw that there was no longer any danger afoot, hecrept down from the tree and threatened the Princess, until at last shewas again forced to promise to say that it was he who had rescued her.after which he took the tongue and the lungs of the Troll and put themin his pocket handkerchief, and then he conducted the Princess backto the palace. There was joy and gladness in the palace, as may beimagined, and the King did not know how to show enough honour andrespect to Ritter Red.Minnikin, however, took home with him an armful of gold and silverhoops from the Troll's ship. When he came back to the King's palace thekitchen maid clapped her hands and wondered where he could have got allthat gold and silver. but Minnikin answered that he had been home fora short time, and that it was only the hoops which had fallen off somepails, and that he had brought them away for the kitchen maid.When the third Thursday evening came, everything happened exactly asit had happened on the two former occasions. Everything in the King'spalace was hung with black, and everyone was sorrowful and distressed.but Ritter Red said that he did not think that they had much reason tobe afraid he had delivered the King's daughter from two Trolls, so hecould easily deliver her from the third as well.He led her down to the strand, but when the time drew near for the Trollto come, he climbed up into the tree again and hid himself.The Princess wept and entreated him to stay, but all to no purpose. Hestuck to his old speech, 'It is better that one life should be lost thantwo.'This evening also, Minnikin begged for leave to go down to thesea shore.'Oh, what can you do there?' answered the kitchen maid.However, he begged until at last he got leave to go, but he was forcedto promise that he would be back again in the kitchen when the roast hadto be turned.Almost immediately after he had got down to the sea shore the Troll camewith a great whizzing and whirring, and he was much, much bigger thaneither of the two former ones, and he had fifteen heads.'Fire!' roared the Troll.'Fire yourself!' said Minnikin.'Can you fight?' screamed the Troll.'If not, I can learn,' said Minnikin.'I will teach you,' yelled the Troll, and struck at him with his ironclub so that the earth flew up fifteen yards high into the air.'Fie!' said Minnikin. 'That was not much of a blow. Now I will let yousee one of my blows.'So saying he grasped his sword, and cut at the Troll in such a way thatall his fifteen heads danced away over the sands.Then the Princess was delivered, and she thanked Minnikin and blessedhim for saving her.'Sleep a while now on my lap,' said she, and while he lay there she puta garment of brass upon him.'But now, how shall we have it made known that it was you who saved me?'said the King's daughter.'That I will tell you,' answered Minnikin. 'When Ritter Red has takenyou home again, and given out that it was he who rescued you, he will,as you know, have you to wife, and half the kingdom. But when they askyou on your wedding day whom you will have to be your cup bearer,you must say, "I will have the ragged boy who is in the kitchen, andcarries wood and water for the kitchen maid." and when I am fillingyour cups for you, I will spill a drop upon his plate but none uponyours, and then he will be angry and strike me, and this will take placethrice. But the third time you must say, "Shame on you thus to smitethe beloved of mine heart. It is he who delivered me from the Troll, andhe is the one whom I will have."'Then Minnikin ran back to the King's palace as he had done before, butfirst he went on board the Troll's ship and took a great quantity ofgold and silver and other precious things, and out of these he once moregave to the kitchen maid a whole armful of gold and silver hoops.No sooner did Ritter Red see that all danger was over than he creptdown from the tree, and threatened the King's daughter till he made herpromise to say that he had rescued her. Then he conducted her back tothe King's palace, and if honour enough had not been done him before itwas certainly done now, for the King had no other thought than how tomake much of the man who had saved his daughter from the three Trolls.and it was settled then that Ritter Red should marry her, and receivehalf the kingdom.On the wedding day, however, the Princess begged that she might have thelittle boy who was in the kitchen, and carried wood and water for thekitchen maid, to fill the wine cups at the wedding feast.'Oh, what can you want with that dirty, ragged boy, in here?' saidRitter Red, but the Princess said that she insisted on having him ascup bearer and would have no one else. and at last she got leave, andthen everything was done as had been agreed on between the Princess andMinnikin. He spilt a drop on Ritter Red's plate but none upon hers, andeach time that he did it Ritter Red fell into a rage and struck him. Atthe first blow all the ragged garments which he had worn in the kitchenfell from off Minnikin, at the second blow the brass garments fell off,and at the third the silver raiment, and there he stood in the goldenraiment, which was so bright and splendid that light flashed from it.Then the King's daughter said: 'Shame on you thus to smite the belovedof my heart. It is he who delivered me from the Troll, and he is the onewhom I will have.'Ritter Red swore that he was the man who had saved her, but the Kingsaid: 'He who delivered my daughter must have some token in proof ofit.'So Ritter Red ran off at once for his handkerchief with the lungsand tongue, and Minnikin went and brought all the gold and silver andprecious things which he had taken out of the Trolls' ships. and theyeach of them laid these tokens before the King.'He who has such precious things in gold and silver and diamonds,' saidthe King, 'must be the one who killed the Troll, for such things are notto be had anywhere else.' So Ritter Red was thrown into the snake pit,and Minnikin was to have the Princess, and half the kingdom.One day the King went out walking with Minnikin, and Minnikin asked himif he had never had any other children.'Yes,' said the King, 'I had another daughter, but the Troll carried heraway because there was no one who could deliver her. You are going tohave one daughter of mine, but if you can set free the other, who hasbeen taken by the Troll, you shall willingly have her too, and the otherhalf of the kingdom as well.''I may as well make the attempt,' said Minnikin, 'but I must have aniron rope which is five hundred ells long, and then I must have fivehundred men with me, and provisions for five weeks, for I have a longvoyage before me.'So the King said he should have these things, but the King was afraidthat he had no ship large enough to carry them all.'But I have a ship of my own,' said Minnikin, and he took the one whichthe old woman had given him out of his pocket. The King laughed at himand thought that it was only one of his jokes, but Minnikin beggedhim just to give him what he had asked for, and then he should seesomething. Then all that Minnikin had asked for was brought. and firsthe ordered them to lay the cable in the ship, but there was no one whowas able to lift it, and there was only room for one or two men at atime in the little bit of a ship. Then Minnikin himself took hold of thecable, and laid one or two links of it into the ship, and as he threwthe links into it the ship grew bigger and bigger, and at last it wasso large that the cable, and the five hundred men, and provisions, andMinnikin himself, had room enough.'Now go over fresh water and salt water, over hill and dale, and do notstop until thou comest to where the King's daughter is,' said Minnikinto the ship, and off it went in a moment over land and water till thewind whistled and moaned all round about it.When they had sailed thus a long, long way, the ship stopped short inthe middle of the sea.'Ah, now we have got there,' said Minnikin, 'but how we are to get backagain is a very different thing.'Then he took the cable and tied one end of it round his body. 'Now Imust go to the bottom,' he said, 'but when I give a good jerk to thecable and want to come up again, you must all pull like one man, orthere will be an end of all life both for you and for me.' So sayinghe sprang into the water, and yellow bubbles rose up all around him. Hesank lower and lower, and at last he came to the bottom. There he saw alarge hill with a door in it, and in he went. When he had got inside hefound the other Princess sitting sewing, but when she saw Minnikin sheclapped her hands.'Ah, heaven be praised!' she cried, 'I have not seen a Christian mansince I came here.''I have come for you,' said Minnikin.'Alas! you will not be able to get me,' said the King's daughter. 'It isno use even to think of that. if the Troll catches sight of you he willtake your life.''You had better tell me about him,' said Minnikin. 'Where is he gone? Itwould be amusing to see him.'So the King's daughter told Minnikin that the Troll was out tryingto get hold of someone who could brew a hundred lasts of malt at onebrewing, for there was to be a feast at the Troll's, at which less thanthat would not be drunk.'I can do that,' said Minnikin.'Ah! if only the Troll were not so quick tempered I might have told himthat,' answered the Princess, 'but he is so ill natured that he willtear you to pieces, I fear, as soon as he comes in. But I will try tofind some way of doing it. Can you hide yourself here in the cupboard?and then we will see what happens.'Minnikin did this, and almost before he had crept into the cupboard andhidden himself, came the Troll.'Huf! What a smell of Christian man's blood!' said the Troll.'Yes, a bird flew over the roof with a Christian man's bone in his bill,and let it fall down our chimney,' answered the Princess. 'I madehaste enough to get it away again, but it must be that which smells so,notwithstanding.''Yes, it must be that,' said the Troll.Then the Princess asked if he had got hold of anyone who could brew ahundred lasts of malt at one brewing.'No, there is no one who can do it,' said the Troll.'A short time since there was a man here who said he could do it,' saidthe King's daughter.'How clever you always are!' said the Troll. 'How could you let him goaway? You must have known that I was just wanting a man of that kind.''Well, but I didn't let him go, after all,' said the Princess. 'butfather is so quick tempered, so I hid him in the cupboard, but if fatherhas not found any one then the man is still here.''Let him come in,' said the Troll.When Minnikin came, the Troll asked if it were true that he could brew ahundred lasts of malt at one brewing.'Yes,' said Minnikin, 'it is.''It is well then that I have lighted on thee,' said the Troll. 'Fall towork this very minute, but Heaven help thee if thou dost not brew theale strong.''Oh, it shall taste well,' said Minnikin, and at once set himself towork to brew.'But I must have more trolls to help to carry what is wanted,' saidMinnikin. 'these that I have are good for nothing.'So he got more and so many that there was a swarm of them, and thenthe brewing went on. When the sweet wort was ready they were all, as amatter of course, anxious to taste it, first the Troll himself and thenthe others. but Minnikin had brewed the wort so strong that they allfell down dead like so many flies as soon as they had drunk any of it.At last there was no one left but one wretched old hag who was lyingbehind the stove.'Oh, poor old creature!' said Minnikin, 'you shall have a taste of thewort too like the rest.' So he went away and scooped up a little fromthe bottom of the brewing vat in a milk pan, and gave it to her, andthen he was quit of the whole of them.While Minnikin was now standing there looking about him, he cast his eyeon a large chest. This he took and filled it with gold and silver, andthen he tied the cable round himself and the Princess and the chest, andtugged at the rope with all his might, whereupon his men drew them upsafe and sound.As soon as Minnikin had got safely on his ship again, he said: 'Now goover salt water and fresh water, over hill and dale, and do not stopuntil thou comest unto the King's palace.' And in a moment the ship wentoff so fast that the yellow foam rose up all round about it.When those who were in the King's palace saw the ship, they lost notime in going to meet him with song and music, and thus they marched uptowards Minnikin with great rejoicings. but the gladdest of all was theKing, for now he had got his other daughter back again.But now Minnikin was not happy, for both the Princesses wanted to havehim, and he wanted to have none other than the one whom he had firstsaved, and she was the younger. For this cause he was continuallywalking backwards and forwards, thinking how he could contrive to gether, and yet do nothing that was unkind to her sister. One day when hewas walking about and thinking of this, it came into his mind that ifhe only had his brother, King Pippin, with him, who was so like himselfthat no one could distinguish the one from the other, he could lethim have the elder Princess and half the kingdom. as for himself,he thought, the other half was quite enough. As soon as this thoughtoccurred to him he went outside the palace and called for King Pippin,but no one came. So he called a second time, and a little louder, butno! still no one came. So Minnikin called for the third time, and withall his might, and there stood his brother by his side.'I told you that you were not to call me unless you were in the utmostneed,' he said to Minnikin, 'and there is not even so much as a midgehere who can do you any harm!' and with that he gave Minnikin such ablow that he rolled over on the grass.'Shame on you to strike me!' said Minnikin. 'First have I won onePrincess and half the kingdom, and then the other Princess and the otherhalf of the kingdom. and now, when I was just thinking that I would giveyou one of the Princesses and one of the halves of the kingdom, do youthink you have any reason to give me such a blow?'When King Pippin heard that he begged his brother's pardon, and theywere reconciled at once and became good friends.'Now, as you know,' said Minnikin, 'we are so like each other that noone can tell one of us from the other. so just change clothes with meand go up to the palace, and then the Princesses will think that I amcoming in, and the one who kisses you first shall be yours, and I willhave the other.' For he knew that the elder Princess was the stronger,so he could very well guess how things would go.King Pippin at once agreed to this. He changed clothes with his brother,and went into the palace. When he entered the Princess's apartments theybelieved that he was Minnikin, and both of them ran up to him at once.but the elder, who was bigger and stronger, pushed her sister aside, andthrew her arms round King Pippin's neck and kissed him. so he got herto wife, and Minnikin the younger sister. It will be easy to understandthat two weddings took place, and they were so magnificent that theywere heard of and talked about all over seven kingdoms.(27)(27) From J. Moe.