One day when Brer Rabbit was going lippity clippiting down the road, hemeets up with old Brer Terrapin, and after they pass the time of day withone another, they keep on talking, they did, until by and by they got todisputing about which was the swiftest.Brer Rabbit, he says he can outrun Brer Terrapin, and Brer Terrapin, hejust vows that he can outrun Brer Rabbit. Up and down they had it, untilfirst thing you know, Brer Terrapin says he has a fifty dollar bill in thechink of his chimney at home, and that bill done told him that he couldbeat Brer Rabbit in a fair race.Then Brer Rabbit says he has a fifty dollar bill that says that he canleave Brer Terrapin so far behind that he could sow barley as he wentalong, and it would be ripe enough to cut by the time Brer Terrapin passedthat way.Anyhow, they make the bet and put up the money, and old Brer TurkeyBuzzard, he was summoned to be the judge and the stakeholder. And itwasn't long before all the arrangements were made. The race was afive mile heat, and the ground was measured off, and at the end of everymile a post was stuck up. Brer Rabbit was to run down the big road, andBrer Terrapin, he says he'd gallop through the woods. Folks told him hecould get along faster in the road, but old Brer Terrapin, he knows whathe's doing.Miss Meadows and the gals and most all the neighbors got wind of thefun, and when the day was set, they were determined to be on hand.Brer Rabbit, he trains himself every day, and he skips over the groundjust as gaily as a June cricket.Old Brer Terrapin, he lies low in the swamp. He had a wife and threechildren, old Brer Terrapin did, and they were all the very spitting imageof the old man. Anybody who knew one from the other had to take aspyglass, and then they were liable to get fooled.That's the way matters stand until the day of the race, and on that dayold Brer Terrapin and his old woman and his three children, they got upbefore sun up and went to the place. The old woman, she took her standnear the first milepost, she did, and the children near the others, up tothe last, and there old Brer Terrapin, he took his stand.By and by, here come the folks. Judge Buzzard, he comes, and MissMeadows and the gals, they come, and then here comes Brer Rabbit withribbons tied around his neck and streaming from his ears. The folks allwent to the other end of the track to see how they would come out.When the time comes, Judge Buzzard struts around and pulls out hiswatch and hollers out, "Gents, are you ready?"Brer Rabbit, he says "yes," and old Miss Terrapin hollers "go" from theedge of the woods.Brer Rabbit, he lit out on the race, and old Miss Terrapin, she put outfor home. Judge Buzzard arose and skimmed along to see that the race wasrun fair.When Brer Rabbit got to the first milepost, one of the terrapinchildren crawls out of the woods, he does, and makes for the place.Brer Rabbit, he hollers out, "Where are you, Brer Terrapin?""Here I come a bulging," says the terrapin.Brer Rabbit is so glad he's ahead that he puts out harder than ever,and the Terrapin, he makes for home. When he comes to the next post,another terrapin crawls out of the woods."Where are you, Brer Terrapin?" says Brer Rabbit."Here I come a boiling," says the terrapin.Brer Rabbit, he lit out, he did, and comes to the next post, and therewas the terrapin. Then he comes to the next, and there was the terrapin.Then he had one more mile to run, and he's wheezing and puffing. By and byold Brer Terrapin looks way off down the road, and he sees Judge Buzzardsailing along, and he knows it's time for him to be up. So he scramblesout of the wood and rolls across the ditch and shuffles through the crowdof folks and gets to the milepost and crawls behind it.By and by, first thing you know, here comes Brer Rabbit. He looksaround and he don't see Brer Terrapin, and he squalls out, "Give me themoney, Brer Buzzard, give me the money!"Then Miss Meadows and the gals, they holler and laugh fit to killthemselves, and old Brer Terrapin, he rises up from behind the post andsays, "If you'll give me time to catch my breath, gents and ladies, oneand all, I suspect I'll finger that money myself," he says, and sureenough, Brer Terrapin ties the purse around his neck and scaddles offhome.