Long, long ago there lived, an old man and an old woman. they werepeasants, and had to work hard to earn their daily rice. The old manused to go and cut grass for the farmers around, and while he was gonethe old woman, his wife, did the work of the house and worked in theirown little rice field.One day the old man went to the hills as usual to cut grass and the oldwoman took some clothes to the river to wash.It was nearly summer, and the country was very beautiful to see in itsfresh greenness as the two old people went on their way to work. Thegrass on the banks of the river looked like emerald velvet, and thepussy willows along the edge of the water were shaking out their softtassels.The breezes blew and ruffled the smooth surface of the water intowavelets, and passing on touched the cheeks of the old couple who, forsome reason they could not explain, felt very happy that morning.The old woman at last found a nice spot by the river bank and put herbasket down. Then she set to work to wash the clothes. she took themone by one out of the basket and washed them in the river and rubbedthem on the stones. The water was as clear as crystal, and she couldsee the tiny fish swimming to and fro, and the pebbles at the bottom.As she was busy washing her clothes a great peach came bumping down thestream. The old woman looked up from her work and saw this large peach.She was sixty years of age, yet in all her life she had never seen sucha big peach as this."How delicious that peach must be!" she said to herself. "I mustcertainly get it and take it home to my old man."She stretched out her arm to try and get it, but it was quite out ofher reach. She looked about for a stick, but there was not one to beseen, and if she went to look for one she would lose the peach.Stopping a moment to think what she would do, she remembered an oldcharm verse. Now she began to clap her hands to keep time to therolling of the peach down stream, and while she clapped she sang thissong:"Distant water is bitter,The near water is sweet.Pass by the distant waterAnd come into the sweet."Strange to say, as soon as she began to repeat this little song thepeach began to come nearer and nearer the bank where the old woman wasstanding, till at last it stopped just in front of her so that she wasable to take it up in her hands. The old woman was delighted. She couldnot go on with her work, so happy and excited was she, so she put allthe clothes back in her bamboo basket, and with the basket on her backand the peach in her hand she hurried homewards.It seemed a very long time to her to wait till her husband returned.The old man at last came back as the sun was setting, with a big bundleof grass on his back so big that he was almost hidden and she couldhardly see him. He seemed very tired and used the scythe for a walkingstick, leaning on it as he walked along.As soon as the old woman saw him she called out:"O Fii San! (old man) I have been waiting for you to come home for sucha long time to day!""What is the matter? Why are you so impatient?" asked the old man,wondering at her unusual eagerness. "Has anything happened while I havebeen away?""Oh, no!" answered the old woman, "nothing has happened, only I havefound a nice present for you!""That is good," said the old man. He then washed his feet in a basin ofwater and stepped up to the veranda.The old woman now ran into the little room and brought out from thecupboard the big peach. It felt even heavier than before. She held itup to him, saying:"Just look at this! Did you ever see such a large peach in all yourlife?"When the old man looked at the peach he was greatly astonished and said:"This is indeed the largest peach I have ever seen! Wherever did youbuy it?""I did not buy it," answered the old woman. "I found it in the riverwhere I was washing." And she told him the whole story."I am very glad that you have found it. Let us eat it now, for I amhungry," said the O Fii San.He brought out the kitchen knife, and, placing the peach on a board,was about to cut it when, wonderful to tell, the peach split in two ofitself and a clear voice said:"Wait a bit, old man!" and out stepped a beautiful little child.The old man and his wife were both so astonished at what they saw thatthey fell to the ground. The child spoke again:"Don't be afraid. I am no demon or fairy. I will tell you the truth.Heaven has had compassion on you. Every day and every night you havelamented that you had no child. Your cry has been heard and I am sentto be the son of your old age!"On hearing this the old man and his wife were very happy. They hadcried night and day for sorrow at having no child to help them in theirlonely old age, and now that their prayer was answered they were solost with joy that they did not know where to put their hands or theirfeet. First the old man took the child up in his arms, and then the oldwoman did the same. and they named him MOMOTARO, OR SON OF A PEACH,because he had come out of a peach.The years passed quickly by and the child grew to be fifteen years ofage. He was taller and far stronger than any other boys of his own age,he had a handsome face and a heart full of courage, and he was verywise for his years. The old couple's pleasure was very great when theylooked at him, for he was just what they thought a hero ought to belike.One day Momotaro came to his foster father and said solemnly:"Father, by a strange chance we have become father and son. Yourgoodness to me has been higher than the mountain grasses which it wasyour daily work to cut, and deeper than the river where my motherwashes the clothes. I do not know how to thank you enough.""Why," answered the old man, "it is a matter of course that a fathershould bring up his son. When you are older it will be your turn totake care of us, so after all there will be no profit or loss betweenus all will be equal. Indeed, I am rather surprised that you shouldthank me in this way!" and the old man looked bothered."I hope you will be patient with me," said Momotaro. "but before Ibegin to pay back your goodness to me I have a request to make which Ihope you will grant me above everything else.""I will let you do whatever you wish, for you are quite different toall other boys!""Then let me go away at once!""What do you say? Do you wish to leave your old father and mother andgo away from your old home?""I will surely come back again, if you let me go now!""Where are you going?""You must think it strange that I want to go away," said Momotaro,"because I have not yet told you my reason. Far away from here to thenortheast of Japan there is an island in the sea. This island is thestronghold of a band of devils. I have often heard how they invade thisland, kill and rob the people, and carry off all they can find. Theyare not only very wicked but they are disloyal to our Emperor anddisobey his laws. They are also cannibals, for they kill and eat someof the poor people who are so unfortunate as to fall into their hands.These devils are very hateful beings. I must go and conquer them andbring back all the plunder of which they have robbed this land. It isfor this reason that I want to go away for a short time!"The old man was much surprised at hearing all this from a mere boy offifteen. He thought it best to let the boy go. He was strong andfearless, and besides all this, the old man knew he was no commonchild, for he had been sent to them as a gift from Heaven, and he feltquite sure that the devils would be powerless to harm him."All you say is very interesting, Momotaro," said the old man. "I willnot hinder you in your determination. You may go if you wish. Go to theisland as soon as ever you like and destroy the demons and bring peaceto the land.""Thank you, for all your kindness," said Momotaro, who began to getready to go that very day. He was full of courage and did not know whatfear was.The old man and woman at once set to work to pound rice in the kitchenmortar to make cakes for Momotaro to take with him on his journey.At last the cakes were made and Momotaro was ready to start on his longjourney.Parting is always sad. So it was now. The eyes of the two old peoplewere filled with tears and their voices trembled as they said:"Go with all care and speed. We expect you back victorious!"Momotaro was very sorry to leave his old parents (though he knew he wascoming back as soon as he could), for he thought of how lonely theywould be while he was away. But he said "Good by!" quite bravely."I am going now. Take good care of yourselves while I am away.Good by!" And he stepped quickly out of the house. In silence the eyesof Momotaro and his parents met in farewell.Momotaro now hurried on his way till it was midday. He began to feelhungry, so he opened his bag and took out one of the rice cakes and satdown under a tree by the side of the road to eat it. While he was thushaving his lunch a dog almost as large as a colt came running out fromthe high grass. He made straight for Momotaro, and showing his teeth,said in a fierce way:"You are a rude man to pass my field without asking permission first.If you leave me all the cakes you have in your bag you may go.otherwise I will bite you till I kill you!"Momotaro only laughed scornfully:"What is that you are saying? Do you know who I am? I am Momotaro, andI am on my way to subdue the devils in their island stronghold in thenortheast of Japan. If you try to stop me on my way there I will cutyou in two from the head downwards!"The dog's manner at once changed. His tail dropped between his legs,and coming near he bowed so low that his forehead touched the ground."What do I hear? The name of Momotaro? Are you indeed Momotaro? I haveoften heard of your great strength. Not knowing who you were I havebehaved in a very stupid way. Will you please pardon my rudeness? Areyou indeed on your way to invade the Island of Devils? If you will takesuch a rude fellow with you as one of your followers, I shall be verygrateful to you.""I think I can take you with me if you wish to go," said Momotaro."Thank you!" said the dog. "By the way, I am very very hungry. Will yougive me one of the cakes you are carrying?""This is the best kind of cake there is in Japan," said Momotaro. "Icannot spare you a whole one. I will give you half of one.""Thank you very much," said the dog, taking the piece thrown to him.Then Momotaro got up and the dog followed. For a long time they walkedover the hills and through the valleys. As they were going along ananimal came down from a tree a little ahead of them. The creature sooncame up to Momotaro and said:"Good morning, Momotaro! You are welcome in this part of the country.Will you allow me to go with you?"The dog answered jealously:"Momotaro already has a dog to accompany him. Of what use is a monkeylike you in battle? We are on our way to fight the devils! Get away!"The dog and the monkey began to quarrel and bite, for these two animalsalways hate each other."Now, don't quarrel!" said Momotaro, putting himself between them."Wait a moment, dog!""It is not at all dignified for you to have such a creature as thatfollowing you!" said the dog."What do you know about it?" asked Momotaro. and pushing aside the dog,he spoke to the monkey:"Who are you?""I am a monkey living in these hills," replied the monkey. "I heard ofyour expedition to the Island of Devils, and I have come to go withyou. Nothing will please me more than to follow you!""Do you really wish to go to the Island of Devils and fight with me?""Yes, sir," replied the monkey."I admire your courage," said Momotaro. "Here is a piece of one of myfine rice cakes. Come along!"So the monkey joined Momotaro. The dog and the monkey did not get onwell together. They were always snapping at each other as they wentalong, and always wanting to have a fight. This made Momotaro verycross, and at last he sent the dog on ahead with a flag and put themonkey behind with a sword, and he placed himself between them with awar fan, which is made of iron.By and by they came to a large field. Here a bird flew down andalighted on the ground just in front of the little party. It was themost beautiful bird Momotaro had ever seen. On its body were fivedifferent robes of feathers and its head was covered with a scarlet cap.The dog at once ran at the bird and tried to seize and kill it. But thebird struck out its spurs and flew at the dog's tail, and the fightwent hard with both.Momotaro, as he looked on, could not help admiring the bird. it showedso much spirit in the fight. It would certainly make a good fighter.Momotaro went up to the two combatants, and holding the dog back, saidto the bird:"You rascal! you are hindering my journey. Surrender at once, and Iwill take you with me. If you don't I will set this dog to bite yourhead off!"Then the bird surrendered at once, and begged to be taken intoMomotaro's company."I do not know what excuse to offer for quarreling with the dog, yourservant, but I did not see you. I am a miserable bird called apheasant. It is very generous of you to pardon my rudeness and to takeme with you. Please allow me to follow you behind the dog and themonkey!""I congratulate you on surrendering so soon," said Momotaro, smiling."Come and join us in our raid on the devils.""Are you going to take this bird with you also?" asked the dog,interrupting."Why do you ask such an unnecessary question? Didn't you hear what Isaid? I take the bird with me because I wish to!""Humph!" said the dog.Then Momotaro stood and gave this order:"Now all of you must listen to me. The first thing necessary in an armyis harmony. It is a wise saying which says that 'Advantage on earth isbetter than advantage in Heaven!' Union amongst ourselves is betterthan any earthly gain. When we are not at peace amongst ourselves it isno easy thing to subdue an enemy. From now, you three, the dog, themonkey and the pheasant, must be friends with one mind. The one whofirst begins a quarrel will be discharged on the spot!"All the three promised not to quarrel. The pheasant was now made amember of Momotaro's suite, and received half a cake.Momotaro's influence was so great that the three became good friends,and hurried onwards with him as their leader.Hurrying on day after day they at last came out upon the shore of theNorth Eastern Sea. There was nothing to be seen as far as thehorizon not a sign of any island. All that broke the stillness was therolling of the waves upon the shore.Now, the dog and the monkey and the pheasant had come very bravely allthe way through the long valleys and over the hills, but they had neverseen the sea before, and for the first time since they set out theywere bewildered and gazed at each other in silence. How were they tocross the water and get to the Island of Devils?Momotaro soon saw that they were daunted by the sight of the sea, andto try them he spoke loudly and roughly:"Why do you hesitate? Are you afraid of the sea? Oh! what cowards youare! It is impossible to take such weak creatures as you with me tofight the demons. It will be far better for me to go alone. I dischargeyou all at once!"The three animals were taken aback at this sharp reproof, and clung toMomotaro's sleeve, begging him not to send them away."Please, Momotaro!" said the dog."We have come thus far!" said the monkey."It is inhuman to leave us here!" said the pheasant."We are not at all afraid of the sea," said the monkey again."Please do take us with you," said the pheasant."Do please," said the dog.They had now gained a little courage, so Momotaro said:"Well, then, I will take you with me, but be careful!"Momotaro now got a small ship, and they all got on board. The wind andweather were fair, and the ship went like an arrow over the sea. It wasthe first time they had ever been on the water, and so at first thedog, the monkey and the pheasant were frightened at the waves and therolling of the vessel, but by degrees they grew accustomed to the waterand were quite happy again. Every day they paced the deck of theirlittle ship, eagerly looking out for the demons' island.When they grew tired of this, they told each other stories of all theirexploits of which they were proud, and then played games together. andMomotaro found much to amuse him in listening to the three animals andwatching their antics, and in this way he forgot that the way was longand that he was tired of the voyage and of doing nothing. He longed tobe at work killing the monsters who had done so much harm in hiscountry.As the wind blew in their favor and they met no storms the ship made aquick voyage, and one day when the sun was shining brightly a sight ofland rewarded the four watchers at the bow.Momotaro knew at once that what they saw was the devils' stronghold. Onthe top of the precipitous shore, looking out to sea, was a largecastle. Now that his enterprise was close at hand, he was deep inthought with his head leaning on his hands, wondering how he shouldbegin the attack. His three followers watched him, waiting for orders.At last he called to the pheasant:"It is a great advantage for us to have you with us." said Momotaro tothe bird, "for you have good wings. Fly at once to the castle andengage the demons to fight. We will follow you."The pheasant at once obeyed. He flew off from the ship beating the airgladly with his wings. The bird soon reached the island and took up hisposition on the roof in the middle of the castle, calling out loudly:"All you devils listen to me! The great Japanese general Momotaro hascome to fight you and to take your stronghold from you. If you wish tosave your lives surrender at once, and in token of your submission youmust break off the horns that grow on your forehead. If you do notsurrender at once, but make up your mind to fight, we, the pheasant,the dog and the monkey, will kill you all by biting and tearing you todeath!"The horned demons looking up and only seeing a pheasant, laughed andsaid:"A wild pheasant, indeed! It is ridiculous to hear such words from amean thing like you. Wait till you get a blow from one of our ironbars!"Very angry, indeed, were the devils. They shook their horns and theirshocks of red hair fiercely, and rushed to put on tiger skin trousersto make themselves look more terrible. They then brought out great ironbars and ran to where the pheasant perched over their heads, and triedto knock him down. The pheasant flew to one side to escape the blow,and then attacked the head of first one and then another demon. He flewround and round them, beating the air with his wings so fiercely andceaselessly, that the devils began to wonder whether they had to fightone or many more birds.In the meantime, Momotaro had brought his ship to land. As they hadapproached, he saw that the shore was like a precipice, and that thelarge castle was surrounded by high walls and large iron gates and wasstrongly fortified.Momotaro landed, and with the hope of finding some way of entrance,walked up the path towards the top, followed by the monkey and the dog.They soon came upon two beautiful damsels washing clothes in a stream.Momotaro saw that the clothes were blood stained, and that as the twomaidens washed, the tears were falling fast down their cheeks. Hestopped and spoke to them:"Who are you, and why do you weep?""We are captives of the Demon King. We were carried away from our homesto this island, and though we are the daughters of Daimios (Lords), weare obliged to be his servants, and one day he will kill us" and themaidens held up the blood stained clothes "and eat us, and there is noone to help us!"And their tears burst out afresh at this horrible thought."I will rescue you," said Momotaro. "Do not weep any more, only show mehow I may get into the castle."Then the two ladies led the way and showed Momotaro a little back doorin the lowest part of the castle wall so small that Momotaro couldhardly crawl in.The pheasant, who was all this time fighting hard, saw Momotaro and hislittle band rush in at the back.Momotaro's onslaught was so furious that the devils could not standagainst him. At first their foe had been a single bird, the pheasant,but now that Momotaro and the dog and the monkey had arrived they werebewildered, for the four enemies fought like a hundred, so strong werethey. Some of the devils fell off the parapet of the castle and weredashed to pieces on the rocks beneath. others fell into the sea andwere drowned. many were beaten to death by the three animals.The chief of the devils at last was the only one left. He made up hismind to surrender, for he knew that his enemy was stronger than mortalman.He came up humbly to Momotaro and threw down his iron bar, and kneelingdown at the victor's feet he broke off the horns on his head in tokenof submission, for they were the sign of his strength and power."I am afraid of you," he said meekly. "I cannot stand against you. Iwill give you all the treasure hidden in this castle if you will sparemy life!"Momotaro laughed."It is not like you, big devil, to beg for mercy, is it? I cannot spareyour wicked life, however much you beg, for you have killed andtortured many people and robbed our country for many years."Then Momotaro tied the devil chief up and gave him into the monkey'scharge. Having done this, he went into all the rooms of the castle andset the prisoners free and gathered together all the treasure he found.The dog and the pheasant carried home the plunder, and thus Momotaroreturned triumphantly to his home, taking with him the devil chief as acaptive.The two poor damsels, daughters of Daimios, and others whom the wickeddemon had carried off to be his slaves, were taken safely to their ownhomes and delivered to their parents.The whole country made a hero of Momotaro on his triumphant return, andrejoiced that the country was now freed from the robber devils who hadbeen a terror of the land for a long time.The old couple's joy was greater than ever, and the treasure Momotarohad brought home with him enabled them to live in peace and plenty tothe end of their days.