Mother Elston used to go from place to place selling nuts, and before she died she begged that a bag of them might be put in her coffin. Her wishes were fulfilled, and she was buried, and then it began to be said her ghost used to sit on her grave and crack the nuts. Many people heard it, and the clergyman of the parish was told. He said that, if at any time it was made known to him that the ghost was there, to be seen or heard, he would come at once and lay it.One fine night, after a neighbouring "revel," three men rather the worse for drink came by, and saw some sheep in a field close to the churchyard. The thought struck them that here was a good opportunity for helping themselves, and while one man went into the church porch to keep watch, the others went to steal the sheep.Now, the man in the porch had brought a lot of nuts from the revel, and while waiting he began to eat them. Just then the sexton came by and heard nuts being cracked, sure enough. So off he ran to the vicarage to fetch the parson, who agreed to come at once. Unfortunately he was afflicted with St. Vitus' dance and could not walk, being obliged to go in a perambulator."Have you my perambulator?" said the parson."No, sir. I don't naw where he's to," replied the sexton."Never mind. this little way you can carry me on your back," said the parson.So off they set, and just inside the churchyard they heard the nuts still being cracked. The sexton stopped."Go a little nearer," urged the parson. The sexton went a little nearer."Go a little nearer still". and the sexton still went a little nearer.Then the parson began saying something to lay the ghost. But the man in the porch thought they were one of his mates with a sheep. "Is he fat?" he called.And the sexton was so frightened that he dropped the parson and ran away as fast as he could. But St. Vitus' dance comes with a fright and goes with a fright, they say, and the parson was quite cured from that minute, and could walk as well as ever he could after.