There was once a widow who had two daughters one of whom was pretty andindustrious, while the other was ugly and idle. But she was much fonderof the ugly and idle one, because she was her own daughter. and theother, who was a step daughter, was obliged to do all the work, and bethe Cinderella of the house. Every day the poor girl had to sit by awell, in the highway, and spin and spin till her fingers bled.Now it happened that one day the shuttle was marked with her blood, soshe dipped it in the well, to wash the mark off. but it dropped out ofher hand and fell to the bottom. She began to weep, and ran to herstep mother and told of the mishap. But she scolded her sharply, and wasso merciless as to say, "Since you have let the shuttle fall in, youmust fetch it out again."So the girl went back to the well, and did not know what to do. and inthe sorrow of her heart she jumped into the well to get the shuttle. Shelost her senses. and when she awoke and came to herself again, she wasin a lovely meadow where the sun was shining and many thousands offlowers were growing. Along this meadow she went, and at last came to abaker's oven full of bread, and the bread cried out, "Oh, take me out!take me out! or I shall burn. I have been baked a long time!" So shewent up to it, and took out all the loaves one after another with thebread shovel. After that she went on till she came to a tree coveredwith apples, which called out to her, "Oh, shake me! shake me! we applesare all ripe!" So she shook the tree till the apples fell like rain, andwent on shaking till they were all down, and when she had gathered theminto a heap, she went on her way.At last she came to a little house, out of which an old woman peeped.but she had such large teeth that the girl was frightened, and was aboutto run away.But the old woman called out to her, "What are you afraid of, dearchild? Stay with me. if you will do all the work in the house properly,you shall be the better for it. Only you must take care to make my bedwell, and to shake it thoroughly till the feathers fly for then thereis snow on the earth. I am Mother Holle."As the old woman spoke so kindly to her, the girl took courage andagreed to enter her service. She attended to everything to thesatisfaction of her mistress, and always shook her bed so vigorouslythat the feathers flew about like snow flakes. So she had a pleasantlife with her. never an angry word. and boiled or roast meat every day.She stayed some time with Mother Holle, and then she became sad. Atfirst she did not know what was the matter with her, but found at lengththat it was homesickness. although she was many times better off herethan at home, still she had a longing to be there. At last she said tothe old woman, "I have a longing for home. and however well off I amdown here, I cannot stay any longer. I must go up again to my ownpeople." Mother Holle said, "I am pleased that you long for your homeagain, and as you have served me so truly, I myself will take you upagain." Thereupon she took her by the hand, and led her to a large door.The door was opened, and just as the maiden was standing beneath thedoorway, a heavy shower of golden rain fell, and all the gold remainedsticking to her, so that she was completely covered with it."You shall have that because you are so industrious," said Mother Holle.and at the same time she gave her back the shuttle which she had letfall into the well. Thereupon the door closed, and the maiden foundherself up above upon the earth, not far from her mother's house.And as she went into the yard the cock cried: "Cock a doodle doo! Yourgolden girl's come back to you!"So she went in to her mother, and as she arrived thus covered with gold,she was well received, both by her and her sister.The girl told all that had happened to her. and as soon as the motherheard how she had come by so much wealth, she was very anxious to obtainthe same good luck for the ugly and lazy daughter. She had to seatherself by the well and spin. and in order that her shuttle might bestained with blood, she stuck her hand into a thorn bush and pricked herfinger. Then she threw her shuttle into the well, and jumped in afterit.She came, like the other, to the beautiful meadow and walked along thevery same path. When she got to the oven the bread again cried, "Oh,take me out! take me out! or I shall burn. I have been baked a longtime!" But the lazy thing answered, "As if I had any wish to make myselfdirty!" and on she went. Soon she came to the apple tree, which cried,"Oh, shake me! shake me! we apples are all ripe!" But she answered, "Ilike that! one of you might fall on my head," and so went on.When she came to Mother Holle's house she was not afraid, for she hadalready heard of her big teeth, and she hired herself to herimmediately.The first day she forced herself to work diligently, and obeyed MotherHolle when she told her to do anything, for she was thinking of all thegold that she would give her. But on the second day she began to belazy, and on the third day still more so, and then she would not get upin the morning at all. Neither did she make Mother Holle's bed as sheought, and did not shake it so as to make the feathers fly up. MotherHolle was soon tired of this, and gave her notice to leave. The lazygirl was willing enough to go, and thought that now the golden rainwould come. Mother Holle led her, too, to the great door. but while shewas standing beneath it, instead of the gold a big kettleful of pitchwas emptied over her. "That is the reward of your service," said MotherHolle, and shut the door.So the lazy girl went home. but she was quite covered with pitch, andthe cock by the well side, as soon as he saw her, cried:"Cock a doodle doo! Your pitchy girl's come back to you." But the pitchstuck fast to her, and could not be got off as long as she lived.