Once upon a time there was a youth called Moti, who was very big andstrong, but the clumsiest creature you can imagine. So clumsy was hethat he was always putting his great feet into the bowls of sweet milkor curds which his mother set out on the floor to cool, always smashing,upsetting, breaking, until at last his father said to him:'Here, Moti, are fifty silver pieces which are the savings of years.take them and go and make your living or your fortune if you can.'Then Moti started off one early spring morning with his thick staff overhis shoulder, singing gaily to himself as he walked along.In one way and another he got along very well until a hot evening whenhe came to a certain city where he entered the travellers' 'serai' orinn to pass the night. Now a serai, you must know, is generally just alarge square enclosed by a high wall with an open colonnade along theinside all round to accommodate both men and beasts, and with perhapsa few rooms in towers at the corners for those who are too rich or tooproud to care about sleeping by their own camels and horses. Moti, ofcourse, was a country lad and had lived with cattle all his life, andhe wasn't rich and he wasn't proud, so he just borrowed a bed from theinnkeeper, set it down beside an old buffalo who reminded him of home,and in five minutes was fast asleep.In the middle of the night he woke, feeling that he had been disturbed,and putting his hand under his pillow found to his horror that his bagof money had been stolen. He jumped up quietly and began to prowl aroundto see whether anyone seemed to be awake, but, though he managed toarouse a few men and beasts by falling over them, he walked in theshadow of the archways round the whole serai without coming across alikely thief. He was just about to give it up when he overheard two menwhispering, and one laughed softly, and peering behind a pillar, he sawtwo Afghan horsedealers counting out his bag of money! Then Moti wentback to bed!In the morning Moti followed the two Afghans outside the city to thehorsemarket in which they horses were offered for sale. Choosing thebest looking horse amongst them he went up to it and said:'Is this horse for sale? may I try it?' and, the merchants assenting, hescrambled up on its back, dug in his heels, and off they flew. Now Motihad never been on a horse in his life, and had so much ado to hold onwith both hands as well as with both legs that the animal went justwhere it liked, and very soon broke into a break neck gallop and madestraight back to the serai where it had spent the last few nights.'This will do very well,' thought Moti as they whirled in at theentrance. As soon as the horse had arrived at its table it stopped ofits own accord and Moti immediately rolled off. but he jumped up atonce, tied the beast up, and called for some breakfast. Presently theAfghans appeared, out of breath and furious, and claimed the horse.'What do you mean?' cried Moti, with his mouth full of rice, 'it's myhorse. I paid you fifty pieces of silver for it quite a bargain, I'msure!''Nonsense! it is our horse,' answered one of the Afghans beginning tountie the bridle.'Leave off,' shouted Moti, seizing his staff. 'if you don't let my horsealone I'll crack your skulls! you thieves! I know you! Last night youtook my money, so to day I took your horse. that's fair enough!'Now the Afghans began to look a little uncomfortable, but Moti seemed sodetermined to keep the horse that they resolved to appeal to the law, sothey went off and laid a complaint before the king that Moti had stolenone of their horses and would not give it up nor pay for it.Presently a soldier came to summon Moti to the king. and, when hearrived and made his obeisance, the king began to question him as to whyhe had galloped off with the horse in this fashion. But Moti declaredthat he had got the animal in exchange for fifty pieces of silver,whilst the horse merchants vowed that the money they had on them waswhat they had received for the sale of other horses. and in one way andanother the dispute got so confusing that the king (who really thoughtthat Moti had stolen the horse) said at last, 'Well, I tell you whatI will do. I will lock something into this box before me, and if heguesses what it is, the horse is his, and if he doesn't then it isyours.'To this Moti agreed, and the king arose and went out alone by alittle door at the back of the Court, and presently came back claspingsomething closely wrapped up in a cloth under his robe, slipped it intothe little box, locked the box, and set it up where all might see.'Now,' said the king to Moti, 'guess!'It happened that when the king had opened the door behind him, Motinoticed that there was a garden outside: without waiting for the king'sreturn he began to think what could be got out of the garden smallenough to be shut in the box. 'Is it likely to be a fruit or a flower?No, not a flower this time, for he clasped it too tight. Then it mustbe a fruit or a stone. Yet not a stone, because he wouldn't wrap a dirtystone in his nice clean cloth. Then it is a fruit! And a fruit withoutmuch scent, or else he would be afraid that I might smell it. Now whatfruit without much scent is in season just now? When I know that I shallhave guessed the riddle!'As has been said before, Moti was a country lad, and was accustomedto work in his father's garden. He knew all the common fruits, so hethought he ought to be able to guess right. but so as not to let itseem too easy, he gazed up at the ceiling with a puzzled expression, andlooked down at the floor with an air or wisdom and his fingers pressedagainst his forehead, and then he said, slowly, with his eyes on theking, 'It is freshly plucked! It is round and it is red! It is a pomegranate!'Now the king knew nothing about fruits except that they were good toeat. and, as for seasons, he asked for whatever fruit he wanted wheneverhe wanted it, and saw that he got it. so to him Moti's guess was likea miracle, and clear proof not only of his wisdom but of his innocence,for it was a pomegranate that he had put into the box. Of course whenthe king marvelled and praised Moti's wisdom, everybody else did so too.and, whilst the Afghans went off crestfallen, Moti took the horse andentered the king's service.Very soon after this, Moti, who continued to live in the serai, cameback one wet and stormy evening to find that his precious horse hadstrayed. Nothing remained of him but a broken halter cord, and no oneknew what had become of him. After inquiring of everyone who was likelyto know, Moti seized the cord and his big staff and sallied out tolook for him. Away and away he tramped out of the city and into theneighbouring forest, tracking hoof marks in the mud. Presently itgrew late, but still Moti wandered on until suddenly in the gatheringdarkness he came right upon a tiger who was contentedly eating hishorse.'You thief!' shrieked Moti, and ran up and, just as the tiger, inastonishment, dropped a bone whack! came Moti's staff on his head withsuch good will that the beast was half stunned and could hardly breatheor see. Then Moti continued to shower upon him blows and abuse until thepoor tiger could hardly stand, whereupon his tormentor tied the end ofthe broken halter round his neck and dragged him back to the serai.'If you had my horse,' he said, 'I will at least have you, that's fairenough!' And he tied him up securely by the head and heels, much as heused to tie the horse. then, the night being far gone, he flung himselfbeside him and slept soundly.You cannot imagine anything like the fright of the people in theserai, when they woke up and found a tiger very battered but stilla tiger securely tethered amongst themselves and their beasts! Mengathered in groups talking and exclaiming, and finding fault with theinnkeeper for allowing such a dangerous beast into the serai, and allthe while the innkeeper was just as troubled as the rest, and none daredgo near the place where the tiger stood blinking miserably on everyone,and where Moti lay stretched out snoring like thunder.At last news reached the king that Moti had exchanged his horse for alive tiger. and the monarch himself came down, half disbelieving thetale, to see if it were really true. Someone at last awaked Moti withthe news that his royal master was come. and he arose yawning, and wassoon delightedly explaining and showing off his new possession. Theking, however, did not share his pleasure at all, but called up asoldier to shoot the tiger, much to the relief of all the inmates of theserai except Moti. If the king, however, was before convinced that Motiwas one of the wisest of men, he was now still more convinced that hewas the bravest, and he increased his pay a hundredfold, so that ourhero thought that he was the luckiest of men.A week or two after this incident the king sent for Moti, who on arrivalfound his master in despair. A neighbouring monarch, he explained, whohad many more soldiers than he, had declared war against him, and he wasat his wits' end, for he had neither money to buy him off nor soldiersenough to fight him what was he to do?'If that is all, don't you trouble,' said Moti. 'Turn out your men, andI'll go with them, and we'll soon bring this robber to reason.'The king began to revive at these hopeful words, and took Moti off tohis stable where he bade him choose for himself any horse he liked.There were plenty of fine horses in the stalls, but to the king'sastonishment Moti chose a poor little rat of a pony that was used tocarry grass and water for the rest of the stable.'But why do you choose that beast?' said the king.'Well, you see, your majesty,' replied Moti, 'there are so many chancesthat I may fall off, and if I choose one of your fine big horses I shallhave so far to fall that I shall probably break my leg or my arm, if notmy neck, but if I fall off this little beast I can't hurt myself much.'A very comical sight was Moti when he rode out to the war. The onlyweapon he carried was his staff, and to help him to keep his balanceon horseback he had tied to each of his ankles a big stone that nearlytouched the ground as he sat astride the little pony. The rest of theking's cavalry were not very numerous, but they pranced along in armouron fine horses. Behind them came a great rabble of men on foot armedwith all sorts of weapons, and last of all was the king with hisattendants, very nervous and ill at ease. So the army started.They had not very far to go, but Moti's little pony, weighted with aheavy man and two big rocks, soon began to lag behind the cavalry,and would have lagged behind the infantry too, only they were not veryanxious to be too early in the fight, and hung back so as to give Motiplenty of time. The young man jogged along more and more slowly for sometime, until at last, getting impatient at the slowness of the pony,he gave him such a tremendous thwack with his staff that the ponycompletely lost his temper and bolted. First one stone became untiedand rolled away in a cloud of dust to one side of the road, whilst Motinearly rolled off too, but clasped his steed valiantly by its raggedmane, and, dropping his staff, held on for dear life. Then, fortunatelythe other rock broke away from his other leg and rolled thunderouslydown a neighbouring ravine. Meanwhile the advanced cavalry had barelytime to draw to one side when Moti came dashing by, yelling bloodthirstythreats to his pony:'You wait till I get hold of you! I'll skin you alive! I'll wring yourneck! I'll break every bone in your body!' The cavalry thought thatthis dreadful language was meant for the enemy, and were filled withadmiration of his courage. Many of their horses too were quite upset bythis whirlwind that galloped howling through their midst, and in a fewminutes, after a little plunging and rearing and kicking, the wholetroop were following on Moti's heels.Far in advance, Moti continued his wild career. Presently in his coursehe came to a great field of castor oil plants, ten or twelve feet high,big and bushy, but quite green and soft. Hoping to escape from the backof his fiery steed Moti grasped one in passing, but its roots gaveway, and he dashed on, with the whole plant looking like a young treeflourishing in his grip.The enemy were in battle array, advancing over the plain, their kingwith them confident and cheerful, when suddenly from the front came adesperate rider at a furious gallop.'Sire!' he cried, 'save yourself! the enemy are coming!''What do you mean?' said the king.'Oh, sire!' panted the messenger, 'fly at once, there is no time tolose. Foremost of the enemy rides a mad giant at a furious gallop. Heflourishes a tree for a club and is wild with anger, for as he goes hecries, "You wait till I get hold of you! I'll skin you alive! I'll wringyour neck! I'll break every bone in your body!" Others ride behind, andyou will do well to retire before this whirlwind of destruction comesupon you.'Just then out of a cloud of dust in the distance the king saw Motiapproaching at a hard gallop, looking indeed like a giant compared withthe little beast he rode, whirling his castor oil plant, which in thedistance might have been an oak tree, and the sound of his revilings andshoutings came down upon the breeze! Behind him the dust cloud movedto the sound of the thunder of hoofs, whilst here and there flashed theglitter of steel. The sight and the sound struck terror into the king,and, turning his horse, he fled at top speed, thinking that a regimentof yelling giants was upon him. and all his force followed him as fastas they might go. One fat officer alone could not keep up on foot withthat mad rush, and as Moti came galloping up he flung himself on theground in abject fear. This was too much for Moti's excited pony, whoshied so suddenly that Moti went flying over his head like a sky rocket,and alighted right on the top of his fat foe.Quickly regaining his feet Moti began to swing his plant round his headand to shout:'Where are your men? Bring them up and I'll kill them. My regiments!Come on, the whole lot of you! Where's your king? Bring him to me. Hereare all my fine fellows coming up and we'll each pull up a tree by theroots and lay you all flat and your houses and towns and everythingelse! Come on!'But the poor fat officer could do nothing but squat on his knees withhis hands together, gasping. At last, when he got his breath, Moti senthim off to bring his king, and to tell him that if he was reasonable hislife should be spared. Off the poor man went, and by the time the troopsof Moti's side had come up and arranged themselves to look as formidableas possible, he returned with his king. The latter was very humble andapologetic, and promised never to make war any more, to pay a large sumof money, and altogether do whatever his conqueror wished.So the armies on both sides went rejoicing home, and this was reallythe making of the fortune of clumsy Moti, who lived long and contrivedalways to be looked up to as a fountain of wisdom, valour, anddiscretion by all except his relations, who could never understand whathe had done to be considered so much wiser than anyone else.A Pushto Story.