GameOne day Brer Fox came along all rigged out and asked Brer Rabbit to gohunting with him, but Brer Rabbit, he sort of felt lazy, and he told BrerFox that he had some other fish to fry. Brer Fox felt might sorry, he did,but he said he believed he would try his hand anyhow, and off he went.He was gone all day, and he had a monstrous streak of luck, Brer Foxdid, and he bagged a sight of game. By and by, towards the shank ofevening, Brer Rabbit sort of stretched himself, he did, and allowed thatit was almost time for Brer Fox to be getting along home.Then Brer Rabbit, he went and mounted a stump to see if he could hearBrer Fox coming. He hadn't been there long when sure enough here came BrerFox through the woods singing like a Negro at a frolic. Brer Rabbit, heleapt down off the stump, he did, and lay down in the road and made likehe was dead.Brer Fox, he came along, he did, and saw Brer Rabbit lying there. Heturned him over, he did, and examined him, and he said, "This here rabbitis dead. He looks like he's been dead a long time. He's dead, but he'smighty fat. He is the fattest rabbit that I ever saw, but he's been deadtoo long. I am afraid to take him home," he said.Brer Rabbit didn't say anything. Brer Fox, he sort of licked his chops,but he went on and left Brer Rabbit lying in the road. Directly he was outof sight, Brer Rabbit, he jumped up, he did, and ran around through thewoods and got in front of Brer Fox again. Brer Fox, he came up and therelay Brer Rabbit, apparently cold and stiff.Brer Fox, he looked at Brer Rabbit, and he sort of studied. After awhile he unslung his game bag, and he said to himself, "This here rabbitis going to waste. I'll just leave my game here, and I'll go back and getthat other rabbit, and I'll make folks believe that I'm Old Man Hunterfrom Huntsville," he said.With that he dropped his game and loped back up the road after theother rabbit, and when he was out of sight, old Brer Rabbit, he snatchedup Brer Fox's game and put out for home.The next time he saw Brer Fox he hollered out, "What did you kill theother day?" he said.Then Brer Fox, he sort of combed his flank with his tongue, andhollered back, "I caught a handful of hard sense, Brer Rabbit," hesaid.Then old Brer Rabbit, he laughed, he did, and up and responded, "If I'dhave known you were after that, Brer Fox, I'd have loaned you some ofmine," he said.