One time Brer Rabbit was going along through the bushes singing tohimself, and he saw a shadow pass before him. He looked up, and there wasMr. Hawk sailing around and around. Every time he sailed around, he got alittle closer, but Brer Rabbit didn't notice this, and by and by, down hedropped right slam bang on Brer Rabbit, and there he had him. He held himin a mighty tight grip. He held him so tight that it made Brer Rabbit'sbreath come short like it does off a long journey.He hollered and he begged, but that didn't do any good. He squalled andhe cried, but that didn't do any good. He kicked and he groaned, but thatdidn't do any good. Then Brer Rabbit lay still and studied about what inthe name of goodness he was going to do. By and by he up and allowed, "Idon't know what you want with me, Mr. Hawk. I am scarcely a mouthful foryou."Mr. Hawk, he said, "I'll do away with you, and then I'll go catch me acouple of jay birds."This made Brer Rabbit shake all over, because if there was any kind ofcreature that he despised on the topside of the earth, it was a jay bird.Brer Rabbit, he said, "Do pray, Mr. Hawk, go catch those jay birds first,because I can't stand them being on top of me. I'll stay right here untilyou come back," he said.Mr. Hawk, he said, "Oh oh, Brer Rabbit, you've been fooling too manyfolks. You're not fooling me," he said.Brer Rabbit, he said, "If you can't do that, Mr. Hawk, then the bestthing for you to do is to wait and let me get tame, because I am so wildnow that I won't taste good."Mr. Hawk, he said, "Oh oh!"Brer Rabbit, he said, "Well then, if that won't do, you had better waitand let me grow big, so I'll be a full meal of vittles."Mr. Hawk, he said, "Now you are talking sense!"Brer Rabbit, he said, "And I'll rush around among the bushes and driveout some partridges for you, and we'll have more fun than what you canshake a stick at."Mr. Hawk was sort of studying about this, and Brer Rabbit, he begged,and he explained, and the long and short of it was that Brer Rabbit gotloose, and he did not get any bigger, and neither did he drive out anypartridges for Mr. Hawk.