"The animals and the creatures," said Uncle Remus, shaking his coffeearound in the bottom of his tin cup, in order to gather up all the sugar,they just kept on getting more and more familiar with oneanother, until by and by it wasn't long before Brer Rabbit and Brer Foxand Brer Possum got to sort of bunching their provisions together in thesame shanty. After a while the roof sort of began to leak, and one dayBrer Rabbit and Brer Fox and Brer Possum assembled to see if they couldn'tkind of patch it up. They had a big day's work in front of them, and theyfetched their dinner with them. They lumped the vittles up in one pile,and the butter that Brer Fox brought, they went and put it in thespring house to keep it cool, and then they went to work, and it wasn'tlong before Brer Rabbit's stomach began to sort of growl and pester him.Brer Fox's butter sat heavy on his mind, and his mouth watered every timehe remembered it.Presently he said to himself that he would like to have a nipat the butter, and then he laid out his plans, he did. First thing youknow, while they were working along, Brer Rabbit raised his head quicklyand flung his ears forward, and hollered out, "Here I am. What do you wantwith me?" and off he went, like something was after him.He sallied around, old Brer Rabbit did, and after he made surethat nobody was following, he bounced into the spring house, and there hestayed until he got a helping of butter. Then he sauntered on back andwent to work."Where have you been?" said Brer Fox."I heard my children calling me," said Brer Rabbit, "and I hadto go see what they wanted. My old woman has gone and taken sick," hesaid.They worked on until by and by the butter tasted so good thatold Brer Rabbit wanted some more. Then he raised up his head, he did, andhollered out, "Heyo! Hold on! I'm a coming!" And off he went.This time he stayed a good while, and when he got back, BrerFox asked him where he'd been."I've been to see my old woman, and she's sinking," hesaid.Directly Brer Rabbit heard them calling him again, and off hewent, and this time, bless your soul, he got the butter out so clean thathe could see himself in the bottom of the bucket. He scraped it clean andlicked it dry, and then he went back to work looking like a black man thathad been picked up by the plantation patrol."How's your old woman this time?" said BrerRabbit."I'm obliged to you, Brer Fox," said Brer Rabbit, "but I'mafraid that she's gone by now," and that sort of made Brer Fox and BrerPossum feel in mourning with Brer Rabbit.By and by, when dinnertime came, they all got out theirvittles, but Brer Rabbit kept on looking lonesome, and Brer Fox and BrerPossum, they sort of rustled around to see if they couldn't make BrerRabbit feel sort of splimmy."What is that, Uncle Remus?" asked the little boy."Sort of splimmy splammy (feeling fine), honey. Sort of like he wasamong friends, sort of like his old woman wasn't dead after all. You knowwhat folks do when they are around people who are mourning?The little boy didn't know, fortunately for him, and Uncle Remus wenton:Brer Fox and Brer Possum rustled around, they did, getting outthe vittles, and by and by Brer Fox, he said, "Brer Possum, you run downto the spring and fetch the butter, and I'll sail around you and set thetable," he said.Brer Possum, he loped off after the butter, and directly hecame loping back with his ears a trembling and his tongue a hangingout."Brer Fox!" he hollered out."What's the matter now, Brer Possum?" he said."You all had better run, folks" said Brer Possum. "The lastdrop of that butter is gone.""Where did it go?" said Brer Fox."It looks like it dried up," said Brer Possum.Then Brer Rabbit, he looked sort of solemn, he did, and he upand said, "I suspect that the butter melted in somebody's mouth," hesaid.Then they went down to the spring with Brer Possum, and sureenough, the butter was gone. While they were talking about the mystery,Brer rabbit said that he could see tracks all around there, and he pointedout that if they would all go to sleep, he could catch the chap that stolethe butter.They all lay down, and Brer Fox and Brer Possum, they soondropped off to sleep, but Brer Rabbit, he stayed awake, and when the timecame, he got up easy, and smeared Brer Possum's mouth with the butter onhis paws, and then he ran off and nibbled up the best of the dinner thatthey had left lying out, and then he came back and woke up Brer Fox andshowed him the butter on Brer Possum's mouth. Then they woke up BrerPossum and told him about it, but of course Brer Possum denied it to thelast.Now Brer Fox, he's kind of a lawyer, and he argued this way:that Brer Possum was the first one at the butter, and the first one tomiss it, and more than that, there were the signs on hismouth.Brer Possum could see that they had him jammed up in a corner,and then he up and said that the way to catch the man that stole thebutter was to build a big brush heap and set it on fire, and everyonewould try to jump over it, and the one that fell in, that would be thechap that stole the butter.Brer Rabbit and Brer Fox, they both agreed, they did, and theywhirled in and built the brush heap, and they built it high, and theybuilt it wide, and then they touched it off. When it got to blazing upgood, Brer Rabbit he took the first turn. He sort of stepped back, andlooked around and giggled, and over he went, just like a birdflying.Then came Brer Fox. He got back a little further, and spit onhis hands, and lit out and made the jump, and he came so close to fallingin that his tail caught fire."Haven't you ever seen a fox, honey?" inquired Uncle Remus, in a tonethat implied both conciliation and information.The little boy thought probably he had, but he wouldn't commithimself."Well then, continued the old man, "next time you see one of them, youlook right close and see if the end of his tail isn't white. It's justlike I tell you. They bear the scar of that brush right down to this day.They are marked, that's what they are. They are marked.""And what about Brother Possum?" asked the little boy."Old Brer Possum, he took a running start, he did, and he camelumbering along, and he lit   kerblam!   right in the middle of thefire, and that was the last of old Brer Possum.""But, Uncle Remus, Brother Possum didn't steal the butter after all,"said the little boy, who was not at all satisfied with such summaryinjustice."That's what makes me say what I say, honey. In this world, lots offolks have to suffer for other folks' sins. It looks like it's mightywrong, but it's just that way. Tribulation seems like it's a waiting justaround the corner to catch one and all of us, honey."