There once lived a Munachar and a Manachar, a long time ago, and it isa long time since it was, and if they were alive now they would not bealive then. They went out together to pick raspberries, and as many asMunachar used to pick Manachar used to eat. Munachar said he must golook for a rod to make a gad to hang Manachar, who ate his raspberriesevery one. and he came to the rod. "What news the day?" said the rod."It is my own news that I'm seeking. Going looking for a rod, a rod tomake a gad, a gad to hang Manachar, who ate my raspberries every one.""You will not get me," said the rod, "until you get an axe to cut me."He came to the axe. "What news to day?" said the axe. "It's my own newsI'm seeking. Going looking for an axe, an axe to cut a rod, a rod tomake a gad, a gad to hang Manachar, who ate my raspberries every one.""You will not get me," said the axe, "until you get a flag to edge me."He came to the flag. "What news today?" says the flag. "It's my ownnews I'm seeking. Going looking for a flag, flag to edge axe, axe tocut a rod, a rod to make a gad, a gad to hang Manachar, who ate myraspberries every one.""You will not get me," says the flag, "till you get water to wet me."He came to the water. "What news to day?" says the water. "It's my ownnews that I'm seeking. Going looking for water, water to wet flag, flagto edge axe, axe to cut a rod, a rod to make a gad, a gad to hangManachar, who ate my raspberries every one.""You will not get me," said the water, "until you get a deer who willswim me." He came to the deer. "What news to day?" says the deer. "It'smy own news I'm seeking. Going looking for a deer, deer to swim water,water to wet flag, flag to edge axe, axe to cut a rod, a rod to make agad, a gad to hang Manachar, who ate my raspberries every one.""You will not get me," said the deer, "until you get a hound who willhunt me." He came to the hound. "What news to day?" says the hound."It's my own news I'm seeking. Going looking for a hound, hound to huntdeer, deer to swim water, water to wet flag, flag to edge axe, axe tocut a rod, a rod to make a gad, a gad to hang Manachar, who ate myraspberries every one.""You will not get me," said the hound, "until you get a bit of butterto put in my claw." He came to the butter. "What news to day?" says thebutter. "It's my own news I'm seeking. Going looking for butter, butterto go in claw of hound, hound to hunt deer, deer to swim water, waterto wet flag, flag to edge axe, axe to cut a rod, a rod to make a gad, agad to hang Manachar, who ate my raspberries every one.""You will not get me," said the butter, "until you get a cat who shallscrape me." He came to the cat. "What news to day?" said the cat. "It'smy own news I'm seeking. Going looking for a cat, cat to scrape butter,butter to go in claw of hound, hound to hunt deer, deer to swim water,water to wet flag, flag to edge axe, axe to cut a rod, a rod to make agad, gad to hang Manachar, who ate my raspberries every one.""You will not get me," said the cat, "until you will get milk which youwill give me." He came to the cow. "What news to day?" said the cow."It's my own news I'm seeking. Going looking for a cow, cow to give memilk, milk I will give to the cat, cat to scrape butter, butter to goin claw of hound, hound to hunt deer, deer to swim water, water to wetflag, flag to edge axe, axe to cut a rod, a rod to make a gad, a gad tohang Manachar, who ate my raspberries every one.""You will not get any milk from me," said the cow, "until you bring mea whisp of straw from those threshers yonder." He came to thethreshers. "What news to day?" said the threshers. "It's my own newsI'm seeking. Going looking for a whisp of straw from ye to give to thecow, the cow to give me milk, milk I will give to the cat, cat toscrape butter, butter to go in claw of hound, hound to hunt deer, deerto swim water, water to wet flag, flag to edge axe, axe to cut a rod, arod to make a gad, a gad to hang Manachar, who ate my raspberries everyone.""You will not get any whisp of straw from us," said the threshers,"until you bring us the makings of a cake from the miller over yonder."He came to the miller. "What news to day?" said the miller. "It's myown news I'm seeking. Going looking for the makings of a cake which Iwill give to the threshers, the threshers to give me a whisp of straw,the whisp of straw I will give to the cow, the cow to give me milk,milk I will give to the cat, cat to scrape butter, butter to go in clawof hound, hound to hunt deer, deer to swim water, water to wet flag,flag to edge axe, axe to cut a rod, a rod to make a gad, a gad to hangManachar, who ate my raspberries every one.""You will not get any makings of a cake from me," said the miller,"till you bring me the full of that sieve of water from the river overthere."He took the sieve in his hand and went over to the river, but as oftenas ever he would stoop and fill it with water, the moment he raised itthe water would run out of it again, and sure, if he had been therefrom that day till this, he never could have filled it. A crow wentflying by him, over his head. "Daub! daub!" said the crow."My blessings on ye, then," said Munachar, "but it's the good adviceyou have," and he took the red clay and the daub that was by the brink,and he rubbed it to the bottom of the sieve, until all the holes werefilled, and then the sieve held the water, and he brought the water tothe miller, and the miller gave him the makings of a cake, and he gavethe makings of the cake to the threshers, and the threshers gave him awhisp of straw, and he gave the whisp of straw to the cow, and the cowgave him milk, the milk he gave to the cat, the cat scraped the butter,the butter went into the claw of the hound, the hound hunted the deer,the deer swam the water, the water wet the flag, the flag sharpened theaxe, the axe cut the rod, and the rod made a gad, and when he had itready to hang Manachar he found that Manachar had BURST.