In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland,the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the newdoctrines of the Christian teaching. Part held with the old creed andpart with the new, and the thought of the people was troubled betweenthem, for they knew not which way to follow and which to forsake. Thefaith of their forefathers clung close around them, holding them by manyfine and tender threads of memory and custom and tradition. yet stillthe new faith was making its way, and every day it spread wider andwider through the land.The family of Murtough had joined itself to the Christian faith, and histhree brothers were bishops and abbots of the Church, but Murtoughhimself remained a pagan, for he was a wild and lawless prince, and thepeaceful teachings of the Christian doctrine, with its forgiveness ofenemies, pleased him not at all. Fierce and cruel was his life, filledwith dark deeds and bloody wars, and savage and tragic was his death, aswe shall hear.Now Murtough was in the sunny summer palace of Cletty, which Cormac, sonof Art, had built for a pleasure house on the brink of the slow flowingBoyne, near the Fairy Brugh of Angus the Ever Young, the God of Youthand Beauty. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth tohunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions aroundhim. But when the high noon came the sun grew hot, and the King sat downto rest upon the fairy mound, and the hunt passed on beyond him, and hewas left alone.There was a witch woman in that country whose name was "Sigh, Sough,Storm, Rough Wind, Winter Night, Cry, Wail, and Groan." Star bright andbeautiful was she in face and form, but inwardly she was cruel as hernames. And she hated Murtough because he had scattered and destroyed theAncient Peoples of the Fairy Tribes of Erin, her country and herfatherland, and because in the battle which he fought at Cerb on theBoyne her father and her mother and her sister had been slain. For inthose days women went to battle side by side with men.She knew, too, that with the coming of the new faith trouble would comeupon the fairy folk, and their power and their great majesty woulddepart from them, and men would call them demons, and would drive themout with psalm singing and with the saying of prayers, and with thesound of little tinkling bells. So trouble and anger wrought in thewitch woman, and she waited the day to be revenged on Murtough, for hebeing yet a pagan, was still within her power to harm.So when Sheen (for Sheen or "Storm" was the name men gave to her) sawthe King seated on the fairy mound and all his comrades parted from him,she arose softly, and combed her hair with her comb of silver adornedwith little ribs of gold, and she washed her hands in a silver basinwherein were four golden birds sitting on the rim of the bowl, andlittle bright gems of carbuncle set round about the rim. And she donnedher fairy mantle of flowing green, and her cloak, wide and hooded, withsilvery fringes, and a brooch of fairest gold. On her head were tressesyellow like to gold, plaited in four locks, with a golden drop at theend of each long tress. The hue of her hair was like the flower of theiris in summer or like red gold after the burnishing thereof. And shewore on her breasts and at her shoulders marvellous clasps of gold,finely worked with the tracery of the skilled craftsman, and a goldentwisted torque around her throat. And when she was decked she wentsoftly and sat down beside Murtough on the turfy hunting mound. Andafter a space Murtough perceived her sitting there, and the sun shiningupon her, so that the glittering of the gold and of her golden hair andthe bright shining of the green silk of her garments, was like theyellow iris beds upon the lake on a sunny summer's day. Wonder andterror seized on Murtough at her beauty, and he knew not if he lovedher or if he hated her the most. for at one moment all his nature wasfilled with longing and with love of her, so that it seemed to him thathe would give the whole of Ireland for the loan of one hour's space ofdalliance with her. but after that he felt a dread of her, because heknew his fate was in her hands, and that she had come to work him ill.But he welcomed her as if she were known to him and he asked herwherefore she was come. "I am come," she said, "because I am beloved ofMurtough, son of Erc, King of Erin, and I come to seek him here." ThenMurtough was glad, and he said, "Dost thou not know me, maiden?" "I do,"she answered, "for all secret and mysterious things are known to me andthou and all the men of Erin are well known."After he had conversed with her awhile, she appeared to him so fair thatthe King was ready to promise her anything in life she wished, so longas she would go with him to Cletty of the Boyne. "My wish," she said,"is that you take me to your house, and that you put out from it yourwife and your children because they are of the new faith, and all theclerics that are in your house, and that neither your wife nor anycleric be permitted to enter the house while I am there.""I will give you," said the King, "a hundred head of every herd ofcattle that is within my kingdom, and a hundred drinking horns, and ahundred cups, and a hundred rings of gold, and a feast every other nightin the summer palace of Cletty. But I pledge thee my word, oh, maiden,it were easier for me to give thee half of Ireland than to do thisthing that thou hast asked." For Murtough feared that when those thatwere of the Christian faith were put out of his house, she would workher spells upon him, and no power would be left with him to resist thosespells."I will not take thy gifts," said the damsel, "but only those thingsthat I have asked. moreover, it is thus, that my name must never beuttered by thee, nor must any man or woman learn it.""What is thy name," said Murtough, "that it may not come upon my lips toutter it?"And she said, "Sigh, Sough, Storm, Rough Wind, Winter Night, Cry, Wail,Groan, this is my name, but men call me Sheen, for 'Storm' or Sheen ismy chief name, and storms are with me where I come."Nevertheless, Murtough was so fascinated by her that he brought her tohis home, and drove out the clerics that were there, with his wife andchildren along with them, and drove out also the nobles of his own clan,the children of Niall, two great and gallant battalions. And Duivsech,his wife, went crying along the road with her children around her toseek Bishop Cairnech, the half brother of her husband, and her ownsoul friend, that she might obtain help and shelter from him.But Sheen went gladly and light heartedly into the House of Cletty, andwhen she saw the lovely lightsome house and the goodly nobles of theclan of Niall, and the feasting and banqueting and the playing of theminstrels and all the joyous noise of that kingly dwelling, her heartwas lifted within her, and "Fair as a fairy palace is this house ofCletty," said she."Fair, indeed, it is," replied the King. "for neither the Kings ofLeinster nor the Kings of mighty Ulster, nor the lords of the clans ofOwen or of Niall, have such a house as this. nay, in Tara of the Kingsitself, no house to equal this house of mine is found." And that nightthe King robed himself in all the splendour of his royal dignity, and onhis right hand he seated Sheen, and a great banquet was made beforethem, and men said that never on earth was to be seen a woman moregoodly of appearance than she. And the King was astonished at her, andhe began to ask her questions, for it seemed to him that the power of agreat goddess of the ancient time was in her. and he asked her whenceshe came, and what manner was the power that he saw in her. He askedher, too, did she believe in the God of the clerics, or was she herselfsome goddess of the older world? For he feared her, feeling that hisfate was in her hands.She laughed a careless and a cruel laugh, for she knew that the King wasin their power, now that she was there alone with him, and the clericsand the Christian teachers gone. "Fear me not, O Murtough," she cried."I am, like thee, a daughter of the race of men of the ancient family ofAdam and of Eve. fit and meet my comradeship with thee. therefore, fearnot nor regret. And as to that true God of thine, worker of miracles andhelper of His people, no miracle in all the world is there that I, bymine own unaided power, cannot work the like. I can create a sun andmoon. the heavens I can sprinkle with radiant stars of night. I can callup to life men fiercely fighting in conflict, slaughtering one another.Wine I could make of the cold water of the Boyne, and sheep of lifelessstones, and swine of ferns. In the presence of the hosts I can makegold and silver, plenty and to spare. and hosts of famous fighting men Ican produce from naught. Now, tell me, can thy God work the like?""Work for us," says the King, "some of these great wonders." Then Sheenwent forth out of the house, and she set herself to work spells onMurtough, so that he knew not whether he was in his right mind or no.She took of the water of the Boyne and made a magic wine thereout, andshe took ferns and spiked thistles and light puff balls of the woods,and out of them she fashioned magic swine and sheep and goats, and withthese she fed Murtough and the hosts. And when they had eaten, all theirstrength went from them, and the magic wine sent them into an uneasysleep and restless slumbers. And out of stones and sods of earth shefashioned three battalions, and one of the battalions she placed at oneside of the house, and the other at the further side beyond it, and oneencircling the rest southward along the hollow windings of the glen. Andthus were these battalions, one of them all made of men stark naked andtheir colour blue, and the second with heads of goats with shaggy beardsand horned. but the third, more terrible than they, for these wereheadless men, fighting like human beings, yet finished at the neck. andthe sound of heavy shouting as of hosts and multitudes came from thefirst and the second battalion, but from the third no sound save onlythat they waved their arms and struck their weapons together, and smotethe ground with their feet impatiently. And though terrible was theshout of the blue men and the bleating of the goats with human limbs,more horrible yet was the stamping and the rage of those headless men,finished at the neck.And Murtough, in his sleep and in his dreams, heard the battle shout,and he rose impetuously from off his bed, but the wine overcame him, andhis strength departed from him, and he fell helplessly upon the floor.Then he heard the challenge a second time, and the stamping of the feetwithout, and he rose again, and madly, fiercely, he set on them,charging the hosts and scattering them before him, as he thought, as faras the fairy palace of the Brugh. But all his strength was lost infighting phantoms, for they were but stones and sods and withered leavesof the forest that he took for fighting men.Now Duivsech, Murtough's wife, knew what was going on. She called uponCairnech to arise and to gather together the clans of the children ofhis people, the men of Owen and of Niall, and together they went to thefort. but Sheen guarded it well, so that they could by no means find anentrance. Then Cairnech was angry, and he cursed the place, and he dug agrave before the door, and he stood up upon the mound of the grave, andrang his bells and cursed the King and his house, and prophesied hisdownfall. But he blessed the clans of Owen and of Niall, and theyreturned to their own country.Then Cairnech sent messengers to seek Murtough and to draw him away fromthe witch woman who sought his destruction, but because she was solovely the King would believe no evil of her. and whenever he made anysign to go to Cairnech, she threw her spell upon the King, so that hecould not break away. When he was so weak and faint that he had no powerleft, she cast a sleep upon him, and she went round the house, puttingeverything in readiness. She called upon her magic host of warriors, andset them round the fortress, with their spears and javelins pointedinwards towards the house, so that the King would not dare to go outamongst them. And that night was a night of Samhain tide, the eve ofWednesday after All Souls' Day.Then she went everywhere throughout the house, and took lighted brandsand burning torches, and scattered them in every part of the dwelling.And she returned into the room wherein Murtough slept, and lay down byhis side. And she caused a great wind to spring up, and it came soughingthrough the house from the north west. and the King said, "This is thesigh of the winter night." And Sheen smiled, because, unwittingly, theKing had spoken her name, for she knew by that that the hour of herrevenge had come. "'Tis I myself that am Sigh and Winter Night," shesaid, "and I am Rough Wind and Storm, a daughter of fair nobles. and Iam Cry and Wail, the maid of elfin birth, who brings ill luck to men."After that she caused a great snowstorm to come round the house. andlike the noise of troops and the rage of battle was the storm, beatingand pouring in on every side, so that drifts of deep snow were piledagainst the walls, blocking the doors and chilling the folk that werefeasting within the house. But the King was lying in a heavy, unrestingsleep, and Sheen was at his side. Suddenly he screamed out of his sleepand stirred himself, for he heard the crash of falling timbers and thenoise of the magic hosts, and he smelled the strong smell of fire in thepalace.He sprang up. "It seems to me," he cried, "that hosts of demons arearound the house, and that they are slaughtering my people, and that thehouse of Cletty is on fire." "It was but a dream," the witch maidensaid. Then he slept again, and he saw a vision, to wit, that he wastossing in a ship at sea, and the ship floundered, and above his head agriffin, with sharp beak and talons, sailed, her wings outspread andcovering all the sun, so that it was dark as middle night. and lo! asshe rose on high, her plumes quivered for a moment in the air. then downshe swooped and picked him from the waves, carrying him to her eyrie onthe dismal cliff outhanging o'er the ocean. and the griffin began topierce him and to prod him with her talons, and to pick out pieces ofhis flesh with her beak. and this went on awhile, and then a flame, thatcame he knew not whence, rose from the nest, and he and the griffin wereenveloped in the flame. Then in her beak the griffin picked him up, andtogether they fell downward over the cliff's edge into the seethingocean. so that, half by fire and half by water, he died a miserabledeath.When the King saw that vision, he rose screaming from his sleep, anddonned his arms. and he made one plunge forward seeking for the magichosts, but he found no man to answer him. The damsel went forth from thehouse, and Murtough made to follow her, but as he turned the flamesleaped out, and all between him and the door was one vast sheet offlame. He saw no way of escape, save the vat of wine that stood in thebanqueting hall, and into that he got. but the burning timbers of theroof fell upon his head and the hails of fiery sparks rained on him, sothat half of him was burned and half was drowned, as he had seen in hisdream.The next day, amid the embers, the clerics found his corpse, and theytook it up and washed it in the Boyne, and carried it to Tuilen to buryit. And they said, "Alas! that Mac Erca, High King of Erin, of the noblerace of Conn and of the descendants of Ugaine the Great, should diefighting with sods and stones! Alas! that the Cross of Christ was notsigned upon his face that he might have known the witchdoms of themaiden what they were."As they went thus, bewailing the death of Murtough and bearing him tohis grave, Duivsech, wife of Murtough, met them, and when she found herhusband dead, she struck her hands together and she made a great andmournful lamentation. and because weakness came upon her she leaned herback against the ancient tree that is in Aenech Reil. and a burst ofblood broke from her heart, and there she died, grieving for herhusband. And the grave of Murtough was made wide and deep, and therethey laid the Queen beside him, two in the one grave, near the northside of the little church that is in Tuilen.Now, when the burial was finished, and the clerics were reciting overhis grave the deeds of the King, and were making prayers for Murtough'ssoul that it might be brought out of hell, for Cairnech showed greatcare for this, they saw coming towards them across the sward a lonelywoman, star bright and beautiful, and a kirtle of priceless silk uponher, and a green mantle with its fringes of silver thread flowing to theground. She reached the place where the clerics were, and saluted them,and they saluted her. And they marvelled at her beauty, but theyperceived on her an appearance of sadness and of heavy grief. They askedof her, "Who art thou, maiden, and wherefore art thou come to the houseof mourning? For a king lies buried here." "A king lies buried here,indeed," said she, "and I it was who slew him, Murtough of the manydeeds, of the race of Conn and Niall, High King of Ireland and of theWest. And though it was I who wrought his death, I myself will die forgrief of him."And they said, "Tell us, maiden, why you brought him to his death, if sobe that he was dear to thee?" And she said, "Murtough was dear to me,indeed, dearest of the men of the whole world. for I am Sheen, thedaughter of Sige, the son of Dian, from whom Ath Sigi or the 'Ford ofSige' is called to day. But Murtough slew my father, and my mother andsister were slain along with him, in the battle of Cerb upon the Boyne,and there was none of my house to avenge their death, save myself alone.Moreover, in his time the Ancient Peoples of the Fairy Tribes of Erinwere scattered and destroyed, the folk of the underworld and of myfatherland. and to avenge the wrong and loss he wrought on them I slewthe man I loved. I made poison for him. alas! I made for him magic drinkand food which took his strength away, and out of the sods of earth andpuff balls that float down the wind, I wrought men and armies ofheadless, hideous folk, till all his senses were distraught. And, now,take me to thee, O Cairnech, in fervent and true repentance, and signthe Cross of Christ upon my brow, for the time of my death is come."Then she made penitence for the sin that she had sinned, and she diedthere upon the grave of grief and of sorrow after the King. And theydigged a grave lengthways across the foot of the wide grave of Murtoughand his spouse, and there they laid the maiden who had wrought them woe.And the clerics wondered at those things, and they wrote them andrevised them in a book.ELEANOR HULL.