Court, and, indeed, on the people in general, that I began to have hopesof getting my liberty in a short time. The natives came by degrees to beless fearful of danger from me. I would sometimes lie down and let fiveor six of them dance on my hand. and at last the boys and girls venturedto come and play at hide and seek in my hair.The horses of the army and of the royal stables were no longer shy,having been daily led before me. and one of the Emperor's huntsmen, on alarge courser, took my foot, shoe and all, which was indeed a prodigiousleap. I amused the Emperor one day in a very extraordinary manner. Itook nine sticks, and fixed them firmly in the ground in a square. ThenI took four other sticks, and tied them parallel at each corner, abouttwo feet from the ground. I fastened my handkerchief to the nine sticksthat stood erect, and extended it on all sides till it was as tight asthe top of a drum. and I desired the Emperor to let a troop of his besthorse, twenty four in number, come and exercise upon this plain. Hismajesty approved of the proposal, and I took them up one by one, withthe proper officers to exercise them. As soon as they got into orderthey divided into two parties, discharged blunt arrows, drew theirswords, fled and pursued, and, in short, showed the best militarydiscipline I ever beheld. The parallel sticks secured them and theirhorses from falling off the stage, and the Emperor was so much delightedthat he ordered this entertainment to be repeated several days, andpersuaded the Empress herself to let me hold her in her chair withintwo yards of the stage, whence she could view the whole performance.Fortunately no accident happened, only once a fiery horse, pawing withhis hoof, struck a hole in my handkerchief, and overthrew his rider andhimself. But I immediately relieved them both, and covering the holewith one hand, I set down the troop with the other as I had taken themup. The horse that fell was strained in the shoulder. but the rider wasnot hurt, and I repaired my handkerchief as well as I could. However,I would not trust to the strength of it any more in such dangerousenterprises.I had sent so many petitions for my liberty that his Majesty at lengthmentioned the matter in a full council, where it was opposed by noneexcept Skyresh Bolgolam, admiral of the realm, who was pleased withoutany provocation to be my mortal enemy. However, he agreed at length,though he succeeded in himself drawing up the conditions on which Ishould be set free. After they were read I was requested to swear toperform them in the method prescribed by their laws, which was to holdmy right foot in my left hand, and to place the middle finger of myright hand on the crown of my head, and my thumb on the top of my rightear. But I have made a translation of the conditions, which I here offerto the public:"Golbaste Mamarem Evlame Gurdile Shefin Mully Ully Gue, Most MightyEmperor of Lilliput, delight and terror of the universe, whose dominionsextend to the ends of the globe, monarch of all monarchs, taller thanthe sons of men, whose feet press down to the center, and whose headstrikes against the sun, at whose nod the princes of the earth shaketheir knees, pleasant as the spring, comfortable as the summer, fruitfulas autumn, dreadful as winter: His Most Sublime Majesty proposeth to theMan Mountain, lately arrived at our celestial dominions, the followingarticles, which by a solemn oath he shall be obliged to perform:"First. The Man Mountain shall not depart from our dominions without ourlicense under the great seal."Second. He shall not presume to come into our metropolis without ourexpress order, at which time the inhabitants shall have two hours'warning to keep within doors."Third. The said Man Mountain shall confine his walks to our principalhigh roads, and not offer to walk or lie down in a meadow or field ofcorn."Fourth. As he walks the said roads he shall take the utmost care not totrample upon the bodies of any of our loving subjects, their horses orcarriages, nor take any of our subjects into his hands without their ownconsent."Fifth. If an express requires extraordinary speed the Man Mountainshall be obliged to carry in his pocket the messenger and horse a sixdays' journey, and return the said messenger (if so required) safe toour imperial presence."Sixth. He shall be our ally against our enemies in the island ofBlefuscu, and do his utmost to destroy their fleet, which is nowpreparing to invade us."Lastly. Upon his solemn oath to observe all the above articles,the said Man Mountain shall have a daily allowance of meat and drinksufficient for the support of 1,724 of our subjects, with free access toour royal person, and other marks of our favor. Given at our palace atBelfaburac, the twelfth day of the ninety first moon of our reign."I swore to these articles with great cheerfulness, whereupon my chainswere immediately unlocked, and I was at full liberty.One morning, about a fortnight after I had obtained my freedom,Reldresal, the Emperor's secretary for private affairs, came to myhouse, attended only by one servant. He ordered his coach to wait ata distance, and desired that I would give him an hour's audience. Ioffered to lie down that he might the more conveniently reach myear. but he chose rather to let me hold him in my hand during ourconversation. He began with compliments on my liberty, but he addedthat, save for the present state of things at Court, perhaps I might nothave obtained it so soon. "For," he said, "however flourishing we mayseem to foreigners, we are in danger of an invasion from the island ofBlefuscu, which is the other great empire of the universe, almost aslarge and as powerful as this of his Majesty. For as to what we haveheard you say, that there are other kingdoms in the world, inhabitedby human creatures as large as yourself, our philosophers are verydoubtful, and rather conjecture that you dropped from the moon, or oneof the stars, because a hundred mortals of your size would soon destroyall the fruit and cattle of his Majesty's dominions. Besides, ourhistories of six thousand moons make no mention of any other regionsthan the two mighty empires of Lilliput and Blefuscu, which, as I wasgoing to tell you, are engaged in a most obstinate war, which began inthe following manner: It is allowed on all hands that the primitiveway of breaking eggs was upon the larger end. but his present Majesty'sgrandfather, while he was a boy, going to eat an egg, and breaking itaccording to the ancient practice, happened to cut one of his fingers.Whereupon the Emperor, his father, made a law commanding all hissubjects to break the smaller end of their eggs. The people so highlyresented this law that there have been six rebellions raised on thataccount, wherein one emperor lost his life, and another his crown. It iscalculated that eleven hundred persons have at different times sufferedrather than break their eggs at the smaller end. But these rebels,the Bigendians, have found so much encouragement at the Emperor ofBlefuscu's Court, to which they always fled for refuge, that a bloodywar, as I said, has been carried on between the two empires forsix and thirty moons. and now the Blefuscudians have equipped a largefleet, and are preparing to descend upon us. Therefore his ImperialMajesty, placing great confidence in your valor and strength, hascommanded me to set the case before you."I desired the secretary to present my humble duty to the Emperor, andto let him know that I was ready, at the risk of my life, to defend himagainst all invaders.