In a tiny house in the North Countrie, far away from any town or village,there lived not long ago, a poor widow all alone with her little son, asix year old boy.The house door opened straight on to the hillside, and all round aboutwere moorlands and huge stones, and swampy hollows. never a house nor asign of life wherever you might look, for their nearest neighbors were the"ferlies" in the glen below, and the "will o' the wisps" in the long grassalong the path side.And many a tale she could tell of the "good folk" calling to each other inthe oak trees, and the twinkling lights hopping on to the very windowsill, on dark nights. but in spite of the loneliness, she lived on fromyear to year in the little house, perhaps because she was never asked topay any rent for it.But she did not care to sit up late, when the fire burnt low, and no oneknew what might be about. so, when they had had their supper she wouldmake up a good fire and go off to bed, so that if anything terribledid happen, she could always hide her head under the bedclothes.This, however, was far too early to please her little son. so when shecalled him to bed, he would go on playing beside the fire, as if he didnot hear her.He had always been bad to do with since the day he was born, and hismother did not often care to cross him. indeed, the more she tried to makehim obey her, the less heed he paid to anything she said, so it usuallyended by his taking his own way.But one night, just at the fore end of winter, the widow could not make upher mind to go off to bed, and leave him playing by the fireside. for thewind was tugging at the door, and rattling the windowpanes, and well sheknew that on such a night, fairies and such like were bound to be out andabout, and bent on mischief. So she tried to coax the boy into going atonce to bed."The safest bed to bide in, such a night as this!" she said. but no, hewouldn't.Then she threatened to "give him the stick," but it was no use.The more she begged and scolded, the more he shook his head. and when atlast she lost patience and cried that the fairies would surely come andfetch him away, he only laughed and said he wished they would , forhe would like one to play with.At that his mother burst into tears, and went off to bed in despair,certain that after such words something dreadful would happen, while hernaughty little son sat on his stool by the fire, not at all put out by hercrying.But he had not long been sitting there alone, when he heard a flutteringsound near him in the chimney, and presently down by his side dropped thetiniest wee girl you could think of. she was not a span high, and had hairlike spun silver, eyes as green as grass, and cheeks red as June roses.The little boy looked at her with surprise."Oh!" said he. "what do they call ye?""My own self," she said in a shrill but sweet little voice, and she lookedat him too. "And what do they call ye?""Just my own self too?" he answered cautiously. and with that they beganto play together.She certainly showed him some fine games. She made animals out of theashes that looked and moved like life. and trees with green leaves wavingover tiny houses, with men and women an inch high in them, who, when shebreathed on them, fell to walking and talking quite properly.But the fire was getting low, and the light dim, and presently the littleboy stirred the coals with a stick, to make them blaze. when out jumped ared hot cinder, and where should it fall, but on the fairy child's tinyfoot.Thereupon she set up such a squeal, that the boy dropped the stick, andclapped his hands to his ears. but it grew to so shrill a screech, that itwas like all the wind in the world, whistling through one tiny keyhole.There was a sound in the chimney again, but this time the little boy didnot wait to see what it was, but bolted off to bed, where he hid under theblankets and listened in fear and trembling to what went on.A voice came from the chimney speaking sharply. "Who's there, and what'swrong?" it said."It's my own self," sobbed the fairy child. "and my foot's burnt sore.O o h!""Who did it?" said the voice angrily. this time it sounded nearer, and theboy, peeping from under the clothes, could see a white face looking outfrom the chimney opening."Just my own self too!" said the fairy child again."Then if ye did it your own self," cried the elf mother shrilly, "what'sthe use o' making all this fash about it?" And with that she stretched outa long thin arm, and caught the creature by its ear, and, shaking itroughly, pulled it after her, out of sight up the chimney.The little boy lay awake a long time, listening, in case the fairy mothershould come back after all. and next evening after supper, his mother wassurprised to find that he was willing to go to bed whenever she liked."He's taking a turn for the better at last!" she said to herself. but hewas thinking just then that, when next a fairy came to play with him, hemight not get off quite so easily as he had done this time.