A man and a woman lived in a run down cottage. Every day the man went out and worked in the field while the woman stayed at home and cooked.One day after breakfast the man said to the woman: "You have it very easy with your little bit of cooking, while I have to work myself to the bone in the field.""Do you want to trade?" asked the woman. "If so, I'll go out to the field and you can stay and home and cook.""I'd be happy with that," said the man.So they traded roles: The woman took the hoe over her shoulder and went out to the field while the man, wooden spoon in hand, stayed at home. His first question was, what should he cook? Then it occurred to him that whoever has the cross should bless himself with it: "I'll cook my favorite dish, rice porridge."He brought in kindling and wood and made a fire, and then he heard the cow bellowing."Just bellow away," said the man. "First I have to fetch water or else the fire will burn away for nothing at all."He took the bucket and went to the well to fetch water, which he poured into the pot and set on onto the fire. Then the cow bellowed again."Just bellow away," he said. "It's not your turn yet. First I must put the rice into the pot so it will soften.He ran and fetched the rice, shook it into the pot and stirred it with the spoon. Then the cow bellowed a third time."Yes," said the man, "now it's your turn."He went to the stall only to discover that there was no fodder there for her."Curses!" he thought. "If have to get fodder for her now the water will get hot, and the rice will boil over and spoil my favorite dish."So he led the cow to the hill behind the cottage, and then onto his thatched roof that was covered with moss, saying: "You can graze here."Back in the kitchen he poured off the boiling water and poured fresh water onto the rice.Then he thought: "If the cow falls off the roof she could break her neck and a leg. That would not do."So he ran out onto the roof and tied a rope around the cow's neck and dropped the rope's other end down the chimney into the kitchen. Back in the kitchen he tied the rope onto his leg, thinking: "Now I can tend to the rice porridge in peace."Soon he poured the boiling water off the rice, replaced it with milk, then put it back onto the fire, stirring it vigorously with the wooden spoon so that it would not burn.Meanwhile the cow was grazing on the roof's narrow peak, carefully setting one foot in front of another like a tight rope walker, until she came to the edge of the house. She stretched he neck to one side to reach a few green bites, then lost her balance and fell. The short rope left her hanging there above the ground. She was heavy enough to pull up the man tied to the other end of the rope. And there he hung in the chimney, between heaven and earth just above the rice porridge.When the woman returned home she saw the cow hanging there, its tongue sticking out of its throat. Fortunately she had her cheese knife in her pocket. She opened it, and holding the rope with her right hand she cut it in two with her left hand, then gently lowered the cow to the ground.She ran into the kitchen to scold the man. She found him stuck upside down with his head the porridge pot. The woman had to get him back onto his feet. But she couldn't scold him yet, for his eyes and ears were full of porridge.So she washed his head and was about to begin her scolding sermon, when he said: "Be quiet. You've already washed my head. In the future you'll stay at home and I'll work in the field."It is not right to undo nature's order.