Once upon a time there was a soldier who had served through threecampaigns, but had never earned as much as an addled egg, and was then puton the retired list. Then, as he went on the road marching on and on, hebecame tired and sat down by a lake. And, as he rested, he began thinkingthings out, "Where shall I now betake myself, and how shall I feed myself,and how the devil shall I enter into any service?"As soon as he had spoken these words a little devil rose up at once infront of him and said, "Hail, soldier, what do you wish? Did you just nownot say that you wished to become one of our servants? Why, soldier, comeup and be hired. we will pay you well.""What is the work?""Oh, the work is easy enough: for fifteen years you must not shave, youmust not have your hair cut, you must not blow your nose, and you must notchange your garb. If you serve this service, then we will go to the king,who has three daughters. Two of them are mine, but the third shall beyours.""Very well," said the soldier, "I will undertake the contract. but Irequire in return to get anything my soul hankers after.""It shall be so. be at peace. we shall not be in default.""Well, let it befall at once. Carry me at once into the capital and giveme a pile of money. you know yourself how little of these goods a soldierever gets."So the little devil dashed into the lake, got out a pile of gold, andinstantaneously carried the soldier into the great city, and all at oncehe was there!"What a fool I have been!" said the soldier. "I have not done any service,no work, and I now have the money!" So he took a room, never cut his hair,never shaved, never wiped his nose, never changed his garb, and he livedon and grew wealthy, so wealthy he did not know what to do with his money.What was he to do with his silver and gold? "Oh, very well, I will starthelping the poor. possibly they may pray for my soul." So the soldierbegan distributing alms to the needy, to the right and to the left, and hestill had money over, however much he gave away! His fame spread over thewhole kingdom, came to the ears of all.So the soldier lived for fourteen years, and on the fifteenth year thetsar's exchequer gave out. So he summoned the soldier. So the soldier cameto him unwashed, unshaved, uncombed, with his nose unwiped and his dressunchanged."Health, your majesty!""Listen, soldier. You, they say, are good to all folks. will you lend mesome money? I have not enough to pay my troops. If you will I will makeyou a general at once.""No, your Majesty, I do not wish to be a general. but if you will do me afavor, give me one of your daughters as my wife, and you shall have asmuch money as you wish for the Treasury."So the king began to think. He was very fond of his daughters, but stillhe could not do anything whatsoever without money. "Well," he said, "Iagree. Have a portrait taken of yourself. I will show it to my daughtersand ask which of them will take you."So the soldier returned, had the portrait painted, which was feature forfeature, unshaved, unwashed, uncombed, his nose unwiped, and in his oldgarb, and sent it to the tsar.Now, the tsar had three daughters, and the father summoned them and showedthem the soldier's portrait. He said to the eldest, "Will you go and marryhim? He will redeem me from very great embarrassment."The tsarevna saw what a monstrous animal had been painted, with tangledhair, uncut nails and unwiped nose. "I certainly won't!" she said, " Iwould sooner go to the devil." And from somewhere or other the devilappeared, stood behind her with pen and paper, heard what she said, andentered her soul on his register.Then the father asked the next daughter, "Will you go and marry thesoldier? ""What! I would rather remain a maiden. I would rather tie myself up withthe devil than go with him." So the devil went and inscribed her soul aswell.Then the father asked his youngest daughter, and she answered, "Evidentlythis must be my lot. I will go and marry him and see what God shall give."Then the tsar was very blithe at this, and he went and told the soldier tomake ready for the betrothal, and he sent him twelve carts to carry themoney away.Then the soldier made use of his devil. "There are twelve carts. pile themall high at once with gold." So the devil ran into the lake and the unholyones set to work. Some of them brought up one sack, some two, and theysoon filled the carts and sent them to the tsar, into his palace.Then the tsar looked, and now summoned the soldier to him every day, satwith him at one table, and ate and drank with him. When they got ready forthe marriage the term of fifteen years was over.So he called the little devil and said, "Now my service is over. Turn meinto a youth."So the devil cut him up into little bits, threw them into a cauldron, andbegan to brew him   brewed him, washed him and collected all his bones,one by one, in the proper way, every bone with every bone, every jointwith every joint, every nerve with every nerve. Then he sprinkled themwith the water of life, and the soldier arose, such a fine young man as notale can tell and no pen can write. He then married the youngest tsarevna,and they began to live a merry life of good.I was at the wedding. I drank mead and beer. They also had wine, and Idrank it to the very dregs.But the little devil ran back into the lake, for his elder hauled him overthe coals to answer for what he had done with the soldier. "He has servedout his period faithfully and honorably: he has never once shaved himself,nor cut his hair, nor wiped his nose, nor changed his clothes."Then the elder was very angry. He said, "In fifteen years you were notable to corrupt the soldier! Was all the money given in vain? What sort ofa devil will you be after this?" And he had him thrown into the burningpitch."Oh no, please, grandfather," said the grandson, " I have lost thesoldier's soul, but I have gained two others."" What?""Look: the soldier thought of marrying a tsarevna. the two elder daughtersboth declined and said they would rather marry a devil than the soldier.So there they are, and they belong to us."So the grandfather devil approved what the grandson imp had done, and sethim free. "Yes," he said, "you know your business very well indeed."