On one of the great moors over in Jutland, where trees won't growbecause the soil is so sandy and the wind so strong, there once liveda man and his wife, who had a little house and some sheep, and two sonswho helped them to herd them. The elder of the two was called Rasmus,and the younger Niels. Rasmus was quite content to look after sheep, ashis father had done before him, but Niels had a fancy to be a hunter,and was not happy till he got hold of a gun and learned to shoot. It wasonly an old muzzle loading flint lock after all, but Niels thought it agreat prize, and went about shooting at everything he could see. So muchdid he practice that in the long run he became a wonderful shot, and washeard of even where he had never been seen. Some people said there wasvery little in him beyond this, but that was an idea they found reasonto change in the course of time.The parents of Rasmus and Niels were good Catholics, and when they weregetting old the mother took it into her head that she would like to goto Rome and see the Pope. The others didn't see much use in this, butshe had her way in the end: they sold all the sheep, shut up the house,and set out for Rome on foot. Niels took his gun with him.'What do you want with that?' said Rasmus. 'we have plenty to carrywithout it.' But Niels could not be happy without his gun, and took itall the same.It was in the hottest part of summer that they began their journey, sohot that they could not travel at all in the middle of the day, and theywere afraid to do it by night lest they might lose their way or fallinto the hands of robbers. One day, a little before sunset, they came toan inn which lay at the edge of a forest.'We had better stay here for the night,' said Rasmus.'What an idea!' said Niels, who was growing impatient at the slowprogress they were making. 'We can't travel by day for the heat, and weremain where we are all night. It will be long enough before we get toRome if we go on at this rate.'Rasmus was unwilling to go on, but the two old people sided with Niels,who said, 'The nights aren't dark, and the moon will soon be up. We canask at the inn here, and find out which way we ought to take.'So they held on for some time, but at last they came to a small openingin the forest, and here they found that the road split in two. There wasno sign post to direct them, and the people in the inn had not told themwhich of the two roads to take.'What's to be done now?' said Rasmus. 'I think we had better have stayedat the inn.''There's no harm done,' said Niels. 'The night is warm, and we can waithere till morning. One of us will keep watch till midnight, and thenwaken the other.'Rasmus chose to take the first watch, and the others lay down to sleep.It was very quiet in the forest, and Rasmus could hear the deer andfoxes and other animals moving about among the rustling leaves. Afterthe moon rose he could see them occasionally, and when a big stag camequite close to him he got hold of Niels' gun and shot it.Niels was wakened by the report. 'What's that?' he said.'I've just shot a stag,' said Rasmus, highly pleased with himself.'That's nothing,' said Niels. 'I've often shot a sparrow, which is amuch more difficult thing to do.'It was now close on midnight, so Niels began his watch, and Rasmus wentto sleep. It began to get colder, and Niels began to walk about a littleto keep himself warm. He soon found that they were not far from the edgeof the forest, and when he climbed up one of the trees there he couldsee out over the open country beyond. At a little distance he saw afire, and beside it there sat three giants, busy with broth and beef.They were so huge that the spoons they used were as large as spades, andtheir forks as big as hay forks: with these they lifted whole bucketfulsof broth and great joints of meat out of an enormous pot which was seton the ground between them. Niels was startled and rather scared atfirst, but he comforted himself with the thought that the giants werea good way off, and that if they came nearer he could easily hide amongthe bushes. After watching them for a little, however, he began to getover his alarm, and finally slid down the tree again, resolved to gethis gun and play some tricks with them.When he had climbed back to his former position, he took good aim, andwaited till one of the giants was just in the act of putting a largepiece of meat into his mouth. Bang! went Niels' gun, and the bulletstruck the handle of the fork so hard that the point went into thegiant's chin, instead of his mouth.'None of your tricks,' growled the giant to the one who sat next him.'What do you mean by hitting my fork like that, and making me prickmyself?''I never touched your fork,' said the other. 'Don't try to get up aquarrel with me.''Look at it, then,' said the first. 'Do you suppose I stuck it into myown chin for fun?'The two got so angry over the matter that each offered to fight theother there and then, but the third giant acted as peace maker, and theyagain fell to their eating.While the quarrel was going on, Niels had loaded the gun again, andjust as the second giant was about to put a nice tit bit into his mouth,bang! went the gun again, and the fork flew into a dozen pieces.This giant was even more furious than the first had been, and words werejust coming to blows, when the third giant again interposed.'Don't be fools,' he said to them. 'what's the good of beginning tofight among ourselves, when it is so necessary for the three of us towork together and get the upper hand over the king of this country. Itwill be a hard enough task as it is, but it will be altogether hopelessif we don't stick together. Sit down again, and let us finish our meal.I shall sit between you, and then neither of you can blame the other.'Niels was too far away to hear their talk, but from their gestures hecould guess what was happening, and thought it good fun.'Thrice is lucky,' said he to himself. 'I'll have another shot yet.'This time it was the third giant's fork that caught the bullet, andsnapped in two.'Well,' said he, 'if I were as foolish as you two, I would also fly intoa rage, but I begin to see what time of day it is, and I'm going offthis minute to see who it is that's playing these tricks with us.'So well had the giant made his observations, that though Niels climbeddown the tree as fast as he could, so as to hide among the bushes, hehad just got to the ground when the enemy was upon him.'Stay where you are,' said the giant, 'or I'll put my foot on you, andthere won't be much of you left after that.'Niels gave in, and the giant carried him back to his comrades.'You don't deserve any mercy at our hands,' said his captor 'but as youare such a good shot you may be of great use to us, so we shall spareyour life, if you will do us a service. Not far from here there stands acastle, in which the king's daughter lives. we are at war with the king,and want to get the upper hand of him by carrying off the princess, butthe castle is so well guarded that there is no getting into it. By ourskill in magic we have cast sleep on every living thing in the castle,except a little black dog, and, as long as he is awake, we are no betteroff than before. for, as soon as we begin to climb over the wall, thelittle dog will hear us, and its barking will waken all the othersagain. Having got you, we can place you where you will be able to shootthe dog before it begins to bark, and then no one can hinder us fromgetting the princess into our hands. If you do that, we shall not onlylet you off, but reward you handsomely.'Niels had to consent, and the giants set out for the castle at once.It was surrounded by a very high rampart, so high that even the giantscould not touch the top of it. 'How am I to get over that?' said Niels.'Quite easily,' said the third giant. 'I'll throw you up on it.''No, thanks,' said Niels. 'I might fall down on the other side, or breakmy leg or neck, and then the little dog wouldn't get shot after all.''No fear of that,' said the giant. 'the rampart is quite wide on thetop, and covered with long grass, so that you will come down as softlyas though you fell on a feather bed.'Niels had to believe him, and allowed the giant to throw him up. He camedown on his feet quite unhurt, but the little black dog heard the dump,and rushed out of its kennel at once. It was just opening its mouth tobark, when Niels fired, and it fell dead on the spot.'Go down on the inside now,' said the giant, 'and see if you can openthe gate to us.'Niels made his way down into the courtyard, but on his way to the outergate he found himself at the entrance to the large hall of the castle.The door was open, and the hall was brilliantly lighted, though therewas no one to be seen. Niels went in here and looked round him: on thewall there hung a huge sword without a sheath, and beneath it was alarge drinking horn, mounted with silver. Niels went closer to look atthese, and saw that the horn had letters engraved on the silver rim:when he took it down and turned it round, he found that the inscriptionwas: Whoever drinks the wine I holdCan wield the sword that hangs above.Then let him use it for the right,And win a royal maiden's love.Niels took out the silver stopper of the horn, and drank some of thewine, but when he tried to take down the sword he found himself unableto move it. So he hung up the horn again, and went further in to thecastle. 'The giants can wait a little,' he said.Before long he came to an apartment in which a beautiful princess layasleep in a bed, and on a table by her side there lay a gold hemmedhandkerchief. Niels tore this in two, and put one half in his pocket,leaving the other half on the table. On the floor he saw a pair ofgold embroidered slippers, and one of these he also put in his pocket.After that he went back to the hall, and took down the horn again.'Perhaps I have to drink all that is in it before I can move the sword,'he thought. so he put it to his lips again and drank till it was quiteempty. When he had done this, he could wield the sword with the greatestof ease, and felt himself strong enough to do anything, even to fightthe giants he had left outside, who were no doubt wondering why he hadnot opened the gate to them before this time. To kill the giants, hethought, would be using the sword for the right. but as to winningthe love of the princess, that was a thing which the son of a poorsheep farmer need not hope for.When Niels came to the gate of the castle, he found that there was alarge door and a small one, so he opened the latter.'Can't you open the big door?' said the giants. 'we shall hardly be ableto get in at this one.''The bars are too heavy for me to draw,' said Niels. 'if you stoop alittle you can quite well come in here.' The first giant accordinglybent down and entered in a stooping posture, but before he had time tostraighten his back again Niels made a sweep with the sword, and oftwent the giant's head. To push the body aside as it fell was quite easyfor Niels, so strong had the wine made him, and the second giant as heentered met the same reception. The third was slower in coming, so Nielscalled out to him: 'Be quick,' he said, 'you are surely the oldest ofthe three, since you are so slow in your movements, but I can't waithere long. I must get back to my own people as soon as possible.' So thethird also came in, and was served in the same way. It appears from thestory that giants were not given fair play!By this time day was beginning to break, and Niels thought that hisfolks might already be searching for him, so, instead of waiting to seewhat took place at the castle, he ran off to the forest as fast as hecould, taking the sword with him. He found the others still asleep, sohe woke them up, and they again set out on their journey. Of the night'sadventures he said not a word, and when they asked where he got thesword, he only pointed in the direction of the castle, and said, 'Overthat way.' They thought he had found it, and asked no more questions.When Niels left the castle, he shut the door behind him, and it closedwith such a bang that the porter woke up. He could scarcely believehis eyes when he saw the three headless giants lying in a heap in thecourtyard, and could not imagine what had taken place. The whole castlewas soon aroused, and then everybody wondered at the affair: it was soonseen that the bodies were those of the king's great enemies, but howthey came to be there and in that condition was a perfect mystery. Thenit was noticed that the drinking horn was empty and the sword gone,while the princess reported that half of her handkerchief and one of herslippers had been taken away. How the giants had been killed seemed alittle clearer now, but who had done it was as great a puzzle as before.The old knight who had charge of the castle said that in his opinionit must have been some young knight, who had immediately set off to theking to claim the hand of the princess. This sounded likely, but themessenger who was sent to the Court returned with the news that no onethere knew anything about the matter.'We must find him, however,' said the princess. 'for if he is willing tomarry me I cannot in honour refuse him, after what my father put on thehorn.' She took council with her father's wisest men as to what ought tobe done, and among other things they advised her to build a house besidethe highway, and put over the door this inscription: 'Whoever will tellthe story of his life, may stay here three nights for nothing.' This wasdone, and many strange tales were told to the princess, but none of thetravellers said a word about the three giants.In the meantime Niels and the others tramped on towards Rome. Autumnpassed, and winter was just beginning when they came to the foot ofa great range of mountains, towering up to the sky. 'Must we go overthese?' said they. 'We shall be frozen to death or buried in the snow.''Here comes a man,' said Niels. 'let us ask him the way to Rome.' Theydid so, and were told that there was no other way.'And is it far yet?' said the old people, who were beginning to be wornout by the long journey. The man held up his foot so that they could seethe sole of his shoe. it was worn as thin as paper, and there was a holein the middle of it.'These shoes were quite new when I left Rome,' he said, 'and look atthem now. that will tell you whether you are far from it or not.'This discouraged the old people so much that they gave up all thought offinishing the journey, and only wished to get back to Denmark as quicklyas they could. What with the winter and bad roads they took longer toreturn than they had taken to go, but in the end they found themselvesin sight of the forest where they had slept before.'What's this?' said Rasmus. 'Here's a big house built since we passedthis way before.''So it is,' said Peter. 'let's stay all night in it.''No, we can't afford that,' said the old people. 'it will be too dearfor the like of us.'However, when they saw what was written above the door, they wereall well pleased to get a night's lodging for nothing. They were wellreceived, and had so much attention given to them, that the old peoplewere quite put out by it. After they had got time to rest themselves,the princess's steward came to hear their story.'You saw what was written above the door,' he said to the father. 'Tellme who you are and what your history has been.''Dear me, I have nothing of any importance to tell you,' said the oldman, 'and I am sure we should never have made so bold as to trouble youat all if it hadn't been for the youngest of our two sons here.''Never mind that,' said the steward. 'you are very welcome if you willonly tell me the story of your life.''Well, well, I will,' said he, 'but there is nothing to tell about it.I and my wife have lived all our days on a moor in North Jutland, untilthis last year, when she took a fancy to go to Rome. We set out with ourtwo sons but turned back long before we got there, and are now on ourway home again. That's all my own story, and our two sons have livedwith us all their days, so there is nothing more to be told about themeither.''Yes there is,' said Rasmus. 'when we were on our way south, we slept inthe wood near here one night, and I shot a stag.'The steward was so much accustomed to hearing stories of no importancethat he thought there was no use going further with this, but reportedto the princess that the newcomers had nothing to tell.'Did you question them all?' she said.'Well, no. not directly,' said he. 'but the father said that none ofthem could tell me any more than he had done.''You are getting careless,' said the princess. 'I shall go and talk tothem myself.'Niels knew the princess again as soon as she entered the room, and wasgreatly alarmed, for he immediately supposed that all this was a deviceto discover the person who had run away with the sword, the slipper andthe half of the handkerchief, and that it would fare badly with him ifhe were discovered. So he told his story much the same as the others did(Niels was not very particular), and thought he had escaped all furthertrouble, when Rasmus put in his word. 'You've forgotten something,Niels,' he said. 'you remember you found a sword near here that night Ishot the stag.''Where is the sword?' said the princess.'I know,' said the steward, 'I saw where he laid it down when they camein.' and off he went to fetch it, while Niels wondered whether hecould make his escape in the meantime. Before he had made up hismind, however, the steward was back with the sword, which the princessrecognised at once.'Where did you get this?' she said to Niels.Niels was silent, and wondered what the usual penalty was for a poorsheep farmer's son who was so unfortunate as to deliver a princess andcarry off things from her bed room.'See what else he has about him,' said the princess to the steward,and Niels had to submit to be searched: out of one pocket came agold embroidered slipper, and out of another the half of a gold hemmedhandkerchief.'That is enough,' said the princess. 'now we needn't ask any morequestions. Send for my father the king at once.''Please let me go,' said Niels. 'I did you as much good as harm, at anyrate.''Why, who said anything about doing harm?' said the princess. 'You muststay here till my father comes.'The way in which the princess smiled when she said this gave Niels somehope that things might not be bad for him after all, and he was yet moreencouraged when he thought of the words engraver on the horn, though thelast line still seemed too good to be true. However, the arrival of theking soon settled the matter: the princess was willing and so was Niels,and in a few days the wedding bells were ringing. Niels was made an earlby that time, and looked as handsome as any of them when dressed in allhis robes. Before long the old king died, and Niels reigned after him.but whether his father and mother stayed with him, or went back tothe moor in Jutland, or were sent to Rome in a carriage and four,is something that all the historians of his reign have forgotten tomention.