 1. The words "in a garden" are omitted in my original. but they arerequired by the sequel. I may here remark, that, in future, when I findtrifling insertions of this kind to be requisite in my translation, Ishall not deem it necessary to mention them in a note. 2. An Eastern traveller often makes a long journey with no otherencumbrance than a well filled pair of saddle bags: in one bag he putshis provisions. and in the other, such articles of clothing as he mayrequire in addition to those in which he sets out, including a spareshirt, and perhaps no other clean linen: for he is as indifferent withregard to this comfort as he is careful respecting his _personal_cleanliness. 3. Perhaps no reader of this work will require to be told that thedate has not a _shell_. I only make this remark on account of an errorin the old translation. As dates are very nutritious, and are preservedby being merely dried in the sun, they are an excellent article ofprovision for travellers. 4. The merchant was culpably careless: before throwing aside thedate stone with sufficient force to kill a Jinnee who happened to benear him (though at the time invisible), he should have asked permissionby the exclamation "Destoor!" as explained in a note appended to theIntroduction. 5. _On Fate and Destiny._ The belief in fate and destiny ("el aawa l adar") exercises a most powerful influence upon the actions andcharacter of the Muslims. and it is therefore highly important that thereader of the present work should be acquainted with the notions whichthese people entertain respecting such matters of faith. I use two words(perhaps the best that our language affords) to express correspondingArabic terms, which some persons regard as synonymous, but othersdistinguish by different shades of meaning. On what I consider the bestauthority, the word which I render "fate" respects the decrees of God ina general sense. while that which I translate "destiny" relates to theparticular applications of those decrees. In such senses these terms arehere to be understood when separately employed.Many Muslims hold that fate is, in some respects, absolute andunchangeable. in others, admitting of alteration. and almost all of them_act_, in many of the affairs of life, as if this were their belief. Inthe former case, it is called "el aa el Mokam:" in the latter,"el aa el Mubram" (which term, without the explanation here given,might be regarded as exactly synonymous with the former). Hence, theProphet, it is said, prayed to be preserved from the latter, as knowingthat it might be changed. and in allusion to this changeable fate, God,we are told, says, "God will cancel what He pleaseth, and confirm."while, on the contrary, the fate which is termed "Mokam" is appointed"destiny" decreed by God.Many doctors have argued, that destiny respects only the _final state_of a certain portion of men (believers and unbelievers). and that, ingeneral, man is endowed with free will, which he should exerciseaccording to the laws of God and his own conscience and judgment,praying to God for a blessing on his endeavours, or imploring theintercession of the Prophet, or of any of the saints, in his favour, andpropitiating them by offering alms or sacrifices in their names. relyingupon God for the result, which he may then, and then only, attribute tofate or destiny. They hold, therefore, that it is criminal to attemptresistance to the will when its dictates are conformable with the lawsof God and our natural consciences and prudence, and so passively toawait the fulfilment of God's decrees. The doctrine of the ur an andthe Traditions respecting the decrees of God, or fate and destiny,appears, however, to be, that they are altogether absolute andunchangeable, written, in the beginning of the creation, on the"Preserved Tablet," in heaven. that God hath predestined every event andaction, evil as well as good. at the same time commanding and approvinggood, and forbidding and hating evil. and that the "cancelling"mentioned in the preceding paragraph relates (as the context seems toshew) to the abrogation of former scriptures, or revelations. not offate. But still it must be held that He hath not predestined the _will_.though He sometimes inclines it to good, and the Devil sometimesinclines it to evil. It is asked, then, If we have the power to will,but not the power to perform otherwise than as God hath predetermined,how can we be regarded as responsible beings? The answer to this is,that our actions are judged good or evil according to our intentions, ifwe have faith: good actions or intentions, it should be added, onlyincrease, and do not cause, our happiness, if we are believers. and evilactions or intentions only increase our misery if we are unbelievers orirreligious: for the Muslim holds that he is to be admitted into heavenonly by the mercy of God, on account of his faith. and to be rewarded inproportion to his good works.The Prophet's assertions on the subject of God's decrees are consideredof the highest importance as explanatory of the ur an. "Whatever is inthe universe," said he, "is by the order of God." "God hathpre ordained five things on his servants. the duration of life, theiractions, their dwelling places, their travels, and theirportions." "There is not one among you whose sitting place is notwritten by God, whether in the fire or in paradise." Some of theCompanions of the Prophet, on hearing the last quoted saying, asked him,"O Prophet, since God hath appointed our places, may we confide in this,and abandon our religious and moral duties?" He answered, "No: becausethe happy will do good works, and those who are of the miserable will dobad works." The following of his sayings further illustrate thissubject. "When God hath ordered a creature to die in any particularplace, He causeth his wants to direct him to that place." A Companionasked, "O Prophet of God, inform me respecting charms, and the medicineswhich I swallow, and shields which I make use of for protection, whetherthey prevent any of the orders of God." Moammad answered, "These alsoare by the order of God." "There is a medicine for every pain:then, when the medicine reaches the pain, it is cured by the order ofGod." When a Muslim, therefore, feels an inclination to make useof medicine for the cure of a disease, he should do so, in the hope ofits being predestined that he shall be so cured.On the predestination of diseases, I find the following curiousquotation and remark in a manuscript work, by Es Suyooee, in mypossession. "El aleemee says, 'Communicable or contagious diseases aresix: small pox, measles, itch or scab, foul breath or putridity,melancholy, and pestilential maladies. and diseases engendered are alsosix: leprosy, hectic, epilepsy, gout, elephantiasis, and phthisis.' Butthis does not contradict the saying of the Prophet, 'There is notransition of diseases by contagion or infection, nor any omen thatbrings evil:' for the transition here meant is one occasioned by thedisease itself. whereas the effect is of God, who causes pestilence tospread when there is intercourse with the diseased." A Bedaweeasked the Prophet, "What is the condition of camels which stay in thedeserts? verily, you might say, they are deer, in health and incleanness of skin. then they mix with mangy camels, and they becomemangy also." Moammad said, "What made the first camel mangy?"Notwithstanding, however, the arguments which have been here adduced,and many others that might be added, declaring or implying theunchangeable nature of all God's decrees, I have found it to be theopinion of my own Muslim friends, that God may be induced, bysupplication, to change certain of his decrees. at least, thoseregarding degrees of happiness or misery in this world and the next. andthat such is the general opinion, appears from a form of prayer which isrepeated in the mosques on the eve of the middle (or fifteenth day) ofthe month of Shaaban. when it is believed that such portions of God'sdecrees as constitute the destinies of all living creatures for theensuing year, are confirmed and fixed. In this prayer it is said, "OGod, if Thou _hast recorded_ me in thine abode, upon 'the Original ofthe Book' , miserable, or unfortunate, or scantedin my sustenance, _cancel_, O God, of thy goodness, my misery, andmisfortune, and scanty allowance of sustenance, and confirm me, in thineabode, upon the Original of the Book, as happy, and provided for, anddirected to good,"  c.The Arabs in general constantly have recourse both to charms andmedicines, not only for the cure, but also for the prevention ofdiseases. They have, indeed, a strange passion for medicine, which showsthat they do not consider fate as altogether unconditional. Nothing canexceed the earnestness with which they often press a European travellerfor a dose. and the more violent the remedy, the better are theypleased. The following case will serve as an example: Threedonkey drivers, conveying the luggage of two British travellers fromBoola to Cairo, opened a bottle which they observed in a basket, andfinding it to contain, as they had suspected, brandy, emptied it downtheir throats: but he who had the last, on turning up the bottle, gotthe tail of a scorpion into his mouth. and, looking through the bottle,to his great horror, saw that it contained a number of these reptiles,with tarantulas, vipers, and beetles. Thinking that they had poisonedthemselves, but not liking to rely upon fate, they persuaded a man tocome to me for medicine. He introduced the subject by saying, "OEfendee, do an act of kindness: there are three men poisoned. in yourmercy give them medicine, and save their lives:" and then he related thewhole affair, without concealing the theft. I replied, that they did notdeserve medicine. but he urged that, by giving it, I should obtain animmense reward. "Yes," said I. "'he who saveth a soul alive shall be asif he had saved the lives of all mankind.'" I said this to try thefeeling of the applicant, who, expressing admiration of my knowledge,urged me to be quick, lest the men should die. thus showing himself tobe no unconditional fatalist. I gave him three strong doses of tartaremetic. and he soon came back to thank me, saying that the medicine wasmost admirable, for the men had hardly swallowed it, when they almostvomited their hearts and livers, and everything else in their bodies.From a distrust in faith, some Muslims even shut themselves up duringthe prevalence of plague. but this practice is generally condemned. ASyrian friend of mine, who did so, nearly had his door broken open byhis neighbours. Another of my friends, one of the most distinguished ofthe 'Ulama, confessed to me his conviction of the lawfulness ofquarantine, and argued well in favour of it. but said that he dared notopenly avow such an opinion. "The Apostle of God," said he, "God blessand save him! hath commanded that we should not enter a city where thereis pestilence, nor go out from it. Why did he say, 'Enter itnot?' because, by so doing, we should expose ourselves to the disease.Why did he say, 'Go not out from it?' because, by so doing, we shouldcarry the disease to others. The Prophet was tenderly considerate of ourwelfare: but the present Muslims in general are like bulls (brutebeasts). and they hold the meaning of this command to be, Go not into acity where there is pestilence, because this would be rashness. and gonot out from it, because this would be distrusting God's power to saveyou from it."Many of the vulgar and ignorant among modern Muslims, believe that theunchangeable destinies of every man are written upon his head, in whatare termed the sutures of the skull. 6. The paragraph thus commencing, and the verses comprised in it,are translated from the Calcutta edition of the first two hundrednights. 7. It is a common custom for a Muslim, on a military expedition, orduring a long journey, especially in the desert, to carry hisgrave linen with him. for he is extremely careful that he may be buriedaccording to the law. It seems to be implied in our tale, that themerchant hoped that the Jinnee, or some passing traveller, would wash,shroud, and bury him. 8. It is thus that the Arab women generally do on the occasion of afuneral. 9. _On the title of_ Sheykh. "Sheykh" is an appellation whichliterally signifies "an elder," or "an aged person," and in this senseit is here used. but it is also commonly employed as synonymous with ourappellation of "Mister." and particularly applied to a learned man, or areputed saint. In every case, it is a title of respect, and never givento any but a Muslim. 10. "Jann" is here used as synonymous with "Jinn." 11. A cousin (the daughter of a paternal uncle) is often chosen asa wife, on account of the tie of blood, which is likely to attach hermore strongly to her husband. or on account of an affection conceived inearly years. The various customs relating to marriage, I shall describeon a future occasion. 12. A bride is called young, by the Arabs, when she is about twelveyears of age. In the Calcutta edition of the first two hundred nights,the wife in this tale is said to have been of this age when she wasfirst married. 13. _On Slaves._ A slave, among Muslims, is either a person takencaptive in war, or carried off by force, and being at the time ofcapture an infidel. or the offspring of a female slave by another slave,or by any man who is not her owner, or by her owner, if he does notacknowledge himself to be the father: but the offspring of a male slaveby a free woman is free. A person who embraces the Mohammadan faithafter having been made a slave, does not by this act become free, unlesshe flees from a foreign infidel master to a Muslim country, and therebecomes a Mohammadan. A person cannot have as a slave one whom heacknowledges to be within the prohibited degrees of marriage. Theslaves of the Arabs are mostly from Abyssinia and the Negro countries: afew, mostly in the houses of wealthy individuals, are from Georgia andCircassia.Slaves have no civil liberty. but are entirely under the authority oftheir owners, whatever may be the religion, sex, or age, of the latter.and can possess no property, unless by the owner's permission. The owneris entire master, while he pleases, of the person and goods of hisslave. and of the offspring of his female slave, which, if begotten byhim or presumed to be so, he may recognise as his own legitimate child,or not: the child, if recognised by him, enjoys the same privileges asthe offspring of a free wife. and if not recognised by him, is hisslave. The master may even kill his own slave with impunity for anyoffence. and he incurs but a slight punishment (as imprisonment for aperiod at the discretion of the judge) if he kills him wantonly. He maygive away or sell his slaves, excepting in some cases which will bementioned. and may marry them to whom he will, but not separate themwhen married. A slave, however, according to most of the doctors, cannothave more than two wives at the same time. Unemancipated slaves, at thedeath of their master, become the property of his heirs. and when anemancipated slave dies, leaving no male descendants or collateralrelations, the former master is the heir. or, if he be dead, his heirsinherit the slave's property. As a slave enjoys less advantages than afree person, the law, in some cases, ordains that his punishment for anoffence shall be half of that to which the free is liable to the sameoffence, or even less than half: if it be a fine, or pecuniarycompensation, it must be paid by the owner, to the amount, if necessary,of the value of the slave, or the slave must be given in compensation.The owner, but not the part owner, may cohabit with any of his femaleslaves who is a Mohammadan, a Christian, or a Jewess, if he has notmarried her to another man. but not with two or more who are sisters, orwho are related to each other in any of the degrees which would preventtheir both being his wives at the same time if they were free: afterhaving so lived with one, he must entirely relinquish such intercoursewith her before he can do the same with another who is so related toher. He cannot have this intercourse with a pagan slave. A Christian orJew may have slaves, but not enjoy the privilege above mentioned withone who is a Mohammadan. The master must wait a certain period(generally from a month to three months) after the acquisition of afemale slave, before he can have such intercourse with her. If he findany fault in her within three days, he is usually allowed to return her.When a man, from being the husband, becomes the master, of a slave, themarriage is dissolved, and he cannot continue to live with her but asher master, enjoying, however, all a master's privileges. unless heemancipates her. in which case he may again take her as his wife withher consent. In like manner, when a woman, from being the wife, becomesthe possessor, of a slave, the marriage is dissolved, and cannot berenewed unless she emancipates him, and he consents to the re union.Complete and immediate emancipation is sometimes granted to a slavegratuitously, or for a future pecuniary compensation. It is conferred bymeans of a written document, or by a verbal declaration (expressed inthe words, "Thou art free," or some similar phrase) in the presence oftwo witnesses, or by returning the certificate of sale obtained from theformer owner. Future emancipation is sometimes covenanted to be grantedon the fulfilment of certain conditions. and more frequently, to beconferred on the occasion of the owner's death. In the latter case, theowner cannot sell the slave to whom he has made this promise: and, as hecannot alienate by will more than one third of the whole property thathe leaves, the law ordains that, if the value of the said slave exceedsthat portion, the slave must obtain and pay the additional sum. When afemale slave has borne a child to her master, and he acknowledges thechild to be his own, he cannot sell this slave, and she becomes free onhis death.Abyssinian and white female slaves are kept by many men of the middleand higher classes, and often instead of wives, as requiring lessexpense, and being more subservient. but they are generally indulgedwith the same luxuries as free ladies. their vanity is gratified bycostly dresses and ornaments, and they rank high above free servants. asdo also the male slaves. Those called Abyssinians appear to be a mixedrace between negroes and whites. and are from the territories of theGallas. They are mostly kidnapped and sold by their own countrymen. Thenegro female slaves, as few of them have considerable personalattractions (which is not the case with the Abyssinians, many of whomare very beautiful), are usually employed only in cooking, and othermenial offices. The female slaves of the higher classes are ofteninstructed in plain needlework and embroidery, and sometimes in musicand dancing. Formerly, many of them possessed sufficient literaryaccomplishments to quote largely from esteemed poems, or even to composeextemporary verses, which they would often accompany with the lute. Thecondition of many concubine slaves is happy. and that of many, quite thecontrary. These, and all other slaves of either sex, are generallytreated with kindness. but at first they are usually importuned, and notunfrequently used with much harshness, to induce them to embrace theMohammadan faith. which almost all of them do. Their services arecommonly light: the usual office of the male white slave, who is called"memlook," is that of a page, or a military guard. Eunuchs are employedas guardians of the women. but only in the houses of men of high rank,or of great wealth: on account of the important and confidential officewhich they fill, they are generally treated in public with especialconsideration. I used to remark, in Cairo, that few persons saluted mewith a more dignified and consequential air than these pitiable butself conceited beings. Most of them are Abyssinians or Negroes. Indeed,the slaves in general take too much advantage of the countenance oftheir masters, especially when they belong to men in power. The masteris bound to afford his slaves proper food and clothing, or to let themwork for their own support, or to sell, give away, or liberate them. Itis, however, considered disgraceful for him to sell a slave who has beenlong in his possession. and it seldom happens that a master emancipatesa female slave, without marrying her to some man able to support her, orotherwise providing for her.The Prophet strongly enjoined the duty of kindness to slaves. "Feed yourmemlooks," said he, "with food of that which ye eat, and clothe themwith such clothing as ye wear. and command them not to do that whichthey are unable." These precepts are generally attended to, eitherentirely or in a great degree. Some other sayings of the Prophet on thissubject well deserve to be mentioned. as the following: "He who beatshis slave without fault, or slaps him on the face, his atonement forthis is freeing him." "A man who behaves ill to his slave will notenter into paradise." "Whoever is the cause of separation betweenmother and child, by selling or giving, God will separate him from hisfriends on the day of resurrection." "When a slave wishes well to hismaster, and worships God well, for him are double rewards." It isrelated of 'Othman, "that he twisted the ear of a memlook belonging tohim, on account of disobedience, and afterwards, repenting of it,ordered him to twist _his_ ear in like manner: but he would not. 'Othmanurged him, and the memlook advanced, and began to wring it by little andlittle. He said to him, 'Wring it hard. for I cannot endure thepunishment of the day of judgment .' The memlookanswered, 'O my master, the day that thou fearest, I also fear.'" "Itis related also of Zeyn el 'Abideen, that he had a memlook who seized asheep, and broke its leg. and he said to him, 'Why didst thou this?' Heanswered, 'To provoke thee to anger.' 'And I,' said he, 'will provoke toanger him who taught thee. and he is Iblees: go, and be free, for thesake of God.'" Many similar anecdotes might be added. but thegeneral assertions of travellers in the East are more satisfactoryevidence in favour of the humane conduct of most Muslims to theirslaves.It sometimes happens, though rarely, that free girls are sold asslaves. A remarkable instance is related in the "Mir atez Zeman." Faimeh, surnamed Ghareeb, a slave of the KhaleefehEl Moataim, the son of Haroon, was a poetess, accomplished in singingand calligraphy, and extremely beautiful. Her mother was an orphan. andJaafar, the famous Wezeer of Haroon Er Rasheed, took her as his wife.but his father, Yaya, reproached him for marrying a woman whose fatherand mother were unknown, and he therefore removed her from his ownresidence to a neighbouring house, where he frequently visited her. andshe bore him a daughter, the above mentioned Ghareeb, and died. Jaafarcommitted her infant to the care of a Christian woman, to nurse. and, onthe overthrow of his family, this woman sold her young charge as aslave. El Emeen, the successor of Er Rasheed, bought her of a man namedSumbul, but never paid her price. and when he was killed, she returnedto her former master. but on the arrival of El Ma moon at Baghdad, shewas described to him, and he compelled Sumbul to sell her to him. ThisSumbul loved her so passionately, that he died of grief at her loss. Onthe death of El Ma moon, his successor, El Moataim, bought her for ahundred thousand dirhems, and emancipated her. The historian adds, thatshe composed several well known airs and verses. 14. An Arab who is married to his cousin generally calls her bythis appellation rather than that of wife, as the tie of blood is, tohim, in every respect, stronger than that of matrimony. 15. _On Magic._ The Arabs and other Mohammadans enjoy a remarkableadvantage over _us_ in the composition of works of fiction: in theinvention of incidents which _we_ should regard as absurd in theextreme, _they_ cannot be accused by their countrymen of exceeding thebounds of probability. A case similar to that here described was relatedto me as a fact, in Cairo. A person in that city, I was told, wassuddenly surprised by the disappearance of his brother, and by finding,in his place, an ass: but this animal increased his astonishment, andthat of every person who beheld him, by manifesting a sagacitysingularly opposed to the proverbial dulness of the generality of hisspecies. Yet, strange as it may seem, it was not imagined that thisbrute was the lost man in a transformed state, till, one day, an oldwoman, seeing him, quickly covered her face, and declared the fact. Shediscovered this by her knowledge of magic. and, by her skill in thisart, she agreed to restore the enchanted person to his proper shape.Having collected a number of herbs, she boiled them in a large vessel.and when the decoction had cooled, she took the vessel, and, muttering acertain spell, threw its contents over the animal, endeavouring to do soin such a manner that every part of it should be wetted. Every part ofit _was_ wetted, excepting one hind foot. and, accordingly, it wasrestored to the original human form, with the exception of one foot,which remained like that of an ass.An implicit belief in magic is entertained by almost all Muslims. andhe, among them, who denies its truth, they regard as a freethinker, oran infidel. Some are of opinion that it ceased on the mission ofMoammad. but these are comparatively few. Many of the most learnedMuslims, to the present age, have deeply studied it. and a much greaternumber of persons of inferior education (particularly school masters)have, more or less, devoted their time and talents to the pursuit ofthis knowledge. Recourse is had to it for the discovery of hiddentreasures, for alchymical purposes, for the acquisition of the knowledgeof futurity, to procure offspring, to obtain the affection of a belovedobject, to effect cures, to guard against the influence of the evil eye,to afflict or kill an enemy or a rival, and to attain various otherobjects of desire.There are two descriptions of magic. one is spiritual, and regarded byall but freethinkers as true. the other, natural, and denounced by themore religious and enlightened as deceptive.chiefly depends upon the virtues of certain names of God, and passagesfrom the ur an, and the agency of Angels and Jinn, or Genii. It is oftwo kinds: High and Low ("'Ilwee" and "Suflee"), or Divine and Satanic("Ramanee," _i. e._ relating to "the Compassionate" , and"Sheyanee").1. Divine magic is regarded as a sublime science, and is studied only bygood men, and practised only for good purposes. Perfection in thisbranch of magic consists in the knowledge of "the most great name" ofGod ("el Ism el Aaam"). but this knowledge is imparted to none but thepeculiar favourites of Heaven. By virtue of this name, which wasengraved on his seal ring, Suleyman (or Solomon) subjected to hisdominion the Jinn and the birds and the winds, as mentioned in a formernote. By pronouncing it, his minister Aaf, also, transported, in aninstant, to the presence of his sovereign, in Jerusalem, the throne ofthe Queen of Sheba. But this was a small miracle to effect by suchmeans. for, by uttering this name, a man may even raise the dead. Othernames of the Deity, commonly known, are believed to have particularefficacies when uttered or written. as also are the names of theProphet. and Angels and good Jinn are said to be rendered subservient tothe purposes of divine magic by means of certain invocations. Of suchnames and invocations, together with words unintelligible to theuninitiated in this science, passages from the ur an, mysteriouscombinations of numbers, and peculiar diagrams and figures, are chieflycomposed written charms employed for good purposes. Enchantment, whenused for benevolent purposes, is regarded by the vulgar as a branch oflawful or divine magic. but not so by the learned. and the same remarkapplies to the science of divination.2. Satanic magic, as its name implies, is a science depending on theagency of the Devil and the inferior evil Jinn, whose services areobtained by means similar to those which propitiate, or rendersubservient, the good Jinn. It is condemned by the Prophet and all goodMuslims, and only practised for bad purposes. Enchantment, which istermed "es Ser," is almost universally acknowledged to be a branch ofsatanic magic. but some few persons assert (agreeably with several talesin this work), that it _may_ be, and by some _has_ been, studied withgood intentions, and practised by the aid of good Jinn. consequently,that there is such a science as _good_ enchantment, which is to beregarded as a branch of _divine_ or _lawful_ magic. The metamorphosesare said to be generally effected by means of spells, or invocations toJinn, accompanied by the sprinkling of water or dust,  c., on the objectto be transformed. Persons are said to be enchanted in various ways:some, paralyzed, or even deprived of life. others, affected withirresistible passion for certain objects. others, again, rendereddemoniacs. and some, transformed into brutes, birds,  c. The evil eye isbelieved to enchant in a very powerful and distressing manner. This wasacknowledged even by the Prophet. Diseases and death are oftenattributed to its influence. Amulets, which are mostly written charms,of the kind above described, are worn by many Muslims with the view ofcounteracting, or preserving from, enchantment. and for the samepurpose, many ridiculous ceremonies are practised. Divination, which istermed "el Kihaneh," is pronounced, on the highest authority, to be abranch of satanic magic. though not believed to be so by all Muslims.According to an assertion of the Prophet, what a fortune teller says maysometimes be true. because one of the Jinn steals away the truth, andcarries it to the magician's ear: for the Angels come down to the regionnext the earth (the lowest heaven), and mention the works that have beenpre ordained in heaven. and the Devils (or evil Jinn) listen to what theAngels say, and hear the orders predestined in heaven, and carry them tothe fortune tellers. It is on such occasions that shooting stars arehurled at the Devils. It is said that "the diviner obtains theservices of the Sheyan by magic arts, and by names , and bythe burning of perfumes, and he informs him of secret things: for theDevils, before the mission of the Apostle of God," it is added, "used toascend to heaven, and hear words by stealth." That the evil Jinnare believed still to ascend sufficiently near to the lowest heaven tohear the conversation of the Angels, and so to assist magicians, appearsfrom the former quotation, and is asserted by all Muslims. The discoveryof hidden treasures, before alluded to, is one of the objects for whichdivination is most studied. The mode of divination called "arbel Mendel" is by some supposed to be effected by the aid of evil Jinn.but the more enlightened of the Muslims regard it as a branch of naturalmagic. Some curious performances of this kind, by means of a fluidmirror of ink, have been described in my "Account of the Manners andCustoms of the Modern Egyptians," and in No. 117 of the "QuarterlyReview."There are certain modes of divination which cannot properly be classedunder the head of spiritual magic, but require a place between theaccount of this science and that of natural magic. The most importantof these branches of Kihaneh is Astrology, which is called "'Ilmen Nujoom." This is studied by many Muslims in the present day. and itsprofessors are often employed by the Arabs to determine a fortunateperiod for laying the foundation of a building, commencing a journey, c.. but more frequently by the Persians and Turks. The Prophetpronounced astrology to be a branch of magic. Another branch ofKihaneh is Geomancy, called "arb er Raml." a mode of divination fromcertain marks made on sand (whence its appellation), or on paper. andsaid to be chiefly founded on astrology. The science called "ez Zijr,"or "el 'Eyafeh," is a third branch of Kihaneh. being divination orauguration chiefly from the motions and positions, or postures, ofbirds, or of gazelles and other beasts of the chase. Thus, what wastermed a "Sane," that is, such an animal standing or passing with itsright side towards the spectator, was esteemed among the Arabs as ofgood omen. and a "Bare," or an animal of this kind with its left sidetowards the spectator, was held as inauspicious. "El iyafeh,"under which term are included Chiromancy and its kindred sciences, is afourth branch of Kihaneh. "Et Tefa ul," or the taking an omen,particularly a good one, from a name or words accidentally heard orseen, or chosen from a book, belongs to the same science. The taking a"fal," or omen, from the ur an is generally held to be lawful. Varioustrifling events are considered as ominous. For instance, a Sulanquitting his palace with his troops, a standard happened to strike a"thureiya" (a cluster of lamps, so called from resembling the Pleiades),and broke them: he drew from this an evil omen, and would haverelinquished the expedition. but one of his chief officers saidto him, "O our lord, thy standards have reached the Pleiades." and,being relieved by this remark, he proceeded, and returnedvictorious. The interpretation of dreams, "Taabeer el Menamat,"must also be classed among the branches of this science. According tothe Prophet, it is the only branch of divination worthy of dependance."Good dreams," said he, "are one of the parts of prophecy," and "nothingelse of prophecy remains." "Good dreams are from God. and false dreams,from the Devil." "When any one of you has a bad dream, spit three timesover your left shoulder, and seek protection with God from the Devilthrice. and turn from the side on which the dream was, to theother." This rule is observed by many Muslims. Dreams are generallyso fully relied upon by them as to be sometimes the means of decidingcontested points in history and science. The sight, in a dream, ofanything green or white, or of water, is considered auspicious. anythingblack or red, or fire, inauspicious. The distinction of fortunate andunfortunate days should also here be mentioned. Thursday and Friday,especially the latter, are considered fortunate. Monday and Wednesday,doubtful. Sunday, Tuesday, and Saturday, especially the last,unfortunate. It is said that there are seven evil days in everymonth. namely, the third, on which abeel (or Cain) killed Habeel(Abel). the fifth, on which God cast down Adam from paradise, andafflicted the people of Yoonus (Jonas), and on which Yoosuf (or Joseph)was cast into the well. the thirteenth, on which God took away thewealth of Eiyoob (or Job), and afflicted him, and took away the kingdomfrom Suleyman (or Solomon), and on which the Jews killed the prophets.the sixteenth, on which God exterminated and buried the people of Loo(or Lot), and transformed three hundred Christians into swine, and Jewsinto apes, and on which the Jews sawed asunder Zekereeya (or Zachariah).the twenty first, on which Pharaoh was born, and on which he wasdrowned, and on which his nation was afflicted with the plagues. thetwenty fourth, on which Numrood (or Nimrod) killed seventy women,and cast El Khaleel (or Abraham) into the fire, and on which wasslaughtered the camel of ale. and the twenty fifth, on which thesuffocating wind was sent upon the people of Hood.persons of the more enlightened classes of Muslims as altogether adeceptive art, no more worthy of respect than legerdemain. but it seemsto be nearly allied to enchantment. for it is said to effect, inappearance, the most wonderful transformations, and to cause the mostextraordinary visions. affecting the senses and imagination in a mannersimilar to opium. This and other drugs are supposed, by some persons, tobe the chief means by which such illusions are caused. and perfumes,which are generally burnt in these performances, may operate in asimilar manner. As such things are employed in performances of the kindcalled "arb el Mendel," before mentioned, these feats are regarded bymany as effected by natural magic, notwithstanding what has been saidabove respecting the services of evil Jinn being procured by means ofperfumes. Alchymy ("el Keemiya") is a branch of natural magic. It isstudied by many Muslims of the present day, and by some of considerabletalents and attainments.The most celebrated of the magicians who have gained notoriety in Egyptduring the course of the last hundred years, was the sheykh Amadadoomeh, who flourished somewhat more than sixty years ago I write in1837. Several persons of Cairo, men of intelligence and of goodeducation, have related to me various most marvellous stories of hisperformances, on the authority of eye witnesses whom they consideredveracious. but a more credible account of this magician I have found inthe work of an excellent historian of Modern Egypt. This author mentionsthe sheykh adoomeh as an aged man, of venerable appearance, who derivedhis origin from the town of Semennood, in the Delta, and who acquired avery great and extensive celebrity for his attainments in spiritual andnatural magic, and for holding converse, face to face, with Jinn, andcausing them to appear to other persons, even to the blind, as menacquainted with him informed the historian. His contemporaries, saysthis writer, entertained various opinions respecting him. but, amongthem, a famous grammarian and general scholar, the sheykh asanEl Kafrawee, regarded him as a first rate saint, who performed evidentmiracles. this learned man pronouncing as such the effects of "hislegerdemain and natural magic." His fame he describes as havingincreased until he was induced to try an unlucky experiment. A Memlookchief, Yoosuf Bey, saw some magic characters written on the body of oneof his female slaves, and, exasperated by jealousy, commanded her, witha threat of instant death, to tell him who had done this. She confessedthat a woman had taken her to the sheykh adoomeh, and that he hadwritten this charm to attract to her the Bey's love. Upon hearing this,he instantly sent some attendants to seize the magician, and to put himto death, and throw him into the Nile. which was done. But themanner in which the seizure was made, as related to me by one of myfriends, deserves to be mentioned. Several persons, one after another,endeavoured to lay hold upon him. but every arm that was stretched forthfor this purpose was instantly paralyzed, through a spell muttered bythe magician. until a man behind him thrust a gag into his mouth, and sostopped his enchantments.Of the stories related to me of adoomeh's miracles, the following willserve as a specimen: In order to give one of his friends a treat, hetook him to the distance of about half an hour's walk into the desert onthe north of Cairo. here they both sat down, upon the pebbly and sandyplain, and, the magician having uttered a spell, they suddenly foundthemselves in the midst of a garden, like one of the gardens ofparadise, abounding with flowers and fruit trees of every kind,springing up from a soil clothed with verdure brilliant as the emerald,and irrigated by numerous streamlets of the clearest water. A repast ofthe most delicious viands and fruits and wines was spread before them byinvisible hands. and they both ate to satiety, taking copious draughtsof the various wines. At length, the magician's guest sank into a deepsleep. and when he awoke, he found himself again in the pebbly and sandyplain, with adoomeh still by his side. The reader will probablyattribute this vision to a dose of opium or some similar drug. and suchI suppose to have been the means employed. for I cannot doubt theintegrity of the narrator, though he would not admit such anexplanation. regarding the whole as an affair of magic, effected by theoperation of Jinn, like similar relations in the present work.It may be remarked that most of the enchantments described in this workare said to be performed by _women_. and reputed _witches_ appear tohave been much more numerous in all countries than _wizards_. This factthe Muslims readily explain by a saying of their Prophet: That womenare deficient in sense and religion: whence they argue that they aremore inclined than men to practise what is unlawful. 16. _On the Two Grand Festivals._ The Muslims observe two grand'Eeds, or Festivals, in every year. The first of these immediatelyfollows Ramaan, the month of abstinence, and lasts three days: it iscalled the Minor Festival. The other, which is called the GreatFestival, commences on the tenth of Zu l ejjeh, the day when thepilgrims, halting on their return from Mount 'Arafat to Mekkeh, in theValley of Mine (vulgarly called Muna), perform their sacrifice: theobservance of this festival also continues three days, or four.Early in the first morning, on each of these festivals, the Muslim isrequired to perform a lustration of his whole person, as on the morningsof Friday. and on the first morning of the Minor Festival, he shouldbreak his fast with a few dates or some other light food. but on theGreat Festival, he abstains from food until he has acquitted himself ofthe religious duties now to be mentioned. Soon after sunrise, on thefirst day of each festival, the men, dressed in new or in their bestclothes, repair to the mosque, or to a particular place appointed forthe performance of the prayers of the 'Eed. On going thither, theyshould repeat, frequently, "God is most great!" this, on the MinorFestival, they should do inaudibly: on the other, aloud. Thecongregation, having assembled, repeat the prayers of two rek'ahs. afterwhich, the Khaeeb recites a khubeh. _i. e._ an exhortation and aprayer. On each of these festivals, in the mosque, or place of prayer,and in the street, and at each other's houses, friends congratulate andembrace one another. generally paying visits for this purpose. and thegreat receive visits from their dependants. The young, on theseoccasions, kiss the right hand of the aged. and servants or dependantsdo the same to their masters or superiors, unless the latter be of highrank, in which case they kiss the end of the hanging sleeve, or theskirt of the outer garment. Most of the shops are closed, exceptingthose at which eatables and sweet drinks are sold. but the streets arefilled with people in their holiday clothes.On the Minor Festival, which, as it terminates an arduous fast, iscelebrated with more rejoicing than the other, servants and otherdependants receive presents of new articles of clothing from theirmasters or patrons. and the servant receives presents of small sums ofmoney from his master's friends, whom, if they do not visit his master,he goes to congratulate. as well as from any former master, to whom heoften takes a plateful of kaks. These are sweet cakes, or biscuits, ofan annular form, composed of flour and butter, with a little 'ajameeyeh(which is a thick paste consisting of butter, honey, a little flour, andsome spices) inside. They are also often sent as presents on thisoccasion by other people. Another custom required of the faithful onthis festival is the giving of alms.On the Great Festival, after the prayers of the congregation, every onewho can afford it performs, with his own hand, or by that of a deputy, asacrifice of a ram, he goat, cow or buffalo, or she camel. part of themeat of which he eats, and part he gives to the poor, or to his friendsor dependants. The ram or goat should be at least one year old. the cowor buffalo, two years. and the camel, five years. and the victim shouldnot have any considerable mutilation or infirmity. A cow or buffalo, ora camel, is a sufficient sacrifice for seven persons. The clothes whichwere put on new at the former festival are generally worn on thisoccasion. and the presents which are given to servants and others areusually somewhat less.On each of the two festivals it is also customary, especially with thewomen, to visit the tombs of relations. The party generally take withthem a palm branch, and place it, broken in several pieces, or merelyits leaves, upon the tomb or monument. or some, instead of this, placesweet basil or other flowers. They also usually provide themselves withsweet cakes, bread, dates, or some other kind of food, to distribute tothe poor. But their first duty, on arriving at the tomb, is to recitethe Fateah (the opening Chapter of the ur an), or to employ a personto recite previously a longer chapter. generally the thirty sixth (orSoorat Ya Seen). or even the whole of the book: or sometimes thevisiters recite the Fateah, and, after having hired a person to performa longer recitation, go away before he commences. The women often stayall the days of the festival in the cemeteries, either in tents, or inhouses of their own, erected there for their reception on these andother occasions. The tent of each party surrounds the tomb which is theobject of their visit. In the outskirts of the cemeteries, swings andwhirligigs are erected. and story tellers, dancers, and jugglers, amusethe populace. 17. _On the Mode of Slaughtering of Animals for Food._ In the oldtranslation, the sheykh is described as preparing to slaughter the cowwith a _mallet_. This is a mistake of a serious nature. as the flesh ofthe victim, if so killed, would be legally unclean. The Muslims arerequired to slaughter animals for food in a particular manner. Sheep,goats, cows or bulls, and buffaloes, must be killed by cutting thethroat, at the part next the head, or any other part. dividing thewindpipe, gullet, and carotid arteries. The camel is to be slaughteredby _stabbing_ the throat at the part next the breast. Poultry, also,must be killed by cutting the throat. and so must every tame animal ofwhich the flesh is lawful food. The slaughterer, in every case, must bea Muslim, a Christian, or a Jew. of either sex. On commencing theoperation, he must say, "In the name of God! God is most great!" or atleast, "In the name of God!" but not add, "the Compassionate, theMerciful" for an obvious reason. Birds or beasts of the chase may bekilled by an arrow, a dog, a hawk,  c.. but the name of God must beuttered at the time of discharging the arrow, or slipping the dog,  c.When the beast or bird is not killed at once by the arrow,  c., it mustbe slaughtered as soon as possible, in the same manner as sheep andpoultry: the law, as well as humanity, requires this. 18. _On the Influence of Eloquence and Tales upon the Arabs._ Themain incident upon which this work is founded, the triumph of thefascination of the tongue over a cruel and unjust determination whichnothing else could annul, might be regarded, by persons unacquaintedwith the character and literature of the Arabs, as a contrivance tooimprobable in its nature. but such is not the case. Perhaps there are noother people in the world who are such enthusiastic admirers ofliterature, and so excited by romantic tales, as those above named.Eloquence, with them, is lawful magic: it exercises over their minds anirresistible influence. "I swear by God," said their Prophet, "verilyabuse of infidels in verse is worse to them than arrows." This, ofcourse, alludes to _Arab_ unbelievers.In the purest, or Heroic Age of Arabic literature, which was anterior tothe triumph of the Mohammadan religion, the conquest which the love ofeloquence could achieve over the sanguinary and vindictive feelings ofthe Arabs was most remarkably exemplified in the annual twenty days'fair of 'Oka, or 'Okah. Respecting this fair, I shall here insert afew particulars borrowed from an author who is at present devotingtalents of the very highest order to the study and illustration of thehistory and literature of the early Arabs, and to whose conversation andwritings I must acknowledge myself indebted for most valuableinformation, which will often be of great utility to me in thisundertaking, as well as in every branch of my Arabic studies.The fair of 'Oka "was not only a great mart opened annually to all thetribes of Arabia. but it was also a literary congress, or rather ageneral concourse of virtues, of glory and of poetry, whither thehero poets resorted to celebrate their exploits in rhyming verse, andpeacefully to contend for every kind of honour. This fair was held inthe district of Mekkeh, between E aif and Nakhleh, and was opened atthe new moon of Zu l aadeh. that is to say, at the commencement of aperiod of three sacred months, during which all war was suspended, andhomicide interdicted.... How is it possible to conceive that men whosewounds were always bleeding, who had always acts of vengeance toexecute, vengeances to dread, could at a certain epoch impose silenceupon their animosities, so as tranquilly to sit by a mortal enemy? Howcould the brave who required the blood of a father, a brother, or a son,according to the phraseology of the desert and of the Bible, wholong, perhaps, had pursued in vain the murderer, meet him, accost himpeacefully at 'Oka, and only assault with cadences and rhymes him whosepresence alone seemed to accuse him of impotence or cowardice, him whomhe was bound to slay, under pain of infamy, after the expiration of thetruce? In fine, how could he hear a panegyric celebrating a gloryacquired at his own expense, and sustain the fire of a thousand looks,and yet appear unmoved? Had the Arabs no longer any blood in their veinsduring the continuance of the fair? These questions, soembarrassing, ... were determined , during the age ofArab paganism, in a manner the most simple and most refined. At thefair of 'Oka, the heroes were masked . In the recitationsand improvisations, the voice of the orator was aided by that of arhapsodist or crier, who was stationed near him, and repeated his words.There is a similar office in the public prayers: it is that of themuballigh (transmitter), who is employed to repeat in a loud voice whatis said in a lower tone by the Imam. These two facts have been revealedto me by the same manuscript which I am translating, and upon which I amcommenting. The use of the mask might, however, be eitheradopted or dispensed with, _ad libitum_. as is proved by the narrativesof a great number of quarrels begun and ended at 'Oka.... It was inthis congress of the Arab poets (and almost every warriour was a poet atthe age which I am considering) that the dialects of Arabia became fusedinto a magic language, the language of the ejaz, which Moammad madeuse of to subvert the world. for the triumph of Moammad is nothing elsethan the triumph of speech." The ur an is regarded by the Arabsas an everlasting miracle, surpassing all others, appealing to theunderstanding of every generation by its inimitable eloquence. Astronger proof of the power of language over their minds could hardly beadduced. unless it be their being capable of receiving as a crediblefact the tradition that both genii and men were attracted by theeloquent reading of David, when he recited the Psalms. that the wildbeasts and the birds were alike fascinated. and that sometimes therewere borne out from his assembly as many as four hundred corpses of menwho died from the excessive delight with which he thus inspiredthem. It may be added that the recitation, or chanting, of theur an is a favourite means of amusing the guests at modern privatefestivities.In what may be termed the Middle Age of Arabic literature, commencingfrom the triumph of the Mohammadan religion, and extending to thefoundation of the Empire of Baghdad, the power of eloquence over theeducated classes of the Arabs probably increased in proportion as itbecame less familiar to them: for, early in this age, they began tosimplify their spoken language in consequence of their intercourse withstrangers, who could not generally acquire the difficult, old dialect oftheir conquerors: this, therefore, then began to be confined to literarycompositions. That such a change took place at this period appears fromseveral anecdotes interspersed in Arabic works. The Khaleefeh El Weleed(who reigned near the close of the first century of the Flight), the sonof 'Abd El Melik, spoke so corrupt a dialect that he often could notmake himself understood by the Arabs of the desert. A ridiculousinstance of the mistakes occasioned by his use of the simplifiedlanguage which is now current is related by Abu l Fida. The same authoradds, that the father and predecessor of this prince was a man ofeloquence, and that he was grieved by the corrupt speech of his son,which he considered as a defect that incapacitated him to be a futureruler of the Arabs, as they were still great admirers of purity ofspeech, though so large a proportion of them spoke a corrupt dialect.wherefore, he sent him to a house to be instructed by a grammarian. butafter the youth had remained there a long time, he returned to hisfather more ignorant than before. Vulgarisms, however, would sometimesescape from the mouth of 'Abd El Melik himself. yet, so sensible was heto eloquence, that, when a learned man, with whom he was conversing,elegantly informed him of an error of this kind, he ordered his mouth tobe filled with jewels. "These," said his courteous admonisher, "arethings to be treasured up. not to be expended:" and for this delicatehint, he was further rewarded with thirty thousand pieces of silver, andseveral costly articles of apparel. It may be aptly added, thatthis Khaleefeh was, in the beginning of his reign, an unjust monarch.and as he thus bore some slight resemblance to our Shahriyar, so was hereclaimed to a sense of his duty by means somewhat similar. Being, onenight, unable to sleep, he called for a person to tell him a story forhis amusement. "O Prince of the Faithful," said the man thus bidden,"there was an owl in El Moil, and an owl in El Barah. and the owl ofEl Moil demanded in marriage, for her son, the daughter of the owl ofEl Barah: but the owl of El Barah said, 'I will not, unless thou giveme, as her dowry, a hundred desolate farms.' 'That I cannot do,' saidthe owl of El Moil, 'at present. but if our sovereign (may God, whosename be exalted, preserve him!) live one year, I will give thee whatthou desirest.'" This simple fable sufficed to rouse the prince fromhis apathy, and he thenceforward applied himself to fulfil the duties ofhis station.In the most flourishing age of Arabic poetry and general literature andscience, commencing from the foundation of the Empire of Baghdad, andextending to the conquest of Egypt by the 'Osmanlee Turks, the influenceof eloquent and entertaining language upon the character of the Arabsovereigns was particularly exemplified. A few illustrative anecdotesmay here be inserted.It is related by El Ama'ee, that Haroon Er Rasheed, at a grand fetewhich he was giving, ordered the poet Abu l 'Atahiyeh to depict, inverse, the voluptuous enjoyments of his sovereign. The poet beganthus: "Live long in safe enjoyment of thy desires, under the shadowof lofty palaces!""Well said!" exclaimed Er Rasheed: "and what next?""May thy wishes be abundantly fulfilled, whether at eventideor in the morning!""Well!" again said the Khaleefeh: "then what next?""But when the rattling breath struggles in the dark cavityof the chest.Then shalt thou know surely, that thou hast been only inthe midst of illusions." Er Rasheed wept. and Fal, the son of Yaya, said, "The Prince of theFaithful sent for thee to divert him, and thou hast plunged him intogrief." "Suffer him," said the prince. "for he hath beheld us inblindness, and it displeased him to increase it."The family of the Barmekees (one of the most brilliant ornaments ofwhich was the Wezeer Jaafar, who has been rendered agreeably familiar tous by the many scenes in which he is introduced in the present work)earned a noble and enduring reputation by their attachment toliterature, and the magnificent rewards they conferred on learned men.It was peculiarly hard, therefore, that literature contributed to theirmelancholy overthrow. Poets were employed by their enemies to composesongs artfully pointed against them, to be sung before the prince towhom they owed their power. Of one of these songs, the following linesformed a part: "Would that Hind had fulfilled the promises she made us, and healedthe disease under which we suffer!That she had once, at least, acted for herself! for imbecile, indeed,is he who doth not so.""Yea! By Allah! Imbecile!" exclaimed the Khaleefeh, on hearing theseverses: his jealousy was roused. and his vengeance soon after fellheavily upon his former favourites.One of the Khaleefehs having invited the poets of his day to his palace,a Bedawee, carrying a water jar to fill at the river, followed them, andentered with them. The Khaleefeh, seeing this poor man with the jar onhis shoulder, asked him what brought him thither. He returned for answerthese words: "Seeing that this company had girded on the saddlesTo repair to thy overflowing river, I came with my jar."The Khaleefeh, delighted with his answer, gave orders to fill his jarwith gold.In the present declining age of Arabian learning (which may be said tohave commenced about the period of the conquest of Egypt by the'Osmanlees), literary recreations still exert a magic influence upon theArabs. Compositions of a similar nature to the tales of a Thousand andOne Nights (though regarded by the learned as idle stories unworthy ofbeing classed with their literature) enable numbers of professionalstory tellers to attract crowds of delighted listeners to thecoffee shops of the East. and now that the original of the present workis printed, and to be purchased at a moderate price, it will probablysoon, in a great measure, supersede the romances of Aboo Zeyd, E ahir,and 'Antar. As a proof of the powerful fascinations with which the talesof a Thousand and One Nights affect the mind of a highly enlightenedMuslim, it may be mentioned that the latest native historian of ModernEgypt, the sheykh 'Abd Er Raman El Jabartee, so delighted in theirperusal that he took the trouble of refining the language of a copy ofthem which he possessed, expunging or altering whatever was grosslyoffensive to morality without the somewhat redeeming quality of wit, andadding many facetie of his own, and of other literati. What has becomeof this copy, I have been unable, though acquainted with several of hisfriends, to discover. 19. It is a common custom among the Muslims to give a present to aperson who brings good tidings. The word (bisharah) which I render "areward for bringing good news," literally signifies merely "good news."but it is often used, as in this case, in the former sense. 20. A Mohammadan woman is not allowed to show her face to any menexcepting certain near relations and others whom the law prohibits herfrom marrying. Who these are will be mentioned in a future note,descriptive of the general laws and ceremonies of marriage. Respectablefemales consider it a great disgrace to be seen unveiled by any men butthose above alluded to. 21. _On the_ Deenar _and_ Dirhem. The standards of gold andsilver coin, among the Arabs, were the deenar and the dirhem: therefore,in this work, I call the former "a piece of gold," and the latter "apiece of silver." Their values have varied considerably at differentperiods. but in the present work, we shall sufficiently approximate tothe truth, if we understand the average value of the former to be aboutten shillings or half a guinea. and that of the latter, about sixpence. 22. _Description of Shops._ In Eastern cities, most of the greatthoroughfare streets, and many others, have a row of shops along eachside, not communicating with the superstructures. which latter aredivided into separate lodgings, inhabited by different families, andseldom by the persons who rent the shops beneath. These streets arecalled, in Arabic, "Soos." and are generally termed by us, "Bazars." Awhole street of this description, or a portion of such a street,commonly contains only or chiefly shops appropriated to a particulartrade. and is called the Soo of that trade. In general, the shop is asmall recess or cell, about six or seven feet high, and between threeand four feet wide, the floor of which is even with the top of a raisedseat of stone or brick, called "maabah," between two and three feethigh, and about the same in breadth. upon which the shopkeeper usuallysits. The front of the shop is furnished with shutters. which, whenclosed, at night, are secured by a wooden lock. Several of theengravings in this work will convey a better notion of shops ofdifferent kinds than a more detailed description. 23. Distrust in his governors and relations and acquaintance ofteninduces an Arab to hide his money under the paved floor of a room, or insome other place, in his house. 24. These words, "I give myself to thee," uttered by a woman to aman, even without the presence of witnesses, if they cannot be easilyprocured, render her his lawful wife, if he replies that he accepts her,and gives her a dowry. 25. I have substituted "Jinneeyeh" (agreeably with the Calcuttaedition of the first two hundred nights, and because the contextrequires it) for "'Efreeteh," which signifies a powerful and evil femalegenie. The tale to which this note refers may be illustrated by thefollowing anecdote, which was related to me by a Persian with whom I wasacquainted in Cairo, named Abu l asim, a native of Geelan, thensuperintendent of the Basha's Printing office at Boola.One of this person's countrymen, whom he asserted to be a man ofindubitable veracity, was sitting on the roof of a house which he hadhired, overlooking the Ganges, and was passing the closing hour of theday, according to his usual custom, smoking his Persian pipe, andfeasting his eyes by gazing at the beautiful forms of Indian maidensbathing in the river, when he beheld among them one so lovely that hisheart was overpowered with desire to have her for his wife. At nightfallshe came to him, and told him that she had observed his emotion, andwould consent to become his wife. but on the condition that he shouldnever admit another female to take or share her place, and that sheshould only be with him in the night time. They took the marriage vow toeach other, with none for their witness but God. and great was hishappiness, till, one evening, he saw again, among a group of girls inthe river, another who excited in him still more powerful emotions. Tohis surprise, this very form stood before him at the approach of night.He withstood the temptation, mindful of his marriage vow: she used everyallurement. but he was resolute. His fair visiter then told him that shewas his wife. that she was a Jinneeyeh. and that she would alwaysthenceforward visit him in the form of any female whom he might chanceto prefer. 26. This form of benediction is almost always added when theProphet is mentioned in a book by any of his followers, and often alsoin conversation. 27. Perhaps it is needless to explain this proverb by the words ofthe Bible "Vengeance is mine. I will repay, saith the Lord." (Romans,xii. 19.) For the honour of the Muslims I must say that this maxim isoften observed by them, excepting in cases to which the law ofretaliation applies. 28. The houses in Arabian countries generally have flat roofs, uponwhich, in the summer, some of the inhabitants often sleep: the interior,therefore, is as accessible from the roof as from the common entrance. 29. I here steer a middle course between my usual standardcopy which gives the story of the third sheykh more fully than I havedone and the Calcutta edition of the first two hundred nights, whichomits it altogether, as does also the copy from which the oldtranslation was made, perhaps on account of its uninteresting nature.