 1. In the old version, the person here named Enees el Jelees iscalled "The Fair Persian." but I do not find her so described in anycopy of the original. The name here given to her may be rendered "theCompanion's Cheerer." "Enees" being a term applied to any person orthing serving as an agreeable, cheering companion. and "Jelees"signifying "a companion," or "one in the habit of sitting with another." 2. "Khaeeyeh" is derived from "kha," which signifies "writing,"but which is also the name of a place (Kha Hejer) in the province ofEl Bareyn, a famous mart for spears. Of the figure of speech employedin the couplet in which this word occurs (considered by the Arabs anelegant mode of etiology, and called by them "osn et taaleel") mysheykh gives the following example in a marginal note: "And the rain fell not but for the purpose of kissing the groundbefore thee." 3. "El Mo'een" signifies "the Aider," or "the Assistant." 4. "El Fal," signifying "the Excellence," is here, as a propername, an abbreviation of "Fal ed Deen," "the Excellence of theReligion." 5. This phrase (a person of auspicious aspect) is often usedby the modern Arabs and the Turks, and signifies "a virtuous orbeneficent man." 6. This answer is not to be understood in its literal sense. it hasbecome a common form of speech which an Arab often uses for the purposeof obtaining something more than he would venture to demand. 7. "May it be favourable," or "  beneficial," is a complimentusually addressed to a person who has just been to the bath, and to aman who has just had his head shaved. The reply is, "May God bestowfavours upon thee." 8. _On the Law respecting Murder and unintentional Homicide._ Theur an ordains that murder shall be punished with death. or, rather,that the free shall die for the free, the slave for the slave, and awoman for a woman. or that the perpetrator of the crime shall pay, tothe heirs of the person whom he has killed, if they will allow it, afine, which is to be divided according to the laws of inheritance.It also ordains, that unintentional homicide shall be expiated byfreeing a believer from slavery, and paying, to the family of the personkilled, a fine, unless they remit it. But these laws are amplifiedand explained by the same book and by the Imams. A fine is not to beaccepted for murder unless the crime has been attended by somepalliating circumstance. This fine, the price of blood, is a hundredcamels. or a thousand deenars (about 500_l._) from him who possessesgold. or, from him who possesses silver, twelve thousand dirhems(about 300_l._). This is for killing a free man. for a woman, half thatsum. for a slave, his or her value, but that must fall short of theprice of blood for the free. A person unable to free a believer mustfast two months as in Ramaan. The accomplices of a murderer are liableto the punishment of death. By the Sunneh also, a man is obnoxious tocapital punishment for the murder of a woman. and by the anafee law,for the murder of another man's slave. But he is exempted from thispunishment who kills his own child or other descendant, or his ownslave, or his son's slave, or a slave of whom he is part owner: so alsoare his accomplices: and according to Esh Shafe'ee, a Muslim, though aslave, is not to be put to death for killing an infidel, though thelatter be free. A man who kills another in self defence, or to defendhis property from a robber, is exempt from all punishment. The price ofblood is a debt incumbent on the family, tribe, or association, of whichthe homicide is a member. It is also incumbent on the inhabitants of anenclosed quarter, or the proprietor or proprietors of a field, in whichthe body of a person killed by an unknown hand is found. unless theperson has been found killed in his own house.Hence it appears, that the punishment with which the Wezeer El Falthreatened his son is not to be regarded as a grave criminal act.especially when we consider the nature of the son's offence: for theslave was the property of the king, and it was not allowable to anyother man even to see her without his permission. Many of the charactersdepicted in the present work would seem incongruous in the extreme, ifjudged according to European notions of justice and other moralqualities. 9. "The two professions of the faith," "There is no deity but God,"and "Moammad is God's Apostle," are generally repeated by a dyingMuslim. 10. This is said to imply (as my sheykh has remarked in a marginalnote) that El Fal was a charitable person who bestowed pensions uponthe professors of the ur an and of science. There are many among themodern Muslims who do so, and numbers also who found and endow publicschools. 11. _On the Washing, Shrouding, and Burial of the Dead._ Theceremonies attendant upon death and burial are nearly the same in thecases of men and women. The face or the head of the dying person isturned towards the direction of Mekkeh. When the spirit is departing,the eyes are closed. and then, or immediately after, the women of thehouse commence a loud lamentation, in which many of the females of theneighbourhood generally come to join. Hired female mourners are alsousually employed. each of whom accompanies her exclamations of "Alas forhim!"  c., by beating a tambourine. If possible, the corpse is buried onthe day of the death. but when this cannot be done, the lamentation ofthe women is continued during the ensuing night. and a recitation ofseveral chapters, or of the whole, of the ur an is performed by one ormore men hired for the purpose.The washing consists, first, in the performance of the ordinary ablutionwhich is preparatory to prayer, with the exception of the cleansing ofthe mouth and nose. and secondly, in an ablution of the whole body withwarm water and soap, or with water in which some leaves of the lote treehave been boiled. The jaw is bound up, the eyes are closed, and thenostrils  c., are stuffed with cotton. and the corpse is sprinkled witha mixture of water, pounded camphor, dried and pounded leaves of thelote tree, and sometimes other dried and pulverized leaves,  c., andwith rose water. The ankles are bound together. and the hands placedupon the breast.The grave clothing of a poor man consists of a piece or two of cotton,or a kind of bag: but the corpse of a man of wealth is generally wrappedfirst in muslin. then, in cotton cloth of a thicker texture. next, in apiece of striped stuff of silk and cotton intermixed, or in a afan (along vest) of similar stuff, merely stitched together. and over these iswrapped a Kashmeer shawl. The colours most approved for thegrave clothes are white and green. The body thus shrouded is placed in abier, which is usually covered with a Kashmeer shawl, and borne on theshoulders of three or four men, generally friends of the deceased.There are some slight differences in the funeral ceremonies observed indifferent Arab countries. but a sufficient notion of them will beconveyed by briefly describing those which prevail in Cairo. Theprocession to the tomb is generally headed by a number of poor men,mostly blind, who, walking two and two, or three and three, together,chant, in a melancholy tone, the profession (or two professions) of thefaith, mentioned above (in Note 9), or sometimes other words. They areusually followed by some male relations and friends of the deceased. andthese, by a group of schoolboys, chanting in a higher tone, and one ofthem bearing a copy of the ur an, or of one of its thirty sections,placed upon a kind of desk formed of palm sticks, and covered with anembroidered kerchief. Then follows the bier, borne head foremost.Friends of the deceased relieve one another in the office of carryingit. and casual passengers often take part in this service, which isesteemed highly meritorious. Behind the bier walk the female mourners,composing a numerous group, often more than a dozen. or, if of a wealthyfamily, they ride. Each of those who belong to the family of thedeceased has a strip of cotton stuff or muslin, generally blue, boundround her head, over the head veil, and carries a handkerchief, usuallydyed blue (the colour of mourning), which she sometimes holds over hershoulders, and at other times twirls with both hands over her head orbefore her face, while she cries and shrieks almost incessantly. and thehired female mourners, accompanying the group, often celebrate thepraises of the deceased in the manner described in the preceding tale,though this was forbidden by the Prophet. The funeral procession of aman of wealth is sometimes preceded by several camels, bearing bread andwater to give to the poor at the tomb. and closed by the led horses ofsome of the attendants, and by a buffalo or other animal to besacrificed at the tomb, where its flesh is distributed to the poor, toatone for some of the minor sins of the deceased.The bier used for conveying the corpse of a boy or a female has a coverof wood, over which a shawl is spread. and at the head is an uprightpiece of wood: upon the upper part of this, in the case of a boy, isfixed a turban, with several ornaments of female head dress. and in thecase of a female, it is similarly decked, but without the turban.A short prayer is recited over the dead, either in a mosque or in aplace particularly dedicated to this service in, or adjacent to, theburial ground. The body is then conveyed, in the same manner as before,to the tomb. This is a hollow, oblong vault, one side of which faces thedirection of Mekkeh, generally large enough to contain four or morebodies, and having an oblong monument of stone or brick constructed overit, with a stela at the head and foot. Upon the former of these twostele (which is often inscribed with a text from the ur an, and thename of the deceased, with the date of his death), a turban, cap, orother head dress, is sometimes carved, shewing the rank or class of theperson or persons buried beneath. and in many cases, a cupola supportedby four walls, or by columns,  c., is constructed over the smallermonument. The body is laid on its right side, or inclined by means of afew crude bricks, so that the face is turned towards Mekkeh. and aperson is generally employed to dictate to the deceased the answerswhich he should give when he is examined by the two angels Munkar andNekeer, whom I have mentioned in No. 21 of the Notes to theIntroduction. If the funeral be that of a person of rank or wealth, thebread and water  c. before mentioned are then distributed to thepoor.The principal ceremonies observed _after_ the funeral have beendescribed in Note 15 to Chapter iv. 12. "The lord (or chief) of the first and the last among mankind"is one of the many appellations of honour given by the Muslims to theirProphet. 13. My sheykh remarks, that this is said merely to excite men togenerosity. for literally it is not true, as is shown by the memorableexample of Kaab the son of Mameh, who preferred giving the water withwhich he was provided to another, and in consequence himself died ofthirst. 14. We are not to understand that such a slave as Enees el Jeleeswas exposed to the public gaze in a market to which all personsindiscriminately were admitted (for this would be at variance withEastern usages). but in a special mart to which none were allowed accessbut persons of wealth who expressed a desire to purchase. 15. _On Kissing the Ground, as a Mode of Obeisance._ This andseveral other passages in the present work shew that we are often tounderstand the expression "kissing the ground before a person" assignifying "touching the ground, and then the lips and forehead, orturban, with the right hand." and I believe this expression should_generally_ be so understood. When I wrote the fourteenth note to theIntroduction, I inclined to a contrary opinion, chiefly fromrecollecting to have read the following translation of a passage ofEl Mareezee, by the learned De Sacy: "Ce khalife ordonnaqu'a l'avenir on ne baiseroit plus la terre devant lui. que personne, enle saluant dans les marches publiques, ne baiseroit sa main ou sonetrier, parce que cette coutume de se _prosterner_ devant une creatureetoit une invention des Grecs." But on referring to the original, Ifind that the words which he renders "cette coutume de se prosterner"signify literally "the bending towards the ground." I suppose,therefore, that his deviating from the literal sense in one case wasowing to his adhering to it in another. and not meeting with the proofwhich I had fancied to exist of his being right, I venture to differfrom him in this instance, without fear of being suspected of arrogance,as the kind of obeisance above described is _often_ called "kissing theground" both by the Arabs and the Persians. I should add that, except inthe house, I do not remember to have ever seen the ground actuallytouched, but nearly so, in making this obeisance, which is still called"kissing the ground" when thus imperfectly performed. 16. By this is meant, a place where mud was kneaded to be employedin building. The mortar generally used in the construction of Arabhouses is composed of mud in the proportion of one half, with a fourthpart of lime, and the remaining part of the ashes of straw and rubbish. 17. See the note immediately preceding. 18. In Arabic, "bursh." This kind of mat, composed of palm leaves(and sometimes, I believe, of the coarse grass mentioned in the nextnote), is used by the poor to sit upon. 19. This kind of grass, called in Arabic "alfeh," and moreproperly "alfa" (by botanists, poa multiflora, and poa cynosyroides),and the "'aool" (or hedysarum alhagi), overspread spontaneously most ofthe alluvial tracts in Egypt which are above the reach of theinundation, and in consequence left uncultivated. The former is used inthe manufacture of coarse mats, and the latter serves as pasture forcamels. The Wezeer, by taking the round mat and the two bundles ofalfa, seems to indicate that he is degraded to a condition as low asthat of a maker of coarse mats. (The practice mentioned in the passageto which this note refers is aptly illustrated in El Mareezee's Khia.In his description of the palaces of the Faimee Khaleefehs, he says,"There was in the Great Palace a place known by the name of theSaeefeh, where complainants of injustice used to station themselves.and it was a custom of the Khaleefeh to sit there every night, for thoseof the complainants of injustice who might come to him. When any one,therefore, was wronged, he would stand under the Saeefeh, and say, ina loud voice, 'There is no deity but God, Moammad is the Apostle ofGod, 'Alee is the Friend (Welee) of God.' and the Khaleefeh would hearhim, and command him to be brought to him, or he would intrust his caseto the Wezeer,"  c. ED.) 20. The boats used by the Arabs in the navigation of rivers aregenerally moored by means of a rope attached to a stake which is driveninto the bank. 21. By "children of the road" are meant "travellers." 22. See Note 55 to Chapter iii. 23. The word which I render elevated (mo'allaah) is applied to astructure raised upon columns or pillars,  c. 24. The "ghaa" is a tree of a very inflammable nature, which, inburning, gives out a fierce heat. It grows chiefly in sandy tracts, andis described as resembling the "athl" (or tamarisk), but as beingsmaller than this tree. 25. _On Shaving the Head._ I do not know when the custom ofshaving the head became general among the Arabs of the towns. but from aremark of Es Suyooee, I think it was not so common about thecommencement of the tenth century of the Flight (that is, about theperiod which this work best illustrates) as it is at present, when it isalmost universal among all classes. for in his time, its legality wasdoubted. He writes thus: "The Iman El Ghazalee hath said, 'There is noharm in it in the case of him whose object is cleanliness:' and theapparent sense of his words is, that it is improper in him who desirethto beautify himself for any worldly purpose, as is done by people of baddisposition." It is added in a marginal note in the copy from whichI translate this, "Persons differ respecting the shaving of the head.The opinion generally prevailing is, that it is improper to him whowears not a turban, and allowable to him who does wear one, since he hasa substitute:" "that it is also lawful, unquestionably, in the case ofany disease of the head:" and "that the hanging of the rosary to theneck, and the shaving of the head without a legal necessity, areinnovations," Haroon Er Rasheed generally wore the hair of his headsufficiently long to reach below his ears. but shaved it when heperformed the pilgrimage. and many other Muslims in early times didthe same. Those who shave the head generally leave a small tuft upon thecrown. but most persons of the literary and religious professions, andmany others, disapprove of this tuft. 26. By the term "sheykhs" we are here to understand "persons ofsanctity and of learning." See Note 9 to Chapter i. 27. By "the shining moon" is meant "the beautiful cup bearer, whoseface is like the shining moon." 28. The Muslims believe that a blessing is derived from witnessingand hearing the devout exercises, recitations,  c., of holy men. 29. The "jubbeh" worn in Eastern countries, is a long outer vest,with sleeves which reach nearly to the wrist. It is now generally madeof cloth, and is worn by most tradesmen and other persons of the middleand higher classes. It differs somewhat in form in different countries. 30. The "melwaah" is a garment of which I was unable to obtain adescription until I inquired of my friend Mr. Salame, who informed methat it was the name of a large outer garment which used to be worn overthe farajeeyeh. But I afterwards found it stated in one of the marginalnotes to a later tale, that the term above mentioned is now pronounced"mellooah," and is applied in the present day to an article of dress ofcloth or other costly material. particularly to a jubbeh. but that itis also employed, in allusion to a jubbeh,  c., in a contemptuous sense,or, as I infer, ironically. 31. See Note 41 to Chapter iv. 32. The "litham" is a piece of drapery with which a Bedawee oftencovers the lower part of his face. It frequently prevents his beingrecognised by another Arab who might make him a victim of blood revenge.and is a means of disguise seldom employed but by Arabs of the desert. 33. The meaning is, that the act would speak for itself, and belong remembered. that the grave of the fisherman would be pointed out asthat of one to whom the Khaleefeh had shewn signal favours. 34. It is a common custom of Arabs of the lower orders to put themoney which they receive, especially when it is the first of the day'sgains, to the lips and forehead before depositing it in the pocket. andthe same is sometimes done by persons of the middle class. 35. Literally, "twenty nufs." See Note 17 to Chapter iii. 36. These are the aees of the four great sects, or persuasions,of the Sunnee Muslims. See Note 1 to the Introduction. 37. The words "and the Wezeer took him away" are omitted in theCairo edition. 38. "uey" is the diminutive of "i," _vulgo_ "u," a "cat,"and properly a "he cat." 39. The words which I translate "the place of blood" literallysignify "the place of the stagnation of blood." and are applied to theusual place of decapitation, because the blood is left there to soakinto the ground. 40. The recompense here alluded to is one to be received at thefinal retribution. not in the present life. 41. This kind of "ulleh" is a small, porous, earthen bottle, witha wide mouth. Some specimens of it are figured beneath.