 1. _On the Uses of Palm sticks in various Manufactures._ The kindof crate here mentioned is made of jereeds, or palm sticks, which (beingvery soft, and easily cut and punched, in their fresh state, and verytough, difficult to break, and light, when dry,) are used in a greatvariety of manufactures. In making crates or baskets, and stools,bed frames, coops,  c., a number of jereeds, being placed an inch ormore apart, are fixed by two, three, or more, thicker ones, placedtransversely. Round holes are punched in the latter, through which theformer are inserted. and the whole becomes light and strong as soon asit is dry. Chests are made with thick jereeds placed close together, andothers, pared thin, passing transversely through them. 2. _Description of the Veils of Arab Women._ The modern izar oreezar (for the word is written in two different ways), of Arab women, isa piece of drapery commonly worn by them when they appear in public. Itis about two yards or more in width (according to the height of thewearer), and three yards in length: one edge of it being drawn frombehind, over the upper part of the head and the forehead, and secured bya band sewed inside, the rest hangs down behind and on each side to theground, or nearly so, and almost entirely envelops the person. the twoends being held so as nearly to meet in front. Thus it conceals everyother part of the dress excepting a small portion of a very loose gown(which is another of the articles of walking or riding apparel), and theface veil. It is now generally made of white calico, but a similarcovering of black silk for the married, and of white silk for theunmarried, is now worn by females of the higher and middle classes, andis called a "abarah."It appears that the kind of face veil mentioned in the same passage (inArabic, "inaa,") is a piece of muslin, about a yard or more in length,and somewhat less in width, a portion of which is placed over the head,beneath the izar, the rest hanging down in front, to the waist, orthereabout, and entirely concealing the face. I have often seen Arabwomen, particularly those of the Wahhabees, wearing veils of this kindcomposed of printed muslin, completely concealing their features, yet ofsufficiently loose fabric to admit of their seeing their way. But themore common kind of Arab face veil is a long strip of white muslin, orof a kind of black crape, covering the whole of the face excepting theeyes, and reaching nearly to the feet. It is suspended at the top by anarrow band, which passes up the forehead, and which is sewed, as arealso the two upper corners of the veil, to a band that is tied round thehead. This veil is called "buro'." The black kind is often ornamentedwith gold coins, false pearls,  c., attached to the upper part. It isnot so genteel as the white veil, unless for a lady in mourning. 3. "El Moil" is the name of the city which Europeans commonly call"Mosul," "Mosoul,"  c.. a city long famous for its fine stuffs. Henceour word "muslin," often termed, in Arabic, "Moilee," signifying, "ofthe manufacture of El Moil." 4. The wine is mentioned in the Calcutta edition of the first twohundred nights, but not in the edition of Cairo. The lady went to aChristian to purchase her wine because Muslims are not allowed to sellit. 5. The "'Othmanee quinces" I suppose to be a kind so called aftersome person named 'Othman who introduced it, or was famous for itsculture. The term "Sulanee," applied to the citrons afterwardsmentioned, signifies "imperial." 6. A list of these sweets is given in my original, but I havethought it better to omit the names. 7. The "willow flower water" is prepared from the sweet scentedflowers of the Oriental willow, called "ban" and "khilaf" or "khalaf." atwig of which is, among the Arabs, a favourite emblem of a gracefulfemale. 8. _On the Vessels used for Sprinkling and Perfuming._ Thesprinkling bottle, here called "mirashsh," is more commonly called"umum," and has been alluded to in a former note, as having aspherical or wide body, and a long and narrow neck. It is generallyabout eight inches high, and of plain or gilt silver, or of fine brass,or china, or glass. and has a cover pierced with a small hole. Thisvessel is used in the houses of the rich to sprinkle a guest or visiter,before he rises to take his leave, with rose water. after whichceremony, a page or servant presents to him a kind of censer, called"mibkharah," which is generally of one or other of the metals abovementioned, and about the same height as the umum. and he wafts thesmoke which rises from it towards his face, beard,  c., with the righthand. The body of the mibkharah, the form of which is nearly globular,surmounts a stem rising from the centre of a small circular tray. theupper half is a cover pierced with apertures for the escape of thesmoke. and the lower half, in which some burning charcoal is placed, islined, or half filled, with gypsum plaster. Aloes wood, previouslymoistened, or some other odoriferous substance, is placed upon theburning coals. and sometimes, in the houses of very wealthy persons,ambergris is used. 9. This description of the outer door of a house in Baghdad is anobvious absurdity. but none of the copies of the original to which Ihave access authorizes my substituting "gilt" for "plated with gold."all here agreeing in the use of words which have the latter sense. 10. In their eagerness to obtain the earliest possible sight of thenew moon which marks the period of the commencement of the Ramaan, lestthey should not begin their fast as soon as the law requires, theMuslims often see the crescent one night earlier in this than in anyother month. The comparison of an eyebrow to the new moon of Ramaanexpresses, therefore, its extreme thinness, as well as its arched form.To reduce its natural thickness, and to give it this form, scissors areoften used. 11. "The seal of Suleyman" is a name given by the Arabs to asix pointed star formed by two equilateral triangles intersecting eachother, and to the flower which we, also, call "Solomon's seal." I fearthat the reader will not consider the comparison very apposite, unlessthe allusion be to a beautiful red berry which, I am informed, is borneby the flower here mentioned. 12. _Description of Apartments in Arab Houses._ Most of thedescriptions of interior domestic architecture which occur in thepresent work, I may aptly illustrate by availing myself of observationsmade in Cairo. In the houses of persons of the higher and middle classesin this city, the different apartments generally resemble each other inseveral respects, and are similarly furnished. The greater portion ofthe floor is elevated about half a foot, or somewhat more, above therest. The higher portion is called "leewan" (a corruption of"el eewan"), and the lower, "dura'ah," from the Persian "dar gah." Whenthere is but one leewan, the dura'ah occupies the lower end, extendingfrom the door to the opposite wall. In a handsome house, it is usuallypaved with white and black marble, and little pieces of red tile, inlaidin tasteful and complicated patterns. and if the room is on theground floor, and sometimes in other cases, it has, in the centre, afountain which plays into a small, shallow pool, lined with colouredmarbles,  c., like the surrounding pavement. The shoes, or slippers, areleft upon the dura'ah previously to stepping upon the leewan. Thelatter is generally paved with common stone, and covered with a mat insummer, and a carpet over this in winter. and a mattress and cushionsare placed against each of its three walls, composing what is called a"deewan," or divan. The mattress, which is commonly about three feetwide, and three or four inches thick, is placed either on the floor oron a raised frame or a slightly elevated pavement. and the cushions,which are usually of a length equal to the width of the mattress, and ofa height equal to half that measure, lean against the wall. Bothmattresses and cushions are stuffed with cotton, and are covered withprinted calico, cloth, or some more expensive stuff. The deewan whichextends along the upper end of the leewan is called the "adr," and isthe most honourable: and the chief place on this seat is the cornerwhich is to the right of a person facing this end of the room. the othercorner is the next in point of honour. and the intermediate places onthe same deewan are more honourable than those on the two side deewans.To a superior, and often to an equal, the master or mistress yields thechief place. The corners are often furnished with an additionalmattress, of a square form, just large enough for one person, placedupon the other mattress, and with two additional (but smaller) cushionsto recline against. The walls are, for the most part, plastered andwhite washed, and generally have two or more shallow cupboards, thedoors of which, as well as those of the apartments, are fancifullyconstructed with small panels. The windows, which are chiefly composedof curious wooden lattice work, serving to screen the inhabitants fromthe view of persons without, as also to admit both light and air,commonly project outwards, and are furnished with mattresses andcushions. In many houses there are, above these, small windows ofcoloured glass, representing bunches of flowers,  c. The ceiling is ofwood, and certain portions of it, which are carved, or otherwiseornamented by fanciful carpentry, are usually painted with brightcolours, such as red, green, and blue, and sometimes varied withgilding. but the greater part of the wood work is generally leftunpainted.The word in the original text which I translate "saloon," is "a'ah."This term is applied to a large and lofty apartment, commonly having twoleewans, on opposite sides of the dura'ah. One of these is, in mostinstances, larger than the other, and is held to be the more honourablepart. Some a'ahs, containing three leewans, one of these being oppositethe entrance, or four leewans composing the form of a cross with thedura'ah in the centre, communicate with small chambers or closets, orhave elevated recesses which are furnished in the same manner as theleewans. That part of the roof which is over the dura'ah rises abovethe rest, sometimes to nearly twice the height of the latter, and isgenerally surmounted by a lantern of wooden lattice work to admit theair. 13. In the Cairo edition, the couch is described as being in the_midst_ of the saloon. but this is inconsistent with what follows. 14. _Of_ Babil, _and the Angels_ Haroot _and_ Maroot. Babil, orBabel, is regarded by the Muslims as the fountain head of the science ofmagic, which was, and, as most think, still is, taught there to mankindby two fallen angels, named Haroot and Maroot, who are theresuspended by the feet in a great pit closed by a mass of rock.According to the account of them generally received as correct, thesetwo angels, in consequence of their want of compassion for the frailtiesof mankind, were rendered, by God, susceptible of human passions, andsent down upon the earth to be tempted: they both sinned. and, beingpermitted to choose whether they would be punished in this life or inthe other, chose the former. but they were sent down not merely to_experience_ temptation, being also appointed to tempt others by meansof their knowledge of magic. though it appears that they were commandednot to teach this art to any man "until they had said, Verily we are atemptation. therefore, be not an unbeliever." The celebratedtraditionist Mujahid is related to have visited them, under the guidanceof a Jew. Having removed the mass of rock from the mouth of the pit, orwell, they entered. Mujahid had been previously charged by the Jew notto mention the name of God in their presence. but when he beheld them,resembling in size two huge mountains, and suspended upside down, withirons attached to their necks and knees, he could not refrain fromuttering the forbidden name. whereupon the two angels became soviolently agitated that they almost broke the irons which confined them,and Mujahid and his guide fled back in consternation. 15. The meaning conveyed by this comparison is "tall and slender." 16. In the MS. from which the old translation was made, it appearsthat this lady is called Zubeydeh (which was the name of the daughter ofJaafar the son of El Manoor, and wife of Er Rasheed). the portress,afiyeh. and the cateress, Amineh. but no names are given to them in anyof the copies of the original to which I have access. 17. Literally, "two nufs." "Nuf," vulgarly pronounced by theEgyptians "nu," and signifying "half," is the name of a small Egyptiancoin made of a mixture of silver and copper, and now equivalent tosomething less than a quarter of a farthing. but this name wasoriginally given to the half dirhems which were struck in the reign ofthe Sulan El Mu eiyad, in the early part of the ninth century of theFlight, or of the fifteenth of our era. In the Calcutta edition of thefirst two hundred nights, and in the edition of Breslau, we read here"two dirhems," instead of "two nufs." (The coin here mentioned stillbears the name "Mu eiyadee," or, vulgarly, "Meiyadee." In the latestcoinage, copper has been substituted for the mixed metal. ED.) 18. The "menareh" is the tower of a mosque, commonly called byEnglish writers "minaret," which generally rises from a square base. 19. It is a common custom in the East to seal the doors ofstore houses with a lump of clay, lest the lock should be picked. 20. I here deviate a little from the Cairo edition, in which thecateress is described as having drunk three cups of wine successivelybefore she handed any to her sisters. My reason for this will presentlybe seen. 21. Thus in two editions. In the Cairo edition, "tukellimuhu" isput for "telkumuhu." 22. _On Wine, Fruits, Flowers, and Music, in  of ArabCarousals._ I here pass over an extremely objectionable scene, which, itis to be hoped, would convey a very erroneous idea of the manners ofArab _ladies_. though I have witnessed, at private festivities in Cairo,abominable scenes, of which ladies, screened behind lattices, werespectators. Can the same be said with respect to the previous carousal?This is a question which cannot be answered in a few words.The prohibition of wine, or, rather, of fermented and intoxicatingliquors, being one of the most remarkable and important points of theMohammadan religion, it might be imagined that the frequent stories inthis work, describing parties of Muslims as habitually indulging in theuse of forbidden beverages, are scandalous misrepresentations of Arabmanners and customs. There are, however, many similar anecdotesinterspersed in the works of Arab historians, which (though many of themare probably untrue in their application to particular individuals)could not have been offered to the public by such writers if they werenot of a nature consistent with the customs of a considerable class ofthe Arab nation.In investigating this subject, it is necessary, in the first place, tostate, that there is a kind of wine which Muslims are permitted todrink. It is properly called "nebeedh" (a name which is _now_ given to_prohibited_ kinds of wine), and is generally prepared by putting drygrapes, or dry dates, in water, to extract their sweetness, andsuffering the liquor to ferment slightly, until it acquires a littlesharpness or pungency. The Prophet himself was in the habit of drinkingwine of this kind, which was prepared for him in the first part of thenight. he drank it on the first and second days following. but if anyremained on the morning of the third day, he either gave it to hisservants or ordered it to be poured out upon the ground. Suchbeverages have, therefore, been drunk by the strictest of his followers.and Ibn Khaldoon strongly argues that nebeedh thus prepared from dateswas the kind of wine used by the Khaleefehs Haroon Er Rasheed andEl Ma moon, and several other eminent men, who have been commonlyaccused of habitually and publicly indulging in debauches of wineproperly so called. that is, of inebriating liquors.Nebeedh, prepared from raisins, is commonly sold in Arab towns, underthe name of "zebeeb," which signifies "raisins." This I have often drunkin Cairo. but never could perceive that it was in the slightest degreefermented. Other beverages, to which the name of "nebeedh" has beenapplied (though, like zebeeb, no longer called by that name), are alsosold in Arab towns. The most common of these is an infusion of licorice,and called by the name of the root, "'er soos." The nebeedh of dates issold in Cairo with the dates themselves in the liquor. and in likemanner is that of figs. Under the same appellation of "nebeedh" havebeen classed the different kinds of beer now commonly called "boozeh,"which have been mentioned in former pages. Opium, hemp,  c., are nowmore frequently used by the Muslims to induce intoxication orexhilaration. The young leaves of the hemp are generally used alone, ormixed with tobacco, for smoking. and the capsules, without the seeds,enter into the composition of several intoxicating conserves. Someremarks upon this subject have been inserted in a former note.By my own experience I am but little qualified to pronounce an opinionrespecting the prevalence of drinking wine among the Arabs. for, neverdrinking it myself, I had little opportunity of observing others do soduring my residence among Muslims. I judge, therefore, from theconversations and writings of Arabs, which justify me in asserting thatthe practice of drinking wine in private, and by select parties, is farfrom being uncommon among modern Muslims, though certainly more so thanit was before the introduction of tobacco into the East, in thebeginning of the seventeenth century of our era. for this herb, being ina slight degree exhilarating, and at the same time soothing, andunattended by the injurious effects that result from wine, is asufficient luxury to many who, without it, would have recourse tointoxicating beverages merely to pass away hours of idleness. The use ofcoffee, too, which became common in Egypt, Syria, and other countries,besides Arabia, a century earlier than tobacco, doubtless tended torender the habit of drinking wine less general. That it was adopted as asubstitute for wine appears even from its name, "ahweh," an old Arabicterm for wine. whence the Turkish "ahveh," the Italian "caffe," and our"coffee."There is an Arabic work of some celebrity, and not of small extent,entitled "albet el Kumeyt," apparently written shortly before theArabs were in possession of the first of the above mentioned substitutesfor wine, nearly the whole of which consists of anecdotes and versesrelating to the pleasures resulting from, or attendant upon, the use ofwine. a few pages at the end being devoted to the condemnation of thispractice, or, in other words, to prove the worthlessness of all thatprecedes. Of this work I possess a copy, a quarto volume of 464 pages. Ihave endeavoured to skim its cream. but found it impossible to do sowithout collecting, at the same time, a considerable quantity of mostfilthy scum. for it is characterised by wit and humour plentifullyinterlarded with the grossest and most revolting obscenity. yet itserves to confirm what has been above asserted. The mere existence ofsuch a work (and it is not the only one of the kind), written by a manof learning, and I believe a aee, a judge, or one holding thehonourable office of a guardian of religion and morality, written,too, evidently with pleasure, notwithstanding his assertion to thecontrary, is a strong argument in favour of the prevalence of thepractice which it paints in the most fascinating colours, and thencondemns. Its author terminates a chapter (the ninth), in which manywell known persons are mentioned as having been addicted to wine, bysaying, that the Khaleefehs, Emeers, and Wezeers, so addicted, are toonumerous to name in such a work. and by relating a story of a man whoplaced his own wife in pledge in the hands of a wine merchant, afterhaving expended in the purchase of the forbidden liquor all the propertythat he possessed. He excuses himself (in his preface) for writing thisbook, by saying that he had been ordered to do so by one whom he couldnot disobey. thus giving us a pretty strong proof that a great man inhis time was not ashamed of avowing his fondness for the prohibitedenjoyment. If, then, we admit the respectable authority of Ibn Khaldoon,and acquit of the vice of drunkenness those illustrious individualswhose characters he vindicates, we must still regard most of theanecdotes relating to the carousals of other persons as being notwithout foundation.One of my friends, who enjoys a high reputation, ranking among the mostdistinguished of the 'Ulama of Cairo, is well known to his intimateacquaintances as frequently indulging in the use of forbidden beverageswith a few select associates. I disturbed him and his companions by anevening visit on one of these occasions, and was kept waiting within thestreet door while the guests quickly removed everything that would giveme any indication of the manner in which they had been employed. for theannouncement of my (assumed) name, and their knowledge of my abstemiouscharacter, completely disconcerted them. I found them, however, in thebest humour. They had contrived, it appeared, to fill with wine a_china_ bottle, of the kind used at that season (winter) for water. andwhen any one of them asked the servant for water, this bottle wasbrought to him. but when I made the same demand, my host told me thatthere was a bottle of water on the sill of the window behind that partof the deewan upon which I was seated. The evening passed away verypleasantly, and I should not have known how unwelcome was my intrusionhad not one of the guests with whom I was intimately acquainted, inwalking part of the way home with me, explained to me the wholeoccurrence. There was with us a third person, who, thinking that myantipathy to wine was feigned, asked me to stop at his house on my way,and take a cup of "white coffee," by which he meant brandy.Another of my Muslim acquaintances in Cairo I frequently met at thehouse of a mutual friend, where, though he was in most respects verybigoted, he was in the habit of indulging in wine. For some time herefrained from this gratification when I was present. but at length mypresence became so irksome to him, that he ventured to enter into anargument with me on the subject of the prohibition. The only answer Icould give to his question, "Why is wine forbidden?" was in the wordsof the ur an, "Because it is the source of more evil than profit."This suited his purpose, as I intended it should. and he asked, "Whatevil results from it?" I answered, "Intoxication and quarrels, c." "Then," said he, "if a man take not enough to intoxicate him thereis no harm." and finding that I acquiesced by silence, he added, "I amin the habit of taking a little. but never enough to intoxicate. Boy,bring me a glass." He was the only Muslim, however, whom I have heardto argue against the absolute interdiction of inebriating liquors.Histories tell us that some of the early followers of the Prophetindulged in wine, holding the text above referred to as indecisive. andthat Moammad was at first doubtful upon this subject appears fromanother text, in which his followers were told not to come to prayerwhen they were drunk, until they should know what they would say.an injunction somewhat similar to one in the Bible. but whenfrequent and severe contentions resulted from their use of wine, thefollowing more decided condemnation of the practice was pronounced: "Oye who have become believers, verily wine and lots and images anddivining arrows are an abomination of the work of the Devil. therefore,avoid them, that ye may prosper." This law is absolute: itsviolation in the smallest degree is criminal. The punishment ordained bythe law for drinking (or, according to most doctors, for even tasting)wine or spirits, or inducing intoxication by any other means, onordinary occasions, is the infliction of eighty stripes in the case of afree man, and forty in that of a slave. but if the crime be openlycommitted in the course of any day of the month of Ramaan, when othersare fasting, the punishment prescribed is death!The prohibition of wine hindered many of the Prophet's contemporariesfrom embracing his religion. It is said that the famous poet El Aasha,who was one of them, delayed to join his cause on this account, untildeath prevented him. A person passing by his tomb (at Menfooah, inEl Yemameh), and observing that it was moist, asked the reason, and wasanswered, that the young men of the place, considering him still astheir cup companion, drank wine over his grave, and poured his cup uponit. Yet many of the most respectable of the pagan Arabs, likecertain of the Jews and early Christians, abstained totally from wine,from a feeling of its injurious effects upon morals, and, in theirclimate, upon health. or, more especially, from the fear of being led byit into the commission of foolish and degrading actions. Thus, eys theson of 'Aim, being one night overcome with wine, attempted to grasp themoon, and swore that he would not quit the spot where he stood until hehad laid hold of it: after leaping several times with the view of doingso, he fell flat upon his face. and when he recovered his senses, andwas acquainted with the cause of his face being bruised, he made asolemn vow to abstain from wine ever after. A similar feelingoperated upon many Muslims more than religious principle. The Khaleefeh'Abd El Melik Ibn Marwan took pleasure in the company of a slave namedNaeeb, and one day desired him to drink with him. The slave replied, "OPrince of the Faithful, I am not related to thee, nor have I anyauthority over thee, and I am of no rank or lineage: I am a black slave,and my wit and politeness have drawn me into thy favour: how then shallI take that which will plunder me of these two qualities. and by whatshall I then propitiate thee?" The Khaleefeh admired and excusedhim.It was the custom of many Muslim princes, as might be inferred from theabove anecdote, to admit the meanest of their dependants to participatein their unlawful carousals when they could have no better companions.but poets and musicians were their more common associates on theseoccasions. and these two classes, and especially the latter, are in thepresent day the most addicted to intoxicating liquors. Few modern Arabmusicians are so well contented with extraordinary payment and meresweet sherbet as with a moderate fee and plenty of wine and brandy. andmany of them deem even wine but a sorry beverage.It was usual with the host and guests at wine parties to wear dresses ofbright colours, red, yellow, and green. and to perfume their beardsand mustaches with civet, or to have rose water sprinkled upon them. andambergris or aloes wood, or some other odoriferous substance, placedupon burning coals in a censer, diffused a delicious fragrancethroughout the saloon of the revels.The wine, it appears, was rather thick. for it was necessary to strainit: it was probably sweet, and not strong. for it was drunk inlarge quantities. Frequently, perhaps, it was nebeedh of dry raisinskept longer than the law allows. It was usually kept in a large earthenvessel, called "denn," high, and small at the bottom, which was partlyimbedded in the earth to keep it upright. The name of this vessel is nowgiven to a cask of wood. but the kind above mentioned was of earth. forit was easily broken. A famous saint, Abu l oseyn En Nooree, seeing avessel on the Tigris containing thirty denns belonging to the KhaleefehEl Moataid, and being told that they contained wine, took a boat pole,and broke them all, excepting one. When brought before the Khaleefeh toanswer for this action, and asked by him, "Who made thee Motesib?"he boldly answered, "He who made thee Khaleefeh!" and waspardoned. Pitch was used by the Arabs, as it was by the Greeks andRomans, for the purpose of curing their wine. the interior of the dennbeing coated with it. A smaller kind of earthen jar, or amphora,and a bottle of leather, were also used. The winewas transferred for the table to glass jugs, or long spouted ewers.These and the cups were placed upon a round embroidered cloth spread onthe floor, or upon a round tray. The latter now is in general use, andis supported on a low stool, described in a former note, as being usedat ordinary meals. The guests sat around, reclining against pillars. orthey sat upon the deewan, and a page or slave handed the cup, having onhis right arm a richly embroidered napkin: the person after drinkingtook the end of this to wipe his lips. The cups are often described asholding a fluid pound, or little less than an English pint. and this isto be understood literally, or nearly so: they were commonly of cutglass. but some were of crystal, or silver, or gold. With these andthe ewers or jugs were placed several saucers, or small dishes, offresh and dried fruits. and fans and fly whisks, of the kindsdescribed on a former occasion, were used by the guests.The most common and esteemed fruits in the countries inhabited by theArabs may here be mentioned.The date deserves the first place. The Prophet's favourite fruitswere fresh dates and water melons. and he ate them bothtogether. "Honour," said he, "your paternal aunt, the date palm.for she was created of the earth of which Adam was formed." It issaid that God hath given this tree as a peculiar favour to the Muslims.that he hath decreed all the date palms in the world to them, and theyhave accordingly conquered every country in which these trees are found.and all are said to have derived their origin from the Hejaz. Thepalm tree has several well known properties that render it an emblem ofa human being. among which are these. that if the head be cut off, thetree dies. and if a branch be cut off, another does not grow in itsplace. Dates are preserved in a moist state by being merely pressedtogether in a basket or skin, and thus prepared are called "'ajweh."There are many varieties of this fruit. The pith or heart of thepalm is esteemed for its delicate flavour.The water melon, from what has been said of it above, ought to beranked next. and it really merits this distinction. "Whoso eateth," saidthe Prophet, "a mouthful of water melon, God writeth for him a thousandgood works, and cancelleth a thousand evil works, and raiseth him athousand degrees. for it came from Paradise." and again, "Thewater melon is food and drink, acid and alkali, and a support of life," c. The varieties of this fruit are very numerous.The banana is a delicious fruit. The Prophet pronounced thebanana tree to be the only thing on earth that resembles a thing inParadise. because it bears fruit both in winter and summer.The pomegranate is another celebrated fruit. Every pomegranate,according to the Prophet, contains a fecundating seed fromParadise.The other most common and esteemed fruits are the following: the apple,pear, quince, apricot, peach, fig, sycamore fig, grape, lote, jujube,plum, walnut, almond, hazel nut, pistachio nut, orange, Seville orange,lime and lemon, citron, mulberry, olive, and sugar cane.Of a selection of these fruits consists the dessert which accompaniesthe wine. but the table is not complete without a bunch or two offlowers placed in the midst.Though the Arabs are far from being remarkable for exhibiting taste inthe planning of their gardens, they are passionately fond of flowers,and especially of the rose. The Khaleefeh El Mutawekkilmonopolized roses for his own enjoyment. saying, "I am the King ofSulans, and the rose is the king of sweet scented flowers. thereforeeach of us is most worthy of the other for a companion." The rose, inhis time, was seen nowhere but in his palace: during the season of thisflower he wore rose coloured clothes. and his carpets,  c., weresprinkled with rose water. A similar passion for the rose is saidto have distinguished a weaver, in the reign of El Ma moon. He wasconstantly employed at his loom every day of the year, even during thecongregational prayers of Friday, excepting in the rose season, when heabandoned his work, and gave himself up to the enjoyment of wine, earlyin the morning and late in the evening, loudly proclaiming his revels bysinging, "The season has become pleasant! The time of the rose has come!Take your morning potations, as long as the rose has blossomsand flowers!"When he resumed his work, he made it known by singing aloud, "If my Lord prolong my life until the rose season, I will takeagain my morning potations: but if I die before it, alas!for the loss of the rose and wine!"I implore the God of the supreme throne, whose glory be extolled,that my heart may continually enjoy the evening potationsto the day of resurrection." The Khaleefeh was so amused with the humour of this man, that hegranted him an annual pension of ten thousand dirhems to enable him toenjoy himself amply on these occasions. Another anecdote may beadded to shew the estimation of the rose in the mind of an Arab. It issaid that Row Ibn atim, the governor of the province of NorthernAfrica, was sitting one day, with a female slave, in an apartment of hispalace, when a eunuch brought him a jar full of red and white roses,which a man had offered as a present. He ordered the eunuch to fill thejar with silver in return. but his concubine said, "O my lord, thou hastnot acted equitably towards the man. for his present to thee is of twocolours, red and white." The Emeer replied, "Thou hast said truly." andgave orders to fill the jar for him with silver and gold (dirhems anddeenars) intermixed. Some persons preserve roses during the wholeof the year, in the following manner. They take a number of rose buds,and fill with them a new earthen jar, and, after closing its mouth withmud, so as to render it impervious to the air, bury it in the earth.Whenever they want a few roses, they take out some of these buds, whichthey find unaltered, sprinkle a little water upon them, and leave themfor a short time in the air, when they open, and appear as if justgathered. The rose is even a subject of miracles. It is related byIbn uteybeh, that there grows in India a kind of rose upon the leavesof which is inscribed, "There is no deity but God." But I find amore particular account of this miraculous rose. A person, who professedto have seen it, said, "I went into India, and I saw, at one of itstowns, a large rose, sweet scented, upon which was inscribed, in whitecharacters, 'There is no deity but God. Moammad is God's apostle:Aboo Bekr is the very veracious: 'Omar is the discriminator.' and Idoubted of this, whether it had been done by art. so I took one of theblossoms not yet opened, and in it was the same inscription. and therewere many of the same kind there. The people of that place worshippedstones, and knew not God, to whom be ascribed might andglory." Roses are announced for sale in the streets of Cairo bythe cry of "The rose was a thorn: from the sweat of the Prophet itblossomed!" in allusion to a miracle recorded of Moammad. "When I wastaken up into heaven," said the Prophet, "some of my sweat fell upon theearth, and from it sprang the rose. and whoever would smell my scent,let him smell the rose." In another tradition it is said, "The whiterose was created from my sweat on the night of the Mearaj. and thered rose, from the sweat of Jebraeel. and the yellow rose, from thesweat of El Bura." The Persians take especial delight in roses.sometimes spreading them as carpets or beds on which to sit or reclinein their revellings.But there is a flower pronounced more excellent than the rose. that ofthe Egyptian privet, or Lawsonia inermis. Moammad said, "The chiefof the sweet scented flowers of this world and of the next is thefaghiyeh." and this was his favourite flower. I approve of histaste. for this flower, which grows in clusters somewhat like those ofthe lilac, has a most delicious fragrance. But, on account ofdiscrepancies in different traditions, a Muslim may, with a clearconscience, prefer either of the two flowers next mentioned.The Prophet said of the violet, "The excellence of the extract ofviolets, above all other extracts, is as the excellence of me above allthe rest of the creation: it is cold in summer and hot in winter:" and,in another tradition, "The excellence of the violet is as the excellenceof El Islam above all other religions." A delicious sherbet is madeof a conserve of sugar and violet flowers.The myrtle is the rival of the violet. "Adam," said the Prophet,"fell down from Paradise with three things. the myrtle, which is thechief of sweet scented flowers in this world. an ear of wheat, which isthe chief of all kinds of food in this world. and pressed dates, whichare the chief of the fruits of this world."The anemone was monopolized for his own enjoyment by NoamanIbn El Mundhir (King of El eereh, and contemporary of Moammad), as therose was afterwards by El Mutawekkil.Another flower much admired and celebrated in the East is thegilliflower. There are three principal kinds. the most esteemed isthe yellow, or golden coloured, which has a delicious scent both bynight and day. the next, the purple, and other dark kinds, which have ascent only in the night. the least esteemed, the white, which has noscent. The yellow gilliflower is an emblem of a neglected lover.The narcissus is very highly esteemed. Galen says, "He who has twocakes of bread, let him dispose of one of them for some flowers of thenarcissus. for bread is the food of the body, and the narcissus is thefood of the soul." Hippocrates, too, gave a similar opinion.The following flowers complete the list of those celebrated as mostappropriate to add to the delights of wine: the jasmine, eglantine,Seville orange flower, lily, sweet basil, wild thyme, buphthalmum,chamomile, nenuphar, lotus, pomegranate flower, poppy, ketmia, crocus orsaffron, safflower, flax, the blossoms of different kinds of bean, andthose of the almond.A sprig of Oriental willow adds much to the charms of a bunch offlowers, being the favourite symbol of a graceful female.But I have not yet mentioned all that contributes to the pleasures of anEastern carousal. For the juice of the grape is not fully relishedwithout melodious sounds. "Wine is as the body. music, as the soul. andjoy is their offspring." All the five senses should be gratified.For this reason, an Arab toper, who had nothing, it appears, but wine toenjoy, exclaimed, "Ho! give me wine to drink. and tell me, 'This is wine.'"For, on drinking, his sight and smell and taste and touch would all beaffected. but it was desirable that his hearing should also bepleased.Music was condemned by the Prophet almost as severely as wine. "Singingand hearing songs," said he, "cause hypocrisy to grow in the heart, likeas water promoteth the growth of corn:" and musical instruments hedeclared to be among the most powerful means by which the Devil seducesman. An instrument of music is the Devil's mueddin, serving to call mento his worship, as stated in a former note. Of the hypocrisy of thoseattached to music, the following anecdote presents an instance: Adrunken young man with a lute in his hand was brought one night beforethe Khaleefeh 'Abd El Melik the son of Marwan, who, pointing to theinstrument, asked what it was, and what was its use. The youth made noanswer. so he asked those around him. but they also remained silent,till one, more bold than the rest, said, "O Prince of the Faithful,this is a lute: it is made by taking some wood of the pistachio tree,and cutting it into thin pieces, and glueing these together, and thenattaching over them these chords, which, when a beautiful girl touchesthem, send forth sounds more pleasant than those of rain falling upon adesert land. and my wife is separated from me by a triple divorce ifevery one in this council is not acquainted with it, and doth not knowit as well as I do, and thou the first of them, O Prince of theFaithful." The Khaleefeh laughed, and ordered that the young man shouldbe discharged.The latter saying of the Prophet, respecting the Devil, suggests to methe insertion of another anecdote, related of himself by IbraheemEl Moilee, the father of Is a. both of whom were very celebratedmusicians. I give a translation of it somewhat abridged. "I askedEr Rasheed," says Ibraheem, "to grant me permission to spend a day athome with my female slaves and brothers. and he gave me two thousanddeenars, and appointed the next Saturday for this purpose. I caused themeats and wine and other necessaries to be prepared, and ordered thechamberlain to close the door, and admit no one: but while I wassitting, with my attendants standing in the form of a curved line beforeme, there entered, and approached me, a sheykh, reverend and dignifiedand comely in appearance, wearing short khuffs, and two soft gowns,with a alensuweh upon his head, and in his hand a silver headedstaff. and sweet odours were diffused from his clothes. I was enragedwith the chamberlain for admitting him. but on his saluting me in a verycourteous manner, I returned his salutation, and desired him to sitdown. He then began to repeat to me stories, tales of war, and poetry.so that my anger was appeased, and it appeared to me that my servantshad not presumed to admit him until acquainted with his politeness andcourteousness. I therefore said to him, 'Hast thou any inclination formeat?' He answered, 'I have no want of it.' 'And the wine?' said I. Hereplied, 'Yes.' So I drank a large cupful, and he did the same, and thensaid to me, 'O Ibraheem, wilt thou let us hear some specimen of thy artin which thou hast excelled the people of thy profession?' I was angryat his words. but I made light of the matter, and, having taken the luteand tuned it, I played and sang. whereupon he said, 'Thou hast performedwell, O Ibraheem.' I became more enraged, and said within myself, 'He isnot content with coming hither without permission, and asking me tosing, but he calls me by my name, and proves himself unworthy of myconversation.' He then said, 'Wilt thou let us hear more? If so, we willrequite thee.' And I took the lute, and sang, using my utmost care, onaccount of his saying, 'we will requite thee.' He was moved withdelight, and said, 'Thou hast performed well, O my masterIbraheem:' adding, 'Wilt thou permit thy slave to sing?' I answered,'As thou pleasest:' but thinking lightly of his sense to sing after me.He took the lute, and tuned it. and, by Allah! I imagined that the lutespoke in his hands with an eloquent Arab tongue. He proceeded to singsome verses commencing, 'My heart is wounded! Who will give me, for it, a heart withouta wound?'The narrator continues by saying, that he was struck dumb and motionlesswith ecstasy. and that the strange sheykh, after having played and sungagain, and taught him an enchanting air (with which he afterwardsenraptured his patron, the Khaleefeh), vanished. Ibraheem, in alarm,seized his sword. and was the more amazed when he found that the porterhad not seen the stranger enter or leave the house. but he heard hisvoice again, outside, telling him that he was Aboo Murrah (theDevil). Two other anecdotes of a similar kind are related in thework from which the above is taken.Ibraheem El Moilee, his son Is a, and Mukhari (a pupil of theformer), were especially celebrated among the Arab musicians, and amongthe distinguished men of the reign of Haroon Er Rasheed. Is aEl Moilee relates, of his father Ibraheem, that when Er Rasheed tookhim into his service, he gave him a hundred and fifty thousand dirhems,and allotted him a monthly pension of ten thousand dirhems, besidesoccasional presents (one of which is mentioned as amounting to a hundredthousand dirhems for a single song), and the produce of his (Ibraheem's)farms: he had food constantly prepared for him. three sheep every dayfor his kitchen, besides birds. three thousand dirhems were allowed himfor fruits, perfumes,  c., every month, and a thousand dirhems for hisclothing. "and with all this," says his son, "he died without leavingmore than three thousand deenars, a sum not equal to his debts, which Ipaid after his death." Ibraheem was of Persian origin, and of ahigh family. He was commonly called the Nedeem (or cup companion), beingEr Rasheed's favourite companion at the wine table. and his son, whoenjoyed the like distinction with El Ma moon, received the sameappellation, as well as that of "Son of the Nedeem." Ibraheem was themost famous musician of his time, at least till his son attainedcelebrity.Is a El Moilee was especially famous as a musician. but he was also agood poet, accomplished in general literature, and endowed with greatwit. He was honoured above all other persons in the pay of El Ma moon,and enjoyed a long life. but for many years before his death he wasblind.Mukhari appears to have rivalled his master Ibraheem. The latter, herelates, took him to perform before Er Rasheed, who used to have acurtain suspended between him and the musicians. "Others," he says,"sang, and he was unmoved. but when I sang, he came forth from behindthe curtain, and exclaimed, 'Young man, hither!' and he seated me uponthe sereerThe following anecdote (which I abridge a little in translation) shewshis excellence in the art which he professed, and the effect of melodyon an Arab: "After drinking with the Khaleefeh a whole night, Iasked his permission," says he, "to take the air in the Ruafeh,which he granted. and while I was walking there, I saw a damsel whoappeared as if the rising sun beamed from her face. She had a basket,and I followed her. She stopped at a fruiterer's, and bought some fruit.and observing that I was following her, she looked back and abused meseveral times. but still I followed her until she arrived at a greatdoor, after having filled her basket with fruits and flowers and similarthings. When she had entered, and the door was closed behind her, I satdown opposite to it, deprived of my reason by her beauty. and knew thatthere must be in the house a wine party. The sun went down upon me whileI sat there. and at length there came two handsome young men on asses,and they knocked at the door, and when they were admitted I entered withthem. the master of the house thinking that I was their companion, andthey imagining that I was one of his friends. A repast was brought, andwe ate, and washed our hands, and were perfumed. The master of the housethen said to the two young men, 'Have ye any desire that I should callsuch a one?' (mentioning a female name). They answered, 'If thou wiltgrant us the favour, well:' so he called for her, and she came, and lo,she was the maiden whom I had seen before, and who had abused me. Aservant maid preceded her, bearing her lute, which she placed in herlap. Wine was then brought, and she sang while we drank, and shook withdelight. 'Whose air is that?' they asked. She answered, 'SeedeeMukhari's.' She then sang another air, which, also, she said was mine.while they drank by pints. she looking aside and doubtfully at me untilI lost my patience, and called out to her to do her best: but inattempting to do so, singing a third air, she overstrained her voice,and I said, 'Thou hast made a mistake:' upon which she threw the lutefrom her lap, in anger, so that she nearly broke it. saying, 'Take itthyself, and let us hear thee.' I answered, 'Well.' and, having taken itand tuned it perfectly, sang the first of the airs which she had sungbefore me. whereupon all of them sprang upon their feet, and kissed myhead. I then sang the second air, and the third. and their reason almostfled, from ecstasy. The master of the house, after asking his guests,and being told by them that they knew me not, came to me, and, kissingmy hand, said, 'By Allah, my master, who art thou?' I answered, 'ByAllah, I am the singer Mukhari.' 'And for what purpose,' said he,kissing both my hands, 'camest thou hither?' I replied, 'As aspunger.' and related what had happened with respect to the maiden:whereupon he looked towards his two companions, and said to them, 'Tellme, by Allah, do ye not know that I gave for that girl thirty thousanddirhems, and have refused to sell her?' They answered, 'It is so.' Thensaid he, 'I take you as witnesses that I have given her to him.' 'Andwe,' said the two friends, 'will pay thee two thirds of her price.' Sohe put me in possession of the girl, and in the evening, when Ideparted, he presented me also with rich dresses and other gifts, withall of which I went away. and as I passed the places where the maidenhad abused me, I said to her, 'Repeat thy words to me.' but she couldnot, for shame. Holding the girl's hand, I went with her immediately tothe Khaleefeh, whom I found in anger at my long absence. but when Irelated my story to him he was surprised, and laughed, and ordered thatthe master of the house and his two friends should be brought beforehim, that he might requite them: to the former he gave forty thousanddirhems. to each of his two friends, thirty thousand. and to me, ahundred thousand. and I kissed his feet, and departed."It is particularly necessary for the Arab musician, that he have aretentive memory, well stocked with choice pieces of poetry, and withfacetious or pleasant anecdotes, interspersed with songs. and that hehave a ready wit, aided by dramatic talent, to employ these materialswith good effect. If, to such qualifications, he adds fair attainmentsin the difficult rules of grammar, a degree of eloquence, comic humour,and good temper, and is not surpassed by many in his art, he is sure tobe a general favourite. Very few Muslims of the higher classes havecondescended to study music, because they would have been despised bytheir inferiors for doing so. or because they themselves have despisedor condemned the art. Ibraheem, the son of the Khaleefeh El Mahdee, andcompetitor of El Ma moon, was a remarkable exception: he is said to havebeen an excellent musician, and a good singer.In the houses of the wealthy, the vocal and instrumental performers wereusually (as is the case in many houses in the present age) domesticfemale slaves, well instructed in their art by hired male or femaleprofessors. In the work before us, these slaves are commonly describedas standing or sitting unveiled in the presence of male guests. but,from several descriptions of musical entertainments that I have met within Arabic works, it appears that, according to the more approved customin respectable society, they were concealed on such occasions behind acurtain, which generally closed the front of an elevated recess. In allthe houses of wealthy Arabs that I have entered, one or each of thelarger saloons has an elevated closet, the front of which is closed by ascreen of wooden lattice work, to serve as an orchestra for the domesticor hired female singers and instrumental performers. Of the hiredperformers, any further mention is not here required. but of the slavesand free ladies who supplied their place, a few words must be added, asvery necessary to illustrate the preceding and many other tales in thiswork.To a person acquainted with modern Arabian manners, it must appearinconsistent with truth to describe such females as exposing theirfaces before strange men, unless he can discover in sober histories someevidence of their having been less strict in this respect than thegenerality of Arab females at the present period. I find, however, aremarkable proof that such was the case in the latter part of the ninthcentury of the Flight, and the beginning of the tenth: that is, aboutthe end of the fifteenth century of our era. The famous historianEs Suyooee, who flourished at this period, in his preface to a curiouswork on wedlock, written to correct the corrupt manners of his age,says, "Seeing that the women of this time deck themselves with theattire of prostitutes, and walk in the soos (or market streets), likefemale warriours against the religion, and uncover their faces and handsbefore men, to incline hearts to them by evil suggestions, andplay at feasts with young men, thereby meriting the anger of theCompassionate , and go forth to the public baths andassemblies, with various kinds of ornaments and perfumes, and withconceited gait. for the which they shall be congregated in Hell fire,for opposing the good, and on account of this their affected gait, whileto their husbands they are disobedient, behaving to them in the reversemanner, excepting when they fear to abridge their liberty of goingabroad by such conduct. for they are like swine and apes in theirinterior nature, though like daughters of Adam in their exteriorappearance. especially the women of this age. not advising theirhusbands in matters of religion, but the latter erring in permittingthem to go out to every assembly. sisters of devils and demons,  c. c.... I have undertaken the composition of this volume." A moreconvincing testimony than this, I think, cannot be required.The lute (el 'ood) is the only instrument that is generally described asused at the entertainments which we have been considering. Engravings ofthis and other musical instruments are given in my work on the ModernEgyptians. The Arab viol (called rabab) was commonly used by inferiorperformers. (See also Note 26, below.)The Arab music is generally of a soft and plaintive character, andparticularly that of the most refined description, which isdistinguished by a remarkable peculiarity, the division of tones intothirds. The singer aims at distinct enunciation of the words, for thisis justly admired. and delights in a trilling style. The airs of songsare commonly very short and simple, adapted to a single verse, or evento a single hemistich. but in the instrumental music there is morevariety. 23. This is often said to a person whose presence is disagreeableto his companions. 24. _On the_ alenderees. In the old translation, these threestrangers are called "Calenders." that is, "alenderees:" but in theCalcutta edition of the first two hundred nights, and the edition ofBreslau, they are designated as "arendelees," "miserable or ridiculousbeggars." and in that of Cairo, the term applied to them is "a'aleek,"or, simply, "paupers," or "mendicants." Some may suppose the rightreading to be "alenderees." for it was a custom of this order ofDarweeshes to shave their beards: they were forbidden to do so in theyear of the Flight 761, by the Sulan of Egypt (El Melik en NairEl asan). but whether they afterwards reverted to this habit, I do notknow. The order of the alenderees, however, was not founded until aboutthe commencement of the fifth century of the Flight, a period longposterior to that to which the tale relates. 25. In the edition of Cairo, they are said to have arrived fromGreece. 26. _On the Persian Harp._ This instrument is called in Arabic"junk," from the Persian "chang." It has almost fallen into disuse, andI have never seen it: I am enabled, however, to give two sketches of itsform through the kindness of the Right Honourable Sir GoreOuseley, who has favoured me with drawings made from two of the mostsatisfactory representations of it in his rich collection of OrientalMSS.. the first, about 350 years old. the second 410. The number ofstrings, he informs me, vary from 20 to 27. 27. _On the Title and Office of_ Khaleefeh. As most of our bestauthors on Oriental subjects have for some years past deviated from ourold general mode of writing this title, substituting (for "Caliph")"Khalif," "Khalifah,"  c., I have taken the same liberty. It cannot becorrectly written, at the same time congenially with our language andwith its orthography in Arabic characters, otherwise than "Khaleefeh" or"Khaleefah." and of these two modes I adopt the one which agrees withthe manner in which the title is most generally pronounced by the Arabs.The meaning of this title is "Successor," or "Vicar." and it wasoriginally given to the universal sovereigns of the Muslim Arabs, assignifying "Successor of the Prophet." but afterwards, in a more exaltedsense, as "Vicar of God:" the Khaleefeh being the head of the religionas well as the supreme political governor, or at least arrogating tohimself the right to possess such supremacy, throughout the whole Muslimworld. (The last of the Khaleefehs died in Egypt shortly after theTurkish conquest of that country, or in the year of the Flight, 950.After the overthrow of the house of El 'Abbas by Hulagu, certain of itsmembers obtained an asylum at the court of the Memlook Sulans, andcontinued the line of the Khaleefehs, with spiritual, but no temporal,authority until it ceased in the person of El Mutawekkil, who delegatedhis office to the Sulan Seleem I.. it is consequently held by theSulan of Turkey. The Emperors of Morocco, being descendants of theProphet, also claim and receive from their subjects the title ofKhaleefeh. 28. The stories in which this justly celebrated man is mentionedwill, I think, be more agreeable to those readers who are unacquaintedwith his history, of which, therefore, I shall say nothing. 29. Mesroor was a black eunuch, and a favourite servant ofEr Rasheed. The name signifies "happy." 30. "abareeyeh" is the modern name for Tiberias. 31. _Description_ of Khans, or Wekalehs. A Khan is a buildingchiefly designed for the accommodation of merchants, and for thereception of their goods. In Egypt, a building of this kind is generallycalled a Wekaleh. I have described it, in a former work, as surroundinga square or oblong court, and having, on the ground floor, vaultedmagazines for merchandise, which face the court, and are sometimes usedas shops. Above these are generally lodgings, which are entered from agallery extending along each of the four sides of the court. or, in theplace of these lodgings, there are other magazines: and in many khans orwekalehs which have apartments designed as lodgings, these apartmentsare used as magazines. In general, the building has only one commonentrance. the door of which is closed at night, and kept by a porter. 32. It is customary for a guest or visiter to ask permission of thehost, or master of the house, before taking his departure. A common formof speech used on this occasion is, "With your permission, I rise." 33. Many Muslims perform the pilgrimage with the view of expiatingtheir offences, and, at the Kaabeh, or at the tomb of the Prophet, makea vow to abstain from any glaring infringement of the law of which theymay before have been guilty. 34. I learn, from a marginal note in my copy of the original, bythe sheykh Moammad E Tanawee, that these verses are the compositionof Ibn Sahl El Ishbee lee. Three concluding verses of the same ode, anda second poetical quotation immediately following, I have passed over. 35. In the original there are some errors in this part of thestory, which the sequel requires me to correct. The cateress isdescribed as having sung three successive songs, accompanying them withher lute. After the first song, the mistress of the house is said tohave been affected in the manner described in the translation, and tohave exposed to view the marks of beating. The second lady (namely, theportress) is represented as similarly excited by the second song. andthe third lady (the cateress herself), by the third song. The last alsois said to have exhibited upon her person those marks which, as thesequel shews, were borne by the second. 36. The "mira'ah," vulgarly called "mara'ah," is a portion of thethicker end of a palm branch stripped of the leaves. It is often used tobeat a person in sport. but in this case, two or three splits areusually made in the thicker part of it, to increase the sound of theblows. 37. In the original, "the portress." See Note 35, above. 38. Perhaps it is needless to explain that the wish here expressed,for a protractive trial on the day of judgment, is occasioned by thelonging for reunion, and the fear of separation after that day. TheMuslims usually pray for an easy (and, consequently, a short) reckoning. 39. I have omitted the third song of the cateress, and thedescription of its effects, mentioned in Note 35. 40. See Note 47 to Chapter II. 41. It seems to be implied that the lady discovered her guests,notwithstanding their disguise, to be persons of rank. 42. I read "fuarau aajam" for "fuarau l hojjam:" the former,carelessly written (in Arabic characters), might easily be mistaken forthe latter. 43. This phrase is used to signify "Recover thy senses." alludingto a person's drawing his hand over his head or face after a sleep orfit. 44. The burial grounds of Eastern cities are generally soextensive, that, with the varied structures which they contain, they mayaptly be called "Cities of the Dead." It was with difficulty that Irecognised the tomb of the lamented Burckhardt, in the great cemetery onthe north of Cairo, even after I had carefully noticed its place on aformer visit. 45. I have ventured to make a slight alteration here. but it is onewhich does not in the least affect the consistency of the tale. Marriagewith a foster sister is as expressly forbidden by the Mohammadan law asthat with a natural sister. 46. "The Truth" is one of the ninety nine names or epithets of God. 47. Many an Arab would rather risk the loss of his head than partwith his beard. for the latter is regarded by almost all Muslims with asuperstitious respect. and to shave it off, at least after it has beensuffered to grow for many days, they consider as sinful: this, however,is sometimes done by religious mendicants, as it is also by some ofthose persons who seek, or enjoy, the reputation of sanctity, and whoare, or pretend to be, insane. 48. By "the seven readings," we are to understand seven slightlydifferent modes of reading the ur an, seldom differing essentially asto the sense. 49. Astrology (not astronomy) is here meant. Though a forbiddenscience, it is studied by many Muslims. 50. A misplaced diacritical point occasions a wrong reading here,in the original, which I have corrected. 51. The Mohammadan law requires that every man be acquainted withsome art or occupation by which he may, in case of necessity, at leastbe able to obtain the means of supporting himself and such of his familyas are dependant upon him, and of fulfilling all his religious as wellas moral duties. Hence it has been a common custom of Muslim princes, inevery age, to learn some useful art. and many of them have distinguishedthemselves by displaying exquisite skill in the work of their hands, andespecially in caligraphy, of which the Orientals in general are greatadmirers. 52. The 'Efreet (as we are told in some editions of the original)had taken this lady against the consent of his family, and thereforecould not more frequently visit her. 53. The term "ubbeh" is often applied to a closet or small chamberadjoining a saloon. and in this sense it appears to be here used. 54. _On Sherbets._ The Arabs have various kinds of sherbets, orsweet drinks. the most common of which is merely sugar and water, madevery sweet. The most esteemed kind is prepared from a hard conserve ofviolets, made by pounding violet flowers, and then boiling them withsugar. Other kinds are prepared from conserves of fruits,  c. Thesherbet is served in covered glass cups, containing from two thirds tothree quarters of an English pint. the same which I have described in aformer note as used for wine. These are placed on a round tray, andcovered with a round piece of embroidered silk, or cloth of gold. and onthe right arm of the person who presents the sherbet, is hung a longnapkin with a deep embroidered border of gold and coloured silks at eachend, which is ostensibly offered for the purpose of wiping the lipsafter drinking, though the lips are scarcely touched with it. 55. The Arabs are very fond of having their feet, and especiallythe soles, slowly rubbed with the hand. and this operation, which is oneof the services commonly required of a wife or female slave, is a usualmode of waking a person. 56. Here, and again in the same and a subsequent sentence, for"kheiyaeen," I read "aabeen." In the Breslau edition, "khaabeen"is put for the latter. The right reading is obvious. 57. Falsehood was _commended_ by the Prophet when it tended toreconcile persons at enmity with each other, and when practised in orderto please one's wife, or to obtain any advantage in a war with infidels,though strongly reprobated in other cases. 58. Four verses here inserted in the original appear to me to be acorruption of a couplet which better expresses the same meaning, andwhich I have therefore translated in the place of the former. As thelines to which I allude are particularly pleasing, I may perhaps beexcused if I here introduce the original words, which are as follow: "Isharatuna fi l obbi remzu 'oyoonina: wa kullu lebeebinbi l isharati yefhamu,awajibuna tei l awaija beynena: fa nanu sukootun wa l hawayetekellemu." 59. This is not meant to disparage the individual lady herementioned, but is a saying of the Prophet applied to the sex in general. 60. In the edition of Cairo, this story is omitted. I translate itfrom the Calcutta edition of the first two hundred nights. 61. "Faeer" (which signifies "poor," and is particularly used inthe sense of "poor in the sight of God," or rather, "in need of themercy of God") is an appellation commonly given to poor persons whoespecially occupy themselves in religious exercises. 62. The performances called "zikrs" will be briefly describedtowards the close of the next note. 63. _On Muslin Saints, or Devotees._ The tale of the EnviedSheykh, and several other stories in this work, require that the readershould be acquainted with the remarkable opinions which the Arabsentertain with respect to the offices and supernatural powers of theirsaints. Such matters form an important part of the mysteries of theDarweeshes, and are but imperfectly known to the generality of Muslims.The distinguished individuals above mentioned are known by the commonappellation of "Welees," or particular favourites of God. The moreeminent among them compose a mysterious hierarchical body, whosegovernment respects the whole human race, infidels as well as believers.but whose power is often exercised in such a manner that the subjectsinfluenced by it know not from what person or persons its effectsproceed. The general governor or corypheus of these holy beings iscommonly called the "ub," which literally signifies a "pole," or an"axis," and is metaphorically used to signify a "chief," either in acivil or political, or in a spiritual sense. The ub of the saints isdistinguished by other appellations: he is called "ub el Ghos," or"   el Ghoth" ("the ub of Invocation for Help"),  c.. and simply"El Ghos." The orders under the rule of this chief are called"'Omud (or Owtad), Akhyar, Abdal, Nujaba, and Nuaba:" I name themaccording to their precedence. Perhaps to these should be added aninferior order called "A ab ed Darak," which is said to mean"Watchmen," or "Overseers." The members are not known as such to theirinferior, unenlightened fellow creatures. and are often invisible tothem. This is more frequently the case with the ub, who, thoughgenerally stationed at Mekkeh, on the roof of the Kaabeh, is nevervisible there, nor at any of his other favourite stations or places ofresort. yet his voice is often heard at these places. Whenever he andthe saints under his authority mingle among ordinary men, they are notdistinguished by a dignified appearance, but are always humbly clad.These, and even inferior saints, are said to perform astonishingmiracles, such as flying in the air, passing unhurt through fire,swallowing fire, glass,  c., walking upon water, transporting themselvesin a moment of time to immense distances, and supplying themselves andothers with food in desert places. Their supernatural power they aresupposed to obtain by a life of the most exalted piety, and especiallyby constant self denial, accompanied with the most implicit relianceupon God. by the services of good genii. and, as many believe, by theknowledge and utterance of "the most great name" of God. A miracleperformed by a saint is distinguished by the term "karameh" from oneperformed by a prophet, which is called "moajizeh."El Khir and Ilyas (or Elias), of whom I have before had occasion tospeak, are both believed to have been ubs, and the latter is called inthe ur an an apostle. but it is disputed whether the former was aprophet or merely a welee. Both are said to have drunk of the Fountainof Life, and to be in consequence still living. and Ilyas is commonlybelieved to invest the successive ubs. The similarity of the miraclesascribed to the ubs and those performed by Elias or Elijah I haveremarked in a former work. Another miracle, reminding us of the mantleof Elijah in the hands of his successor, may here be mentioned. A saintwho was the ub of his time, dying at Toonis (or Tunis), left hisclothes in trust to his attendant, Moammad El Ashwam, a native of theneighbouring regency of Tripoli (now called arabulus), who desired tosell these relics, but was counselled to retain them, and accordingly,though high prices were bidden for them, made them his own by purchase.As soon as they became his property, he was affected, we are told, witha divine ecstasy, and endowed with miraculous powers.Innumerable miracles are related to have been performed by Muslimsaints, and large volumes are filled with the histories of theirwonderful lives. The author of the work from which the above story istaken, mentions, as a fact to be relied on, in an account of one of hisancestors, that, his lamp happening to go out one night while he wasreading alone in the riwa of the Jabart (of which he was the sheykh),in the great mosque El Azhar, the forefinger of his right hand emitted alight which enabled him to continue his reading until his naeeb hadtrimmed and lighted another lamp.From many stories of a similar kind that I have read, I select thefollowing as a fair specimen: it is related by a very celebrated saint,Ibraheem El Khowwa. "I entered the desert (on pilgrimage to Mekkehfrom El 'Era), and there joined me a man having a belt round his waist,and I said, 'Who art thou?' He answered, 'A Christian. and I desire thycompany.' We walked together for seven days, eating nothing. after whichhe said to me, 'O monk of the Muslims, produce what thou hast in the wayof refreshment. for we are hungry:' so I said, 'O my God, disgrace menot before this infidel:' and lo, a tray, upon which were bread andbroiled meat and fresh dates and a mug of water. We ate, and continuedour journey seven days more. and I then said to him, 'O monk of theChristians, produce what thou hast in the way of refreshment. for theturn is come to thee:' whereupon he leaned upon his staff. and prayed.and lo, two trays, containing double that which was on my tray. I wasconfounded, and refused to eat: he urged me, saying, 'Eat.' but I did itnot. Then said he, 'Be glad. for I give thee two pieces of good news:one of them is, that I testify that there is no deity but God, and thatMoammad is God's Apostle: the other, that I said, O God, if there beworth in this servant, supply me with two trays: so this is through thyblessing.' We ate, and the man put on the dress of pilgrimage, and soentered Mekkeh, where he remained with me a year as a student. afterwhich he died, and I buried him in El Maala." "And God,"says the author from whom I take this story, "is all knowing:" _i.e._ Healone knoweth whether it be strictly true: but this is often added tothe narration of traditions resting upon high authority. The saintabove mentioned was called "El Khowwa" (or the maker of palm leafbaskets,  c.) from the following circumstance, related by himself. "Iused," said he, "to go out of the town and sit by a river onthe banks of which was abundance of palm leaves. and it occurred to mymind to make every day five baskets , and to throw them intothe river, for my amusement, as if I were obliged to do so. My time wasso passed for many days: at length, one day, I thought I would walkafter the baskets, and see whither they had gone: so I proceeded a whilealong the bank of the river, and found an old woman sitting sorrowful.On that day I had made nothing. I said to her, 'Wherefore do I see theesorrowful?' She answered, 'I am a widow: my husband died leaving fivedaughters, and nothing to maintain them. and it is my custom to repairevery day to this river, and there come to me, upon the surface of thewater, five baskets, which I sell, and by means of them I procure food.but to day they have not come, and I know not what to do.' Upon hearingthis, I raised my head towards heaven, and said, 'O my God, had I knownthat I had more than five children to maintain, I had laboured morediligently!'" He then took the old woman to his house, and gave hermoney and flour, and said to her, "Whenever thou wantest anything, comehither and take what may suffice you."An irresistible influence has often been exercised over the minds ofprinces and other great men by reputed saints. Many a Muslim Monarch hasthus been incited (as the Kings of Christendom were by Peter the Hermit)to undertake religious wars, or urged to acts of piety and charity. orrestrained from tyranny by threats of Divine vengeance to be called downupon his head by the imprecations of a welee. 'Alee, the favourite sonof the Khaleefeh El Ma moon, was induced, for the sake of religion, toflee from the splendour and luxuries of his father's court, and, afterthe example of a self denying devotee, to follow the occupation of aporter, in a state of the most abject poverty, at El Barah, fasting allthe day, remaining without sleep at night in a mosque, and walkingbarefooted, until, under an accumulation of severe sufferings, heprematurely ended his days, dying on a mat. The honours which he refusedto receive in life were paid to him after his death: his rank beingdiscovered by a ring and paper which he left, his corpse was anointedwith camphor and musk and aloes, wrapped in fine linen of Egypt, and soconveyed to his distressed father at Baghdad.Self denial I have before mentioned as one of the most important meansby which to attain the dignity of a welee. A very famous saint,Esh Shiblee, is said to have received from his father an inheritance ofsixty millions of deenars (a sum incredible, and probably a mistake forsixty thousand, or for sixty million dirhems), besides landed property,and to have expended it all in charity: also, to have thrown into theTigris seventy hundred weight of books, written by his own hand during aperiod of twenty years.Shah El Karmanee, another celebrated saint, had a beautiful daughter,whom the Sulan of his country sought in marriage. The holy man requiredthree days to consider his sovereign's proposal, and in the mean timevisited several mosques, in one of which he saw a young man humblyoccupied in prayer. Having waited till he had finished, he accosted him,saying, "My son, hast thou a wife?" Being answered, "No," he said, "Ihave a maiden, a virtuous devotee, who hath learned the whole of theur an, and is amply endowed with beauty. Dost thou desire her?" "Who,"said the young man, "will marry me to such a one as thou hast described,when I possess no more than three dirhems?" "_I_ will marry thee toher," answered the saint: "she is my daughter, and I am Shah the son ofShujaa El Karmanee: give me the dirhems that thou hast, that I may buy adirhem's worth of bread, and a dirhem's worth of something savoury, anda dirhem's worth of perfume." The marriage contract was performed. butwhen the bride came to the young man, she saw a stale cake of breadplaced upon the top of his mug. upon which she put on her izar, and wentout. Her husband said, "Now I perceive that the daughter of ShahEl Karmanee is displeased with my poverty." She answered, "I did notwithdraw from fear of poverty, but on account of the weakness of thyfaith, seeing how thou layest by a cake of bread for the morrow."One of my friends in Cairo, Abu l asim of Geelan, mentioned in a formernote, entertained me with a long relation of the mortifications andother means which he employed to attain the rank of a welee. These werechiefly self denial and a perfect reliance upon Providence. He left hishome in a state of voluntary destitution and complete nudity, to travelthrough Persia and the surrounding countries, and yet more distantregions if necessary, in search of a spiritual guide. For many days heavoided the habitations of men, fasting from daybreak till sunset, andthen eating nothing but a little grass or a few leaves or wild fruits,till by degrees he habituated himself to almost total abstinence fromevery kind of nourishment. His feet, at first blistered, and cut bysharp stones, soon became callous. and in proportion to his reduction offood, his frame, contrary to the common course of nature, became(according to his own account) more stout and lusty. Bronzed by the sun,and with his black hair hanging over his shoulders (for he had abjuredthe use of the razor), he presented, in his nudity, a wild and frightfulappearance. and on his first approaching a town, was surrounded andpelted by a crowd of boys. he therefore retreated, and, after theexample of our first parents, made himself a partial covering of leaves.and this he always after did on similar occasions. never remaining longenough in a town for his leafy apron to wither. The abodes of mankind healways passed at a distance, excepting when several days' fast, whiletraversing an arid desert, compelled him to obtain a morsel of bread ora cup of water from the hand of some charitable fellow creature. Onething that he particularly dreaded was, to receive relief from a sinfulman, or from a demon in the human form. In passing over a parched anddesolate tract, where for three days he had found nothing to eat, noteven a blade of grass, nor a spring from which to refresh his tongue, hebecame overpowered with thirst, and prayed that God would send him amessenger with a pitcher of water. "But," said he, "let the water be ina green Baghdahee pitcher, that I may know it be from Thee, and not fromthe Devil. and when I ask the bearer to give me to drink, let him pourit over my head, that I may not too much gratify my carnal desire." "Ilooked behind me," he continued, "and saw a man bearing a greenBaghdahee pitcher of water, and said to him, 'Give me to drink.' and hecame up to me, and poured the contents over my head, and departed! ByAllah it was so!" Rejoicing in this miracle, as a proof of his havingattained to a degree of wilayeh (or saintship), and refreshed by thewater, he continued his way over the desert, more firm than ever in hiscourse of self denial, which, though imperfectly followed, had been themeans of his being thus distinguished. But the burning thirst returnedshortly after, and he felt himself at the point of sinking under it,when he beheld before him a high hill, with a rivulet running by itsbase. To the summit of this hill he determined to ascend, by way ofmortification, before he would taste the water, and this point, withmuch difficulty, he reached at the close of the day. Here standing, hesaw approaching, below, a troop of horsemen, who paused at the foot ofthe hill, when their chief, who was foremost, called out to him by name,"O Abu l asim! O Geelanee! Come down and drink!" but, persuaded bythis that he was Iblees with a troop of his sons, the evil Genii, hewithstood the temptation, and remained stationary until the deceiverwith his attendants had passed on, and were out of sight. The sun hadthen set. his thirst had somewhat abated. and he only drank a few drops.Continuing his wanderings in the desert, he found, upon a pebbly plain,an old man with a long white beard, who accosted him, asking of what hewas in search. "I am seeking," he answered, "a spiritual guide. and myheart tells me that thou art the guide I seek." "My son," said the oldman, "thou seest yonder a saint's tomb: it is a place where prayer isanswered: go thither, enter it, and seat thyself: neither eat nor drinknor sleep. but occupy thyself solely, day and night, in repeatingsilently, 'La ilaha illa llah' (There is no deity but God). andlet not any living creature see thy lips move in doing so. foramong the peculiar virtues of these words is this, that they maybe uttered without any motion of the lips. Go, and peace be onthee." "Accordingly," said my friend, "I went thither. It was a smallsquare building, crowned by a cupola. and the door was open. I entered,and seated myself, facing the niche, and the oblong monument over thegrave. It was evening, and I commenced my silent professions of theUnity, as directed by my guide. and at dusk I saw a white figure seatedbeside me, as if assisting in my devotional task. I stretched forth myhand to touch it. but found that it was not a material substance. yetthere it was: I saw it distinctly. Encouraged by this vision, Icontinued my task for three nights and days without intermission,neither eating not drinking, yet increasing in strength both of body andof spirit. and on the third day, I saw written upon the whitewashedwalls of the tomb, and on the ground, and in the air, wherever I turnedmy eyes, 'La ilaha illa llah.' and whenever a fly entered the tomb, itformed these words in its flight. By Allah it was so! My object was nowfully attained: I felt myself endowed with supernatural knowledge:thoughts of my friends and acquaintances troubled me not. but I knewwhere each of them was, in Persia, India, Arabia, and Turkey, and whateach was doing. I experienced an indescribable happiness. This statelasted several years. but at length I was insensibly enticed back toworldly objects: I came to this country. my fame as a caligraphist drewme into the service of the government. and now see what I am, deckedwith pelisses and shawls, and with this thing on mybreast. too old, I fear, to undergo again the self denial necessary torestore me to true happiness, though I have almost resolved to make theattempt." Soon after this conversation, he was deprived of his office,and died of the plague. He was well known to have passed several yearsas a wandering devotee. and his sufferings, combined with enthusiasm,perhaps disordered his imagination, and made him believe that he reallysaw the strange sights which he described to me. for there was anappearance of earnestness and sincerity in his manner, such as I thoughtcould hardly be assumed by a conscious impostor.Insanity, however, if not of a very violent and dangerous nature, iscommonly regarded by Muslims as a quality that entitles the subject ofit to be esteemed as a saint. being supposed to be the abstraction ofthe mind from worldly affairs, and its total devotion to God. Thispopular superstition is a fertile source of imposture. for, a reputationfor sanctity being so easily obtained and supported, there are numbersof persons who lay claim to it from motives of indolence andlicentiousness, eager to receive alms merely for performing the tricksof madmen, and greedy of indulging in pleasures forbidden by the law.such indulgences not being considered in their case as transgressions bythe common people, but rather as indications of holy frenzy. From my ownobservation I should say that lunatics or idiots, or impostors,constitute the majority of the persons reputed to be saints among theMuslims of the present day. and most of those who are not more thanslightly tinged with insanity are darweeshes.A reputed saint of this description, in Cairo, in whom persons of someeducation put great faith, affected to have a particular regard for me.He several times accosted me in an abrupt manner, acquainted me with thestate of my family in England, and uttered incoherent predictionsrespecting me, all of which communications, excepting one which hequalified with an "in shaa llah" (or "if it be the will of God"), I mustconfess, proved to be true. but I must also state that he was acquaintedwith two of my friends who might have materially assisted him to framethese predictions, though they protested to me that they had not doneso. The following extract from a journal which I kept in Cairo during mysecond visit to Egypt, will convey some idea of this person, who willserve as a picture of many of his fraternity. To day (Nov. 6th, 1834),as I was sitting in the shop of the Basha's booksellers, a reputedsaint, whom I have often seen here, came and seated himself by me, andbegan, in a series of abrupt sentences, to relate to me various mattersrespecting me, past, present, and to come. He is called the sheykh 'AleeEl Leysee. He is a poor man, supported by alms. tall and thin and verydark, about thirty years of age, and wears nothing at present but a blueshirt and a girdle, and a padded red cap. "O Efendee," he said, "thouhast been very anxious for some days. There is a grain of anxietyremaining in thee yet. Do not fear. There is a letter coming to thee bysea, that will bring thee good news." He then proceeded to tell me ofthe state of my family, and that all were well excepting one, whom heparticularized by description, and who he stated to be then sufferingfrom an intermittent fever. "Thisaffliction," he continued, "may be removed by prayer. and theexcellences of the next night, the night of thefirst Friday of the month of Regeb, of Regeb, the holy Regeb, are verygreat. I wanted to ask thee for something to day. but I feared: I fearedgreatly. Thou must be invested with the wilayeh (_i. e._ be made awelee): the welees love thee. and the Prophet loves thee. Thou must goto the sheykh Muafa El Munadee, and the sheykh El Bahaee. Thoumust be a welee." He then took my right hand, in the manner commonlypractised in the ceremony which admits a person a darweesh, and repeatedthe Fateah (commonly pronounced Fat'ah). after which he added, "Ihave admitted thee my darweesh." Having next told me of severalcircumstances relating to my family matters of an unusual nature withsingular minuteness and truth, he added, "To night, if it be the will ofGod, thou shalt see the Prophet in thy sleep, and El Khir and theseyyid El Bedawee. This is Regeb, and I wanted to ask of thee but Ifeared I wanted to ask of thee four piastres, to buy meat and bread andoil and radishes. Regeb! Regeb! I have great offices to do for theeto night." Less than a shilling for all he promised was little enough:I gave it him for the trouble he had taken. and he uttered many abruptprayers for me. In the following night, however, I saw in my sleepneither Moammad nor El Khir nor the seyyid El Bedawee, unless, likeNebuchadnezzar, I was unable, on awaking, to remember my dreams.Some reputed saints of the more respectable class, to avoid publicnotice, wear the general dress and manners of their fellow countrymen,and betray no love of ostentation in their acts of piety andself denial. or live as hermits in desert places, depending solely uponProvidence for their support, and are objects of pious and charitablevisits from the inhabitants of near and distant places, and from casualtravellers. Others distinguish themselves by the habit of a darweesh, orby other peculiarities, such as a long and loose coat (called dil)composed of patches of cloth of various colours, long strings of beadshung upon the neck, a ragged turban, and a staff with shreds of cloth ofdifferent colours attached to the top. or obtain a reputation formiraculous powers by eating glass, fire, serpents,  c. Some of those whoare insane, and of those who feign to be so, go about, even in crowdedcities, in a state of perfect nudity, and are allowed to commit, withimpunity, acts of brutal sensuality which the law, when appealed to,should punish with death. Such practices are forbidden by the religionand law even in the cases of saints. but common and deeply rootedsuperstition prevents their punishment. During the occupation of Egyptby the French, the Commander in chief, Menou, applied to the Sheykhs (or'Ulama) of the city for their opinion "respecting those persons who wereaccustomed to go about in the streets in a state of nudity, crying outand screaming, and arrogating to themselves the dignity of wilayeh,relied upon as saints by the generality of the people, neitherperforming the prayers of the Muslims nor fasting," asking whether suchconduct was permitted by the religion, or contrary to the law. He wasanswered, "Conduct of this description is forbidden, and repugnant toour religion and law and to our traditions." The French General thankedthem for this answer, and gave orders to prevent such practices infuture, and to seize every one seen thus offending. if insane, toconfine him in the Maristan (or hospital and lunatic asylum). and if notinsane, to compel him either to relinquish his disgusting habits, or toleave the city. Of reputed saints of this kind, thus writes anenlightened poet, El Bedree El ejazee: "Would that I had not lived to see every fool esteemed among menas a ub!Their learned men take him as a patron. nay, even as Lord, in placeof the Possessor of Heaven's throne.Forgetting God, they say, 'Such a one from all mankind can removeaffliction.'When he dies, they make for him a place of visitation, and strangersand Arabs hurry thither in crowds:Some of them kiss his tomb, and some kiss the threshold of the door,and the very dust.Thus do the idolaters act towards their images, hoping so to obtaintheir favour."These lines are quoted by El Jabartee, in his account of a verycelebrated modern saint, the seyyid 'Alee El Bekree (events of Rabeeaeth Thanee, 1214). A brief history of this person will not be heremisplaced, as it will present a good illustration of the generalcharacter and actions of those insane individuals who are commonlyregarded as saints.The seyyid 'Alee El Bekree was a mejzoob (or insane person) who wasconsidered an eminent welee, and much trusted in: for several years heused to walk naked about the streets of Cairo, with a shaven face,bearing a long nebboot (or staff), and uttering confused language, whichthe people attentively listened to, and interpreted according to theirdesires and the exigencies of their states. He was a tall, spare man,and sometimes wore a shirt and a cotton skull cap. but he was generallybarefooted and naked. The respect with which he was treated induced awoman, who was called the sheykhah Ammooneh, to imitate his examplefurther than decency allowed: she followed him whithersoever he went,covered at first with her izar (or large cotton veil thrown over thehead and body), and muttering, like him, confused language. Enteringprivate houses with him, she used to ascend to the areems, and gainedthe faith of the women, who presented her with money and clothes, andspread abroad that the sheykh ('Alee) had looked upon her, and affectedher with religious frenzy, so that she had become a weleeyeh, or femalesaint. Afterwards, becoming more insane and intoxicated, she uncoveredher face, and put on the clothing of a man. and thus attired she stillaccompanied the sheykh, and the two wandered about, followed by numbersof children and common vagabonds. some of whom also stripped off theirclothes in imitation of the sheykh, and followed, dancing. their madactions being attributed (like those of the woman) to religious frenzy,induced by his look or touch, which converted them into saints. Thevulgar and young, who daily followed them, consequently increased innumbers. and some of them, in passing through the market streets,snatched away goods from the shops, thus exciting great commotionwherever they went. When the sheykh sat down in any place, the crowdstopped, and the people pressed to see him and his mad companions. Onthese occasions the woman used to mount upon the maabah of a shop, orascend a hillock, and utter disgusting language, sometimes in Arabic,and sometimes in Turkish, while many persons among her audience wouldkiss her hands to derive a blessing. After having persevered for sometime in this course, none preventing them, the party entered one day thelane leading from the principal street of the city to the house of theaee, and were seized by a Turkish officer there residing, named JaafarKashif, who, having brought them into his house, gave the sheykh somefood, and drove out the spectators, retaining the woman and themejzoobs, whom he placed in confinement: he then liberated the sheykh'Alee, brought out the woman and the mejzoobs and beat them, sent thewoman to the Maristan, and there confined her, and set at large therest, after they had prayed for mercy, and clothed themselves, andrecovered from their intoxication. The woman remained a while confinedin the Maristan, and, when liberated, lived alone as a sheykhah,believed in by men and women, and honoured as a saint with visits andfestivals.The seyyid 'Alee, after he had thus been deprived of his companions andimitators, was constrained to lead a different kind of life. He had acunning brother, who, to turn the folly of this saint to a good account,and fill his own purse (seeing how great faith the people placed in him,as the Egyptians are prone to do in such a case), confined him in hishouse, and clothed him, asserting that he had his permission to do so,and that he had been invested with the dignity of ub. Thus hecontrived to attract crowds of persons, men and women, to visit him. Heforbade him to shave his beard, which consequently grew to its fullsize. and his body became fat and stout from abundance of food and rest.for, while he went about naked, he was, as before mentioned, of a leanfigure. During that period he used generally to pass the nightwandering, without food, through the streets, in winter and summer.Having now servants to wait upon him, whether sleeping or waking, hepassed his time in idleness, uttering confused and incoherent words,and sometimes laughing and sometimes scolding. and in the course of hisidle loquacity he could not but let fall some words applicable to theaffairs of some of his listening visiters, who attributed suchexpressions to his supernatural knowledge of the thoughts of theirhearts, and interpreted them as warnings or prophecies. Men and women,and particularly the wives of the grandees, flocked to him with presentsand votive offerings, which enriched the coffers of his brother. and thehonours which he received ceased not with his death. His funeral wasattended by multitudes from every quarter. His brother buried him in themosque of Esh Sharaibee, in the quarter of the Ezbekeeyeh, made for hima maoorah (or railed enclosure) and an oblong monument over the grave,and frequently repaired thither with readers of the ur an,munshids to sing odes in his honour, flag bearers, and otherpersons, who wailed and screamed, rubbed their faces against the bars ofthe window before his grave, and caught the air of the place in theirhands to thrust it into their bosoms and pockets. Men and women camecrowding together to visit his tomb, bringing votive offerings and waxcandles, and eatables of various kinds to distribute for his sake to thepoor. The oblong monument over his grave, resembling a largechest, was covered, when I was in Cairo, with a black stuff ornamentedby a line of words from the ur an, in white characters, surrounding it.A servant who accompanied me during my rides and walks used often tostop as we passed this tomb, and touch the wooden bars of the windowabove mentioned with his right hand, which he then kissed to obtain ablessing.In most cases greater honour is paid to a reputed saint after his deaththan he receives in his life. A small, square, whitewashed building,crowned with a dome, is generally erected as his tomb, surrounding anoblong monument of stone, brick, or wood, which is immediately over thesepulchral vault. At least one such building forms a conspicuous objectclose by, or within, almost every Arab village. for the differentvillages, and different quarters of every town and city, have theirrespective patron saints, whose tombs are frequently visited, and arethe scenes of periodical festivals, generally celebrated once in everyyear. The tombs of many very eminent saints are mosques. and some ofthese are large and handsome edifices, the monument being under a largeand lofty dome, and surrounded by an enclosure of wooden railings, or ofelegantly worked bronze. In these buildings also, and in some others,the monument is covered with silk or cotton stuff ornamented with wordsfrom the ur an, which form a band around it. Many buildings of the moresimple kind erected in honour of saints, and some of the largerdescription, are mere cenotaphs, or cover only some relic of the personto whom they are dedicated. The tombs and cenotaphs or shrines of saintsare visited by numerous persons, and on frequent occasions. mostcommonly on a particular day of the week. The object of the visiter, ingeneral, is to perform some meritorious act, such as taking bread, orother food, or money, for the poor, or distributing water to thethirsty, on account of the saint, to increase his rewards in heaven, andat the same time to draw down a blessing on himself. or to perform asacrifice of a sheep, goat, calf, or other animal, which he has vowed tooffer, if blessed with some specific object of desire, or to obtaingeneral blessings. or to implore the saint's intercession in some caseof need. The flesh of the devoted animal is given to the poor. Thevisiters also often take with them palm branches, or sprigs of myrtle,or roses or other flowers, to lay upon the monument, as they do whenthey visit the tombs of their relations. The visiter walks round themonument, or its enclosure, from left to right, or with his left sidetowards it (as the pilgrims do round the Kaabeh), sometimes pausing totouch its four angles or corners with his right hand, which he thenkisses. and recites the opening chapter of the ur an (the Fat'ah)standing before one or each of its four sides. Some visiters repeat alsothe chapter of Ya Seen (the 36th), or employ a person to recite this, oreven the whole of the ur an, for hire.The reciter afterwards declares that he transfers the merit of this workto the soul of the deceased saint. Any private petition the visiteroffers up on his own account, imploring a favourable answer for the sakeof the saint, or through his intercession. holding his hands before hisface like an open book, and then drawing them down his face. Many avisiter, on entering the tomb, kisses the threshold, or touches it withhis right hand, which he then kisses. and, on passing by it, personsoften touch the window, and kiss the hand thus honoured.The great periodical or annual festivals are observed with additionalceremonies, and by crowds of visiters. These are called Moolids (moreproperly Molids). and are held on the anniversary of the birth of thesaint, or in commemoration of that event. Persons are then hired torecite the ur an in and near the tomb, during the day. and others,chiefly darweeshes, employ themselves during the night in performingzikrs, which consist in repeating the name of God, or the profession ofhis unity,  c., in chorus, accompanying the words by certain motions ofthe head, hands, or whole body. munshids, at intervals, singingreligious odes or love songs during these performances, to theaccompaniment of a nay, which is a kind of flute, or the arghool, whichis a double reed pipe. These moolids are scenes of rejoicing and oftraffic, which men and boys and girls attend, to eat sweatmeats, anddrink coffee and sherbets, or to amuse themselves with swinging, orturning on a whirligig, or witnessing the feats of conjurers, or theperformances of dancers. and to which tradesmen repair to sell or bartertheir goods. The visiters to the great moolids of the seyyid AmadEl Bedawee, at ana, in the Delta of Egypt, which are great fairs aswell as religious festivals, are almost as numerous as the pilgrims atMekkeh. During a moolid, the inhabitants of the houses in theneighbourhood of the tomb hang lamps before their houses, and spend agreat part of the night listening to the story tellers at thecoffee shops, or attending the zikrs.These latter performances, though so common among the Arabs, areinconsistent with the spirit of the Mohammadan religion, and especiallywith respect to music, which was not employed in religious ceremoniesuntil after the second century of the Flight. The Imam Aboo BekrE oosee, being asked whether it were lawful or not to be present withpeople who assembled in a certain place, and read a portion of theur an. and, after a munshid had recited some poetry, would dance, andbecome excited, and play upon tambourines and pipes, answered, thatsuch practices were vain, ignorant, and erroneous. not ordained by theur an or the Traditions of the Prophet, but invented by thoseIsraelites who worshipped the Golden Calf. that the Prophet and hiscompanions used to sit so quietly that a bird might alight upon the headof any one of them and not be disturbed. that it was incumbent on theSultan and his vicegerents to prevent such persons from entering themosques and other places for these purposes. and that no one whobelieved in God and the Last Day should be present with them, or assistthem in their vain performances: such, he asserted, was the opinion ofthe Imams of the Muslims. Some eminent doctors, however, havecontended for the lawfulness of these practices.Of the various orders of darweeshes, to which so many of the reputedsaints belong, it is unnecessary here to say more than that they differchiefly in unimportant regulations and rites, such as particular formsof prayer, and modes of zikr. that some distinguish themselves bypeculiar dresses. and that a few pursue a wandering life, and subsist onalms. 64. The reason of this strange proceeding is not stated in theCairo edition, but it is in the two other editions which I have beforeme. 65. Arab etiquette requires that a person should sit upon his kneesand feet in the presence of one of much higher rank, or of one to whomhe would pay especial honour. He should also, in these cases, cover hishands with his sleeves. 66. Kunafeh is a kind of pastry resembling vermicelli, made ofwheat flour. It is moistened with clarified butter then baked, andsweetened with honey or sugar. 67. Chess is played somewhat differently in different parts of theEast. The pieces are generally of very simple forms, as the Muslim isforbidden by his religion to make an image of anything that has life. 68. In my original, and in the Breslau edition, the ape is said tohave been the son of the King of the Ebony Islands. but this is amistake. for the latter, as before stated, was the father of the ladywho was carried off by Jarjarees. 69. The term "leewan" has been explained in No. 12 of the notes tothis chapter. 70. This was, and I believe still is, a common battle cry of theArabs, and more commonly used on the occasion of a victory. 71. "Dar es Selam," "the Abode of Peace," or "of Safety," is a nameoften given to Baghdad, as it is also to one of the seven stories orstages of Paradise. 72. _The Mountain of Loadstone._ Several Arab writers describethis mountain of loadstone. El azweenee, in his account of minerals,says that the mine of loadstone is on the shore of the Indian Ocean, andthat if the ships which navigate this sea approach the said mine, andcontain anything of iron, it flies from them like a bird, and adheres tothe mountain. for which reason, it is the general custom to make use ofno iron in the construction of the vessels employed in thisnavigation. I think that I have met with a similar story in someLatin author. 73. For an explanation of this term, see what I have said on thesubject of prayer in the first of the notes to the Introduction. 74. "Khaeeb" signifies "endowed with plenty." 75. The remainder of the story of the Third Royal Mendicant isalmost wholly omitted in the Cairo edition. I translate it chiefly fromthe Calcutta edition of the first two hundred nights. 76. _On Dreams._ That Dreams are regarded by the Muslims as beingoften true warnings or indications of future events I have mentioned ina former note. This belief, sanctioned by the Prophet, will be wellillustrated by the following anecdote, which was related to me in Cairo,shortly after the terrible plague of the year 1835, by the sheykhMoammad E anawee, who had taken the trouble of investigating thefact, and had ascertained its truth.A tradesman, living in the quarter of El anafee, in Cairo, dreamt,during the plague above mentioned, that eleven persons were carried outfrom his house to be buried, victims of this disease. He awoke in astate of the greatest distress and alarm, reflecting that eleven was thetotal number of the inhabitants of his house, including himself, andthat it would be vain in him to attempt, by adding one or more membersto his household, to elude the decree of God, and give himself a chanceof escape: so, calling together his neighbours, he informed them of hisdream, and was counselled to submit with resignation to a fate soplainly foreshewn, and to be thankful to God for the timely notice withwhich he had been mercifully favoured. On the following day, one of hischildren died. a day or two after, a wife. and the pestilence continuedits ravages among his family until he remained in his house alone. Itwas impossible for him now to entertain the slightest doubt of theentire accomplishment of the warning: immediately, therefore, after thelast death that had taken place among his household, he repaired to afriend at a neighbouring shop, and, calling to him several other personsfrom the adjoining and opposite shops, he reminded them of his dream,acquainted them with its almost complete fulfilment, and expressed hisconviction that he, the eleventh, should very soon die. "Perhaps," saidhe, "I shall die this next night: I beg of you, therefore, for the sakeof God, to come to my house early to morrow morning, and the next morningand the next if necessary, and to see if I be dead, and, when dead, thatI be properly buried. for I have no one with me to wash and shroud me.Fail not to do me this service, which will procure you a recompense inheaven. I have bought my grave linen: you will find it in a corner ofthe room in which I sleep. If you find the door of the house latched,and I do not answer to your knocking, break it open."Soon after sunset he laid himself in his lonely bed, though without anyexpectation of closing his eyes in sleep. for his mind was absorbed inreflections upon the awful entry into another world, and a review of hispast life. As the shades of night gathered around him, he could almostfancy that he beheld, in one faint object or another in his gloomychamber, the dreadful person of the Angel of Death: and at length heactually perceived a figure gliding in at the door, and approaching hisbed. Starting up in horror, he exclaimed, "Who art thou?" and a sternand solemn voice answered, "Be silent! I am 'Azraeel, the Angel ofDeath!" "Alas!" cried the terrified man. "I testify that there is nodeity but God, and I testify that Moammad is God's Apostle! There is nostrength nor power but in God, the High! the Great! To God we belong,and to Him we must return!" He then covered himself over with hisquilt, as if for protection, and lay with throbbing heart, expectingevery moment to have his soul torn from him by the inexorable messenger.But moments passed away, and minutes, and hours. yet without hisexperiencing any hope of escape. for he imagined that the Angel waswaiting for him to resign himself, or had left him for a while, and wasoccupied in receiving first the souls of the many hundred human beingswho had attained their predestined term in that same night and in thesame city, and the souls of the thousands who were doomed to employ himelsewhere. Daybreak arrived before his sufferings terminated. and hisneighbours, coming according to their promise, entered his chamber, andfound him still in bed. but observing that he was covered up, andmotionless as a corpse, they doubted whether he were still alive, andcalled to him. He answered, with a faint voice, "I am not yet dead. butthe Angel of Death came to me in the dusk of the evening, and I expectevery moment his return, to take my soul: therefore trouble me not. butsee me washed and buried." "But why," said his friends, "was thestreet door left unlatched?" "I latched it," he answered, "but theAngel of Death may have opened it." "And who," they asked, "is the manin the court?" He answered, "I know of no man in the court: perhaps theAngel who is waiting for my soul has made himself visible to you, andbeen mistaken, in the twilight, for a man." "He is a thief," they said,"who has gathered together everything in the house that he could carryaway, and has been struck by the plague while doing so, and now liesdead in the court, at the foot of the stairs, grasping in his hand asilver candlestick." The master of the house, after hearing this,paused for a moment, and then, throwing off his quilt, exclaimed,"Praise be to God, the Lord of all creatures! That is the eleventh, andI am safe! No doubt it was that rascal who came to me and said that hewas the Angel of Death. Praise be to God! Praise be to God!"This man survived the plague, and took pleasure in relating the abovestory. The thief had overheard his conversation with his neighbours,and, coming to his house in the dusk, had put his shoulder to the woodenlock, and so raised the door and displaced the latch within. There isnothing wonderful in the dream, nor in its accomplishment. the plague of1835 entirely desolated many houses, and was mostly fatal to the young.and all the inhabitants of the house in question were young exceptingthe master. 77. "'Ajeeb" signifies "a wonder," or "anything strange oradmirable." 78. Blue is the colour of mourning, as before mentioned, in No. 52of the notes to the second chapter. 79. Smearing the face and slapping the cheeks are common practicesof Arab women, especially of the lower orders, on following to thegrave the corpse of a near relation or a husband. 80. _On the_ Rukh'. This fabulous bird is described by many Arabwriters, some of whom assert that it can carry a rhinoceros, whileothers ascribe to it powers still more extraordinary. I shall haveoccasion to speak of it again in my notes to this work. 81. This is explained by No. 30 of the notes to the Introduction. 82. I here return to the Cairo edition. 83. Some of the incidents described in this story, as theshipwrecks caused by the image, and the opening of the forbidden closet, c., appear to be taken from the romance of Seyf Zu l Yezen, of which Ipossess a copy, purchased during my second visit to Egypt. This romance,which has become extremely scarce, is filled with stories of genii andenchantments of the most extravagant kind. Some of the publicstory tellers in Cairo used, a few years since, to amuse their audiencesby recitations from it. I was not able to discover the period at whichit was composed. but it is said to have been written long before theTales of a Thousand and One Nights. I saw once a portion of a copy ofwhich it appeared, from the hand writing and the paper, to be three orfour centuries old. 84. So in the Calcutta edition of the first two hundred nights, andin the edition of Breslau. 85. Those decrees which are written with "the Pen" on the"Preserved Tablet" are believed to be unchangeable. "The Pen" is alsothe title of one of the chapters of the ur an, the 68th. 86. In all the copies of the original which I have by me, El Barahis said to have been the place to which the lady designed to voyage. butthis is inconsistent with the sequel of the story. 87. In the old version, two strange errors occur in the passagecorresponding with this: two words in the original, "nar" and "doon,"having been mistaken for a proper name. and the word "jebbar," which,applied to God, signifies "almighty," or rather the "Compeller of hiscreatures to do whatsoever He willeth," being taken in the sense of"giant," which it bears in many other cases. 88. _On Martyrs._ The Mohammadan law distinguishes severaldifferent descriptions of martyrs. This honourable title is given to thesoldier who dies in fighting for the faith, or on his way to do so, orwho dies almost immediately after his having been wounded when soengaged. to a person who innocently meets with his death from the handof another. to a victim of the plague, who does not flee from thedisease, or of dysentery. to a person who is drowned. and to one who iskilled by the falling of a wall or any building. It is said that thesouls of martyrs, after quitting their bodies, reside, until the day ofresurrection, in the crops of green birds, which eat of the fruits, anddrink of the waters, of Paradise. Such we are to consider as the firstand lowest state of felicity to which the young prince in this tale wasintroduced as the reward of his virtue. 89. The share inherited, according to the law, by the wife, or bythe wives conjointly when there are more than one, is one eighth of whatremains of the property of the deceased after the discharge of his debtsand legacies, if he have left issue. and one fourth, if he have left noissue. 90. The Arabs, fond of hyperbole, often thus describe a loftybuilding. 91. _On the Magnificence of Arab Palaces,  c._ After remarkingupon the preceding sentence as presenting an instance of Orientalhyperbole, it may be necessary to inform the reader that he needs notregard this in the same light. The magnificence of the palaces ofBaghdad in the times of the Khaleefehs almost exceeds belief.In the beginning of the year of the Flight 305 (June, A.D. 917), twoambassadors from the Greek Emperor (Constantine IX., Porphyrogenitus)arrived in Baghdad on a mission to the Khaleefeh El Mutedir, bringingan abundance of costly presents. and the scenes which they witnessed arethus described. apparently, however, not without some exaggeration. Theywere first received by the Wezeer, who, at the audience which he grantedto them in his garden palace, displayed on this occasion a degree ofmagnificence that had never before been manifested by any of his rank.pages, memlooks, and soldiers, crowded the avenues and courts of hismansion, the apartments of which were hung with tapestry of the value ofthirty thousand deenars. and the Wezeer himself was surrounded bygenerals and other officers on his right and left and behind his seat,when the two ambassadors approached him, dazzled by the splendour thatsurrounded them, to beg for an interview with the Khaleefeh.El Mutedir, having appointed a day on which he would receive them,ordered that the courts and passages and avenues of his palace should befilled with armed men, and that all the apartments should be furnishedwith the utmost magnificence. A hundred and sixty thousand armedsoldiers were arranged in ranks in the approach to the palace. next tothese were the pages of the closets, and chief eunuchs, clad in silk andwith belts set with jewels, in number seven thousand. four thousandwhite, and three thousand black: there were also seven hundredchamberlains. and beautifully ornamented boats of various kinds wereseen floating upon the Tigris, hard by. The two ambassadors passed firstby the palace of the chief chamberlain, and, astonished at the splendidornaments and pages and arms which they there beheld, imagined that thiswas the palace of the Khaleefeh. but what they had seen here waseclipsed by what they beheld in the latter, where they were amazed bythe sight of thirty eight thousand pieces of tapestry ofgold embroidered silk brocade, and twenty two thousand magnificentcarpets. Here also were two menageries of beasts by nature wild, buttamed by art, and eating from the hands of men: among them were ahundred lions. each lion with its keeper. They then entered the Palaceof the Tree, enclosing a pond from which rose the Tree: this hadeighteen branches, with leaves of various colours (being artificial),and with birds of gold and silver (or gilt and silvered) of everyvariety of kind and size, perched upon its branches, so constructed thateach of them sang. Thence they passed into the garden, in which werefurniture and utensils not to be enumerated: in the passages leading toit were suspended ten thousand gilt coats of mail. Being at lengthconducted before El Mutedir, they found him seated on a couch of ebonyinlaid with gold and silver, to the right of which were hung ninenecklaces of jewels, and the like to the left, the jewels of whichoutshone the light of day. The two ambassadors paused at the distance ofabout a hundred cubits from the Khaleefeh, with the interpreter. Havingleft the presence, they were conducted through the palace, and wereshewn splendidly caparisoned elephants, a giraffe, lynxes, and otherbeasts. They were then clad with robes of honour, and to each of themwas brought fifty thousand dirhems, together with dresses and otherpresents. It is added, that the ambassadors approached the palacethrough a street called "the Street of the Menarehs," in which were athousand menarehs, or menarets. It was at the hour of noon. and as theypassed, the mueddins from all these menarehs chanted the call to prayerat the same time, so that the earth almost quaked at the sound, and theambassadors were struck with fear.The Orientals well understand how to give the most striking effect tothe jewels which they display on their dress,  c., on occasions ofstate. Sir John Malcolm, describing his reception by the late King ofPersia, says, "His dress baffled all description. The ground of hisrobes was white. but he was so covered with jewels of an extraordinarysize, and their splendour, from his being seated where the rays of thesun played upon them, was so dazzling, that it was impossible todistinguish the minute parts which combined to give such amazingbrilliancy to his whole figure." 92. As this marriage is described as conducted in an irregularmanner, I need say nothing at present of the ceremonies usuallypractised on such an occasion. 93. Every person who has visited Eastern cities will bear testimonyto the plausibility of this excuse. I have several times been throwndown by the wide load of a camel in the streets of Cairo, and seen loadsof firewood scraping the houses on both sides of a street at the sametime. 94. Women suspected of infidelity to their husbands have notunfrequently been thus punished in Egypt in modern times, in violationof the law. 95. "Saad" signifies "happiness," or "prosperity," and also"happy," or "prosperous." 96. Pity is of more important service to the Muslim after deaththan during life. for the prayers which it inspires increase hishappiness in futurity, or diminish his misery. 97. This allusion to religious faith is peculiarly apt in the mouthof a Muslim. for the chief dogma of his creed is the denial of anypartnership in the Divine essence. He calls persons of all otherreligions "mushriks," or those who attribute partners to God. 98. In the original, she is here called an 'Efreeteh, which is animproper term. 99. This salutation and its reply are only to be given by and toMuslims. 100. It is implied by this ejaculation that the two ladies wereadmirable beauties, evidences of the perfection of their Creator.