 1. As the story of the Humpback is one of the best in thiscollection, and purely Arab, I have been glad to find, in the Calcuttaedition of the first two hundred nights, authority for deviating herefrom my usual standard copy, by substituting "El Barah" for a city ofChina. The Breslau edition, in the opening of the story, lays the sceneat "El Barah _and_ ajar." By the latter, I suppose Kashghar to bemeant. 2. In my original, they are said to have gone out early in themorning. but this is contradicted by the sequel. 3. The appeal to Ezra's ass, which alludes to a tradition believedby the Muslims, as it is mentioned in the ur an, is omitted in theCairo edition. The story is this: 'Ozeyr, or Ezra, "riding on an ass bythe ruins of Jerusalem, after it had been destroyed by the Chaldeans,doubted in his mind by what means God could raise the city and itsinhabitants again. whereupon God caused him to die, and he remained inthat condition a hundred years. at the end of which, God restored him tolife, and he found a basket of figs and a cruise of wine that he hadwith him, not in the least spoiled or corrupted. but his ass was dead,the bones only remaining. and these, while the Prophet looked on, wereraised and clothed with flesh, becoming an ass again, which, beinginspired with life, began immediately to bray." 4. Most Arab cities abound with cats, which are much favoured bythe inhabitants. These animals are often seen leaping across from theterrace of one house to that of another on the opposite side of a narrowstreet. and often has my kitchen in Cairo been robbed by them. They aresaid to contribute greatly to the spreading of the plague. 5. Occurrences of this kind are said to have often happened in Arabtowns, where dogs, though esteemed unclean by the Muslims, are, likecats, generally very numerous. Few of them have masters. but theycompose distinct tribes. those of each tribe confining themselves to aparticular quarter or district of the town, and suffering no strange dogto intrude among them and share with them in the offal thrown out fromthe butchers' shops and from private houses. or prowling about themounds of rubbish in the environs, and, like the vultures, feeding uponthe carcasses of camels, asses, and other beasts, thrown out by theinhabitants. I was once told that the master of an Englishmerchant vessel, having fallen asleep in a state of intoxication on theshore of the harbour of Alexandria, at night, was devoured by dogs. 6. The snatching of turbans by night is still a frequent practiceof Arab rogues, and one which is often very lucrative. many a turbanbeing composed of a costly Kashmeer shawl wound round a arboosh, whichlatter alone is worth eight or nine shillings, or more, and some alsohaving money or other valuables secreted in them. 7. Watchmen are generally employed to guard by night the soos, ormarket streets, and other districts, in Arab towns. Those in Cairo carrya nebboot, or long staff, but no lantern. Their usual cries are of areligious nature. as, "I extol the perfection of the Living King, whosleepeth not nor dieth!" When they see a passenger approaching, theycall out to him, "Attest the unity of God!" or merely, "Attest theunity!" and the reply is, "There is no deity but God!" It is supposedthat a person bound on any unlawful undertaking would not dare to utterthese words. 8. At the period when this work was composed, the Christians weredistinguished from the Muslims by a black or blue turban, and this waswound in a peculiar manner. 9. _On the Title and Office of_ Walee. "Walee" is the title givento the chief magistrate of the police, and was so employed in the timeof El Mareezee, instead of the older appellation of "aebesh Shurah." The same officer was also called "Mutawellee." It was theduty of this magistrate to perambulate the streets at night, attended bya body of his officers, including an executioner. for he often inflictedcapital punishment on criminals immediately after their detection. Hewas invested with a degree of despotic power, and often put to deathpersons accused of capital crimes without the formalities required bythe law. It was also his duty to superintend the infliction of thepunishments of criminals legally condemned. An officer was employed toperform the nightly rounds in El Medeeneh in the reign of Aboo Bekr. butit appears that the first regular guard for this purpose was appointedin the reign of 'Othman. 10. The ardebb, thus commonly pronounced, but properly writtenirdebb, varies in different places. In Cairo it is very nearlyequivalent to five English bushels. 11. In the original, this building is called the Khan ofEl Jawalee. but it evidently should be  of El Jawalee. and the erroris to be attributed to a copyist. The Khan of El Jawalee is mentioned byEl Mareezee, as being situate at a short distance within thepresent gate called Bab en Nar, and by the site of the older gate socalled. and as existing in his time, in the former half of the ninthcentury of the Flight. (El Mareezee also informs us, in his account ofthe Medreseh el Jawaleeyeh, that El Jawalee's full name was'Alam ed Deen Senjer, and that he was originally a memlook of oneJawalee (whence his surname), an Emeer of El Melik e ahir Beybars. Hedied in the year of the Flight 745. ED.) 12. Bab en Nar (the Gate of Victory, or  of Aid) is the nameof the easternmost of the northern gates of Cairo. It was built in thereign of the Khaleefeh El Mustanir, in the year of the Flight 480 (A.D. 1087 8). 13. The words "besides my brokerage," I have inserted as necessaryto make the account correct. 14. It has been shewn in a former note that the Arabs consider itindecorous to eat with the left hand. 15. As it is held impolite to shew the hands, unless unavoidably,in the presence of a person of rank, the sleeve of the cloth coat, orthat of the silk vest which is worn beneath it, is made sufficientlylong to extend a little beyond the ends of the fingers. and so also, ingeneral, is the sleeve of the shirt worn by persons of the lower orders. 16. This building is first called, in the Cairo edition, the Khanof Suroor. and afterwards,  of Mesroor: the latter is theappellation given to it in the edition of Breslau. and is the correctname. The Khan of Mesroor is mentioned by El Mareezee, as situateat the southern extremity of Beyn el areyn (respecting which see thenext note), adjacent to the site of the Great Palace of the Khaleefehs.There were two Khans of this name near each other. El Mareezee says,that, in his earlier days, the greater of these, which appears to bethat here alluded to, was one of the finest and largest Khans in Cairo,in a most flourishing state, the resort of the chief Syrian merchants,and the depot of their goods. but that latterly it had declined, andsome portions of it were ruined. 17. Beyn el areyn (which signifies "Between the Two Palaces") isthe name still applied to that part of the principal street of Cairowhich intervenes between the sites of the two famous palaces of theKhaleefehs. 18. A eysareeyeh is a superior kind of soo, consisting of rangesof shops facing each other. That which is here mentioned (called in theCairo edition, the eysereeyeh of Jirjis. in the edition of Breslau, theeysareeyeh of Jarkash. and in the old English version, erroneously, theCircassian bezestein) is the eysareeyeh of Jaharkas, which, as I learnfrom El Mareezee, was situate near the centre of what constitutedthe old city, on the east of the principal street. It existed in histime, and was built by the Emeer Fakhr ed Deen Jaharkas, in the year ofthe Flight 502 (A.D. 1108 9). Ibn Khallikan, as quoted byEl Mareezee, says of it, "I have seen a number of merchants who havetraversed various countries, and who say, 'We have not seen in anycountry its equal in beauty and greatness, and compactness ofconstruction.'" He explains also the orthography of the name of"Jaharkas," and states that it is Persian (Chahar kas), and signifies"four persons." 19. The Egyptian fowls are much smaller than those of our country,and one is not too much for one man's breakfast. The eggs are usuallyhatched in ovens. 20. The appellation of "the Gardener" is here to be understood as amere surname derived from the occupation of some ancestor of themerchant. it being a common custom of the Arabs to retain an appellationof this kind, however humble. 21. El Mareezee mentions a "soo of the money changers" asnear to the Khan of Mesroor. and it seems to be the place here alludedto: the word "soo" being often omitted. 22. The lady having offered up a prayer that the young merchantmight be her husband, I have taken the liberty of inserting here aslight interpolation, which does not detract from the probability orconsistency of the story. but rather the contrary. 23. _On one of the Passages in this Work indicating a very lateDate._ The abbaneeyeh is the name now applied to a portion of a mainstreet, a little to the west of the lake called Birket el Feel, in thesouthern part of Cairo. It is evidently thus applied in the passage towhich this note relates. but El Mareezee, writing in the former half ofthe ninth century of the Flight, says, "In this our time, borderingupon it is a _garden_ called by the name of theabbaneeyeh, who were a family of Darma the son of 'Amr the son of 'Owfthe son of Thaalebeh the son of Baal the son of 'Amr the son of El Ghoththe son of eiyi: so Darma was a minor family of eiyi,and the abbaneeyoon werea family of Darma. and the people have made a road between the garden ofthe abbaneeyeh and the lake." He proceeds to say, that on the _east_ ofthe Birket el Feel there _were_ gardens. but that _houses_ and _streets_had been built _there_. Now, in the work before us, the tract which wasa _garden_ in the time of El Mareezee is mentioned as occupied by_houses_ and _streets_. Many years must have elapsed since that periodbefore such could have been the case. and surely at least a centurybefore the houses could have presented such an appearance as would leada writer to imagine them of "ancient times." It may be objected againstan argument drawn from this passage, that it is perhaps an interpolationof a copyist. but it agrees with many evidences of a late date, andoccurs in at least one other copy (that from which the Breslau editionis printed), with only this slight difference that "abbaneeyeh," bythe erroneous addition of a point beneath the first letter, is convertedinto "Jebbaneeyeh." and it should be remarked that the latter copyvaries considerably in other points from that of Cairo. It would implythat Cairo was almost as extensive a city at the time when this work wascomposed or modernized as it is at present. and would account for itsbeing here called Mir, or Mar. a name which was retained by El Fusaat least as late as the commencement of the tenth century of the Flight,and probably until the year 1517 of our era or a little later, as I haveremarked in a former note. 24. "a'ah" is a term generally signifying "a lofty saloon." butalso often applied to an elegant house. 25. "Naeeb" signifies "a chief," "a leader,"  c., and has variousapplications. In the present instance, the office which it designates isdoubtful, but is evidently of high dignity, as Naeeb of the Shereefs,the Chief, or Syndic, of the Descendants of the Prophet. 26. Bab Zuweyleh (the Gate of Zuweyleh, or, more properly, ofZaweeleh, which is the name of a tribe) is a gate that was built at thesame period as Bab en Nar, before mentioned. It marked the southernlimit of Cairo. but is now in the heart of the metropolis. With tworound fronted towers, each surmounted by a lofty and elegant mad'neh, ormenaret, pertaining to the adjoining great mosque of El Mueiyad, itpresents a very noble appearance. 27. "Imperial gypsum" is a name given to the best kind of plasterused in Cairo. I have often admired the smoothness of its surface uponthe walls of chambers in some of the older houses in that city. but, Ineed hardly say, never saw any that reflected like a mirror. 28. In the Cairo edition, "with pearls and jewels at its corners."The deficiency I have supplied from the edition of Breslau: but I mayhere remark, that it would have been more proper to describe the snakesas _gilt_. 29. _On the Crowns worn by Arab Ladies._ From Eastern drawings anddescriptions, it appears that the kind of crown here mentioned wasgenerally a circle of jewelled gold (the lower edge of which wasstraight. and the upper, fancifully heightened to four or more points)surrounding the lower part of a dome shaped cap with a jewel or someother ornament at the summit. This crown was worn by many Arab ladies ofhigh rank or great wealth, probably until about two centuries ago.Another kind of crown is now more generally worn, called a "ur." Thisis a round, convex ornament, generally about five inches in diameter,composed of gold set with a profusion of diamonds, of open work,representing roses, leaves,  c. It is sewed upon the top of thearboosh. and is worn by most of the ladies of Cairo, at least in fulldress. An engraving of a crown of this description, and another of oneof a more common kind, may be seen in my work on the Modern Egyptians,vol. ii. Appendix A. 30. It is a common custom of the Arabs to give a present of moneytied up in a corner of an embroidered handkerchief. 31. The mace is a weapon still used in the East. but not socommonly as it was in former times. There was a petty governor in UpperEgypt during my first visit to that country, who, in his daily rides,indulged a frequent habit of striking persons with a weapon of thiskind, a tolerably heavy steel mace. but he did it with a happy knack, soas never, I believe, to inflict a dangerous wound, unless intentionally.Maces, like other arms of steel, are often tastefully inlaid witharabesque ornaments and inscriptions in gold. 32. _On the Punishment of Theft._ The Mohammadan law ordains thata person who is adult and of sound mind, if he steals an article of thevalue of a quarter of a deenar (or piece of gold) from a place to whichhe has not ordinary or free access, shall lose his right hand. but thispunishment is not to be inflicted for stealing a free child, or anythingwhich, in the eye of the law, is of no pecuniary value. as wine, or amusical instrument. and there are some other cases in which the thief isnot to be so punished. For the second offence, the left foot is to becut off. and for the third and subsequent offences, according to theanafee code, the culprit is to be punished by a long imprisonment. or,by the Shafe'ee law, for the third offence, he is to lose his left hand.for the fourth, his right foot. and for further offences, he is to beflogged or beaten. The punishment is the same for a woman as for aman. This law induced a freethinking Muslim to ask, "If the hand isworth five hundred deenars, (this being the fine for depriving a man ofthat member,) why should it be cut off for a quarter of a deenar?" Hewas answered, "An honest hand is of great value. but not so is the handthat hath stolen." Amputation for theft is now seldom practised:beating, or some other punishment, is usually inflicted in its stead forthe first, second, and third offence. and, frequently, death for thefourth. 33. Capital punishment in this case would be contrary to the law.but it is often inflicted upon highway robbers. 34. The meaning is, that the doer is God. An allusion is hereconveyed to a verse (the 17th) in the Soorat el Anfal (the eighthchapter of the ur an) "Thou didst not cast (the gravel into theireyes) when thou didst 35. The honour that is due to the human body requires that anyportion disunited from it be decently deposited in the earth. 36. As a hair, for instance, is drawn from paste. 37. These verses are founded on a tradition of the Prophet. 38. _On_ Khatmehs, _or Recitations of the whole of the_ ur an _atPrivate Festivities._ The most approved and common mode of entertainingguests at modern private festivities among the Arabs is by a Khatmeh,which is the recitation of the whole of the ur an. Three or morepersons of the inferior class of the professors of religion and law, whoare called faeehs (vulgarly, fiees), are usually hired for thispurpose. Schoolmasters, and students of the collegiate mosques whodevote themselves to religion and law, are the persons most commonlythus employed. Their mode of recitation is a peculiar kind ofchanting, which, when well executed, I found very agreeable, atleast for an hour or so: but the guests seldom have to listen to thechanting of the whole of the ur an: the reciters usually accomplish thegreater portion of their task, in a somewhat hurried manner, before theguests have assembled, each of them chanting, in turn, a certainportion, as a thirtieth part of the whole (called a "juz"), or half ofone of these sections (a "ezb"), or, more commonly, a quarter (ruba).Afterwards they chant more leisurely, and in a more musical manner. butstill by turns. These recitations of the whole of the ur an areperformed on various festive occasions, but are most usual after adeath. the merit of the performance being transferred to the soul of thedeceased. 39. The mess termed "zirbajeh," by some called "zurbajeh," from thePersian "zeerbaj," is a kind of spoon meat. Some of its ingredients aredescribed in the sequel of the present story. 40. _On Atonements and other Services for the Dead._ As filialpiety is a general characteristic of the Arabs, and various services arebelieved by them to atone for the minor sins of the deceased, and thusto diminish his misery, or to increase his happiness, it is natural, andnot uncommon, for a son to act in the manner here related. Recitationsof the ur an are performed for the dead, to whom the merit of theseworks is transferred, and a sacrifice is often offered at the tomb afterthe burial. the flesh of the victim being distributed to the poor. But amore important service for the deceased is the payment of his debts. forit is affirmed by the Prophet, that even martyrdom will not atone for adebt unpaid. 41. A money changer is very frequently employed to examine themoney which a purchaser offers. and if it be old, to weigh it. Themoney changers are mostly Jews and Christians. 42. Some mosques (as the Azhar, for instance, the principal mosqueof Cairo) remain open all night. and many houseless persons sleep inthem, upon the matting which covers the paved floor. Men are also oftenseen, at other times, but not at the hours of prayer, lounging, eating,or working, in the mosques. such practices not being deemed inconsistentwith the high respect which the Muslims pay to these buildings. 43. The remainder of this paragraph, and the whole of the next twoparagraphs, being omitted in the edition of Cairo, I translate from theCalcutta edition of the first two hundred nights, and the edition ofBreslau. but almost entirely from the former. 44. The water of the well of Zemzem, in the temple of Mekkeh, isbelieved to possess miraculous virtues, and is therefore brought away inbottles or flasks by many of the pilgrims, to be used when occasion mayrequire as medicine, or to be sprinkled on grave linen. A bottle of itis a common and acceptable present from a pilgrim, and a guest issometimes treated with a sip of this holy water. 45. A whip is sometimes used in the areem of a great man. and itsbeing attached to the waist of the damsel here mentioned marks herauthority. It is generally formed of a strip of hippopotamus' hide,hammered into a round shape. and this kind is called a "kurbaj." Ibelieve it is seldom used in the areem with severity. but usually forintimidation. (I once saw some of the ladies of Nazlee Khanim (thusvulgarly pronounced for Nazloo Khanum) struck with a kurbaj, for toocuriously looking in at the window of an apartment in that lady'spalace, in which I and some friends happened to be, and which overlookedthe private garden. They were speedily driven away by two or three blackeunuchs, who appeared to use their heavy whips indiscriminately andseverely. their excuse for this conduct undoubtedly being, that theseladies were guilty of a great impropriety in thus shewing themselves tomen. for when riding abroad, it is usual for passengers in the streetsto turn their faces to the wall on the approach of the women of a greatman's household. Moreover, the areem of Nazlee Khanim was well known tobe ruled with an iron hand, and its mistress herself to have acquiredthe character of her brutal husband, Moammad Bey, the Defterdar, whosecruelties are mentioned in the "Modern Egyptians." ED.) 46. It is a universal custom of the Arabs, on visiting the sick, tosay, "May our Lord restore thee!" or, "No evil befall thee!"  c. 47. The first hospital built by a Muslim was that of Damascus,founded by El Weleed the son of 'Abd El Melik, in the eighty eighth yearof the Flight (A. D. 706 7). The Arabs would deprive St. Ephrem Syrus ofthe honour of having been the author of the first institution of thiskind. one of their historians ascribing it to an early Pharaoh, namedMenaiyoosh. another, to Hippocrates. 48. The remainder of the paragraph is translated from the Calcuttaedition of the first two hundred nights.Note 49. "The metropolis of the world," or literally, "the mother of theworld" ("umm ed dunya"), is a title given to several cities, as well asto Cairo, by their respective inhabitants. This passage, therefore, andothers of a similar kind, in which even _foreigners_ are made to rankEgypt and Cairo as superior to every other country and city, stronglyfavour the opinion that some of its tales were written, or altered, byan Egyptian. 50. A more ample eulogium upon Egypt and the Nile, but aboundingwith such gross errors that I could not confidently offer a translation,is found in the Breslau edition. It agrees better with the oldtranslation. which, however, in this place, presents considerableunauthorized amplifications, and some misconceptions: "Birket el abash"(for instance), the name of a lake on the south of Cairo, being mistakenfor Ethiopia. 51. For this monthly rent (or about a guinea of our money), a largeand handsome house may be hired at the present day in Cairo. 52. After the amputation of the hand for theft, the stump isusually plunged in boiling pitch or tar, or oil, to stanch the blood. 53. _On Retaliation and Fines for Wounds and Mutilations._Retaliation for intentional wounds and mutilations is allowed by theMohammadan law, like as for murder. "eye for eye,"  c.: but a finemay be accepted instead, which the law allows also for unintentionalinjuries. The fine for a member that is single (as the nose) is thewhole price of blood, as for homicide. namely a thousand deenars (about500_l._) from him who possesses gold. or, from him who possessessilver, twelve thousand dirhems (about 300_l._). for a member of whichthere are two, and not more (as a hand), half the price of blood. forone of which there are ten (a finger or toe), a tenth of the price ofblood: but the fine of a man for maiming or wounding a woman is half ofthat for the same injury to a man. and that of a free person forinjuring a slave varies according to the value of the slave. The finefor depriving a man of any of his five senses, or dangerously woundinghim, or grievously disfiguring him for life, is the whole price ofblood. 54. See No. 20 of the notes to Chapter ii. "The women of Egypthave the character of being the most licentious in their feelings of allfemales who lay any claim to be considered as members of a civilizednation. and this character is freely bestowed upon them by their_countrymen_, even in conversation with foreigners." In the workfrom which the above passage is quoted, I have expatiated upon thissubject more than I need do in the present case. 55. The Arabs are generally of opinion that the innate dispositionsof a child are inherited more from the mother than from the father. Theybelieve that a daughter commonly resembles, in good or evil qualities,her mother. and a son, his maternal uncle. Hence they often address aman, "Ya eiyib el khal!" "O thou who hast a good maternal uncle!" 56. 'Abd Allah Ibn 'Abbas was one of the most learned of thecompanions of his cousin Moammad, and one of the most celebrated of therelaters of his sayings and actions. He has received the titles of"Interpreter of the ur an" and "Sulan of Commentators." He died in theyear of the Flight 68. His father, 'Abbas, the son of 'Abd El Mualib,was paternal uncle of Moammad, and ancestor of the 'Abbasee Khaleefehs. 57. _On the Astrolabe._ The astrolabe is more commonly used by theArabs than any other instrument for astronomical observations. It isgenerally between four and six inches in diameter. It consists of acircular plate with a graduated rim, within which fit several thinnerplates, and of a limb, moving on a pivot in the centre, with two sights.The plates are engraved with complicated diagrams,  c., for variouscalculations. The instrument is held by a ring, or by a loop of cordattached to the ring, during an observation. and thus its own weightanswers the same purpose as the plumb line of the quadrant (which theArabs sometimes use in its stead). the position of the moveable limbwith the sights marking the required altitude. 58. afar is the second mouth of the Mohammadan year. 59. As different copies vary here as to the date, I have taken theliberty of putting 263 instead of 763 or 653, in order to avoid aglaring anachronism. It is probable, however, that the last of these isthe author's date, as it is found both in the old translation, and inthe Breslau edition. The date in the Cairo edition is 763. 60. A degree is four minutes. it would have been more proper,therefore, to have said, eight degrees and two minutes, than sevendegrees and six minutes. 61. "E amit" signifies "the Silent." 62. This and the two following names, or rather, surnames, conveythe same meaning. Baboo, Heddar, and Baba (here, in my original,erroneously written Yaya), signify "Chatterer." "El Kooz el Awanee"(not to be mistaken for "      Aswanee," with a _soft_ s) seems toimply that the person thus named was always like a mug, with open mouth,and insensible as flint to rebuke. The two remaining names are differentin different copies: "Shaali" is perhaps put erroneously for someother word, as "Shia," "Discord." 63. ur an, ch. iii. v. 128. 64. The Arabs generally carry their young children in this manner,seated astride upon the shoulder. 65. This expression is borrowed from the ur an, ch. xlviii. v. 10.The meaning is, "there is no power of man, but God's power is superiorto it." 66. The Prophet (Moammad) is always alluded to when this form ofbenediction is used and the name of the person to whom it is applied isnot mentioned. 67. "Nedd" is a perfume composed of ambergris, musk, and aloeswood. or simply ambergris. 68. Two khubehs are recited on the occasion of the congregationalFriday prayers. It is the first of these which is here alluded to. Seethe next note. 69. _On the Congregational Friday prayers._ The Selam (orSalutation) of Friday is a form of blessing on the Prophet and hisfamily and companions, which is chanted by the mueddins from themad'nehs (or towers) of the congregational mosques half an hour beforenoon. The worshippers begin to assemble in the mosque as soon as theyhear it, and, ranging themselves in rows parallel to, and facing, thatside in which is the niche, that marks the direction of Mekkeh, eachperforms, by himself, the prayers of two rek'ahs, which aresupererogatory, and then sits in his place while a reader recites partor the whole of the 18th chapter of the ur an. At the call of noon,they all stand up, and each again performs, separately, the prayers oftwo rek'ahs, ordained by the Prophet. A minister, standing at the footof the pulpit stairs, then proposes to bless the Prophet: andaccordingly, a second Selam is chanted by one or more other ministersstationed on an elevated platform. After this, the former minister, andthe latter after him, repeat the call of noon (which the mueddins havebefore chanted from the mad'nehs). and the former enjoins silence. Thechief minister (Khaeeb, or Imam,) has already seated himself on the topstep or platform of the pulpit. He now rises, and recites a khubeh ofpraise to God and exhortation to the congregation. and if in a countryor town acquired by arms from unbelievers, he holds a wooden sword,resting its point on the ground. Each of the congregation nextoffers up some private supplication. after which, the Khaeeb recites asecond khubeh, which is always the same, or nearly so. part, of asimilar nature to the first, but chiefly, prayer for the Prophet and hisfamily,  c., and for the general welfare of the Muslims. This finished,the Khaeeb or Imam descends from the pulpit, and, stationed before theniche, after a form of words differing slightly from the call toprayer has been chanted by the ministers on the elevated platform beforementioned, recites the divinely ordained prayers of Friday (tworek'ahs), while the people do the same silently, keeping time with himexactly in the various postures. Thus are completed the Friday prayers.but some of the congregation remain, and perform the ordinarydivinely ordained prayers of noon. 70. So in the Cairo edition. El Muntair bi llah was thegreat grandson of Haroon Er Rasheed, and acceded to the throne in theyear of the Flight 247 (A.D. 861). A slight anachronism, therefore, ishere presented, unless we suppose that the hero of the story told bythe Sulan's steward was an old man at the period of the misfortune ofthe humpback. The reign of El Muntair was somewhat less than sixmonths. The copy from which the old translation was made, and theedition of Breslau, date the adventure of the barber, here related, morethan three centuries and a half later, in the reign of El Mustairbi llah. 71. The practice of spunging, or the intrusion of strangers atentertainments, has long been very prevalent in Arab towns. An instancehas been given towards the close of Note 22 to Chapter iii. 72. I have altered the order in which the brothers are described,and omitted two particulars, to agree with the sequel. 73. The next paragraph is translated from the Calcutta edition ofthe first two hundred nights. being omitted in the Cairo edition. Anequal portion, later, is wanting in the old translation. 74. _On Augurations with respect to Marriage._ This passagealludes to an astrological calculation made with the view of determiningby what sign of the zodiac the two persons are influenced whocontemplate becoming man and wife, and thence ascertaining whether theywill agree. This is often done in the present day by adding together thenumerical values of the letters composing his or her name and that ofthe mother, and, if I remember right, subtracting from 12 the whole sumif this is less than 12, or what remains after subtracting, or dividingby, 12. Thus is obtained the number of the sign. The twelve signs,commencing with Aries, correspond respectively with the elements offire, earth, air, water, fire, earth, and so on. and if the signs of thetwo parties indicate the same element, it is inferred that they willagree. but if they indicate different elements, the inference is, thatthe one will be affected by the other in the same manner as the elementof the one is by that of the other: thus, if the element of the man isfire, and that of the woman, water, he will be subject to her rule.Among other calculations of the same kind is the following, which mysheykh has mentioned in a marginal note on this passage, in the copyfrom which I translate. The numerical values of the letters composingthe name of each of the two parties are added together, and one of thesetwo sums is subtracted from the other: if the remainder is an unevennumber, the inference is unfavourable. but if even, the reverse.In the present instance, the dupe, knowing that there are various modesof divining whether he will be happy with his wife, is made to believethat his fortune depends upon the mode, instead of the result, of thecalculation. 75. Here, in my original, "Baba." but this, as before mentioned,was the name of the _third_ brother. 76. "uffeh," signifying "a basket of palm leaves," and "a drygourd," seems to be here equivalent to "empty head." 77. The blind in Egypt are notorious for their impudence. It isrelated that Moses, while bathing one day in the Nile, saw a blind manpass by, and, being moved with pity, prayed that God would restore hissight. His prayer was answered. but as soon as the eyes of the blind manwere opened, he seized the clothes of his benefactor, which were lyingon the bank, and protested that they were his own. Moses, therefore, nowprayed that the thief might be struck blind again. and God, answeringhis prayer, said, O Moses, know that I am wiser than thou with respectto my creatures. This tradition was related to me in Cairo. 78. It is generally thus that an injured Muslim calls others to hisaid. 79. Like the natives of Egypt in the period of the Romandomination, its modern inhabitants, and the Arabs of othercountries (though, I believe, in a less degree), are notorious for theirobstinacy in refusing to pay their taxes until they have been severelybeaten. They well know that, the more readily they pay, the more will beexacted from them. and are often heard to boast of the number of stripeswhich they have received before yielding their money. The same obstinacyis generally displayed by an Arab accused of any offence. and often,even by a witness: in either case the man fears that, should he tell atonce all he can, the judge will try whether the stick or the kurbajwill elicit a further confession. 80. _On the general Corruptness of Muslim Judges._ Khir Bey(whether he was a judge I do not know), conversing one day with hisfriends on the difficulties experienced in the exercise of judicature,one of the company remarked, "In my opinion, the greatest difficultythat is met with is, when one of the parties is rich, and the other,poor." "In that case," replied Khir Bey, "I find none. for it is clearthat the rich will gain his cause, and the poor will lose: but the greatdifficulty is, when the two parties are equally rich and powerful. Ifthou, he continued, being a poor man, have a suit against one who isrich and powerful, beware of applying to the aee. for he will not failto condemn thee: my advice is, that thou desist altogether from thysuit, and rather throw thyself at the feet of thine adversary. for thouwilt obtain more justice from him than from the aee." For ajustification of the opinion here expressed, see my work on the ModernEgyptians, vol. i. ch. iv. 81. _On good and evil Omens._ Of omens I have already treated, inNote 15 to Chapter i.: but a few words on this subject must be hereadded. It is common to draw a lucky or unlucky omen from the firstobject seen on going out in the morning. and according as that object ispleasant or the contrary, the person says, "my morning is good," or"   bad." A one eyed man is regarded as of evil omen. and especiallyone who is blind of the _left_ eye. Many a person is related to havesuffered for having an unlucky countenance. 82. The portion of this story comprised in the first paragraphhaving been the subject of a specimen of the present publication,translated from the Calcutta edition of the first two hundred nights,and printed and distributed when I had not in my possession the copy ofthe original which I have taken as my general standard, it is here givennearly in the same words: I have only made a few slight additions andalterations derived from a comparison of the two editions. Some of thenotes inserted in the specimen I omit in this place, as they relate tomatters already explained. Hole remarks (in page 223), that this partof the Barber's story of his Fifth Brother is derived "from an Indianfable of the remotest antiquity ... found in the Heeto pades ofVeeshnoo Sarma," in which a Brahman "inadvertently breaks his potteryware ... with a walking stick ... in the act of suppressing theoutrageous jealousy of four beautiful but turbulent wives." 83. "El Feshshar" signifies "the Foolish Talker," or "VainBoaster." I have substituted this name for "El 'Ashshar," the reading inmy original. In the Arabic characters, the latter differs from theformer in little more than the want of a point, and has no appropriatemeaning. It appears that, in most copies of the original, the barber'sFifth Brother is surnamed "En Neshshar," or "the Sawyer," perhaps inallusion to his incessant loquacity: but this, also, in the Arabiccharacters, very nearly resembles "El Feshshar," which I doubt not to bethe right name. 84. There is nothing very extravagant in this hope of the barber'sbrother. for in the East, persons frequently rise from very low to veryhigh stations. and it is remarkable that, notwithstanding their usualpride, they generally retain the appellation of the trade or craft whichthey or their fathers pursued, however ignoble, before their elevation.It is common for a great man to distinguish himself by adding to hisname the appellation of "the druggist or perfumer," or "the grocer," c.. and he is not a whit the less respected on this account. 85. The Eastern grandee rides not at the head or rear of hisattendants, but in the midst of them. 86. Persons distinguished by rank or wealth or learning are salutedby many of the shopkeepers and passengers as they pass through thestreets of Eastern cities, and often greeted with a short ejaculatoryprayer for the continuance of their life and happiness. When a verygreat man rides through the streets, most of the shopkeepers rise tohim, and pay their respect to him by inclining the head, and touchingthe lips and forehead or turban with the fingers of the right hand. 87. See Note 12 to Chapter iii. 88. He could scarcely shew his pride more strongly. for it is anaffront to reject a present. 89. An Arab lady of high rank seldom makes use of her feet but tomove from one chamber to another. when she goes abroad, she alwaysrides: to stand for many minutes together is, therefore, fatiguing toher. 90. See the close of Note 39 to Chapter iv. 91. This is said either to shew his vulgarity or that the weatherwas sultry. 92. "El Meleeah" signifies "the Beautiful:" it is derived from"mil" (salt,  c.). 93. An occurrence of a similar nature, which happened a few yearsago in Cairo, was related to me by one of my friends there. An oldwoman frequented the tomb of a saint in that city, near the eastern gatecalled the Bab el Maroo, to which many women afflicted with disease orbarrenness often resorted to offer up prayers, believing their petitionswould be effectual through the saint's intercession. and she was in thehabit of enticing ladies from this tomb to the house of her husband,which was near by, under pretence of his serving them with medicines orwith charms. The unsuspecting victim, being desired to go thither alone,was conducted by the old woman to an upper room, at the end of which theman was seated. and in walking over the matted floor to approach him,suddenly fell through a trap door into a place so deep that the fallrendered her senseless. In this state, she was put to death. and asladies in Cairo always wear valuable ornaments and costly clothes, themurderers were sure of obtaining considerable spoil. 94. This money, we are to understand, was prepared for the purposeof giving those presents which are customary from a guest at amarriage festivity. but the mention of a smaller sum would have beenmore proper. It is given to the singing women and tire women who, ingreat houses, parade the bride through the different apartments, anddisplay her in different rich suits of attire before the bridegroom. 95. _On the Handkerchief, and Signet, of Indemnity._ Sometimes,the handkerchief, and sometimes, the signet, or seal ring, is given as apledge of indemnity. It was a frequent custom of many a chief of theMemlooks of Egypt (there commonly called "the Ghuzz"), to bastinade menin the court of his mansion (when he desired to make a show of strictjustice), in order that one of the women of the family, hearing thecries, might drop a handkerchief from a window, and so the punishmentmight soon cease, in respect for the areem, whose protection is oftenappealed to by offenders. 96. The title of "Sulan" is here, and afterwards, given to theKhaleefeh. and it has been so employed by a celebrated historian,El Mareezee. 97. So, apparently, in most copies. but in the Cairo edition, "ofthe sons of the Kings." It is said to have been a custom of some of theBarmekees (the family so renowned for their generosity) to keep openhouse during the hours of meals, and to allow no one who applied at suchtimes for admission to be repulsed. 98. "Sikbaj" is a dish composed of meat, wheat flour, and vinegar. 99. "aaif" is a name applied to various kinds of sweet pastry:particularly to a kind of small pancakes, made of a thin paste of fineflour and water, about three inches broad, and a sixth of an inch orless in thickness, baked upon a copper tray over a fire, like kunafeh(the composition of which is the same), and eaten with honey or sugar:also to cakes composed of fine flour, treacle or honey, and sesame oil.The sirup mentioned in the same sentence is (as my sheykh states in amarginal note) treacle thickened over the fire. The proper singular ofaaif, namely, "aeefeh," is seldom used. one of these cakes beinggenerally called "fard aaif." Sometimes, it appears, they wereperfumed with musk. 100. The "mithal" is the weight of a deenar, or a dirhem and ahalf, in Cairo, about 71 1/2 or 72 English grains. 101. See above, Note 96. 102. By "Arabs," we are here to understand Bedawees, or Arabs ofthe Desert, who are termed, by the older writers, "Aarab," or"Aarabees." but in my original, as in other late works, "'Arab," whichwas the _old_ appellation of the _townspeople_ and _villagers_.