There was of old time in the city of Cairo a man called Numan, and he had a son. One day when this boy's time to learn to read was fully come he took him to a school and gave to a teacher. This Numan was exceeding poor, so that he followed the calling of a water seller, and in this way he supported his wife and child.When the teacher had made the boy read through the Koran, he told the boy to fetch him his present. So the boy came and told his father.His father said, "O son, the Koran is the Word of God Most High, we have nothing worthy of it. there is our camel with which I follow my trade of water seller, take it at least and give it to thy teacher."The boy took the camel and brought it to his teacher. But that day his father could gain no money, and that night his wife and his son and himself remained hungry.Now his wife was a great scold, and when she saw this thing she said, "Out on thee, husband, art thou mad? Where are thy senses gone? Thou hadst a camel, and by means of it we made shift to live, and now thou hast taken and given it in a present. would that that boy had not been born, or that thou hadst not sent him to read. what is he and what his reading?'And she made so much noise and clamor that it cannot be described. Numan saw this thing, and he bowed down his head, and from the greatness of his distress he fell asleep.In his dream a radiant elder, white bearded and clad in white raiment, came and said, "O Numan, thy portion is in Damascus. go, take it."Just then Numan awoke and he saw no one, and he arose and said, "Is the vision divine or is it satanic?"While saying this, he again fell asleep, and again he saw it. Brief, the elder appeared three times to him that night in his dream and said, "Indeed is thy provision in Damascus. delay not, go to Damascus and take it."When it was morning Numan spake to his wife of the vision. his wife said, "Thou gavest away our camel and didst leave us hungry, and now thou canst not abide our complaints and wishest to run off. I fear thou wilt leave thy child and me here and go off."Numan said, "My life, I will not run off."Quoth the woman, "I will not bide, I will not bide. where thou goest I too will go with thee."Numan sware that he would not run off, and the woman was persuaded and let him go.So Numan went forth. and one day he entered Damascus, and he went in through the gate of the Amawi Mosque. That day someone had baked bread in an oven and was taking it to his house. when he saw Numan opposite him and knew him to be a stranger, he gave him a loaf. Numan took it and ate it, and lay down through fatigue and fell asleep.That elder again came to him in his vision and said, "0 Numan, thou hast received thy provision. delay not, go back to thy house."Numan awoke and was amazed and said, "Then our bearing this much trouble and weariness was for a loaf."And he returned. One day he entered his house, and the woman looked and saw there was nothing in his hand. and Numan told her.When the woman learned that Numan had brought nothing, she turned and said, "Out on thee, husband, thou art become mad, thou art a worthless man. had thy senses been in thy head, thou hadst not given away our camel, the source of our support, and left us thus friendless and hungry and thirsty. not a day but thou doest some mad thing."And she complained much. And Numan's heart was broken by the weariness of the road and the complaining of the woman, and he fell asleep.Again in his vision that elder came and said, "O Numan, delay not, arise, dig close by thee, thy provision is there, take it."But Numan heeded not. Three times the elder appeared to him in his dream and said, "Thy provision is indeed close by thee. arise, take it."So Numan, unable to resist, arose and took a pick axe and shovel and began to dig where his head had lain.The woman made mock of Numan and said, "Out on thee, man. the half of the treasure revealed to thee is mine."Numan replied, "So be it. but I am weary, come thou and dig a bit that I may take breath a little."The woman said, "Thou art not weary now. when thou art weary I will help."Numan went on: and when he had dug as deep as half the height of a man, a marble slab appeared. The woman saw the marble and, saying in herself, "This is not empty," she asked the pick axe from Numan.Numan said, "Have patience a little longer."The woman said, "Thou art weary."Numan replied, "Now am I rested."Quoth the woman, "I am sorry for thee, thou dost not know kindness."While thus talking they saw that one side of that marble was pierced and that there was a hole. Thereupon grew Numan eager, and he pulled the marble from its place, and below it was a well and a ladder. He caught hold of the ladder and went down and saw a royal vase filled full with red gold, and he called out to the woman, "Come here."Thereupon the woman descended likewise and saw the vase of gold, and she threw her arms round Numan's neck and said, "O my noble little husband! Blessed be God, for thy luck and thy fortune."Numan took up some of these sequins, and the woman said, "What wilt thou do?"Numan replied, "I shall take these to our king and tell him that there is a vase full of them, and that an elder came to me in my dream and told me, and I shall say, 'Take them all. and, if thou wilt, bestow on me a few of them that I and my wife may eat and drink, and in our comfort may bless and praise thee.'"Quoth the woman, "My life, husband, speak not to our king now, so that all of them may remain ours and we shall have ease of heart."Numan listened not, but took them and laid them before the king.The king said, "What is this?"Numan answered, "O king, I found them in thy ground." And he told of the elder's coming in his dream and of there being a vase full of them, and said, "O king, send a slave of thine, and he will return. and I shall accept the king's alms, whatever it may be."The king said to a scribe, "Come, read this, let us see from whose time it has remained."When the scribe took the sequin into his hand he saw that there was written on the one side of it, "This is an alms from before God to Numan." Then the scribe turned over the other side and saw that it was thus written on that side, "By reason of his respect toward the Koran."When the scribe had read the inscriptions to the king, the king said, "What is thy name?"He replied, "My name is Numan."The king caused all these sequins to be read, and the writing on the whole of them was the same.The king said, "Go ye and bring some from the bottom of the vase."And they went and brought some from the bottom of the vase, and they read them, and they all bore the inscription of the first. And the king wondered and said, "Go, poor man, God Most High has given it thee, on my part too be it lawful for thee. come, take these sequins also."So Numan took them and went to his house, and he took out the sequins that were in the vase. and he enjoyed delight in the world until he died, and in the hereafter he attained a lofty station. And all this felicity was for his respect to the glorious Koran.