Gesta RomanorumThe Emperor Gallus employed a singularly skilful carpenter in the erectionof a magnificent palace. At that period, a certain knight lived who had avery beautiful daughter. and who, perceiving the extraordinary sagacity ofthe artificer, determined to give him the lady in marriage.Calling him, therefore, he said, "My good friend, ask of me what you will.so that it be possible, I will do it, provided you marry my daughter."The other assented, and the nuptial rites were celebrated accordingly.Then the mother of the lady said to the carpenter, "My son, since you havebecome one of our family, I will bestow upon you a curious shirt. Itpossesses this singular property, that as long as you and your wife arefaithful to each other, it will neither be rent, nor worn, nor stained.But if   which Heaven forbid!   either of you prove unfaithful,instantly it will lose its virtue."The carpenter, very happy in what he heard, took the shirt, and returnedgreat thanks for the gift. A short while afterward, the carpenter beingsent for to superintend the building of the emperor's palace, took withhim the valuable present which he had received. He continued, absent untilthe structure was complete. and numbers, observing how much he labored,admired the freshness and spotless purity of his shirt.Even the emperor condescended to notice it, and said to him, "My master,how is it that in despite of your laborious occupation, and the constantuse of your shirt, it still preserves its color and beauty?""You must know, my Lord," said he, "that as long as my wife and I continuefaithful to each other, my shirt retains its original whiteness andbeauty. but if either of us forget our matrimonial vows, it will sullylike any other cloth."A soldier, overhearing this, thought within himself, "If I can I will makeyou wash your shirt."Wherefore, without giving any cause of suspicion to the carpenter, hesecretly hastened to his house, and solicited his wife to dishonor. Shereceived him with an appearance of pleasure, and seemed to be entirelyinfluenced by the same feelings. "But," added she, "in this place we areexposed to observation. come with me, and I will conduct you into aprivate chamber."He followed her, and closing the door, she said, "Wait here awhile. I willreturn presently."Thus she did every day, all the time supplying him only with bread andwater. Without regard to his urgency, she compelled him to endure thishumiliating treatment. and before long, two other soldiers came to herfrom the emperor's court, with the same evil views. In like manner, shedecoyed them into the chamber, and fed them with bread and water. Thesudden disappearance, however, of the three soldiers gave rise to muchinquiry. and the carpenter, on the completion of his labors, received thestipulated sum, and returned to his own home.His virtuous wife met him with joy, and looking upon the spotless shirt,exclaimed, "Blessed be God! Our truth is made apparent   there is not asingle stain upon the shirt."To which he replied, "My beloved, during the progress of the building,three soldiers, one after another, came to ask questions about the shirt.I related the fact, and since that time nothing has been heard of them."The lady smiled, and said, "The soldiers respecting whom you feel anxiousthought me a fit subject for their improper solicitation, and came hitherwith the vilest intent. I decoyed them into a remote chamber, and have fedthem with bread and water."The carpenter, delighted with this proof of his wife's fidelity, sparedtheir lives, and liberated them. and he and his wife lived happily for therest of their lives.My beloved, the emperor is God . the palace is the human heart. The knightwho married his daughter to the carpenter is Christ. the carpenter is anygood Christian, and the mother is the Church. The shirt is faith. thethree soldiers are pride, lusts of the eyes, and lusts of the heart.