Gesta RomanorumThe Emperor Theodosius had the misfortune to lose his sight. He put up a bell in his palace. and the law was, that whoever had any suit to make should pull the string with his own hands. When the bell rang, a judge, appointed to this end, descended and administered justice.It chanced that a serpent made her nest immediately under the bell rope, and in due time brought forth young. When they were old enough, one day she conducted them forth to enjoy the fresh air beyond the city. Now, while the serpent was absent, a toad entered and occupied her nest. When, therefore, the former returned with her young, she found the toad in possession, and instantly began an attack. But the latter baffled her attempts, and obstinately maintained his station. The serpent, perceiving her inability to eject the intruder, coiled her tail around the bell rope, and forcibly rang the bell. as though she had said, "Descend, judge, and give me justice. for the toad has wrongfully seized my nest."The judge, hearing the bell, descended. but not seeing anyone, returned. The serpent, finding her design abortive, once more sounded the alarm. The judge again appeared, and upon this occasion, seeing the serpent attached to the bell rope, and the toad in possession of her nest, declared the whole circumstance to the emperor."Go down, my lord," said the latter, "and not only drive away the toad, but kill him. let the serpent possess her right."All which was done. On a subsequent day, as the king lay in his bed, the serpent entered the bedchamber carrying a precious stone in her mouth. The servants, perceiving this, informed the emperor, who gave directions that they should not harm it. "for," added he, "it will do me no injury."The serpent, gliding along, ascended the bed, and approaching the emperor's eyes, let the stone fall upon them, and immediately left the room. No sooner, however, had the stone touched the eyes than their sight was completely restored. Infinitely rejoiced at what had happened, the emperor made inquiry after the serpent, but it was not heard of again. He carefully treasured this invaluable stone, and ended his days in peace.My beloved, the emperor is any worldly minded man who is blind to spiritual affairs. The bell is the tongue of a preacher. the cord is the Bible. The serpent is a wise confessor, who brings forth young   that is, good works. But prelates and confessors are often timid and negligent, and follow earthly more than heavenly matters. and then the toad, which is the devil, occupies their place. The serpent carries a stone   and the confessor the Sacred Writings, which alone are able to give sight to the blind.