A father had two sons, the elder of whom was forward and clever enoughto do almost anything. but the younger was so stupid that he could learnnothing, and when the people saw him they said, "Will thy father stillkeep thee as a burden to him?" So, if anything was to be done, the elderhad at all times to do it. but sometimes the father would call him tofetch something in the dead of night, and perhaps the way led throughthe churchyard or by a dismal place, and then he used to answer, "No,father, I cannot go there, I am afraid," for he was a coward. Orsometimes of an evening, tales were told by the fireside which made oneshudder, and the listeners exclaimed, "Oh, it makes us shiver!" In acorner, meanwhile, sat the younger son, listening, but he could notcomprehend what was said, and he thought, "They say continually, 'Oh, itmakes us shiver, it makes us shiver!' but perhaps shivering is an artwhich I cannot understand." One day, however, his father said to him,"Do you hear, you there in the corner? You are growing stout and big.you must learn some trade to get your living by. Do you see how yourbrother works? But as for you, you are not worth malt and hops.""Ah, father," answered he, "I would willingly learn something. Whenshall I begin? I want to know what shivering means, for of that I canunderstand nothing."The elder brother laughed when he heard this speech, and thought tohimself, "Ah! my brother is such a simpleton that he cannot earn his ownliving. He who would make a good hedge must learn betimes to bend." Butthe father sighed and said, "What shivering means you may learn soonenough, but you will never get your bread by that."Soon after the parish sexton came in for a gossip, so the father toldhim his troubles, and how that his younger son was such a simpleton thathe knew nothing and could learn nothing. "Just fancy, when I asked himhow he intended to earn his bread, he desired to learn what shiveringmeant!" "Oh, if that be all," answered the sexton, "he can learn thatsoon enough with me. just send him to my place, and I will soon teachhim." The father was very glad, because he thought that it would do theboy good. so the sexton took him home to ring the bells. About two daysafterward he called him up at midnight to go into the church tower totoll the bell. "You shall soon learn what shivering means," thought thesexton, and getting up he went out too. As soon as the boy reached thebelfry, and turned himself round to seize the rope, he saw upon thestairs, near the sounding hole, a white figure. "Who's there?" he calledout. but the figure gave no answer, and neither stirred nor spoke."Answer," said the boy, "or make haste off. you have no business hereto night." But the sexton did not stir, so that the boy might think itwas a ghost.The boy called out a second time, "What are you doing here? Speak, ifyou are an honest fellow, or else I will throw you downstairs."The sexton said to himself, "That is not a bad thought". but he remainedquiet as if he were a stone. Then the boy called out for the third time,but it produced no effect. so, making a spring, he threw the ghost downthe stairs, so that it rolled ten steps, and then lay motionless in acorner. Thereupon he rang the bell, and then going home, he went to bedwithout saying a word, and fell fast asleep. The sexton's wife waitedsome time for her husband, but he did not come. so at last she becameanxious, woke the boy, and asked him if he knew where her husband was,who had gone before him to the belfry."No," answered the boy. "but there was someone standing on the steps whowould not give any answer, nor go away, so I took him for a thief andthrew him downstairs. Go now and see where he is. perhaps it may be he,but I should be sorry for it." The wife ran off and found her husbandlying in a corner, groaning, with one of his ribs broken.She took him up and ran with loud outcries to the boy's father, and saidto him, "Your son has brought a great misfortune on us. he has thrown myhusband down and broken his bones. Take the good for nothing fellow fromour house."The terrified father came in haste and scolded the boy. "What do thesewicked tricks mean? They will only bring misfortune upon you.""Father," answered the lad, "hear me! I am quite innocent. He stoodthere at midnight like one who had done some evil. I did not know who itwas, and cried three times, 'Speak, or be off!'""Ah!" said the father, "everything goes badly with you. Get out of mysight. I do not wish to see you again!""Yes, father, willingly. wait but one day, then I will go out and learnwhat shivering means, that I may at least understand one business whichwill support me.""Learn what you will," replied the father, "all is the same to me. Hereare fifty dollars. go forth with them into the world, and tell no manwhence you came, or who your father is, for I am ashamed of you.""Yes, father, as you wish. but if you desire nothing else, I shallesteem that very lightly."As soon as day broke the youth put his fifty dollars into a knapsack andwent out upon the high road, saying continually, "Oh, if I could butshiver!"Presently a man came up, who heard the boy talking to himself. and, asthey we're just passing the place where the gallows stood, the man said,"Do you see? There is the tree where seven fellows have married thehempen maid, and now swing to and fro. Sit yourself down there and waittill midnight, and then you will know what it is to shiver!""Oh, if that be all," answered the boy, "I can very easily do that! Butif I learn so speedily what shivering is, then you shall have my fiftydollars if you come again in the morning."Then the boy went to the gallows, sat down, and waited for evening, andas he felt cold he made a fire. But about midnight the wind blew sosharp, that in spite of the fire he could not keep himself warm. Thewind blew the bodies against one another, so that they swung backwardand forward, and he thought, "If I am cold here below by the fire, howmust they freeze above!" So his compassion was excited, and, contrivinga ladder, he mounted, and, unloosening them one after another, hebrought down all seven. Then he poked and blew the fire, and set themround that they might warm themselves. but as they sat still withoutmoving their clothing caught fire. So he said, "Take care of yourselves,or I will hang all of you up again." The dead heard not, and silentlyallowed their rags to burn. This made him so angry that he said, "If youwill not hear I cannot help you. but I will not burn with you." So hehung them up again in a row, and sitting down by the fire he soon wentto sleep. The next morning the man came, expecting to receive his fiftydollars, and asked, "Now do you know what shivering means?" "No," heanswered. "how should I know? Those fellows up there have not openedtheir mouths, and were so stupid that they let the old rags on theirbodies be burnt." Then the man saw that he should not carry away thefifty dollars that day, so he went away saying, "I never met with such aone before."The boy also went on his way and began again to say, "Ah, if only Icould but shiver if I could but shiver!" A wagoner walking behindoverheard him, and asked, "Who are you?""I do not know," answered the boy.The wagoner asked again, "What do you here?""I know not.""Who is your father?""I dare not say.""What is it you are continually grumbling about?""Oh," replied the youth, "I wish to learn what shivering is, but nobodycan teach me.""Cease your silly talk," said the wagoner. "Come with me, and I will seewhat I can do for you." So the boy went with the wagoner, and aboutevening time they arrived at an inn where they put up for the night, andwhile they were going into the parlor he said, quite aloud, "Oh, if Icould but shiver if I could but shiver!" The host overheard him andsaid, laughingly, "Oh, if that is all you wish, you shall soon have theopportunity." "Hold your tongue," said his wife. "so many imprudentpeople have already lost their lives, it were a shame and sin to suchbeautiful eyes that they should not see the light again." But the youthsaid, "If it were ever so difficult I would at once learn it. for thatreason I left home". and he never let the host have any peace till hetold him that not far off stood an enchanted castle, where any one mightsoon learn to shiver if he would watch there three nights. The King hadpromised his daughter in marriage to whoever would venture, and she wasthe most beautiful young lady that the sun ever shone upon. And hefurther told him that inside the castle there was an immense amount oftreasure guarded by evil spirits. enough to make any one free, and turna poor man into a very rich one. Many, he added, had already venturedinto this castle, but no one had ever come out again.The next morning this youth went to the King, and said, "If you willallow me, I wish to watch three nights in the enchanted castle." TheKing looked at him, and because his appearance pleased him, he said,"You may make three requests, but they must be inanimate things you askfor, and such as you can take with you into the castle." So the youthasked for a fire, a lathe, and a cutting board.The King let him take these things by day into the castle, and when itwas evening the youth went in and made himself a bright fire in one ofthe rooms, and, placing his cutting board and knife near it, he sat downupon his lathe. "Ah, if I could but shiver!" said he. "But even here Ishall never learn." At midnight he got up to stir the fire, and, as hepoked it, there shrieked suddenly in one corner, "Miau, miau! how cold Iam!" "You simpleton!" he exclaimed, "what are you shrieking for? If youare so cold come and sit down by the fire and warm yourself!" As he wasspeaking, two great black cats sprang up to him with an immense jump andsat down one on each side, looking at him quite wildly with their fieryeyes. When they had warmed themselves for a little while they said,"Comrade, shall we have a game of cards?" "Certainly," he replied. "butlet me see your paws first." So they stretched out their claws, and hesaid, "Ah, what long nails you have got. wait a bit, I must cut them offfirst". and so saying he caught them up by the necks, and put them onhis board and screwed their feet down. "Since I have seen what you areabout I have lost my relish for a game at cards," said he. and,instantly killing them, threw them away into the water. But no soonerhad he quieted these two and thought of sitting down again by his fire,than there came out of every hole and corner black cats and black dogswith glowing chains, continually more and more, so that he could nothide himself. They howled fearfully, and jumped upon his fire, andscattered it about as if they would extinguish it. He looked on quietlyfor some time, but at last, getting angry, he took up his knife andcalled out, "Away with you, you vagabonds!" and chased them about untila part ran off, and the rest he killed and threw into the pond. As soonas he returned he blew up the sparks of his fire again and warmedhimself, and while he sat his eyes began to feel very heavy and hewished to go to sleep. So looking around he saw a great bed in onecorner, in which he lay down. but no sooner had he closed his eyes, thanthe bed began to move of itself and travelled all round the castle."Just so," said he, "only better still". whereupon the bed galloped awayas if six horses pulled it up and down steps and stairs, until at last,all at once, it overset, bottom upward, and lay upon him like amountain. but up he got, threw pillows and mattresses into the air, andsaying, "Now he who wishes may travel," laid himself down by the fireand slept till day broke. In the morning the King came, and, seeing theyouth lying on the ground, he thought that the spectres had killed him,and that he was dead. so he said, "It is a great misfortune that thefinest men are thus killed". but the youth, hearing this, sprang up,saying, "It is not come to that with me yet!" The King was muchastonished, but very glad, and asked him how he had fared. "Very well,"replied he. "as one night has passed, so also may the other two." Soonafter he met his landlord, who opened his eyes when he saw him. "I neverthought to see you alive again," said he. "have you learnt now whatshivering means?" "No," said he. "it is all of no use. Oh, if any onewould but tell me!"The second night he went up again into the castle, and sitting down bythe fire, began his old song, "If I could but shiver!" When midnightcame, a ringing and a rattling noise was heard, gentle at first andlouder and louder by degrees. then there was a pause, and presently witha loud outcry half a man's body came down the chimney and fell at hisfeet. "Holloa," he exclaimed. "only half a man answered that ringing.that is too little." Then the ringing began afresh, and a roaring andhowling was heard, and the other half fell down. "Wait a bit," said he."I will poke up the fire first." When he had done so and looked roundagain, the two pieces had joined themselves together, and an ugly manwas sitting in his place. "I did not bargain for that," said the youth."the bench is mine." The man tried to push him away, but the youth wouldnot let him, and giving him a violent push sat himself down in his oldplace. Presently more men fell down the chimney, one after the other,who brought nine thigh bones and two skulls, which they set up, and thenthey began to play at ninepins. At this the youth wished also to play,so he asked whether he might join them. "Yes, if you have money!" "Moneyenough," he replied, "but your balls are not quite round". so saying hetook up the skulls, and, placing them on his lathe, turned them round."Ah, now you will roll well," said he. "Holloa! now we will go at itmerrily." So he played with them and lost some of his money, but as itstruck twelve everything disappeared. Then he lay down and went to sleepquietly. On the morrow the King came for news, and asked him how he hadfared this time. "I have been playing ninepins," he replied, "and lost acouple of dollars." "Have you not shivered?" "No! I have enjoyed myselfvery much. but I wish some one would teach me that!"On the third night he sat down again on his bench, saying in greatvexation, "Oh, if I could only shiver!" When it grew late, six tall mencame in bearing a coffin between them. "Ah, ah," said he, "that issurely my little cousin, who died two days ago". and beckoning with hisfinger he called, "Come, little cousin, come!" The men set down thecoffin upon the ground, and he went up and took off the lid, and therelay a dead man within, and as he felt the face it was as cold as ice."Stop a moment," he cried. "I will warm it in a trice". and stepping upto the fire he warmed his hands, and then laid them upon the face, butit remained cold. So he took up the body, and sitting down by the fire,he laid it on his lap and rubbed the arms that the blood might circulateagain. But all this was of no avail, and he thought to himself if twolie in a bed together they warm each other. so he put the body in thebed, and covering it up laid himself down by its side. After a littlewhile the body became warm and began to move about. "See, my cousin," heexclaimed, "have I not warmed you?" But the body got up and exclaimed,"Now I will strangle you." "Is that your gratitude?" cried the youth."Then you shall get into your coffin again". and taking it up, he threwthe body in, and made the lid fast. Then the six men came in again andbore it away. "Oh, deary me," said he, "I shall never be able to shiverif I stop here all my lifetime!" At these words in came a man who wastaller than all the others, and looked more horrible. but he was veryold and had a long white beard. "Oh, you wretch," he exclaimed, "nowthou shalt learn what shivering means, for thou shalt die!""Not so quick," answered the youth. "if I die I must be brought to itfirst.""I will quickly seize you," replied the ugly one."Softly, softly. be not too sure. I am as strong as you, and perhapsstronger.""That we will see," said the ugly man. "If you are stronger than I, Iwill let you go. come, let us try". and he led him away through a darkpassage to a smith's forge. Then taking up an axe he cut through theanvil at one blow down to the ground. "I can do that still better," saidthe youth, and went to another anvil, while the old man followed him andwatched him, with his long beard hanging down. Then the youth took up anaxe, and, splitting the anvil at one blow, wedged the old man's beard init. "Now I have you. now death comes upon you!" and taking up an ironbar he beat the old man until he groaned, and begged him to stop, and hewould give him great riches. So the youth drew out the axe, and let himloose. Then the old man, leading him back into the castle, showed himthree chests full of gold in a cellar. "One share of this," said he,"belongs to the poor, another to the King, and a third to yourself." Andjust then it struck twelve and the old man vanished, leaving the youthin the dark. "I must help myself out here," said he, and groping roundhe found his way back to his room and went to sleep by the fire.The next morning the King came and inquired, "Now have you learnt toshiver?" "No," replied the youth. "what is it? My dead cousin came here,and a bearded man, who showed me a lot of gold down below. but whatshivering means, no one has showed me!" Then the King said, "You havewon the castle, and shall marry my daughter.""That is all very fine," replied the youth, "but still I don't know whatshivering means."So the gold was fetched, and the wedding was celebrated, but the youngPrince (for the youth was a Prince now), notwithstanding his love forhis bride, and his great contentment, was still continually crying, "IfI could but shiver! if I could but shiver!" At last it fell out in thiswise: one of the chambermaids said to the Princess, "Let me bring in myaid to teach him what shivering is." So she went to the brook whichflowed through the garden, and drew up a pail of water full of littlefish. and, at night, when the young Prince was asleep, his bride drewaway the covering and poured the pail of cold water and the littlefishes over him, so that they slipped all about him. Then the Princewoke up directly, calling out, "Oh! that makes me shiver! dear wife,that makes me shiver! Yes, now I know what shivering means!"