In the beginning there lived one man and one woman, Toglai and Toglibon.Their first children were a boy and a girl. When they were old enough, theboy and the girl went far away across the waters seeking a good place tolive in. Nothing more was heard of them until their children, theSpaniards and Americans, came back. After the first boy and girl left,other children were born to the couple. but they all remained at Cibolanon Mount Apo with their parents, until Toglai and Toglibon died and becamespirits. Soon after that there came a great drought which lasted forthree years. All the waters dried up, so that there were no rivers, and noplants could live."Surely," said the people, "Manama is punishing us, and we must goelsewhere to find food and a place to dwell in."So they started out. Two went in the direction of the sunset, carryingwith them stones from Cibolan River. After a long journey they reached aplace where were broad fields of cogon grass and an abundance of water,and there they made their home. Their children still live in that placeand are called Magindanau, because of the stones which the couple carriedwhen they left Cibolan.Two children of Toglai and Toglibon went to the south, seeking a home, andthey carried with them women's baskets (baraan). When they found a goodspot, they settled down. Their descendants, still dwelling at that place,are called Baraan or Bilaan, because of the women's baskets.So two by two the children of the first couple left the land of theirbirth. In the place where each settled a new people developed, and thus itcame about that all the tribes in the world received their names fromthings that the people carried out of Cibolan, or from the places wherethey settled.All the children left Mount Apo save two (a boy and a girl), whom hungerand thirst had made too weak to travel. One day when they were about todie the boy crawled out to the field to see if there was one living thing,and to his surprise he found a stalk of sugarcane growing lustily. Heeagerly cut it, and enough water came out to refresh him and his sisteruntil the rains came. Because of this, their children are called Bagobo.