There was once a king and queen in Rousay who had three daughters. Theking died and the queen was living in a small house with her daughters.They kept a cow and a kale yard. they found their cabbage was all beingtaken away. The eldest daughter said to the queen, she would take ablanket about her and would sit and watch what was going away with thekale. So when the night came she went out to watch. In a short time a verybig giant came into the yard. he began to cut the kale and throw it in abig cubby (straw basket). So he cut till he had it well filled.The princess was always asking him why he was taking her mother's kale. Hewas saying to her, if she was not quiet he would take her too.As soon as he had filled his cubby he took her by a leg and an arm andthrew her on the top of his cubby of kale and away home he went with her.When he got home he told her what work she had to do. she had to milk thecow and put her up to the hills called Bloodfield, and then she had totake wool, and wash and tease it and comb and card, and spin and makeclaith (cloth).When the giant went out she milked the cow and put her to the hills. Thenshe put on the pot and made porridge to herself. As she was supping it, agreat many peerie (little) yellow headed folk came running, calling out togive them some. She said:Little for one, and less for two,And never a grain have I for you.When she came to work the wool, none of that work could she do at all.The giant came home at night and found she had not done her work. He tookher and began at her head, and peeled the skin off all the way down herback and over her feet. Then he threw her on the couples (rafters) amongthe hens.The same adventure befell the second girl. If her sister could do littlewith the wool she could do less.When the giant came home he found her work not done. He began at the crownof her head and peeled a strip of skin all down her back and over herfeet, and threw her on the couples beside her sister. They lay there andcould not speak nor come down.The next night the youngest princess said she would take a blanket abouther and go to watch what had gone away with her sisters. Ere long, in camea giant with a big cubby, and began to cut the kale.She was asking why he was taking her mother's kale. He was saying if shewas not quiet he would take her too. He took her by a leg and an arm andthrew her on the top of his cubby and carried her away.Next morning he gave her the same work as he had given her sisters.When he was gone out she milked the cow and put her to the high hills.Then she put on the pot and made porridge to herself. When the peerieyellow headed folk came asking for some she told them to get something tosup with. Some got heather cows and some got broken dishes. some got onething, and some another, and they all got some of her porridge.After they were all gone a peerie yellow headed boy came in and asked herif she had any work to do. he could do any work with wool. She said shehad plenty, but would never be able to pay him for it. He said all he wasasking for it was to tell him his name. She thought that would be easy todo, and gave him the wool.When it was getting dark an old woman came in and asked her for lodging.The princess said she could not give her that, but asked her if she hadany news. But the old woman had none, and went away to lie out.There is a high knowe (knoll) near the place, and the old woman sat underit for shelter. She found it very warm. She was always climbing up, andwhen she came to the top she heard someone inside saying, " Tease,teasers, tease. card, carders, card. spin, spinners, spin, for PeerieFool, Peerie Fool is my name." There was a crack in the knowe, and lightcoming out. She looked in and saw a great many peerie folk working, and apeerie yellow headed boy running round them calling out that.The old woman thought she would get lodging if she went to give this news,so she came back and told the princess the whole of it.The princess went on saying "Peerie Fool, Peerie Fool," till theyellow headed boy came with all the wool made into claith.He asked what was his name, and she guessed names. and he jumped about andsaid, "No."At last she said, "Peerie Fool is your name." He threw down the wool andran off very angry.As the giant was coming home he met a great many peerie yellow headedfolk, some with their eyes hanging on their cheeks, and some with theirtongues hanging on their breasts. He asked them what was the matter. Theytold him it was working so hard pulling wool so fine. He said he had agood wife at home, and if she was safe, never would he allow her to do anywork again.When he came home she was all safe, and had a great many webs lying allready, and he was very kind to her.Next day when he went out she found her sisters, and took them down fromthe couples. She put the skin on their backs again, and she put her eldestsister in a cazy (basket), and put all the fine things she could find withher, and grass on the top.When the giant came home she asked him to take the cazy to her mother withsome food for her cow. He was so pleased with her he would do anything forher, and took it away.Next day she did the same with her other sister. She told him she wouldhave the last of the food she had to send her mother for the cow readynext night. She told him she was going a bit from home, and would leave itready for him. She got into the cazy with all the fine things she couldfind, and covered herself with grass. He took the cazy and carried it tothe queen's house. She and her daughters had a big boiler of boiling waterready. They couped (overturned) it about him when he was under the window,and that was the end of the giant.