On a high pasture land, near an immense precipice, some maidens wereoccupied in spinning and attending to their grazing cattle, when an oldstrange looking man with a white beard reaching down to his girdleapproached, and said, "Oh fair maidens, beware of the abyss, for if one ofyou should drop her spindle down the cliff, her mother would be turnedinto a cow that very moment!"So saying the aged man disappeared, and the girls, bewildered by hiswords, and discussing the strange incident, approached near to the ravinewhich had suddenly become interesting to them. They peered curiously overthe edge, as though expecting to see some unaccustomed sight, whensuddenly the most beautiful of the maidens let her spindle drop from herhand, and before she could recover it, it was bounding from rock to rockinto the depths beneath. When she returned home that evening she found herworst fears realized, for her mother stood before the door transformedinto a cow.A short time later her father married again. His new wife was a widow,and brought a daughter of her own into her new home. This girl was notparticularly well favored, and her mother immediately began to hate herstepdaughter because of the latter's good looks. She forbade herhenceforth to wash her face, to comb her hair or to change her clothes,and in every way she could think of she sought to make her miserable.One morning she gave her a bag filled with hemp, saying, "If you do notspin this and make a fine top of it by tonight, you need not return home,for I intend to kill you."The poor girl, deeply dejected, walked behind the cattle, industriouslyspinning as she went, but by noon when the cattle lay down in the shade torest, she observed that she had made but little progress and she began toweep bitterly.Now, her mother was driven daily to pasture with the other cows, andseeing her daughter's tears she drew near and asked why she wept,whereupon the maiden told her all. Then the cow comforted her daughter,saying, "My darling child, be consoled! Let me take the hemp into my mouthand chew it. through my ear a thread will come out. You must take the endof this and wind it into a top." So this was done. the hemp was soon spun,and when the girl gave it to her stepmother that evening, she was greatlysurprised.Next morning the woman roughly ordered the maiden to spin a stilllarger bag of hemp, and as the girl, thanks to her mother, spun and woundit all, her stepmother, on the following day, gave her twice the quantityto spin. Nevertheless, the girl brought home at night even that unusuallylarge quantity well spun, and her stepmother concluded that the poor girlwas not spinning alone, but that other maidens, her friends, were givingher help. Therefore she, next morning, sent her own daughter to spy uponthe poor girl and to report what she saw. The girl soon noticed that thecow helped the poor orphan by chewing the hemp, while she drew the threadand wound it on a top, and she ran back home and informed her mother ofwhat she had seen. Upon this, the stepmother insisted that her husbandshould order that particular cow to be slaughtered. Her husband at firsthesitated, but as his wife urged him more and more, he finally decided todo as she wished.On learning what had been decided, the stepdaughter wept more thanever, and when her mother asked what was the matter, she told hertearfully all that had been arranged. Thereupon the cow said to herdaughter, "Wipe away your tears, and do not cry any more. When theyslaughter me, you must take great care not to eat any of the meat, butafter the repast, carefully collect my bones and inter them behind thehouse under a certain stone. then, should you ever be in need of help,come to my grave and there you will find it."The cow was killed, and when the meat was served the poor girl declinedto eat of it, pretending that she had no appetite. after the meal shegathered with great care all the bones and buried them on the spotindicated by her mother.Now, the name of the maiden was Marra, but, as she had to do theroughest work of the house, such as carrying water, washing, and sweeping,she was called by her stepmother and stepsister Pepelyouga (Cinderella).One Sunday, when the stepmother and her daughter had dressed themselvesfor church, the woman spread about the house the contents of a basktetfulof millet, and said, "Listen, Pepelyouga. if you do not gather up all thismillet and have dinner ready by the time we return from church, I willkill you!"When they had gone, the poor girl began to weep, reflecting, "As to thedinner I can easily prepare it, but how can I possibly gather up all thismillet?" But that very moment she recalled the words of the cow, that, ifshe ever should be struck by misfortune, she need but walk to the gravebehind the house, when she would find instant help there. Immediately sheran out, and, when she approached the grave, lo! a chest was lying on thegrave wide open, and inside were beautiful dresses and everythingnecessary for a lady's toilet. Two doves were sitting on the lid of thechest, and as the girl drew near, they said to her, "Marra, take from thechest the dress you like the best, clothe yourself, and go to church. Asto the millet and other work, we ourselves will attend to that and seethat everything is in good order!"Marra needed no second invitation. she took the first silk dress shetouched, made her toilet, and went to church, where her entrance createdquite a sensation. Everybody, men and women, greatly admired her beautyand her costly attire, but they were puzzled as to who she was, and whereshe came from. A prince happened to be in the church on that day, and he,too, admired the beautiful maiden.Just before the service ended, the girl stole from the church, wenthurriedly home, took off her beautiful clothes and placed them back in thechest, which instantly shut and became invisible. She then rushed to thekitchen, where she discovered that the dinner was quite ready, and thatthe millet was gathered into the basket. Soon the stepmother came backwith her daughter, and they were astounded to find the millet gathered up,dinner prepared, and everything else in order. A desire to learn thesecret now began to torment the stepmother mightily.Next Sunday everything happened as before, except that the girl foundin the chest a silver dress, and that the prince felt a greater admirationfor her, so much so that he was unable, even for a moment to take his eyesfrom her. On the third Sunday, the mother and daughter again prepared togo to church, and, having scattered the millet as before, she repeated herprevious threats. As soon as they disappeared, the girl ran straight toher mother's grave, where she found, as on the previous occasions, theopen chest and the same two doves. This time she found a dress made ofgold lace, and she hastily clad herself in it and went to church, whereshe was admired by all, even more than before. As for the czar's son, hehad come with the intention not to let her this time out of his sight, butto follow and see where she went. Accordingly, as the service drew near toits close, and the maiden withdrew quietly as before, the enamored princefollowed after her. Marra hurried along, for she had none too much time,and, as she went, one of her golden slippers came off, and she was tooagitated to stop and pick it up. The prince, however, who had lost sightof the maiden, saw the slipper and put it in his pocket. Reaching home,Marra took off her golden dress, laid it in the chest, and rushed back tothe house.The prince now resolved to go from house to house throughout hisfather's realm in search of the owner of the slipper, inviting all thefair maidens to try on the golden slipper. But, alas! his efforts seemedto be doomed to failure. for some girls the slipper was too long, forothers too short, for others, again, too narrow. There was no one whom itwould fit.Wandering from door to door, the sad prince at length came to the houseof Marra's father. The stepmother was expecting him, and she had hiddenher stepdaughter under a large trough in the courtyard. When the princeasked whether she had any daughters, the stepmother answered that she hadbut one, and she presented the girl to him. The prince requested the girlto try on the slipper, but, squeeze as she would, there was not room in iteven for her toes! Thereupon the prince asked whether it was true thatthere were no other girls in the house, and the stepmother replied thatindeed it was quite true.That very moment a cock flew onto the trough and crowed out lustily," Kook oo ryeh koooo! Here she is under this very trough!"The stepmother, enraged, exclaimed, "Sh! Go away! May an eagle seizeyou and fly off with you!" The curiosity of the prince was aroused. Heapproached the trough, lifted it up, and, to his great surprise, there wasthe maiden whom he had seen three times in church, clad in the very samegolden dress she had last worn, and having only one golden slipper.When the prince recognized the maiden he was overcome with joy. Quicklyhe tried the slipper on her dainty foot. It not only fit her admirably,but it exactly matched the one she already wore on her left foot. Helifted her up tenderly and escorted her to his palace. Later he won herlove, and they were happily married.