From the Danish.There once lived in Denmark a peasant and his wife who owned a very goodfarm, but had no children. They often lamented to each other that theyhad no one of their own to inherit all the wealth that they possessed.They continued to prosper, and became rich people, but there was no heirto it all.One year it happened that they owned a pretty little bull calf, whichthey called Peter. It was the prettiest little creature they had everseen so beautiful and so wise that it understood everything that wassaid to it, and so gentle and so full of play that both the man and hiswife came to be as fond of it as if it had been their own child.One day the man said to his wife, 'I wonder, now, whether our parishclerk could teach Peter to talk. in that case we could not do betterthan adopt him as our son, and let him inherit all that we possess.''Well, I don't know,' said his wife, 'our clerk is tremendously learned,and knows much more than his Paternoster, and I could almost believethat he might be able to teach Peter to talk, for Peter has awonderfully good head too. You might at least ask him about it.'Off went the man to the clerk, and asked him whether he thought he couldteach a bull calf that they had to speak, for they wished so much tohave it as their heir.The clerk was no fool. he looked round about to see that no one couldoverhear them, and said, 'Oh, yes, I can easily do that, but you mustnot speak to anyone about it. It must be done in all secrecy, and thepriest must not know of it, otherwise I shall get into trouble, as it isforbidden. It will also cost you something, as some very expensive booksare required.'That did not matter at all, the man said. they would not care so verymuch what it cost. The clerk could have a hundred dollars to begin withto buy the books. He also promised to tell no one about it, and to bringthe calf round in the evening.He gave the clerk the hundred dollars on the spot, and in the eveningtook the calf round to him, and the clerk promised to do his best withit. In a week's time he came back to the clerk to hear about the calfand see how it was thriving. The clerk, however, said that he could notget a sight of it, for then Peter would long after him and forget allthat he had already learned. He was getting on well with his learning,but another hundred dollars were needed, as they must have more books.The peasant had the money with him, so he gave it to the clerk, and wenthome again with high hopes.In another week the man came again to learn what progress Peter had madenow.'He is getting on very well,' said the clerk.'I suppose he can't say anything yet?' said the man.'Oh, yes,' said the clerk, 'he can say "Moo" now.''Do you think he will get on with his learning?' asked the peasant.'Oh, yes,' said the clerk, 'but I shall want another hundred dollars forbooks. Peter can't learn well out of the ones that he has got.''Well, well,' said the man, 'what must be spent shall be spent.'So he gave the clerk the third hundred dollars for books, and a cask ofgood old ale for Peter. The clerk drank the ale himself, and gave thecalf milk, which he thought would be better for it.Some weeks passed, during which the peasant did not come round to askafter the calf, being frightened lest it should cost him another hundreddollars, for he had begun to squirm a bit at having to part with so muchmoney. Meanwhile the clerk decided that the calf was as fat as it couldbe, so he killed it. After he had got all the beef out of the way hewent inside, put on his black clothes, and made his way to the peasant'shouse.As soon as he had said 'Good day' he asked, 'Has Peter come home here?''No, indeed, he hasn't,' said the man. 'surely he hasn't run away?''I hope,' said the clerk, 'that he would not behave so contemptiblyafter all the trouble I have had to teach him, and all that I have spentupon him. I have had to spend at least a hundred dollars of my own moneyto buy books for him before I got him so far on. He could say anythinghe liked now, so he said to day that he longed to see his parentsagain. I was willing to give him that pleasure, but I was afraid that hewouldn't be able to find the way here by himself, so I made myself readyto go with him. When we had got outside the house I remembered that Ihad left my stick inside, and went in again to get it. When I came outagain Peter had gone off on his own account. I thought he would be here,and if he isn't I don't know where he is.'The peasant and his wife began to lament bitterly that Peter had runaway in this fashion just when they were to have so much joy of him, andafter they had spent so much on his education. The worst of it was thatnow they had no heir after all. The clerk comforted them as best hecould. he also was greatly distressed that Peter should have behavedin such a way just when he should have gained honour from his pupil.Perhaps he had only gone astray, and he would advertise him at churchnext Sunday, and find out where anyone had seen him. Then he bade them'Good bye,' and went home nad dined on a good fat veal roast.Now it so happened that the clerk took in a newspaper, and one day hechanced to read in its columns of a new merchant who had settled ina town at some distance, and whose name was 'Peter Bull.' He put thenewspaper in his pocket, and went round to the sorrowing couple who hadlost their heir. He read the paragraph to them, and added, 'I wonder,now, whether that could be your bull calf Peter?''Yes, of course it is,' said the man. 'who else would it be?'His wife then spoke up and said, 'You must set out, good man, and seeabout him, for it is him, I am perfectly certain. Take a good sum ofmoney with you, too. for who knows but what he may want some cash nowthat he has turned a merchant!'Next day the man got a bag of money on his back and a sandwich in hispocket, and his pipe in his mouth, and set out for the town where thenew merchant lived. It was no short way, and he travelled for many daysbefore he finally arrived there. He reached it one morning, just atdaybreak, found out the right place, and asked if the merchant was athome. Yes, he was, said the people, but he was not up yet.'That doesn't matter,' said the peasant, 'for I am his father. Just showme up to his bedroom.'He was shown up to the room, and as soon as he entered it, ad caughtsight of the merchant, he recognised him at once. He had the same broadforehead, the same thick neck, and same red hair, but in other respectshe was now like a human being. The peasant rushed straight up to himand took a firm hold of him. 'O Peter,' said he, 'what a sorrow you havecaused us, both myself and your mother, by running off like this justas we had got you well educated! Get up, now, so that I can see youproperly, and have a talk with you.'The merchant thought that it was a lunatic who had made his way in tohim, and thought it best to take things quietly.'All right,' said he, 'I shall do so at once.' He got out of bed andmade haste to dress himself.'Ay,' said the peasant, 'now I can see how clever our clerk is. Hehas done well by you, for now you look just like a human being. If onedidn't know it, one would never think that it was you we got from thered cow. will you come home with me now?''No,' said the merchant, 'I can't find time just now. I have a bigbusiness to look after.''You could have the farm at once, you know,' said the peasant, 'and weold people would retire. But if you would rather stay in business, ofcourse you may do so. Are you in want of anything?''Oh, yes,' said the merchant. 'I want nothing so much as money. Amerchant has always a use for that.''I can well believe that,' said the peasant, 'for you had nothing at allto start with. I have brought some with me for that very end.' Withthat he emptied his bag of money out upon the table, so that it was allcovered with bright dollars.When the merchant saw what kind of man he had before him he began tospeak him fair, and invited him to stay with him for some days, so thatthey might have some more talk together.'Very well,' said the peasant, 'but you must call me "Father."''I have neither father nor mother alive,' said Peter Bull.'I know that,' said the man. 'your real father was sold at Hamburg lastMichaelmas, and your real mother died while calving in spring. but mywife and I have adopted you as our own, and you are our only heir, soyou must call me "Father."'Peter Bull was quite willing to do so, and it was settled that he shouldkeep the money, while the peasant made his will and left to him all thathe had, before he went home to his wife, and told her the whole story.She was delighted to hear that it was true enough about Peter Bull thathe was no other than their own bull calf.'You must go at once and tell the clerk,' said she, 'and pay him thehundred dollars of his own money that he spent upon our son. He hasearned them well, and more besides, for all the joy he has given us inhaving such a son and heir.'The man agreed with this, and thanked the clerk for all he had done, andgave him two hundred dollars. Then he sold the farm, and removed withhis wife to the town where their dear son and heir was living. To himthey gave all their wealth, and lived with him till their dying day.