There were once upon a time a peasant and his wife who lived inJutland, but they had no children. They often lamented that fact and werealso sad to think that they had no relatives to whom to leave their farmand other possessions. So the years went by and they became richer andricher, but there was no one to inherit their wealth.One year the farmer bought a fine calf which he called Peter, and itwas really the finest animal that he had ever seen, and so clever that itseemed to understand nearly everything that one said to it. It was alsovery amusing and affectionate, so that the man and his wife soon became asfond of it as if it were their own child.One day the farmer said to his wife, "Perhaps the sexton of our churchcould teach Peter to talk then we could not do better than to adopt him asour child, and he could then inherit all our property.""Who can tell?" said the wife, "Our sexton is a learned man and perhapshe might be able to teach Peter to talk, for Peter is really very clever.Suppose you ask the sexton."So the farmer went over to the sexton and asked him whether he did notbelieve that he could teach his calf to talk, because he wanted to makethe animal his heir. The crafty sexton looked around to see that no onewas near, and then said that he thought he could do so. "Only you must nottell anybody," he said, "for it must be a great secret, and the ministerin particular must not know anything about it, or I might get into serioustrouble as such things are strictly forbidden. Moreover it will cost apretty penny as we shall need rare and expensive books." The farmer saidthat he did not mind, and handing the sexton a hundred dollars to buybooks with, promised not to say a word about the arrangement toanyone.That evening the man brought his calf to the sexton who promised to dohis best. In about a week the farmer returned to see how his calf wasgetting on, but the sexton said that he did not dare let him see theanimal, else Peter might become homesick and forget all that he hadalready learned. Otherwise he was making good progress, but the farmermust pay another hundred dollars, as Peter needed more books. The peasanthappened to have the money with him, so he gave it to the sexton and wenthome filled with hope and pleasant anticipations.At the end of another week the man again went to make inquiry aboutPeter, and was told by the sexton that he was doing fairly well. "Can hesay anything?" asked the farmer."Yes, he can say 'ma,'" answered the sexton."The poor animal is surely ill," said the peasant, "and he probablywants mead. I will go straight home and bring him a jug of it." So hefetched a jug of good, old mead and gave it to the sexton for Peter. Thesexton, however, kept the mead and gave the calf some milk instead.A week later the farmer came again to find out what Peter could saynow. "He still refuses to say anything but 'ma,'" said the sexton."Oh! he is a cunning rogue." said the peasant, "so he wants more mead,does he? Well, I'll get him some more, as he likes it so much. But whatprogress has he made?""He is doing so well," answered the sexton, "that he needs anotherhundred dollars' worth of books, for he cannot learn anything more fromthose that he has now.""Well then, if he needs them he shall have them." So that same day thefarmer brought another hundred dollars and a jug of good, old mead forPeter.Now the peasant allowed a few weeks to elapse without calling on Peter,for he began to be afraid that each visit would cost him a hundreddollars. In the meantime the calf had become as fat as he would ever be,so the sexton killed him and sold the meat carefully at a distance fromthe village. Having done that he put on his black clothes and went to callon the farmer and his wife. As soon as he had bid them good day he askedthem whether Peter had reached home safe and sound."Why no," said the farmer, "he has not run away, has he?""I hope," said the sexton, "that after all the trouble I have taken hehas not been so tricky as to run away and to abuse my confidence soshamefully. For I have spent at least a hundred dollars of my own money topay for books for him. Now Peter could say whatever he wanted, and he wastelling me only yesterday that he was longing to see his dear parents. AsI wanted to give him that pleasure, but feared that he would not be ableto find his way home alone, I dressed myself and started out with him. Wewere hardly in the street when I suddenly remembered that I had left mystick at home, so I ran back to get it. When I came out of the houseagain, I found that Peter had run on alone. I thought, of course, that hehad gone back to your house. If he is not there, I certainly do not knowwhere he can be."Then the people began to weep and lament that Peter was lost, nowespecially when they might have had such pleasure with him, and afterpaying out so much money for his education. And the worst of it was thatthey were again without an heir. The sexton tried to comfort them and wasalso very sorry that Peter had deceived them so. But perhaps he had onlylost his way, and the sexton promised that he would ask publicly in churchnext Sunday whether somebody had not seen the calf. Then he bade thefarmer and his wife good bye and went home and had some good roast vealfor dinner.One day the sexton read in the paper that a new merchant, named PeterOx, had settled in the neighboring town. He put the paper into his pocketand went straight to the farmer and read this item of news to him. "Onemight almost believe," he said, "that this is your calf.""Why yes," said the farmer, "who else should it be?" Then his wifeadded, "Yes father, go at once to see him, for I feel sure that it can beno other than our dear Peter. But take along plenty of money for heprobably needs it now that he has become a merchant."On the following morning the farmer put a bag of money on his shoulder,took with him some provisions, and started to walk to the town where themerchant lived. Early next morning he arrived there and went straight tothe merchant's house. The servants told the man that the merchant had notgotten up yet. "That does not make any difference for I am his father.just take me up to his room."So they took the peasant up to the bedroom where the merchant lay soundasleep. And as soon as the farmer saw him, he recognized Peter. There werethe same thick neck and broad forehead and the same red hair, butotherwise he looked just like a human being. Then the man went to him andbade him good morning and said, "Well, Peter, you caused your mother andme great sorrow when you ran away as soon as you had learned something.But get up now and let me have a look at you and talk with you."The merchant, of course, believed that he had a crazy man to deal with,so he thought it best to be careful. "Yes I will get up," he said, andjumped out of bed into his clothes as quickly as possible."Ah!" said the peasant, "now I see what a wise man our sexton was. hehas brought it to pass that you are like any other man. If I were notabsolutely certain of it, I should never dream that you were the calf ofour red cow. Will you come home with me?" The merchant said that he couldnot as he had to attend to his business. "But you could take over my farmand I would retire. Nevertheless if you prefer to stay in business, I amwilling. Do you need any money?""Well," said the merchant, "a man can always find use for money in hisbusiness.""I thought so," said the farmer, "and besides you had nothing to startwith, so I have brought you some money." And with that he poured out onthe table the bright dollars that covered it entirely.When the merchant saw what kind of a man his new found acquaintancewas, he chatted with him in a very friendly manner and begged him toremain with him for a few days."Yes indeed," said the farmer, "but you must be sure to call me fatherfrom now on.""But I have neither father nor mother living," answered Peter Ox."That I know perfectly well," the peasant replied, "for I sold yourreal father in Copenhagen last Michaelmas, and your mother died whilecalving. But my wife and I have adopted you as our child and you will beour heir, so you must call me father."The merchant gladly agreed to that and kept the bag of money. andbefore leaving town the farmer made his will and bequeathed all hispossessions to Peter after his death. Then the man went home and told hiswife the whole story, and she was delighted to learn that the merchantPeter Ox was really their own calf."Now you must go straight over to the sexton and tell him what hashappened." she said, "and be sure to refund to him the hundred dollarsthat he paid out of his own pocket for Peter, for he has earned all thatwe have paid him, because of the joy that he has caused us in giving ussuch a son and heir."Her husband was of the same opinion and went to call on the sexton,whom he thanked many times for his kindness and to whom he also gave twohundred dollars.Then the farmer sold his farm, and he and his wife moved into the townwhere the merchant was, and lived with him happily until their death.