Long, long ago there lived a widow who had three sons. The two eldestwere grown up, and though they were known to be idle fellows, some ofthe neighbours had given them work to do on account of the respect inwhich their mother was held. But at the time this story begins theyhad both been so careless and idle that their masters declared theywould keep them no longer.So home they went to their mother and youngest brother, of whom theythought little, because he made himself useful about the house, andlooked after the hens, and milked the cow. 'Pinkel,' they called himin scorn, and by and by 'Pinkel' became his name throughout the village.The two young men thought it was much nicer to live at home and be idlethan to be obliged to do a quantity of disagreeable things they did notlike, and they would have stayed by the fire till the end of theirlives had not the widow lost patience with them and said that sincethey would not look for work at home they must seek it elsewhere, forshe would not have them under her roof any longer. But she repentedbitterly of her words when Pinkel told her that he too was old enoughto go out into the world, and that when he had made a fortune he wouldsend for his mother to keep house for him.The widow wept many tears at parting from her youngest son, but as shesaw that his heart was set upon going with his brothers, she did nottry to keep him. So the young men started off one morning in highspirits, never doubting that work such as they might be willing to dowould be had for the asking, as soon as their little store of money wasspent.But a very few days of wandering opened their eyes. Nobody seemed towant them, or, if they did, the young men declared that they were notable to undertake all that the farmers or millers or woodcuttersrequired of them. The youngest brother, who was wiser, would gladlyhave done some of the work that the others refused, but he was smalland slight, and no one thought of offering him any. Therefore theywent from one place to another, living only on the fruit and nuts theycould find in the woods, and getting hungrier every day.One night, after they had been walking for many hours and were verytired, they came to a large lake with an island in the middle of it.From the island streamed a strong light, by which they could seeeverything almost as clearly as if the sun had been shining, and theyperceived that, lying half hidden in the rushes, was a boat.'Let us take it and row over to the island, where there must be ahouse,' said the eldest brother. 'and perhaps they will give us foodand shelter.' And they all got in and rowed across in the direction ofthe light. As they drew near the island they saw that it came from agolden lantern hanging over the door of a hut, while sweet tinklingmusic proceeded from some bells attached to the golden horns of a goatwhich was feeding near the cottage. The young men's hearts rejoiced asthey thought that at last they would be able to rest their weary limbs,and they entered the hut, but were amazed to see an ugly old womaninside, wrapped in a cloak of gold which lighted up the whole house.They looked at each other uneasily as she came forward with herdaughter, as they knew by the cloak that this was a famous witch.'What do you want?' asked she, at the same time signing to her daughterto stir the large pot on the fire.'We are tired and hungry, and would fain have shelter for the night,'answered the eldest brother.'You cannot get it here,' said the witch, 'but you will find both foodand shelter in the palace on the other side of the lake. Take yourboat and go. but leave this boy with me I can find work for him,though something tells me he is quick and cunning, and will do me ill.''What harm can a poor boy like me do a great Troll like you?' answeredPinkel. 'Let me go, I pray you, with my brothers. I will promisenever to hurt you.' And at last the witch let him go, and he followedhis brothers to the boat.The way was further than they thought, and it was morning before theyreached the palace.Now, at last, their luck seemed to have turned, for while the twoeldest were given places in the king's stables, Pinkel was taken aspage to the little prince. He was a clever and amusing boy, who saweverything that passed under his eyes, and the king noticed this, andoften employed him in his own service, which made his brothers veryjealous.Things went on this way for some time, and Pinkel every day rose in theroyal favour. At length the envy of his brothers became so great thatthey could bear it no longer, and consulted together how best theymight ruin his credit with the king. They did not wish to killhim though, perhaps, they would not have been sorry if they had heardhe was dead but merely wished to remind him that he was after all onlya child, not half so old and wise as they.Their opportunity soon came. It happened to be the king's custom tovisit his stables once a week, so that he might see that his horseswere being properly cared for. The next time he entered the stablesthe two brothers managed to be in the way, and when the king praisedthe beautiful satin skins of the horses under their charge, andremarked how different was their condition when his grooms had firstcome across the lake, the young men at once began to speak of thewonderful light which sprang from the lantern over the hut. The king,who had a passion for collection all the rarest things he could find,fell into the trap directly, and inquired where he could get thismarvellous lantern.'Send Pinkel for it, Sire,' said they. 'It belongs to an old witch,who no doubt came by it in some evil way. But Pinkel has a smoothtongue, and he can get the better of any woman, old or young.''Then bid him go this very night,' cried the king. 'and if he brings methe lantern I will make him one of the chief men about my person.'Pinkel was much pleased at the thought of his adventure, and withoutmore ado he borrowed a little boat which lay moored to the shore, androwed over to the island at once. It was late by the time he arrived,and almost dark, but he knew by the savoury smell that reached him thatthe witch was cooking her supper. So he climbed softly on to the roof,and, peering, watched till the old woman's back was turned, when hequickly drew a handful of salt from his pocket and threw it into thepot. Scarcely had he done this when the witch called her daughter andbade her lift the pot off the fire and put the stew into a dish, as ithad been cooking quite long enough and she was hungry. But no soonerhad she tasted it than she put her spoon down, and declared that herdaughter must have been meddling with it, for it was impossible to eatanything that was all made of salt.'Go down to the spring in the valley, and get some fresh water, that Imay prepare a fresh supper,' cried she, 'for I feel half  starved.''But, mother,' answered the girl, 'how can I find the well in thisdarkness? For you know that the lantern's rays shed no light downthere.''Well, then, take the lantern with you,' answered the witch, 'forsupper I must have, and there is no water that is nearer.'So the girl took her pail in one hand and the golden lantern in theother, and hastened away to the well, followed by Pinkel, who took careto keep out of the way of the rays. When at last she stooped to fillher pail at the well Pinkel pushed her into it, and snatching up thelantern hurried back to his boat and rowed off from the shore.He was already a long distance from the island when the witch, whowondered what had become of her daughter, went to the door to look forher. Close around the hut was thick darkness, but what was thatbobbing light that streamed across the water? The witch's heart sankas all at once it flashed upon her what had happened.'Is that you, Pinkel?' cried she. and the youth answered:'Yes, dear mother, it is I!''And are you not a knave for robbing me?' said she.'Truly, dear mother, I am,' replied Pinkel, rowing faster than ever,for he was half afraid that the witch might come after him. But shehad no power on the water, and turned angrily into the hut, mutteringto herself all the while:'Take care! take care! A second time you will not escape so easily!'The sun had not yet risen when Pinkel returned to the palace, and,entering the king's chamber, he held up the lantern so that its raysmight fall upon the bed. In an instant the king awoke, and seeing thegolden lantern shedding its light upon him, he sprang up, and embracedPinkel with joy.'O cunning one,' cried he, 'what treasure hast thou brought me!' Andcalling for his attendants he ordered that rooms next his own should beprepared for Pinkel, and that the youth might enter his presence at anyhour. And besides this, he was to have a seat on the council.It may easily be guessed that all this made the brothers more enviousthan they were before. and they cast about in their minds afresh howbest they might destroy him. At length they remembered the goat withgolden horns and the bells, and they rejoiced. 'For,' said they, 'THIStime the old woman will be on the watch, and let him be as clever as helikes, the bells on the horns are sure to warn her.' So when, asbefore, the king came down to the stables and praised the cleverness oftheir brother, the young men told him of that other marvel possessed bythe witch, the goat with the golden horns.From this moment the king never closed his eyes at night for longingafter this wonderful creature. He understood something of the dangerthat there might be in trying to steal it, now that the witch'ssuspicions were aroused, and he spent hours in making plans foroutwitting her. But somehow he never could think of anything thatwould do, and at last, as the brothers had foreseen, he sent for Pinkel.'I hear,' he said, 'that the old witch on the island has a goat withgolden horns from which hang bells that tinkle the sweetest music.That goat I must have! But, tell me, how am I to get it? I would givethe third part of my kingdom to anyone who would bring it to me.''I will fetch it myself,' answered Pinkel.This time it was easier for Pinkel to approach the island unseen, asthere was no golden lantern to thrown its beams over the water. But,on the other hand, the goat slept inside the hut, and would thereforehave to be taken from under the very eyes of the old woman. How was heto do it? All the way across the lake he thought and thought, till atlength a plan came into his head which seemed as if it might do, thoughhe knew it would be very difficult to carry out.The first thing he did when he reached the shore was to look about fora piece of wood, and when he had found it he hid himself close to thehut, till it grew quite dark and near the hour when the witch and herdaughter went to bed. Then he crept up and fixed the wood under thedoor, which opened outwards, in such a manner that the more you triedto shut it the more firmly it stuck. And this was what happened whenthe girl went as usual to bolt the door and make all fast for the night.'What are you doing?' asked the witch, as her daughter kept tugging atthe handle.'There is something the matter with the door. it won't shut,' answeredshe.'Well, leave it alone. there is nobody to hurt us,' said the witch, whowas very sleepy. and the girl did as she was bid, and went to bed.Very soon they both might have been heard snoring, and Pinkel knew thathis time was come. Slipping off his shoes he stole into the hut ontiptoe, and taking from his pocket some food of which the goat wasparticularly fond, he laid it under his nose. Then, while the animalwas eating it, he stuffed each golden bell with wool which he had alsobrought with him, stopping every minute to listen, lest the witchshould awaken, and he should find himself changed into some dreadfulbird or beast. But the snoring still continued, and he went on withhis work as quickly as he could. When the last bell was done he drewanother handful of food out of his pocket, and held it out to the goat,which instantly rose to its feet and followed Pinkel, who backed slowlyto the door, and directly he got outside he seized the goat in his armsand ran down to the place where he had moored his boat.As soon as he had reached the middle of the lake, Pinkel took the woolout of the bells, which began to tinkle loudly. Their sound awoke thewitch, who cried out as before:'Is that you, Pinkel?''Yes, dear mother, it is I,' said Pinkel.'Have you stolen my golden goat?' asked she.'Yes, dear mother, I have,' answered Pinkel.'Are you not a knave, Pinkel?''Yes, dear mother, I am,' he replied. And the old witch shouted in arage:'Ah! beware how you come hither again, for next time you shall notescape me!'But Pinkel laughed and rowed on.The king was so delighted with the goat that he always kept it by hisside, night and day. and, as he had promised, Pinkel was made rulerover the third part of the kingdom. As may be supposed, the brotherswere more furious than ever, and grew quite thin with rage.'How can we get rid of him?' said one to the other. And at length theyremembered the golden cloak.'He will need to be clever if he is to steal that!' they cried, with achuckle. And when next the king came to see his horses they began tospeak of Pinkel and his marvellous cunning, and how he had contrived tosteal the lantern and the goat, which nobody else would have been ableto do.'But as he was there, it is a pity he could not have brought away thegolden cloak,' added they.'The golden cloak! what is that?' asked the king. And the young mendescribed its beauties in such glowing words that the king declared heshould never know a day's happiness till he had wrapped the cloak roundhis own shoulders.'And,' added he, 'the man who brings it to me shall wed my daughter,and shall inherit my throne.''None can get it save Pinkel,' said they. for they did not imagine thatthe witch, after two warnings, could allow their brother to escape athird time. So Pinkel was sent for, and with a glad heart he set out.He passed many hours inventing first one plan and then another, till hehad a scheme ready which he thought might prove successful.Thrusting a large bag inside his coat, he pushed off from the shore,taking care this time to reach the island in daylight. Having made hisboat fast to a tree, he walked up to the hut, hanging his head, andputting on a face that was both sorrowful and ashamed.'Is that you, Pinkel?' asked the witch when she saw him, her eyesgleaming savagely.'Yes, dear mother, it is I,' answered Pinkel.'So you have dared, after all you have done, to put yourself in mypower!' cried she. 'Well, you sha'n't escape me THIS time!' And shetook down a large knife and began to sharpen it.''Oh! dear mother, spare me!' shrieked Pinkel, falling on his knees, andlooking wildly about him.'Spare you, indeed, you thief! Where are my lantern and my goat? No!not! there is only one fate for robbers!' And she brandished the knifein the air so that it glittered in the firelight.'Then, if I must die,' said Pinkel, who, by this time, was gettingreally rather frightened, 'let me at least choose the manner of mydeath. I am very hungry, for I have had nothing to eat all day. Putsome poison, if you like, into the porridge, but at least let me have agood meal before I die.''That is not a bad idea,' answered the woman. 'as long as you do die,it is all one to me.' And ladling out a large bowl of porridge, shestirred some poisonous herbs into it, and set about work that had to bedone. Then Pinkel hastily poured all the contents of the bowl into hisbag, and make a great noise with his spoon, as if he was scraping upthe last morsel.'Poisoned or not, the porridge is excellent. I have eaten it, everyscrap. do give me some more,' said Pinkel, turning towards her.'Well, you have a fine appetite, young man,' answered the witch.'however, it is the last time you will ever eat it, so I will give youanother bowlful.' And rubbing in the poisonous herbs, she poured himout half of what remained, and then went to the window to call her cat.In an instant Pinkel again emptied the porridge into the bag, and thenext minute he rolled on the floor, twisting himself about as if inagony, uttering loud groans the while. Suddenly he grew silent and laystill.'Ah! I thought a second dose of that poison would be too much for you,'said the witch looking at him. 'I warned you what would happen if youcame back. I wish that all thieves were as dead as you! But why doesnot my lazy girl bring the wood I sent her for, it will soon be toodark for her to find her way? I suppose I must go and search for her.What a trouble girls are!' And she went to the door to watch if therewere any signs of her daughter. But nothing could be seen of her, andheavy rain was falling.'It is no night for my cloak,' she muttered. 'it would be covered withmud by the time I got back.' So she took it off her shoulders and hungit carefully up in a cupboard in the room. After that she put on herclogs and started to seek her daughter. Directly the last sound of theclogs had ceased, Pinkel jumped up and took down the cloak, and rowedoff as fast as he could.He had not gone far when a puff of wind unfolded the cloak, and itsbrightness shed gleams across the water. The witch, who was justentering the forest, turned round at that moment and saw the goldenrays. She forgot all about her daughter, and ran down to the shore,screaming with rage at being outwitted a third time.'Is that you, Pinkel?' cried she.'Yes, dear mother, it is I.''Have you taken my gold cloak?''Yes, dear mother, I have.''Are you not a great knave?''Yes, truly dear mother, I am.'And so indeed he was!But, all the same, he carried the cloak to the king's palace, and inreturn he received the hand of the king's daughter in marriage. Peoplesaid that it was the bride who ought to have worn the cloak at herwedding feast. but the king was so pleased with it that he would notpart from it. and to the end of his life was never seen without it.After his death, Pinkel became king. and let up hope that he gave uphis bad and thievish ways, and ruled his subjects well. As for hisbrothers, he did not punish them, but left them in the stables, wherethey grumbled all day long.