to four months in prison.If the Marionette had been told to wait a day instead of twenty minutes,the time could not have seemed longer to him. He walked impatiently toand fro and finally turned his nose toward the Field of Wonders.And as he walked with hurried steps, his heart beat with an excited tic,tac, tic, tac, just as if it were a wall clock, and his busy brain keptthinking:"What if, instead of a thousand, I should find two thousand? Or if,instead of two thousand, I should find five thousand or one hundredthousand? I'll build myself a beautiful palace, with a thousand stablesfilled with a thousand wooden horses to play with, a cellar overflowingwith lemonade and ice cream soda, and a library of candies and fruits,cakes and cookies."Thus amusing himself with fancies, he came to the field. There hestopped to see if, by any chance, a vine filled with gold coins wasin sight. But he saw nothing! He took a few steps forward, and stillnothing! He stepped into the field. He went up to the place where he haddug the hole and buried the gold pieces. Again nothing! Pinocchio becamevery thoughtful and, forgetting his good manners altogether, he pulled ahand out of his pocket and gave his head a thorough scratching.As he did so, he heard a hearty burst of laughter close to his head. Heturned sharply, and there, just above him on the branch of a tree, sat alarge Parrot, busily preening his feathers."What are you laughing at?" Pinocchio asked peevishly."I am laughing because, in preening my feathers, I tickled myself underthe wings."The Marionette did not answer. He walked to the brook, filled his shoewith water, and once more sprinkled the ground which covered the goldpieces.Another burst of laughter, even more impertinent than the first, washeard in the quiet field."Well," cried the Marionette, angrily this time, "may I know, Mr.Parrot, what amuses you so?""I am laughing at those simpletons who believe everything they hear andwho allow themselves to be caught so easily in the traps set for them.""Do you, perhaps, mean me?""I certainly do mean you, poor Pinocchio you who are such a littlesilly as to believe that gold can be sown in a field just like beansor squash. I, too, believed that once and today I am very sorry for it.Today (but too late!) I have reached the conclusion that, in order tocome by money honestly, one must work and know how to earn it with handor brain.""I don't know what you are talking about," said the Marionette, who wasbeginning to tremble with fear."Too bad! I'll explain myself better," said the Parrot. "While you wereaway in the city the Fox and the Cat returned here in a great hurry.They took the four gold pieces which you have buried and ran away asfast as the wind. If you can catch them, you're a brave one!"Pinocchio's mouth opened wide. He would not believe the Parrot's wordsand began to dig away furiously at the earth. He dug and he dug tillthe hole was as big as himself, but no money was there. Every penny wasgone.In desperation, he ran to the city and went straight to the courthouseto report the robbery to the magistrate. The Judge was a Monkey, a largeGorilla venerable with age. A flowing white beard covered his chest andhe wore gold rimmed spectacles from which the glasses had droppedout. The reason for wearing these, he said, was that his eyes had beenweakened by the work of many years.Pinocchio, standing before him, told his pitiful tale, word by word.He gave the names and the descriptions of the robbers and begged forjustice.The Judge listened to him with great patience. A kind look shone in hiseyes. He became very much interested in the story. he felt moved. healmost wept. When the Marionette had no more to say, the Judge put outhis hand and rang a bell.At the sound, two large Mastiffs appeared, dressed in Carabineers'uniforms.Then the magistrate, pointing to Pinocchio, said in a very solemn voice:"This poor simpleton has been robbed of four gold pieces. Take him,therefore, and throw him into prison." The Marionette, on hearing thissentence passed upon him, was thoroughly stunned. He tried to protest,but the two officers clapped their paws on his mouth and hustled himaway to jail.There he had to remain for four long, weary months. And if it had notbeen for a very lucky chance, he probably would have had to stay therelonger. For, my dear children, you must know that it happened just thenthat the young emperor who ruled over the City of Simple Simons hadgained a great victory over his enemy, and in celebration thereof, hehad ordered illuminations, fireworks, shows of all kinds, and, best ofall, the opening of all prison doors."If the others go, I go, too," said Pinocchio to the Jailer."Not you," answered the Jailer. "You are one of those ""I beg your pardon," interrupted Pinocchio, "I, too, am a thief.""In that case you also are free," said the Jailer. Taking off his cap,he bowed low and opened the door of the prison, and Pinocchio ran outand away, with never a look backward.Freed from prison, Pinocchio sets out to return to the Fairy. but on theway he meets a Serpent and later is caught in a trap.Fancy the happiness of Pinocchio on finding himself free! Without sayingyes or no, he fled from the city and set out on the road that was totake him back to the house of the lovely Fairy.It had rained for many days, and the road was so muddy that, at times,Pinocchio sank down almost to his knees.But he kept on bravely.Tormented by the wish to see his father and his fairy sister with azurehair, he raced like a greyhound. As he ran, he was splashed with mudeven up to his cap."How unhappy I have been," he said to himself. "And yet I deserveeverything, for I am certainly very stubborn and stupid! I will alwayshave my own way. I won't listen to those who love me and who have morebrains than I. But from now on, I'll be different and I'll try to becomea most obedient boy. I have found out, beyond any doubt whatever, thatdisobedient boys are certainly far from happy, and that, in the longrun, they always lose out. I wonder if Father is waiting for me. WillI find him at the Fairy's house? It is so long, poor man, since I haveseen him, and I do so want his love and his kisses. And will the Fairyever forgive me for all I have done? She who has been so good to me andto whom I owe my life! Can there be a worse or more heartless boy than Iam anywhere?"As he spoke, he stopped suddenly, frozen with terror.What was the matter? An immense Serpent lay stretched across the road aSerpent with a bright green skin, fiery eyes which glowed and burned,and a pointed tail that smoked like a chimney.How frightened was poor Pinocchio! He ran back wildly for half a mile,and at last settled himself atop a heap of stones to wait for theSerpent to go on his way and leave the road clear for him.He waited an hour. two hours. three hours. but the Serpent was alwaysthere, and even from afar one could see the flash of his red eyes andthe column of smoke which rose from his long, pointed tail.Pinocchio, trying to feel very brave, walked straight up to him and saidin a sweet, soothing voice:"I beg your pardon, Mr. Serpent, would you be so kind as to step asideto let me pass?"He might as well have talked to a wall. The Serpent never moved.Once more, in the same sweet voice, he spoke:"You must know, Mr. Serpent, that I am going home where my father iswaiting for me. It is so long since I have seen him! Would you mind verymuch if I passed?"He waited for some sign of an answer to his questions, but the answerdid not come. On the contrary, the green Serpent, who had seemed, untilthen, wide awake and full of life, became suddenly very quiet and still.His eyes closed and his tail stopped smoking."Is he dead, I wonder?" said Pinocchio, rubbing his hands togetherhappily. Without a moment's hesitation, he started to step over him, buthe had just raised one leg when the Serpent shot up like a spring andthe Marionette fell head over heels backward. He fell so awkwardly thathis head stuck in the mud, and there he stood with his legs straight upin the air.At the sight of the Marionette kicking and squirming like a youngwhirlwind, the Serpent laughed so heartily and so long that at last heburst an artery and died on the spot.Pinocchio freed himself from his awkward position and once more beganto run in order to reach the Fairy's house before dark. As he went, thepangs of hunger grew so strong that, unable to withstand them, he jumpedinto a field to pick a few grapes that tempted him. Woe to him!No sooner had he reached the grapevine than crack! went his legs.The poor Marionette was caught in a trap set there by a Farmer for someWeasels which came every night to steal his chickens.