regains his liberty.Even though a boy may be very unhappy, he very seldom loses sleep overhis worries. The Marionette, being no exception to this rule, slept onpeacefully for a few hours till well along toward midnight, when hewas awakened by strange whisperings and stealthy sounds coming from theyard. He stuck his nose out of the doghouse and saw four slender, hairyanimals. They were Weasels, small animals very fond of both eggs andchickens. One of them left her companions and, going to the door of thedoghouse, said in a sweet voice:"Good evening, Melampo.""My name is not Melampo," answered Pinocchio."Who are you, then?""I am Pinocchio.""What are you doing here?""I'm the watchdog.""But where is Melampo? Where is the old dog who used to live in thishouse?""He died this morning.""Died? Poor beast! He was so good! Still, judging by your face, I thinkyou, too, are a good natured dog.""I beg your pardon, I am not a dog!""What are you, then?""I am a Marionette.""Are you taking the place of the watchdog?""I'm sorry to say that I am. I'm being punished.""Well, I shall make the same terms with you that we had with the deadMelampo. I am sure you will be glad to hear them.""And what are the terms?""This is our plan: We'll come once in a while, as in the past, to paya visit to this henhouse, and we'll take away eight chickens. Of these,seven are for us, and one for you, provided, of course, that you willmake believe you are sleeping and will not bark for the Farmer.""Did Melampo really do that?" asked Pinocchio."Indeed he did, and because of that we were the best of friends. Sleepaway peacefully, and remember that before we go we shall leave you anice fat chicken all ready for your breakfast in the morning. Is thatunderstood?""Even too well," answered Pinocchio. And shaking his head in athreatening manner, he seemed to say, "We'll talk this over in a fewminutes, my friends."As soon as the four Weasels had talked things over, they went straightto the chicken coop which stood close to the doghouse. Digging busilywith teeth and claws, they opened the little door and slipped in. Butthey were no sooner in than they heard the door close with a sharp bang.The one who had done the trick was Pinocchio, who, not satisfied withthat, dragged a heavy stone in front of it. That done, he started tobark. And he barked as if he were a real watchdog: "Bow, wow, wow! Bow,wow!"The Farmer heard the loud barks and jumped out of bed. Taking his gun,he leaped to the window and shouted: "What's the matter?""The thieves are here," answered Pinocchio."Where are they?""In the chicken coop.""I'll come down in a second."And, in fact, he was down in the yard in a twinkling and running towardthe chicken coop.He opened the door, pulled out the Weasels one by one, and, after tyingthem in a bag, said to them in a happy voice: "You're in my hands atlast! I could punish you now, but I'll wait! In the morning you may comewith me to the inn and there you'll make a fine dinner for some hungrymortal. It is really too great an honor for you, one you do not deserve.but, as you see, I am really a very kind and generous man and I am goingto do this for you!"Then he went up to Pinocchio and began to pet and caress him."How did you ever find them out so quickly? And to think that Melampo,my faithful Melampo, never saw them in all these years!"The Marionette could have told, then and there, all he knew about theshameful contract between the dog and the Weasels, but thinking ofthe dead dog, he said to himself: "Melampo is dead. What is the use ofaccusing him? The dead are gone and they cannot defend themselves. Thebest thing to do is to leave them in peace!""Were you awake or asleep when they came?" continued the Farmer."I was asleep," answered Pinocchio, "but they awakened me with theirwhisperings. One of them even came to the door of the doghouse and saidto me, 'If you promise not to bark, we will make you a present of oneof the chickens for your breakfast.' Did you hear that? They had theaudacity to make such a proposition as that to me! For you must knowthat, though I am a very wicked Marionette full of faults, still I neverhave been, nor ever shall be, bribed.""Fine boy!" cried the Farmer, slapping him on the shoulder in a friendlyway. "You ought to be proud of yourself. And to show you what I think ofyou, you are free from this instant!"And he slipped the dog collar from his neck.