gold pieces in the Field of Wonders.Crying as if his heart would break, the Marionette mourned for hoursover the length of his nose. No matter how he tried, it would not gothrough the door. The Fairy showed no pity toward him, as she was tryingto teach him a good lesson, so that he would stop telling lies, theworst habit any boy may acquire. But when she saw him, pale with frightand with his eyes half out of his head from terror, she began to feelsorry for him and clapped her hands together. A thousand woodpeckersflew in through the window and settled themselves on Pinocchio's nose.They pecked and pecked so hard at that enormous nose that in a fewmoments, it was the same size as before."How good you are, my Fairy," said Pinocchio, drying his eyes, "and howmuch I love you!""I love you, too," answered the Fairy, "and if you wish to stay with me,you may be my little brother and I'll be your good little sister.""I should like to stay but what about my poor father?""I have thought of everything. Your father has been sent for and beforenight he will be here.""Really?" cried Pinocchio joyfully. "Then, my good Fairy, if you arewilling, I should like to go to meet him. I cannot wait to kiss thatdear old man, who has suffered so much for my sake.""Surely. go ahead, but be careful not to lose your way. Take the woodpath and you'll surely meet him."Pinocchio set out, and as soon as he found himself in the wood, heran like a hare. When he reached the giant oak tree he stopped, for hethought he heard a rustle in the brush. He was right. There stood theFox and the Cat, the two traveling companions with whom he had eaten atthe Inn of the Red Lobster."Here comes our dear Pinocchio!" cried the Fox, hugging and kissing him."How did you happen here?""How did you happen here?" repeated the Cat."It is a long story," said the Marionette. "Let me tell it to you. Theother night, when you left me alone at the Inn, I met the Assassins onthe road ""The Assassins? Oh, my poor friend! And what did they want?""They wanted my gold pieces.""Rascals!" said the Fox."The worst sort of rascals!" added the Cat."But I began to run," continued the Marionette, "and they after me,until they overtook me and hanged me to the limb of that oak."Pinocchio pointed to the giant oak near by."Could anything be worse?" said the Fox."What an awful world to live in! Where shall we find a safe place forgentlemen like ourselves?"As the Fox talked thus, Pinocchio noticed that the Cat carried his rightpaw in a sling."What happened to your paw?" he asked.The Cat tried to answer, but he became so terribly twisted in his speechthat the Fox had to help him out."My friend is too modest to answer. I'll answer for him. About an hourago, we met an old wolf on the road. He was half starved and begged forhelp. Having nothing to give him, what do you think my friend did outof the kindness of his heart? With his teeth, he bit off the paw ofhis front foot and threw it at that poor beast, so that he might havesomething to eat."As he spoke, the Fox wiped off a tear.Pinocchio, almost in tears himself, whispered in the Cat's ear:"If all the cats were like you, how lucky the mice would be!""And what are you doing here?" the Fox asked the Marionette."I am waiting for my father, who will be here at any moment now.""And your gold pieces?""I still have them in my pocket, except one which I spent at the Inn ofthe Red Lobster.""To think that those four gold pieces might become two thousandtomorrow. Why don't you listen to me? Why don't you sow them in theField of Wonders?""Today it is impossible. I'll go with you some other time.""Another day will be too late," said the Fox."Why?""Because that field has been bought by a very rich man, and today is thelast day that it will be open to the public.""How far is this Field of Wonders?""Only two miles away. Will you come with us? We'll be there in half anhour. You can sow the money, and, after a few minutes, you will gatheryour two thousand coins and return home rich. Are you coming?"Pinocchio hesitated a moment before answering, for he remembered thegood Fairy, old Geppetto, and the advice of the Talking Cricket. Thenhe ended by doing what all boys do, when they have no heart and littlebrain. He shrugged his shoulders and said to the Fox and the Cat:"Let us go! I am with you."And they went.They walked and walked for a half a day at least and at last they cameto the town called the City of Simple Simons. As soon as they enteredthe town, Pinocchio noticed that all the streets were filled withhairless dogs, yawning from hunger. with sheared sheep, trembling withcold. with combless chickens, begging for a grain of wheat. with largebutterflies, unable to use their wings because they had sold all theirlovely colors. with tailless peacocks, ashamed to show themselves. andwith bedraggled pheasants, scuttling away hurriedly, grieving for theirbright feathers of gold and silver, lost to them forever.Through this crowd of paupers and beggars, a beautiful coach passed nowand again. Within it sat either a Fox, a Hawk, or a Vulture."Where is the Field of Wonders?" asked Pinocchio, growing tired ofwaiting."Be patient. It is only a few more steps away."They passed through the city and, just outside the walls, they steppedinto a lonely field, which looked more or less like any other field."Here we are," said the Fox to the Marionette. "Dig a hole here and putthe gold pieces into it."The Marionette obeyed. He dug the hole, put the four gold pieces intoit, and covered them up very carefully. "Now," said the Fox, "go to thatnear by brook, bring back a pail full of water, and sprinkle it over thespot."Pinocchio followed the directions closely, but, as he had no pail, hepulled off his shoe, filled it with water, and sprinkled the earth whichcovered the gold. Then he asked:"Anything else?""Nothing else," answered the Fox. "Now we can go. Return here withintwenty minutes and you will find the vine grown and the branches filledwith gold pieces."Pinocchio, beside himself with joy, thanked the Fox and the Cat manytimes and promised them each a beautiful gift."We don't want any of your gifts," answered the two rogues. "It isenough for us that we have helped you to become rich with little or notrouble. For this we are as happy as kings."They said good by to Pinocchio and, wishing him good luck, went on theirway.