Cricket, falls into the hands of the Assassins."Dear, oh, dear! When I come to think of it," said the Marionette tohimself, as he once more set out on his journey, "we boys are reallyvery unlucky. Everybody scolds us, everybody gives us advice, everybodywarns us. If we were to allow it, everyone would try to be father andmother to us. everyone, even the Talking Cricket. Take me, for example.Just because I would not listen to that bothersome Cricket, who knowshow many misfortunes may be awaiting me! Assassins indeed! At least Ihave never believed in them, nor ever will. To speak sensibly, I thinkassassins have been invented by fathers and mothers to frighten childrenwho want to run away at night. And then, even if I were to meet themon the road, what matter? I'll just run up to them, and say, 'Well,signori, what do you want? Remember that you can't fool with me! Runalong and mind your business.' At such a speech, I can almost see thosepoor fellows running like the wind. But in case they don't run away, Ican always run myself. . ."Pinocchio was not given time to argue any longer, for he thought heheard a slight rustle among the leaves behind him.He turned to look and behold, there in the darkness stood two big blackshadows, wrapped from head to foot in black sacks. The two figuresleaped toward him as softly as if they were ghosts."Here they come!" Pinocchio said to himself, and, not knowing where tohide the gold pieces, he stuck all four of them under his tongue.He tried to run away, but hardly had he taken a step, when he felt hisarms grasped and heard two horrible, deep voices say to him: "Your moneyor your life!"On account of the gold pieces in his mouth, Pinocchio could not saya word, so he tried with head and hands and body to show, as best hecould, that he was only a poor Marionette without a penny in his pocket."Come, come, less nonsense, and out with your money!" cried the twothieves in threatening voices.Once more, Pinocchio's head and hands said, "I haven't a penny.""Out with that money or you're a dead man," said the taller of the twoAssassins."Dead man," repeated the other."And after having killed you, we will kill your father also.""Your father also!""No, no, no, not my Father!" cried Pinocchio, wild with terror. but ashe screamed, the gold pieces tinkled together in his mouth."Ah, you rascal! So that's the game! You have the money hidden underyour tongue. Out with it!"But Pinocchio was as stubborn as ever."Are you deaf? Wait, young man, we'll get it from you in a twinkling!"One of them grabbed the Marionette by the nose and the other by thechin, and they pulled him unmercifully from side to side in order tomake him open his mouth.All was of no use. The Marionette's lips might have been nailedtogether. They would not open.In desperation the smaller of the two Assassins pulled out a long knifefrom his pocket, and tried to pry Pinocchio's mouth open with it.Quick as a flash, the Marionette sank his teeth deep into the Assassin'shand, bit it off and spat it out. Fancy his surprise when he saw that itwas not a hand, but a cat's paw.Encouraged by this first victory, he freed himself from the claws ofhis assailers and, leaping over the bushes along the road, ran swiftlyacross the fields. His pursuers were after him at once, like two dogschasing a hare.After running seven miles or so, Pinocchio was well nigh exhausted.Seeing himself lost, he climbed up a giant pine tree and sat thereto see what he could see. The Assassins tried to climb also, but theyslipped and fell.Far from giving up the chase, this only spurred them on. They gathered abundle of wood, piled it up at the foot of the pine, and set fire to it.In a twinkling the tree began to sputter and burn like a candle blown bythe wind. Pinocchio saw the flames climb higher and higher. Not wishingto end his days as a roasted Marionette, he jumped quickly to the groundand off he went, the Assassins close to him, as before.Dawn was breaking when, without any warning whatsoever, Pinocchio foundhis path barred by a deep pool full of water the color of muddy coffee.What was there to do? With a "One, two, three!" he jumped clear acrossit. The Assassins jumped also, but not having measured their distancewell splash!!! they fell right into the middle of the pool. Pinocchiowho heard the splash and felt it, too, cried out, laughing, but neverstopping in his race:"A pleasant bath to you, signori!"He thought they must surely be drowned and turned his head to see. Butthere were the two somber figures still following him, though theirblack sacks were drenched and dripping with water.