changes into a real Donkey and begins to bray.Everyone, at one time or another, has found some surprise awaiting him.Of the kind which Pinocchio had on that eventful morning of his life,there are but few.What was it? I will tell you, my dear little readers. On awakening,Pinocchio put his hand up to his head and there he found Guess!He found that, during the night, his ears had grown at least ten fullinches!You must know that the Marionette, even from his birth, had very smallears, so small indeed that to the naked eye they could hardly be seen.Fancy how he felt when he noticed that overnight those two dainty organshad become as long as shoe brushes!He went in search of a mirror, but not finding any, he just filled abasin with water and looked at himself. There he saw what he nevercould have wished to see. His manly figure was adorned and enriched by abeautiful pair of donkey's ears.I leave you to think of the terrible grief, the shame, the despair ofthe poor Marionette.He began to cry, to scream, to knock his head against the wall, but themore he shrieked, the longer and the more hairy grew his ears.At those piercing shrieks, a Dormouse came into the room, a fat littleDormouse, who lived upstairs. Seeing Pinocchio so grief stricken, sheasked him anxiously:"What is the matter, dear little neighbor?""I am sick, my little Dormouse, very, very sick and from an illnesswhich frightens me! Do you understand how to feel the pulse?""A little.""Feel mine then and tell me if I have a fever."The Dormouse took Pinocchio's wrist between her paws and, after a fewminutes, looked up at him sorrowfully and said: "My friend, I am sorry,but I must give you some very sad news.""What is it?""You have a very bad fever.""But what fever is it?""The donkey fever.""I don't know anything about that fever," answered the Marionette,beginning to understand even too well what was happening to him."Then I will tell you all about it," said the Dormouse. "Know then that,within two or three hours, you will no longer be a Marionette, nor aboy.""What shall I be?""Within two or three hours you will become a real donkey, just like theones that pull the fruit carts to market.""Oh, what have I done? What have I done?" cried Pinocchio, grasping histwo long ears in his hands and pulling and tugging at them angrily, justas if they belonged to another."My dear boy," answered the Dormouse to cheer him up a bit, "why worrynow? What is done cannot be undone, you know. Fate has decreed that alllazy boys who come to hate books and schools and teachers and spend alltheir days with toys and games must sooner or later turn into donkeys.""But is it really so?" asked the Marionette, sobbing bitterly."I am sorry to say it is. And tears now are useless. You should havethought of all this before.""But the fault is not mine. Believe me, little Dormouse, the fault isall Lamp Wick's.""And who is this Lamp Wick?""A classmate of mine. I wanted to return home. I wanted to be obedient.I wanted to study and to succeed in school, but Lamp Wick said to me,'Why do you want to waste your time studying? Why do you want to go toschool? Come with me to the Land of Toys. There we'll never study again.There we can enjoy ourselves and be happy from morn till night.'""And why did you follow the advice of that false friend?""Why? Because, my dear little Dormouse, I am a heedlessMarionette heedless and heartless. Oh! If I had only had a bit ofheart, I should never have abandoned that good Fairy, who loved meso well and who has been so kind to me! And by this time, I should nolonger be a Marionette. I should have become a real boy, like all thesefriends of mine! Oh, if I meet Lamp Wick I am going to tell him what Ithink of him and more, too!"After this long speech, Pinocchio walked to the door of the room. Butwhen he reached it, remembering his donkey ears, he felt ashamed to showthem to the public and turned back. He took a large cotton bag from ashelf, put it on his head, and pulled it far down to his very nose.Thus adorned, he went out. He looked for Lamp Wick everywhere, along thestreets, in the squares, inside the theatres, everywhere. but he wasnot to be found. He asked everyone whom he met about him, but no one hadseen him. In desperation, he returned home and knocked at the door."Who is it?" asked Lamp Wick from within."It is I!" answered the Marionette."Wait a minute."After a full half hour the door opened. Another surprise awaitedPinocchio! There in the room stood his friend, with a large cotton bagon his head, pulled far down to his very nose.At the sight of that bag, Pinocchio felt slightly happier and thought tohimself:"My friend must be suffering from the same sickness that I am! I wonderif he, too, has donkey fever?"But pretending he had seen nothing, he asked with a smile:"How are you, my dear Lamp Wick?""Very well. Like a mouse in a Parmesan cheese.""Is that really true?""Why should I lie to you?""I beg your pardon, my friend, but why then are you wearing that cottonbag over your ears?""The doctor has ordered it because one of my knees hurts. And you, dearMarionette, why are you wearing that cotton bag down to your nose?""The doctor has ordered it because I have bruised my foot.""Oh, my poor Pinocchio!""Oh, my poor Lamp Wick!"An embarrassingly long silence followed these words, during which timethe two friends looked at each other in a mocking way.Finally the Marionette, in a voice sweet as honey and soft as a flute,said to his companion:"Tell me, Lamp Wick, dear friend, have you ever suffered from anearache?""Never! And you?""Never! Still, since this morning my ear has been torturing me.""So has mine.""Yours, too? And which ear is it?""Both of them. And yours?""Both of them, too. I wonder if it could be the same sickness.""I'm afraid it is.""Will you do me a favor, Lamp Wick?""Gladly! With my whole heart.""Will you let me see your ears?""Why not? But before I show you mine, I want to see yours, dearPinocchio.""No. You must show yours first.""No, my dear! Yours first, then mine.""Well, then," said the Marionette, "let us make a contract.""Let's hear the contract!""Let us take off our caps together. All right?""All right.""Ready then!"Pinocchio began to count, "One! Two! Three!"At the word "Three!" the two boys pulled off their caps and threw themhigh in air.And then a scene took place which is hard to believe, but it is all tootrue. The Marionette and his friend, Lamp Wick, when they saw each otherboth stricken by the same misfortune, instead of feeling sorrowful andashamed, began to poke fun at each other, and after much nonsense, theyended by bursting out into hearty laughter.They laughed and laughed, and laughed again laughed till theyached laughed till they cried.But all of a sudden Lamp Wick stopped laughing. He tottered and almostfell. Pale as a ghost, he turned to Pinocchio and said:"Help, help, Pinocchio!""What is the matter?""Oh, help me! I can no longer stand up.""I can't either," cried Pinocchio. and his laughter turned to tears ashe stumbled about helplessly.They had hardly finished speaking, when both of them fell on all foursand began running and jumping around the room. As they ran, their armsturned into legs, their faces lengthened into snouts and their backsbecame covered with long gray hairs.This was humiliation enough, but the most horrible moment was the onein which the two poor creatures felt their tails appear. Overcome withshame and grief, they tried to cry and bemoan their fate.But what is done can't be undone! Instead of moans and cries, they burstforth into loud donkey brays, which sounded very much like, "Haw! Haw!Haw!"At that moment, a loud knocking was heard at the door and a voice calledto them:"Open! I am the Little Man, the driver of the wagon which brought youhere. Open, I say, or beware!"