come for him, he drinks the medicine and feels better. Afterwards hetells a lie and, in punishment, his nose grows longer and longer.As soon as the three doctors had left the room, the Fairy went toPinocchio's bed and, touching him on the forehead, noticed that he wasburning with fever.She took a glass of water, put a white powder into it, and, handing itto the Marionette, said lovingly to him:"Drink this, and in a few days you'll be up and well."Pinocchio looked at the glass, made a wry face, and asked in a whiningvoice: "Is it sweet or bitter?""It is bitter, but it is good for you.""If it is bitter, I don't want it.""Drink it!""I don't like anything bitter.""Drink it and I'll give you a lump of sugar to take the bitter tastefrom your mouth.""Where's the sugar?""Here it is," said the Fairy, taking a lump from a golden sugar bowl."I want the sugar first, then I'll drink the bitter water.""Do you promise?""Yes."The Fairy gave him the sugar and Pinocchio, after chewing and swallowingit in a twinkling, said, smacking his lips:"If only sugar were medicine! I should take it every day.""Now keep your promise and drink these few drops of water. They'll begood for you."Pinocchio took the glass in both hands and stuck his nose into it. Helifted it to his mouth and once more stuck his nose into it."It is too bitter, much too bitter! I can't drink it.""How do you know, when you haven't even tasted it?""I can imagine it. I smell it. I want another lump of sugar, then I'lldrink it."The Fairy, with all the patience of a good mother, gave him more sugarand again handed him the glass."I can't drink it like that," the Marionette said, making more wryfaces."Why?""Because that feather pillow on my feet bothers me."The Fairy took away the pillow."It's no use. I can't drink it even now.""What's the matter now?""I don't like the way that door looks. It's half open."The Fairy closed the door."I won't drink it," cried Pinocchio, bursting out crying. "I won't drinkthis awful water. I won't. I won't! No, no, no, no!""My boy, you'll be sorry.""I don't care.""You are very sick.""I don't care.""In a few hours the fever will take you far away to another world.""I don't care.""Aren't you afraid of death?""Not a bit. I'd rather die than drink that awful medicine."At that moment, the door of the room flew open and in came four Rabbitsas black as ink, carrying a small black coffin on their shoulders."What do you want from me?" asked Pinocchio."We have come for you," said the largest Rabbit."For me? But I'm not dead yet!""No, not dead yet. but you will be in a few moments since you haverefused to take the medicine which would have made you well.""Oh, Fairy, my Fairy," the Marionette cried out, "give me that glass!Quick, please! I don't want to die! No, no, not yet not yet!"And holding the glass with his two hands, he swallowed the medicine atone gulp."Well," said the four Rabbits, "this time we have made the trip fornothing."And turning on their heels, they marched solemnly out of the room,carrying their little black coffin and muttering and grumbling betweentheir teeth.In a twinkling, Pinocchio felt fine. With one leap he was out of bed andinto his clothes.The Fairy, seeing him run and jump around the room gay as a bird onwing, said to him:"My medicine was good for you, after all, wasn't it?""Good indeed! It has given me new life.""Why, then, did I have to beg you so hard to make you drink it?""I'm a boy, you see, and all boys hate medicine more than they dosickness.""What a shame! Boys ought to know, after all, that medicine, taken intime, can save them from much pain and even from death.""Next time I won't have to be begged so hard. I'll remember those blackRabbits with the black coffin on their shoulders and I'll take the glassand pouf! down it will go!""Come here now and tell me how it came about that you found yourself inthe hands of the Assassins.""It happened that Fire Eater gave me five gold pieces to give to myFather, but on the way, I met a Fox and a Cat, who asked me, 'Do youwant the five pieces to become two thousand?' And I said, 'Yes.' Andthey said, 'Come with us to the Field of Wonders.' And I said, 'Let'sgo.' Then they said, 'Let us stop at the Inn of the Red Lobster fordinner and after midnight we'll set out again.' We ate and went tosleep. When I awoke they were gone and I started out in the darkness allalone. On the road I met two Assassins dressed in black coal sacks,who said to me, 'Your money or your life!' and I said, 'I haven't anymoney'. for, you see, I had put the money under my tongue. One of themtried to put his hand in my mouth and I bit it off and spat it out. butit wasn't a hand, it was a cat's paw. And they ran after me and I ranand ran, till at last they caught me and tied my neck with a rope andhanged me to a tree, saying, 'Tomorrow we'll come back for you andyou'll be dead and your mouth will be open, and then we'll take the goldpieces that you have hidden under your tongue.'""Where are the gold pieces now?" the Fairy asked."I lost them," answered Pinocchio, but he told a lie, for he had them inhis pocket.As he spoke, his nose, long though it was, became at least two incheslonger."And where did you lose them?""In the wood near by."At this second lie, his nose grew a few more inches."If you lost them in the near by wood," said the Fairy, "we'll look forthem and find them, for everything that is lost there is always found.""Ah, now I remember," replied the Marionette, becoming more and moreconfused. "I did not lose the gold pieces, but I swallowed them when Idrank the medicine."At this third lie, his nose became longer than ever, so long that hecould not even turn around. If he turned to the right, he knocked itagainst the bed or into the windowpanes. if he turned to the left, hestruck the walls or the door. if he raised it a bit, he almost put theFairy's eyes out.The Fairy sat looking at him and laughing."Why do you laugh?" the Marionette asked her, worried now at the sightof his growing nose."I am laughing at your lies.""How do you know I am lying?""Lies, my boy, are known in a moment. There are two kinds of lies, lieswith short legs and lies with long noses. Yours, just now, happen tohave long noses."Pinocchio, not knowing where to hide his shame, tried to escape from theroom, but his nose had become so long that he could not get it out ofthe door.