Version AOnce a rabbit and wolf went out one day to catch some fish. The wolf caught all the fish, and the rabbit didn't catch any.So the rabbit said to himself, "I am going home to my wife."Then he said to the wolf, "Brer Wolf, you have caught all the fish, and I have not caught any. and tomorrow morning your wife will be eating fish, and mine will be qu'rrling.""I don't care," said Brer Wolf."Please give me some fish for my wife!"" I'll not, Brer Rabbit."Then Brer Rabbit said to himself, "Never mind! I will go and lie in the road where Brer Wolf has got to come along."Brer Rabbit went and laid in the middle of the road. The wolf came along with his basket of fish. The old rabbit pretended to be dead.Brer Wolf kicked him over, and said, "Ha! here is an old dead rabbit," and passed on.The rabbit went under the hill and got in the road again, and lay in the road as if he was dead.The old wolf came on and kicked him over, and said, "Ha! here is another dead rabbit," and passed on.Brer Rabbit went around him and got into the road again. When Brer Wolf came along to this dead rabbit, he set his basket of fish down, and went back to get the first rabbit. and then the rabbit got his basket of fish.Version BA rabbit once said to a fox, "Let us go fishing!""All right!" said the fox.The fox took the basket and went in the boat. while the rabbit sat upon the hill and played the violin, which she said would make the fish bite.When she saw that the fox had his basket full of fish, she ran down the path some distance, feigning to be dead. When the fox came along and saw her, he wondered, but passed on. After the fox had passed some way, the rabbit jumped up and ran through the bushes, heading the fox, and lay down in the road as before. And the rabbit did this way the third time. and when the fox found the third dead rabbit, he said that he would go back and count them. He put his fish down by this last dead rabbit, and went back to count. but when he returned, he had found no dead rabbits and his fish were gone. for, when he turned his back, the rabbit got up and took the basket of fish away.Version CNear St. Louis there lived a bear who loved to go a fishing. Once he fished all day in the Mississippi River. A cunning little hare thought of a trick to play on the bear to rob him of his nice string of fish. He ran around in front of the bear, and lay down across his path as if he was dead. The bear kicked him, and, seeing he was stiff, jumped over him. The hare got up and ran around the bear, and lay down across his path again."There lays another old dead hare," said the bear. The hare jumped up and ran around a third time, and lay down across the bear's path."What a nice meal I should have if I had those two which are left behind!" said the bear.He laid down his fish and went back to get them. He could not find them. and when he hurried back to get his fish, there was no trace of them, nor of the hare which he had left with the fish.Version DOnce a fox heard a rabbit had outwitted a wolf. He decided not to be friends to her any more. But Mis' Rabbit came and begged his pardon, and it was granted.Mr. Fox offered to go hunting with Mis' Rabbit. but the rabbit was lazy and played off sick, and stayed at Mr. Fox's house till he was very near ready to come back. Then she ran way down the road, and curled up and played off dead. Brer Fox came 'long and looked at her. but he thought probably she had been dead too long, so he passed on.As soon as Brer Fox was out of sight, Mis' Rabbit jumped up and ran through the field and got ahead of him, and laid down again to fake Mr. Fox.This time he looked at her and he looked into his bag. His bag was large enough to accommodate one or two more, so he put Mis' Rabbit in, and put his bag in the grass, and went back to get the other rabbit. Before he was around the corner Mis' Rabbit jumped up and ran home with Mr. Fox's game.So Mr. Fox found no game when he returned.But one day Mis' Rabbit was walking along, and she asked Mr. Fox what he killed. He said he killed a lot of game, but he had learned a headful of har' sense.She laughed and went on.