A fox once hired a rabbit to help him work on his farm, and the fox's wife had to cook for them. They began work early in the morning, while Mrs. Fox was cooking pease, of which the rabbit was very fond. He would work to get to the end of the row before Mr. Fox, and answer as if some one had called him.Mr. Fox would say, "Who is that?"The rabbit would say, "Your wife called me, I don't know what she wants."Mr. Fox would say, "Go see what she wants."The rabbit would go to the house and say, "Mrs. Fox, Mr. Fox says give me a plate of pease, please.""All right!" said Mrs. Fox, "Tell him there are only two more left."When Mr. Rabbit began work, he would run to the end of the row and back, and answer again. Mr. Fox would say, "Who is that?"The rabbit would say, "Your wife called me again. I don't know what she wants.""Go and see what she wants," said the fox. Then Mr. Rabbit would go, and say to Mrs. Fox, "Mr. Fox says give me another plate of pease.""Please tell him there's only one more left."Mr. Rabbit ate the pease and went back the third time.At noon Mr. Fox said, "Come, Mr. Rabbit! we'll go and get our dinner."The rabbit said, "Oh, no, Mr. Fox! I don't care for any dinner.""I don't want anybody to work for me without eating," said Mr. Fox.Mr. Rabbit went, but would not keep up with Mr. Fox.Mrs. Fox met Mr. Fox in the yard, and asked where he was going, and also told him there was no dinner because he had sent Mr. Rabbit to eat all the pease.Mr. Fox said, "Never mind, never mind! I'll catch you. Go in the dairy and bring me that butter."The rabbit went in and stuck his front paw in the butter, but it stuck fast. He said, "Never mind, never mind! I have another paw here." He stuck it in, and it stuck fast."Never mind, never mind! I still have another one here." He stuck that one in, and it stuck fast."Never mind, never mind! got one more here," and that stuck fast."Never mind, never mind! I got a mouth here." He put his mouth in, and it stuck fast.Then Mr. Fox came upon him, and said, "Now I have you! I am going to kill you. I am going to throw you in a pile of briers."The rabbit said, "Please don't throw me in the briers! You may burn me, you may roast me, but please don't throw me in the briers! You will tear my face and eyes to pieces."Then Mr. Fox took him, and threw him in the briers.The rabbit laughed, "Ha, ha, ha! you threw me to my home in bamboo briers. I was bred and born in a brier patch."