In a certain village there lived ten cloth merchants, who always wentabout together. Once upon a time they had travelled far afield, andwere returning home with a great deal of money which they had obtainedby selling their wares. Now there happened to be a dense forest neartheir village, and this they reached early one morning. In it therelived three notorious robbers, of whose existence the traders hadnever heard, and while they were still in the middle of it the robbersstood before them, with swords and cudgels in their hands, and orderedthem to lay down all they had. The traders had no weapons with them,and so, though they were many more in number, they had to submitthemselves to the robbers, who took away everything from them, eventhe very clothes they wore, and gave to each only a small loin cloth aspan in breadth and a cubit in length.The idea that they had conquered ten men and plundered all theirproperty, now took possession of the robbers' minds. They seatedthemselves like three monarchs before the men they had plundered, andordered them to dance to them before returning home. The merchantsnow mourned their fate. They had lost all they had, except theirloin cloth, and still the robbers were not satisfied, but ordered themto dance.There was, among the ten merchants, one who was very clever. Hepondered over the calamity that had come upon him and his friends, thedance they would have to perform, and the magnificent manner in whichthe three robbers had seated themselves on the grass. At the same timehe observed that these last had placed their weapons on the ground, inthe assurance of having thoroughly cowed the traders, who were nowcommencing to dance. So he took the lead in the dance, and, as a songis always sung by the leader on such occasions, to which the rest keeptime with hands and feet, he thus began to sing:"We are enty men,They are erith men:If each erith man,Surround eno menEno man remains._Ta, tai, tom, tadingana._"The robbers were all uneducated, and thought that the leader wasmerely singing a song as usual. So it was in one sense. for the leadercommenced from a distance, and had sung the song over twice before heand his companions commenced to approach the robbers. They hadunderstood his meaning, because they had been trained in trade.When two traders discuss the price of an article in the presence of apurchaser, they use a riddling sort of language.