ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen who had two beautiful sonsand one little daughter, who was so pretty that no one who saw her couldhelp loving her. When it was time for the christening of the Princess,the Queen as she always did sent for all the fairies to be present atthe ceremony, and afterwards invited them to a splendid banquet.When it was over, and they were preparing to go away, the Queen said tothem:'Do not forget your usual good custom. Tell me what is going to happento Rosette.'For that was the name they had given the Princess.But the fairies said they had left their book of magic at home, and theywould come another day and tell her.'Ah!' said the Queen, 'I know very well what that means you havenothing good to say. but at least I beg that you will not hide anythingfrom me.'So, after a great deal of persuasion, they said:'Madam, we fear that Rosette may be the cause of great misfortunes toher brothers. they may even meet with their death through her. that isall we have been able to foresee about your dear little daughter. We arevery sorry to have nothing better to tell you.'Then they went away, leaving the Queen very sad, so sad that the Kingnoticed it, and asked her what was the matter.The Queen said that she had been sitting too near the fire, and hadburnt all the flax that was upon her distaff.'Oh! is that all?' said the King, and he went up into the garret andbrought her down more flax than she could spin in a hundred years. Butthe Queen still looked sad, and the King asked her again what was thematter. She answered that she had been walking by the river and haddropped one of her green satin slippers into the water.'Oh! if that's all,' said the King, and he sent to all the shoe makersin his kingdom, and they very soon made the Queen ten thousand greensatin slippers, but still she looked sad. So the King asked her againwhat was the matter, and this time she answered that in eating herporridge too hastily she had swallowed her wedding ring. But it sohappened that the King knew better, for he had the ring himself, and hesaid:'Oh I you are not telling me the truth, for I have your ring here in mypurse.'Then the Queen was very much ashamed, and she saw that the King wasvexed with her. so she told him all that the fairies had predicted aboutRosette, and begged him to think how the misfortunes might be prevented.Then it was the King's turn to look sad, and at last he said:'I see no way of saving our sons except by having Rosette's head cut offwhile she is still little.'But the Queen cried that she would far rather have her own head cutoff, and that he had better think of something else, for she would neverconsent to such a thing. So they thought and thought, but they could nottell what to do, until at last the Queen heard that in a great forestnear the castle there was an old hermit, who lived in a hollow tree, andthat people came from far and near to consult him. so she said:'I had better go and ask his advice. perhaps he will know what to do toprevent the misfortunes which the fairies foretold.'She set out very early the next morning, mounted upon a pretty littlewhite mule, which was shod with solid gold, and two of her ladiesrode behind her on beautiful horses. When they reached the forest theydismounted, for the trees grew so thickly that the horses could notpass, and made their way on foot to the hollow tree where the hermitlived. At first when he saw them coming he was vexed, for he was notfond of ladies. but when he recognised the Queen, he said:'You are welcome, Queen. What do you come to ask of me?'Then the Queen told him all the fairies had foreseen for Rosette, andasked what she should do, and the hermit answered that she must shut thePrincess up in a tower and never let her come out of it again. The Queenthanked and rewarded him, and hastened back to the castle to tell theKing. When he heard the news he had a great tower built as quickly aspossible, and there the Princess was shut up, and the King and Queen andher two brothers went to see her every day that she might not be dull.The eldest brother was called 'the Great Prince,' and the second'the Little Prince.' They loved their sister dearly, for she was thesweetest, prettiest princess who was ever seen, and the least littlesmile from her was worth more than a hundred pieces of gold. WhenRosette was fifteen years old the Great Prince went to the King andasked if it would not soon be time for her to be married, and the LittlePrince put the same question to the Queen.Their majesties were amused at them for thinking of it, but did not makeany reply, and soon after both the King and the Queen were taken ill,and died on the same day. Everybody was sorry, Rosette especially, andall the bells in the kingdom were tolled.Then all the dukes and counsellors put the Great Prince upon a goldenthrone, and crowned him with a diamond crown, and they all cried,'Long live the King!' And after that there was nothing but feasting andrejoicing.The new King and his brother said to one another:'Now that we are the masters, let us take our sister out of that dulltower which she is so tired of.'They had only to go across the garden to reach the tower, which was veryhigh, and stood up in a corner. Rosette was busy at her embroidery, butwhen she saw her brothers she got up, and taking the King's hand cried:'Good morning, dear brother. Now that you are King, please take me outof this dull tower, for I am so tired of it.'Then she began to cry, but the King kissed her and told her to dry hertears, as that was just what they had come for, to take her out of thetower and bring her to their beautiful castle, and the Prince showed herthe pocketful of sugar plums he had brought for her, and said:'Make haste, and let us get away from this ugly tower, and very soon theKing will arrange a grand marriage for you.'When Rosette saw the beautiful garden, full of fruit and flowers, withgreen grass and sparkling fountains, she was so astonished that not aword could she say, for she had never in her life seen anything like itbefore. She looked about her, and ran hither and thither gathering fruitand flowers, and her little dog Frisk, who was bright green all over,and had but one ear, danced before her, crying 'Bow wow wow,' andturning head over heels in the most enchanting way.Everybody was amused at Frisk's antics, but all of a sudden he ran awayinto a little wood, and the Princess was following him, when, to hergreat delight, she saw a peacock, who was spreading his tail in thesunshine. Rosette thought she had never seen anything so pretty. Shecould not take her eyes off him, and there she stood entranced until theKing and the Prince came up and asked what was amusing her so much. Sheshowed them the peacock, and asked what it was, and they answered thatit was a bird which people sometimes ate.'What!' said the Princess, 'do they dare to kill that beautiful creatureand eat it? I declare that I will never marry any one but the King ofthe Peacocks, and when I am Queen I will take very good care that nobodyeats any of my subjects.'At this the King was very much astonished.'But, little sister,' said he, 'where shall we find the King of thePeacocks?''Oh! wherever you like, sire,' she answered, 'but I will never marry anyone else.'After this they took Rosette to the beautiful castle, and the peacockwas brought with her, and told to walk about on the terrace outside herwindows, so that she might always see him, and then the ladies ofthe court came to see the Princess, and they brought her beautifulpresents dresses and ribbons and sweetmeats, diamonds and pearls anddolls and embroidered slippers, and she was so well brought up, andsaid, 'Thank you!' so prettily, and was so gracious, that everyone wentaway delighted with her.Meanwhile the King and the Prince were considering how they should findthe King of the Peacocks, if there was such a person in the world. Andfirst of all they had a portrait made of the Princess, which was so likeher that you really would not have been surprised if it had spoken toyou. Then they said to her:'Since you will not marry anyone but the King of the Peacocks, we aregoing out together into the wide world to search for him. If we find himfor you we shall be very glad. In the meantime, mind you take good careof our kingdom.'Rosette thanked them for all the trouble they were taking on heraccount, and promised to take great care of the kingdom, and only toamuse herself by looking at the peacock, and making Frisk dance whilethey were away.So they set out, and asked everyone they met 'Do you know the King of the Peacocks?'But the answer was always, 'No, no.'Then they went on and on, so far that no one has ever been farther, andat last they came to the Kingdom of the Cockchafers.They had never before seen such a number of cockchafers, and the buzzingwas so loud that the King was afraid he should be deafened by it. Heasked the most distinguished looking cockchafer they met if he knewwhere they could find the King of the Peacocks.'Sire,' replied the cockchafer, 'his kingdom is thirty thousand leaguesfrom this. you have come the longest way.''And how do you know that?' said the King.'Oh!' said the cockchafer, 'we all know you very well, since we spendtwo or three months in your garden every year.'Thereupon the King and the Prince made great friends with him, and theyall walked arm in arm and dined together, and afterwards the cockchafershowed them all the curiosities of his strange country, where thetiniest green leaf costs a gold piece and more. Then they set out againto finish their journey, and this time, as they knew the way, they werenot long upon the road. It was easy to guess that they had come to theright place, for they saw peacocks in every tree, and their cries couldbe heard a long way off:When they reached the city they found it full of men and women who weredressed entirely in peacocks' feathers, which were evidently thoughtprettier than anything else.They soon met the King, who was driving about in a beautiful littlegolden carriage which glittered with diamonds, and was drawn at fullspeed by twelve peacocks. The King and the Prince were delighted to seethat the King of the Peacocks was as handsome as possible. He hadcurly golden hair and was very pale, and he wore a crown of peacocks'feathers.When he saw Rosette's brothers he knew at once that they were strangers,and stopping his carriage he sent for them to speak to him. When theyhad greeted him they said:'Sire, we have come from very far away to show you a beautifulportrait.'So saying they drew from their travelling bag the picture of Rosette.The King looked at it in silence a long time, but at last he said:'I could not have believed that there was such a beautiful Princess inthe world!''Indeed, she is really a hundred times as pretty as that,' said herbrothers.'I think you must be making fun of me,' replied the King of thePeacocks.'Sire,' said the Prince, 'my brother is a King, like yourself. Heis called "the King," I am called "the Prince," and that is theportrait of our sister, the Princess Rosette. We have come to ask if youwould like to marry her. She is as good as she is beautiful, and we willgive her a bushel of gold pieces for her dowry.''Oh! with all my heart,' replied the King, 'and I will make her veryhappy. She shall have whatever she likes, and I shall love her dearly.only I warn you that if she is not as pretty as you have told me, I willhave your heads cut off.''Oh! certainly, we quite agree to that,' said the brothers in onebreath.'Very well. Off with you into prison, and stay there until the Princessarrives,' said the King of the Peacocks.And the Princes were so sure that Rosette was far prettier than herportrait that they went without a murmur. They were very kindly treated,and that they might not feel dull the King came often to see them. Asfor Rosette's portrait that was taken up to the palace, and the King didnothing but gaze at it all day and all night.As the King and the Prince had to stay in prison, they sent a letterto the Princess telling her to pack up all her treasures as quickly aspossible, and come to them, as the King of the Peacocks was waiting tomarry her. but they did not say that they were in prison, for fear ofmaking her uneasy.When Rosette received the letter she was so delighted that she ran abouttelling everyone that the King of the Peacocks was found, and she wasgoing to marry him.Guns were fired, and fireworks let off. Everyone had as many cakes andsweetmeats as he wanted. And for three days everybody who came tosee the Princess was presented with a slice of bread and jam, anightingale's egg, and some hippocras. After having thus entertained herfriends, she distributed her dolls among them, and left her brother'skingdom to the care of the wisest old men of the city, telling them totake charge of everything, not to spend any money, but save it all upuntil the King should return, and above all, not to forget to feedher peacock. Then she set out, only taking with her her nurse, and thenurse's daughter, and the little green dog Frisk.They took a boat and put out to sea, carrying with them the bushel ofgold pieces, and enough dresses to last the Princess ten years if shewore two every day, and they did nothing but laugh and sing. The nurseasked the boatman:'Can you take us, can you take us to the kingdom of the peacocks?'But he answered:'Oh no! oh no!'Then she said:'You must take us, you must take us.'And he answered:'Very soon, very soon.'Then the nurse said:'Will you take us? will you take us?'And the boatman answered:'Yes, yes.'Then she whispered in his ear:'Do you want to make your fortune?'And he said:'Certainly I do.''I can tell you how to get a bag of gold,' said she.'I ask nothing better,' said the boatman.'Well,' said the nurse, 'to night, when the Princess is asleep, you musthelp me to throw her into the sea, and when she is drowned I will puther beautiful clothes upon my daughter, and we will take her to the Kingof the Peacocks, who will be only too glad to marry her, and as yourreward you shall have your boat full of diamonds.'The boatman was very much surprised at this proposal, and said:'But what a pity to drown such a pretty Princess!'However, at last the nurse persuaded him to help her, and when the nightcame and the Princess was fast asleep as usual, with Frisk curled upon his own cushion at the foot of her bed, the wicked nurse fetched theboatman and her daughter, and between them they picked up the Princess,feather bed, mattress, pillows, blankets and all, and threw her intothe sea, without even waking her. Now, luckily, the Princess's bed wasentirely stuffed with phoenix feathers, which are very rare, and havethe property of always floating upon water, so Rosette went on swimmingabout as if she had been in a boat. After a little while she beganto feel very cold, and turned round so often that she woke Frisk, whostarted up, and, having a very good nose, smelt the soles and herringsso close to him that he began to bark. He barked so long and soloud that he woke all the other fish, who came swimming up round thePrincess's bed, and poking at it with their great heads. As for her, shesaid to herself:'How our boat does rock upon the water! I am really glad that I am notoften as uncomfortable as I have been to night.'The wicked nurse and the boatman, who were by this time quite a long wayoff, heard Frisk barking, and said to each other:'That horrid little animal and his mistress are drinking our health insea water now. Let us make haste to land, for we must be quite near thecity of the King of the Peacocks.'The King had sent a hundred carriages to meet them, drawn by everykind of strange animal. There were lions, bears, wolves, stags, horses,buffaloes, eagles, and peacocks. The carriage intended for the PrincessRosette had six blue monkeys, which could turn summer saults, and danceon a tight rope, and do many other charming tricks. Their harness wasall of crimson velvet with gold buckles, and behind the carriage walkedsixty beautiful ladies chosen by the King to wait upon Rosette and amuseher.The nurse had taken all the pains imaginable to deck out her daughter.She put on her Rosette's prettiest frock, and covered her with diamondsfrom head to foot. But she was so ugly that nothing could make herlook nice, and what was worse, she was sulky and ill tempered, and didnothing but grumble all the time.When she stepped from the boat and the escort sent by the King of thePeacocks caught sight of her, they were so surprised that they could notsay a single word.'Now then, look alive,' cried the false Princess. 'If you don't bring mesomething to eat I will have all your heads cut off!'Then they whispered one to another:'Here's a pretty state of things! she is as wicked as she is ugly. Whata bride for our poor King! She certainly was not worth bringing from theother end of the world!'But she went on ordering them all about, and for no fault at all wouldgive slaps and pinches to everyone she could reach.As the procession was so long it advanced but slowly, and the nurse'sdaughter sat up in her carriage trying to look like a Queen. But thepeacocks, who were sitting upon every tree waiting to salute her, andwho had made up their minds to cry, 'Long live our beautiful Queen!'when they caught sight of the false bride could not help crying instead:'Oh! how ugly she is!'Which offended her so much that she said to the guards:'Make haste and kill all these insolent peacocks who have dared toinsult me.'But the peacocks only flew away, laughing at her.The rogue of a boatman, who noticed all this, said softly to the nurse:'This is a bad business for us, gossip. your daughter ought to have beenprettier.'But she answered:'Be quiet, stupid, or you will spoil everything.'Now they told the King that the Princess was approaching.'Well,' said he, 'did her brothers tell me truly? Is she prettier thanher portrait?''Sire,' they answered, 'if she were as pretty that would do very well.''That's true,' said the King. 'I for one shall be quite satisfied if sheis. Let us go and meet her.' For they knew by the uproar that she hadarrived, but they could not tell what all the shouting was about. TheKing thought he could hear the words:'How ugly she is! How ugly she is!' and he fancied they must refer tosome dwarf the Princess was bringing with her. It never occurred to himthat they could apply to the bride herself.The Princess Rosette's portrait was carried at the head of theprocession, and after it walked the King surrounded by his courtiers. Hewas all impatience to see the lovely Princess, but when he caught sightof the nurse's daughter he was furiously angry, and would not advanceanother step. For she was really ugly enough to have frightened anybody.'What!' he cried, 'have the two rascals who are my prisoners dared toplay me such a trick as this? Do they propose that I shall marry thishideous creature? Let her be shut up in my great tower, with her nurseand those who brought her here. and as for them, I will have their headscut off.'Meanwhile the King and the Prince, who knew that their sister must havearrived, had made themselves smart, and sat expecting every minute tobe summoned to greet her. So when the gaoler came with soldiers, andcarried them down into a black dungeon which swarmed with toads andbats, and where they were up to their necks in water, nobody could havebeen more surprised and dismayed than they were.'This is a dismal kind of wedding,' they said. 'what can have happenedthat we should be treated like this? They must mean to kill us.'And this idea annoyed them very much. Three days passed before theyheard any news, and then the King of the Peacocks came and berated themthrough a hole in the wall.'You have called yourselves King and Prince,' he cried, 'to try and makeme marry your sister, but you are nothing but beggars, not worth thewater you drink. I mean to make short work with you, and the sword isbeing sharpened that will cut off your heads!''King of the Peacocks,' answered the King angrily, 'you had better takecare what you are about. I am as good a King as yourself, and have asplendid kingdom and robes and crowns, and plenty of good red gold todo what I like with. You are pleased to jest about having our heads cutoff. perhaps you think we have stolen something from you?'At first the King of the Peacocks was taken aback by this bold speech,and had half a mind to send them all away together. but his PrimeMinister declared that it would never do to let such a trick as thatpass unpunished, everybody would laugh at him. so the accusation wasdrawn up against them, that they were impostors, and that they hadpromised the King a beautiful Princess in marriage who, when shearrived, proved to be an ugly peasant girl.This accusation was read to the prisoners, who cried out that they hadspoken the truth, that their sister was indeed a Princess more beautifulthan the day, and that there was some mystery about all this which theycould not fathom. Therefore they demanded seven days in which to provetheir innocence, The King of the Peacocks was so angry that he wouldhardly even grant them this favour, but at last he was persuaded to doso.While all this was going on at court, let us see what had been happeningto the real Princess. When the day broke she and Frisk were equallyastonished at finding themselves alone upon the sea, with no boat andno one to help them. The Princess cried and cried, until even the fisheswere sorry for her.'Alas!' she said, 'the King of the Peacocks must have ordered me to bethrown into the sea because he had changed his mind and did not want tomarry me. But how strange of him, when I should have loved him so much,and we should have been so happy together!'And then she cried harder than ever, for she could not help still lovinghim. So for two days they floated up and down the sea, wet and shiveringwith the cold, and so hungry that when the Princess saw some oysters shecaught them, and she and Frisk both ate some, though they didn't likethem at all. When night came the Princess was so frightened that shesaid to Frisk:'Oh! Do please keep on barking for fear the soles should come and eat usup!'Now it happened that they had floated close in to the shore, where apoor old man lived all alone in a little cottage. When he heard Frisk'sbarking he thought to himself:'There must have been a shipwreck!' (for no dogs ever passed that way byany chance), and he went out to see if he could be of any use. He soonsaw the Princess and Frisk floating up and down, and Rosette, stretchingout her hands to him, cried:'Oh! Good old man, do save me, or I shall die of cold and hunger!'When he heard her cry out so piteously he was very sorry for her, andran back into his house to fetch a long boat hook. Then he waded intothe water up to his chin, and after being nearly drowned once or twicehe at last succeeded in getting hold of the Princess's bed and draggingit on shore.Rosette and Frisk were joyful enough to find themselves once more ondry land, and the Princess thanked the old man heartily. then, wrappingherself up in her blankets, she daintily picked her way up to thecottage on her little bare feet. There the old man lighted a fire ofstraw, and then drew from an old box his wife's dress and shoes,which the Princess put on, and thus roughly clad looked as charming aspossible, and Frisk danced his very best to amuse her.The old man saw that Rosette must be some great lady, for her bedcoverings were all of satin and gold. He begged that she would tell himall her history, as she might safely trust him. The Princess told himeverything, weeping bitterly again at the thought that it was by theKing's orders that she had been thrown overboard.'And now, my daughter, what is to be done?' said the old man. 'You are agreat Princess, accustomed to fare daintily, and I have nothing to offeryou but black bread and radishes, which will not suit you at all. ShallI go and tell the King of the Peacocks that you are here? If he sees youhe will certainly wish to marry you.''Oh no!' cried Rosette, 'he must be wicked, since he tried to drown me.Don't let us tell him, but if you have a little basket give it to me.'The old man gave her a basket, and tying it round Frisk's neck she saidto him: 'Go and find out the best cooking pot in the town and bring thecontents to me.'Away went Frisk, and as there was no better dinner cooking in all thetown than the King's, he adroitly took the cover off the pot and broughtall it contained to the Princess, who said:'Now go back to the pantry, and bring the best of everything you findthere.'So Frisk went back and filled his basket with white bread, and red wine,and every kind of sweetmeat, until it was almost too heavy for him tocarry.When the King of the Peacocks wanted his dinner there was nothing in thepot and nothing in the pantry. All the courtiers looked at one anotherin dismay, and the King was terribly cross.'Oh well! 'he said, 'if there is no dinner I cannot dine, but take carethat plenty of things are roasted for supper.'When evening came the Princess said to Frisk:'Go into the town and find out the best kitchen, and bring me all thenicest morsels that are being roasted upon the spit.'Frisk did as he was told, and as he knew of no better kitchen than theKing's, he went in softly, and when the cook's back was turned tookeverything that was upon the spit, As it happened it was all done toa turn, and looked so good that it made him hungry only to see it. Hecarried his basket to the Princess, who at once sent him back to thepantry to bring all the tarts and sugar plums that had been prepared forthe King's supper.The King, as he had had no dinner, was very hungry and wanted his supperearly, but when he asked for it, lo and behold it was all gone, and hehad to go to bed half starved and in a terrible temper. The next day thesame thing happened, and the next, so that for three days the King gotnothing at all to eat, because just when the dinner or the supperwas ready to be served it mysteriously disappeared. At last the PrimeMinister began to be afraid that the King would be starved to death,so he resolved to hide himself in some dark corner of the kitchen, andnever take his eyes off the cooking pot. His surprise was great whenhe presently saw a little green dog with one ear slip softly into thekitchen, uncover the pot, transfer all its contents to his basket,and run off. The Prime Minister followed hastily, and tracked him allthrough the town to the cottage of the good old man. then he ran backto the King and told him that he had found out where all his dinnersand suppers went. The King, who was very much astonished, said he shouldlike to go and see for himself. So he set out, accompanied by the PrimeMinister and a guard of archers, and arrived just in time to find theold man and the Princess finishing his dinner.The King ordered that they should be seized and bound with ropes, andFrisk also.When they were brought back to the palace some one told the King, whosaid:'To day is the last day of the respite granted to those impostors. theyshall have their heads cut off at the same time as these stealers ofmy dinner.' Then the old man went down on his knees before the King andbegged for time to tell him everything. While he spoke the King for thefirst time looked attentively at the Princess, because he was sorry tosee how she cried, and when he heard the old man saying that her namewas Rosette, and that she had been treacherously thrown into the sea, heturned head over heels three times without stopping, in spite of beingquite weak from hunger, and ran to embrace her, and untied the ropeswhich bound her with his own hands, declaring that he loved her with allhis heart.Messengers were sent to bring the Princes out of prison, and they camevery sadly, believing that they were to be executed at once: the nurseand her daughter and the boatman were brought also. As soon as theycame in Rosette ran to embrace her brothers, while the traitors threwthemselves down before her and begged for mercy. The King and thePrincess were so happy that they freely forgave them, and as for thegood old man he was splendidly rewarded, and spent the rest of his daysin the palace. The King of the Peacocks made ample amends to theKing and Prince for the way in which they had been treated, and dideverything in his power to show how sorry he was.The nurse restored to Rosette all her dresses and jewels, and the bushelof gold pieces. the wedding was held at once, and they all lived happilyever after even to Frisk, who enjoyed the greatest luxury, and neverhad anything worse than the wing of a partridge for dinner all the restof his life.(7)(7) Madame d'Aulnoy.THE ENCHANTED PIGONCE upon a time there lived a King who had three daughters. Now ithappened that he had to go out to battle, so he called his daughters andsaid to them:'My dear children, I am obliged to go to the wars. The enemy isapproaching us with a large army. It is a great grief to me to leave youall. During my absence take care of yourselves and be good girls. behavewell and look after everything in the house. You may walk in the garden,and you may go into all the rooms in the palace, except the room at theback in the right hand corner. into that you must not enter, for harmwould befall you.''You may keep your mind easy, father,' they replied. 'We have neverbeen disobedient to you. Go in peace, and may heaven give you a gloriousvictory!'When everything was ready for his departure, the King gave them the keysof all the rooms and reminded them once more of what he had said. Hisdaughters kissed his hands with tears in their eyes, and wished himprosperity, and he gave the eldest the keys.Now when the girls found themselves alone they felt so sad and dull thatthey did not know what to do. So, to pass the time, they decided towork for part of the day, to read for part of the day, and to enjoythemselves in the garden for part of the day. As long as they did thisall went well with them. But this happy state of things did not lastlong. Every day they grew more and more curious, and you will see whatthe end of that was.'Sisters,' said the eldest Princess, 'all day long we sew, spin, andread. We have been several days quite alone, and there is no corner ofthe garden that we have not explored. We have been in all the rooms ofour father's palace, and have admired the rich and beautiful furniture:why should not we go into the room that our father forbad us to enter?'Sister,' said the youngest, 'I cannot think how you can tempt us tobreak our father's command. When he told us not to go into that roomhe must have known what he was saying, and have had a good reason forsaying it.''Surely the sky won't fall about our heads if we DO go in,' said thesecond Princess. 'Dragons and such like monsters that would devour uswill not be hidden in the room. And how will our father ever find outthat we have gone in?'While they were speaking thus, encouraging each other, they had reachedthe room. the eldest fitted the key into the lock, and snap! the doorstood open.The three girls entered, and what do you think they saw?The room was quite empty, and without any ornament, but in the middlestood a large table, with a gorgeous cloth, and on it lay a big openbook.Now the Princesses were curious to know what was written in the book,especially the eldest, and this is what she read:'The eldest daughter of this King will marry a prince from the East.'Then the second girl stepped forward, and turning over the page sheread:'The second daughter of this King will marry a prince from the West.'The girls were delighted, and laughed and teased each other.But the youngest Princess did not want to go near the table or to openthe book. Her elder sisters however left her no peace, and will she,nill she, they dragged her up to the table, and in fear and tremblingshe turned over the page and read:'The youngest daughter of this King will be married to a pig from theNorth.'Now if a thunderbolt had fallen upon her from heaven it would not havefrightened her more.She almost died of misery, and if her sisters had not held her up, shewould have sunk to the ground and cut her head open.When she came out of the fainting fit into which she had fallen in herterror, her sisters tried to comfort her, saying:'How can you believe such nonsense? When did it ever happen that aking's daughter married a pig?''What a baby you are!' said the other sister. 'has not our father enoughsoldiers to protect you, even if the disgusting creature did come to wooyou?'The youngest Princess would fain have let herself be convinced by hersisters' words, and have believed what they said, but her heart washeavy. Her thoughts kept turning to the book, in which stood writtenthat great happiness waited her sisters, but that a fate was in storefor her such as had never before been known in the world.Besides, the thought weighed on her heart that she had been guilty ofdisobeying her father. She began to get quite ill, and in a few days shewas so changed that it was difficult to recognise her. formerly she hadbeen rosy and merry, now she was pale and nothing gave her any pleasure.She gave up playing with her sisters in the garden, ceased to gatherflowers to put in her hair, and never sang when they sat together attheir spinning and sewing.In the meantime the King won a great victory, and having completelydefeated and driven off the enemy, he hurried home to his daughters, towhom his thoughts had constantly turned. Everyone went out to meet himwith cymbals and fifes and drums, and there was great rejoicing over hisvictorious return. The King's first act on reaching home was to thankHeaven for the victory he had gained over the enemies who had risenagainst him. He then entered his palace, and the three Princessesstepped forward to meet him. His joy was great when he saw that theywere all well, for the youngest did her best not to appear sad.In spite of this, however, it was not long before the King noticed thathis third daughter was getting very thin and sad looking. And all of asudden he felt as if a hot iron were entering his soul, for it flashedthrough his mind that she had disobeyed his word. He felt sure hewas right. but to be quite certain he called his daughters to him,questioned them, and ordered them to speak the truth. They confessedeverything, but took good care not to say which had led the other twointo temptation.The King was so distressed when he heard it that he was almost overcomeby grief. But he took heart and tried to comfort his daughters, wholooked frightened to death. He saw that what had happened had happened,and that a thousand words would not alter matters by a hair's breadth.Well, these events had almost been forgotten when one fine day a princefrom the East appeared at the Court and asked the King for the hand ofhis eldest daughter. The King gladly gave his consent. A great weddingbanquet was prepared, and after three days of feasting the happy pairwere accompanied to the frontier with much ceremony and rejoicing.After some time the same thing befell the second daughter, who was wooedand won by a prince from the West.Now when the young Princess saw that everything fell out exactly as hadbeen written in the book, she grew very sad. She refused to eat, andwould not put on her fine clothes nor go out walking, and declared thatshe would rather die than become a laughing stock to the world. But theKing would not allow her to do anything so wrong, and he comforted herin all possible ways.So the time passed, till lo and behold! one fine day an enormous pigfrom the North walked into the palace, and going straight up to theKing said, 'Hail! oh King. May your life be as prosperous and bright assunrise on a clear day!''I am glad to see you well, friend,' answered the King, 'but what windhas brought you hither?''I come a wooing,' replied the Pig.Now the King was astonished to hear so fine a speech from a Pig, and atonce it occurred to him that something strange was the matter. He wouldgladly have turned the Pig's thoughts in another direction, as he didnot wish to give him the Princess for a wife. but when he heard that theCourt and the whole street were full of all the pigs in the world he sawthat there was no escape, and that he must give his consent. The Pig wasnot satisfied with mere promises, but insisted that the wedding shouldtake place within a week, and would not go away till the King had sworna royal oath upon it.The King then sent for his daughter, and advised her to submit to fate,as there was nothing else to be done. And he added:'My child, the words and whole behaviour of this Pig are quite unlikethose of other pigs. I do not myself believe that he always was a pig.Depend upon it some magic or witchcraft has been at work. Obey him, anddo everything that he wishes, and I feel sure that Heaven will shortlysend you release.''If you wish me to do this, dear father, I will do it,' replied thegirl.In the meantime the wedding day drew near. After the marriage, the Pigand his bride set out for his home in one of the royal carriages. On theway they passed a great bog, and the Pig ordered the carriage to stop,and got out and rolled about in the mire till he was covered with mudfrom head to foot. then he got back into the carriage and told his wifeto kiss him. What was the poor girl to do? She bethought herself of herfather's words, and, pulling out her pocket handkerchief, she gentlywiped the Pig's snout and kissed it.By the time they reached the Pig's dwelling, which stood in a thickwood, it was quite dark. They sat down quietly for a little, as theywere tired after their drive. then they had supper together, and laydown to rest. During the night the Princess noticed that the Pig hadchanged into a man. She was not a little surprised, but remembering herfather's words, she took courage, determined to wait and see what wouldhappen.And now she noticed that every night the Pig became a man, and everymorning he was changed into a Pig before she awoke. This happenedseveral nights running, and the Princess could not understand it at all.Clearly her husband must be bewitched. In time she grew quite fond ofhim, he was so kind and gentle.One fine day as she was sitting alone she saw an old witch go past. Shefelt quite excited, as it was so long since she had seen a human being,and she called out to the old woman to come and talk to her. Among otherthings the witch told her that she understood all magic arts, and thatshe could foretell the future, and knew the healing powers of herbs andplants.'I shall be grateful to you all my life, old dame,' said the Princess,'if you will tell me what is the matter with my husband. Why is he a Pigby day and a human being by night?''I was just going to tell you that one thing, my dear, to show you whata good fortune teller I am. If you like, I will give you a herb to breakthe spell.''If you will only give it to me,' said the Princess, 'I will give youanything you choose to ask for, for I cannot bear to see him in thisstate.''Here, then, my dear child,' said the witch, 'take this thread, butdo not let him know about it, for if he did it would lose its healingpower. At night, when he is asleep, you must get up very quietly, andfasten the thread round his left foot as firmly as possible. and youwill see in the morning he will not have changed back into a Pig, butwill still be a man. I do not want any reward. I shall be sufficientlyrepaid by knowing that you are happy. It almost breaks my heart to thinkof all you have suffered, and I only wish I had known it sooner, as Ishould have come to your rescue at once.'When the old witch had gone away the Princess hid the thread verycarefully, and at night she got up quietly, and with a beating heart shebound the thread round her husband's foot. Just as she was pulling theknot tight there was a crack, and the thread broke, for it was rotten.Her husband awoke with a start, and said to her, 'Unhappy woman, whathave you done? Three days more and this unholy spell would have fallenfrom me, and now, who knows how long I may have to go about in thisdisgusting shape? I must leave you at once, and we shall not meet againuntil you have worn out three pairs of iron shoes and blunted a steelstaff in your search for me.' So saying he disappeared.Now, when the Princess was left alone she began to weep and moan in away that was pitiful to hear. but when she saw that her tears and groansdid her no good, she got up, determined to go wherever fate should leadher.On reaching a town, the first thing she did was to order three pairs ofiron sandals and a steel staff, and having made these preparationsfor her journey, she set out in search of her husband. On and on shewandered over nine seas and across nine continents. through forests withtrees whose stems were as thick as beer barrels. stumbling and knockingherself against the fallen branches, then picking herself up and goingon. the boughs of the trees hit her face, and the shrubs tore her hands,but on she went, and never looked back. At last, wearied with her longjourney and worn out and overcome with sorrow, but still with hope ather heart, she reached a house.Now who do you think lived there? The Moon.The Princess knocked at the door, and begged to be let in that she mightrest a little. The mother of the Moon, when she saw her sad plight, felta great pity for her, and took her in and nursed and tended her. Andwhile she was here the Princess had a little baby.One day the mother of the Moon asked her:'How was it possible for you, a mortal, to get hither to the house ofthe Moon?'Then the poor Princess told her all that happened to her, and added 'Ishall always be thankful to Heaven for leading me hither, and gratefulto you that you took pity on me and on my baby, and did not leave us todie. Now I beg one last favour of you. can your daughter, the Moon, tellme where my husband is?''She cannot tell you that, my child,' replied the goddess, 'but, if youwill travel towards the East until you reach the dwelling of the Sun, hemay be able to tell you something.'Then she gave the Princess a roast chicken to eat, and warned her tobe very careful not to lose any of the bones, because they might be ofgreat use to her.When the Princess had thanked her once more for her hospitality and forher good advice, and had thrown away one pair of shoes that were wornout, and had put on a second pair, she tied up the chicken bones in abundle, and taking her baby in her arms and her staff in her hand, sheset out once more on her wanderings.On and on and on she went across bare sandy deserts, where the roadswere so heavy that for every two steps that she took forwards she fellback one. but she struggled on till she had passed these dreary plains.next she crossed high rocky mountains, jumping from crag to crag andfrom peak to peak. Sometimes she would rest for a little on a mountain,and then start afresh always farther and farther on. She had to crossswamps and to scale mountain peaks covered with flints, so that her feetand knees and elbows were all torn and bleeding, and sometimes she cameto a precipice across which she could not jump, and she had to crawlround on hands and knees, helping herself along with her staff. Atlength, wearied to death, she reached the palace in which the Sun lived.She knocked and begged for admission. The mother of the Sun opened thedoor, and was astonished at beholding a mortal from the distant earthlyshores, and wept with pity when she heard of all she had suffered. Then,having promised to ask her son about the Princess's husband, she hid herin the cellar, so that the Sun might notice nothing on his return home,for he was always in a bad temper when he came in at night. The next daythe Princess feared that things would not go well with her, for the Sunhad noticed that some one from the other world had been in the palace.But his mother had soothed him with soft words, assuring him that thiswas not so. So the Princess took heart when she saw how kindly she wastreated, and asked:'But how in the world is it possible for the Sun to be angry? He is sobeautiful and so good to mortals.''This is how it happens,' replied the Sun's mother. 'In the morningwhen he stands at the gates of paradise he is happy, and smiles on thewhole world, but during the day he gets cross, because he sees all theevil deeds of men, and that is why his heat becomes so scorching. butin the evening he is both sad and angry, for he stands at the gates ofdeath. that is his usual course. From there he comes back here.'She then told the Princess that she had asked about her hus band, butthat her son had replied that he knew nothing about him, and that heronly hope was to go and inquire of the Wind.Before the Princess left the mother of the Sun gave her a roast chickento eat, and advised her to take great care of the bones, which she did,wrapping them up in a bundle. She then threw away her second pair ofshoes, which were quite worn out, and with her child on her arm and herstaff in her hand, she set forth on her way to the Wind.In these wanderings she met with even greater difficulties than before,for she came upon one mountain of flints after another, out of whichtongues of fire would flame up. she passed through woods which hadnever been trodden by human foot, and had to cross fields of ice andavalanches of snow. The poor woman nearly died of these hardships, butshe kept a brave heart, and at length she reached an enormous cavein the side of a mountain. This was where the Wind lived. There was alittle door in the railing in front of the cave, and here the Princessknocked and begged for admission. The mother of the Wind had pity on herand took her in, that she might rest a little. Here too she was hiddenaway, so that the Wind might not notice her.The next morning the mother of the Wind told her that her husband wasliving in a thick wood, so thick that no axe had been able to cut a waythrough it. here he had built himself a sort of house by placing trunksof trees together and fastening them with withes and here he livedalone, shunning human kind.After the mother of the Wind had given the Princess a chicken to eat,and had warned her to take care of the bones, she advised her to go bythe Milky Way, which at night lies across the sky, and to wander on tillshe reached her goal.Having thanked the old woman with tears in her eyes for her hospitality,and for the good news she had given her, the Princess set out on herjourney and rested neither night nor day, so great was her longing tosee her husband again. On and on she walked until her last pair of shoesfell in pieces. So she threw them away and went on with bare feet, notheeding the bogs nor the thorns that wounded her, nor the stones thatbruised her. At last she reached a beautiful green meadow on the edge ofa wood. Her heart was cheered by the sight of the flowers and the softcool grass, and she sat down and rested for a little. But hearingthe birds chirping to their mates among the trees made her think withlonging of her husband, and she wept bitterly, and taking her child inher arms, and her bundle of chicken bones on her shoulder, she enteredthe wood.For three days and three nights she struggled through it, but could findnothing. She was quite worn out with weariness and hunger, and evenher staff was no further help to her, for in her many wanderings it hadbecome quite blunted. She almost gave up in despair, but made one lastgreat effort, and suddenly in a thicket she came upon the sort of housethat the mother of the Wind had described. It had no windows, and thedoor was up in the roof. Round the house she went, in search of steps,but could find none. What was she to do? How was she to get in? Shethought and thought, and tried in vain to climb up to the door. Thensuddenly she be thought her of the chicken bones that she had draggedall that weary way, and she said to herself: 'They would not all havetold me to take such good care of these bones if they had not had somegood reason for doing so. Perhaps now, in my hour of need, they may beof use to me.'So she took the bones out of her bundle, and having thought for amoment, she placed the two ends together. To her surprise they stucktight. then she added the other bones, till she had two long poles theheight of the house. these she placed against the wall, at a distance ofa yard from one another. Across them she placed the other bones, pieceby piece, like the steps of a ladder. As soon as one step was finishedshe stood upon it and made the next one, and then the next, till shewas close to the door. But just as she got near the top she noticed thatthere were no bones left for the last rung of the ladder. What was sheto do? Without that last step the whole ladder was useless. She musthave lost one of the bones. Then suddenly an idea came to her. Takinga knife she chopped off her little finger, and placing it on the laststep, it stuck as the bones had done. The ladder was complete, and withher child on her arm she entered the door of the house. Here she foundeverything in perfect order. Having taken some food, she laid the childdown to sleep in a trough that was on the floor, and sat down herself torest.When her husband, the Pig, came back to his house, he was startled bywhat he saw. At first he could not believe his eyes, and stared at theladder of bones, and at the little finger on the top of it. He felt thatsome fresh magic must be at work, and in his terror he almost turnedaway from the house. but then a better idea came to him, and he changedhimself into a dove, so that no witchcraft could have power over him,and flew into the room without touching the ladder. Here he found awoman rocking a child. At the sight of her, looking so changed by allthat she had suffered for his sake, his heart was moved by such love andlonging and by so great a pity that he suddenly became a man.The Princess stood up when she saw him, and her heart beat with fear,for she did not know him. But when he had told her who he was, in hergreat joy she forgot all her sufferings, and they seemed as nothing toher. He was a very handsome man, as straight as a fir tree. They satdown together and she told him all her adventures, and he wept with pityat the tale. And then he told her his own history.'I am a King's son. Once when my father was fighting against somedragons, who were the scourge of our country, I slew the youngestdragon. His mother, who was a witch, cast a spell over me and changed meinto a Pig. It was she who in the disguise of an old woman gave you thethread to bind round my foot. So that instead of the three days thathad to run before the spell was broken, I was forced to remain a Pigfor three more years. Now that we have suffered for each other, and havefound each other again, let us forget the past.'And in their joy they kissed one another.Next morning they set out early to return to his father's kingdom. Greatwas the rejoicing of all the people when they saw him and his wife. hisfather and his mother embraced them both, and there was feasting in thepalace for three days and three nights.Then they set out to see her father. The old King nearly went out of hismind with joy at beholding his daughter again. When she had told him allher adventures, he said to her:'Did not I tell you that I was quite sure that that creature who wooedand won you as his wife had not been born a Pig? You see, my child, howwise you were in doing what I told you.'And as the King was old and had no heirs, he put them on the thronein his place. And they ruled as only kings rule who have sufferedmany things. And if they are not dead they are still living and rulinghappily.(8)(8) Rumanische Marchen ubersetzt von Nite Kremnitz.