Once upon a time, very long ago, there was a little Prince Ivan whowas dumb. Never a word had he spoken from the day that he wasborn not so much as a "Yes" or a "No," or a "Please" or a "Thankyou." A great sorrow he was to his father because he could not speak.Indeed, neither his father nor his mother could bear the sight of him,for they thought, "A poor sort of Tzar will a dumb boy make!" Theyeven prayed, and said, "If only we could have another child, whateverit is like, it could be no worse than this tongue tied brat who cannotsay a word." And for that wish they were punished, as you shall hear.And they took no sort of care of the little Prince Ivan, and he spentall his time in the stables, listening to the tales of an old groom.He was a wise man was the old groom, and he knew the past and thefuture, and what was happening under the earth. Maybe he had learnthis wisdom from the horses. Anyway, he knew more than other folk, andthere came a day when he said to Prince Ivan, "Little Prince," says he, "to day you have a sister, and a bad one atthat. She has come because of your father's prayers and your mother'swishes. A witch she is, and she will grow like a seed of corn. In sixweeks she'll be a grown witch, and with her iron teeth she will eat upyour father, and eat up your mother, and eat up you too, if she getsthe chance. There's no saving the old people. but if you are quick,and do what I tell you, you may escape, and keep your soul in yourbody. And I love you, my little dumb Prince, and do not wish to thinkof your little body between her iron teeth. You must go to your fatherand ask him for the best horse he has, and then gallop like the wind,and away to the end of the world."The little Prince ran off and found his father. There was his father,and there was his mother, and a little baby girl was in his mother'sarms, screaming like a little fury."Well, she's not dumb," said his father, as if he were well pleased."Father," says the little Prince, "may I have the fastest horse in thestable?" And those were the first words that ever left his mouth."What!" says his father, "have you got a voice at last? Yes, takewhatever horse you want. And see, you have a little sister. a finelittle girl she is too. She has teeth already. It's a pity they areblack, but time will put that right, and it's better to have blackteeth than to be born dumb."Little Prince Ivan shook in his shoes when he heard of the black teethof his little sister, for he knew that they were iron. He thanked hisfather and ran off to the stable. The old groom saddled the finesthorse there was. Such a horse you never saw. Black it was, and itssaddle and bridle were trimmed with shining silver. And little PrinceIvan climbed up and sat on the great black horse, and waved his handto the old groom, and galloped away, on and on over the wide world."It's a big place, this world," thought the little Prince. "I wonderwhen I shall come to the end of it." You see, he had never beenoutside the palace grounds. And he had only ridden a little Finnishpony. And now he sat high up, perched on the back of the great blackhorse, who galloped with hoofs that thundered beneath him, and leaptover rivers and streams and hillocks, and anything else that came inhis way.On and on galloped the little Prince on the great black horse. Therewere no houses anywhere to be seen. It was a long time since they hadpassed any people, and little Prince Ivan began to feel very lonely,and to wonder if indeed he had come to the end of the world, and couldbring his journey to an end.Suddenly, on a wide, sandy plain, he saw two old, old women sitting inthe road.They were bent double over their work, sewing and sewing, and now oneand now the other broke a needle, and took a new one out of a boxbetween them, and threaded the needle with thread from another box,and went on sewing and sewing. Their old noses nearly touched theirknees as they bent over their work.Little Prince Ivan pulled up the great black horse in a cloud of dust,and spoke to the old women."Grandmothers," said he, "is this the end of the world? Let me stayhere and live with you, and be safe from my baby sister, who is awitch and has iron teeth. Please let me stay with you, and I'll bevery little trouble, and thread your needles for you when you breakthem.""Prince Ivan, my dear," said one of the old women, "this is not theend of the world, and little good would it be to you to stay with us.For as soon as we have broken all our needles and used up all ourthread we shall die, and then where would you be? Your sister with theiron teeth would have you in a minute."The little Prince cried bitterly, for he was very little and allalone. He rode on further over the wide world, the black horsegalloping and galloping, and throwing the dust from his thunderinghoofs.He came into a forest of great oaks, the biggest oak trees in thewhole world. And in that forest was a dreadful noise the crashing oftrees falling, the breaking of branches, and the whistling of thingshurled through the air. The Prince rode on, and there before him wasthe huge giant, Tree rooter, hauling the great oaks out of the groundand flinging them aside like weeds."I should be safe with him," thought little Prince Ivan, "and this,surely, must be the end of the world."He rode close up under the giant, and stopped the black horse, andshouted up into the air."Please, great giant," says he, "is this the end of the world? And mayI live with you and be safe from my sister, who is a witch, and growslike a seed of corn, and has iron teeth?""Prince Ivan, my dear," says Tree rooter, "this is not the end of theworld, and little good would it be to you to stay with me. For as soonas I have rooted up all these trees I shall die, and then where wouldyou be? Your sister would have you in a minute. And already there arenot many big trees left."And the giant set to work again, pulling up the great trees andthrowing them aside. The sky was full of flying trees.Little Prince Ivan cried bitterly, for he was very little and was allalone. He rode on further over the wide world, the black horsegalloping and galloping under the tall trees, and throwing clods ofearth from his thundering hoofs.He came among the mountains. And there was a roaring and a crashing inthe mountains as if the earth was falling to pieces. One after anotherwhole mountains were lifted up into the sky and flung down to earth,so that they broke and scattered into dust. And the big black horsegalloped through the mountains, and little Prince Ivan sat bravely onhis back. And there, close before him, was the huge giantMountain tosser, picking up the mountains like pebbles and hurlingthem to little pieces and dust upon the ground."This must be the end of the world," thought the little Prince. "andat any rate I should be safe with him.""Please, great giant," says he, "is this the end of the world? And mayI live with you and be safe from my sister, who is a witch, and hasiron teeth, and grows like a seed of corn?""Prince Ivan, my dear," says Mountain tosser, resting for a moment anddusting the rocks off his great hands, "this is not the end of theworld, and little good would it be to you to stay with me. For as soonas I have picked up all these mountains and thrown them down again Ishall die, and then where would you be? Your sister would have you ina minute. And there are not very many mountains left."And the giant set to work again, lifting up the great mountains andhurling them away. The sky was full of flying mountains.Little Prince Ivan wept bitterly, for he was very little and was allalone. He rode on further over the wide world, the black horsegalloping and galloping along the mountain paths, and throwing thestones from his thundering hoofs.At last he came to the end of the world, and there, hanging in the skyabove him, was the castle of the little sister of the Sun. Beautifulit was, made of cloud, and hanging in the sky, as if it were built ofred roses."I should be safe up there," thought little Prince Ivan, and just thenthe Sun's little sister opened the window and beckoned to him.Prince Ivan patted the big black horse and whispered to it, and itleapt up high into the air and through the window, into the verycourtyard of the castle."Stay here and play with me," said the little sister of the Sun. andPrince Ivan tumbled off the big black horse into her arms, and laughedbecause he was so happy.Merry and pretty was the Sun's little sister, and she was very kind tolittle Prince Ivan. They played games together, and when she was tiredshe let him do whatever he liked and run about her castle. This wayand that he ran about the battlements of rosy cloud, hanging in thesky over the end of the world.But one day he climbed up and up to the topmost turret of the castle.From there he could see the whole world. And far, far away, beyond themountains, beyond the forests, beyond the wide plains, he saw hisfather's palace where he had been born. The roof of the palace wasgone, and the walls were broken and crumbling. And little Prince Ivancame slowly down from the turret, and his eyes were red with weeping."My dear," says the Sun's little sister, "why are your eyes so red?""It is the wind up there," says little Prince Ivan.And the Sun's little sister put her head out of the window of thecastle of cloud and whispered to the winds not to blow so hard.But next day little Prince Ivan went up again to that topmost turret,and looked far away over the wide world to the ruined palace. "She haseaten them all with her iron teeth," he said to himself. And his eyeswere red when he came down."My dear," says the Sun's little sister, "your eyes are red again.""It is the wind," says little Prince Ivan.And the Sun's little sister put her head out of the window and scoldedthe wind.But the third day again little Prince Ivan climbed up the stairs ofcloud to that topmost turret, and looked far away to the broken palacewhere his father and mother had lived. And he came down from theturret with the tears running down his face."Why, you are crying, my dear!" says the Sun's little sister. "Tell mewhat it is all about."So little Prince Ivan told the little sister of the Sun how his sisterwas a witch, and how he wept to think of his father and mother, andhow he had seen the ruins of his father's palace far away, and how hecould not stay with hen happily until he knew how it was with hisparents."Perhaps it is not yet too late to save them from her iron teeth,though the old groom said that she would certainly eat them, and thatit was the will of God. But let me ride back on my big black horse.""Do not leave me, my dear," says the Sun's little sister. "I am lonelyhere by myself.""I will ride back on my big black horse, and then I will come to youagain.""What must be, must," says the Sun's little sister. "though she ismore likely to eat you than you are to save them. You shall go. Butyou must take with you a magic comb, a magic brush, and two apples ofyouth. These apples would make young once more the oldest things onearth."Then she kissed little Prince Ivan, and he climbed up on his bigblack horse, and leapt out of the window of the castle down on the endof the world, and galloped off on his way back over the wide world.He came to Mountain tosser, the giant. There was only one mountainleft, and the giant was just picking it up. Sadly he was picking itup, for he knew that when he had thrown it away his work would be doneand he would have to die."Well, little Prince Ivan," says Mountain tosser, "this is the end."and he heaves up the mountain. But before he could toss it away thelittle Prince threw his magic brush on the plain, and the brushswelled and burst, and there were range upon range of high mountains,touching the sky itself."Why," says Mountain tosser, "I have enough mountains now to last mefor another thousand years. Thank you kindly, little Prince."And he set to work again, heaving up mountains and tossing them down,while little Prince Ivan galloped on across the wide world.He came to Tree rooter, the giant. There were only two of the greatoaks left, and the giant had one in each hand."Ah me, little Prince Ivan," says Tree rooter, "my life is come toits end. for I have only to pluck up these two trees and throw themdown, and then I shall die.""Pluck them up," says little Prince Ivan. "Here are plenty more foryou." And he threw down his comb. There was a noise of spreadingbranches, of swishing leaves, of opening buds, all together, and therebefore them was a forest of great oaks stretching farther than thegiant could see, tall though he was."Why," says Tree rooter, "here are enough trees to last me for anotherthousand years. Thank you kindly, little Prince."And he set to work again, pulling up the big trees, laughing joyfullyand hurling them over his head, while little Prince Ivan galloped onacross the wide world.He came to the two old women. They were crying their eyes out."There is only one needle left!" says the first."There is only one bit of thread in the box!" sobs the second."And then we shall die!" they say both together, mumbling with theirold mouths."Before you use the needle and thread, just eat these apples," sayslittle Prince Ivan, and he gives them the two apples of youth.The two old women took the apples in their old shaking fingers and atethem, bent double, mumbling with their old lips. They had hardlyfinished their last mouthfuls when they sat up straight, smiled withsweet red lips, and looked at the little Prince with shining eyes.They had become young girls again, and their gray hair was black asthe raven."Thank you kindly, little Prince," say the two young girls. "You musttake with you the handkerchief we have been sewing all these years.Throw it to the ground, and it will turn into a lake of water. Perhapssome day it will be useful to you.""Thank you," says the little Prince, and off he gallops, on and onover the wide world.He came at last to his father's palace. The roof was gone, and therewere holes in the walls. He left his horse at the edge of the garden,and crept up to the ruined palace and peeped through a hole. Inside,in the great hall, was sitting a huge baby girl, filling the wholehall. There was no room for her to move. She had knocked off the roofwith a shake of her head. And she sat there in the ruined hall,sucking her thumb.And while Prince Ivan was watching through the hole he heard hermutter to herself, "_Eaten the father, eaten the mother,And now to eat the little brother_"And she began shrinking, getting smaller and smaller every minute.Little Prince Ivan had only just time to get away from the hole in thewall when a pretty little baby girl came running out of the ruinedpalace."You must be my little brother Ivan," she called out to him, and cameup to him smiling. But as she smiled the little Prince saw that herteeth were black. and as she shut her mouth he heard them clinktogether like pokers."Come in," says she, and she took little Prince Ivan with her to aroom in the palace, all broken down and cobwebbed. There was adulcimer lying in the dust on the floor."Well, little brother," says the witch baby, "you play on the dulcimerand amuse yourself while I get supper ready. But don't stop playing,or I shall feel lonely." And she ran off and left him.Little Prince Ivan sat down and played tunes on the dulcimer sadenough tunes. You would not play dance music if you thought you weregoing to be eaten by a witch.But while he was playing a little gray mouse came out of a crack inthe floor. Some people think that this was the wise old groom, who hadturned into a little gray mouse to save Ivan from the witch baby."Ivan, Ivan," says the little gray mouse, "run while you may. Yourfather and mother were eaten long ago, and well they deserved it. Butbe quick, or you will be eaten too. Your pretty little sister isputting an edge on her teeth!"Little Prince Ivan thanked the mouse, and ran out from the ruinedpalace, and climbed up on the back of his big black horse, with itssaddle and bridle trimmed with silver. Away he galloped over the wideworld. The witch baby stopped her work and listened. She heard themusic of the dulcimer, so she made sure he was still there. She wenton sharpening her teeth with a file, and growing bigger and biggerevery minute. And all the time the music of the dulcimer sounded amongthe ruins.As soon as her teeth were quite sharp she rushed off to eat littlePrince Ivan. She tore aside the walls of the room. There was nobodythere only a little gray mouse running and jumping this way and thaton the strings of the dulcimer.When it saw the witch baby the little mouse ran across the floor andinto the crack and away, so that she never caught it. How the witchbaby gnashed her teeth! Poker and tongs, poker and tongs what a noisethey made! She swelled up, bigger and bigger, till she was a baby ashigh as the palace. And then she jumped up so that the palace fell topieces about her. Then off she ran after little Prince Ivan.Little Prince Ivan, on the big black horse, heard a noise behind him.He looked back, and there was the huge witch, towering over the trees.She was dressed like a little baby, and her eyes flashed and her teethclanged as she shut her mouth. She was running with long strides,faster even than the black horse could gallop and he was the besthorse in all the world.Little Prince Ivan threw down the handkerchief that had been sewn bythe two old women who had eaten the apples of youth. It turned into adeep, broad lake, so that the witch baby had to swim and swimming isslower than running. It took her a long time to get across, and allthat time Prince Ivan was galloping on, never stopping for a moment.The witch baby crossed the lake and came thundering after him. Closebehind she was, and would have caught him. but the giant Tree rootersaw the little Prince galloping on the big black horse, and the witchbaby tearing after him. He pulled up the great oaks in armfuls, andthrew them down just in front of the witch baby. He made a huge pileof the big trees, and the witch baby had to stop and gnaw her waythrough them with her iron teeth.It took her a long time to gnaw through the trees, and the black horsegalloped and galloped ahead. But presently Prince Ivan heard a noisebehind him. He looked back, and there was the witch baby, thirty feethigh, racing after him, clanging with her teeth. Close behind shewas, and the little Prince sat firm on the big black horse, andgalloped and galloped. But she would have caught him if the giantMountain tosser had not seen the little Prince on the big black horse,and the great witch baby running after him. The giant tore up thebiggest mountain in the world and flung it down in front of her, andanother on the top of that. She had to bite her way through them,while the little Prince galloped and galloped.At last little Prince Ivan saw the cloud castle of the little sisterof the Sun, hanging over the end of the world and gleaming in the skyas if it were made of roses. He shouted with hope, and the black horseshook his head proudly and galloped on. The witch baby thundered afterhim. Nearer she came and nearer."Ah, little one," screams the witch baby, "you shan't get away thistime!"The Sun's little sister was looking from a window of the castle in thesky, and she saw the witch baby stretching out to grab little PrinceIvan. She flung the window open, and just in time the big black horseleapt up, and through the window and into the courtyard, with littlePrince Ivan safe on its back.How the witch baby gnashed her iron teeth!"Give him up!" she screams."I will not," says the Sun's little sister."See you here," says the witch baby, and she makes herself smaller andsmaller and smaller, till she was just like a real little girl. "Letus be weighed in the great scales, and if I am heavier than PrinceIvan, I can take him. and if he is heavier than I am, I'll say no moreabout it."The Sun's little sister laughed at the witch baby and teased her, andshe hung the great scales out of the cloud castle so that they swungabove the end of the world.Little Prince Ivan got into one scale, and down it went."Now," says the witch baby, "we shall see."And she made herself bigger and bigger and bigger, till she was as bigas she had been when she sat and sucked her thumb in the hall of theruined palace. "I am the heavier," she shouted, and gnashed her ironteeth. Then she jumped into the other scale.She was so heavy that the scale with the little Prince in it shot upinto the air. It shot up so fast that little Prince Ivan flew up intothe sky, up and up and up, and came down on the topmost turret of thecloud castle of the little sister of the Sun.The Sun's little sister laughed, and closed the window, and went up tothe turret to meet the little Prince. But the witch baby turned backthe way she had come, and went off, gnashing her iron teeth untilthey broke. And ever since then little Prince Ivan and the littlesister of the Sun play together in the castle of cloud that hangs overthe end of the world. They borrow the stars to play at ball, and putthem back at night whenever they remember."So when there are no stars?" asked Maroosia."It means that Prince Ivan and the Sun's little sister have gone tosleep over their games and forgotten to put their toys away."