Ages ago, in olden times, there lived a powerful count. All the landsfar and wide belonged to him, and he had everything that his heartdesired. He shared his wealth and his happiness with a good wife, who wasas beautiful as the day and as dear as an angel. They had lived togetherhappily together for several months, and the days seemed to them to be asshort as minutes. One day the count was out hunting and went deeper anddeeper into the forest. In the heat of the hunt he went further than everbefore, and he became separated a good distance from the rest of hisparty. As he stood there alone in the forest, a dwarf suddenly appearedbefore him. The little forest dweller was only three feet tall, and hisfull beard reached his knees. Angrily he rolled his fiery red eyes andsaid, "What are you doing here? This is my realm, and you must pay apenalty to me. If you do not give me your wife, you shall not leave thisforest alive."The count was considerably frightened by the dwarf's appearance and hisangry words, for he had often heard all kinds of spooky stories aboutstrength and the wickedness of the little man of the forest. His old nursehad told him these stories when he was but a child. What was he to do?This was a critical situation. The frightened count did not know how toescape other than to try to beg and talk his way out."Forgive me," said the count, "that I have trespassed upon your realm.I did not know that it was yours, and I will certainly never do it again."But the wild dwarf would not be pacified, and he said, "What I havesaid to you must happen. Either you or she.""Demand what else you will, and I shall give it to you," said thecount, "but do not insist upon this."Then the little man appeared to reconsider, and he said, "If must beso, then I will place your fate in your wife's hands. I will give you bothone month's time. If she is able, in three attempts, to guess my name thenshe shall be yours and free   otherwise she shall belong to me."The count was somewhat comforted with this, but still his heart wasburdened. He made his way toward home, accompanied by the little man ofthe forest. Both were serious, and neither spoke a word. After they hadgone some distance they came to an ancient gray bearded fir tree. Thedwarf stopped here and said, "This is the boundary of my realm. I willawait your wife here at this fir tree, which is nine times older than theother trees. Three times she may have three guesses! But if you do notkeep your word it will go badly for both of you."The count now walked slowly homeward, for his heart was heavy, and thecloser he came to his castle, the gloomier and sadder he became. As heapproached the gate, the countess, who had seen him from her window, cameout to meet him. She was filled with joy and happiness, for her husbandwas home again. But she soon noticed that he was not happy, as he usuallywas, but instead looked like seven days of rainy weather. This made hersad and concerned, and she asked the count what was wrong with him.As soon as they entered the castle and were in the sitting room, thetired and sad count told her how he had met the dwarf and how he hadwanted take the countess, and what conditions he had at last agreed to.When the countess heard this, she became as pale as a corpse, and herbeautiful, fine cheeks were wet with tears. Happiness and joy had nowdisappeared from the castle, and everyone there became silent and sad. Thecountess most often sat in an alcove thinking and thinking how short herhappiness had been, or she went to the castle chapel where she prayed andcried.The count no longer went out hunting nor to the jousting matches butsat instead on his old chair, richly decorated with carvings, on which hisancestors had also sat. Supporting his head with his right hand, hecontemplated, but he himself did not know about what.Thus passed day after day and week after week, until finally there werethree days left in the month. The count and countess went out into theforest, then further and further until they could see the old gray beardedfir tree in the distance. The count stayed behind, and the countessproceeded alone. Otherwise it was beautiful in the forest. The birds weresinging. the squirrels were jumping about or sitting there splitting pinecones. and the wild roses were blossoming so beautifully white and red.But the countess had a heavy heart as never before, and she sadly walkedon until she came to the fir tree.The dwarf, beautifully dressed in green and red, was waiting for her. Amischievous pleasure overcame him when he saw the countess, for shepleased him greatly."Now guess my name, Lady Countess!" he said quickly, as though hehardly expected her to do so.Then the countess guessed, "Fir, Spruce, Pine," because she thoughtthat for living in the forest he would certainly have the name of a tree.The dwarf had hardly heard this when he broke out laughing andrejoicing until the entire forest resounded. "You have not guessed it!" hesaid gleefully. "See if you can do any better tomorrow than you did today.Otherwise you will become my wife!"The countess, sadder still, walked away from the fir tree with downcasteyes. The dwarf stood there and smiled at her, taking pleasure in hergrief. She soon found her husband, and told him how she had guessed sobadly. They returned to their castle even sadder than they had left.The rest of the day passed too fast, although it was a sad one. Eveningwas soon there, and night followed quickly. It was a sad and hopelessnight, and neither sleep nor dreams entered the count's room.When the first larks began to sing the next morning, the count andcountess were already up and concerned about their plight. They went tothe castle chapel to pray, and afterward went out into the dark greenforest, then further and deeper until they saw the old gray bearded firtree in the distance. The count stayed behind and the countess proceededalone. Otherwise it was beautiful out there in the forest. The birds weresinging. the flowers were laughing and giving off their sweet scent. thesquirrels were standing up like little men. But the countess had a heavyheart as never before, and with tears in her eyes she walked on until shecame to the fir tree. She had scarcely arrived there when the little manof the forest walked up, dressed beautifully in blue and red. Amischievous pleasure overcame him when he saw the countess, for shepleased him greatly."Now guess my name, Lady Countess!" he said quickly, and smiled.Then the countess guessed, "Oat, Buckwheat, Maize," for she thoughtthat he might have the name of a grain.The little elf had hardly heard this when he broke out laughing andrejoicing until the entire forest resounded. "You have not guessed it!" hesaid gleefully. "You must do better tomorrow, or you will belong to me,and tomorrow will be my wedding."The countess, sadder than ever before, walked away from the fir treewith wet eyes. The dwarf stood there impishly smiling at her. She soonfound her husband, and told him how badly she had done. They returned totheir castle even more gloomily than they had left.The rest of the day passed under a shadow of sorrow. Evening was therebefore they realized it, and the dark night followed quickly. It was againa sad night, in which neither the count nor the countess closed theireyes.As morning dawned, the count and countess were already up. They went tothe castle chapel and prayed fervently. Then they went out into thebeautiful green forest. It was still early, early in the morning, and manyof the birds were still lying asleep in their nests. Only the brooks wererustling and murmuring, and the morning breezes were whispering throughthe tree branches. Otherwise it was quiet   as quiet as in a church.The count and countess walked until they saw the old gray bearded firtree in the distance. There the count kissed his beautiful countess, and atear dropped onto his beard, for he did not know if he would ever see heragain. The countess, however was more composed today, and her heart wasnot beating as quickly as it had done on the earlier occasions. She saidgood bye to her husband and walked toward the fir tree. All soul alone,she stood there next to the old tree, but the dwarf was nowhere to beseen. On either side there were wild rosebushes, and they made a beautifulfence.She walked along the path and soon came to a beautiful little valley.The most beautiful flowers were there, with vineyards and fig treesgrowing on the hillsides. In the middle of the field stood a neat littlecottage. Its little windows glistened happily in the morning sunshine.Blue smoke curled upward from the little chimney, and a song sounded fromwithin.The countess forgot her pain and grief when she saw the little valleyand the cottage. She crept up and, on tip toes, looked inside the windowto see if it was as beautiful inside as it was outside. She saw a lovelylittle kitchen, with things cooking and frying in pots and pans. Thelittle man of the forest was standing at the hearth, first tending to onething and then to another, at the same time singing with a smiling mouth:Boil my oats, bubble my cabbage.It is good that Lady Countess does not knowThat Purzinigele is my name.The countess had heard enough. She crept away and hurried back to thefir tree, so that the dwarf would not overtake her. Joyfully standingthere, she could almost not wait for the dwarf to arrive. It was not longbefore the little man arrived. Today he was dressed even more beautifullythan before. His clothing was embroidered with red and gold, and itglistened like a sunrise."Guess now for the last time," said the little elf to the countess, asthough he had wanted to say, "This bird will not escape from my trap."The countess started to say "Pur," while carefully observing herquestioner."Not right! You have two guesses left!" said the little man."Goat," replied the countess.With that the dwarf blushed a little and seemed to pause and think.Then he said, "Guess quickly! You have one more chance.""Purzinigele!" cried out the countess, filled with joy. Upon hearinghis name, the dwarf angrily rolled his fiery red eyes, clenched his fiststightly, then grumbling disappeared into the thicket. The freed countesshurried back to the place where the count was impatiently waiting for her.There was such joy when the two found one another again.To the joy of their people, the count and countess returned to theircastle. They lived there many, many years as the happiest couple thatanyone ever knew.And what became of Purzinigele?He was so angry that he ran away, and was never seen again.