There were once a man and a woman who had long in in vain wished for achild. At length the woman hoped that God was about to grant her desire.These people had a little window at the back of their house from which asplendid garden could be seen, which was full of the most beautifulflowers and herbs. It was, however, surrounded by a high wall, and noone dared to go into it because it belonged to an enchantress, who hadgreat power and was dreaded by all the world. One day the woman wasstanding by this window and looking down into the garden, when she saw abed which was planted with the most beautiful rampion (rapunzel), and itlooked so fresh and green that she longed for it, and had the greatestdesire to eat some. This desire increased every day, and as she knewthat she could not get any of it, she quite pined away, and looked paleand miserable. Then her husband was alarmed, and asked, "What ails you,dear wife?" "Ah," she replied, "if I can't get some of the rampion whichis in the garden behind our house, to eat, I shall die." The man, wholoved her, thought, "Sooner than let your wife die, bring her some ofthe rampion yourself, let it cost you what it will." In the twilight ofevening, he clambered down over the wall into the garden of theenchantress, hastily clutched a handful of rampion, and took it to hiswife. She at once made herself a salad of it, and ate it with muchrelish. She, however, liked it so much, so very much, that the next dayshe longed for it three times as much as before. If he was to have anyrest, her husband must once more descend into the garden. In the gloomof evening, therefore, he let himself down again. but when he hadclambered down the wall he was terribly afraid, for he saw theenchantress standing before him. "How can you dare," said she with angrylook, "to descend into my garden and steal my rampion like a thief? Youshall suffer for it!" "Ah," answered he, "let mercy take the place ofjustice. I only made up my mind to do it out of necessity. My wife sawyour rampion from the window, and felt such a longing for it that shewould have died if she had not got some to eat." Then the enchantressallowed her anger to be softened, and said to him, "If the case be asyou say, I will allow you to take away with you as much rampion as youwill, only I make one condition, you must give me the child which yourwife will bring into the world. it shall be well treated, and I willcare for it like a mother." The man in his terror consented toeverything, and when the little one came to them, the enchantressappeared at once, gave the child the name of Rapunzel, and took it awaywith her.Rapunzel grew into the most beautiful child beneath the sun. When shewas twelve years old, the enchantress shut her into a tower, which layin a forest, and had neither stairs nor door, but quite at the top was alittle window. When the enchantress wanted to go in, she placed herselfbeneath this, and cried,"Rapunzel, Rapunzel,Let down your hair to me."Rapunzel had magnificent long hair, fine as spun gold, and when sheheard the voice of the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses,wound them round one of the hooks of the window above, and then the hairfell twenty yards down, and the enchantress climbed up by it.After a year or two, it came to pass that the King's son rode throughthe forest and went by the tower. Then he heard a song, which was socharming that he stood still and listened. This was Rapunzel, who in hersolitude passed her time in letting her sweet voice resound. The King'sson wanted to climb up to her, and looked for the door of the tower, butnone was to be found. He rode home, but the singing had so deeplytouched his heart, that every day he went out into the forest andlistened to it. Once when he was thus standing behind a tree, he sawthat an enchantress came there, and he heard how she cried,"Rapunzel, Rapunzel,Let down your hair."Then Rapunzel let down the braids of her hair, and the enchantressclimbed up to her. "If that is the ladder by which one mounts, I willfor once try my fortune," said he, and the next day, when it began togrow dark, he went to the tower and cried."Rapunzel, Rapunzel,Let down your hair."Immediately the hair fell down, and the King's son climbed up.At first Rapunzel was terribly frightened when a man such as her eyeshad never yet beheld came to her. but the King's son began to talk toher quite like a friend, and told her that his heart had been so stirredthat it had let him have no rest, and he had been forced to see her.Then Rapunzel lost her fear, and when he asked her if she would take himfor a husband, and she saw that he was young and handsome, she thought,"He will love me more than old Dame Gothel does." and she said yes, andlaid her hand in his. She said, "I will willingly go away with you, butI do not know how to get down. Bring with you a skein of silk every timethat you come, and I will weave a ladder with it, and when that is readyI will descend, and you will take me on your horse." They agreed thatuntil that time he should come to her every evening, for the old womancame by day. The enchantress remarked nothing of this, until onceRapunzel said to her, "Tell me, Dame Gothel, how it happens that you areso much heavier for me to draw up than the young King's son he is withme in a moment." "Ah! you wicked child," cried the enchantress, "what doI hear you say! I thought I had separated you from all the world, andyet you have deceived me!" In her anger she clutched Rapunzel'sbeautiful tresses, wrapped them twice round her left hand, seized a pairof scissors with the right, and snip, snip, they were cut off, and thelovely braids lay on the ground. And she was so pitiless that she tookpoor Rapunzel into a desert, where she had to live in great grief andmisery.On the same day, however, that she cast out Rapunzel, the enchantress inthe evening fastened the braids of hair which she had cut off to thehook of the window, and when the King's son came and cried,"Rapunzel, Rapunzel,Let down your hair,"she let the hair down. The King's son ascended, but he did not find hisdearest Rapunzel above, but the enchantress, who gazed at him withwicked and venomous looks. "Aha!" she cried mockingly. "You would fetchyour dearest, but the beautiful bird sits no longer singing in the nest.the cat has got it, and will scratch out your eyes as well. Rapunzel islost to you. you will never see her more." The King's son was besidehimself with pain, and in his despair he leapt down from the tower. Heescaped with his life, but the thorns into which he fell pierced hiseyes. Then he wandered quite blind about the forest, ate nothing butroots and berries, and did nothing but lament and weep over the loss ofhis dearest wife. Thus he roamed about I in misery for some years, andat length came to the desert where Rapunzel lived in wretchedness. Heheard a voice, and it seemed so familiar to him that he went towards it,and when he approached, Rapunzel knew him and fell on his neck and wept.Two of her tears wetted his eyes, and they grew clear again, and hecould see with them as before. He led her to his kingdom, where he wasjoyfully received, and they lived for a long time afterwards, happy andcontented.