A miner was always making fun of people who claimed that witches ride tothe Brocken on Walpurgis Night. He often said, "If such an old creature ever crosses my path, I will throw her down. What chance would such an old skeleton of a hag made up of nothing but skin and bones have against the likes of me?""Now, now," an old neighbor woman who lived nearby would say. "Itwouldn't be all that easy to throw down such a rider. You should becareful what you say!""Tomfoolery! Tomfoolery!" he said. "I'd make her forget about riding."To that the old woman said nothing.Walpurgis Night arrived. There was shooting everywhere, as though theenemy were attacking. They were shooting off firecrackers, flintlocks,rifles, and pistols. On that evening everyone was firing his shootingiron, and the louder the noise, the better everyone liked it.About nine o'clock the miner learned that something had gone wrong in theshaft, and he was called upon to report for duty. He got as far as BremenHill when he was approached by a swarm of old hags flying through the air.There was such commotion and uproar as though all the devils were on theloose.One of the hags came down, turned the miner over, whether he wanted to ornot, and mounted him. Then away they went through the air, following theothers to the Brocken. He could barely breathe, and the old hag was soheavy that she nearly broke his bones.She finally climbed off him, and he fell to the ground half dead. Theother witches then surrounded him and danced around him, and the devilhimself was there with them. Finally they picked him up and asked him ifhe could remain silent, or if he would like to be boiled in oil. Now noone wants to be boiled in oil, so he said that he would never say anythingabout the witches. Then the devil said to him that he would be a child ofdeath if he ever uttered a single word. And then the witches didunspeakable things up there on the mountain.As midnight approached, they all gathered together, and one of the witchesagain took our miner and mounted him, and they swarmed through the airuntil they reached Bremen Hill near Claustal. They released him at thesame spot where the witch had captured him. He lay there for a few hoursrecovering his strength. then he slowly crept homeward. When he arrivedhome, his wife was already up and was preparing to go into the woods for aload of wood."Wife," he said, "stay here. I have had a bad night. Go into the kitchenand put a little wood into the stove. I have been sweating, and I need tochange my clothes." She did what he said. He then told the stove whathad happened. His wife overheard it all, but said nothing.A half hour later the old neighbor woman came by and said that it was agood thing he had spoken to the stove and not to a person, or he would seehow things would go with him.And thus they knew that she was a witch. The wife reported her, and thewicked witch was burned to death, just as she deserved.