There was once a poor Miller who had a beautiful daughter, and one day,having to go to speak with the King, he said, in order to make himselfappear of consequence, that he had a daughter who could spin straw intogold. The King was very fond of gold, and thought to himself, "That isan art which would please me very well". and so he said to the Miller,"If your daughter is so very clever, bring her to the castle in themorning, and I will put her to the proof."As soon as she arrived the King led her into a chamber which was full ofstraw. and, giving her a wheel and a reel, he said, "Now set yourself towork, and if you have not spun this straw into gold by an early hourto morrow, you must die." With these words he shut the room door, andleft the maiden alone.There she sat for a long time, thinking how to save her life. for sheunderstood nothing of the art whereby straw might be spun into gold. andher perplexity increased more and more, till at last she began to weep.All at once the door opened, and in stepped a little Man, who said,"Good evening, fair maiden. why do you weep so sore?" "Ah," she replied,"I must spin this straw into gold, and I am sure I do not know how."The little Man asked, "What will you give me if I spin it for you?""My necklace," said the maiden.The Dwarf took it, placed himself in front of the wheel, and whirr,whirr, whirr, three times round, and the bobbin was full. Then he set upanother, and whir, whir, whir, thrice round again, and a second bobbinwas full. and so he went all night long, until all the straw was spun,and the bobbins were full of gold. At sunrise the King came, very muchastonished to see the gold. the sight of which gladdened him, but didnot make his heart less covetous. He caused the maiden to be led intoanother room, still larger, full of straw. and then he bade her spin itinto gold during the night if she valued her life. The maiden was againquite at a loss what to do. but while she cried the door openedsuddenly, as before, and the Dwarf appeared and asked her what she wouldgive him in return for his assistance. "The ring off my finger," shereplied. The little Man took the ring and began to spin at once, and bymorning all the straw was changed to glistening gold. The King wasrejoiced above measure at the sight of this, but still he was notsatisfied, but, leading the maiden into another still larger room, fullof straw as the others, he said, "This you must spin during the night.but if you accomplish it you shall be my bride." "For," thought he tohimself, "a richer wife thou canst not have in all the world."When the maiden was left alone, the Dwarf again appeared and asked, forthe third time, "What will you give me to do this for you?""I have nothing left that I can give you," replied the maiden."Then promise me your first born child if you become Queen," said he.The Miller's daughter thought, "Who can tell if that will ever happen?"and, ignorant how else to help herself out of her trouble, she promisedthe Dwarf what he desired. and he immediately set about and finished thespinning. When morning came, and the King found all he had wished fordone, he celebrated his wedding, and the Miller's fair daughter becameQueen.The gay times she had at the King's Court caused her to forget that shehad made a very foolish promise.About a year after the marriage, when she had ceased to think about thelittle Dwarf, she brought a fine child into the world. and, suddenly,soon after its birth, the very man appeared and demanded what she hadpromised. The frightened Queen offered him all the riches of the kingdomif he would leave her her child. but the Dwarf answered, "No. somethinghuman is dearer to me than all the wealth of the world."The Queen began to weep and groan so much that the Dwarf pitied her, andsaid, "I will leave you three days to consider. if you in that timediscover my name you shall keep your child."All night long the Queen racked her brains for all the names she couldthink of, and sent a messenger through the country to collect far andwide any new names. The following morning came the Dwarf, and she beganwith "Caspar," "Melchior," "Balthassar," and all the odd names she knew.but at each the little Man exclaimed, "That is not my name." The secondday the Queen inquired of all her people for uncommon and curious names,and called the Dwarf "Ribs of Beef," "Sheep shank," "Whalebone," but ateach he said, "This is not my name." The third day the messenger cameback and said, "I have not found a single name. but as I came to a highmountain near the edge of a forest, where foxes and hares say good nightto each other, I saw there a little house, and before the door a firewas burning, and round this fire a very curious little Man was dancingon one leg, and shouting:"'To day I stew, and then I'll bake,To morrow I shall the Queen's child take.Ah! how famous it is that nobody knowsThat my name is Rumpelstiltskin.'"When the Queen heard this she was very glad, for now she knew the name.and soon after came the Dwarf, and asked, "Now, my lady Queen, what ismy name?"First she said, "Are you called Conrade?" "No.""Are you called Hal?" "No.""Are you called Rumpelstiltskin?""A witch has told you! a witch has told you!" shrieked the little Man,and stamped his right foot so hard in the ground with rage that he couldnot draw it out again. Then he took hold of his left leg with both hishands, and pulled away so hard that his right came off in the struggle,and he hopped away howling terribly. And from that day to this the Queenhas heard no more of her troublesome visitor.