Once upon a time there was a miller who was poor, but who had a beautifuldaughter. Now it happened that he got into a conversation with the kingand said to him: "I have a daughter who knows the art of turning strawinto gold."So the king immediately sent for the miller's daughter and ordered her toturn a whole room full of straw into gold in one night. And if she couldnot do it, she would have to die. She was locked in the room, and she satthere and cried, because for her life she did not know how the straw wouldturn into gold.Then suddenly a little man appeared before her, and said: "What will yougive me, if I turn this all into gold?" She took off her necklace andgave it to the little man, and he did what he had promised.The next morning the king found the room filled with gold, and his heartbecame even more greedy. He put the miller's daughter into an even largerroom filled with straw, and told her to turn it into gold. The little mancame again. She gave him a ring from her hand, and he turned it all intogold.The third night the king had her locked in a third room, which was largerthan the first two, and entirely filled with straw. "If you succeed thistime, I'll make you my wife," he said.Then the little man came and said, "I'll do it again, but you must promiseme the first child that you have with the king."In her distress she made the promise, and when the king saw that thisstraw too had been turned into gold, he took the miller's daughter as hiswife.Soon thereafter the queen delivered a child. Then the little man appearedbefore her and demanded the child that had been promised him. The queenbegged him to let her keep the child, offering him great riches in itsplace.Finally he said, "I'll be back to get the child in three days. But if bythen you know my name, you can keep the child.!"For two days the queen pondered what the little man's name might be, butshe could not think of anything, and became very sad. On the third daythe king came home from a hunt and told her how, two days earlier, whilehunting deep in a dark forest, he had come upon a little house. A comicallittle man was there, jumping about as if on one leg, and crying out:Today I'll bake. tomorrow I'll brew.Then I'll fetch the queen's new child.It is good that no one knowsRumpelstiltskin is my name.The queen was overjoyed to hear this.Then the dangerous little man arrived and asked: "Your majesty, what is myname?""Is your name Conrad?""No.""Is your name Heinrich?""No.""Then could your name be Rumpelstiltskin?""The devil told you that!" shouted the little man. He ran away angrily,and never came back.