In Novgorod in the old days there was a young man just a boy hewas the son of a rich merchant who had lost all his money and died.So Sadko was very poor. He had not a kopeck in the world, except whatthe people gave him when he played his dulcimer for their dancing. Hehad blue eyes and curling hair, and he was strong, and would have beenmerry. but it is dull work playing for other folk to dance, and Sadkodared not dance with any young girl, for he had no money to marry on,and he did not want to be chased away as a beggar. And the young womenof Novgorod, they never looked at the handsome Sadko. No. they smiledwith their bright eyes at the young men who danced with them, and ifthey ever spoke to Sadko, it was just to tell him sharply to keep themusic going or to play faster.So Sadko lived alone with his dulcimer, and made do with half a loafwhen he could not get a whole, and with crust when he had no crumb. Hedid not mind so very much what came to him, so long as he could playhis dulcimer and walk along the banks of the little river Volkhovthat flows by Novgorod, or on the shores of the lake, making music forhimself, and seeing the pale mists rise over the water, and dawn orsunset across the shining river."There is no girl in all Novgorod as pretty as my little river," heused to say, and night after night he would sit by the banks of theriver or on the shores of the lake, playing the dulcimer and singingto himself.Sometimes he helped the fishermen on the lake, and they would give hima little fish for his supper in payment for his strong young arms.And it happened that one evening the fishermen asked him to watchtheir nets for them on the shore, while they went off to take theirfish to sell them in the square at Novgorod.(Footnote 1: The Volkhov would be a big river if it were in England,and Sadko and old Peter called it little only because they loved it.)Sadko sat on the shore, on a rock, and played his dulcimer and sang.Very sweetly he sang of the fair lake and the lovely river the littleriver that he thought prettier than all the girls of Novgorod. Andwhile he was singing he saw a whirlpool in the lake, little wavesflying from it across the water, and in the middle a hollow down intothe water. And in the hollow he saw the head of a great man with bluehair and a gold crown. He knew that the huge man was the Tzar of theSea. And the man came nearer, walking up out of the depths of thelake a huge, great man, a very giant, with blue hair falling to hiswaist over his broad shoulders. The little waves ran from him in alldirections as he came striding up out of the water.Sadko did not know whether to run or stay. but the Tzar of the Seacalled out to him in a great voice like wind and water in a storm, "Sadko of Novgorod, you have played and sung many days by the side ofthis lake and on the banks of the little river Volkhov. My daughterslove your music, and it has pleased me too. Throw out a net into thewater, and draw it in, and the waters will pay you for your singing.And if you are satisfied with the payment, you must come and play tous down in the green palace of the sea."With that the Tzar of the Sea went down again into the waters of thelake. The waves closed over him with a roar, and presently the lakewas as smooth and calm as it had ever been.Sadko thought, and said to himself: "Well, there is no harm done incasting out a net." So he threw a net out into the lake.He sat down again and played on his dulcimer and sang, and when he hadfinished his singing the dusk had fallen and the moon shone over thelake. He put down his dulcimer and took hold of the ropes of the net,and began to draw it up out of the silver water. Easily the ropescame, and the net, dripping and glittering in the moonlight."I was dreaming," said Sadko. "I was asleep when I saw the Tzar of theSea, and there is nothing in the net at all."And then, just as the last of the net was coming ashore, he sawsomething in it, square and dark. He dragged it out, and found it wasa coffer. He opened the coffer, and it was full of preciousstones green, red, gold gleaming in the light of the moon. Diamondsshone there like little bundles of sharp knives."There can be no harm in taking these stones," says Sadko, "whether Idreamed or not."He took the coffer on his shoulder, and bent under the weight of it,strong though he was. He put it in a safe place. All night he sat andwatched by the nets, and played and sang, and planned what he woulddo.In the morning the fishermen came, laughing and merry after theirnight in Novgorod, and they gave him a little fish for watching theirnets. and he made a fire on the shore, and cooked it and ate it as heused to do."And that is my last meal as a poor man," says Sadko. "Ah me! whoknows if I shall be happier?"Then he set the coffer on his shoulder and tramped away for Novgorod."Who is that?" they asked at the gates."Only Sadko the dulcimer player," he replied."Turned porter?" said they."One trade is as good as another," said Sadko, and he walked into thecity. He sold a few of the stones, two at a time, and with what he gotfor them he set up a booth in the market. Small things led to great,and he was soon one of the richest traders in Novgorod.And now there was not a girl in the town who could look too sweetly atSadko. "He has golden hair," says one. "Blue eyes like the sea," saysanother. "He could lift the world on his shoulders," says a third. Alittle money, you see, opens everybody's eyes.But Sadko was not changed by his good fortune. Still he walked andplayed by the little river Volkhov. When work was done and the tradersgone, Sadko would take his dulcimer and play and sing on the banks ofthe river. And still he said, "There is no girl in all Novgorod aspretty as my little river." Every time he came back from his longvoyages for he was trading far and near, like the greatest ofmerchants he went at once to the banks of the river to see how hissweetheart fared. And always he brought some little present for herand threw it into the waves.For twelve years he lived unmarried in Novgorod, and every year madevoyages, buying and selling, and always growing richer and richer.Many were the mothers in Novgorod who would have liked to see himmarried to their daughters. Many were the pillows that were wet withthe tears of the young girls, as they thought of the blue eyes ofSadko and his golden hair.And then, in the twelfth year since he walked into Novgorod with thecoffer on his shoulder, he was sailing in a ship on the Caspian Sea,far, far away. For many days the ship sailed on, and Sadko sat on deckand played his dulcimer and sang of Novgorod and of the little riverVolkhov that flows under the walls of the town. Blue was the CaspianSea, and the waves were like furrows in a field, long lines of whiteunder the steady wind, while the sails swelled and the ship shot overthe water.And suddenly the ship stopped.In the middle of the sea, far from land, the ship stopped and trembledin the waves, as if she were held by a big hand."We are aground!" cry the sailors. and the captain, the great one,tells them to take soundings. Seventy fathoms by the bow it was, andseventy fathoms by the stern."We are not aground," says the captain, "unless there is a rocksticking up like a needle in the middle of the Caspian Sea!""There is magic in this," say the sailors."Hoist more sail," says the captain. and up go the white sails,swelling out in the wind, while the masts bend and creak. But stillthe ship lay shivering and did not move, out there in the middle ofthe sea."Hoist more sail yet," says the captain. and up go the white sails,swelling and tugging, while the masts creak and groan. But still theship lay there shivering and did not move."There is an unlucky one aboard," says an old sailor. "We must drawlots and find him, and throw him overboard into the sea."The other sailors agreed to this. And still Sadko sat, and played hisdulcimer and sang.The sailors cut pieces of string, all of a length, as many as therewere souls in the ship, and one of those strings they cut in half.Then they made them into a bundle, and each man plucked one string.And Sadko stopped his playing for a moment to pluck a string, and hiswas the string that had been cut in half."Magician, sorcerer, unclean one!" shouted the sailors."Not so," said Sadko. "I remember now an old promise I made, and Ikeep it willingly."He took his dulcimer in his hand, and leapt from the ship into theblue Caspian Sea. The waves had scarcely closed over his head beforethe ship shot forward again, and flew over the waves like a swan'sfeather, and came in the end safely to her harbour."And what happened to Sadko?" asked Maroosia."You shall hear, little pigeon," said old Peter, and he took a pinchof snuff. Then he went on.Sadko dropped into the waves, and the waves closed over him. Down hesank, like a pebble thrown into a pool, down and down. First the waterwas blue, then green, and strange fish with goggle eyes and goldenfins swam round him as he sank. He came at last to the bottom of thesea.And there, on the bottom of the sea, was a palace built of green wood.Yes, all the timbers of all the ships that have been wrecked in allthe seas of the world are in that palace, and they are all green, andcunningly fitted together, so that the palace is worth a ten days'journey only to see it. And in front of the palace Sadko saw two bigkobbly sturgeons, each a hundred and fifty feet long, lashing theirtails and guarding the gates. Now, sturgeons are the oldest of allfish, and these were the oldest of all sturgeons.Sadko walked between the sturgeons and through the gates of thepalace. Inside there was a great hall, and the Tzar of the Sea layresting in the hall, with his gold crown on his head and his blue hairfloating round him in the water, and his great body covered withscales lying along the hall. The Tzar of the Sea filled the hall andthere is room in that hall for a village. And there were fish swimmingthis way and that in and out of the windows."Ah, Sadko," says the Tzar of the Sea, "you took what the sea gaveyou, but you have been a long time in coming to sing in the palaces ofthe sea. Twelve years I have lain here waiting for you.""Great Tzar, forgive," says Sadko."Sing now," says the Tzar of the Sea, and his voice was like thebeating of waves.And Sadko played on his dulcimer and sang.He sang of Novgorod and of the little river Volkhov which he loved. Itwas in his song that none of the girls of Novgorod were as pretty asthe little river. And there was the sound of wind over the lake in hissong, the sound of ripples under the prow of a boat, the sound ofripples on the shore, the sound of the river flowing past the tallreeds, the whispering sound of the river at night. And all the time heplayed cunningly on the dulcimer. The girls of Novgorod had neverdanced to so sweet a tune when in the old days Sadko played hisdulcimer to earn kopecks and crusts of bread.Never had the Tzar of the Sea heard such music."I would dance," said the Tzar of the Sea, and he stood up like a talltree in the hall."Play on," said the Tzar of the Sea, and he strode through the gates.The sturgeons guarding the gates stirred the water with their tails.And if the Tzar of the Sea was huge in the hall, he was huger stillwhen he stood outside on the bottom of the sea. He grew taller andtaller, towering like a mountain. His feet were like small hills. Hisblue hair hung down to his waist, and he was covered with greenscales. And he began to dance on the bottom of the sea.Great was that dancing. The sea boiled, and ships went down. The wavesrolled as big as houses. The sea overflowed its shores, and wholetowns were under water as the Tzar danced mightily on the bottom ofthe sea. Hither and thither rushed the waves, and the very earth shookat the dancing of that tremendous Tzar.He danced till he was tired, and then he came back to the palace ofgreen wood, and passed the sturgeons, and shrank into himself andcame through the gates into the hall, where Sadko still played on hisdulcimer and sang."You have played well and given me pleasure," says the Tzar of theSea. "I have thirty daughters, and you shall choose one and marry her,and be a Prince of the Sea.""Better than all maidens I love my little river," says Sadko. and theTzar of the Sea laughed and threw his head back, with his blue hairfloating all over the hall.And then there came in the thirty daughters of the Tzar of the Sea.Beautiful they were, lovely, and graceful. but twenty nine of thempassed by, and Sadko fingered his dulcimer and thought of his littleriver.There came in the thirtieth, and Sadko cried out aloud. "Here is theonly maiden in the world as pretty as my little river!" says he. Andshe looked at him with eyes that shone like stars reflected in theriver. Her hair was dark, like the river at night. She laughed, andher voice was like the flowing of the river."And what is the name of your little river?" says the Tzar."It is the little river Volkhov that flows by Novgorod," says Sadko."but your daughter is as fair as the little river, and I would gladlymarry her if she will have me.""It is a strange thing," says the Tzar, "but Volkhov is the name of myyoungest daughter."He put Sadko's hand in the hand of his youngest daughter, and theykissed each other. And as they kissed, Sadko saw a necklace round herneck, and knew it for one he had thrown into the river as a presentfor his sweetheart.She smiled, and "Come!" says she, and took him away to a palace of herown, and showed him a coffer. and in that coffer were bracelets andrings and earrings all the gifts that he had thrown into the river.And Sadko laughed for joy, and kissed the youngest daughter of theTzar of the Sea, and she kissed him back."O my little river!" says he. "there is no girl in all the world butthou as pretty as my little river."Well, they were married, and the Tzar of the Sea laughed at thewedding feast till the palace shook and the fish swam off in alldirections.And after the feast Sadko and his bride went off together to herpalace. And before they slept she kissed him very tenderly, and shesaid, "O Sadko, you will not forget me? You will play to me sometimes, andsing?""I shall never lose sight of you, my pretty one," says he. "and as formusic, I will sing and play all the day long.""That's as may be," says she, and they fell asleep.And in the middle of the night Sadko happened to turn in bed, and hetouched the Princess with his left foot, and she was cold, cold, coldas ice in January. And with that touch of cold he woke, and he waslying under the walls of Novgorod, with his dulcimer in his hand, andone of his feet was in the little river Volkhov, and the moon wasshining."O grandfather! And what happened to him after that?" asked Maroosia."There are many tales," said old Peter. "Some say he went into thetown, and lived on alone until he died. But I think with those who saythat he took his dulcimer and swam out into the middle of the river,and sank under water again, looking for his little Princess. They sayhe found her, and lives still in the green palaces of the bottom ofthe sea. and when there is a big storm, you may know that Sadko isplaying on his dulcimer and singing, and that the Tzar of the Sea isdancing his tremendous dance down there, on the bottom, under thewaves.""Yes, I expect that's what happened," said Ivan. "He'd have found itvery dull in Novgorod, even though it is a big town."