One evening, when they were sitting round the table after theirsupper, old Peter asked the children what story they would like tohear. Vanya asked whether there were any stories left which they hadnot already heard."Why," said old Peter, "you have heard scarcely any of the stories,for there is a story to be told about everything in the world.""About everything, grandfather?" asked Vanya."About everything," said old Peter."About the sky, and the thunder, and the dogs, and the flies, and thebirds, and the trees, and the milk?""There is a story about everyone of those things.""I know something there isn't a story about," said Vanya."And what's that?" asked old Peter, smiling in his beard."Salt," said Vanya. "There can't be a story about salt." He put thetip of his finger into the little box of salt on the table, and thenhe touched his tongue with his finger to taste."But of course there is a story about salt," said old Peter."Tell it us," said Maroosia. and presently, when his pipe had been littwice and gone out, old Peter began.Once upon a time there were three brothers, and their father was agreat merchant who sent his ships far over the sea, and traded hereand there in countries the names of which I, being an old man, cannever rightly call to mind. Well, the names of the two elder brothersdo not matter, but the youngest was called Ivan the Ninny, because hewas always playing and never working. and if there was a silly thingto do, why, off he went and did it. And so, when the brothers grew up,the father sent the two elder ones off, each in a fine ship laden withgold and jewels, and rings and bracelets, and laces and silks, andsticks with little bits of silver hammered into their handles, andspoons with patterns of blue and red, and everything else you canthink of that costs too much to buy. But he made Ivan the Ninny stayat home, and did not give him a ship at all. Ivan saw his brothers gosailing off over the sea on a summer morning, to make their fortunesand come back rich men. and then, for the first time in his life, hewanted to work and do something useful. He went to his father andkissed his hand, and he kissed the hand of his little old mother, andhe begged his father to give him a ship so that he could try hisfortune like his brothers."But you have never done a wise thing in your life, and no one couldcount all the silly things you've done if he spent a hundred days incounting," said his father."True," said Ivan. "but now I am going to be wise, and sail the seaand come back with something in my pockets to show that I am not aninny any longer. Give me just a little ship, father mine just alittle ship for myself.""Give him a little ship," said the mother. "He may not be a ninnyafter all.""Very well," said his father. "I will give him a little ship. but I amnot going to waste good roubles by giving him a rich cargo.""Give me any cargo you like," said Ivan.So his father gave him a little ship, a little old ship, and a cargoof rags and scraps and things that were not fit for anything but to bethrown away. And he gave him a crew of ancient old sailormen who werepast work. and Ivan went on board and sailed away at sunset, like theninny he was. And the feeble, ancient, old sailormen pulled up theragged, dirty sails, and away they went over the sea to learn whatfortune, good or bad, God had in mind for a crew of old men with aninny for a master.The fourth day after they set sail there came a great wind over thesea. The feeble old men did the best they could with the ship. but theold, torn sails tore from the masts, and the wind did what it pleased,and threw the little ship on an unknown island away in the middle ofthe sea. Then the wind dropped, and left the little ship on thebeach, and Ivan the Ninny and his ancient old men, like good Russians,praising God that they were still alive."Well, children," said Ivan, for he knew how to talk to sailors, "doyou stay here and mend the sails, and make new ones out of the rags wecarry as cargo, while I go inland and see if there is anything thatcould be of use to us."So the ancient old sailormen sat on deck with their legs crossed, andmade sails out of rags, of torn scraps of old brocades, of soiledembroidered shawls, of all the rubbish that they had with them for acargo. You never saw such sails. The tide came up and floated theship, and they threw out anchors at bow and stern, and sat there inthe sunlight, making sails and patching them and talking of the dayswhen they were young. All this while Ivan the Ninny went walking offinto the island.Now in the middle of that island was a high mountain, a high mountainit was, and so white that when he came near it Ivan the Ninny beganthinking of sheepskin coats, although it was midsummer and the sun washot in the sky. The trees were green round about, but there wasnothing growing on the mountain at all. It was just a great whitemountain piled up into the sky in the middle of a green island. Ivanwalked a little way up the white slopes of the mountain, and then,because he felt thirsty, he thought he would let a little snow melt inhis mouth. He took some in his fingers and stuffed it in. Quicklyenough it came out again, I can tell you, for the mountain was notmade of snow but of good Russian salt. And if you want to try what amouthful of salt is like, you may."No, thank you, grandfather," the children said hurriedly together.Old Peter went on with his tale.Ivan the Ninny did not stop to think twice. The salt was so clean andshone so brightly in the sunlight. He just turned round and ran backto the shore, and called out to his ancient old sailormen and toldthem to empty everything they had on board over into the sea. Over itall went, rags and tags and rotten timbers, till the little ship wasas empty as a soup bowl after supper. And then those ancient old menwere set to work carrying salt from the mountain and taking it onboard the little ship, and stowing it away below deck till there wasnot room for another grain. Ivan the Ninny would have liked to takethe whole mountain, but there was not room in the little ship. And forthat the ancient old sailormen thanked God, because their backs achedand their old legs were weak, and they said they would have died ifthey had had to carry any more.Then they hoisted up the new sails they had patched together out ofthe rags and scraps of shawls and old brocades, and they sailed awayonce more over the blue sea. And the wind stood fair, and they sailedbefore it, and the ancient old sailors rested their backs, and toldold tales, and took turn and turn about at the rudder.And after many days' sailing they came to a town, with towers andchurches and painted roofs, all set on the side of a hill that slopeddown into the sea. At the foot of the hill was a quiet harbour, andthey sailed in there and moored the ship and hauled down theirpatchwork sails.Ivan the Ninny went ashore, and took with him a little bag of cleanwhite salt to show what kind of goods he had for sale, and he askedhis way to the palace of the Tzar of that town. He came to the palace,and went in and bowed to the ground before the Tzar."Who are you?" says the Tzar."I, great lord, am a Russian merchant, and here in a bag is some of mymerchandise, and I beg your leave to trade with your subjects in thistown.""Let me see what is in the bag," says the Tzar. Ivan the Ninny took ahandful from the bag and showed it to the Tzar."What is it?" says the Tzar."Good Russian salt," says Ivan the Ninny.Now in that country they had never heard of salt, and the Tzar lookedat the salt, and he looked at Ivan and he laughed."Why, this," says he, "is nothing but white dust, and that we can pickup for nothing. The men of my town have no need to trade with you. Youmust be a ninny."Ivan grew very red, for he knew what his father used to call him. Hewas ashamed to say anything. So he bowed to the ground, and went awayout of the palace.But when he was outside he thought to himself, "I wonder what sort ofsalt they use in these parts if they do not know good Russian saltwhen they see it. I will go to the kitchen."So he went round to the back door of the palace, and put his head intothe kitchen, and said, "I am very tired. May I sit down here and resta little while?""Come in," says one of the cooks. "But you must sit just there, andnot put even your little finger in the way of us. for we are theTzar's cooks, and we are in the middle of making ready his dinner."And the cook put a stool in a corner out of the way, and Ivan slippedin round the door, and sat down in the corner and looked about him.There were seven cooks at least, boiling and baking, and stewing andtoasting, and roasting and frying. And as for scullions, they were asthick as cockroaches, dozens of them, running to and fro, tumblingover each other, and helping the cooks.Ivan the Ninny sat on his stool, with his legs tucked under him andthe bag of salt on his knees. He watched the cooks and the scullions,but he did not see them put anything in the dishes which he thoughtcould take the place of salt. No. the meat was without salt, the kashawas without salt, and there was no salt in the potatoes. Ivan nearlyturned sick at the thought of the tastelessness of all that food.There came the moment when all the cooks and scullions ran out of thekitchen to fetch the silver platters on which to lay the dishes. Ivanslipped down from his stool, and running from stove to stove, fromsaucepan to frying pan, he dropped a pinch of salt, just what waswanted, no more no less, in everyone of the dishes. Then he ran backto the stool in the corner, and sat there, and watched the dishesbeing put on the silver platters and carried off in gold embroiderednapkins to be the dinner of the Tzar.The Tzar sat at table and took his first spoonful of soup."The soup is very good to day," says he, and he finishes the soup tothe last drop."I've never known the soup so good," says the Tzaritza, and shefinishes hers."This is the best soup I ever tasted," says the Princess, and downgoes hers, and she, you know, was the prettiest princess who ever haddinner in this world.It was the same with the kasha and the same with the meat. The Tzarand the Tzaritza and the Princess wondered why they had never had sogood a dinner in all their lives before."Call the cooks," says the Tzar. And they called the cooks, and thecooks all came in, and bowed to the ground, and stood in a row beforethe Tzar."What did you put in the dishes to day that you never put before?"says the Tzar."We put nothing unusual, your greatness," say the cooks, and bowed tothe ground again."Then why do the dishes taste better?""We do not know, your greatness," say the cooks."Call the scullions," says the Tzar. And the scullions were called,and they too bowed to the ground, and stood in a row before the Tzar."What was done in the kitchen to day that has not been done therebefore?" says the Tzar."Nothing, your greatness," say all the scullions except one.And that one scullion bowed again, and kept on bowing, and then hesaid, "Please, your greatness, please, great lord, there is usuallynone in the kitchen but ourselves. but to day there was a youngRussian merchant, who sat on a stool in the corner and said he wastired.""Call the merchant," says the Tzar.So they brought in Ivan the Ninny, and he bowed before the Tzar, andstood there with his little bag of salt in his hand."Did you do anything to my dinner?" says the Tzar."I did, your greatness," says Ivan."What did you do?""I put a pinch of Russian salt in every dish.""That white dust?" says the Tzar."Nothing but that.""Have you got any more of it?""I have a little ship in the harbour laden with nothing else," saysIvan."It is the most wonderful dust in the world," says the Tzar, "and Iwill buy every grain of it you have. What do you want for it?"Ivan the Ninny scratched his head and thought. He thought that if theTzar liked it as much as all that it must be worth a fair price, so hesaid, "We will put the salt into bags, and for every bag of salt youmust give me three bags of the same weight one of gold, one ofsilver, and one of precious stones. Cheaper than that, your greatness,I could not possibly sell.""Agreed," says the Tzar. "And a cheap price, too, for a dust so fullof magic that it makes dull dishes tasty, and tasty dishes so goodthat there is no looking away from them."So all the day long, and far into the night, the ancient old sailormenbent their backs under sacks of salt, and bent them again under sacksof gold and silver and precious stones. When all the salt had been putin the Tzar's treasury yes, with twenty soldiers guarding it withgreat swords shining in the moonlight and when the little ship wasloaded with riches, so that even the deck was piled high with preciousstones, the ancient old men lay down among the jewels and slept tillmorning, when Ivan the Ninny went to bid good bye to the Tzar."And whither shall you sail now?" asked the Tzar."I shall sail away to Russia in my little ship," says Ivan.And the Princess, who was very beautiful, said, "A little Russianship?""Yes," says Ivan."I have never seen a Russian ship," says the Princess, and she begsher father to let her go to the harbour with her nurses and maids, tosee the little Russian ship before Ivan set sail.She came with Ivan to the harbour, and the ancient old sailormen tookthem on board.She ran all over the ship, looking now at this and now at that, andIvan told her the names of everything deck, mast, and rudder."May I see the sails?" she asked. And the ancient old men hoisted theragged sails, and the wind filled the sails and tugged."Why doesn't the ship move when the sails are up?" asked the Princess."The anchor holds her," said Ivan."Please let me see the anchor," says the Princess."Haul up the anchor, my children, and show it to the Princess," saysIvan to the ancient old sailormen.And the old men hauled up the anchor, and showed it to the Princess.and she said it was a very good little anchor. But, of course, as soonas the anchor was up the ship began to move. One of the ancient oldmen bent over the tiller, and, with a fair wind behind her, the littleship slipped out of the harbour and away to the blue sea. When thePrincess looked round, thinking it was time to go home, the littleship was far from land, and away in the distance she could only seethe gold towers of her father's palace, glittering like pin points inthe sunlight. Her nurses and maids wrung their hands and made anoutcry, and the Princess sat down on a heap of jewels, and put ahandkerchief to her eyes, and cried and cried and cried.Ivan the Ninny took her hands and comforted her, and told her of thewonders of the sea that he would show her, and the wonders of theland. And she looked up at him while he talked, and his eyes were kindand hers were sweet. and the end of it was that they were both verywell content, and agreed to have a marriage feast as soon as thelittle ship should bring them to the home of Ivan's father. Merry wasthat voyage. All day long Ivan and the Princess sat on deck and saidsweet things to each other, and at twilight they sang songs, and dranktea, and told stories. As for the nurses and maids, the Princess toldthem to be glad. and so they danced and clapped their hands, and ranabout the ship, and teased the ancient old sailormen.When they had been sailing many days, the Princess was looking outover the sea, and she cried out to Ivan, "See, over there, far away,are two big ships with white sails, not like our sails of brocade andbits of silk."Ivan looked, shading his eyes with his hands."Why, those are the ships of my elder brothers," said he. "We shallall sail home together."And he made the ancient old sailormen give a hail in their cracked oldvoices. And the brothers heard them, and came on board to greet Ivanand his bride. And when they saw that she was a Tzar's daughter, andthat the very decks were heaped with precious stones, because therewas no room below, they said one thing to Ivan and something else toeach other.To Ivan they said, "Thanks be to God, He has given you good trading."But to each other, "How can this be?" says one. "Ivan the Ninnybringing back such a cargo, while we in our fine ships have only a bagor two of gold.""And what is Ivan the Ninny doing with a princess?" says the other.And they ground their teeth, and waited their time, and came upsuddenly, when Ivan was alone in the twilight, and picked him up byhis head and his heels, and hove him overboard into the dark blue sea.Not one of the old men had seen them, and the Princess was not ondeck. In the morning they said that Ivan the Ninny must have walkedoverboard in his sleep. And they drew lots. The eldest brother tookthe Princess, and the second brother took the little ship laden withgold and silver and precious stones. And so the brothers sailed homevery well content. But the Princess sat and wept all day long, lookingdown into the blue water. The elder brother could not comfort her, andthe second brother did not try. And the ancient old sailormen mutteredin their beards, and were sorry, and prayed to God to give rest toIvan's soul. for although he had been a ninny, and although he hadmade them carry a lot of salt and other things, yet they loved him,because he knew how to talk to ancient old sailormen.But Ivan was not dead. As soon as he splashed into the water, hecrammed his fur hat a little tighter on his head, and began swimmingin the sea. He swam about until the sun rose, and then, not far away,he saw a floating timber log, and he swam to the log, and got astrideof it, and thanked God. And he sat there on the log in the middle ofthe sea, twiddling his thumbs for want of something to do.There was a strong current in the sea that carried him along, and atlast, after floating for many days without ever a bite for his teethor a drop for his gullet, his feet touched land. Now that was atnight, and he left the log and walked up out of the sea, and lay downon the shore and waited for morning.When the sun rose he stood up, and saw that he was on a bare island,and he saw nothing at all on the island except a huge house as big asa mountain. and as he was looking at the house the great door creakedwith a noise like that of a hurricane among the pine forests, andopened. and a giant came walking out, and came to the shore, and stoodthere, looking down at Ivan."What are you doing here, little one?" says the giant.Ivan told him the whole story, just as I have told it to you.The giant listened to the very end, pulling at his monstrous whiskers.Then he said, "Listen, little one. I know more of the story than you,for I can tell you that to morrow morning your eldest brother is goingto marry your Princess. But there is no need for you to take on aboutit. If you want to be there, I will carry you and set you down beforethe house in time for the wedding. And a fine wedding it is like tobe, for your father thinks well of those brothers of yours bringingback all those precious stones, and silver and gold enough to buy akingdom."And with that he picked up Ivan the Ninny and set him on his greatshoulders, and set off striding through the sea.He went so fast that the wind of his going blew off Ivan's hat."Stop a moment," shouts Ivan. "my hat has blown off.""We can't turn back for that," says the giant. "we have already leftyour hat five hundred versts behind us." And he rushed on, splashingthrough the sea. The sea was up to his armpits. He rushed on, and thesea was up to his waist. He rushed on, and before the sun had climbedto the top of the blue sky he was splashing up out of the sea with thewater about his ankles. He lifted Ivan from his shoulders and set himon the ground."Now," says he, "little man, off you run, and you'll be in time forthe feast. But don't you dare to boast about riding on my shoulders.If you open your mouth about that you'll smart for it, if I have tocome ten thousand thousand versts."Ivan the Ninny thanked the giant for carrying him through the sea,promised that he would not boast, and then ran off to his father'shouse. Long before he got there he heard the musicians in thecourtyard playing as if they wanted to wear out their instrumentsbefore night. The wedding feast had begun, and when Ivan ran in,there, at the high board, was sitting the Princess, and beside her hiseldest brother. And there were his father and mother, his secondbrother, and all the guests. And everyone of them was as merry ascould be, except the Princess, and she was as white as the salt he hadsold to her father.Suddenly the blood flushed into her cheeks. She saw Ivan in thedoorway. Up she jumped at the high board, and cried out, "There, thereis my true love, and not this man who sits beside me at the table.""What is this?" says Ivan's father, and in a few minutes knew thewhole story.He turned the two elder brothers out of doors, gave their ships toIvan, married him to the Princess, and made him his heir. And thewedding feast began again, and they sent for the ancient old sailormento take part in it. And the ancient old sailormen wept with joy whenthey saw Ivan and the Princess, like two sweet pigeons, sitting sideby side. yes, and they lifted their flagons with their old shakinghands, and cheered with their old cracked voices, and poured the winedown their dry old throats.There was wine enough and to spare, beer too, and mead enough todrown a herd of cattle. And as the guests drank and grew merry andproud they set to boasting. This one bragged of his riches, that oneof his wife. Another boasted of his cunning, another of his new house,another of his strength, and this one was angry because they would notlet him show how he could lift the table on one hand. They all drankIvan's health, and he drank theirs, and in the end he could not bearto listen to their proud boasts."That's all very well," says he, "but I am the only man in the worldwho rode on the shoulders of a giant to come to his wedding feast."The words were scarcely out of his mouth before there were atremendous trampling and a roar of a great wind. The house shook withthe footsteps of the giant as he strode up. The giant bent down overthe courtyard and looked in at the feast."Little man, little man," says he, "you promised not to boast of me. Itold you what would come if you did, and here you are and have boastedalready.""Forgive me," says Ivan. "it was the drink that boasted, not I.""What sort of drink is it that knows how to boast?" says the giant."You shall taste it," says Ivan.And he made his ancient old sailormen roll a great barrel of wine intothe yard, more than enough for a hundred men, and after that a barrelof beer that was as big, and then a barrel of mead that was nosmaller."Try the taste of that," says Ivan the Ninny.Well, the giant did not wait to be asked twice. He lifted the barrelof wine as if it had been a little glass, and emptied it down histhroat. He lifted the barrel of beer as if it had been an acorn, andemptied it after the wine. Then he lifted the barrel of mead as if ithad been a very small pea, and swallowed every drop of mead that wasin it. And after that he began stamping about and breaking things.Houses fell to pieces this way and that, and trees were swept flatlike grass. Every step the giant took was followed by the crash ofbreaking timbers. Then suddenly he fell flat on his back and slept.For three days and nights he slept without waking. At last he openedhis eyes."Just look about you," says Ivan, "and see the damage that you'vedone.""And did that little drop of drink make me do all that?" says thegiant. "Well, well, I can well understand that a drink like that cando a bit of bragging. And after that," says he, looking at the wrecksof houses, and all the broken things scattered about "after that,"says he, "you can boast of me for a thousand years, and I'll havenothing against you."And he tugged at his great whiskers, and wrinkled his eyes, and wentstriding off into the sea.That is the story about salt, and how it made a rich man of Ivan theNinny, and besides, gave him the prettiest wife in the world, and shea Tzar's daughter.