It was the custom in old times that as soon as a Japanese boy reachedmanhood he should leave his home and roam through the land in search ofadventures. Sometimes he would meet with a young man bent on the samebusiness as himself, and then they would fight in a friendly manner,merely to prove which was the stronger, but on other occasions theenemy would turn out to be a robber, who had become the terror of theneighbourhood, and then the battle was in deadly earnest.One day a youth started off from his native village, resolved neverto come back till he had done some great deed that would make his namefamous. But adventures did not seem very plentiful just then, and hewandered about for a long time without meeting either with fierce giantsor distressed damsels. At last he saw in the distance a wild mountain,half covered with a dense forest, and thinking that this promised wellat once took the road that led to it. The difficulties he met with hugerocks to be climbed, deep rivers to be crossed, and thorny tracts to beavoided only served to make his heart beat quicker, for he was reallybrave all through, and not merely when he could not help himself, like agreat many people. But in spite of all his efforts he could not find hisway out of the forest, and he began to think he should have to pass thenight there. Once more he strained his eyes to see if there was no placein which he could take shelter, and this time he caught sight of a smallchapel in a little clearing. He hastened quickly towards it, and curlinghimself up in a warm corner soon fell asleep.Not a sound was heard through the whole forest for some hours, but atmidnight there suddenly arose such a clamour that the young man, tiredas he was, started broad awake in an instant. Peeping cautiously betweenthe wooden pillars of the chapel, he saw a troop of hideous cats,dancing furiously, making the night horrible with their yells. Thefull moon lighted up the weird scene, and the young warrior gazedwith astonishment, taking great care to keep still, lest he should bediscovered. After some time he thought that in the midst of all theirshrieks he could make out the words, 'Do not tell Schippeitaro! Keep ithidden and secret! Do not tell Schippeitaro!' Then, the midnighthour having passed, they all vanished, and the youth was left alone.Exhausted by all that had been going on round him, he flung himself onthe ground and slept till the sun rose.The moment he woke he felt very hungry, and began to think how he couldget something to eat. So he got up and walked on, and before he had gonevery far was lucky enough to find a little side path, where he couldtrace men's footsteps. He followed the track, and by and by came on somescattered huts, beyond which lay a village. Delighted at this discovery,he was about to hasten to the village when he heard a woman's voiceweeping and lamenting, and calling on the men to take pity on her andhelp her. The sound of her distress made him forget he was hungry, andhe strode into the hut to find out for himself what was wrong. Butthe men whom he asked only shook their heads and told him it was not amatter in which he could give any help, for all this sorrow was causedby the Spirit of the Mountain, to whom every year they were bound tofurnish a maiden for him to eat.'To morrow night,' said they, 'the horrible creature will come for hisdinner, and the cries you have heard were uttered by the girl beforeyou, upon whom the lot has fallen.'And when the young man asked if the girl was carried off straight fromher home, they answered no, but that a large cask was set in the forestchapel, and into this she was fastened.As he listened to this story, the young man was filled with a greatlonging to rescue the maiden from her dreadful fate. The mention of thechapel set him thinking of the scene of the previous night, and hewent over all the details again in his mind. 'Who is Schippeitaro?' hesuddenly asked. 'can any of you tell me?''Schippeitaro is the great dog that belongs to the overseer of ourprince,' said they. 'and he lives not far away.' And they began to laughat the question, which seemed to them so odd and useless.The young man did not laugh with them, but instead left the hut and wentstraight to the owner of the dog, whom he begged to lend him the animaljust for one night. Schippeitaro's master was not at all willing togive him in charge to a man of whom he knew nothing, but in the endhe consented, and the youth led the dog away, promising faithfully toreturn him next day to his master. He next hurried to the hut wherethe maiden lived, and entreated her parents to shut her up safely in acloset, after which he took Schippeitaro to the cask, and fastened himinto it. In the evening he knew that the cask would be placed in thechapel, so he hid himself there and waited.At midnight, when the full moon appeared above the top of the mountain,the cats again filled the chapel and shrieked and yelled and dancedas before. But this time they had in their midst a huge black cat whoseemed to be their king, and whom the young man guessed to be the Spiritof the Mountain. The monster looked eagerly about him, and his eyessparkled with joy when he saw the cask. He bounded high into the airwith delight and uttered cries of pleasure. then he drew near and undidthe bolts.But instead of fastening his teeth in the neck of a beautiful maiden,Schippeitaro's teeth were fastened in HIM, and the youth ran up and cutoff his head with his sword. The other cats were so astonished at theturn things had taken that they forgot to run away, and the young manand Schippeitaro between them killed several more before they thought ofescaping.At sunrise the brave dog was taken back to his master, and from thattime the mountain girls were safe, and every year a feast was held inmemory of the young warrior and the dog Schippeitaro.(Japanische Marchen.)