The most formidable attribute of the elves, was the practice of carryingaway and exchanging children, and that of stealing human souls from theirbodies. "A persuasion prevails among the ignorant," says the author of aMS. history of Moray, that "in a consumptive disease, the fairies stealaway the soul, and put the soul of a fairy in the room of it."This belief prevails chiefly along the eastern coast of Scotland, where apractice, apparently of druidical origin, is used to avert the danger.In the increase of the March moon, withes of oak and ivy are cut, andtwisted into wreaths or circles, which they preserve till next March.After that period, when persons are consumptive, or children hectic, theycause them to pass thrice through these circles. In other cases the curewas more rough, and at least as dangerous as the disease, as will appearfrom the following extract: There is one thing remarkable in this parish of Suddie, (inIsverness shire,) which I think proper to mention. There is a small hillN.W. from the church commonly called Therdy Hill, or Hill of Therdie, assome term it. on the top of which there is a well, which I had thecuriosity to view, because of the several reports concerning it. Whenchildren happen to be sick, and languish long in their malady, so thatthey almost turn skeletons, the common people imagine they are taken away(at least the substance) by spirits, called Fairies, and the shadow leftwith them. so, at a particular season in summer, they leave them allnight themselves, watching at a distance, near this well, and this theyimagine will either end or mend them. they say many more dorecover than do not.Yea, an honest tenant who lives hard by it, and whom I had the curiosityto discourse about it, told me it has recovered some, who were abouteight or nine years of age, and to his certain knowledge, they bringadult persons to it. for, as he was passing one dark night, he heardgroanings, and, coming to the well, he found a man, who had been longsick, wrapped in a plaid, so that he could scarcely move, a stake beingfixed in the earth, with a rope, or tedder, that was about the plaid. hehad no sooner inquired what he was, but he conjured him to loose him, andout of sympathy he was pleased to slacken that wherein he was, as I mayso speak, swaddled. but, if I right remember, he signified, he did notrecover.  Account of the Parish of Suddie, apud Macfarlane'sMSS.According to the earlier doctrine, concerning the original corruption ofhuman nature, the power of demons over infants had been long reckonedconsiderable, in the period intervening between birth and baptism.During this period, therefore, children were believed to be particularlyliable to abstraction by the fairies, and mothers chiefly dreaded thesubstitution of changelings in the place of their own offspring. Variousmonstrous charms existed in Scotland, for procuring the restoration of achild which had been thus stolen. but the most efficacious of them wassupposed to be, the roasting of the supposititious child upon the liveembers, when it was believed it would vanish, and the true child appearin the place, whence it had been originally abstracted. (Note 1)It may be questioned if this experiment could now be made without theanimadversion of the law. Even that which is prescribed in the followinglegend is rather too hazardous for modern use.A certain woman having put out her child to nurse in the country, found,when she came to take it home, that its form was so much altered that shescarce knew it. nevertheless, not knowing what time might do, took ithome for her own. But when, after some years, it could neither speak norgo, the poor woman was fain to carry it, with much trouble, in her arms.and one day, a poor man coming to the door, "God bless you, mistress,"said he, "and your poor child. be pleased to bestow something on a poor man.""Ah! this child," replied she, "is the cause of all my sorrow," andrelated what had happened, adding, moreover, that she thought it changed,and none of her child. The old man, whom years had rendered more prudentin such matters, told her, to find out the truth, she should make a clearfire, sweep the hearth very clean, and place the child fast in his chair,that he might not fall, before it, and break a dozen eggs, and place thefour and twenty half shells before it. then go out, and listen at thedoor: for, if the child spoke, it was certainly a changeling. and thenshe should carry it out, and leave it on the dunghill to cry, and not topity it, till she heard its voice no more.The woman, having done all things according to these words, heard thechild say, "Seven years old was I before I came to the nurse, and fouryears have I lived since, and never saw so many milk pans before." Sothe woman took it up, and left it upon the dunghill to cry, and not to bepitied, till at last she thought the voice went up into the air. andcoming, found there her own natural and well favored child. Grose'sProvincial Glossary, quoted from "A Pleasant Treatise on Witchcraft.."