The following episode is an extract from the longer tale "The Kingdom of the Green Mountains."He (the soldier) was going on, and inquiring for the road to the kingdom of the Green Mountains. He was told by those of whom he made inquiry that they had never heard of such a kingdom. He was travelling from place to place, but was getting no information about the kingdom.He was ridiculed for speaking at all of such a place. He came one day to houses, and saw an old man putting divots (turf for roofs of houses) on a house, and said to him, "Ah! how old you are! and yet you are putting divots on the house."The old man said, "I am old. but my father is older than I.""Ah!" said the soldier, "Is your father alive?""He is," said the old man. "Where are you going?"I am going," said the soldier, "to the kingdom of the Green Mountains.""Well," said the old man, "I am old, but I have never heard of that kingdom. Perhaps my father knows about it.""Where is your father?" said the soldier."He is conveying the divots to me," said the old man, and will be here in a short time, when you may speak to him about that kingdom."The man who was conveying the divots arrived. and the soldier said to him, "Ah! man, how old you are!""By Mary, I am old. but my father is older than I," said the old man."Is your father still alive?" said the soldier."He is," said the old man."Where is he?" said the soldier."He is cutting the divots," said the old man.They then went to the man who was cutting the divots. and the soldier said, "Ah! man, how old you are! And yet you are cutting the divots."The old man said, "I am old. but my father is older than I.""Ah!" said the soldier. "Is your father, I wonder, still alive?""He is," said he."Where is he?" said the soldier."He is hunting birds in the hill," said the old man.The soldier said to him, "Have you ever heard of the kingdom of the Green Mountains?""I have not," said he. "but perhaps my father has. and when he comes home tonight you may ask him."He remained with the old man till evening, when the fowler came home.When the fowler came home the soldier said to him, "Ah! man, how old you are!""I am old," said he. "but my father is older than I.""Ah!" said the soldier, "is your father, I wonder, still alive?""By Mary! he is," said the fowler."Where is he?" said the soldier."He is in the house," said the fowler.The soldier said to him, "Have you ever heard of the kingdom of the Green Mountains?""I have not," said he. "but perhaps my father has."They went down to the house . and when they went in the old man was being rocked in a cradle.The soldier said to him, "Ah! man, what a great age has been granted to you!""Well! Yes, a very great age," said he.The soldier said to him, "Have you ever heard of the kingdom of the Green Mountains ?""Really," said the old man, "I have never heard of that kingdom."