SmockThere was once a tsar, named Chotei, who had three sons   the first,Aspar Tsarevich. the second, AdamTsarevich. and the third and youngest son, Sila Tsarevich. The two eldestbrothers entreated their father'spermission to travel in foreign countries and see the world. Then theyoungest brother, Sila Tsarevich, also beggedthe tsar's permission to travel with his brothers.But Chotei said, "My dear son, you are still young, and not used to thedifficulties of traveling. remain at home,and think no more of this fancy you have taken."But Sila Tsarevich had a great longing to see foreign lands, and entreatedhis father so much that at length the tsarconsented, and gave him a ship likewise. As soon as the three brothersembarked, each on board his ship, they allgave orders to set sail. And when they were out on the open sea, theeldest brother's ship sailed first, the secondbrother's next, and Sila Tsarevich sailed last.On the third day of the voyage they saw a coffin with iron bands floatingon the waves. The two eldest brotherssailed past without heeding it, but as soon as Sila Tsarevich saw thecoffin, he ordered the sailors to pick it up, layit on board his ship, and carry it to land.The next day a violent storm arose, by which Sila's ship was driven out ofits course, and cast upon a steep shore inan unknown country. Then Sila ordered his sailors to take the coffin andto carry it on shore, whither he himselffollowed, and buried it in the earth.Thereupon Sila Tsarevich ordered the captain to remain upon the spot wherethe ship was stranded, and await hisreturn for three years. but adding that, should he not come back in thattime, he should be free to set sail andreturn home. So saying, Sila took leave of his captain and his crew, andwent forthwith, journeying on and on.He wandered about for a long while, without seeing anyone. at length heheard a man running after him, dressedall in white. Then Sila Tsarevich turned round and saw the man followinghim. whereupon he instantly drew hissword to be upon his guard. But no sooner did the man come up to him thanhe fell on his knees and thanked Silafor having saved him. And Sila asked the man what he had done to deservehis thanks.Then the stranger stood up and answered, "Ah, Sila Tsarevich, how can Ithank you enough? There I lay in thecoffin, which you picked up at sea and buried. and had it not been for youI might have remained floating aboutfor a hundred years.""But how did you get into the coffin?" asked Sila."Listen, and I will tell you the whole story," replied Ivashka. "I was agreat magician. my mother was told that I didgreat mischief to mankind by my arts, and therefore ordered me to be putinto the coffin and set adrift on theopen sea. For more than a hundred years I have been floating about, and noone has ever picked me up. but to youI owe my rescue, and I will therefore serve you, and render you all thehelp in my power. Let me ask you whetheryou have not a wish to marry. I know the beautiful Queen Truda, who isworthy of being your wife."Sila replied that if this queen were indeed beautiful, he was willing tomarry her. and Ivashka told him she wasthe most beautiful woman in the world. When Sila heard this, he beggedIvashka to accompany him to herkingdom. So they set out and traveled on and on till they reached thatcountry.Now, Queen Truda's kingdom was surrounded by a palisade. and upon everystake was stuck a man's head, exceptone, which had no head. When Sila saw this, he was terrified, and askedIvashka what it meant. and Ivashka toldhim that these were the heads of heroes who had been suitors to QueenTruda. Sila shuddered on hearing this,and wished to return home without showing himself to the father of Truda.But Ivashka told him to fear nothingand go with him boldly, so Sila went on.When they entered the kingdom, Ivashka said, "Hearken Sila Tsarevich, Iwill be your servant, and when you enterthe royal halls, salute King Salom humbly. Then he will ask you whence youcame, and whose son you are, what isyour name and business. Tell him everything and conceal nothing. but saythat you are come to sue for hisdaughter's hand. He will give her to you with great joy."So Sila Tsarevich went into the palace, and, as soon as Prince Salom sawhim, he went himself to meet him, tookhim by his white hands, led him into the marble halls, and asked him,"Fair youth, from what country do youcome, whose son are you, what is your name, and what is your business?""I am from the kingdom of my father the Tsar Chotei," replied Sila. "Myname is Sila Tsarevich, and I am come tosue for your daughter, the beautiful Queen Truda."King Salom was overjoyed that the son of such a renowned tsar should behis son in law, and immediatelyordered his daughter to prepare for the wedding. And when the day for themarriage came, the king commandedall his princes and boyars to assemble in the palace. and they all went inprocession to the church, and SilaTsarevich was married to the fair Queen Truda. Then they returned to thepalace, seated themselves at table, andfeasted and made merry.When the time came to retire to rest, Ivashka took Sila aside andwhispered to him, "Hark, ye, Sila Tsarevich,when you go to rest, beware lest you speak a word to your bride or youwill not remain alive, and your head will bestuck on the last stake. She will in every way try to make you embraceher, but attend to what I say."Then Sila Tsarevich enquired why he warned him thus, and Ivashka replied,"She is in league with an evil spirit,who comes to her every night in the shape of a man, but flies through theair in the shape of a six headed dragon.Now, if she lays her hand upon your breast and presses it, jump up andbeat her with a stick until all her strengthis gone. I will meanwhile remain on watch at the door of your apartment."When Sila Tsarevich heard this, he went with his wife to rest, and QueenTruda tried in every way to get him tokiss her, but Sila lay quite still and spoke not a word. Then Truda laidher hand upon his breast and pressed him sohard that he could scarcely breathe. But up jumped Sila Tsarevich andseized the stick which Ivashka had laidthere ready for him, and fell to beating her as hard as he could.On a sudden there arose a storm, and a six headed dragon came flying intothe room and was going to devour SilaTsarevich, but Ivashka seized a sharp sword and attacked the dragon, andthey fought three hours, and Ivashkastruck off two of the dragon's heads, whereupon the monster flew away.Then Ivashka desired Sila Tsarevich to goto sleep and fear nothing. Sila obeyed him, laid himself down, and fellasleep.Early in the morning King Salom went to be informed whether his dear sonstill lived, and when he heard that Silawas alive and well, the king rejoiced, since he was the first who had beensaved from his daughter. and he instantlyordered Sila to be called, and the whole day was spent in merrymaking.The following night Ivashka gave Sila Tsarevich the same caution asbefore, not to speak a word to his wife, and heplaced himself on watch at the door. Then it fell out as before, and whenSila Tsarevich began to beat the queen,on a sudden the dragon came flying in, and was going to devour SilaTsarevich. But Ivashka rushed from behindthe door, sword in hand, and fought with the dragon and struck off twomore of his heads. Then the dragon flewaway, and Sila Tsarevich lay down to sleep. Early in the morning the kingcommanded Sila to be invited, and theyspent this day in the same pleasures as before.The third night the same happened again, and Ivashka cut off the last twoheads of the dragon, and he burnt allthe heads and strewed the ashes in the fields.Thus time passed on, and Sila Tsarevich lived with his father in law awhole year, without speaking to his wife orgaining her love. Then Ivashka told him one day to go to King Salom andask permission to return to his nativecountry. So Sila went to the king, who dismissed him, and gave him twosquadrons of his army to accompany himas an escort. Then Sila took leave of his father in law, and set out withhis wife on their journey to his own country.When they had gone half way, Ivashka told Sila Tsarevich to halt and pitchhis tent. So Sila obeyed and orderedthe tent to be put up. The next day Ivashka laid pieces of wood in frontof Sila's tent and set fire to them. Then heled Queen Truda out of the tent, unsheathed his sword, and cut her intwain.Sila Tsarevich shuddered with terror and began to weep. but Ivashka said,"Weep not, she will come to life again."And presently all sorts of evil things came forth from the body, andIvashka threw them all into the fire. Then hesaid to Sila Tsarevich, "See you not the evil spirits which troubled yourwife? She is now relieved from them."And, so saying, he laid the parts of Truda's body together, sprinkled themwith the water of life, and the queenwas instantly sound and whole as before.Then said Ivashka, "Now, farewell, Sila Tsarevich, you will find that yourwife loves you truly, but you will never seeme more." And so saying he vanished.Sila Tsarevich ordered the tent to be struck, and journeyed on to hisnative country. And when he came to theplace where his ship was waiting for him, he went onboard with the fairQueen Truda, dismissed the escort whichaccompanied him, and set sail. And on arriving at his own kingdom, he waswelcomed with salvos of cannon, andTsar Chotei came out of his palace and took him and the beautiful QueenTruda by their lily white hands, ledthem into the marble halls, placed them at table, and they feasted andmade merry.Sila Tsarevich lived with his father two years. Then he returned to thekingdom of King Salom, received from himthe crown, and ruled over the country with his Queen Truda in great loveand happiness.