"Rabba, Rabba, silly, silly Rabba, have you caught another whaleto day?"With this strange cry a number of children followed an elderly manthrough the streets of a town in the East. Their parents looked on inamusement and some of them called after the man as the little onesdid. Rabba, however, took no notice, but walked straight on with afaraway look in his eyes, as if his thoughts were elsewhere.Presently, on turning the corner of a street, he nearly ran into anArab coming in the opposite direction. As soon as the children saw theArab they turned and fled."Ali Rabba is coming," they cried to one another in warning, and asfast as their legs would carry them they made off to their homes.The Arab shook his fist threateningly after the children. Then heturned to the man whom they had followed."It is a shame," he said, hotly, "that the impudent ragamuffins ofthe town should be allowed to cast words of disrespect in the publicstreets at my sainted master, Rabba bar Chana, the man of profoundlearning and the famous traveller "(: They saw the land rise up like a huge mountainand a tremendous stream of water gush forth. (_Page 138_).)"Be gentle, good Ali," interrupted Rabba. "Remember they are littlemore than babes and have not full understanding. And how can they berespectful when their parents, who should have wisdom and faith,accept not our stories of the many adventures we have had? Yesterday,I told them of the day when our ship had been surrounded by fivethousand whales, each a mile long, and they jeered and cried'Impossible!'""Impossible!" echoed Ali, in a rage. "Was I not there with thee, mymaster? Did I not count every single whale myself? Who dares to doubtmy word? Have I not, for years, been thy faithful guide on thymarvelous journeys? Bah! What know these town fools, whose lives areno wider than the narrow streets in which they dwell, of the wondersof the vast world beyond the seas? Fools, ignorant fools, every one ofthem, my good master. Why stay you here with them and brook theirinsults and their sneers? Let us journey forth again this very day. Agood ship waits in the harbor."Ali's voice grew louder as his rage became stronger and a crowd wascollecting. Rabba hurried him away and together they made for theharbor. There they were soon engaged in earnest conversation with thecaptain of a vessel that had come from a distant land."I shall be glad to have two such famous travelers on my ship," saidthe captain. "I have heard of your adventures, and in my country 'tissaid that only those meet with wonders who dare to seek them andbelieve in them. I, too, would see the wonders of the world, andgladly will I give you passage on my ship."Next day Rabba and Ali stood on the deck of the vessel as the sail washoisted, and it moved slowly from the harbor to the accompaniment ofcheering and some laughter from a crowd on shore."Silly Rabba and Ali Rabba, don't forget to bring back the moon," theycried. "Find out where it goes when it is not here."Soon the land was out of sight, and scudding before favorable breezesthe ship made good progress. In ten days it had reached a sea in whichno vessel had ever sailed before. Ali said he could tell this becausethe fishes behaved queerly. They poked their heads out of the waterto gaze at the ship and then darted swiftly out of sight again. It wasquite plain that they had never before seen a ship, and they evidentlymistook it for some strange sea monster. Every day the fishes grewlarger, but no land was sighted until another five days had passed.Then a desert island appeared straight ahead, and the captain steeredtoward it. A few blades of grass grew here and there, and Rabbadetermined to land and explore the island.Accompanied by his faithful Ali, he entered a small boat and was rowedto the shore. They found a few vegetables growing that they had neverseen before, and so, collecting twigs from the short, stumpy bushes,they made a fire to cook them. While the vegetables were cooking theylooked around."It seems a vast land," said Rabba, "and yet over there, about threeor four miles away, I think I see water.""I think so, too," said Ali. "This must be the width of the land, butin the other directions I can see no end. But hark! What sound isthat?""'Tis like the rumbling of an earthquake," said Rabba, "and I am sureI felt the ground move. Indeed, it seems to me as if it is heaving upand down, like a living thing."A shout from the boat caused them to look in that direction, and theysaw their comrades pointing wildly and calling upon them to come back.Looking in the direction indicated, they saw the land rise up like ahuge mountain and a tremendous stream of water gush forth."This is not land. this is a whale," cried Rabba, in alarm. "Our firehas wakened it from slumber. Let us hasten to the ship before themonster plunges and drowns us."They hurried back to the boat and boarded the ship just as the whalebegan to move. It sank below the waves to quench the fire on its back,but it rose again, and then the vessel found itself in a new danger.It was lying between the body of the monster and one of its fins."Let me take command," said Ali. "I know best how to act in times ofdanger like this. We must avoid being struck by the fin, or we shallbe destroyed. We must find which way the monster is moving and go inthe opposite direction. otherwise we shall be wrecked when we come tothe place where the fin joins the body."There was no sleep for the crew that night. Everyone watchedcarefully, for the least false move may have meant instant disaster.Luckily the whale began to move on the surface of the sea against thewind, so that the ship, traveling in the opposite direction, had thewind behind it. Swiftly flew the ship before the breeze, but the finseemed to have no end, although the whale was traveling fast, too.Three days and three nights the ship continued before it came to theend of the fin. Then everyone on board breathed more freely."That was a lucky escape," said the captain to Rabba."Speak not too soon," replied the latter. "I have fears yet. We musthasten to get completely away from this monster, but the wind does notfavor any alteration of our course."Even as he spoke there was a great commotion in the water, and thewhale began to move backward at so fearful a speed that they couldscarcely see it. The water was violently agitated and the ship wastossed about as if it were a mere cork. A whole day this lasted. Thenthe motion grew slower as the head of the whale came past the ship."See," cried Ali, excitedly. "A small fish has stuck in the nostril ofthe monster. That is the cause of this commotion. The monster willsurely be killed."The agitation of the water now died down, and it was seen that thewhale was beginning to turn over."The monster is dead," said Rabba. "It will float on the waves like avast desert land and will be a danger to ships."For several days the vessel was compelled to follow the dead whale.Whenever an attempt was made to move away, the current or the windchanged and the carcass of the monster followed the ship. The captaindid not like this at all, for it was dangerous in the extreme. He wasafraid that the dead whale would strike the vessel and wreck it.At last land was sighted. Not even Rabba and Ali could recognize thecountry. They said they had never seen it before. Beautiful citiesdotted the shore, but to everybody's alarm, the body of the whalebegan to float toward the land.To make matters worse, a storm arose, and the monster rose and fellwith each motion of the angry waves."The cities will be destroyed if the whale strikes them," cried Rabba,"and it is impossible for us to warn the people."Nearer and nearer the whale was driven, while the captain of the shipdid his utmost to keep away so as not to be struck by the backwash.At length, with a tremendous crash, the monster was flung by thewaves, which had increased to a great height, against the shore. Abovethe shrieking of the wind could be heard the noise of fallingbuildings and the wild cries of the people. A huge wave caught theship and carried it a mile out to sea and then whirled it back againat a speed that made the crew hold their breath in awe.It seemed certain that the vessel would be dashed to pieces on theland, and the crew, with cries of warning and alarm, made haste tolash themselves to the masts. The mighty wave swept over the land,over the ruins of the towns, carrying the ship with it, and finallydeposited it among the trees of a dense forest a mile from the shore."At least we are safe for the present," said Rabba, when he hadrecovered from the shock and the surprise. "We are more fortunate thanthe poor people who have been overwhelmed by this strange disaster.""I should like to know how I am going to get my ship back to the sea,"said the captain. "I never heard of such a predicament before."Rabba merely shrugged his shoulders, and with Ali he walked to theshore. An extraordinary sight met their gaze. Thousands of peoplewere rushing madly to the forests. Everywhere was ruin anddesolation. All the towns along the coast, sixty in number theylearned afterward, had been destroyed by the stranding of the monsterand the tidal wave that followed, and what had not been leveled andswept out to sea had been carried inland to the forests and beyond.All along the coast, as far as the eye could see, lay the body of thewhale like a mountain range, and hundreds of people ran up and down,weeping bitterly and wringing their hands.Rabba gathered as many of them as he could together and addressedthem."Good people," he said, "ye are the victims of a terrible calamitythat has robbed you at one cruel blow of your homes, and many of youof your families. But ye that have survived have duties to yourselvesand to the future. In this hour of grief, despair not. There lies thefearful monster that has been your destruction. It shall also be yoursalvation. Its body can supply you all with food. What you cannot eat,you can salt and store for the future. Thousands of casks of oil canbe obtained from its blubber, and with this ye can trade. Then, too,its bones are valuable."The people thanked Rabba for his good advice, and immediately theyset about doing what he bade them. They told him this was a bewitchedland, the country of Kishef, abounding with terrible monsters both onland and in the sea, and ruled over by a malignant jinn, named Hormuz,who gave them no peace. They asked Rabba to try and kill this spritewho said that only a stranger to the land could do him harm, and soRabba and his faithful Ali, mounted on horses, set forth on theiradventures."I think I know this country," said Ali. "I believe I landed once onthe other shore. We cannot be far from the wilderness in which theIsraelites wandered."For several days they journeyed through forests and across plains andnothing happened. At last they came to a broad, high wall which barredtheir progress. They could find no opening through which to pass, andwhile they were wondering what to do, a strange figure suddenlyappeared on the wall. One of his legs was longer than the other, andhis arms were also of different length. His ears and eyes were alsounequal, and he hopped and bounded along the wall at amazing speed."My name is Hormuz," he cried. "Who are ye?""Strangers," called Rabba, and as soon as he heard the word, thesprite darted swiftly off along the top of the wall. But although thehorses ran at topmost speed, they could not overtake him, and hequickly disappeared. Where he was lost to sight, however, there was ahole in the wall, and through this Rabba and Ali just managed to taketheir horses. A vast wilderness lay before them.Ali picked up two clods of earth and smelt them."As I thought," he said, "this is the wilderness of the Israelites.Come, I will show thee strange sights."Before nightfall, they came to a place where the bodies of a largenumber of men lay strewn on the ground."These men must have been giants," said Rabba, as Ali, with his spearuplifted, rode under the raised knee of one of the bodies. "These mustbe the bodies of the Ephraimites who left Egypt before the rest of thechildren of Israel and were slain."He cut off a portion of a garment that still covered one of thebodies, but when he tried to move he could not. He seemed to be rootedto the spot. Nor could his horse move."Oh, oh," cried Ali, "my horse has lost its power to move. Thou musthave taken something from the dead. Return it, good master, or weshall be held fast here until we perish."Rabba returned the piece of garment, and they were able to move again.They hurried from the place and came to a chasm in the ground fromwhich smoke was rising."This is the pit in which Korah and his children were swallowed," saidAli."That must have been a wonderful sight," said Rabba. "I have heardthat the pit became like a funnel and that the air all about eddiedand sucked in everything that belonged to Korah. Even the things thatpeople had borrowed from him, such as dishes, rolled along the groundfrom a distance and into the pit. Come, let us hasten away."They continued their journey for many days, but could not see thedemon again. One day the desert ended and they came to the sea. Theyencamped for the night, and when morning broke Rabba was surprised tofind that the basket, in which they kept their provisions, haddisappeared."I think I can explain," said Ali. "No thieves have been here, butthis is the end of the world, the edge of the earth. Here, once inevery twenty four hours, the sky and the earth in their revolution,scrape together. The sky must have caught up your basket and carriedit away. It will be returned at the same hour tomorrow morning."Rabba awoke next morning before the sunrise and saw his basketfloating down to earth on a cloud. Both he and Ali were overjoyed whenthey recovered it, for they were very hungry. While they were eating,the sky grew dark, and looking up they saw what appeared to be a greatcloud above their heads. Out of the sea a mighty tree seemed suddenlyto have grown. They moved cautiously forward to investigate."Take heed," cried a voice of thunder. "I am a bird standing in thewater. It is so deep, with such swift currents, that seven years agoan axe fell in and has not yet reached the bottom."Rabba and Ali crouched on the ground in great fear, until at lastRabba called: "Mighty bird, we seek your help. We are anxious to findthe wicked jinn, Hormuz, and slay him so that people shall be free.""Follow me," answered the bird, and like a spreading cloud it flewalong the coast. Rabba and Ali followed on their horses."Look," cried Ali, suddenly, pointing out to sea.A huge snake and dragon were fighting, and at last the sea serpent,which was almost as big as the whale that had destroyed the towns,swallowed the dragon. No sooner had it done so, however, than thegiant bird swooped down and gobbled up the snake."That was a good fat worm for breakfast," called the bird. "Now Ishall rest."It flew toward a gigantic tree which now appeared. So tall was it thatits upper branches were lost in the clouds. The bird perched on abranch of the tree."Proceed along the coast until you come to two bridges," said thebird. "There you will find Hormuz. Give him two cups of wine to drink,then you can slay him. But be sure you take the diamond from his cap.I, the ziz, give you this warning."Rabba thanked the bird for its information, and with Ali continued onhis journey. After three days they came to a river crossed by twobridges, and with one foot on each stood Hormuz.As soon as he saw them he began to run, but Rabba called after him,"We bring thee an offering of good wine," and he promptly returned.Rabba filled the two cups which he had from a leathern bottle, andHormuz took a cup in each hand, smacking his lips as he did so."See," he said, and he tossed the wine into the air, and the wine fromthe right hand cup fell into the left hand cup and that from the lefthand cup into the right and not a drop was spilt. Then he swallowedthem both at one gulp.Almost immediately he fell down in a stupor, and Rabba stabbed himagain and again with his spear. Yet, when he seemed quite dead, hejumped up again."The diamond," cried Rabba, excitedly, and Ali snatched it from thecap of Hormuz. Then the demon fell dead."We can return now," said Rabba, and they set out at once, taking thebody with them. They halted only to take food, and the first time theydid so a funny thing happened. Ali had killed an animal and Rabba hadcaught some fish, and, while these were cooking, Rabba took the jinn'sdiamond from his pocket and examined it. At once the fish and theanimal came to life again, jumped out of the cooking pot and made off."This is a magic diamond," said Rabba, "that has the power to bringdead things to life. We keep it covered when we wish to eat."They did so, and after long journeying they came in sight of the greatwall and at last reached the place from which they had started. Theyhad been away twelve months in all, and the people were heartily gladto see them, especially when they heard that Hormuz had been killedand saw his body. They had worked hard on the carcass of the hugewhale and were rebuilding the sixty towns and villages that had beendestroyed, with the bones of the monster, using the skin as coveringsfor their tents.With the help of the magic diamond, Rabba called the ziz, and it tookthe ship which had been carried into the forest in its beak and flewwith it to the sea. Gathering their old comrades, Rabba and Ali setsail for home.All the inhabitants stood on shore and cheered as long as the ship wasin sight. They were sorry that Rabba was gone, but they felt certainnow that Hormuz was dead, that nevermore would they be troubled bymonsters which brought them such terrible disasters.(: He looked up and beheld the most beautiful womanhis eyes had ever seen. (_Page 157_).)