Once upon a time, in a great jungle, there lived a great lion. He wasrajah of all the country round. and every day he used toleave his den, in the deepest shadow of the rocks, and roar with a loud,angry voice. And when he roared, the other animals inthe jungle, who were all his subjects, got very much frightened, and ranhere and there. And Singh Rajah (Lion King) wouldpounce upon them, and kill them, and gobble them up for his dinner.This went on for a long, long time, until, at last, there were noliving creatures left in the jungle but two little jackals, a rajahjackal and a ranee jackal, husband and wife.A very hard time of it the poor little jackals had, running this wayand that to escape the terrible Singh Rajah. And every daythe little ranee jackal would say to her husband, "I am afraid he willcatch us today. Do you hear how he is roaring? Oh dear, ohdear!"And he would answer her, "Never fear. I will take care of you. Let usrun on a mile or two. Come, come,   quick, quick,quick!"And they would both run away as fast as they could.After some time spent in this way, they found, however, one fine day,that the lion was so close upon them that they couldnot escape.Then the little ranee jackal said, "Husband, husband! I feel veryfrightened. The Singh Rajah is so angry he will certainly killus at once. What can we do?"But he answered, "Cheer up. We can save ourselves yet. Come, and I'llshow you how we may manage it."So what did these cunning little jackals do, but they went to the greatlion's den. and when he saw them coming, he began toroar and shake his mane, and he said, "You little wretches, come and beeaten at once! I have had no dinner for three wholedays, and all that time I have been running over hill and dale to findyou. Ro a ar! Ro a ar! Come and be eaten, I say!"And he lashed his tail and gnashed his teeth, and looked very terribleindeed.Then the jackal rajah, creeping quite close up to him, said, "O greatSingh Rajah, we all know you are our master, and wewould have come at your bidding long ago. but indeed, sir, there is a muchbigger rajah even than you in this jungle, and he triedto catch hold of us and eat us up, and frightened us so much that we wereobliged to run away.""What do you mean?" growled Singh Rajah. "There is no king in thisjungle but me!""Ah, sire," answered the jackal, "in truth one would think so, for youare very dreadful. Your very voice is death. But it is aswe say, for we, with our own eyes, have seen one with whom you could notcompete. whose equal you can no more be than weare yours. whose face is as flaming fire, his step as thunder, and hispower supreme.""It is impossible!" interrupted the old lion. "But show me this rajahof whom you speak so much, that I may destroy himinstantly!"Then the little jackals ran on before him until they reached a greatwell, and, pointing down to his own reflection in the water,they said, "See, sire, there lives the terrible king of whom we spoke."When Singh Rajah looked down the well he became very angry, for hethought he saw another lion there. He roared andshook his great mane, and the shadow lion shook his, and looked terriblydefiant. At last, beside himself with rage at theinsolence of his opponent, Singh Rajah sprang down to kill him at once,but no other lion was there   only the treacherousreflection.And the sides of the well were so steep that he could not get outagain, to punish the two jackals, who peeped over the top.After struggling for some time in the deep water, he sank to rise no more.And the little jackals threw stones down upon him from above, anddanced round and round the well, singing, "Ao! Ao!Ao! Ao! The king of the forest is dead, is dead. We have killed the greatlion who would have killed us! Ao! Ao! Ao! Ao!Ring a ting   ding a ting! Ring a ting   ding a ting! Ao! Ao! Ao!"