Last Sunday morning at six o'clock in the evening as I was sailing overthe tops of the mountains in my little boat, I met two men on horsebackriding on one mare. So I asked them, could they tell me whether the littleold woman was dead yet who was hanged last Saturday week for drowningherself in a shower of feathers?They said they could not positively inform me, but if I went to SirGammer Vans he could tell me all about it."But how am I to know the house?" said I."Ho, 'tis easy enough," said they, "for 'tis a brick house, builtentirely of flints, standing alone by itself in the middle of sixty orseventy others just like it.""Oh, nothing in the world is easier," said I."Nothing can be easier," said they. So I went on my way.Now this Sir G. Vans was a giant, and a bottle maker. And as all giantswho are bottle makers usually pop out of a little thumb bottle from behindthe door, so did Sir G. Vans."How d'ye do?" says he."Very well, I thank you," says I."Have some breakfast with me?""With all my heart," says I.So he gave me a slice of beer, and a cup of cold veal. And there was alittle dog under the table that picked up all the crumbs."Hang him," says I."No, don't hang him," says he, "for he killed a hare yesterday. And ifyou don't believe me, I'll show you the hare alive in a basket."So he took me into his garden to show me the curiosities. In one cornerthere was a fox hatching eagle's eggs. In another there was an iron appletree, entirely covered with pears and lead. In the third there was thehare which the dog killed yesterday alive in the basket. And in the fourththere were twenty four hipper switches threshing tobacco, and at the sightof me they threshed so hard that they drove the plug through the wall, andthrough a little dog that was passing by on the other side.I, hearing the dog howl, jumped over the wall and turned it as neatlyinside out as possible, when it ran away as if it had not an hour to live.Then he took me into the park to show me his deer. And I remembered that Ihad a warrant in my pocket to shoot venison for his majesty's dinner. So Iset fire to my bow, poised my arrow, and shot amongst them. I brokeseventeen ribs on one side, and twenty one and a half on the other, but myarrow passed clean through without ever touching it, and the worst was Ilost my arrow. However, I found it again in the hollow of a tree. I feltit. It felt clammy. I smelt it. It smelt honey."Oh, ho," said I. "Here's a bee's nest," when out sprang a covey ofpartridges. I shot at them. Some say I killed eighteen, but I am sure Ikilled thirty six, besides a dead salmon which was flying over the bridge,of which I made the best apple pie I ever tasted.