"I wish we could but catch a spriggan, a piskey, or a knacker," says Capt. Mathy one night. "Ef one can but lay hands on any of the smale people unawares before they vanish, or turn into muryans (ants), they may be made to tell where the goold es buried.""Ded 'e ever hear of anybody who ever catched one?" Jack asked."Why ess, and knowed his son too. he was my near neighbour, and lived in Trevidga: he told me all about et."One day Uncle Billy, his father, was over in the craft, Zennor church town side of the hill, cuttan away down in the bottom, where the furze was as high as his head, with bare places here and there, among the brakes all grown over with three leaved grass (white clover), hurt trees (whortleberry plants), and griglans (heath). Uncle Billy was cuttan an openan into one of these places, thinkan to touch pipe there, eat his fuggan (heavy cake), and have a smoke.As he opened the furze, to come to work his hook handy, he spied the prettiest little creature of a smale body one ever seed, sleepan away on a bank of wild thyme all in blossom. The little creature wasn't bigger than a cat, yet every inch like a man, dressed in a green coat, sky blue breeches and stockings, with diamond buckled shoes. his little three cocked hat was drawn over his face to shade en from the sun while he slept. Uncle Billy stopped and looked at am more than a minute, langan to carry an home some way or other."Ef I could but keep am," thought he, "we should soon be rich enow to ride in a coach."Then he put down the furze hook easy, took off the cuff from his arm, and slipped the little gentleman into the cuff, feet foremost, before he waked up.The little fellow then opened his pretty brown eyes and said, "Mammy! where are 'e, mammy and daddy! and where am I? And who are you? You are a ?ne great bucca sure enough. what are 'e caled, an?" says he to Uncle Billy. "I want my mammy! Can 'e ?nd her for me?""I don't know where abouts she do put up," says Uncle Billy. "Come, you shall go home with me, ef you will, and live with our people till your mother do come for 'e.""Very well," says the spriggan. "I dearly love to ride the kids over the rocks, and to have milk and blackberries for supper. Will 'e give me some?""Ess, my son, and bread and honey too," says the old man Uncle Billy, as he took the small body up in his arms and carried him home.When the little chap was took out of the furze cuff and placed upon the hearth stone, he begun to play with the children as if he had lived with them all his lifetime. The old man and woman were delighted. The children crowed for joy to see the pretty little man jumpan about, and they called am Bobby Griglans. Twice a day a little chayne cup of milk, fresh from the cow, was given to Bobby. He was very nice in his diet, and didn't care for anything but a drop of milk, and a few blackberries, hurts, or hoggans (haws) for a change.In the mornings, when the work was going on, he would perch himself up on the furze and ferns in the top of the wood corner, to be out of the smut and dirt. There he would sing and chirrup away like a robin redbreast. When the hearth was swept, the turfy ?re made up, and the old woman ?xed on the chimney stool, to knit for the afternoon, Bobby would dance for hours together on the hearth stone, before her. The faster the knitting needles clicked, the quicker Bobby would spin round and round.Uncle Billy and An Mary wouldn't leave Bobby go out to play, for fear he might be seen, or run away, before the next good moonlight nights, when he promised to show the old couple the exact spot, on Rosewall Hill, where there was lots of money buried, and another place on the hill where there was a good lode of tin.Three days after Bobby Griglans was catched and carried up to Trevidga, half a score or more of the neighbours came, with their horses and leaders, to help Uncle Billy get home his furze from the hill, in trusses, and to help him make the rick for winter, as the custom was before wheel roads were made and wains came into use.The old man didn't like for the spriggan to be seen, so he shut him and the youngest children up in the barn and put a padlock on the door. The smale people had been getting scarcer and scarcer, as so much larning and love of unpoetical facts came into fashan, until they were nearly all frightened away. However, Uncle Billy would keep his out of sight for the time, because you see it was become such a rare thing to see a spriggan or piskey that the folks would be coming about in troops to have a look at Bobby, who didn't like to be gazed at and made to show all his parts to strangers."Now, stay in the barn and play like good children, but ef one of 'e cry, or try to get out, you will get your breeches warmed with a good wallopan," says Uncle Billy.The children were sometimes heard laughan and sometimes cryan. Bobby passed the time dancean on the barn boards and peepan through the cracks in the door at the furze carriers. but, as soon as ever the men went in to dinner, up jumped Bob, unbarred the winder, called to the children, "Come along, come, quick. now for a game of mop and heede' (hide and seek)."Bob and the children jumped out and away, to play among the trusses of furze dropped all round the stem of the rick. In turnan a corner they saw a little man and woman no bigger than Bob. The little man was dressed just like an, only he wore high ridan boots with little silver spurs. The little woman's green gound was spangled all over with silver stars. diamond buckles shone in her high heeled shoes. and her little steeple crowned blue hat, perched on a pile of golden curls, was wreathed round with griglan blossoms.The pretty little soul was wringan her hands and cryan, "Oh! my dear and tender Skillywidden. wherever can'st a be gone to? Shall I never cast eyes on thee any more, my only joy?""Now go 'e back, do," says Bob to the children. "My dad and mam are come here too!" On the same breath he called out, "Here I am, mammy."By the time he said "Here I am," the little man and woman, with their precious Skillywidden, were no more to be seen, and they have never ben seen there since.The children got a good threshan for leavan Skillywidden get away, and serve them right, for ef they had kept an in tell night, he would have shown their daddy where plenty of crocks of gold are buried, and all of them would be gentry now.