Slavonic story. Contes Populaires Slaves, traduits par Louis Leger.Paris: Leroux, Editeur.Once upon a time there lived a peasant called Ivan, and he had a wifewhose name was Marie. They would have been quite happy except for onething: they had no children to play with, and as they were now oldpeople they did not find that watching the children of their neighboursat all made up to them for having one of their own.One winter, which nobody living will ever forget, the snow lay so deepthat it came up to the knees of even the tallest man. When it had allfallen, and the sun was shining again, the children ran out into thestreet to play, and the old man and his wife sat at their window andgazed at them. The children first made a sort of little terrace, andstamped it hard and firm, and then they began to make a snow woman. Ivanand Marie watched them, the while thinking about many things.Suddenly Ivan's face brightened, and, looking at his wife, he said,'Wife, why shouldn't we make a snow woman too?''Why not?' replied Marie, who happened to be in a very good temper. 'itmight amuse us a little. But there is no use making a woman. Let us makea little snow child, and pretend it is a living one.''Yes, let us do that,' said Ivan, and he took down his cap and went intothe garden with his old wife.Then the two set to work with all their might to make a doll out ofthe snow. They shaped a little body and two little hands and two littlefeet. On top of all they placed a ball of snow, out of which the headwas to be.'What in the world are you doing?' asked a passer by.'Can't you guess?' returned Ivan.'Making a snow child,' replied Marie.They had finished the nose and the chin. Two holes were left for theeyes, and Ivan carefully shaped out the mouth. No sooner had he done sothan he felt a warm breath upon his cheek. He started back in surpriseand looked and behold! the eyes of the child met his, and its lips,which were as red as raspberries, smiled at him!'What is it?' cried Ivan, crossing himself. 'Am I mad, or is the thingbewitched?'The snow child bent its head as if it had been really alive. It movedits little arms and its little legs in the snow that lay about it justas the living children did theirs.'Ah! Ivan, Ivan,' exclaimed Marie, trembling with joy, 'heaven has sentus a child at last!' And she threw herself upon Snowflake (for that wasthe snow child's name) and covered her with kisses. And the loose snowfell away from Snowflake as an egg shell does from an egg, and it was alittle girl whom Marie held in her arms.'Oh! my darling Snowflake!' cried the old woman, and led her into thecottage.And Snowflake grew fast. each hour as well as each day made adifference, and every day she became more and more beautiful. The oldcouple hardly knew how to contain themselves for joy, and thought ofnothing else. The cottage was always full of village children, for theyamused Snowflake, and there was nothing in the world they would nothave done to amuse her. She was their doll, and they were continuallyinventing new dresses for her, and teaching her songs or playing withher. Nobody knew how clever she was! She noticed everything, and couldlearn a lesson in a moment. Anyone would have taken her for thirteenat least! And, besides all that, she was so good and obedient. andso pretty, too! Her skin was as white as snow, her eyes as blue asforget me nots, and her hair was long and golden. Only her cheeks had nocolour in them, but were as fair as her forehead.So the winter went on, till at last the spring sun mounted higher in theheavens and began to warm the earth. The grass grew green in the fields,and high in the air the larks were heard singing. The village girls metand danced in a ring, singing, 'Beautiful spring, how came you here?How came you here? Did you come on a plough, or was it a harrow?' OnlySnowflake sat quite still by the window of the cottage.'What is the matter, dear child?' asked Marie. 'Why are you so sad? Areyou ill? or have they treated you unkindly?''No,' replied Snowflake, 'it is nothing, mother. no one has hurt me. Iam well.'The spring sun had chased away the last snow from its hiding place underthe hedges. the fields were full of flowers. nightingales sang in thetrees, and all the world was gay. But the gayer grew the birds and theflowers the sadder became Snowflake. She hid herself from her playmates,and curled herself up where the shadows were deepest, like a lilyamongst its leaves. Her only pleasure was to lie amid the green willowsnear some sparkling stream. At the dawn and at twilight only she seemedhappy. When a great storm broke, and the earth was white with hail, shebecame bright and joyous as the Snowflake of old. but when the cloudspassed, and the hail melted beneath the sun, Snowflake would burst intotears and weep as a sister would weep over her brother.The spring passed, and it was the eve of St. John, or Midsummer Day.This was the greatest holiday of the year, when the young girls met inthe woods to dance and play. They went to fetch Snowflake, and said toMarie: 'Let her come and dance with us.'But Marie was afraid. she could not tell why, only she could not bearthe child to go. Snowflake did not wish to go either, but they had noexcuse ready. So Marie kissed the girl and said: 'Go, my Snowflake, andbe happy with your friends, and you, dear children, be careful of her.You know she is the light of my eyes to me.''Oh, we will take care of her,' cried the girls gaily, and they ran offto the woods. There they wore wreaths, gathered nosegays, and sang songssome sad, some merry. And whatever they did Snowflake did too.When the sun set they lit a fire of dry grass, and placed themselves ina row, Snowflake being the last of all. 'Now, watch us,' they said, 'andrun just as we do.'And they all began to sing and to jump one after another across thefire.Suddenly, close behind them, they heard a sigh, then a groan. 'Ah!' Theyturned hastily and looked at each other. There was nothing. Theylooked again. Where was Snowflake? She has hidden herself for fun, theythought, and searched for her everywhere. 'Snowflake! Snowflake!' Butthere was no answer. 'Where can she be? Oh, she must have gone home.'They returned to the village, but there was no Snowflake.For days after that they sought her high and low. They examined everybush and every hedge, but there was no Snowflake. And long aftereveryone else had given up hope Ivan and Marie would wander through thewoods crying 'Snowflake, my dove, come back, come back!' And sometimesthey thought they heard a call, but it was never the voice of Snowflake.And what had become of her? Had a fierce wild beast seized her anddragged her into his lair in the forest? Had some bird carried her offacross the wide blue sea?No, no beast had touched her, no bird had borne her away. With thefirst breath of flame that swept over her when she ran with her friendsSnowflake had melted away, and a little soft haze floating upwards wasall that remained of her.