"We had such an excellent dinner yesterday," said an old mouseof the female sex to another who had not been present at the feast. "Isat number twenty one below the mouse king, which was not a bad place.Shall I tell you what we had? Everything was first rate. Mouldy bread,tallow candle, and sausage. And then, when we had finished thatcourse, the same came on all over again. it was as good as two feasts.We were very sociable, and there was as much joking and fun as if wehad been all of one family circle. Nothing was left but the sausageskewers, and this formed a subject of conversation, till at last itturned to the proverb, 'Soup from sausage skins.' or, as the people inthe neighboring country call it, 'Soup from a sausage skewer.' Everyone had heard the proverb, but no one had ever tasted the soup, muchless prepared it. A capital toast was drunk to the inventor of thesoup, and some one said he ought to be made a relieving officer to thepoor. Was not that witty? Then the old mouse king rose and promisedthat the young lady mouse who should learn how best to prepare thismuch admired and savory soup should be his queen, and a year and a dayshould be allowed for the purpose.""That was not at all a bad proposal," said the other mouse. "buthow is the soup made?""Ah, that is more than I can tell you. All the young lady micewere asking the same question. They wished very much to be queen,but they did not want to take the trouble of going out into theworld to learn how to make soup, which was absolutely necessary tobe done first. But it is not every one who would care to leave herfamily, or her happy corner by the fire side at home, even to bemade queen. It is not always easy to find bacon and cheese rind inforeign lands every day, and it is not pleasant to have to endurehunger, and be perhaps, after all, eaten up alive by the cat."Most probably some such thoughts as these discouraged themajority from going out into the world to collect the requiredinformation. Only four mice gave notice that they were ready to setout on the journey. They were young and lively, but poor. Each of themwished to visit one of the four divisions of the world, so that itmight be seen which was the most favored by fortune. Every one tooka sausage skewer as a traveller's staff, and to remind them of theobject of their journey. They left home early in May, and none of themreturned till the first of May in the following year, and then onlythree of them. Nothing was seen or heard of the fourth, although theday of decision was close at hand. "Ah, yes, there is always sometrouble mixed up with the greatest pleasure," said the mouse king. buthe gave orders that all the mice within a circle of many milesshould be invited at once. They were to assemble in the kitchen, andthe three travelled mice were to stand in a row before them, while asausage skewer, covered with crape, was to be stuck up instead ofthe missing mouse. No one dared to express an opinion until the kingspoke, and desired one of them to go on with her story. And now weshall hear what she said.WHAT THE FIRST LITTLE MOUSE SAW AND HEARD ON HER TRAVELS"When I first went out into the world," said the little mouse,"I fancied, as so many of my age do, that I already knew everything,but it was not so. It takes years to acquire great knowledge. I wentat once to sea in a ship bound for the north. I had been told that theship's cook must know how to prepare every dish at sea, and it is easyenough to do that with plenty of sides of bacon, and large tubs ofsalt meat and mouldy flour. There I found plenty of delicate food, butno opportunity for learning how to make soup from a sausage skewer. Wesailed on for many days and nights. the ship rocked fearfully, andwe did not escape without a wetting. As soon as we arrived at the portto which the ship was bound, I left it, and went on shore at a placefar towards the north. It is a wonderful thing to leave your ownlittle corner at home, to hide yourself in a ship where there are sureto be some nice snug corners for shelter, then suddenly to findyourself thousands of miles away in a foreign land. I saw largepathless forests of pine and birch trees, which smelt so strong that Isneezed and thought of sausage. There were great lakes also whichlooked as black as ink at a distance, but were quite clear when I cameclose to them. Large swans were floating upon them, and I thought atfirst they were only foam, they lay so still. but when I saw them walkand fly, I knew what they were directly. They belong to the goosespecies, one can see that by their walk. No one can attempt todisguise family descent. I kept with my own kind, and associatedwith the forest and field mice, who, however, knew very little,especially about what I wanted to know, and which had actually made metravel abroad. The idea that soup could be made from a sausageskewer was to them such an out of the way, unlikely thought, that itwas repeated from one to another through the whole forest. Theydeclared that the problem would never be solved, that the thing was animpossibility. How little I thought that in this place, on the veryfirst night, I should be initiated into the manner of its preparation."It was the height of summer, which the mice told me was thereason that the forest smelt so strong, and that the herbs were sofragrant, and the lakes with the white swimming swans so dark, and yetso clear. On the margin of the wood, near to three or four houses, apole, as large as the mainmast of a ship, had been erected, and fromthe summit hung wreaths of flowers and fluttering ribbons. it wasthe Maypole. Lads and lasses danced round the pole, and tried to outdothe violins of the musicians with their singing. They were as merry asever at sunset and in the moonlight, but I took no part in themerry making. What has a little mouse to do with a Maypole dance? Isat in the soft moss, and held my sausage skewer tight. The moon threwits beams particularly on one spot where stood a tree covered withexceedingly fine moss. I may almost venture to say that it was as fineand soft as the fur of the mouse king, but it was green, which is acolor very agreeable to the eye. All at once I saw the most charminglittle people marching towards me. They did not reach higher than myknee. they looked like human beings, but were better proportioned, andthey called themselves elves. Their clothes were very delicate andfine, for they were made of the leaves of flowers, trimmed with thewings of flies and gnats, which had not a bad effect. By their manner,it appeared as if they were seeking for something. I knew not what,till at last one of them espied me and came towards me, and theforemost pointed to my sausage skewer, and said, 'There, that isjust what we want. see, it is pointed at the top. is it notcapital?' and the longer he looked at my pilgrim's staff, the moredelighted he became. 'I will lend it to you,' said I, 'but not tokeep.'"'Oh no, we won't keep it!' they all cried. and then they seizedthe skewer, which I gave up to them, and danced with it to the spotwhere the delicate moss grew, and set it up in the middle of thegreen. They wanted a maypole, and the one they now had seemed cutout on purpose for them. Then they decorated it so beautifully that itwas quite dazzling to look at. Little spiders spun golden threadsaround it, and then it was hung with fluttering veils and flags sodelicately white that they glittered like snow in the moonshine. Afterthat they took colors from the butterfly's wing, and sprinkled themover the white drapery which gleamed as if covered with flowers anddiamonds, so that I could not recognize my sausage skewer at all. Sucha maypole had never been seen in all the world as this. Then came agreat company of real elves. Nothing could be finer than theirclothes, and they invited me to be present at the feast. but I wasto keep at a certain distance, because I was too large for them.Then commenced such music that it sounded like a thousand glass bells,and was so full and strong that I thought it must be the song of theswans. I fancied also that I heard the voices of the cuckoo and theblack bird, and it seemed at last as if the whole forest sent forthglorious melodies the voices of children, the tinkling of bells,and the songs of the birds. and all this wonderful melody came fromthe elfin maypole. My sausage peg was a complete peal of bells. Icould scarcely believe that so much could have been produced fromit, till I remembered into what hands it had fallen. I was so muchaffected that I wept tears such as a little mouse can weep, but theywere tears of joy. The night was far too short for me. there are nolong nights there in summer, as we often have in this part of theworld. When the morning dawned, and the gentle breeze rippled theglassy mirror of the forest lake, all the delicate veils and flagsfluttered away into thin air. the waving garlands of the spider's web,the hanging bridges and galleries, or whatever else they may becalled, vanished away as if they had never been. Six elves broughtme back my sausage skewer, and at the same time asked me to make anyrequest, which they would grant if in their power. so I begged them,if they could, to tell me how to make soup from a sausage skewer."'How do we make it?' said the chief of the elves with a smile.'Why you have just seen it. you scarcely knew your sausage skeweragain, I am sure.'"They think themselves very wise, thought I to myself. Then I toldthem all about it, and why I had travelled so far, and also whatpromise had been made at home to the one who should discover themethod of preparing this soup. 'What use will it be,' I asked, 'to themouse king or to our whole mighty kingdom that I have seen all thesebeautiful things? I cannot shake the sausage peg and say, Look, hereis the skewer, and now the soup will come. That would only produce adish to be served when people were keeping a fast.'"Then the elf dipped his finger into the cup of a violet, and saidto me, 'Look here, I will anoint your pilgrim's staff, so that whenyou return to your own home and enter the king's castle, you have onlyto touch the king with your staff, and violets will spring forth andcover the whole of it, even in the coldest winter time. so I think Ihave given you really something to carry home, and a little morethan something.'"But before the little mouse explained what this something morewas, she stretched her staff out to the king, and as it touched himthe most beautiful bunch of violets sprang forth and filled theplace with perfume. The smell was so powerful that the mouse kingordered the mice who stood nearest the chimney to thrust their tailsinto the fire, that there might be a smell of burning, for the perfumeof the violets was overpowering, and not the sort of scent thatevery one liked."But what was the something more of which you spoke just now?"asked the mouse king."Why," answered the little mouse, "I think it is what they call'effect.'" and thereupon she turned the staff round, and behold nota single flower was to be seen upon it! She now only held the nakedskewer, and lifted it up as a conductor lifts his baton at aconcert. "Violets, the elf told me," continued the mouse, "are for thesight, the smell, and the touch. so we have only now to produce theeffect of hearing and tasting." and then, as the little mouse beattime with her staff, there came sounds of music, not such music as washeard in the forest, at the elfin feast, but such as is often heard inthe kitchen the sounds of boiling and roasting. It came quitesuddenly, like wind rushing through the chimneys, and seemed as ifevery pot and kettle were boiling over. The fire shovel clattered downon the brass fender. and then, quite as suddenly, all was still, nothingcould be heard but the light, vapory song of the tea kettle,which was quite wonderful to hear, for no one could rightlydistinguish whether the kettle was just beginning to boil or goingto stop. And the little pot steamed, and the great pot simmered, butwithout any regard for each. indeed there seemed no sense in thepots at all. And as the little mouse waved her baton still morewildly, the pots foamed and threw up bubbles, and boiled over. whileagain the wind roared and whistled through the chimney, and at lastthere was such a terrible hubbub, that the little mouse let herstick fall."That is a strange sort of soup," said the mouse king. "shall wenot now hear about the preparation?""That is all," answered the little mouse, with a bow."That all!" said the mouse king. "then we shall be glad to hearwhat information the next may have to give us."WHAT THE SECOND MOUSE HAD TO TELL"I was born in the library, at a castle," said the second mouse."Very few members of our family ever had the good fortune to getinto the dining room, much less the store room. On my journey, andhere to day, are the only times I have ever seen a kitchen. We wereoften obliged to suffer hunger in the library, but then we gained agreat deal of knowledge. The rumor reached us of the royal prizeoffered to those who should be able to make soup from a sausageskewer. Then my old grandmother sought out a manuscript which,however, she could not read, but had heard it read, and in it waswritten, 'Those who are poets can make soup of sausage skewers.' Shethen asked me if I was a poet. I felt myself quite innocent of anysuch pretensions. Then she said I must go out and make myself apoet. I asked again what I should be required to do, for it seemedto me quite as difficult as to find out how to make soup of asausage skewer. My grandmother had heard a great deal of reading inher day, and she told me three principal qualifications werenecessary understanding, imagination, and feeling. 'If you can manageto acquire these three, you will be a poet, and the sausage skewersoup will be quite easy to you.'"So I went forth into the world, and turned my steps towards thewest, that I might become a poet. Understanding is the mostimportant matter in everything. I knew that, for the two otherqualifications are not thought much of. so I went first to seek forunderstanding. Where was I to find it? 'Go to the ant and learnwisdom,' said the great Jewish king. I knew that from living in alibrary. So I went straight on till I came to the first greatant hill, and then I set myself to watch, that I might become wise.The ants are a very respectable people, they are wisdom itself. Allthey do is like the working of a sum in arithmetic, which comes right.'To work and to lay eggs,' say they, and to provide for posterity,is to live out your time properly.' and that they truly do. They aredivided into the clean and the dirty ants, their rank is pointed outby a number, and the ant queen is number ONE. and her opinion is theonly correct one on everything. she seems to have the whole wisdomof the world in her, which was just the important matter I wished toacquire. She said a great deal which was no doubt very clever. yetto me it sounded like nonsense. She said the ant hill was the loftiestthing in the world, and yet close to the mound stood a tall tree,which no one could deny was loftier, much loftier, but no mentionwas made of the tree. One evening an ant lost herself on this tree.she had crept up the stem, not nearly to the top, but higher thanany ant had ever ventured. and when at last she returned home she saidthat she had found something in her travels much higher than theant hill. The rest of the ants considered this an insult to thewhole community. so she was condemned to wear a muzzle and to livein perpetual solitude. A short time afterwards another ant got onthe tree, and made the same journey and the same discovery, but shespoke of it cautiously and indefinitely, and as she was one of thesuperior ants and very much respected, they believed her, and when shedied they erected an eggshell as a monument to her memory, for theycultivated a great respect for science. I saw," said the little mouse,"that the ants were always running to and fro with her burdens ontheir backs. Once I saw one of them drop her load. she gave herselfa great deal of trouble in trying to raise it again, but she could notsucceed. Then two others came up and tried with all their strengthto help her, till they nearly dropped their own burdens in doing so.then they were obliged to stop for a moment in their help, for everyone must think of himself first. And the ant queen remarked that theirconduct that day showed that they possessed kind hearts and goodunderstanding. 'These two qualities,' she continued, 'place us ants inthe highest degree above all other reasonable beings. Understandingmust therefore be seen among us in the most prominent manner, and mywisdom is greater than all.' And so saying she raised herself on hertwo hind legs, that no one else might be mistaken for her. I could nottherefore make an error, so I ate her up. We are to go to the antsto learn wisdom, and I had got the queen."I now turned and went nearer to the lofty tree already mentioned,which was an oak. It had a tall trunk with a wide spreading top, andwas very old. I knew that a living being dwelt here, a dryad as she iscalled, who is born with the tree and dies with it. I had heard thisin the library, and here was just such a tree, and in it anoak maiden. She uttered a terrible scream when she caught sight ofme so near to her. like many women, she was very much afraid ofmice. And she had more real cause for fear than they have, for I mighthave gnawed through the tree on which her life depended. I spoke toher in a kind and friendly manner, and begged her to take courage.At last she took me up in her delicate hand, and then I told herwhat had brought me out into the world, and she promised me thatperhaps on that very evening she should be able to obtain for me oneof the two treasures for which I was seeking. She told me thatPhantaesus was her very dear friend, that he was as beautiful as thegod of love, that he remained often for many hours with her underthe leafy boughs of the tree which then rustled and waved more thanever over them both. He called her his dryad, she said, and the treehis tree. for the grand old oak, with its gnarled trunk, was just tohis taste. The root, spreading deep into the earth, the top risinghigh in the fresh air, knew the value of the drifted snow, the keenwind, and the warm sunshine, as it ought to be known. 'Yes,' continuedthe dryad, 'the birds sing up above in the branches, and talk toeach other about the beautiful fields they have visited in foreignlands. and on one of the withered boughs a stork has built hisnest, it is beautifully arranged, and besides it is pleasant tohear a little about the land of the pyramids. All this pleasesPhantaesus, but it is not enough for him. I am obliged to relate tohim of my life in the woods. and to go back to my childhood, when Iwas little, and the tree so small and delicate that a stinging nettlecould overshadow it, and I have to tell everything that has happenedsince then till now that the tree is so large and strong. Sit youdown now under the green bindwood and pay attention, when Phantaesuscomes I will find an opportunity to lay hold of his wing and to pullout one of the little feathers. That feather you shall have. abetter was never given to any poet, it will be quite enough for you.'"And when Phantaesus came the feather was plucked, and," saidthe little mouse, "I seized and put it in water, and kept it theretill it was quite soft. It was very heavy and indigestible, but Imanaged to nibble it up at last. It is not so easy to nibble one'sself into a poet, there are so many things to get through. Now,however, I had two of them, understanding and imagination. and throughthese I knew that the third was to be found in the library. A greatman has said and written that there are novels whose sole and only useappeared to be that they might relieve mankind of overflowing tears akind of sponge, in fact, for sucking up feelings and emotions. Iremembered a few of these books, they had always appeared temptingto the appetite. they had been much read, and were so greasy, thatthey must have absorbed no end of emotions in themselves. I retracedmy steps to the library, and literally devoured a whole novel, thatis, properly speaking, the interior or soft part of it. the crust,or binding, I left. When I had digested not only this, but a second, Ifelt a stirring within me. then I ate a small piece of a thirdromance, and felt myself a poet. I said it to myself, and toldothers the same. I had head ache and back ache, and I cannot tell whataches besides. I thought over all the stories that may be said to beconnected with sausage pegs, and all that has ever been writtenabout skewers, and sticks, and staves, and splinters came to mythoughts. the ant queen must have had a wonderfully clearunderstanding. I remembered the man who placed a white stick in hismouth by which he could make himself and the stick invisible. Ithought of sticks as hobby horses, staves of music or rhyme, ofbreaking a stick over a man's back, and heaven knows how many morephrases of the same sort relating to sticks, staves, and skewers.All my thoughts rein on skewers, sticks of wood, and staves. and asI am, at last, a poet, and I have worked terribly hard to makemyself one, I can of course make poetry on anything. I shall thereforebe able to wait upon you every day in the week with a poetical historyof a skewer. And that is my soup.""In that case," said the mouse king, "we will hear what thethird mouse has to say.""Squeak, squeak," cried a little mouse at the kitchen door. it wasthe fourth, and not the third, of the four who were contending for theprize, one whom the rest supposed to be dead. She shot in like anarrow, and overturned the sausage peg that had been covered withcrape. She had been running day and night. She had watched anopportunity to get into a goods train, and had travelled by therailway. and yet she had arrived almost too late. She pressed forward,looking very much ruffled. She had lost her sausage skewer, but nother voice. for she began to speak at once as if they only waited forher, and would hear her only, and as if nothing else in the worldwas of the least consequence. She spoke out so clearly and plainly,and she had come in so suddenly, that no one had time to stop her orto say a word while she was speaking. And now let us hear what shesaid.WHAT THE FOURTH MOUSE, WHO SPOKE BEFORE THE THIRD, HAD TO TELL"I started off at once to the largest town," said she, "but thename of it has escaped me. I have a very bad memory for names. I wascarried from the railway, with some forfeited goods, to the jail,and on arriving I made my escape, and ran into the house of theturnkey. The turnkey was speaking of his prisoners, especially ofone who had uttered thoughtless words. These words had given rise toother words, and at length they were written down and registered: 'Thewhole affair is like making soup of sausage skewers,' said he, 'butthe soup may cost him his neck.'"Now this raised in me an interest for the prisoner," continuedthe little mouse, "and I watched my opportunity, and slipped intohis apartment, for there is a mouse hole to be found behind everyclosed door. The prisoner looked pale. he had a great beard and large,sparkling eyes. There was a lamp burning, but the walls were soblack that they only looked the blacker for it. The prisoner scratchedpictures and verses with white chalk on the black walls, but I did notread the verses. I think he found his confinement wearisome, so that Iwas a welcome guest. He enticed me with bread crumbs, withwhistling, and with gentle words, and seemed so friendly towards me,that by degrees I gained confidence in him, and we became friends.he divided his bread and water with me, gave me cheese and sausage,and I really began to love him. Altogether, I must own that it was avery pleasant intimacy. He let me run about on his hand, and on hisarm, and into his sleeve. and I even crept into his beard, and hecalled me his little friend. I forgot what I had come out into theworld for. forgot my sausage skewer which I had laid in a crack in thefloor it is lying there still. I wished to stay with him always whereI was, for I knew that if I went away the poor prisoner would haveno one to be his friend, which is a sad thing. I stayed, but he didnot. He spoke to me so mournfully for the last time, gave me double asmuch bread and cheese as usual, and kissed his hand to me. Then hewent away, and never came back. I know nothing more of his history."The jailer took possession of me now. He said something aboutsoup from a sausage skewer, but I could not trust him. He took me inhis hand certainly, but it was to place me in a cage like atread mill. Oh how dreadful it was! I had to run round and roundwithout getting any farther in advance, and only to make everybodylaugh. The jailer's grand daughter was a charming little thing. Shehad curly hair like the brightest gold, merry eyes, and such a smilingmouth."'You poor little mouse,' said she, one day as she peeped intomy cage, 'I will set you free.' She then drew forth the ironfastening, and I sprang out on the window sill, and from thence to theroof. Free! free! that was all I could think of. not of the objectof my journey. It grew dark, and as night was coming on I found alodging in an old tower, where dwelt a watchman and an owl. I had noconfidence in either of them, least of all in the owl, which is like acat, and has a great failing, for she eats mice. One may however bemistaken sometimes. and so was I, for this was a respectable andwell educated old owl, who knew more than the watchman, and even asmuch as I did myself. The young owls made a great fuss abouteverything, but the only rough words she would say to them were,'You had better go and make some soup from sausage skewers.' She wasvery indulgent and loving to her children. Her conduct gave me suchconfidence in her, that from the crack where I sat I called out'squeak.' This confidence of mine pleased her so much that she assuredme she would take me under her own protection, and that not a creatureshould do me harm. The fact was, she wickedly meant to keep me inreserve for her own eating in winter, when food would be scarce. Yetshe was a very clever lady owl. she explained to me that thewatchman could only hoot with the horn that hung loose at his side.and then she said he is so terribly proud of it, that he imagineshimself an owl in the tower. wants to do great things, but onlysucceeds in small. all soup on a sausage skewer. Then I begged the owlto give me the recipe for this soup. 'Soup from a sausage skewer,'said she, 'is only a proverb amongst mankind, and may be understood inmany ways. Each believes his own way the best, and after all, theproverb signifies nothing.' 'Nothing!' I exclaimed. I was quitestruck. Truth is not always agreeable, but truth is above everythingelse, as the old owl said. I thought over all this, and saw quiteplainly that if truth was really so far above everything else, it mustbe much more valuable than soup from a sausage skewer. So I hastenedto get away, that I might be home in time, and bring what washighest and best, and above everything namely, the truth. The miceare an enlightened people, and the mouse king is above them all. He istherefore capable of making me queen for the sake of truth.""Your truth is a falsehood," said the mouse who had not yetspoken. "I can prepare the soup, and I mean to do so."HOW IT WAS PREPARED"I did not travel," said the third mouse. "I stayed in this country:that was the right way. One gains nothing by travelling everythingcan be acquired here quite as easily. so I stayed at home. Ihave not obtained what I know from supernatural beings. I haveneither swallowed it, nor learnt it from conversing with owls. Ihave got it all from my reflections and thoughts. Will you now set thekettle on the fire so? Now pour the water in quite full up to thebrim. place it on the fire. make up a good blaze. keep it burning,that the water may boil. it must boil over and over. There, now Ithrow in the skewer. Will the mouse king be pleased now to dip histail into the boiling water, and stir it round with the tail. Thelonger the king stirs it, the stronger the soup will become. Nothingmore is necessary, only to stir it.""Can no one else do this?" asked the king."No," said the mouse. "only in the tail of the mouse king isthis power contained."And the water boiled and bubbled, as the mouse king stood closebeside the kettle. It seemed rather a dangerous performance. but heturned round, and put out his tail, as mice do in a dairy, when theywish to skim the cream from a pan of milk with their tails andafterwards lick it off. But the mouse king's tail had only justtouched the hot steam, when he sprang away from the chimney in a greathurry, exclaiming, "Oh, certainly, by all means, you must be my queen.and we will let the soup question rest till our golden wedding,fifty years hence. so that the poor in my kingdom, who are then tohave plenty of food, will have something to look forward to for a longtime, with great joy."And very soon the wedding took place. But many of the mice, asthey were returning home, said that the soup could not be properlycalled "soup from a sausage skewer," but "soup from a mouse's tail."They acknowledged also that some of the stories were very well told.but that the whole could have been managed differently. "I should havetold it so and so and so." These were the critics who are alwaysso clever afterwards.When this story was circulated all over the world, the opinionsupon it were divided. but the story remained the same. And, after all,the best way in everything you undertake, great as well as small, isto expect no thanks for anything you may do, even when it refers to"soup from a sausage skewer."