(4) Andersen.Many years ago there lived an Emperor who was so fond of new clothesthat he spent all his money on them in order to be beautifully dressed.He did not care about his soldiers, he did not care about the theatre.he only liked to go out walking to show off his new clothes. He had acoat for every hour of the day. and just as they say of a king, 'He isin the council chamber,' they always said here, 'The Emperor is in thewardrobe.'In the great city in which he lived there was always something going on.every day many strangers came there. One day two impostors arrivedwho gave themselves out as weavers, and said that they knew how tomanufacture the most beautiful cloth imaginable. Not only were thetexture and pattern uncommonly beautiful, but the clothes which weremade of the stuff possessed this wonderful property that they wereinvisible to anyone who was not fit for his office, or who wasunpardonably stupid.'Those must indeed be splendid clothes,' thought the Emperor. 'If Ihad them on I could find out which men in my kingdom are unfit for theoffices they hold. I could distinguish the wise from the stupid! Yes,this cloth must be woven for me at once.' And he gave both the impostorsmuch money, so that they might begin their work.They placed two weaving looms, and began to do as if they were working,but they had not the least thing on the looms. They also demanded thefinest silk and the best gold, which they put in their pockets, andworked at the empty looms till late into the night.'I should like very much to know how far they have got on with thecloth,' thought the Emperor. But he remembered when he thought about itthat whoever was stupid or not fit for his office would not be ableto see it. Now he certainly believed that he had nothing to fear forhimself, but he wanted first to send somebody else in order to see howhe stood with regard to his office. Everybody in the whole town knewwhat a wonderful power the cloth had, and they were all curious to seehow bad or how stupid their neighbour was.'I will send my old and honoured minister to the weavers,' thoughtthe Emperor. 'He can judge best what the cloth is like, for he hasintellect, and no one understands his office better than he.'Now the good old minister went into the hall where the two impostors satworking at the empty weaving looms. 'Dear me!' thought the old minister,opening his eyes wide, 'I can see nothing!' But he did not say so.Both the impostors begged him to be so kind as to step closer, and askedhim if it were not a beautiful texture and lovely colours. They pointedto the empty loom, and the poor old minister went forward rubbing hiseyes. but he could see nothing, for there was nothing there.'Dear, dear!' thought he, 'can I be stupid? I have never thought that,and nobody must know it! Can I be not fit for my office? No, I mustcertainly not say that I cannot see the cloth!''Have you nothing to say about it?' asked one of the men who wasweaving.'Oh, it is lovely, most lovely!' answered the old minister, lookingthrough his spectacles. 'What a texture! What colours! Yes, I will tellthe Emperor that it pleases me very much.''Now we are delighted at that,' said both the weavers, and thereuponthey named the colours and explained the make of the texture.The old minister paid great attention, so that he could tell the same tothe Emperor when he came back to him, which he did.The impostors now wanted more money, more silk, and more gold to use intheir weaving. They put it all in their own pockets, and there came nothreads on the loom, but they went on as they had done before, workingat the empty loom. The Emperor soon sent another worthy statesman tosee how the weaving was getting on, and whether the cloth would soonbe finished. It was the same with him as the first one. he looked andlooked, but because there was nothing on the empty loom he could seenothing.'Is it not a beautiful piece of cloth?' asked the two impostors, andthey pointed to and described the splendid material which was not there.'Stupid I am not!' thought the man, 'so it must be my good office forwhich I am not fitted. It is strange, certainly, but no one must beallowed to notice it.' And so he praised the cloth which he did notsee, and expressed to them his delight at the beautiful colours and thesplendid texture. 'Yes, it is quite beautiful,' he said to the Emperor.Everybody in the town was talking of the magnificent cloth.Now the Emperor wanted to see it himself while it was still on theloom. With a great crowd of select followers, amongst whom were boththe worthy statesmen who had already been there before, he went tothe cunning impostors, who were now weaving with all their might, butwithout fibre or thread.'Is it not splendid!' said both the old statesmen who had already beenthere. 'See, your Majesty, what a texture! What colours!' And then theypointed to the empty loom, for they believed that the others could seethe cloth quite well.'What!' thought the Emperor, 'I can see nothing! This is indeedhorrible! Am I stupid? Am I not fit to be Emperor? That were the mostdreadful thing that could happen to me. Oh, it is very beautiful,' hesaid. 'It has my gracious approval.' And then he nodded pleasantly, andexamined the empty loom, for he would not say that he could see nothing.His whole Court round him looked and looked, and saw no more than theothers. but they said like the Emperor, 'Oh! it is beautiful!' And theyadvised him to wear these new and magnificent clothes for the first timeat the great procession which was soon to take place. 'Splendid! Lovely!Most beautiful!' went from mouth to mouth. everyone seemed delightedover them, and the Emperor gave to the impostors the title of Courtweavers to the Emperor.Throughout the whole of the night before the morning on which theprocession was to take place, the impostors were up and were working bythe light of over sixteen candles. The people could see that they werevery busy making the Emperor's new clothes ready. They pretended theywere taking the cloth from the loom, cut with huge scissors in theair, sewed with needles without thread, and then said at last, 'Now theclothes are finished!'The Emperor came himself with his most distinguished knights, and eachimpostor held up his arm just as if he were holding something, and said,'See! here are the breeches! Here is the coat! Here the cloak!' and soon.'Spun clothes are so comfortable that one would imagine one had nothingon at all. but that is the beauty of it!''Yes,' said all the knights, but they could see nothing, for there wasnothing there.'Will it please your Majesty graciously to take off your clothes,' saidthe impostors, 'then we will put on the new clothes, here before themirror.'The Emperor took off all his clothes, and the impostors placedthemselves before him as if they were putting on each part of his newclothes which was ready, and the Emperor turned and bent himself infront of the mirror.'How beautifully they fit! How well they sit!' said everybody. 'Whatmaterial! What colours! It is a gorgeous suit!''They are waiting outside with the canopy which your Majesty is wontto have borne over you in the procession,' announced the Master of theCeremonies.'Look, I am ready,' said the Emperor. 'Doesn't it sit well!' And heturned himself again to the mirror to see if his finery was on allright.The chamberlains who were used to carry the train put their hands nearthe floor as if they were lifting up the train. then they did as if theywere holding something in the air. They would not have it noticed thatthey could see nothing.So the Emperor went along in the procession under the splendid canopy,and all the people in the streets and at the windows said, 'Howmatchless are the Emperor's new clothes! That train fastened to hisdress, how beautifully it hangs!'No one wished it to be noticed that he could see nothing, for then hewould have been unfit for his office, or else very stupid. None of theEmperor's clothes had met with such approval as these had.'But he has nothing on!' said a little child at last.'Just listen to the innocent child!' said the father, and each onewhispered to his neighbour what the child had said.'But he has nothing on!' the whole of the people called out at last.This struck the Emperor, for it seemed to him as if they were right. buthe thought to himself, 'I must go on with the procession now. And thechamberlains walked along still more uprightly, holding up the trainwhich was not there at all.