There once lived a great lord, who was blessed with the birth of adaughter, whom he named Talia. He sent for the wise men and astrologers inhis lands, to predict her future. They met, counseled together, and casther horoscope, and at length they came to the conclusion that she wouldincur great danger from a splinter of flax. Her father therefore forbadethat any flax, hemp, or any other material of that sort be brought intohis house, so that she should escape the predestined danger.One day, when Talia had grown into a young and beautiful lady, she waslooking out of a window, when she beheld passing that way an old woman,who was spinning. Talia, never having seen a distaff or a spindle, waspleased to see the twirling spindle, and she was so curious as to whatthing it was, that she asked the old woman to come to her. Taking thedistaff from her hand, she began to stretch the flax. Unfortunately, Taliaran a splinter of flax under her nail, and she fell dead upon the ground.When the old woman saw this, she became frightened and ran down thestairs, and is running still.As soon as the wretched father heard of the disaster which had takenplace, he had them, after having paid for this tub of sour wine with casksof tears, lay her out in one of his country mansions. There they seatedher on a velvet throne under a canopy of brocade. Wanting to forget alland to drive from his memory his great misfortune, he closed the doors andabandoned forever the house where he had suffered this great loss.After a time, it happened by chance that a king was out hunting andpassed that way. One of his falcons escaped from his hand and flew intothe house by way of one of the windows. It did not come when called, sothe king had one of his party knock at the door, believing the palace tobe inhabited. Although he knocked for a length of time, nobody answered,so the king had them bring a vintner's ladder, for he himself would climbup and search the house, to discover what was inside. Thus he climbed upand entered, and looked in all the rooms, and nooks, and corners, and wasamazed to find no living person there. At last he came to the salon, andwhen the king beheld Talia, who seemed to be enchanted, he believed thatshe was asleep, and he called her, but she remained unconscious. Cryingaloud, he beheld her charms and felt his blood course hotly through hisveins. He lifted her in his arms, and carried her to a bed, where hegathered the first fruits of love. Leaving her on the bed, he returned tohis own kingdom, where, in the pressing business of his realm, he for atime thought no more about this incident.Now after nine months Talia delivered two beautiful children, one a boyand the other a girl. In them could be seen two rare jewels, and they wereattended by two fairies, who came to that palace, and put them at theirmother's breasts. Once, however, they sought the nipple, and not findingit, began to suck on Talia's fingers, and they sucked so much that thesplinter of flax came out. Talia awoke as if from a long sleep, and seeingbeside her two priceless gems, she held them to her breast, and gave themthe nipple to suck, and the babies were dearer to her than her own life.Finding herself alone in that palace with two children by her side, shedid not know what had happened to her. but she did notice that the tablewas set, and food and drink were brought in to her, although she did notsee any attendants.In the meanwhile the king remembered Talia, and saying that he wantedto go hunting, he returned to the palace, and found her awake, and withtwo cupids of beauty. He was overjoyed, and he told Talia who he was, andhow he had seen her, and what had taken place. When she heard this, theirfriendship was knitted with tighter bonds, and he remained with her for afew days. After that time he bade her farewell, and promised to returnsoon, and take her with him to his kingdom. And he went to his realm, buthe could not find any rest, and at all hours he had in his mouth the namesof Talia, and of Sun and Moon (those were the two children's names), andwhen he took his rest, he called either one or other of them.Now the king's wife began to suspect that something was wrong from thedelay of her husband while hunting, and hearing him name continuallyTalia, Sun, and Moon, she became hot with another kind of heat than thesun's. Sending for the secretary, she said to him, "Listen to me, my son,you are living between two rocks, between the post and the door, betweenthe poker and the grate. If you will tell me with whom the king yourmaster, and my husband, is in love, I will give you treasures untold. andif you hide the truth from me, you will never be found again, dead oralive." The man was terribly frightened. Greed and fear blinded his eyesto all honor and to all sense of justice, and he related to her allthings, calling bread bread, and wine wine.The queen, hearing how matters stood, sent the secretary to Talia, inthe name of the king, asking her to send the children, for he wished tosee them. Talia, with great joy, did as she was commanded. Then the queen,with a heart of Medea, told the cook to kill them, and to make them intoseveral tasteful dishes for her wretched husband. But the cook was tenderhearted and, seeing these two beautiful golden apples, felt pity andcompassion for them, and he carried them home to his wife, and had herhide them. In their place he prepared two lambs into a hundred differentdishes. When the king came, the queen, with great pleasure, had the foodserved.The king ate with delight, saying, "By the life of Lanfusa, howtasteful this is". or, "By the soul of my ancestors, this is good."Each time she replied, "Eat, eat, you are eating of your own."For two or three times the king paid no attention to this repetition,but at last seeing that the music continued, he answered, "I knowperfectly well that I am eating of my own, because you have broughtnothing into this house". and growing angry, he got up and went to a villaat some distance from his palace, to solace his soul and alleviate hisanger.In the meanwhile the queen, not being satisfied of the evil alreadydone, sent for the secretary and told him to go to the palace and to bringTalia back, saying that the king longed for her presence and was expectingher. Talia departed as soon as she heard these words, believing that shewas following the commands of her lord, for she greatly longed to see herlight and joy, knowing not what was preparing for her. She was met by thequeen, whose face glowed from the fierce fire burning inside her, andlooked like the face of Nero.She addressed her thus, "Welcome, Madam Busybody! You are a fine pieceof goods, you ill weed, who are enjoying my husband. So you are the lumpof filth, the cruel bitch, that has caused my head to spin? Change yourways, for you are welcome in purgatory, where I will compensate you forall the damage you have done to me."Talia, hearing these words, began to excuse herself, saying that it wasnot her fault, because the king her husband had taken possession of herterritory when she was drowned in sleep. but the queen would not listen toher excuses, and had a large fire lit in the courtyard of the palace, andcommanded that Talia should be cast into it.The lady, perceiving that matters had taken a bad turn, knelt beforethe queen, and begged her to allow her at least to take off the garmentsshe wore. The queen, not for pity of the unhappy lady, but to gain alsothose robes, which were embroidered with gold and pearls, told her toundress, saying, "You can take off your clothes. I agree." Talia began totake them off, and with every item that she removed she uttered a loudscream. Having taken off her robe, her skirt, the bodice, and her shift,she was on the point of removing her last garment, when she uttered a lastscream louder than the rest. They dragged her towards the pile, to reduceher to lye ashes which would be used to wash Charon's breeches.The king suddenly appeared, and finding this spectacle, demanded toknow what was happening. He asked for his children, and his wife  reproaching him for his treachery   told him that she had had themslaughtered and served to him as meat. When the wretched king heard this,he gave himself up to despair, saying, "Alas! Then I, myself, am the wolfof my own sweet lambs. Alas! And why did these my veins know not thefountains of their own blood? You renegade bitch, what evil deed is thiswhich you have done? Begone, you shall get your desert as the stumps, andI will not send such a tyrant faced one to the Colosseum to do herpenance!"So saying, he commanded that the queen should be cast into the firewhich she had prepared for Talia, and the secretary with her, because hehad been the handle for this bitter play, and weaver of this wicked plot.He was going to do the same with the cook, whom he believed to be theslaughterer of his children, when the man cast himself at his feet,saying, "In truth, my lord, for such a deed, there should be nothing elsethan a pile of living fire, and no other help than a spear from behind,and no other entertainment than twisting and turning within the blazingfire, and I should seek no other honor than to have my ashes, the ashes ofa cook, mixed up with the queen's. But this is not the reward that Iexpect for having saved the children, in spite of the gall of that bitch,who wanted to kill them and to return to your body that which was of yourown body."Hearing these words, the king was beside himself. He thought he wasdreaming, and he could not believe what his own ears had heard. Therefore,turning to the cook, he said, "If it is true that you have saved mychildren, be sure that I will take you away from turning the spit, and Iwill put you in the kitchen of this breast, to turn and twist as you likeall my desires, giving you such a reward as shall enable you to callyourself a happy man in this world."While the king spoke these words, the cook's wife, seeing her husband'sneed, brought forth the two children, Sun and Moon, before their father.And he never tired at playing the game of three with his wife andchildren, making a mill wheel of kisses, now with one and then with theother. He gave a generous reward to the cook, he made him a chamberlain.He married Talia to wife. and she enjoyed a long life with her husband andher children, thus experiencing the truth of the proverb:Those whom fortune favorsFind good luck even in their sleep.