Know, O Commander of the Faithful, that I had a father who, afterfulfilling his time, deceased and left me great store of wealth.I remained single for a short time and presently married one ofthe richest of his day. I abode with him a year when he alsodied, and my share of his property amounted to eighty thousanddiners in gold according to the holy law of inheritance.Thus I became passing rich an my reputation spread far and wide,for I had made me ten changes of raiment, each worth a thousanddiners One day as I was sitting at home, behold, there came in tome an old woman with lantern jaws and cheeks sucked in,and eyes rucked up, and eyebrows scant and scald, and head bareand bald. and teeth broken by time and mauled, and back bendingand neck nape nodding, and face blotched, and rheum running, andhair like a snake black and white speckled, in complexion a veryfright, even as saith the poet of the like of her: Ill omened hag! unshriven be her sins Nor mercy visit her ondying bed:Thousand head strongest he mules would her guiles, Despitetheir bolting lead with spider thread.And as saith another: A hag to whom th' unlawful lawfullest And witchcraft wisdom inher sight are grown:A mischief making brat, a demon maid, A whorish woman and apimping crone.When the old woman entered she salamed to me and kissing theground before me, said, "I have at home an orphan daughter andthis night are her wedding and her displaying. We be poorfolks and strangers in this city knowing none inhabitant and weare broken hearted. So do thou earn for thyself a recompense anda reward in Heaven by being present at her displaying and, whenthe ladies of this city shall hear that thou art to make act ofpresence, they also will present themselves. so shalt thoucomfort her affliction, for she is sore bruised in spirit and shehath none to look to save Allah the Most High." Then she wept andkissed my feet reciting these couplets: "Thy presence bringeth us a grace We own before thy winsomeface:And wert thou absent ne'er an one Could stand in stead or takethy place."So pity get hold on me and compassion and I said, "Hearing isconsenting and, please Allah, I will do somewhat more for her.nor shall she be shown to her bridegroom save in my raiment andornaments and jewelry." At this the old woman rejoiced and bowedher head to my feet and kissed them, saying, "Allah requite theeweal, and comfort thy heart even as thou hast comforted mine!But, O my lady, do not trouble thyself to do me this service atthis hour. be thou ready by supper time, when I will comeand fetch thee." So saying she kissed my hand and went her ways.I set about stringing my pearls and donning my brocades andmaking my toilette. Little recking what Fortune had in womb forme, when suddenly the old woman stood before me, simpering andsmiling till she showed every tooth stump, and quoth she, "O mymistress, the city madams have arrived and when I apprized themthat thou promisedst to be present, they were glad and they arenow awaiting thee and looking eagerly for thy coming and for thehonour of meeting thee." So I threw on my mantilla and, makingthe old crone walk before me and my handmaidens behind me, Ifared till we came to a street well watered and swept neat, wherethe winnowing breeze blew cool and sweet. Here we were stopped bya gate arched over with a dome of marble stone firmly seated onsolidest foundation, and leading to a Palace whose walls fromearth rose tall and proud, and whose pinnacle was crowned by theclouds, and over the doorway were writ these couplets: I am the wone where Mirth shall ever smile. The home ofJoyance through my lasting while:And 'mid my court a fountain jets and flows, Nor tears nortroubles shall that fount defile:The merge with royal Nu'uman's bloom is dight,Myrtle, Narcissus flower and Chamomile.Arrived at the gate, before which hung a black curtain, the oldwoman knocked and it was opened to us. when we entered and founda vestibule spread with carpets and hung around with lamps allalight and wax candles in candelabra adorned with pendants ofprecious gems and noble ores. We passed on through this passagetill we entered a saloon, whose like for grandeur and beauty isnot to be found in this world. It was hung and carpeted withsilken stuffs, and was illuminated with branches sconces andtapers ranged in double row, an avenue abutting on the upper ornoble end of the saloon, where stood a couch of juniper woodencrusted with pearls and gems and surmounted by a baldaquin withmosquito curtains of satin looped up with margaritas. And hardlyhad we taken note of this when there came forth from thebaldaquin a young lady and I looked, O Commander of the Faithful,upon a face and form more perfect than the moon when fullest,with a favour brighter than the dawn gleaming with saffron huedlight, even as the poet sang when he said Thou pacest the palace a marvel sight, A bride for a Kisra's orKaisar's night!Wantons the rose on thy roseate cheek, O cheek as the blood ofthe dragon bright!Slim waisted, languorous, sleepy eyed, With charms whichpromise all loveAnd the tire which attires thy tiara'd brow Is a night of woeon a morn's glad light.The fair young girl came down from the estrade and said to me,"Welcome and well come and good cheer to my sister, the dearlybeloved, the illustrious, and a thousand greetings!" Then sherecited these couplets: "An but the house could know who cometh 'twould rejoice, Andkiss the very dust whereon thy foot was placedAnd with the tongue of circumstance the walls would say,"Welcome and hail to one with generous gifts engraced!"Then sat she down and said to me, "O my sister, I have a brotherwho hath had sight of thee at sundry wedding feasts and festiveseasons: he is a youth handsomer than I, and he hath fallendesperately in love with thee, for that bounteous Destiny hathgarnered in thee all beauty and perfection. and he hath givensilver to this old woman that she might visit thee. and she hathcontrived on this wise to foregather us twain. He hath heard thatthou art one of the nobles of thy tribe nor is he aught less inhis. and, being desirous to ally his lot with thy lot, he hathpracticed this device to bring me in company with thee. for he isfain to marry thee after the ordinance of Allah and his Apostle.and in what is lawful and right there is no shame." When I heardthese words and saw myself fairly entrapped in the house, I said,"Hearing is consenting." She was delighted at this and clappedher hands. whereupon a door opened and out of it came ayoung man blooming in the prime of life, exquisitely dressed, amodel of beauty and loveliness and symmetry and perfect grace,with gentle winning manners and eyebrows like a bended bow andshaft on cord, and eyes which bewitched all hearts with sorcerylawful in the sight of the Lord. even as saith some rhymerdescribing the like of him: His face as the face of the young moon shines And Fortunestamps him with pearls for signs.And Allah favour him who said: Blest be his beauty. blest the Lord's decree Who cast andshaped a thing so bright of blee:All gifts of beauty he conjoins in one. Lost in his love is allhumanity.For Beauty's self inscribed on his brow "I testify there be noGood but he!"When I looked at him my heart inclined to him and I loved him.and he sat by my side and talked with me a while, when the younglady again clapped her hands and behold, a side door opened andout of it came the Kazi with his four assessors as witnesses. andthey saluted us and, sitting down, drew up and wrote out themarriage contract between me and the youth and retired. Then heturned to me and said, "Be our night blessed," presently adding,"O my lady, I have a condition to lay on thee." Quoth I, "O mylord, what is that?" Whereupon he arose and fetching a copy ofthe Holy Book presented it to me saying "Swear hereon thou wiltnever look at any other than myself nor incline thy body or thyheart to him." I swore readily enough to this and he joyed withexceeding joy and embraced me round the neck while love for himpossessed my whole heart. Then they set the table beforeus and we ate and drank till we were satisfied, but I was dyingfor the coming of the night. And when night did come he led me tothe bride chamber and slept with me on the bed and continued tokiss and embrace me till the morning such a night I had neverseen in my dreams. I lived with him a life of happiness anddelight for a full month, at the end of which I asked hisleave to go on foot to the bazar and buy me certainespecial stuffs and he gave me permission. So I donned mymantilla and, taking with me the old woman and aslave girl, I went to the khan of the silk mercers, whereI seated myself in the shop front of a young merchant whom theold woman recommended, saying to me, "This youth's father diedwhen he was a boy and left him great store of wealth: he hath byhim a mighty fine stock of goods and thou wilt find whatthou seekest with him, for none in the bazar hath better stuffsthan he. Then she said to him, "Show this lady the most costlystuffs thou hast by thee." and he replied, "Hearkening andobedience!" Then she whispered me, "Say a civil word to him!".but I replied, "I am pledged to address no man save my lord. Andas she began to sound his praise I said sharply to her, We wantnought of thy sweet speeches. our wish is to buy of himwhatsoever we need, and return home." So he brought me all Isought and I offered him his money, but he refused to take itsaying, "Let it be a gift offered to my guest this day!" Thenquoth I to the old woman, "If he will not take the money, givehim back his stuff." "By Allah," cried he, "not a thing will Itake from thee: I sell it not for gold or for silver, but I giveit all as a gift for a single kiss. a kiss more precious to methan everything the shop containeth." Asked the old woman, "Whatwill the kiss profit thee?". and, turning to me, whispered, "O mydaughter, thou hearest what this young fellow saith? What harmwill it do thee if he get a kiss from thee and thou gettest whatthou seekest at that price?" Replied I, "I take refuge with Allahfrom such action! Knowest thou not that I am bound by anoath?'' But she answered, "Now whist! just let him kissthee and neither speak to him nor lean over him, so shalt thoukeep thine oath and thy silver, and no harm whatever shall befalthee." And she ceased not to persuade me and importune me andmake light of the matter till evil entered into my mind and I putmy head in the poke and, declaring I would ne'er consent,consented. So I veiled my eyes and held up the edge of mymantilla between me and the people passing and he put his mouthto my cheek under the veil. But while kissing me he bit me sohard a bite that it tore the flesh from my cheek, andblood flowed fast and faintness came over me. The old womancaught me in her arms and, when I came to myself, I found theshop shut up and her sorrowing over me and saying, "Thank Allahfor averting what might have been worse!" Then she said to me,"Come, take heart and let us go home before the matter becomepublic and thou be dishonoured. And when thou art safe inside thehouse feign sickness and lie down and cover thyself up. and Iwill bring thee powders and plasters to cure this bite withal,and thy wound will be healed at the latest in three days." Soafter a while I arose and I was in extreme distress and terrorcame full upon me. but I went on little by little till I reachedthe house when I pleaded illness and lay me down. When it wasnight my husband came in to me and said, "What hath befallenthee, O my darling, in this excursion of thine?". and I replied,"I am not well: my head acheth badly." Then he lighted a candleand drew near me and looked hard at me and asked, "What is thatwound I see on thy cheek and in the tenderest part too?" And Ianswered, When I went out to day with thy leave to buy stuffs, acamel laden with firewood jostled me and one of the pieces toremy veil and wounded my cheek as thou seest. for indeed the waysof this city are strait." "Tomorrow," cried he, "I will gocomplain to the Governor, so shall he gibbet every fuel seller inBaghdad." "Allah upon thee," said I, "burden not thy soul withsuch sin against any man. The fact is I was riding on an ass andit stumbled, throwing me to the ground. and my cheek lighted upona stick or a bit of glass and got this wound." "Then," said he,"tomorrow I will go up to Ja'afar the Barmaki and tell him thestory, so shall he kill every donkey boy in Baghdad." "Wouldstthou destroy all these men because of my wound," said I, "whenthis which befel me was by decree of Allah and His destiny?" Buthe answered, "There is no help for it." and, springing to hisfeet, plied me with words and pressed me till I was perplexed andfrightened. and I stuttered and stammered and my speech waxedthick and I said, "This is a mere accident by decree of Allah."Then, O Commander of the Faithful, he guessed my case and said,"Thou hast been false to thine oath." He at once cried out with aloud cry, whereupon a door opened and in came seven black slaveswhom he commanded to drag me from my bed and throw me down in themiddle of the room. Furthermore, he ordered one of them to pinionmy elbows and squat upon my head. and a second to sit upon myknees and secure my feet. and drawing his sword he gave it to athird and said, "Strike her, O Sa'ad, and cut her in twain andlet each one take half and cast it into the Tigris thatthe fish may eat her. for such is the retribution due to thosewho violate their vows and are unfaithful to their love." And heredoubled in wrath and recited these couplets: "An there be one who shares with me her love, I'd strangle Lovetho' life by Love were slainSaying, O Soul, Death were the nobler choice, For ill is Lovewhen shared 'twixt partners twain."Then he repeated to the slave, "Smite her, O Sa'ad!" And when theslave who was sitting upon me made sure of the command he bentdown to me and said, "O my mistress, repeat the profession ofFaith and bethink thee if there be any thing thou wouldst havedone. for verily this is the last hour of thy life." "O goodslave," said I, "wait but a little while and get off my head thatI may charge thee with my last injunctions." Then I raised myhead and saw the state I was in, how I had fallen from highdegree into lowest disgrace. and into death after life (and suchlife!) and how I had brought my punishment on myself by my ownsin. where upon the tears streamed from mine eyes and I wept withexceed ing weeping. But he looked on me with eyes of wrath, andbegan repeating: "Tell her who turneth from our love to work it injury sore, Andtaketh her a fine new love the old love tossing o'er:We cry enough o' thee ere thou enough of us shalt cry! Whatpast between us cloth suffice and haply somethingmore."When I heard this, O Commander of the Faithful, I wept and lookedat him and began repeating these couplets: "To severance you doom my love and all unmoved remain. Mytear sore lids you sleepless make and sleep while Icomplain:You make firm friendship reign between mine eyes andinsomny. Yet can my heart forget you not, nor tears can Irestrain:You made me swear with many an oath my troth to hold for aye.But when you reigned my bosom's lord you wrought me traitorbane:I loved you like a silly child who wots not what is Love. Thenspare the learner, let her not be by the master slain!By Allah's name I pray you write, when I am dead and gone,Upon my tomb, This died of Love whose senses Love had ta'en:Then haply one shall pass that way who fire of Love hath felt,And treading on a lover's heart with ruth and woe shallmelt."When I ended my verses tears came again. but the poetry and theweeping only added fury to his fury, and he recited: "'Twas not satiety bade me leave the dearling of my soul, Butthat she sinned a mortal sin which clips me in its clip:She sought to let another share the love between us twain, Butmy True Faith of Unity refuseth partnership."When he ceased reciting I wept again and prayed his pardon andhumbled myself before him and spoke him softly, saying to myself,"I will work on him with words. so haply he will refrain fromslaying me, even though he take all I have." So I complained ofmy sufferings and began to repeat these couplets: "Now, by thy life and wert thou just my life thou hadst notta'en, But who can break the severance law which partethlovers twain!Thou loadest me with heavy weight of longing love, when I Canhardly bear my chemisette for weakness and for pain:I marvel not to see my life and soul in ruin lain: I marvelmuch to see my frame such severance pangs sustain."When I ended my verse I wept again. and he looked at me andreviled me in abusive language, repeating thesecouplets: "Thou wast all taken up with love of other man, not me. 'Twasthine to show me severance face, ''twas only mine to see:I'll leave thee for that first thou wert of me to take thy leaveAnd patient bear that parting blow thou borest sopatiently:E'en as thou soughtest other love, so other love I'll seek, Andmake the crime of murdering love thine own atrocity."When he had ended his verses he again cried out to the slave,"Cut her in half and free us from her, for we have no profit ofher. So the slave drew near me, O Commander of the Faithful and Iceased bandying verses and made sure of death and, despairing oflife, committed my affairs to Almighty Allah, when behold, theold woman rushed in and threw herself at my husband's feet andkissed them and wept and said, "O my son, by the rights of myfosterage and by my long service to thee, I conjure thee pardonthis young lady, for indeed she hath done nothing deserving suchdoom. Thou art a very young man and I fear lest her death be laidat thy door. for it is said: Whoso slayeth shall be slain. Asfor this wanton (since thou deemest her such) drive her out fromthy doors, from thy love and from thy heart." And she ceased notto weep and importune him till he relented and said, 'I pardonher, but needs must I set on her my mark which shall show uponher all my life." Then he bade the slaves drag me along theground and lay me out at full length, after stripping me of allmy clothes. and when the slaves had so sat upon me that Icould not move, he fetched in a rod of quince tree and came downwith it upon my body, and continued beating me on the back andsides till I lost consciousness from excess of pain, and Idespaired of life. Then he commanded the slaves to take me awayas soon as it was dark, together with the old woman to show themthe way and throw me upon the floor of the house wherein I dweltbefore my marriage. They did their lord's bidding and cast medown in my old home and went their ways. I did not revive from myswoon till dawn appeared, when I applied myself to the dressingof my wounds with ointments and other medicaments. and Imedicined myself, but my sides and ribs still showed signs of therod as thou hast seen. I lay in weakly case and confined to mybed for four months before I was able to rise and health returnedto me. At the end of that time I went to the house where all thishad happened and found it a ruin. the street had been pulled downendlong and rubbish heaps rose where the building erst was. norcould I learn how this had come about. Then I betook myself tothis my sister on my father's side and found her with these twoblack bitches. I saluted her and told her what had betided me andthe whole of my story and she said, "O my sister, who is safefrom the despite of Time and secure? Thanks be to Allah who hasbrought thee off safely." and she began to say: "Such is the World, so bear a patient heart When riches leavethee and when friends depart!"Then she told me her own story, and what had happened to her withher two sisters and how matters had ended. so we abode togetherand the subject of marriage was never on our tongues for allthese years. After a while we were joined by our other sister,the procuratrix, who goeth out every morning and buyeth all werequire for the day and night. and we continued in such conditiontill this last night. In the morning our sister went out, asusual, to make her market and then befel us what befel frombringing the Porter into the house and admitting these threeKalandar men., We entreated them kindly and honourably and aquarter of the night had not passed ere three grave andrespectable merchants from Mosul joined us and told us theiradventures. We sat talking with them but on one condition whichthey violated, whereupon we treated them as sorted with theirbreach of promise, and made them repeat the account they hadgiven of themselves. They did our bidding and we forgave theiroffence. so they departed from us and this morning we wereunexpectedly summoned to thy presence. And such is our story! TheCaliph wondered at her words and bade the tale be recorded andchronicled and laid up in his muniment chambers. And Shahrazadperceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.When it was the Nineteenth Night,She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that theCaliph commanded this story and those of the sister and theKalandars to be recorded in the archives and be set in the royalmuniment chambers. Then he asked the eldest lady, the mistress ofthe house, "Knowest thou the whereabouts of the Ifritah whospelled thy sisters?". and she answered, "O Commander of theFaithful, she gave me a ringlet of her hair saying:  Whenas thouwouldest see me, burn a couple of these hairs and I will be withthee forthright, even though I were beyond Caucasus mountain."Quoth the Caliph, "Bring me hither the hair." So she brought itand he threw the whole lock upon the fire. As soon as the odour ofthe burning hair dispread itself, the palace shook and trembled,and all present heard a rumbling and rolling of thunder and anoise as of wings and lo! the Jinniyah who had been a serpentstood in the Caliph's presence. Now she was a Moslemah, so shesaluted him and said, "Peace be with thee O Vicar ofAllah." whereto he replied, "And with thee also be peace and themercy of Allah and His blessing." Then she continued, "Know thatthis damsel sowed for me the seed of kindness, wherefor I cannotenough requite her, in that she delivered me from death anddestroyed mine enemy. Now I had seen how her sisters dealt withher and felt myself bound to avenge her on them. At first I wasminded to slay them, but I feared it would be grievous to her, soI transformed them to bitches. but if thou desire their release,O Commander of the Faithful, I will release them to pleasure theeand her for I am of the Moslems." Quoth the Caliph, "Release themand after we will look into the affair of the beaten lady andconsider her case carefully. and if the truth of her story beevidenced I will exact retaliation from him who wrongedher." Said the Ifritah, "O Commander of the Faithful, I willforthwith release them and will discover to thee the man who didthat deed by this lady and wronged her and took her property, andhe is the nearest of all men to thee!" So saying she took a cupof water and muttered a spell over it and uttered words there wasno understanding. then she sprinkled some of the water over thefaces of the two bitches, saying, "Return to your former humanshape!" whereupon they were restored to their natural forms andfell to praising their Creator. Then said the Ifritah, "OCommander of the Faithful, of a truth he who scourged this ladywith rods is thy son Al Amin brother of Al Maamun . forhe had heard of her beauty and love liness and he played alover's stratagem with her and married her according to the lawand committed the crime (such as it is) of scourging her. Yetindeed he is not to be blamed for beating her, for he laid acondition on her and swore her by a solemn oath not to do acertain thing. however, she was false to her vow and he wasminded to put her to death, but he feared Almighty Allah andcontented himself with scourging her, as thou hast seen, and withsending her back to her own place. Such is the story of thesecond lady and the Lord knoweth all." When the Caliph heardthese words of the Ifritah, and knew who had beaten the damsel,he marvelled with mighty marvel and said, "Praise be to Allah,the Most High, the Almighty, who hath shown his exceeding mercytowards me, enabling me to deliver these two damsels from sorceryand torture, and vouchsafing to let me know the secret of thislady's history! And now by Allah, we will do a deed which shallbe recorded of us after we are no more." Then he summoned his sonAl Amin and questioned him of the story of the second lady, theportress. and he told it in the face of truth. whereupon theCaliph bade call into presence the Kazis and their witnesses andthe three Kalandars and the first lady with her sisters germanwho had been ensorcelled. and he married the three to the threeKalandars whom he knew to be princes and sons of Kings and heappointed them chamberlains about his person, assigning to themstipends and allowances and all that they required, and lodgingthem in his palace at Baghdad. He returned the beaten lady to hisson, Al Amin, renewing the marriage contract between them andgave her great wealth and bade rebuild the house fairer than itwas before. As for himself he took to wife the procuratrix andlay with her that night: and next day he set apart for her anapartment in his Serraglio, with handmaidens for her service anda fixed daily allowance. And the people marvelled at theirCaliph's generosity and natural beneficence and princely widsom.nor did he forget to send all these histories to be recorded inhis annals. When Shahrazad ceased speaking Dunyazad exclaimed, "Omy own sister, by Allah in very sooth this is a right pleasanttale and a delectable. never was heard the like of it, butprithee tell me now another story to while away what yetremaineth of the waking hours of this our night." She replied,"With love and gladness if the King give me leave." and he said,"Tell thy tale and tell it quickly." So she began, in thesewords,