Right marvellous was a matter which came to pass to me in myyouth. I lived in Damascus of Syria studying my art and, one day,as I was sitting at home behold, there came to me a Mameluke fromthe household of the Sahib and said to me, "Speak with my lord!"So I followed him to the Viceroy's house and, entering the greathall, saw at its head a couch of cedar plated with gold whereonlay a sickly youth beautiful withal. fairer than he one could notsee. I sat down by his head and prayed to Heaven for a cure. andhe made me a sign with his eyes, so I said to him, "O my lord!favour me with thy hand, and safety be with thee!" Thenhe put forth his left hand and I marvelled thereat and said, "ByAllah, strange that this handsome youth, the son of a greathouse, should so lack good manners. This can be nothing but prideand conceit!" However I felt his pulse and wrote him aprescription and continued to visit him for ten days, at the endof which time he recovered and went to the Hammam,whereupon the Viceroy gave me a handsome dress of honour andappointed me superintendent of the hospital which is inDamascus. I accompanied him to the baths, the whole ofwhich they had kept private for his accommodation. and theservants came in with him and took off his clothes within thebath, and when he was stripped I saw that his right hand had beennewly cut off, and this was the cause of his weakliness. At this Iwas amazed and grieved for him: then, looking at his body, I sawon it the scars of scourge stripes whereto he had appliedunguents. I was troubled at the sight and my concern appeared inmy face. The young man looked at me and, comprehending thematter, said, "O Physician of the age, marvel not at my case. Iwill tell thee my story as soon as we quit the baths." Then wewashed and, returning to his house, ate somewhat of food and tookrest awhile. after which he asked me, "What sayest thou tosolacing thee by inspecting the supper hall?". and I answered "Solet it be." Thereupon he ordered the slaves to carry out thecarpets and cushions required and roast a lamb and bring us somefruit. They did his bidding and we ate together, he using theleft hand for the purpose. After a while I said to him, "Now tellme thy tale." "O Physician of the age," replied he, "hear whatbefell me. Know that I am of the sons of Mosul, where mygrandfather died leaving nine children of whom my father was theeldest. All grew up and took to them wives, but none of them wasblessed with offspring except my father, to whom Providencevouchsafed me. So I grew up amongst my uncles who rejoiced in mewith exceeding joy, till I came to man's estate. One day whichhappened to be a Friday, I went to the Cathedral mosque of Mosulwith my father and my uncles, and we prayed the congregationalprayers, after which the folk went forth, except my father anduncles, who sat talking of wondrous things in foreign parts andthe marvellous sights of strange cities. At last they mentionedEgypt, and one of my uncles said, "Travellers tell us that thereis not on earth's face aught fairer than Cairo and her Nile." andthese words made me long to see Cairo. Quoth my father, "Whosohath not seen Cairo hath not seen the world. Her dust is goldenand her Nile a miracle holden. and her women are as Houris fair.puppets, beautiful pictures. her houses are palaces rare. herwater is sweet and light and her mud a commodity and amedicine beyond compare, even as said the poet in this hispoetry: The Nile flood this day is the gain you own. You alonein such gain and bounties wone:The Nile is my tear flood of severance, And here none isforlorn but I alone.Moreover temperate is her air, and with fragrance blent, Whichsurpasseth aloes wood in scent. and how should it be otherwise,she being the Mother of the World? And Allah favour him who wrotethese lines: An I quit Cairo and her pleasaunces, Where can I wend to findso gladsome ways?Shall I desert that site, whose grateful scents Joy every souland call for loudest praise?Where every palace, as another Eden, Carpets and cushionsrichly wrought displays.A city wooing sight and sprite to glee, Where Saint meetsSinner and each 'joys his craze.Where friend meets friend, by Providence united In greenygarden and in palmy maze:People of Cairo, and by Allah's doom I fare, with you inthoughts I wone always!Whisper not Cairo in the ear of Zephyr, Lest for her like ofgarden scents he reave her,And if your eyes saw her earth, and the adornment thereof withbloom, and the purfling of it with all manner blossoms, and theislands of the Nile and how much is therein of wide spread andgoodly prospect, and if you bent your sight upon the AbyssinianPond, your glance would not revert from the scene quit ofwonder. for nowhere would you behold the fellow of that lovelyview. and, indeed, the two arms of the Nile embrace mostluxuriant verdure, as the white of the eye encompassethits black or like filigreed silver surrounding chrysolites. Anddivinely gifted was the poet who there anent said thesecouplets: By th' Abyssinian Pond, O day divine! In morning twilight andin sunny shine:The water prisoned in its verdurous walls, Like sabre flashesbefore shrinking eyne:And in The Garden sat we while it drains Slow draught, withpurfled sides dyed finest fine:The stream is rippled by the hands of clouds. We too,a rippling, on our rugs recline,Passing pure wine, and whoso leaves us there Shall ne'er arisefrom fall his woes design:Draining long draughts from large and brimming bowls,Administ'ring thirst's only medicine wine.And what is there to compare with the Rasad, the Observatory, andits charms whereof every viewer as he approacheth saith, 'Verilythis spot is specialised with all manner of excellence!' And ifthou speak of the Night of Nile full, give the rainbowand distribute it! And if thou behold The Garden ateventide, with the cool shades sloping far and wide, a marvelthou wouldst see and wouldst incline to Egypt in ecstasy. Andwert thou by Cairo's river side, when the sun is sinkingand the stream dons mail coat and habergeon over itsother vestments, thou wouldst be quickened to new life by itsgentle zephyrs and by its all sufficient shade." So spake he andthe rest fell to describing Egypt and her Nile. As I heard theiraccounts, my thoughts dwelt upon the subject and when, aftertalking their fill, all arose and went their ways, I lay down tosleep that night, but sleep came not because of my violentlonging for Egypt. and neither meat pleased me nor drink. After afew days my uncles equipped themselves for a trade journey toEgypt. and I wept before my father till he made ready for mefitting merchandise, and he consented to my going with them,saying however, "Let him not enter Cairo, but leave him to sellhis wares at Damascus." So I took leave of my father and we faredforth from Mosul and gave not over travelling till we reachedAleppo where we halted certain days. Then we marchedonwards till we made Damascus and we found her a city as thoughshe were a Paradise, abounding in trees and streams and birds andfruits of all kinds. We alighted at one of the Khans, where myuncles tarried awhile selling and buying. and they bought andsold also on my account, each dirham turning a profit of five onprime cost, which pleased me mightily. After this they left mealone and set their faces Egyptwards. whilst I abode at Damascus,where I had hired from a jeweller, for two dinars a month, amansion whose beauties would beggar the tongue. Here Iremained, eating and drinking and spending what monies I had inhand till, one day, as I was sitting at the door of my house behold, there came up a young lady clad in costliest raiment neversaw my eyes richer. I winked(FN5886 at her and she steppedinside without hesitation and stood within. I entered with herand shut the door upon myself and her. whereupon she raised herface veil and threw off her mantilla, when I found her like apictured moon of rare and marvellous loveliness. and love of hergat hold of my heart. So I rose and brought a tray of the mostdelicate eatables and fruits and whatso befitted the occasion,and we ate and played and after that we drank till the wineturned our heads. Then I lay with her the sweetest of nights andin the morning I offered her ten gold pieces. when her facelowered and her eye brows wrinkled and shaking with wrath shecried, "Fie upon thee, O my sweet companion! dost thou deem thatI covet thy money?" Then she took out from the bosom of hershift fifteen dinars and, laying them before me, said,"By Allah! unless thou take them I will never come back to thee."So I accepted them and she said to me, "O my beloved! expect meagain in three days' time, when I will be with thee betweensunset and supper tide. and do thou prepare for us with thesedinars the same entertainment as yesternight." So saying, shetook leave of me and went away and all my senses went with her.On the third day she came again, clad in stuff weft with goldwire, and wearing raiment and ornaments finer than before. I hadprepared the place for her ere she arrived and the repast wasready. so we ate and drank and lay together, as we had done, tillthe morning, when she gave me other fifteen gold pieces andpromised to come again after three days. Accordingly, I madeready for her and, at the appointed time, she presented herselfmore richly dressed than on the first and second occasions, andsaid to me, "O my lord, am I not beautiful?" "Yea, by Allah thouart!" answered I, and she went on, "Wilt thou allow me to bringwith me a young lady fairer than I, and younger in years, thatshe may play with us and thou and she may laugh and make merryand rejoice her heart, for she hath been very sad this long timepast, and hath asked me to take her out and let her spend thenight abroad with me?" "Yea, by Allah!" I replied. and we dranktill the wine turned our heads and slept till the morning, whenshe gave me other fifteen dinars, saying, "Add something to thyusual provision on account of the young lady who will come withme." Then she went away, and on the fourth day I made ready thehouse as usual, and soon after sunset behold, she came,accompanied by another damsel carefully wrapped in her mantilla.They entered and sat down. and when I saw them I repeated theseverses: "How dear is our day and how lucky our lot, When the cynic'saway with his tongue malign!When love and delight and the swimming of head Sendcleverness trotting, the best boon of wine.When the full moon shines from the cloudy veil, And thebranchlet sways in her greens that shine:When the red rose mantles in freshest cheek, AndNarcissus opeth his love sick eyne:When pleasure with those I love is so sweet, When friendshipwith those I love is complete!"I rejoiced to see them, and lighted the candles after receivingthem with gladness and delight. They doffed their heavy outerdresses and the new damsel uncovered her face when I saw that shewas like the moon at its full never beheld I aught morebeautiful. Then I rose and set meat and drink before them, and weate and drank. and I kept giving mouthfuls to the new comer,crowning her cup and drinking with her till the first damsel,waxing inwardly jealous, asked me, "By Allah, is she not moredelicious than I?". whereto I answered, "Ay, by the Lord!" "It ismy wish that thou lie with her this night. for I am thy mistressbut she is our visitor. Upon my head be it, and my eyes." Thenshe rose and spread the carpets for our bed and I tookthe young lady and lay with her that night till morning, when Iawoke and found myself wet, as I thought, with sweat. I sat upand tried to arouse the damsel. but when I shook her by theshoulders my hand became crimson with blood and her head rolledoff the pillow. Thereupon my senses fled and I cried aloud,saying, "O All powerful Protector, grant me Thy protection!" Thenfinding her neck had been severed, I sprung up and the worldwaxed black before my eyes, and I looked for the lady, my formerlove, but could not find her. So I knew that it was she who hadmurdered the damsel in her jealousy, and said, "There isno Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, theGreat! What is to be done now?" I considered awhile then, doffingmy clothes, dug a hole in the middle of the court yard, wherein Ilaid the murdered girl with her jewellery and golden ornaments.and, throwing back the earth on her, replaced the slabs of themarble pavement. After this I made the Ghusl or totalablution, and put on pure clothes. then, taking whatmoney I had left, locked up the house and summoned courage andwent to its owner to whom I paid a year's rent, saying, "I amabout to join my uncles in Cairo." Presently I set out and,journeying to Egypt, foregathered with my uncles who rejoiced inme, and I found that they had made an end of selling theirmerchandise. They asked me, "What is the cause of thy coming?".and I answered "I longed for a sight of you." but did not letthem know that I had any money with me. I abode with them a year,enjoying the pleasures of Cairo and her Nile, andsquandering the rest of my money in feasting and carousing tillthe time drew near for the departure of my uncles, when I fledfrom them and hid myself. They made enquiries and sought for me,but hearing no tidings they said, "He will have gone back toDamascus." When they departed I came forth from my hiding placeand abode in Cairo three years, until naught remained of mymoney. Now every year I used to send the rent of the Damascushouse to its owner, until at last I had nothing left but enoughto pay him for one year's rent and my breast was straitened. So Itravelled to Damascus and alighted at the house whose owner, thejeweller, was glad to see me and I found everything locked up asI had left it. I opened the closets and took out my clothes andnecessaries and came upon, beneath the carpet bed whereon I hadlain that night with the girl who had been beheaded, a goldennecklace set with ten gems of passing beauty. I took it up and,cleansing it of the blood, sat gazing upon it and wept awhile.Then I abode in the house two days and on the third I entered theHammam and changed my clothes. I had no money by me now. so Satanwhispered temptation to me that the Decree of Destiny be carriedout. Next day I took the jewelled necklace to the bazaar andhanded it to a broker who made me sit down in the shop of thejeweller, my landlord, and bade me have patience till the marketwas full, when he carried off the ornament and proclaimedit for sale, privily and without my knowledge. The necklet waspriced as worth two thousand dinars, but the broker returned tome and said, "This collar is of copper, a mere counterfeit afterthe fashion of the Franks and a thousand dirhams havebeen bidden for it." "Yes," I answered, "I knew it to be copper,as we had it made for a certain person that we might mock her:now my wife hath inherited it and we wish to sell it. so go andtake over the thousand dirhams." And Shahrazad perceived thedawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.When it was the Twenty ninth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that thebeautiful youth said to the broker, "Take over the thousanddirhams." and when the broker heard this, he knew that the casewas suspicious. So he carried the collar to the Syndic of thebazaar, and the Syndic took it to the Governor who was alsoprefect of police, and said to him falsely enough, "This neckletwas stolen from my house, and we have found the thief in traders'dress." So before I was aware of it the watch got round me and,making me their prisoner, carried me before the Governor whoquestioned me of the collar. I told him the tale I had told tothe broker. but he laughed and said, "These words are not true."Then, before I knew what was doing, the guard stripped off myclothes and came down with palm rods upon my ribs, till for thesmart of the stick I confessed, "It was I who stole it." sayingto myself, "'Tis better for thee to say, I stole it, than to letthem know that its owner was murdered in thy house, for thenwould they slay thee to avenge her." So they wrote down that Ihad stolen it and they cut off my hand and scalded the stump inoil, when I swooned away for pain. but they gave me wineto drink and I recovered and, taking up my hand, was going to myfine house, when my landlord said to me, "Inasmuch, O my son, asthis hath befallen thee, thou must leave my house and look outfor another lodging for thee, since thou art convicted of theft.Thou art a handsome youth, but who will pity thee after this?" "Omy master" said I, "bear with me but two days or three, till Ifind me another place." He answered, "So be it." and went awayand left me. I returned to the house where I sat weeping andsaying, How shall I go back to my own people with my hand loppedoff and they know not that I am innocent? Perchance even afterthis Allah may order some matter for me." And I wept withexceeding weeping, grief beset me and I remained in sore troublefor two days. but on the third day my landlord came suddenly into me, and with him some of the guard and the Syndic of thebazaar, who had falsely charged me with stealing the necklet. Iwent up to them and asked, "What is the matter?" however, theypinioned me with out further parley and threw a chain about myneck, saying, "The necklet which was with thee hath proved to bethe property of the Wazir of Damascus who is also her Viceroy."and they added, "It was missing from his house three years ago atthe same time as his younger daughter." When I heard these words,my heart sank within me and I said to myself, "Thy life is gonebeyond a doubt! By Allah, needs must I tell the Chief my story.and, if he will, let him kill me, and if he please, let himpardon me." So they carried me to the Wazir's house and made mestand between his hands. When he saw me, he glanced at me out ofthe corner of his eye and said to those present, "Why did ye lopoff his hand? This man is unfortunate, and there is no fault inhim. indeed ye have wronged him in cutting off his hand." When Iheard this, I took heart and, my soul presaging good, I said tohim, "By Allah, O my lord, I am no thief. but they calumniated mewith a vile calumny, and they scourged me midmost the market,bidding me confess till, for the pain of the rods, I lied againstmyself and confessed the theft, albeit I am altogether innocentof it." "Fear not," quoth the Viceroy, "no harm shall come tothee." Then he ordered the Syndic of the bazaar to be imprisonedand said to him, "Give this man the blood money for his hand.and, if thou delay I will hang thee and seize all thy property."Moreover he called to his guards who took him and dragged himaway, leaving me with the Chief. Then they loosed by his commandthe chain from my neck and unbound my arms. and he looked at me,and said, "O my son, be true with me, and tell me how thisnecklace came to thee." And he repeated these verses: "Truth best befits thee, albeit truth Shall bring thee to burnon the threatened fire.""By Allah, O my lord," answered I, "I will tell thee nothing butthe truth." Then I related to him all that had passed between meand the first lady, and how she had brought me the second and hadslain her out of jealousy, and I detailed for him the tale to itsfull. When he heard my story, he shook his head and struck hisright hand upon the left, and putting his kerchief overhis face wept awhile and then repeated: "I see the woes of the world abound, And worldings sick withspleen and teen.There's One who the meeting of two shall part, And who part notare few and far between!"Then he turned to me and said, "Know, O my son, that the elderdamsel who first came to thee was my daughter whom I used to keepclosely guarded. When she grew up, I sent her to Cairo andmarried her to her cousin, my brother's son. After a while hedied and she came back: but she had learnt wantonness andungraciousness from the people of Cairo. so she visitedthee four times and at last brought her younger sister. Now theywere sisters german and much attached to each other. and, whenthat adventure happened to the elder, she disclosed her secret toher sister who desired to go out with her. So she asked thy leaveand carried her to thee. after which she returned alone and,finding her weeping, I questioned her of her sister, but shesaid, 'I know nothing of her.' However, she presently told hermother privily of what had happened and how she had cut off hersister's head and her mother told me. Then she ceased not to weepand say, 'By Allah! I shall cry for her till I die.' Nor did shegive over mourning till her heart broke and she died. and thingsfell out after that fashion. See then, O my son, what hath cometo pass. and now I desire thee not to thwart me in what I amabout to offer thee, and it is that I purpose to marry thee to myyoungest daughter. for she is a virgin and born of anothermother. and I will take no dower of thee but, on thecontrary, will appoint thee an allowance, and thou shalt abidewith me in my house in the stead of my son." "So be it," Ianswered, "and how could I hope for such good fortune?" Then hesent at once for the Kazi and witnesses, and let write mymarriage contract with his daughter and I went in to her.Moreover, he got me from the Syndic of the bazaar a large sum ofmoney and I became in high favour with him. During this year newscame to me that my father was dead and the Wazir despatched acourier, with letters bearing the royal sign manual, to fetch methe money which my father had left behind him, and now I amliving in all the solace of life. Such was the manner of thecutting off my right hand." I marvelled at his story (continuedthe Jew), and I abode with him three days after which he gave memuch wealth, and I set out and travelled Eastward till I reachedthis your city and the sojourn suited me right well. so I took upmy abode here and there befell me what thou knowest with theHunchback. There upon the King of China shook his headand said, "This story of thine is not stranger and more wondrousand marvellous and delectable than the tale of the Hunchback. andso needs must I hang the whole number of you. However there yetremains the Tailor who is the head of all the offence." and headded, "O Tailor, if thou canst tell me any thing more wonderfulthan the story of the Hunchback, I will pardon you all youroffences." Thereupon the man came forward and began to tell the