It is related, O auspicious King, that there was a merchant ofthe merchants who had much wealth, and business in variouscities. Now on a day he mounted horse and went forth to re covermonies in certain towns, and the heat sore oppressed him. so hesat beneath a tree and, putting his hand into his saddle bags,took thence some broken bread and dry dates and began to breakhis fast. When he had ended eating the dates he threw away thestones with force and lo! an Ifrit appeared, huge of stature andbrandishing a drawn sword, wherewith he approached the mer chantand said, "Stand up that I may slay thee, even as thou slewest myson!" Asked the merchant, "How have I slain thy son?" and heanswered, "When thou atest dates and threwest away the stonesthey struck my son full in the breast as he was walking by, sothat he died forthwith." Quoth the merchant, "Verily fromAllah we proceeded and unto Allah are we re turning. There is noMajesty, and there is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, theGreat! If I slew thy son, I slew him by chance medley. I praythee now pardon me." Rejoined the Jinni, "There is no help but Imust slay thee." Then he seized him and dragged him along and,casting him to the earth, raised the sword to strike him.whereupon the merchant wept, and said, "I commit my case toAllah," and began repeating these couplets: Containeth Time a twain of days, this of blessing that of baneAnd holdeth Life a twain of halves, this of pleasure that ofpain.See'st not when blows the hurricane, sweeping stark and strikingstrong None save the forest giant feels the suffering ofthe strain?How many trees earth nourisheth of the dry and of the greenYet none but those which bear the fruits for cast of stonecomplain.See'st not how corpses rise and float on the surface of the tideWhile pearls o'price lie hidden in the deepest of themain!In Heaven are unnumbered the many of the stars Yet ne'er a starbut Sun and Moon by eclipse is overta'en.Well judgedst thou the days that saw thy faring sound and wellAnd countedst not the pangs and pain whereof Fate is everfain.The nights have kept thee safe and the safety brought thee prideBut bliss and blessings of the night are 'genderers ofbane!When the merchant ceased repeating his verses the Jinni said tohim, "Cut thy words short, by Allah! needs must I slay thee." Butthe merchant spake him thus, "Know, O thou Ifrit, that I havedebts due to me and much wealth and children and a wife and manypledges in hand. so permit me to go home and dis charge to everyclaimant his claim. and I will come back to thee at the head ofthe new year. Allah be my testimony and surety that I will returnto thee. and then thou mayest do with me as thou wilt and Allahis witness to what I say." The Jinni took sure promise of him andlet him go. so he returned to his own city and transacted hisbusiness and rendered to all men their dues and after informinghis wife and children of what had betided him, he appointed aguardian and dwelt with them for a full year. Then he arose, andmade the Wuzu ablution to purify himself before death and tookhis shroud under his arm and bade farewell to his people, hisneighbours and all his kith and kin, and went forth despite hisown nose. They then began weeping and wailing and beatingtheir breasts over him. but he travelled until he arrived at thesame garden, and the day of his arrival was the head of the NewYear. As he sat weeping over what had befallen him, behold, aShaykh, a very ancient man, drew near leading a chainedgazelle. and he saluted that merchant and wishing him long lifesaid, "What is the cause of thy sitting in this place and thoualone and this be a resort of evil spirits?" The merchant relatedto him what had come to pass with the Ifrit, and the old man, theowner of the gazelle, wondered and said, "By Allah, O brother,thy faith is none other than exceeding faith and thy story rightstrange. were it graven with gravers on the eye corners, it werea warner to whoso would be warned." Then seating himself near themerchant he said, "By Allah, O my brother, I will not leave theeuntil I see what may come to pass with thee and this Ifrit." Andpresently as he sat and the two were at talk the merchant beganto feel fear and terror and exceeding grief and sorrow beyondrelief and ever growing care and extreme despair. And the ownerof the gazelle was hard by his side. when behold, a second Shaykhapproached them, and with him were two dogs both of greyhoundbreed and both black. The second old man after saluting them withthe salam, also asked them of their tidings and said "Whatcauseth you to sit in this place, a dwelling of the Jann?"So they told him the tale from beginning to end, and their staythere had not lasted long before there came up a third Shaykh,and with him a she mule of bright bay coat. and he saluted themand asked them why they were seated in that place. So they toldhim the story from first to last: and of no avail, O my master,is a twice told tale! There he sat down with them, and lo! a dustcloud advanced and a mighty send devil appeared amidmost of thewaste. Presently the cloud opened and behold, within it was thatJinni hending in hand a drawn sword, while his eyes were shootingfire sparks of rage. He came up to them and, haling away themerchant from among them, cried to him, "Arise that I may slaythee, as thou slewest my son, the life stuff of my liver."The merchant wailed and wept, and the three old men began sighingand crying and weeping and wailing with their companion.Presently the first old man (the owner of the gazelle) came outfrom among them and kissed the hand of the Ifrit and said, "OJinni, thou Crown of the Kings of the Jann! were I to tell theethe story of me and this gazelle and thou shouldst consider itwondrous wouldst thou give me a third part of this merchant'sblood?" Then quoth the Jinni "Even so, O Shaykh ! if thou tell methis tale, and I hold it a marvellous, then will I give thee athird of his blood." Thereupon the old man began to tell