Know, O my daughter, that there was once a merchant who ownedmuch money and many men, and who was rich in cattle and camels.he had also a wife and family and he dwelt in the country, beingexperienced in husbandry and devoted to agriculture. Now AllahMost High had endowed him with under standing the tongues ofbeasts and birds of every kind, but under pain of death if hedivulged the gift to any. So he kept it secret for very fear. Hehad in his cow house a Bull and an Ass each tethered in his ownstall one hard by the other. As the merchant was sitting nearhand one day with his servants and his children were playingabout him, he heard the Bull say to the Ass, "Hail and health tothee O Father of Waking! for that thou enjoyest rest andgood ministering. all under thee is clean swept and freshsprinkled. men wait upon thee and feed thee, and thy provaunt issifted barley and thy drink pure spring water, while I (unhappycreature!) am led forth in the middle of the night, when they seton my neck the plough and a something called Yoke. and I tire atcleaving the earth from dawn of day till set of sun. I am forcedto do more than I can and to bear all manner of ill treatmentfrom night to night. after which they take me back with my sidestorn, my neck flayed, my legs aching and mine eyelids sored withtears. Then they shut me up in the byre and throw me beans andcrushed straw, mixed with dirt and chaff. and I lie indung and filth and foul stinks through the livelong night. Butthou art ever in a place swept and sprinkled and cleansed, andthou art always lying at ease, save when it happens (and seldomenough!) that the master hath some business, when he mounts theeand rides thee to town and returns with thee forthright. So ithappens that I am toiling and distress while thou takest thineease and thy rest. thou sleepest while I am sleepless. I hungerstill while thou eatest thy fill, and I win contempt while thouwinnest good will." When the Bull ceased speaking, the Ass turnedto wards him and said, "O Broad o' Brow, 0 thou lost one!he lied not who dubbed thee Bull head, for thou, O father of aBull, hast neither forethought nor contrivance. thou art thesimplest of simpletons, and thou knowest naught of goodadvisers. Hast thou not heard the saying of the wise: For others these hardships and labours I bear And theirs is thepleasure and mine is the care.As the bleacher who blacketh his brow in the sun To whiten theraiment which other men wear.But thou, O fool, art full of zeal and thou toilest and moilestbefore the master. and thou tearest and wearest and slayest thyself for the comfort of another. Hast thou never heard the sawthat saith, None to guide and from the way go wide? Thou wendestforth at the call to dawn prayer and thou returnest not tillsundown. and through the livelong day thou endurest all mannerhardships. to wit, beating and belabouring and bad language. Nowhearken to me, Sir Bull! when they tie thee to thy stinkingmanger, thou pawest the ground with thy forehand and rashest outwith thy hind hoofs and pushest with thy horns and bellowestaloud, so they deem thee contented. And when they throw thee thyfodder thou fallest on it with greed and hastenest to line thyfair fat paunch. But if thou accept my advice it will be betterfor thee and thou wilt lead an easier life even than mine. Whenthou goest a field and they lay the thing called Yoke on thyneck, lie down and rise not again though haply they swinge thee.and, if thou rise, lie down a second time. and when they bringthee home and offer thee thy beans, fall backwards and only sniffat thy meat and withdraw thee and taste it not, and be satis fiedwith thy crushed straw and chaff. and on this wise feign thou artsick, and cease not doing thus for a day or two days or eventhree days, so shalt thou have rest from toil and moil." When theBull heard these words he knew the Ass to be his friend andthanked him, saying, "Right is thy rede." and prayed that allblessings might requite him, and cried, "O Father Wakener!thou hast made up for my failings." (Now the merchant, Omy daughter, understood all that passed between them.) Next daythe driver took the Bull, and settling the plough on hisneck, made him work as wont. but the Bull began to shirkhis ploughing, according to the advice of the Ass, and theploughman drubbed him till he broke the yoke and made off. butthe man caught him up and leathered him till he despaired of hislife. Not the less, however, would he do nothing but stand stilland drop down till the evening. Then the herd led him home andstabled him in his stall: but he drew back from his manger andneither stamped nor ramped nor butted nor bellowed as he was wontto do. whereat the man wondered. He brought him the beans andhusks, but he sniffed at them and left them and lay down as farfrom them as he could and passed the whole night fasting. Thepeasant came next morning. and, seeing the manger full of beans,the crushed straw untasted and the ox lying on his back insorriest plight, with legs outstretched and swollen belly, he wasconcerned for him, and said to himself, "By Allah, he hathassuredly sickened and this is the cause why he would not ploughyesterday." Then he went to the merchant and reported, "O mymaster, the Bull is ailing. he refused his fodder last night. naymore, he hath not tasted a scrap of it this morning." Now themerchant farmer understood what all this meant, because he hadoverheard the talk between the Bull and the Ass, so quoth he,"Take that rascal donkey, and set the yoke on his neck, and bindhim to the plough and make him do Bull's work." Thereupon theploughman took the Ass, and worked him through the live long dayat the Bull's task. and, when he failed for weakness, he made himeat stick till his ribs were sore and his sides were sunken andhis neck was hayed by the yoke. and when he came home in theevening he could hardly drag his limbs along, either fore hand orhind legs. But as for the Bull, he had passed the day lying atfull length and had eaten his fodder with an excellent appetite,and he ceased not calling down blessings on the Ass for his goodadvice, unknowing what had come to him on his ac count. So whennight set in and the Ass returned to the byte the Bull rose upbefore him in honour, and said, "May good tidings gladden thyheart, O Father Wakener! through thee I have rested all this dayand I have eaten my meat in peace and quiet." But the Assreturned no reply, for wrath and heart burning and fatigue andthe beating he had gotten. and he repented with the most grievousof repentance. and quoth he to himself: "This cometh of my follyin giving good counsel. as the saw saith, I was in joy andgladness, nought save my officiousness brought me this sadness.But I will bear in mind my innate worth and the nobility of mynature. for what saith the poet?Shall the beautiful hue of the Basil fail Tho' thebeetle's foot o'er the Basil crawl?And though spider and fly be its denizens Shall disgrace attachto the royal hall?The cowrie, I ken, shall have currency But the pearl'sclear drop, shall its value fall?And now I must take thought and put a trick upon him and returnhim to his place, else I die." Then he went aweary to his manger,while the Bull thanked him and blessed him. And even so, O mydaughter, said the Wazir, thou wilt die for lack of wits.therefore sit thee still and say naught and expose not thy lifeto such stress. for, by Allah, I offer thee the best advice,which cometh of my affection and kindly solicitude for thee." "Omy father," she answered, "needs must I go up to this King and bemarried to him." Quoth he, "Do not this deed." and quoth she, "Ofa truth I will:" whereat he rejoined, "If thou be not silent andbide still, I will do with thee even what the merchant did withhis wife." "And what did he?" asked she. "Know then, answered theWazir, that after the return of the Ass the merchant came out onthe terrace roof with his wife and family, for it was a moonlitnight and the moon at its full. Now the ter race overlooked thecowhouse and presently, as he sat there with his children playingabout him, the trader heard the Ass say to the Bull, "Tell me, OFather Broad o' Brow, what thou purposest to do to morrow?" TheBull answered, "What but continue to follow thy counsel, OAliboron? Indeed it was as good as good could be and it hathgiven me rest and repose. nor will I now depart from it onelittle: so, when they bring me my meat, I will refuse it and blowout my belly and counterfeit crank." The Ass shook his head andsaid, "Beware of so doing, O Father of a Bull!" The Bull asked,"Why," and the Ass answered, "Know that I am about to give theethe best of counsel, for verily I heard our owner say to theherd, If the Bull rise not from his place to do his work thismorning and if he retire from his fodder this day, make him overto the butcher that he may slaughter him and give his flesh tothe poor, and fashion a bit of leather from his hide. NowI fear for thee on account of this. So take my advice ere acalamity befal thee. and when they bring thee thy fodder eat itand rise up and bellow and paw the ground, or our master willassuredly slay thee: and peace be with thee!" Thereupon the Bullarose and lowed aloud and thanked the Ass, and said, "To morrow Iwill readily go forth with them." and he at once ate up all hismeat and even licked the manger. (All this took place and theowner was listening to their talk.) Next morning the trader andhis wife went to the Bull's crib and sat down, and the drivercame and led forth the Bull who, seeing his owner, whisked histail and brake wind, and frisked about so lustily that themerchant laughed a loud laugh and kept laughing till he fell onhis back. His wife asked him, "Whereat laughest thou with suchloud laughter as this?". and he answered her, "I laughed at asecret something which I have heard and seen but cannot say lestI die my death." She returned, "Perforce thou must discover it tome, and disclose the cause of thy laughing even if thou come bythy death!" But he rejoined, "I cannot re veal what beasts andbirds say in their lingo for fear I die." Then quoth she, "ByAllah, thou liest! this is a mere pretext: thou laughest at nonesave me, and now thou wouldest hide somewhat from me. But by theLord of the Heavens! an thou disclose not the cause I will nolonger cohabit with thee: I will leave thee at once." And she satdown and cried. Whereupon quoth the merchant, "Woe betide thee!what means thy weeping? Bear Allah and leave these words andquery me no more questions." "Needs must thou tell me the causeof that laugh," said she, and he replied, "Thou wottest that whenI prayed Allah to vouchsafe me understanding of the tongues ofbeasts and birds, I made a vow never to disclose the secret toany under pain of dying on the spot." "No matter," cried she,"tell me what secret passed between the Bull and the Ass and diethis very hour an thou be so minded." and she ceased not toimportune him till he was worn out and clean distraught. So atlast he said, "Summon thy father and thy mother and our kith andkin and sundry of our neighbours," which she did. and he sent forthe Kazi and his assessors, intending to make his will andreveal to her his secret and die the death. for he loved her withlove exceeding because she was his cousin, the daughter of hisfather's brother, and the mother of his children, and he hadlived with her a life of an hundred and twenty years. Then,having assembled all the family and the folk of hisneighbourhood, he said to them, "By me there hangeth a strangestory, and 'tis such that if I discover the secret to any, I am adead man." Therefore quoth every one of those present to thewoman, "Allah upon thee, leave this sinful obstinacy andrecognise the right of this matter, lest haply thy husband andthe father of thy children die." But she rejoined, "I will notturn from it till he tell me, even though he come by his death."So they ceased to urge her. and the trader rose from amongst themand repaired to an out house to per form Wuzu ablution,and he purposed thereafter to return and to tell them his secretand to die. Now, daughter Shahrazad, that mer chant had in hisout houses some fifty hens under one cock, and whilst makingready to farewell his folk he heard one of his many farm dogsthus address in his own tongue the Cock, who was flapping hiswings and crowing lustily and jumping from one hen's back toanother and treading all in turn, saying "O Chanti clear! howmean is thy wit and how shameless is thy conduct! Be hedisappointed who brought thee up! Art thou not ashamed ofthy doings on such a day as this!" "And what," asked the Rooster,"hath occurred this day?" when the Dog answered, "Doss thou notknow that our master is this day making ready for his death? Hiswife is resolved that he shall disclose the secret taught to himby Allah, and the moment he so doeth he shall surely die. We dogsare all a mourning. but thou clappest thy wings and clarionestthy loudest and treadest hen after hen. Is this an hour forpastime and pleasuring? Art thou not ashamed of thyself?""Then by Allah," quoth the Cock, "is our master a lack wit and aman scanty of sense: if he cannot manage matters with a singlewife, his life is not worth prolonging. Now I have some fiftyDame Partlets. and I please this and provoke that and starve oneand stuff another. and through my good governance they are allwell under my control. This our master pretendeth to wit andwisdom, and he hath but one wife, and yet knoweth not how tomanage her." Asked the Dog, "What then, O Cock, should the masterdo to win clear of his strait?" "He should arise forthright,"answered the Cock, "and take some twigs from yon mulberry treeand give her a regular back basting and rib roasting till shecry: I repent, O my lord! I will never ask thee a question aslong as I live! Then let him beat her once more and soundly, andwhen he shall have done this he shall sleep free from care andenjoy life. But this master of ours owns neither sense norjudgment." "Now, daughter Shahrazad," continued the Wazir, "Iwill do to thee as did that husband to that wife." SaidShahrazad, "And what did he do?" He replied, "When the merchantheard the wise words spoken by his Cock to his Dog, he arose inhaste and sought his wife's chamber, after cutting for her somemulberry twigs and hiding them there. and then he called to her,"Come into the closet that I may tell thee the secret while noone seeth me and then die." She entered with him and he lockedthe door and came down upon her with so sound a beating of backand shoulders, ribs, arms and legs, saying the while, "Wilt thouever be asking questions about what concerneth thee not?" thatshe was well nigh senseless. Presently she cried out, "I am ofthe repentant! By Allah, I will ask thee no more questions, andindeed I repent sincerely and wholesomely." Then she kissed hishand and feet and he led her out of the room submissive as a wifeshould be. Her parents and all the company rejoiced and sadnessand mourn ing were changed into joy and gladness. Thus themerchant learnt family discipline from his Cock and he and hiswife lived together the happiest of lives until death. And thoualso, O my daughter!" continued the Wazir, "Unless thou turn fromthis matter I will do by thee what that trader did to his wife."But she answered him with much decision, "I will never desist, Omy father, nor shall this tale change my purpose. Leave such talkand tattle. I will not listen to thy words and, if thou deny me,I will marry myself to him despite the nose of thee. And first Iwill go up to the King myself and alone and I will say to him: Iprayed my father to wive me with thee, but he refused beingresolved to disappoint his lord, grudging the like of me to thelike of thee." Her father asked, "Must this needs be?" and sheanswered, "Even so." Hereupon the Wazir being weary of lamentingand contending, persuading and dissuading her, all to no purpose,went up to King Shahryar and after blessing him and kissing theground before him, told him all about his dispute with hisdaughter from first to last and how he designed to bring her tohim that night. The King wondered with exceeding wonder. for hehad made an especial exception of the Wazir's daughter, and saidto him, "O most faithful of Counsellors, how is this? Thouwottest that I have sworn by the Raiser of the Heavens that afterI have gone in to her this night I shall say to thee on themorrow's morning: Take her and slay her! and, if thou slay hernot, I will slay thee in her stead without fail." "Allah guidethee to glory and lengthen thy life, O King of the age," answeredthe Wazir, "it is she that hath so determined: all this have Itold her and more. but she will not hearken to me and shepersisteth in passing this coming night with the King's Majesty."So Shahryar rejoiced greatly and said, "'Tis well. go get herready and this night bring her to me." The Wazir returned to hisdaughter and reported to her the command saying, "Allah make notthy father desolate by thy loss!" But Shah razed rejoiced withexceeding joy and get ready all she required and said to heryounger sister, Dunyazad, "Note well what directions I entrust tothee! When I have gone in to the King I will send for thee andwhen thou comest to me and seest that he hath had his carnal willof me, do thou say to me: O my sister, an thou be not sleepy,relate to me some new story, delectable and delightsome, thebetter to speed our waking hours." and I will tell thee a talewhich shall be our deliverance, if so Allah please, and whichshall turn the King from his blood thirsty custom." Dunyazadanswered "With love and gladness." So when it was night theirfather the Wazir carried Shahrazad to the King who was gladdenedat the sight and asked, "Hast thou brought me my need?" and heanswered, "I have." But when the King took her to his bed andfell to toying with her and wished to go in to her she wept.which made him ask, "What aileth thee?" She replied, "O King ofthe age, I have a younger sister and fief would I take leave ofher this night before I see the dawn." So he sent at once forDunyazad and she came and kissed the ground between his hands,when he permitted her to take her seat near the foot of thecouch. Then the King arose and did away with his bride'smaidenhead and the three fell asleep. But when it was midnightShahrazad awoke and signalled to her sister Dunyazad who sat upand said, "Allah upon thee, O my sister, recite to us some newstory, delightsome and delectable, wherewith to while away thewaking hours of our latter night." "With joy and goodlygree," answered Shahrazad, "if this pious and auspicious Kingpermit me." "Tell on," quoth the King who chanced to be sleeplessand restless and therefore was pleased with the prospect ofhearing her story. So Shahrazad rejoiced. and thus, on the firstnight of the Thousand Nights and a Night, she began with the