Know, O Commander of the Faithful, that in times of yore the landof Egypt was ruled by a Sultan endowed with justice andgenerosity, one who loved the pious poor and companied with theOlema and learned men. and he had a Wazir, a wise and anexperienced, well versed in affairs and in the art of government.This Minister, who was a very old man, had two sons, as they weretwo moons. never man saw the like of them for beauty and grace,the elder called Shams al Din Mohammed and the younger Nur al DinAli. but the younger excelled the elder in seemliness andpleasing semblance, so that folk heard his fame in far countriesand men flocked to Egypt for the purpose of seeing him. Incourse of time their father, the Wazir, died and was deeplyregretted and mourned by the Sultan, who sent for his two sonsand, investing them with dresses of honour, said tothem, "Let not your hearts be troubled, for ye shall stand inyour father's stead and be joint Ministers of Egypt." At thisthey rejoiced and kissed the ground before him and performed theceremonial mourning for their father during a fullmonth. after which time they entered upon the Wazirate, and thepower passed into their hands as it had been in the hands oftheir father, each doing duty for a week at a time. They livedunder the same roof and their word was one. and whenever theSultan desired to travel they took it by turns to be inattendance on him. It fortuned one night that the Sultanpurposed setting out on a journey next morning, and the elder,whose turn it was to accompany him, was sitting conversing withhis brother and said to him, "O my brother, it is my wish that weboth marry, I and thou, two sisters. and go in to our wives onone and the same night." "Do, O my brother, as thou desirest,"the younger replied, "for right is thy recking and surely I willcomply with thee in whatso thou sayest." So they agreed uponthis and quoth Shams al Din, "If Allah decree that we marry twodamsels and go in to them on the same night, and they shallconceive on their bridenights and bear children to us on the sameday, and by Allah's will they wife bear thee a son and my wifebear me a daughter, let us wed them either to other, for theywill be cousins." Quoth Nur al Din, "O my brother, Shams al Din,what dower wilt thou require from my son for thydaughter?" Quoth Shams al Din, "I will take three thousanddinars and three pleasure gardens and three farms. and it wouldnot be seemly that the youth make contract for less than this."When Nur al Din heard such demand he said, "What manner of doweris this thou wouldst impose upon my son? Wottest thou not thatwe are brothers and both by Allah's grace Wazirs and equal inoffice? It behoveth thee to offer thy daughter to my son withoutmarriage settlement. or if one need be, it should represent amere nominal value by way of show to the world: for thou knowestthat the masculine is worthier than the feminine, and my son is amale and our memory will be preserved by him, not by thydaughter." "But what," said Shams al Din, "is she to have?". andNur al Din continued, "Through her we shall not be rememberedamong the Emirs of the earth. but I see thou wouldest do with meaccording to the saying: An thou wouldst bluff off a buyer, askhim high price and higher. or as did a man who, they say, went toa friend and asked something of him being in necessity and wasanswered, 'Bismallah, in the name of Allah, I will doall what thou requirest but come to morrow!' Whereupon the otherreplied in this verse: 'When he who is asked a favour saith "To morrow," The wise manwots 'tis vain to beg or borrow.'"Quoth Shams al Din, "Basta! I see thee fail in respectto me by making thy son of more account than my daughter. and'tis plain that thine understanding is of the meanest and thatthou lackest manners. Thou remindest me of thy partnership inthe Wazirate, when I admitted thee to share with me only in pityfor thee, and not wishing to mortify thee. and that thou mightesthelp me as a manner of assistant. But since thou talkest on thiswise, by Allah, I will never marry my daughter to thy son. no,not for her weight in gold!" When Nur al Din heard his brother'swords he waxed wroth and said, "And I too, I will never, nevermarry my son to thy daughter. no, not to keep from my lips thecup of death." Shams al Din replied, "I would not accept him asa husband for her, and he is not worth a paring of her nail.Were I not about to travel I would make an example of thee.however when I return thou shalt see, and I will show thee, how Ican assert my dignity and vindicate my honour. But Allah doethwhatso He willeth." When Nur al Din heard this speechfrom his brother, he was filled with fury and lost his wits forrage. but he hid what he felt and held his peace. and each of thebrothers passed the night in a place far apart, wild with wrathagainst the other. As soon as morning dawned the Sultan faredforth in state and crossed over from Cairo to Jizahand made for the pyramids, accompanied by the WazirShams al Din, whose turn of duty it was, whilst his brother Nural din, who passed the night in sore rage, rose with the lightand prayed the dawn prayer. Then he betook himself to histreasury and, taking a small pair of saddle bags, filled themwith gold. and he called to mind his brother's threats and thecontempt wherewith he had treated him, and he repeated thesecouplets: "Travel! and thou shalt find new friends for old ones leftbehind. Toil! for the sweets of human life by toil andmoil are found:The stay at home no honour wins nor aught attains but want. Soleave thy place of birth and wander all the worldaround!I've seen, and very oft I've seen, how standing water stinks,And only flowing sweetens it and trotting makes it sound:And were the moon forever full and ne'er to wax or wane, Manwould not strain his watchful eyes to see its gladsomeround:Except the lion leave his lair he ne'er would fell his game,Except the arrow leave the bow ne'er had it reached itsbound:Gold dust is dust the while it lies untravelled in the mine,And aloes wood mere fuel is upon its native ground:And gold shall win his highest worth when from his goal ungoal'd.And aloes sent to foreign parts grows costlier than gold."When he ended his verse he bade one of his pages saddle him hisNubian mare mule with her padded selle. Now she was a dapple grey, with ears like reed pens and legs like columns anda back high and strong as a dome builded on pillars. her saddlewas of gold cloth and her stirrups of Indian steel, and herhousing of Ispahan velvet. she had trappings which would servethe Chosroes, and she was like a bride adorned for her weddingnight. Moreover he bade lay on her back a piece of silk for aseat, and a prayer carpet under which were his saddle bags. Whenthis was done he said to his pages and slaves, "I purpose goingforth a pleasuring outside the city on the road to Kalyub town,and I shall lie three nights abroad. so let none of youfollow me, for there is something straiteneth my breast." Thenhe mounted the mule in haste. and, taking with him some provauntfor the way, set out from Cairo and faced the open anduncultivated country lying around it. About noontide heentered Bilbays city, where he dismounted and stayedawhile to rest himself and his mule and ate some of his victual.He bought at Bilbays all he wanted for himself and forage for hismule and then fared on the way of the waste. Towards night fallhe entered a town called Sa'adiyah where he alighted andtook out somewhat of his viaticum and ate. then he spread hisstrip of silk on the sand and set the saddle bags under his headand slept in the open air. for he was still overcome with anger.When morning dawned he mounted and rode onward till he reachedthe Holy City, Jerusalem, and thence he made Aleppo,where he dismounted at one of the caravanserais and abode threedays to rest himself and the mule and to smell the air.Then, being determined to travel afar and Allah having writtensafety in his fate, he set out again, wending without wottingwhither he was going. and, having fallen in with certaincouriers, he stinted not travelling till he had reached Bassorah city albeit he knew not what the place was. It was dark nightwhen he alighted at the Khan, so he spread out his prayer carpetand took down the saddle bags from the back of his mule and gaveher with her furniture in charge of the door keeper that he mightwalk her about. The man took her and did as he was bid. Now itso happened that the Wazir of Bassorah, a man shot in years, wassitting at the lattice window of his palace opposite the Khan andhe saw the porter walking the mule up and down. He was struck byher trappings of price and thought her a nice beast fit for theriding of Wazirs or even of royalties. and the more he looked themore was he perplexed till at last he said to one of his pages,"Bring hither yon door keeper," The page went and returned tothe Wazir with the porter who kissed the ground between hishands, and the Minister asked him, "Who is the owner of yondermule and what manner of man is he?". and he answered, "O my lord,the owner of this mule is a comely young man of pleasant manners,withal grave and dignified, and doubtless one of the sons of themerchants." When the Wazir heard the door keeper's words hearose forthright. and, mounting his horse, rode to the Khanand went in to Nur al Din who, seeing the ministermaking towards him, rose to his feet and advanced to meet him andsaluted him. The Wazir welcomed him to Bassorah and dis mounting, embraced him and made him sit down by his side andsaid, "O my son, whence comest thou and what dost thou seek?" "Omy lord," Nur al Din replied, "I have come from Cairo city ofwhich my father was whilome Wazir. but he hath been removed tothe grace of Allah." and he informed him of all that had befallenhim from beginning to end, adding, "I am resolved never to returnhome before I have seen all the cities and countries of theworld." When the Wazir heard this, he said to him, "O my son,hearken not to the voice of passion lest it cast thee into thepit. for indeed many regions be waste places and I fear for theethe turns of Time." Then he let load the saddle bags and thesilk and prayer carpets on the mule and carried Nur al Din to hisown house, where he lodged him in a pleasant place and entreatedhim honourably and made much of him, for he inclined to love himwith exceeding love. After a while he said to him, "O my son,here am I left a man in years and have no male children, butAllah hath blessed me with a daughter who eventh thee in beauty.and I have rejected all her many suitors, men of rank andsubstance. But affection for thee hath entered into my heart.say me, then, wilt thou be to her a husband? If thou acceptthis, I will go up with thee to the Sultan of Bassorahand will tell him that thou art my nephew, the son of my brother,and bring thee to be appointed Wazir in my place that I may keepthe house for, by Allah, O my son, I am stricken in years andaweary." When Nur al Din heard the Wazir's words, he bowed hishead in modesty and said, "To hear is to obey!" At this theWazir rejoiced and bade his servants prepare a feast and decoratethe great assembly hall, wherein they were wont to celebrate themarriages of Emirs and Grandees. Then he assembled his friendsand the notables of the reign and the merchants of Bassorah andwhen all stood before him he said to them, "I had a brother whowas Wazir in the land of Egypt, and Allah Almighty blessed himwith two sons, whilst to me, as well ye wot, He hath given adaughter. My brother charged me to marry my daughter to one ofhis sons, whereto I assented. and, when my daughter was of age tomarry, he sent me one of his sons, the young man now present, towhom I purpose marrying her, drawing up the contract andcelebrating the night of unveiling with due ceremony. for he isnearer and dearer to me than a stranger and, after the wedding,if he please he shall abide with me, or if he desire to travel Iwill forward him and his wife to his father's home." Hereat oneand all replied, "Right is thy recking." and they all looked atthe bridegroom and were pleased with him. So the Wazir sent forthe Kazi and legal witnesses and they wrote out the marriage contract, after which the slaves perfumed the guests withincense, and served them with sherbet of sugar andsprinkled rose water on them and all went their ways. Then theWazir bade his servants take Nur al Din to the Hammam baths andsent him a suit of the best of his own especial raiment, andnapkins and towelry and bowls and perfume burners and all elsethat was required. After the bath, when he came out and donnedthe dress, he was even as the full moon on the fourteenth night.and he mounted his mule and stayed not till he reached theWazir's palace. There he dismounted and went in to the Ministerand kissed his hands, and the Wazir bade him welcome. AndShahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say herpermitted say.When it was the Twenty first Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Wazirstood up to him and welcoming him said, "Arise and go in to thywife this night, and on the morrow I will carry thee to theSultan, and pray Allah bless thee with all manner of weal." SoNur al Din left him and went into his wife the Wazir's daughter.Thus far concerning him, but as regards his eldest brother, Shamsal Din, he was absent with the Sultan a long time and when hereturned from his journey he found not his brother. and he askedof his servants and slaves who answered, "On the day of thydeparture with the Sultan, thy brother mounted his mule fullycaparisoned as for state procession saying, 'I am going towardsKalyub town and I shall be absent one day or at most two days.for my breast is straitened, and let none of you follow me.'Then he fared forth and from that time to this we have heard notidings of him." Shams al Din was greatly troubled at the suddendisappearance of his brother and grieved with exceeding grief atthe loss and said to himself, "This is only because I chided andupbraided him the night before my departure with the Sultan.haply his feelings were hurt and he fared forth a travelling. butI must send after him." Then he went in to the Sultan andacquainted him with what had happened and wrote letters anddispatches, which he sent by running footmen to his deputies inevery province. But during the twenty days of his brother'sabsence Nur al Din had travelled far and had reached Bassorah. soafter diligent search the messengers failed to come at any newsof him and returned. Thereupon Shams al Din despaired of findinghis brother and said, "Indeed I went beyond all bounds in what Isaid to him with reference to the marriage of our children.Would that I had not done so! This all cometh of my lack of witand want of caution." Soon after this he sought in marriage thedaughter of a Cairene merchant, and drew up the marriagecontract and went in to her. And it so chanced that, on the verysame night when Shams al Din went in to his wife, Nur al Din alsowent in to his wife the daughter of the Wazir of Bassorah. thisbeing in accordance with the will of Almighty Allah, that Hemight deal the decrees of Destiny to His creatures. Furthermore,it was as the two brothers had said. for their two wives becamepregnant by them on the same night and both were brought to bedon the same day. the wife of Shams al Din, Wazir of Egypt, of adaughter, never in Cairo was seen a fairer. and the wife of Nural Din of a son, none more beautiful was ever seen in his time,as one of the poets said concerning the like of him: That jetty hair, that glossy brow,My slender waisted youth, of thine,Can darkness round creation throw,Or make it brightly shine.The dusky mole that faintly showsUpon his cheek, ah! blame it not:The tulip flower never blowsUndarkened by its spotAnd as another also said: His scent was musk and his cheek was rose. His teeth are pearlsand his lips drop wine.His form is a brand and his hips a hill. His hair is night andhis face moon shine.They named the boy Badr al Din Hasan and his grandfather, theWazir of Bassorah, rejoiced in him and, on the seventh day afterhis birth, made entertainments and spread banquets which wouldbefit the birth of Kings' sons and heirs. Then he took Nur al Din and went up with him to the Sultan, and his son in law, whenhe came before the presence of the King, kissed the groundbetween his hands and repeated these verses, for he was ready ofspeech, firm of sprite and good in heart as he was goodly inform: "The world's best joys long be thy lot, my lord! And last whiledarkness and the dawn o'erlap:O thou who makest, when we greet thy gifts, The world to danceand Time his palms to clap."Then the Sultan rose up to honour them, and thanking Nur al Dinfor his fine compliment, asked the Wazir, "Who may be this youngman?". and the Minister answered, "This is my brother's son," andrelated his tale from first to last. Quoth the Sultan, "And howcomes he to be thy nephew and we have never heard speak of him?"Quoth the Minister, "O our lord the Sultan, I had a brother whowas Wazir in the land of Egypt and he died, leaving two sons,whereof the elder hath taken his father's place and the younger,whom thou seest, came to me. I had sworn I would not marry mydaughter to any but to him. so when he came I married him to her.Now he is young and I am old. my hearing is dulled andmy judgement is easily fooled. wherefore I would solicit our lordthe Sultan to set him in my stead, for he is mybrother's son and my daughter's husband. and he is fit for theWazirate, being a man of good counsel and ready contrivance."The Sultan looked at Nur al Din and liked him, so he stablishedhim in office as the Wazir had requested and formally appointedhim, presenting him with a splendid dress of honour and a she mule from his private stud. and assigning to him solde, stipendsand supplies. Nur al Din kissed the Sultan's hand and went home,he and his father in law, joying with exceeding joy and saying,"All this followeth on the heels of the boy Hasan's birth!" Nextday he presented himself before the King and, kissing the ground,began repeating: "Grow thy weal and thy welfare day by day: And thy luckprevail o'er the envier's spite.And ne'er cease thy days to be white as day, And thy foeman'sday to be black as night!"The Sultan bade him be seated on the Wazir's seat, so he sat downand applied himself to the business of his office and went intothe cases of the lieges and their suits, as is the wont ofMinisters. while the Sultan watched him and wondered at his witand good sense, judgement and insight. Wherefor he loved him andtook him into intimacy. When the Divan was dismissed Nur al Dinreturned to his house and related what had passed to his father in law who rejoiced. And thenceforward Nur al Din ceased not soto administer the Wazirate that the Sultan would not be partedfrom him night or day. and increased his stipend and suppliesuntil his means were ample and he became the owner of ships thatmade trading voyages at his command, as well as of Mamelukes andblackamoor slaves. and he laid out many estates and set upPersian wheels and planted gardens. When his son Hasan was fouryears of age, the old Wazir deceased and he made for his father in law a sumptuous funeral ceremony ere he was laid in the dust.Then he occupied himself with the education of this son and, whenthe boy waxed strong and came to the age of seven, he brought hima Fakih, a doctor of law and religion, to teach him in his ownhouse and charged him to give him a good education and instructhim in politeness and manners. So the tutor made the boy readand retain all varieties of useful knowledge, after he had spentsome years in learning the Koran by heart. and he ceasednot to grow in beauty and stature and symmetry, even as saith thepoet: In his face sky shines the fullest moon. In his cheeks' anemoneglows the sun:He so conquered Beauty that he hath won All charms ofhumanity one by one.The professor brought him up in his father's palace teaching himreading, writing and cyphering, theology and belles lettres. Hisgrandfather the old Wazir had bequeathed to him the whole of hisproperty when he was but four years of age. Now during all thetime of his earliest youth he had never left the house, till on acertain day his father, the Wazir Nur al Din, clad him in hisbest clothes and, mounting him on a she mule of the finest, wentup with him to the Sultan. The King gazed at Badr al Din Hasanand marvelled at his comeliness and loved him. As for the city folk, when he first passed before them with his father, theymarvelled at his exceeding beauty and sat down on the roadexpecting his return, that they might look their fill on hisbeauty and loveliness and symmetry and perfect grace. even as thepoet said in these verses: As the sage watched the stars, the semblance clearOf a fair youth on 's scroll he saw appear.Those jetty locks Canopus o'er him threw,And tinged his temple curls a musky hue.Mars dyed his ruddy cheek. and from his eyesThe Archer star his glittering arrow flies.His wit from Hermes came. and Soha's care,(The half seen star that dimly haunts the Bear)Kept off all evil eyes that threaten and ensnare,The sage stood mazed to see such fortunes meet,And Luna kissed the earth beneath his feet.And they blessed him aloud as he passed and called upon AlmightyAllah to bless him. The Sultan entreated the lad withespecial favour and said to his father, "O Wazir, thou must needsbring him daily to my presence." whereupon he replied, "I hearand I obey." Then the Wazir returned home with his son andceased not to carry him to court till he reached the age oftwenty. At that time the Minister sickened and, sending for Badral Din Hasan, said to him, "Know, O my son, that the world of thePresent is but a house of mortality, while that of the Future isa house of eternity. I wish, before I die, to bequeath theecertain charges and do thou take heed of what I say and inclinethy heart to my words." Then he gave him last instructions as tothe properest way of dealing with his neighbours and the duemanagement of his affairs. after which he called to mind hisbrother and his home and his native land and wept over hisseparation from those he had first loved. Then he wiped away histears and, turning to his son, said to him, "Before I proceed, Omy son, to my last charges and injunctions, know that I have abrother, and thou hast an uncle, Shams al Din hight, the Wazir ofCairo, which whom I parted, leaving him against his will. Nowtake thee a sheet of paper and write upon it whatso I say tothee." Badr al Din took a fair leaf and set about doing hisfather's bidding and he wrote thereon a full account of what hadhappened to his sire first and last. the dates of his arrival atBassorah and of his foregathering with the Wazir. of hismarriage, of his going in to the Minister's daughter and of thebirth of his son. brief, his life of forty years from the date ofhis dispute with his brother, adding the words, "And this iswritten at my dictation and may Almighty Allah be with him when Iam gone!" Then he folded the paper and sealed it and said, "OHasan, O my son, keep this paper with all care. for it willenable thee to stablish thine origin and rank and lineage and, ifanything contrary befal thee, set out for Cairo and ask for thineuncle and show him this paper and say to him that I died astranger far from mine own people and full of yearning to see himand them." So Badr al Din Hasan took the document and folded it.and, wrapping it up in a piece of waxed cloth of his skull capand wound his light turband round it. And he fell toweeping over his father and at parting with him, and he but aboy. Then Nur al Din lapsed into a swoon, the forerunner ofdeath. but presently recovering himself he said, "O Hasan, O myson, I will now bequeath to thee five last behests. The FIRSTBEHEST is, Be over intimate with none, nor frequent any, nor befamiliar with any. so shalt thou be safe from his mischief.for security lieth in seclusion of thought and a certainretirement from the society of thy fellows. and I have heard itsaid by a poet: In this world there is none thou mayst count upon To befriendthy case in the nick of need:So live for thyself nursing hope of none Such counsel I givethee: enow, take heed!The SECOND BEHEST is, O my son: Deal harshly with none lestfortune with thee deal hardly. for the fortune of this world isone day with thee and another day against thee and all worldlygoods are but a loan to be repaid. And I have heard a poet say: Take thought nor hast to win the thing thou wilt. Have ruth onman for ruth thou may'st require:No hand is there but Allah's hand is higher. No tyrant butshall rue worse tyrant's ire!The THIRD BEHEST is, Learn to be silent in society and let thineown faults distract thine attention from the faults of other men:for it is said: In silence dwelleth safety, and thereon I haveheard the lines that tell us: Reserve's a jewel, Silence safety is. Whenas thou speakest manya word withhold.For an of Silence thou repent thee once, Of speech thou shaltrepent times manifold.The FOURTH BEHEST, O my son, is Beware of wine bibbing, for wineis the head of all frowardness and a fine solvent of human wits.So shun, and again I say, shun mixing strong liquor. for I haveheard a poet say : From wine I turn and whoso wine cups swill.Becoming one of those who deem it ill:Wine driveth man to miss salvation way, And opes thegateway wide to sins that kill.The FIFTH BEHEST, O my son, is Keep thy wealth and it will keepthee. guard thy money and it will guard thee. and waste not thysubstance lest haply thou come to want and must fare a beggingfrom the meanest of mankind. Save thy dirhams and deem them thesovereignest salve for the wounds of the world. And here again Ihave heard that one of the poets said: When fails my wealth no friend will deign befriend: Whenwealth abounds all friends their friendship tender:How many friends lent aid my wealth to spend. But friends tolack of wealth no friendship render.On this wise Nur al Din ceased not to counsel his son Badr al DinHasan till his hour came and, sighing one sobbing sigh, his lifewent forth. Then the voice of mourning and keening rose high inhis house and the Sultan and all the grandees grieved for him andburied him. but his son ceased not lamenting his loss for twomonths, during which he never mounted horse, nor attended theDivan nor presented himself before the Sultan. At last the King,being wroth with him, stablished in his stead one of theChamberlains and made him Wazir, giving orders to seize and setseals on all Nur al Din's houses and goods and domains. So thenew Wazir went forth with a mighty posse of Chamberlains andpeople of the Divan, and watchmen and a host of idlers to do thisand to seize Badr al Din Hasan and carry him before the King, whowould deal with him as he deemed fit. Now there was among thecrowd of followers a Mameluke of the deceased Wazir who, when heheard this order, urged his horse and rode at full speed to thehouse of Badr al Din Hasan. for he cold not endure to see theruin of his old master's son. He found him sitting at the gatewith head hung down and sorrowing, as was his wont, for the lossof his father. so he dismounted and kissing his hand said to him,"O my lord and son of my lord, haste ere ruin come and laywaste!" When Hasan heard this he trembled and asked, "What maybe the matter?. and the man answered, "The Sultan is angered withthee and hath issued a warrant against thee, and evil cometh hardupon my track. so flee with thy life!" At these words Hasan'sheart flamed with the fire of bale, and his rose red cheek turnedpale, and he said to the "Mameluke, "O my brother, is there timefor me to go in and get me some worldly gear which may stand mein stead during my strangerhood?" But the slave replied, "O mylord, up at once and save thyself and leave this house, while itis yet time." And he quoted these lines: "Escape with thy life, if oppression betide thee, And let thehouse of its builder's fate!Country for country thou'lt find, if thou seek it. Life forlife never, early or late.It is strange men should dwell in the house of abjection, Whenthe plain of God's earth is so wide and so great!"At these words of the Mameluke, Badr al Din covered his head withthe skirt of his garment and went forth on foot till he stoodoutside of the city, where he heard folk saying, "The Sultan hathsent his new Wazir to the house of the old Wazir, now no more, toseal his property and seize his son Badr al Din Hasan and takehim before the presence, that he may put him to death. " and allcried, "Alas for his beauty and his loveliness!" When he heardthis he fled forth at hazard, knowing not whither he was going,and gave not over hurrying onwards till Destiny drove him to hisfather's tomb. So he entered the cemetery and, threading his waythrough the graves, at last he reached the sepulchre where he satdown and let fall from his head the skirt of his long robewhich was made of brocade with a gold embroidered hemwhereon were worked these couplets: O thou whose forehead, like the radiant East, Tells of thestars of Heaven and bounteous dews:Endure thine honour to the latest day, And Time thy growth ofglory ne'er refuse!While he was sitting by his father's tomb behold, there came tohim a Jew as he were a Shroff, a money changer, with apair of saddle bags containing much gold, who accosted him andkissed his hand, saying, "Whither bound, O my lord. 'tis late inthe day and thou art clad but lightly, and I read signs oftrouble in thy face?" "I was sleeping within this very hour,"answered Hasan, "when my father appeared to me and chid me fornot having visited his tomb. so I awoke trembling and came hitherforthright lest the day should go by without my visiting him,which would have been grievous to me." "O my lord," rejoined theJew, "thy father had many merchantmen at sea and, assome of them are now due, it is my wish to buy of thee the cargoof the first ship that cometh into port with this thousand dinarsof gold." "I consent," quoth Hasan, whereupon the Jew took out abag of gold and counted out a thousand sequins which he gave toHasan, the son of the Wazir, saying, "Write me a letter of saleand seal it." So Hasan took a pen and paper and wrote thesewords in duplicate, "The writer, Hasan Badr al Din, son of WazirNur al Din, hath to Isaac the Jew all the cargo of the first ofhis father's ships which cometh into port, for a thousand dinars,and he hath received the price in advance." And after he hadtaken one copy the Jew put it into his pouch and went away. butHasan fell a weeping as he thought of the dignity and prosperitywhich had erst been his and he began reciting: "This house, my lady, since you left is now a home no more Forme, not neighbours, since you left, prove kind andneighbourly:The friend, whilere I took to heart, alas! no more to me Isfriend. and even Luna's self displayeth lunacy:You left and by your going left the world a waste, a wolf, Andlies a gloomy murk upon the face of hill and lea:O may the raven bird whose cry our hapless parting croakedFind ne'er a nesty home and eke shed all his plumery!At length my patience fails me. and this absence wastes myflesh. How many a veil by severance rent our eyes aredoomed see:Ah! shall I ever sight again our fair past nights of your. Andshall a single house become a home for me once more?"Then he wept with exceeding weeping and night came upon him. sohe leant his head against his father's grave and sleep overcamehim: Glory to him who sleepeth not! He ceased not slumberingtill the moon rose, when his head slipped from off the tomb andhe lay on his back, with limbs outstretched, his face shiningbright in the moonlight. Now the cemetery was haunted day andnight by Jinns who were of the True Believers, and presently cameout a Jinniyah who, seeing Hasan asleep, marvelled at his beautyand loveliness and cried, "Glory to God! This youth can be noneother than one of the Wuldan of Paradise. Then she flewfirmament wards to circle it, as was her custom, and met an Ifriton the wing who saluted her and she said to him, "Whence comestthou?" "From Cairo," he replied. "Wilt thou come with me andlook upon the beauty of a youth who sleepeth in yonder burialplace?" she asked and he answered, "I will." So they flew tillthey lighted at the tomb and she showed him the youth and said,"Now diddest thou ever in thy born days see aught like this?"The Ifrit looked upon him and exclaimed, "Praise be to Him thathath no equal! But, O my sister, shall I tell thee what I haveseen this day?" Asked she, "What is that?" and he answered, "Ihave seen the counterpart of this youth in the land of Egypt.She is the daughter of the Wazir Shams al Din and she is a modelof beauty and loveliness, of fairest favour and formous form, anddight with symmetry and perfect grace. When she had reached theage of nineteen, the Sultan of Egypt heard of her and,sending for the Wazir her father, said to him, 'Hear me, O Wazir:it hath reached mine ear that thou hast a daughter and I wish todemand her of thee in marriage." The Wazir replied, "O our lordthe Sultan, deign accept my excuses and take compassion on mysorrows, for thou knowest that my brother, who was partner withme in the Wazirate, disappeared from amongst us many years agoand we wot not where he is. Now the cause of his departure wasthat one night, as we were sitting together and talking of wivesand children to come, we had words on the matter and he went offin high dudgeon. But I swore that I would marry my daughter tonone save to the son of my brother on the day her mother gave herbirth, which was nigh upon nineteen years ago. I have latelyheard that my brother died at Bassorah, where he married thedaughter of the Wazir and that she bare him a son. and I will notmarry my daughter but to him in honour of my brother's memory. Irecorded the date of my marriage and the conception of my wifeand the birth of my daughter. and from her horoscope I find thather name is conjoined with that of her cousin. and thereare damsels in foison for our lord the Sultan.' The King,hearing his Minister's answer and refusal, waxed wroth withexceeding wrath and cried, 'When the like of me asketh a girl inmarriage of the like of thee, he conferreth an honour, and thourejectest me and puttest me off with cold excuses! Now,by the life of my head I will marry her to the meanest of my menin spite of the nose of thee! There was in the palace ahorse groom which was a Gobbo with a bunch to his breast and ahunch to his back. and the Sultan sent for him and married him tothe daughter of the Wazir, lief or loath, and hath ordered apompous marriage procession for him and that he go in to hisbride this very night. I have now just flown hither from Cairo,where I left the Hunchback at the door of the Hammam bath amidstthe Sultan's white slaves who were waving lighted flambeaux abouthim. As for the Minister's daughter she sitteth among her nursesand tirewomen, weeping and wailing. for they have forbidden herfather to come near her. Never have I seen, O my sister, morehideous being than this Hunchback whilest the young ladyis the likest of all folk to this young man, albeit even fairerthan he," And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased herpermitted say.When it was the Twenty second Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when theJinni narrated to the Jinniyah how the King had caused thewedding contract to be drawn up between the hunchbacked groom andthe lovely young lady who was heart broken for sorrow. and howshe was the fairest of created things and even more beautifulthan this youth, the Jinniyah cried at him "Thou liest! thisyouth is handsomer than any one of his day." The Ifrit gave herthe lie again, adding, "By Allah, O my sister, the damsel I speakof is fairer than this. yet none but he deserveth her, for theyresemble each other like brother and sister or at least cousins.And, well away! how she is wasted upon that Hunchback!" Thensaid she, "O my brother, let us get under him and lift him up andcarry him to Cairo, that we may compare him with the damsel ofwhom thou speakest and so determine whether of the twain is thefairer." "To hear is to obey!" replied he, "thou speakest to thepoint. nor is there a righter recking than this of thine, and Imyself will carry him." So he raised him from the ground andflew with him like a bird soaring in upper air, the Ifritahkeeping close by his side at equal speed, till he alighted withhim in the city of Cairo and set him down on a stone bench andwoke him up. He roused himself and finding that he was no longerat his father's tomb in Bassorah city he looked right and leftand saw that he was in a strange place. and he would have criedout. but the Ifrit gave him a cuff which persuaded him to keepsilence. Then he brought him rich raiment and clothed himtherein and, giving him a lighted flambeau, said, "Know that Ihave brought thee hither, meaning to do thee a good turn for thelove of Allah: so take this torch and mingle with the people atthe Hammam door and walk on with them without stopping till thoureach the house of the wedding festival. then go boldly forwardand enter the great saloon. and fear none, but take thy stand atthe right hand of the Hunchback bridegroom. and, as often as anyof the nurses and tirewomen and singing girls come up to thee,put thy hand into thy pocket which thou wilt find filledwith gold. Take it out and throw it to them and spare not. foras often as thou thrustest fingers in pouch thou shalt find itfull of coin. Give largesse by handsful and fear nothing, butset thy trust upon Him who created thee, for this is not by thineown strength but by that of Allah Almighty, that His decrees maytake effect upon his creatures." When Badr al Din Hasan heardthese words from the Ifrit he said to himself, "Would Heaven Iknew what all this means and what is the cause of such kindness!"However, he mingled with the people and, lighting his flambeau,moved on with the bridal procession till he came to the bathwhere he found the Hunchback already on horseback. Then hepushed his way in among the crowd, a veritable beauty of a man inthe finest apparel, wearing tarbush and turband and along sleeved robe purfled with gold. and, as often as thesinging women stopped for the people to give them largesse, hethrust his hand into his pocket and, finding it full of gold,took out a handful and threw it on the tambourine tillhe had filled it with gold pieces for the music girls and thetirewomen. The singers were amazed by his bounty and the peoplemarvelled at his beauty and loveliness and the splendour of hisdress. He ceased not to do thus till he reached the mansion ofthe Wazir (who was his uncle), where the Chamberlains drove backthe people and forbade them to go forward. but the singing girlsand the tirewomen said, "By Allah we will not enter unless thisyoung man enter with us, for he hath given us length o' life withhis largesse and we will not display the bride unless he bepresent." Therewith they carried him into the bridal hall andmade him sit down defying the evil glances of the hunchbackedbridegroom. The wives of the Emirs and Wazirs and Chamberlainsand Courtiers all stood in double line, each holding a massycierge ready lighted. all wore thin face veils and the two rowsright and left extended from the bride's throne to thehead of the hall adjoining the chamber whence she was to comeforth. When the ladies saw Badr al Din Hasan and noted hisbeauty and loveliness and his face that shone like the new moon,their hearts inclined to him and the singing girls said to allthat were present, "Know that this beauty crossed our hands withnaught but red gold. so be not chary to do him womanly serviceand comply with all he says, no matter what he ask. Soall the women crowded around Hasan with their torches and gazedupon his loveliness and envied him his beauty. and one and allwould gladly have lain on his bosom an hour or rather a year.Their hearts were so troubled that they let fall their veils frombefore their faces and said, "Happy she who belongeth to thisyouth or to whom he belongeth!". and they called down curses onthe crooked groom and on him who was the cause of his marriage tothe girl beauty. and as often as they blessed Badr al Din Hasanthey damned the Hunchback, saying, "Verily this youth and noneelse deserveth our Bride: Ah, well away for such a lovely onewith this hideous Quasimodo. Allah's curse light on his head andon the Sultan who commanded the marriage!" Then the singing girls beat their tabrets and lulliloo'd with joy, announcing theappearing of the bride. and the Wazir's daughter came insurrounded by her tirewomen who had made her goodly to look upon.for they had perfumed her and incensed her and adorned her hair.and they had robed her in raiment and ornaments befitting themighty Chosroes Kings. The most notable part of her dress was aloose robe worn over her other garments. it was diapered in redgold with figures of wild beasts, and birds whose eyes and beakswere of gems, and claws of red rubies and green beryl. and herneck was graced with a necklace of Yamani work, worth thousandsof gold pieces, whose bezels were great round jewels of sorts,the like of which was never owned by Kaysar or by Tobba King.And the bride was as the full moon when at fullest onfourteenth night. and as she paced into the hall she was like oneof the Houris of Heaven praise be to Him who created her in suchsplendour of beauty! The ladies encompassed her as the whitecontains the black of the eye, they clustering like stars whilstshe shone amongst them like the moon when it eats up the clouds.Now Badr al Din Hasan of Bassorah was sitting in full gaze of thefolk, when the bride came forward with her graceful swaying andswimming gait, and her hunchbacked groom stood up to meetand receive her: she, however, turned away from thewight and walked forward till she stood before her cousin Hasan,the son of her uncle. Whereat the people laughed. But when thewedding guests saw her thus attracted towards Badr al Din theymade a mighty clamour and the singing women shouted theirloudest. whereupon he put his hand into his pocket and, pullingout a handful of gold, cast it into their tambourines and thegirls rejoiced and said, "Could we win our wish this bride werethine!" At this he smiled and the folk came round him, flambeauxin hand like the eyeball round the pupil, while the Gobbobridegroom was left sitting alone much like a tail less baboon.for every time they lighted a candle for him it went out willy nilly, so he was left in darkness and silence and looking atnaught but himself. When Badr al Din Hasan saw thebridegroom sitting lonesome in the dark, and all the wedding guests with their flambeaux and wax candles crowding aroundhimself, he was bewildered and marvelled much. but when he lookedat his cousin, the daughter of his uncle, he rejoiced and felt aninward delight: he longed to greet her and gazed intently on herface which was radiant with light and brilliancy. Then thetirewomen took off her veil and displayed her in the first bridaldress which was of scarlet satin. and Hasan had a view of herwhich dazzled his sight and dazed his wits, as she moved to andfro, swaying with graceful gait. and she turned theheads of all the guests, women as well as men, for she was evenas saith the surpassing poet: A sun on wand in knoll of sand she showed Clad in hercramoisy hued chemisette:Of her lips honey dew she gave me drink, And with her rosycheeks quencht fire she set.Then they changed that dress and displayed her in a robe ofazure. and she reappeared like the full moon when it riseth overthe horizon, with her coal black hair and cheeks delicately fair.and teeth shown in sweet smiling and breasts firm rising andcrowning sides of the softest and waist of the roundest. And inthis second suit she was as a certain master of high conceitssaith of the like of her: She came apparrelled in an azure vest, Ultramarine, as skiesare deckt and dight.I view'd th' unparrellel'd sight, which show'd my eyes A moonof Summer on a Winter night.Then they changed that suit for another and, veiling her face inthe luxuriance of her hair, loosed her lovelocks, so dark, solong that their darkness and length outvied the darkest nights,and she shot through all hearts with the magical shaft of hereye babes. They displayed her in the third dress and she was assaid of her the sayer: Veiling her cheeks with hair a morn she comes, And I hermischiefs with the cloud compare:Saying, "Thou veilest morn with night!" "Ah, no!" Quoth she,"I shroud full moon with darkling air!"Then they displayed her in the fourth bridal dress and she cameforward shining like the rising sun and swaying to and fro withlovesome grace and supple ease like a gazelle fawn. And sheclave all hearts with the arrows of her eyelashes, even as saithone who described a charmer like her: The sun of beauty she to sight appears And, lovely coy, shemocks all loveliness.And when he fronts her favour and her smile A morn, the Sun ofday in clouds must dress.Then she came forth in the fifth dress, a very light ofloveliness like a wand of waving willow or a gazelle of thethirsty wold. Those locks which stung like scorpions along hercheeks were bent, and her neck was bowed in blandishment, and herhips quivered as she went. As saith one of the poets describingher in verse: She comes like fullest moon on happy night. Taper of waist,with shape of magic might:She hath an eye whose glances quell mankind, And Ruby on hercheeks reflects his light:Enveils her hips the blackness of her hair. Beware of curls thatbite with viper bite!Her sides are silken soft, the while the heart Mere rock behindthat surface lurks from sight:From the fringed curtains of her eyne she shoots Shafts whichat farthest range on mark alight:When round her neck or waist I throw my arms Her breasts repelme with their hardened height.Ah, how her beauty all excels! ah how That shape transcends thegraceful waving bough!Then they adorned her with the sixth toilette, a dress which wasgreen. And now she shamed her slender straightness the nut brownspear. her radiant face dimmed the brightest beams of full moonand she outdid the bending branches in gentle movement andflexible grace. Her loveliness exalted the beauties of earth'sfour quarters and she broke men's hearts by the significance ofher semblance. for she was even as saith one of the poets inthese lines: A damsel 'twas the tirer's art had decked with snares andsleight. And robed in rays as though the sun fromher had borrowed light:She came before us wondrous clad in chemisette of green, Asveiled by its leafy screen pomegranate hides from sight:And when he said "How callest thou the manner of thy dress?"She answered us in pleasant way with double meaning dight."We call this garment creve coeur. and rightly is it hight, Formany a heart wi' this we broke and conquered manya sprite!"Then they displayed her in the seventh dress, coloured betweensafflower and saffron, even as one of the poets saith: In vest of saffron pale and safflower red Musk'd, sandal'dambergris'd, she came to front:"Rise!" cried her youth, "go forth and show thyself!" "Sit!"said her hips, "we cannot bear the brunt!"And when I craved a bout, her Beauty said "Do, do!" and saidher pretty shame, "Don't, don't!"Thus they displayed the bride in all her seven toilettes beforeHasan al Basri, wholly neglecting the Gobbo who sat moping alone.and, when she opened her eyes she said, "O Allah makethis man my goodman and deliver me from the evil of thishunchbacked groom." As soon as they had made an end of this partof the ceremony they dismissed the wedding guests who went forth,women, children and all, and none remained save Hasan and theHunchback, whilst the tirewomen led the bride into an inner roomto change her garb and gear and get her ready for the bridegroom.Thereupon Quasimodo came up to Badr al Din Hasan and said, "O mylord, thou hast cheered us this night with thy good company andoverwhelmed us with thy kindness and courtesy. but now why notget thee up and go?" "Bismallah," he answered, "In Allah's nameso be it!" and rising, he went forth by the door, where the Ifritmet him and said, "Stay in thy stead, O Badr al Din, and when theHunchback goes out to the closet of ease go in without losingtime and seat thyself in the alcove. and when the bride comes sayto her, "'Tis I am thy husband, for the King devised this trickonly fearing for thee the evil eye, and he whom thou sawest isbut a Syce, a groom, one of our stablemen.' Then walk boldly upto her and unveil her face. for jealousy hath taken us of thismatter." While Hasan was still talking with the Ifrit behold,the groom fared forth from the hall and entering the closet ofease sat down on the stool. Hardly had he done this when theIfrit came out of the tank, wherein the water was, insemblance of a mouse and squeaked out "Zeek!" Quoth theHunchback, "What ails thee?". and the mouse grew and grew till itbecame a coal black cat and caterwauled "Meeao! Meeao!"Then it grew still more and more till it became a dog and barkedout "Owh! Owh!" When the bridegroom saw this he was frightenedand exclaimed "Out with thee, O unlucky one!" But thedog grew and swelled till it became an ass colt that brayed andsnorted in his face "Hauk! Hauk!" Whereupon theHunchback quaked and cried, "Come to my aid, O people of thehouse!" But behold, the ass colt grew and became big as abuffalo and walled the way before him and spake with the voice ofthe sons of Adam, saying, "Woe to thee, O thou Bunch back, thoustinkard, O thou filthiest of grooms!" Hearing this the groomwas seized with a colic and he sat down on the jakes in hisclothes with teeth chattering and knocking together. Quoth theIfrit, "Is the world so strait to thee thou findest none to marrysave my lady love?" But as he was silent the Ifrit continued,"Answer me or I will do thee dwell in the dust!" "By Allah,"replied the Gobbo, "O King of the Buffaloes, this is no fault ofmine, for they forced me to wed her. and verily I wot not thatshe had a lover among the buffaloes. but now I repent, firstbefore Allah and then before thee." Said the Ifrit to him, "Iswear to thee that if thou fare forth from this place, or thouutter a word before sunrise, I assuredly will wring thy neck.When the sun rises wend thy went and never more return to thishouse." So saying, the Ifrit took up the Gobbo bridegroom andset him head downwards and feet upwards in the slit of the privy,and said to him, "I will leave thee here but I shall beon the look out for thee till sunrise. and, if thou stir beforethen, I will seize thee by the feet and dash out thy brainsagainst the wall: so look out for thy life!" Thus far concerningthe Hunchback, but as regards Badr al Din Hasan of Bassorah heleft the Gobbo and the Ifrit jangling and wrangling and, goinginto the house, sat him down in the very middle of the alcove.and behold, in came the bride attended by an old woman who stoodat the door and said, "O Father of Uprightness, ariseand take what God giveth thee." Then the old woman went away andthe bride, Sitt al Husn or the Lady of Beauty hight, entered theinner part of the alcove broken hearted and saying in herself,"By Allah I will never yield my person to him. no, not even werehe to take my life!" But as she came to the further end she sawBadr al Din Hasan and she said, "Dearling! Art thou still sittinghere? By Allah I was wishing that thou wert my bridegroom or, atleast, that thou and the hunchbacked horse groom were partners inme." He replied, "O beautiful lady, how should the Syce haveaccess to thee, and how should he share in thee with me?""Then," quoth she, "who is my husband, thou or he?" "Sitt al Husn," rejoined Hasan, "we have not done this for mere fun,but only as a device to ward off the evil eye from thee.for when the tirewomen and singers and wedding guests saw theybeauty being displayed to me, they feared fascination and thyfather hired the horse groom for ten dinars and a porringer ofmeat to take the evil eye off us. and now he hath received hishire and gone his gait." When the Lady of Beauty heard thesewords she smiled and rejoiced and laughed a pleasant laugh. Thenshe whispered him, "By the Lord thou hast quenched a fire whichtortured me and now, by Allah, O my little dark haired darling,take me to thee and press me to thy bosom!" Then she begansinging: "By Allah, set thy foot upon my soul. Since long, long yearsfor this alone I long:And whisper tale of love in ear of me. To me 'tis sweeter thanthe sweetest song!No other youth upon my heart shall lie. So do it often, dear,and do it long."Then she stripped off her outer gear and she threw open herchemise from the neck downwards and showed her parts genital andall the rondure of her hips. When Badr al Din saw the glorioussight his desires were roused, and he arose and doffed herclothes, and wrapping up in his bag trousers the purseof gold which he had taken from the Jew and which contained thethousand dinars, he laid it under the edge of the bedding. Thenhe took off his turband and set it upon the settle atopof his other clothes, remaining in his skull cap and fine shirtof blue silk laced with gold. Whereupon the Lady of Beauty drewhim to her and he did likewise. Then he took her to his embraceand set her legs round his waist and point blanked that cannonplaced where it battereth down the bulwark of maidenheadand layeth it waste. And he found her a pearl unpierced andunthridden and a filly by all men save himself unridden. and heabated her virginity and had joyance of her youth in his virilityand presently he withdrew sword from sheath. and then returned tothe fray right eath. and when the battle and the siege hadfinished, some fifteen assaults he had furnished and sheconceived by him that very night. Then he laid his hand underher head and she did the same and they embraced and fell asleepin each other's arms, as a certain poet said of such lovers inthese couplets: Visit thy lover, spurn what envy told. No envious churl shallsmile on love ensoul'd.Merciful Allah made no fairer sight Than coupled lovers singlecouch doth hold.Breast pressing breast and robed in joys their own, Withpillowed forearms cast in finest mould:And when heart speaks to heart with tongue of love, Folk whowould part them hammer steel ice cold:If a fair friend thou find who cleaves to thee, Livefor that friend, that friend in heart enfold.O ye who blame for love us lover kind Say, can ye minister todiseased mind?This much concerning Badr al Hasan and Sitt al Husn his cousin.but as regards the Ifrit, as soon as he saw the twain asleep, hesaid to the Ifritah, "Arise, slip thee under the youth and let uscarry him back to his place ere dawn overtake us. for the day isnearhand." Thereupon she came forward and, getting under him ashe lay asleep, took him up clad only in his fine blue shirt,leaving the rest of his garments. and ceased not flying (and theIfrit vying with her in flight) till the dawn advised them thatit had come upon them mid way, and the Muezzin began his callfrom the Minaret, "Haste ye to salvation! Haste ye tosalvation!" Then Allah suffered his angelic host toshoot down the Ifrit with a shooting star, so he wasconsumed, but the Ifritah escaped and she descended with Badr al Din at the place where the Ifrit was burnt, and did not carry himback to Bassorah, fearing lest he come to harm. Now by the orderof Him who predestineth all things, they alighted at Damascus ofSyria, and the Ifritah set down her burden at one of the city gates and flew away. When day arose and the doors were opened,the folks who came forth saw a handsome youth, with no otherraiment but his blue shirt of gold embroidered silk and skull cap, lying upon the ground drowned in sleep after thehard labour of the night which had not suffered him to take hisrest. So the folk looking at him said, "O her luck with whomthis one spent the night! but would he had waited to don hisgarments." Quoth another, "A sorry lot are the sons of greatfamilies! Haply he but now came forth of the tavern on someoccasion of his own and his wine flew to his head,whereby he hath missed the place he was making for and strayedtill he came to the gate of the city. and finding it shut lay himdown and to by by!" As the people were bandying guesses abouthim suddenly the morning breeze blew upon Badr al Din and raisinghis shirt to his middle showed a stomach and navel with somethingbelow it, and legs and thighs clear as crystal andsmooth as cream. Cried the people, "By Allah he is a prettyfellow!". and at the cry Badr al din awoke and found himselflying at a city gate with a crowd gathered around him. At thishe greatly marvelled and asked, "Where am I, O good folk. andwhat causeth you thus to gather round me, and what have I had todo with you?". and they answered, "We found thee lying hereasleep during the call to dawn prayer and this is all we know ofthe matter, but where diddest thou lie last night?" "ByAllah, O good people," replied he, "I lay last night in Cairo."Said somebody, "Thou hast surely been eating Hashish,"and another, "He is a fool." and a third, "He is a citrouille."and a fourth asked him, "Art thou out of thy mind? thou sleepestin Cairo and thou wakest in the morning at the gate of Damascus city!" Cried he, "By Allah, my good people, one andall, I lie not to you: indeed I lay yesternight in the land ofEgypt and yesternoon I was at Bassorah." Quoth one, "Well!well!". and quoth another, "Ho! ho!". and a third, "So! so!". anda fourth cried, "This youth is mad, is possessed of the Jinni!"So they clapped hands at him and said to one another, "Alas, thepity of it for his youth: by Allah a madman! and madness is norespecter of persons." Then they said to him, "Collect thy witsand return to thy reason! How couldest thou be in Bassorahyesterday and Cairo yesternight and withal awake in Damascus thismorning?" But he persisted, "Indeed I was a bridegroom in Cairolast night." "Belike thou hast been dreaming," rejoined they,"and sawest all this in thy sleep." So Hasan took thought for awhile and said to them, "By Allah, this is no dream. nor vision like doth it seem! I certainly was in Cairo where they displayedthe bride before me, in presence of a third person, the Hunchbackgroom who was sitting hard by. By Allah, O my brother, this beno dream, and if it were a dream, where is the bag of gold I borewith me and where are my turband and my robe, and my trousers?"Then he rose and entered the city, threading its highways and by ways and bazar streets. and the people pressed upon him andjeered at him, crying out "Madman! madman!" till he, besidehimself with rage, took refuge in a cook's shop. Now that Cookhad been a trifle too clever, that is, a rogue and thief. butAllah had made him repent and turn from his evil ways and open acook shop. and all the people of Damascus stood in fear of hisboldness and his mischief. So when the crowd saw the youth enterhis shop, they dispersed being afraid of him, and went theirways. The Cook looked at Badr al Din and, noting his beauty andloveliness, fell in love with him forthright and said, "Whencecomest thou, O youth? Tell me at once thy tale, for thou artbecome dearer to me than my soul." So Hasan recounted to him allthat had befallen him from beginning to end (but in repetitionthere is no fruition) and the Cook said, "O my lord Badr al Din,doubtless thou knowest that this case is wondrous and this storymarvellous. therefore, O my son, hide what hath betided thee,till Allah dispel what ills be thine. and tarry with me here themeanwhile, for I have no child and I will adopt thee." Badr al Din replied, "Be it as thou wilt, O my uncle!" Whereupon theCook went to the bazar and bought him a fine suit of clothes andmade him don it. then fared with him to the Kazi, and formallydeclared that he was his son. So Badr al Din Hasan became knownin Damascus city as the Cook's son and he sat with him in theshop to take the silver, and on this wise he sojourned there fora time. Thus far concerning him. but as regards his cousin, theLady of Beauty, when morning dawned she awoke and missed Badr al Din Hasan from her side. but she thought that he had gone to theprivy and she sat expecting him for an hour or so. when behold,entered her father Shams al Din Mohammed, Wazir of Egypt. Now hewas disconsolate by reason of what had befallen him through theSultan, who had entreated him harshly and had married hisdaughter by force to the lowest of his menials and he too a lumpof a groom bunch backed withal, and he said to himself, "I willslay this daughter of mine if of her own free will she haveyielded her person to this acursed carle." So he came to thedoor of the bride's private chamber and said, "Ho! Sitt al Husn." She answered him, "Here am I! here am I!" O mylord," and came out unsteady of gait after the pains andpleasures of the night. and she kissed his hand, her face showingredoubled brightness and beauty for having lain in the arms ofthat gazelle, her cousin. When her father, the Wazir, saw her insuch case, he asked her, "O thou accursed, art thou rejoicingbecause of this horse groom?", and Sitt al Husn smiled sweetlyand answered, "By Allah, don't ridicule me: enough of what passedyesterday when folk laughed at me, and evened me with that groom fellow who is not worthy to bring my husband's shoes or slippers.nay who is not worth the paring of my husband's nails! By theLord, never in my life have I nighted a night so sweet asyesternight!, so don't mock by reminding me of the Gobbo." Whenher parent heard her words he was filled with fury, and his eyesglared and stared, so that little of them showed save the whitesand he cried, "Fie upon thee! What words are these? 'Twas thehunchbacked horse groom who passed the night with thee!" "Allahupon thee," replied the Lady of Beauty, "do not worry me aboutthe Gobbo, Allah damn his father. and leave jesting withme. for this groom was only hired for ten dinars and a porringerof meat and he took his wage and went his way. As for me Ientered the bridal chamber, where I found my true bridegroomsitting, after the singer women had displayed me to him. the samewho had crossed their hands with red gold, till every pauper thatwas present waxed wealthy. and I passed the night on the breastof my bonny man, a most lively darling, with his black eyes andjoined eyebrows." When her parent heard these words thelight before his face became night, and he cried out at hersaying, "O thou whore! What is this thou tellest me? Where bethy wits?" "O my father," she rejoined, "thou breakest my heart.enough for thee that thou hast been so hard upon me! Indeed myhusband who took my virginity is but just now gone to thedraught house and I feel that I have conceived by him."The Wazir rose in much marvel and entered the privy where hefound the hunchbacked groom with his head in the hole, and hisheels in the air. At this sight he was confounded and said,"This is none other than he, the rascal Hunchback!" So he calledto him, "Ho Hunchback!" The Gobbo grunted out, "Taghum! Taghum!"thinking it was the Ifrit spoke to him. so the Wazirshouted at him and said, "Speak out, or I'll strike off thy patewith this sword." Then quoth the Hunchback, "By Allah, O Shaykhof the Ifrits, ever since thou settest me in this place, I havenot lifted my head. so Allah upon thee, take pity and entreat mekindly!" When the Wazir heard this he asked, "What is this thousayest? I'm bride's father and no Ifrit." "Enough for thee thatthou hast well nigh done me die, " answered Quasimodo. "now gothy ways before he come upon thee who hath served me thus. Couldye not marry me to any save the lady love of buffaloes and thebeloved of Ifrits? Allah curse her and curse him who married meto her and was the cause of this my case," And Shahrazadperceived the dawn of day, and ceased to say her permitted say.When it was the Twenty third Night,Said she, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that thehunchbacked groom spake to the bride's father saying, "Allahcurse him who was the cause of this my case!" Then said theWazir to him, "Up and out of this place!" "Am I mad," cried thegroom, "that I should go with thee without leave of the Ifritwhose last words to me were: "When the sun rises, arise and gothey gait." So hath the sun risen or no?. for I dare not budgefrom this place till then." Asked the Wazir, "Who brought theehither?". and he answered "I came here yesternight for a call ofnature and to do what none can do for me, when lo! a mouse cameout of the water, and squeaked at me and swelled and waxed grosstill it was big as a buffalo, and spoke to me words that enteredmy ears. Then he left me here and went away, Allah curse thebride and him who married me to her!" The Wazir walked up to himand lifted his head out of the cesspool hole. and he fared forthrunning for dear life and hardly crediting that the sun hadrisen. and repaired to the Sultan to whom he told all that hadbefallen him with the Ifrit. But the Wazir returned to thebride's private chamber, sore troubled in spirit about her, andsaid to her, "O my daughter, explain this strange matter to me!"Quoth she, "Tis simply this. The bridegroom to whom theydisplayed me yestereve lay with me all night, and took myvirginity and I am with child by him. He is my husband and ifthou believe me not, there are his turband, twisted as it was,lying on the settle and his dagger and his trousers beneath thebed with a something, I wot not what, wrapped up in them." Whenher father heard this he entered the private chamber and foundthe turband which had been left there by Badr al Din Hasan, hisbrother's son, and he took it in hand and turned it over, saying,"This is the turband worn by Wazirs, save that it is of Mosulstuff." So he opened it and, finding what seemed to bean amulet sewn up in the Fez, he unsewed the lining and took itout. then he lifted up the trousers wherein was the purse of thethousand gold pieces and, opening that also, found in it awritten paper. This he read and it was the sale receipt of theJew in the name of Badr al Din Hasan, son of Nur al Din Ali, theEgyptian. and the thousand dinars were also there. No sooner hadShams al Din read this than he cried out with a loud cry and fellto the ground fainting. and as soon as he revived and understoodthe gist of the matter he marvelled and said, "There is no God,but the God, who All might is over all things! Knowest thou, Omy daughter, who it was that became the husband of thyvirginity?" "No," answered she, and he said, "Verily he is theson of my brother, thy cousin, and this thousand dinars is thydowry. Praise be to Allah! and would I wot how this matter cameabout!" then opened he the amulet which was sewn up and foundtherein a paper in the handwriting of his deceased brother, Nural Din the Egyptian, father of Badr al Din Hasan. and, when hesaw the hand writing, he kissed it again and again. and he weptand wailed over his dead brother and improvised this lines: "I see their traces and with pain I melt, And on their whilomehomes I weep and yearn:And Him I pray who dealt this parting blow Some day he deignvouchsafe a safe return."When he ceased versifying, he read the scroll and found in itrecorded the dates of his brother's marriage with the daughter ofthe Wazir of Bassorah, and of his going in to her, and herconception, and the birth of Badr al Din Hasan and all hisbrother's history and doings up to his dying day. So hemarvelled much and shook with joy and, comparing the dates withhis own marriage and going in to his wife and the birth of theirdaughter, Sitt al Husn, he found that they perfectly agreed. Sohe took the document and, repairing with it to the Sultan,acquainted him with what had passed, from first to last. whereatthe King marvelled and commanded the case to be at once recorded.The Wazir abode that day expecting to see his brother'sson but he came not. and he waited a second day, a third day andso on to the seventh day, without any tidings of him. So hesaid, "By Allah, I will do a deed such as none hath ever donebefore me!". and he took reed pen and ink and drew upon a sheetof paper the plan of the whole house, showing whereabouts was theprivate chamber with the curtain in such a place and thefurniture in such another and so on with all that was in theroom. Then he folded up the sketch and, causing all thefurniture to be collected, he took Badr al Din's garments and theturband and Fez and robe and purse, and carried the whole to hishouse and locked them up, against the coming of his nephew, Badral Din Hasan, the son of his lost brother, with an iron padlockon which he set his seal. As for the Wazir's daughter, when hertale of months was fulfilled, she bare a son like the full moon,the image of his father in beauty and loveliness and fairproportions and perfect grace. They cut his navel stringand Kohl'd his eyelids to strengthen his eyes, and gavehim over to the nurses and nursery governesses, naminghim Ajib, the Wonderful. His day was as a month and his monthwas as a year. and, when seven years had passed overhim, his grandfather sent him to school, enjoining the master toteach him Koran reading, and to educate him well. he remained atthe school four years, till he began to bully his schoolfellowsand abuse them and bash them and thrash them and say, "Who amongyou is like me? I am the son of Wazir of Egypt!" At last theboys came in a body to the Monitor of what hard usagethey were wont to have from Ajib, and he said to them, "I willtell you somewhat you may do to him so that he shall leave offcoming to the school, and it is this. When he enters to morrow,sit ye down about him and say some one of you to some other, 'ByAllah none shall play with us at this game except he tell us thenames of his mamma and his papa. for he who knows not the namesof his mother and his father is a bastard, a son of adultery,and he shall not play with us.'" When morning dawnedthe boys came to school, Ajib being one of them, and all flockedaround him saying, "We will play a game wherein none can joinsave he can tell the name of his mamma and his papa." And theyall cried, "By Allah, good!" Then quoth one of them, "My name isMajid and my mammy's name is Alawiyah and my daddy's Izz al Din."Another spoke in like guise and yet a third, till Ajid's turncame, and he said, "MY name is Ajib, and my mother's is Sitt al Husn, and my father's Shams al Din, the Wazir of Cairo." "ByAllah," cried they, "the Wazir is not thy true father." Ajibanswered, "The Wazir is my father in very deed." Then the boysall laughed and clapped their hands at him, saying "He does notknow who is his papa: get out from among us, for none shall playwith us except he know his father's name." Thereupon theydispersed from around him and laughed him to scorn. so his breastwas straitened and he well nigh choked with tears and hurtfeelings. Then said the Monitor to him, "We know that the Waziris thy grandfather, the father of thy mother, Sitt al Husn, andnot thy father. As for thy father, neither dost thou know himnor yet do we. for the Sultan married thy mother to thehunchbacked horse groom. but the Jinni came and slept with herand thou hast no known father. Leave, then, comparing thyselftoo advantageously with the little ones of the school, till thouknow that thou hast a lawful father. for until then thou wiltpass for a child of adultery amongst them. Seest thou that noteven a huckster's son knoweth his own sire? Thy grandfather isthe Wazir of Egypt. but as for thy father we wot him not and wesay indeed that thou hast none. So return to thy sound senses!"When Ajib heard these insulting words from the Monitor and theschool boys and understood the reproach they put upon him, hewent out at once and ran to his mother, Sitt al Husn, tocomplain. but he was crying so bitterly that his tears preventedhis speech for a while. When she heard his sobs and saw histears her heart burned as though with fire for him, and she said,"O my son, why dost thou weep? Allah keep the tears from thineeyes! Tell me what hath betided thee?" So he told her all thathe heard from the boys and from the Monitor and ended withasking, "And who, O my mother, is my father?" She answered, "Thyfather is the Wazir of Egypt." but he said, "Do not lie to me.The Wazir is thy father, not mine! who then is my father? Exceptthou tell me the very truth I will kill myself with this hanger."When his mother heard him speak of his father she wept,remembering her cousin and her bridal night with him and all thatoccurred thereon and then, and she repeated these couplets: "Love in my heart they lit and went their ways, And all Ilove to furthest lands withdrew.And when they left me sufferance also left, And when we partedPatience bade adieu:They fled and flying with my joys they fled, In veryconsistency my spirit flew:They made my eyelids flow with severance tears And to theparting pang these drops are due:And when I long to see reunion day, My groans prolonging sorefor ruth I sue:Then in my heart of hearts their shapes I trace, And love andlonging care and cark renew:O ye, whose names cling round me like a cloak, Whose love yetcloser than a shirt I drew,Beloved ones! how long this hard despite? How long thisseverance and this coy shy flight?"Then she wailed and shrieked aloud and her son did the like. andbehold, in came the Wazir whose heart burnt within him at thesight of their lamentations, and he said, "What makes you weep?"So the Lady of Beauty acquainted him with what had happenedbetween her son and the school boys. and he also wept, calling tomind his brother and what had past between them and what hadbetided his daughter and how he had failed to find out whatmystery there was in the matter. Then he rose at once and,repairing to the audience hall, went straight to the King andtold his tale and craved his permission to traveleastward to the city of Bassorah and ask after his brother's son.Furthermore, he besought the Sultan to write for him letterspatent, authorising him to seize upon Badr al Din, his nephew andson in law, wheresoever he might find him. And he wept beforethe King, who had pity on him and wrote royal autographs to hisdeputies in all climes and countries and cities. whereatthe Wazir rejoiced and prayed for blessings on him. Then, takingleave of his Sovereign, he returned to his house, where heequipped himself and his daughter and his adopted child Ajib,with all things meet for a long march. and set out and travelledthe first day and the second and the third and so forth till hearrived at Damascus city. He found it a fair place abounding intrees and streams, even as the poet said of it: When I nighted and dayed in Damascus town, Time sware suchanother he ne'er should view:And careless we slept under wing of night, Till dappled Morn'gan her smiles renew:And dew drops on branch in their beauty hung, Like pearls to bedropt when the Zephyr blew:And the Lake was the page where birds read and note,And the clouds set points to what breezes wrote.The Wazir encamped on the open space called Al Hasa.and, after pitching tents, said to his servants, "A halt here fortwo days!" So they went into the city upon their severaloccasions, this to sell and this to buy. this to go to the Hammamand that to visit the Cathedral mosque of the Banu Umayyah, theOmmiades, whose like is not in this world. Ajib alsowent, with his attendant eunuch, for solace and diversion to thecity and the servant followed with a quarter staff ofalmond wood so heavy that if he struck a camel therewith thebeast would never rise again. When the people ofDamascus saw Ajib's beauty and brilliancy and perfect grace andsymmetry (for he was a marvel of comeliness and winningloveliness, softer than the cool breeze of the North, sweeterthan limpid waters to a man in drowth, and pleasanter than thehealth for which sick man sueth), a mighty many followed him,whilest others ran on before, and sat down on the road until heshould come up, that they might gaze on him, till, as Destiny haddecreed, the Eunuch stopped opposite the shop of Ajib's father,Badr al Din Hasan. Now his beard had grown long and thick andhis wits had ripened during the twelve years which had passedover him, and the Cook and ex rogue having died, the so calledHasan of Bassorah had succeeded to his goods and shop, for thathe had been formally adopted before the Kazi and witnesses. Whenhis son and the Eunuch stepped before him he gazed on Ajib and,seeing how very beautiful he was, his heart fluttered andthrobbed, and blood drew to blood and natural affection spake outand his bowels yearned over him. He had just dressed a conserveof pomegranate grains with sugar, and Heaven implanted lovewrought within him. so he called to his son Ajib and said, "O mylord, O thou who hast gotten the mastery of my heart and my veryvitals and to whom my bowels yearn. say me, wilt thou enter myhouse and solace my soul by eating of my meat?" Then his eyesstreamed with tears which he could not stay, for he bethought himof what he had been and what he had become. When Ajib heard hisfather's words his heart also yearned himwards and he looked atthe Eunuch and said to him, "Of a truth, O my good guard, myheart yearns to this cook. he is as one that hath a son far awayfrom him: so let us enter and gladden his heart by tasting of hishospitality. Perchance for our so doing Allah may reunite mewith my father." When the Eunuch heard these words he cried, "Afine thing this, by Allah! Shall the sons of Wazirs be seeneating in a common cook shop? Indeed I keep off the folk fromthee with this quarter staff lest they even look upon thee. and Idare not suffer thee to enter this shop at all." When Hasan ofBassorah heard his speech he marvelled and turned to the Eunuchwith the tears pouring down his cheeks. and Ajib said, "Verily myheart loves him!" But he answered, "Leave this talk, thou shaltnot go in." Thereupon the father turned to the Eunuch and said,"O worthy sir, why wilt thou not gladden my soul by entering myshop? O thou who art like a chestnut, dark without but white ofheart within! O thou of the like of whom a certain poet said" The Eunuch burst out a laughing and asked "Said what? Speakout by Allah and be quick about it." So Hasan the Bassoritebegan reciting these couplets: "If not master of manners or aught but discreet In thehousehold of Kings no trust could he take:And then for the Harem! what Eunuch is he Whomangels would serve for his service sake."The Eunuch marvelled and was pleased at these words, so he tookAjib by the hand and went into the cook's shop: whereupon Hasanthe Bassorite ladled into a saucer some conserve of pomegranate grains wonderfully good, dressed with almonds and sugar, saying,"You have honoured me with your company: eat then and health andhappiness to you!" Thereupon Ajib said to his father, "Sit theedown and eat with us. so perchance Allah may unite us with him welong for." Quoth Hasan, "O my son, hast thou then been afflictedin thy tender years with parting from those thou lovest?" QuothAjib, "Even so, O nuncle mine. my heart burns for the loss of abeloved one who is non other than my father. and indeed I comeforth, I and my grandfather, to circle and search theworld for him. Oh, the pity of it, and how I long to meet him!"Then he wept with exceeding for his own bereavement, whichrecalled to him his long separation from dear friends and fromhis mother. and the Eunuch was moved to pity for him. Then theyate together till they were satisfied. and Ajib and the slaverose and left the shop. Hereat Hasan the Bassorite felt asthough his soul had departed his body and had gone with them. forhe could not lose sight of the boy during the twinkling of aneye, albeit he knew not that Ajib was his son. So he locked uphis shop and hastened after them. and he walked so fast that hecame up with them before they had gone out of the western gate.The Eunuch turned and asked him, "What ails the?". and Badr al Din answered, "When ye went from me, meseemed my soul had gonewith you. and, as I had business without the city gate, Ipurposed to bear you company till my matter was ordered and soreturn." The Eunuch was angered and said to Ajib, "This is justwhat I feared! we ate that unlucky mouthful (which we are boundto respect), and here is the fellow following us from place toplace. for the vulgar are ever the vulgar." Ajib, turning andseeing the Cook just behind him, was wroth and his face reddenedwith rage and he said to the servant. "Let him walk the highwayof the Moslems. but, when we turn off it to our tents, and findthat he still follows us, we will send him about his businesswith a flea in his ear." Then he bowed his head and walked on,the Eunuch walking behind him. But Hasan of Bassorah followedthem to the plain Al Hasa. and, as they drew near to the tents,they turned round and saw him close on their heels. so Ajib wasvery angry, fearing that the Eunuch might tell his grandfatherwhat had happened. His indignation was the hotter forapprehension lest any say that after he had entered a cook shopthe cook had followed him. So he turned and looked at Hasan ofBassorah and found his eyes fixed on his own, for the father hadbecome a body without a soul. and it seemed to Ajib that his eyewas a treacherous eye or that he was some lewd fellow. So hisrage redoubled and, stooping down, he took up a stone weighinghalf a pound and threw it at his father. It struck him on theforehead, cutting it open from eye brow to eye brow and causingthe blood to stream down: and Hasan fell to the ground in a swoonwhilst Ajib and the Eunuch made for the tents. When the fathercame to himself he wiped away the blood and tore off a strip fromhis turband and bound up his head, blaming himself the while, andsaying, "I wronged the lad by shutting up my shop and following,so that he thought I was some evil minded fellow." Then hereturned to his place where he busied himself with the sale ofhis sweetmeats. and he yearned after his mother at Bassorah, andwept over her and broke out repeating: "Unjust it were to bid the World be just And blameher not: She ne'er was made for justice:Take what she gives thee, leave all grief aside, For now tofair and then to foul her lust is."So Hasan of Bassorah set himself steadily to sell his sweetmeats.but the Wazir, his uncle, halted in Damascus three days and thenmarched upon Emesa, and passing through that town he made enquirythere and at every place where he rested. Thence he fared on byway of Hamah and Aleppo and thence to Diyar Bakr and Maridin andMosul, still enquiring, till he arrived at Bassorah city. Here,as soon as he had secured a lodging, he presented himself beforethe Sultan, who entreated him with high honour and the respectdue to his rank, and asked the cause of his coming. The Waziracquainted him with his history and told him that the MinisterNur al Din was his brother. whereupon the Sultan exclaimed,"Allah have mercy upon him!" and added, "My good Sahib!". he was my Wazir for fifteen years and I loved himexceedingly. Then he died leaving a son who abode only a singlemonth after his father's death. since which time he hasdisappeared and we could gain no tidings of him. But his mother,who is the daughter of my former Minister, is still among us."When the Wazir Shams al Din heard that his nephew's mother wasalive and well, he rejoiced and said, "O King I much desire tomeet her." The King on the instant gave him leave to visit her.so he betook himself to the mansion of his brother, Nur al Din,and cast sorrowful glances on all things in and around it andkissed the threshold. Then he bethought him of his brother, Nural Din Ali, and how he had died in a strange land far from kithand kin and friends. and he wept and repeated these lines: "I wander 'mid these walls, my Layla's walls, And kissing thisand other wall I roam:'Tis not the walls or roof my heart so loves, But those who inthis house had made their home."Then he passed through the gate into a courtyard and found avaulted doorway builded of hardest syenite inlaid withsundry kinds of multi coloured marble. Into this he walked andwandered about the house and, throwing many a glance around, sawthe name of his brother, Nur al Din, written in gold wash uponthe walls. So he went up to the inscription and kissed it andwept and thought of how he had been separated from his brotherand had now lost him for ever, and he recited these couplets: "I ask of you from every rising sun, And eke I ask whenflasheth levenlight:When I pass my nights in passion pain, Yet ne'er I 'plain meof my painful plight.My love! if longer last this parting throe Little by littleshall it waste my sprite.An thou wouldst bless these eyne with sight of thee One day onearth, I crave none other sight:Think not another could possess my mind Nor length nor breadthfor other love I find."Then he walked on till he came to the apartment of his brother'swidow, the mother of Badr al Din Hasan, the Egyptian. Now fromthe time of her son's disappearance she had never ceased weepingand wailing through the light hours and the dark. and, when theyears grew longsome with her, she built for him a tomb of marblein the midst of the saloon and there used to weep for him day andnight, never sleeping save thereby. When the Wazir drew near herapartment, he heard her voice and stood behind the door while sheaddressed the sepulchre in verse and said: "Answer, by Allah! Sepulchre, are all his beauties gone? Hathchange the power to blight his charms, that Beauty'sparagon?Thou art not earth, O Sepulchre! nor art thou sky to me. Howcomes it, then, in thee I see conjoint the branch and moon?"While she was bemoaning herself after this fashion, behold, theWazir went in to her and saluted her and informed her that he washer husband's brother. and, telling her all that had passedbetween them, laid open before her the whole story, how her sonBadr al Din Hasan had spent a whole night with his daughter fullten years ago but had disappeared in the morning. And he endedwith saying, "My daughter conceived by thy son and bare a malechild who is now with me, and he is thy son and thy son's son bymy daughter." When she heard the tidings that her boy, Badr al Din, was still alive and saw her brother in law, she rose up tohim and threw herself at his feet and kissed them, reciting theselines: "Allah be good to him that gives glad tidings of thy steps. Invery sooth for better news mine ears would never sue:Were he content with worn out robe, upon his back I'd throw Aheart to pieces rent and torn when heard the word Adieu."Then the Wazir sent for Ajib and his grandmother stood up andfell on his neck and wept. but Shams al Din said to her, "This isno time for weeping. this is the time to get thee ready fortravelling with us to the land of Egypt. haply Allah will reuniteme and thee with thy son and my nephew." Replied she,"Hearkening and obedience." and, rising at once, collected herbaggage and treasures and her jewels, and equipped herself andher slave girls for the march, whilst the Wazir went to take hisleave of the Sultan of Bassorah, who sent by him presents andrarities for the Soldan of Egypt. Then he set out at once uponhis homeward march and journeyed till he came to Damascus citywhere he alighted in the usual place and pitched tents, and saidto his suite, "We will halt a se'nnight here to buy presents andrare things for the Soldan." Now Ajib bethought him of the pastso he said to the Eunuch, "O Laik, I want a little diversion.come, let us go down to the great bazar of Damascus, andsee what hath become of the cook whose sweetmeats we ate andwhose head we broke, for indeed he was kind to us and weentreated him scurvily." The Eunuch answered, "Hearing isobeying!" So they went forth from the tents. and the tie ofblood drew Ajib towards his father, and forthwith they passedthrough the gateway, Bab al Faradis hight, and enteredthe city and ceased not walking through the streets till theyreached the cookshop, where they found Hasan of Bassorah standingat the door. It was near the time of mid afternoon prayerand it so fortuned that he had just dressed a confectionof pomegranate grains. When the twain drew near to him and Ajibsaw him, his heart yearned towards him, and noticing the scar ofthe blow, which time had darkened on his brow, he said to him,"Peace be on thee, O man!" know that my heart is withthee." But when Badr al Din looked upon his son his vitalsyearned and his heart fluttered, and he hung his head earthwardsand sought to make his tongue give utterance to his words, but hecould not. Then he raised his head humbly and suppliant wisetowards his boy and repeated these couplets: "I longed for my beloved but when I saw his face, Abashed Iheld my tongue and stood with downcast eye.And hung my head in dread and would have hid my love, But dowhatso I would hidden it would not lie.Volumes of plaints I had prepared, reproach and blame, Butwhen we met, no single word remembered I."And then said he to them, "Heal my broken heart and eat of mysweetmeats. for, by Allah, I cannot look at thee but my heartflutters. Indeed I should not have followed thee the other day,but that I was beside myself." "By Allah," answered Ajib, "thoudost indeed love us! We ate in thy house a mouthful when we werehere before and thou madest us repent of it, for that thoufollowedst us and wouldst have disgraced us. so now we will noteat aught with thee save on condition that thou make oath not togo out after us nor dog us. Otherwise we will not visit theeagain during our present stay. for we shall halt a week here,whilst my grandfather buys certain presents for the King." QuothHasan of Bassorah, "I promise you this." So Ajib and the Eunuchentered the shop, and his father set before them a saucer full ofconserve of pomegranate grains. Said Ajib, "Sit thee down andeat with us, so haply shall Allah dispel our sorrows." Hasan theBassorite was joyful and sat down and ate with them. but his eyeskept gazing fixedly on Ajib's face, for his very heart and vitalsclove to him. and at last the boy said to him, "Did I not tellthee thou art a most noyous dotard?. so do stint thy staring inmy face!" But when Hasan of Bassorah heard his son's words herepeated these lines: "Thou hast some art the hearts of men to clip. Close veiled,far hidden mystery dark and deep:O thou whose beauties sham the lustrous moon, Wherewith thesaffron Morn fears rivalship!Thy beauty is a shrine shall ne'er decay. Whose signs shallgrow until they all outstrip.Must I be thirst burnt by that Eden brow And die of pine totaste that Kausar lip?"Hasan kept putting morsels into Ajib's mouth at one time and atanother time did the same by the Eunuch and they ate till theywere satisfied and could no more. Then all rose up and the cookpoured water on their hands. and, loosing a silkenwaist shawl, dried them and sprinkled them with rose water from acasting bottle he had by him. Then he went out and presentlyreturned with a gugglet of sherbet flavoured with rose water,scented with musk and cooled with snow. and he set this beforethem saying, "Complete your kindness to me!" So Ajib took thegugglet and drank and passed it to the Eunuch. and it went roundtill their stomachs were full and they were surfeited with a meallarger than their wont. Then they went away and made haste inwalking till they reached the tents, and Ajib went in to hisgrandmother, who kissed him and, thinking of her son, Badr al DinHasan, groaned aloud and wept and recited these lines: "I still had hoped to see thee and enjoy thy sight, For inthine absence life has lost its kindly light:I swear my vitals wot none other love but thine By Allah, whocan read the secrets of the sprite!"Then she asked Ajib, "O my son! where hast thou been?". and heanswered, "In Damascus city." Whereupon she rose and set beforehim a bit of scone and a saucer of conserve of pomegranate grains(which was too little sweetened), and she said to the Eunuch,"Sit down with thy master!" Said the servant to himself, "ByAllah, we have no mind to eat: I cannot bear the smell of bread."but he sat down and so did Ajib, though his stomach was full ofwhat he had eaten already and drunken. Nevertheless he took abit of the bread and dipped it in the pomegranate conserve andmade shift to eat it, but he found it too little sweetened, forhe was cloyed and surfeited, so he said, "Faugh. what be thiswild beast stuff?" "O my son," cried his grandmother,"dost thou find fault with my cookery? I cooked this myself andnone can cook it as nicely as I can save thy father, Badr al DinHasan." "By Allah, O my lady, Ajib answered, "this dish is nastystuff. for we saw but now in the city of Bassorah a cook who sodresseth pomegranate grains that the very smell openeth a way tothe heart and the taste would make a full man long to eat. and,as for this mess compared with his, 'tis not worth either much orlittle." When his grandmother heard his words she waxed wrothwith exceeding wrath and looked at the servant And Shahrazadperceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.When it was the Twenty fourth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Ajib'sgrandmother heard his words, she waxed wroth and looked at theservant and said, "Woe to thee! dost thou spoil my son,and dost take him into common cookshops?" The Eunuch wasfrightened and denied, saying, "We did not go into the shop. weonly passed by it." "By Allah," cried Ajib, "but we did go inand we ate till it came out of our nostrils, and the dish wasbetter than thy dish!" Then his grandmother rose and went andtold her brother in law, who was incensed against the Eunuch, andsending for him asked him, "Why didst thou take my son into acookshop?". and the Eunuch being frightened answered, "We did notgo in." But Ajib said, "We did go inside and ate conserve ofpomegranate grains till we were full. and the cook gave us todrink of iced and sugared sherbet." At this the Wazir'sindignation redoubled and he questioned the Castrato but, as hestill denied, the Wazir said to him, "If thou speak sooth, sitdown and eat before us." So he came forward and tried to eat,but could not eat and threw away the mouthful crying "O my lord!I am surfeited since yesterday." By this the Wazir was certifiedthat he had eaten at the cook's and bade the slaves throw himwhich they did. Then they came down on him with a rib basting which burned him till he cried for mercy and help fromAllah, saying, "O my master, beat me no more and I will tell theethe truth." whereupon the Wazir stopped the bastinado and said,"Now speak thou sooth." Quoth the Eunuch, "Know then that we didenter the shop of a cook while he was dressing conserve ofpomegranate grains and he set some of it before us: by Allah! Inever ate in my life its like, nor tasted aught nastier than thisstuff which is now before us." Badr al Din Hasan'smother was angry at this and said, "Needs thou must go back tothe cook and bring me a saucer of conserved pomegranate grainsfrom that which is in his shop and show it to thy master, that hemay say which be the better and the nicer, mine or his." Said theunsexed, "I will." So on the instant she gave him a saucer and ahalf dinar and he returned to the shop and said to the cook, "OShaykh of all Cooks, we have laid a wager concerning thycookery in my lord's house, for they have conserve ofpomegranate grains there also. so give me this half dinar's worthand look to it. for I have eaten a full meal of stick on accountof thy cookery, and so do not let me eat aught more thereof."Hasan of Bassorah laughed and answered, "By Allah, none can dressthis dish as it should be dressed save myself and my mother, andshe at this time is in a far country." Then he ladled out asaucer full. and, finishing it off with musk and rose water, putit in a cloth which he sealed and gave it to the Eunuch,who hastened back with it. No sooner had Badr al Din Hasan'smother tasted it and perceived its fine flavour and theexcellence of the cookery, than she knew who had dressed it, andshe screamed and fell down fainting. The Wazir, sorely started,sprinkled rose water upon her and after a time she recovered andsaid, "If my son be yet of this world, none dressed this conserveof pomegranate grains but he. and this Cook is my very son Badral Din Hasan. there is no doubt of it nor can there be anymistake, for only I and he knew how to prepare it and I taughthim." When the Wazir heard her words he joyed with exceeding joyand said, "O the longing of me for a sight of my brother's son!I wonder if the days will ever unite us with him! Yet it is toAlmighty Allah alone that we look for bringing about thismeeting." Then he rose without stay or delay and, going to hissuite said to them, "Be off, some fifty of you with sticks andstaves to the Cook's shop and demolish it. then pinion his armsbehind him with his own turband, saying, 'It was thou madest thatfoul mess of pomegranate grains!' and drag him here perforce butwithout doing him a harm." And they replied, "It is well." Thenthe Wazir rode off without losing an instant to the Palace and,foregathering with the Viceroy of Damascus, showed him theSultan's orders. After careful perusal he kissed the letter, andplacing it upon his head said to his visitor, "Who is thisoffender of thine?" Quoth the Wazir, "A man who is a cook." Sothe Viceroy at once sent his apparitors to the shop. which theyfound demolished and everything in it broken to pieces. forwhilst the Wazir was riding to the palace his men had done hisbidding. Then they awaited his return from the audience, andHasan of Bassorah who was their prisoner kept saying, "I wonderwhat they have found in the conserve of pomegranate grains tobring things to this pass!" When the Wazir returned tothem, after his visit to the Viceroy who had given him formalpermission to take up his debtor and depart with him, on enteringthe tents he called for the Cook. They brought him forwardpinioned with his turband. and, when Badr al Din Hasan saw hisuncle, he wept with excessive weeping and said, "O my lord, whatis my offence against thee?" "Art thou the man who dressed thatconserve of pomegranate grains?". asked the Wazir, and heanswered "Yes! didst thou find in it aught to call for thecutting off of my head?" Quoth the Wazir, "That were the leastof thy deserts!" Quoth the cook, "O my lord, wilt thou not tellme my crime and what aileth the conserve of pomegranate grains?""Presently," replied the Wazir and called aloud to his men,"Bring hither the camels." So they struck the tents and by theWazir's orders the servants took Badr al Din Hasan, and set himin a chest which they padlocked and put on a camel. Then theydeparted and stinted not journeying till nightfall, when theyhalted and ate some victual, and took Badr al Din Hasan out ofhis chest and gave him a meal and locked him up again. They setout once more and travelled till they reached Kimrah, where theytook him out of the box and brought him before the Wazir whoasked him, "Art thou he who dressed that conserve of pomegranate grains?" He answered "Yes, O my lord!". and the Wazir said"Fetter him!" So they fettered him and returned him to the chestand fared on again till they reached Cairo and lighted at thequarter called Al Raydaniyah. Then the Wazir gave orderto take Badr al Din Hasan out of the chest and sent for acarpenter and said to him, "Make me a cross of wood forthis fellow!" Cried Badr al Din Hasan "And what wilt thou do withit?". and the Wazir replied, "I mean to crucify thee thereon, andnail thee thereto and parade thee all about the city." "And whywilt thou use me after this fashion?" "Because of thy villanouscookery of conserved pomegranate grains. how durst thou dress itand sell it lacking pepper?" "And for that it lacked pepper wiltthou do all this to me? Is it not enough that thou hast brokenmy shop and smashed my gear and boxed me up in a chest and fed meonly once a day?" "Too little pepper! too little pepper! this isa crime which can be expiated only upon the cross!" Then Badral Din Hasan marvelled and fell a mourning for his life.whereupon the Wazir asked him, "Of what thinkest thou?". and heanswered him, "Of maggoty heads like thine. for an thouhad one ounce of sense thou hadst not treated me thus." Quoththe Wazir, "It is our duty to punish thee lest thou do the likeagain." Quoth Badr al Din Hasan, "Of a truth my offense wereover punished by the least of what thou hast already done to me.and Allah damn all conserve of pomegranate grains and curse thehour when I cooked it and would I had died ere this!" But theWazir rejoined, "There is no help for it. I must crucify a manwho sells conserve of pomegranate grains lacking pepper." Allthis time the carpenter was shaping the wood and Badr al Dinlooked on. and thus they did till night, when his uncle took himand clapped him into the chest, saying, "The thing shall be doneto morrow!" Then he waited until he knew Badr al Din "Hasan tobe asleep, when he mounted. and taking the chest up before him,entered the city and rode on to his own house, where he alightedand said to his daughter, Sitt al Husn, "Praised be Allah whohath reunited thee with thy husband, the son of thine uncle! Upnow, and order the house as it was on thy bridal night." So theservants arose and lit the candles. and the Wazir took out hisplan of the nuptial chamber, and directed them what to do tillthey had set everything in its stead, so that whoever saw itwould have no doubt but it was the very night of the marriage.Then he bade them put down Badr al Din Hasan's turband on thesettle, as he had deposited it with his own hand, and in likemanner his bag trousers and the purse which were under themattress: and told daughter to undress herself and go to bed inthe private chamber as on her wedding night, adding, "When theson of thine uncle comes in to thee, say to him: Thou hastloitered while going to the privy. and call him to lie by thyside and keep him in converse till daybreak, when we will explainthe whole matter to him." Then he bade take Badr al Din Hasanout of the chest, after loosing the fetters from his feet andstripping off all that was on him save the fine shirt of bluesilk in which he had slept on his wedding night. so that he waswell nigh naked and trouserless. All this was done whilst he wassleeping on utterly unconscious. Then, by doom of Destiny, Badral Din Hasan turned over and awoke. and, finding himself in alighted vestibule, said to himself, "Surely I am in the mazes ofsome dream." So he rose and went on to a little to an inner doorand looked in and lo! he was in the very chamber wherein thebride had been displayed to him. and there he saw the bridalalcove and the settle and his turband and all his clothes. Whenhe saw this he was confounded and kept advancing with one foot,and retiring with the other, saying, "Am I sleeping or waking?"And he began rubbing his forehead and saying (for indeed he wasthoroughly astounded), "By Allah, verily this is the chamber ofthe bride who was displayed before me! Where am I then? I wassurely but now in a box!" Whilst he was talking with himself,Sitt al Husn suddenly lifted the corner of the chamber curtainand said, "O my lord, wilt thou not come in? Indeed thou hastloitered long in the water closet." When he heard her words andsaw her face he burst out laughing and said, "Of a truth this isa very nightmare among dreams!" Then he went in sighing, andpondered what had come to pass with him and was perplexed abouthis case, and his affair became yet more obscure to him when hesaw his turband and bag trousers and when, feeling the pocket, hefound the purse containing the thousand gold pieces. So he stoodstill and muttered, "Allah is all knowing! Assuredly I amdreaming a wild waking dream!" Then said the Lady of Beauty tohim, "What ails thee to look puzzled and perplexed?". adding,"Thou wast a very different man during the first of the night!"He laughed and asked her, "How long have I been away from thee?".and she answered him, "Allah preserve thee and His Holy Name beabout thee! Thou didst but go out an hour ago for an occasionand return. Are thy wits clean gone?" When Badr al Din Hasanheard this, he laughed, and said, "Thou hast spokentruth. but, when I went out from thee, I forgot myself awhile inthe draught house and dreamed that I was a cook at Damascus andabode there ten years. and there came to me a boy who was of thesons of the great, and with him an Eunuch." Here he passed hishand over his forehead and, feeling the scar, cried, "By Allah, Omy lady, it must have been true, for he struck my forehead with astone and cut it open from eye brow to eye brow. and here is themark: so it must have been on wake." Then he added, "But perhapsI dreamt it when we fell asleep, I and thou, in each other'sarms, for meseems it was as though I travelled to Damascuswithout tarbush and trousers and set up as a cook there." Thenhe was perplexed and considered for awhile, and said, "By Allah,I also fancied that I dressed a conserve of pomegranate grainsand put too little pepper in it. By Allah, I must have slept inthe numerocent and have seen the whole thing in a dream. but howlong was that dream!" "Allah upon thee," said Sitt al Husn, "andwhat more sawest thou?" So he related all to her. and presentlysaid, "By Allah had I not woke up they would have nailed me to across of wood!" "Wherefore?" asked she. and he answered, "Forputting too little pepper in the conserve of pomegranate grains,and meseemed they demolished my shop and dashed to pieces my potsand pans, destroyed all my stuff and put me in a box. they thensent for the carpenter to fashion a cross for me and would havecrucified me thereon. Now Alham dolillah! thanks be to Allah, forthat all this happened to me in sleep, and not on wake." Sittal Husn laughed and clasped him to her bosom and he her to his:then he thought again and said, "By Allah, it could not be savewhile I was awake: truly I know not what to think of it." Thenhe lay him down and all the night he was bewildered about hiscase, now saying, "I was dreaming!" and then saying, "I wasawake!", till morning, when his uncle Shams al Din, the Wazir,came to him and saluted him. When Badr al Din Hasan saw him hesaid, "By Allah, art thou not he who bade bind my hands behind meand smash my shop and nail me to a cross on a matter of conservedpomegranate grains because the dish lacked a sufficiency ofpepper?" Whereupon the Wazir said to him, "Know, O my son, thattruth hath shown it soothfast and the concealed hath beenrevealed! Thou art the son of my brother, and I did allthis with thee to certify myself that thou wast indeed he whowent in unto my daughter that night. I could not be sure ofthis, till I saw that thou knewest the chamber and thy turbandand thy trousers and thy gold and the papers in thy writing andin that of thy father, my brother. for I had never seen theeafore that and knew thee not. and as to thy mother I haveprevailed upon her to come with me from Bassorah." So saying, hethrew himself on his nephew's breast and wept for joy. and Badral Din Hasan, hearing these words from his uncle, marvelled withexceeding marvel and fell on his neck and also shed tears forexcess of delight. Then said the Wazir to him, "O my son, thesole cause of all this is what passed between me and thy sire."and all that had occurred to part them. Lastly the Wazir sentfor Ajib. and when his father saw him he cried, "And this is hewho struck me with the stone!" Quoth the Wazir, "This is thyson!" And Badr al Din Hasan threw himself upon his boy and beganrepeating: "Long have I wept o'er severance ban and bane, Long from mineeyelids tear rills rail and rain:And vowed I if Time re union bring My tongue from name of"Severance" I'll restrain:Joy hath o'ercome me to this stress that I From joy's revulsionto shed tears am fain:Ye are so trained to tears, O eyne of me! You weep withpleasure as you weep with pain."When he had ended his verse his mother came in and threw herselfupon him and began reciting: "When we met we complained, Our hearts were sore wrung:But plaint is not pleasant Fro' messenger's tongue."Then she wept and related to him what had befallen her since hisdeparture, and he told her what he had suffered, and they thankedAllah Almighty for their reunion. Two days after his arrival theWazir Shams al din went in to the Sultan and, kissing the groundbetween his hands, greeted him with the greeting due to Kings.The Sultan rejoiced at his return and his face brightened and,placing him hard by his side, asked him to relate all hehad seen in his wayfaring and whatso had betided him in his goingand coming. So the Wazir told him all that had passed from firstto last and the Sultan said, "Thanks be to Allah for thy victoryand the winning of thy wish and thy safe return to thychildren and thy people! And now I needs must see the son of thybrother, Hasan of Bassorah, so bring him to the audience hall to morrow." Shams al Din replied, "Thy slave shall stand in thypresence to morrow, Inshallah, if it be God's will." Then hesaluted him and, returning to his own house, informed his nephewof the Sultan's desire to see him, whereto replied Hasan, whilomethe Bassorite, "The slave is obedient to the orders of his lord."And the result was that next day he accompanied his uncle, Shamsal Din, to the Divan. and, after saluting the Sultan and doinghim reverence in most ceremonious obeisance and with most courtlyobsequiousness, he began improvising these verses: "The first in rank to kiss the ground shall deign Before you,and all ends and aims attain:You are Honour's fount. and all that hope of you, Shall gainmore honour than Hope hoped to gain."The Sultan smiled and signed to him to sit down. So he took aseat close to his uncle, Shams al Din, and the King asked him hisname. Quoth Badr al Din Hasan, "The meanest of thy slaves isknown as Hasan the Bassorite, who is instant in prayer for theeday and night." The Sultan was pleased at his words and, beingminded to test his learning and prove his good breeding, askedhim, "Dost thou remember any verses in praise of the mole on thecheek?" He answered, "I do," and began reciting: "When I think of my love and our parting smart, My groans goforth and my tears upstart:He's a mole that reminds me in colour and charms O' the blacko' the eye and the grain of the heart."The King admired and praised the two couplets and said to him,"Quote something else. Allah bless thy sire and may thy tonguenever tire!" So he began: "That cheek mole's spot they evened with a grain Of musk, nordid they here the simile strain:Nay, marvel at the face comprising all Beauty, nor fallingshort by single grain."The King shook with pleasure and said to him, "Say more:Allah bless thy days!" So he began: "O you whose mole on cheek enthroned recalls A dot of muskupon a stone of ruby,Grant me your favours! Be not stone at heart! Core of my heartwhose only sustenance you be!"Quoth the King, "Fair comparison, O Hasan! thou hastspoken excellently well and hast proved thyself accomplished inevery accomplishment! Now explain to me how many meanings bethere in the Arabic language for the word Khal or mole."He replied, "Allah keep the King! Seven and fifty and some bytradition say fifty." Said the Sultan, "Thou sayest sooth,"presently adding, "Hast thou knowledge as to the points ofexcellence in beauty?" "Yes," answered Badr al Din Hasan,"Beauty consisteth in brightness of face, clearness ofcomplexion, shapeliness of nose, gentleness of eyes, sweetness ofmouth, cleverness of speech, slenderness of shape and seemlinessof all attributes. But the acme of beauty is in the hair and,indeed, al Shihab the Hijazi hath brought together all theseitems in his doggrel verse of the metre Rajaz, and it isthis:Say thou to skin "Be soft," to face "Be fair," And gaze, norshall they blame howso thou stare:Fine nose in Beauty's list is high esteemed. Nor less an eyefull, bright and debonnair:Eke did they well to laud the lovely lips (Which e'en the sleepof me will never spare).A winning tongue, a stature tall and straight. Aseemly union of gifts rarest rare:But Beauty's acme in the hair one views it. So hear my strainand with some few excuse it!"The Sultan was captivated by his converse and, regarding him as afriend, asked, "What meaning is there in the saw 'Shurayh isfoxier than the fox'?" And he answered, "Know, O King (whomAlmighty Allah keep!) that the legist Shurayh was wont,during the days of the plague, to make a visitation to Al Najaf.and, whenever he stood up to pray, there came a fox which wouldplant himself facing him and which, by mimicking his movements,distracted him from his devotions. Now when this became longsometo him, one day he doffed his shirt and set it upon a cane andshook out the sleeves. then placing his turband on the top andgirding its middle with a shawl, he stuck it up in the placewhere he used to pray. Presently up trotted the fox according tohis custom and stood over against the figure, whereupon Shurayhcame behind him, and took him. Hence the sayer saith, 'Shurayhfoxier than the fox.'" When the Sultan heard Badr al Din Hasan'sexplanation he said to his uncle, Shams al Din, "Truly this theson of thy brother is perfect in courtly breeding and I do notthink that his like can be found in Cairo." At this Hasan aroseand kissed the ground before him and sat down again as a Mamelukeshould sit before his master. When the Sultan had thus assuredhimself of his courtly breeding and bearing and his knowledge ofthe liberal arts and belles lettres, he joyed with exceeding joyand invested him with a splendid robe of honour and promoted himto an office whereby he might better his condition.Then Badr al Din Hasan arose and, kissing the ground before theKing, wished him continuance of glory and asked leave to retirewith his uncle, the Wazir Shams al Din. The Sultan gave himleave and he issued forth and the two returned home, where foodwas set before them and they ate what Allah had given them.After finishing his meal Hasan repaired to the sitting chamber ofhis wife, the Lady of Beauty, and told her what had past betweenhim and the Sultan. whereupon quoth she, "He cannot fail to makethee a cup companion and give thee largess in excess and loadthee with favours and bounties. so shalt thou, by Allah'sblessing, dispread, like the greater light, the rays of thyperfection wherever thou be, on shore or on sea." Said he toher, "I purpose to recite a Kasidah, an ode, in his praise, thathe may redouble in affection for me." "Thou art right in thineintent," she answered, "so gather thy wits together and weigh thywords, and I shall surely see my husband favoured with hishighest favour." Thereupon Hasan shut himself up and composedthese couplets on a solid base and abounding in inner grace andcopies them out in a hand writing of the nicest taste. They areas follows: Mine is a Chief who reached most haught estate, Treading thepathways of the good and great:His justice makes all regions safe and sure, And againstfroward foes bars every gate:Bold lion, hero, saint, e'en if you call Seraph or Sovranhe with all may rate!The poorest supplicant rich from him returns, All words topraise him were inadequate.He to the day of peace is saffron Morn, And murky Night infurious warfare's bate.Bow 'neath his gifts our necks, and by his deeds As King offreeborn souls he 'joys his state:Allah increase for us his term of years, And from his lot avertall risks and fears!When he had finished transcribing the lines, he despatched them,in charge of one of his uncle's slaves, to the Sultan, whoperused them and his fancy was pleased. so he read them to thosepresent and all praised them with the highest praise. Thereuponhe sent for the writer to his sitting chamber and said to him,"Thou art from this day forth my boon companion and I appoint tothee a monthly solde of a thousand dirhams, over and above that Ibestowed on thee aforetime." So Hasan rose and, kissing theground before the King several times, prayed for the continuanceof his greatness and glory and length of life and strength. ThusBadr al Din Hasan the Bassorite waxed high in honour and his fameflew forth to many regions and he abode in all comfort and solaceand delight of life with his uncle and his own folk till Deathovertook him. When the Caliph Harun al Rashid heard this storyfrom the mouth of his Wazir, Ja'afar the Barmecide, he marvelledmuch and said, "It behoves that these stories be written inletters of liquid gold." Then he set the slave at liberty andassigned to the youth who had slain his wife such a monthlystipend as sufficed to make his life easy. he also gave him aconcubine from amongst his own slave girls and the young manbecame one of his cup companions. "Yet this story," (continuedShahrazad) "is in no wise stranger than the tale of the Tailorand the Hunchback and the Jew and the Reeve and the Nazarene, andwhat betided them." Quoth the King, "And what may that be?" SoShahrazad began, in these words,