Know, O King of the age, that most marvellous was that whichbefell me but yesterday, before I foregathered with the Hunchback. It so chanced that in the early day I was at the marriagefeast of one of my companions, who had gotten together in hishouse some twenty of the handicraftsmen of this city, amongstthem tailors and silk spinners and carpenters and others of thesame kidney. As soon as the sun had risen, they set foodbefore us that we might eat when behold, the master of the houseentered, and with him a foreign youth and a well favoured of thepeople of Baghdad, wearing clothes as handsome as handsome couldbe. and he was of right comely presence save that he was lame ofone leg. He came and saluted us and we stood up to receive him.but when he was about to sit down he espied amongst us a certainman which was a Barber. whereupon he refused to be seated andwould have gone away. But we stopped him and our host also stayedhim, making oath that he should not leave us and asked him, "Whatis the reason of thy coming in and going out again at once?".whereto he answered, "By Allah, O my lord, do not hinder me. forthe cause of my turning back is yon Barber of bad omen,yon black o'face, yon ne'er do well!" When the housemaster heardthese words he marvelled with extreme marvel and said, "Howcometh this young man, who haileth from Baghdad, to be sotroubled and perplexed about this Barber?" Then we looked at thestranger and said, "Explain the cause of thine anger against theBarber." "O fair company," quoth the youth, "there befell me astrange adventure with this Barber in Baghdad (which is my nativecity). he was the cause of the breaking of my leg and of mylameness, and I have sworn never to sit in the same place withhim, nor even tarry in any town where he happens to abide. and Ihave bidden adieu to Baghdad and travelled far from it and cameto stay in this your city. yet I have hardly passed one nightbefore I meet him again. But not another day shall go by ere Ifare forth from here." Said we to him, "Allah upon thee, tell usthe tale." and the youth replied (the Barber changing colour frombrown to yellow as he spoke): Know, O fair company, that myfather was one of the chief merchants of Baghdad, and AlmightyAllah had blessed him with no son but myself. When I grew up andreached man's estate, my father was received into the mercy ofAllah (whose Name be exalted!) and left me money and eunuchs,servants and slaves. and I used to dress well and diet well. NowAllah had made me a hater of women kind and one day, as I waswalking along a street in Baghdad, a party of females met me faceto face in the footway. so I fled from them and, entering analley which was no thoroughfare, sat down upon a stone bench atits other end. I had not sat there long before the latticedwindow of one of the houses opposite was thrown open, and thereappeared at it a young lady, as she were the full moon at itsfullest. never in my life saw I her like. and she began to watersome flowers on the window sill. She turned right andleft and, seeing me watching her, shut the window and went away.Thereupon fire was suddenly enkindled in my heart. my mind waspossessed with her and my woman hate turned to woman love. Icontinued sitting there, lost to the world, till sunset when lo!the Kazi of the city came riding by with his slaves before himand his eunuchs behind him, and dismounting entered the house inwhich the damsel had appeared. By this I knew that he was herfather. so I went home sorrowful and cast myself upon my carpetbed in grief. Then my handmaids flocked in and sat about me,unknowing what ailed me. but I addressed no speech to them, andthey wept and wailed over me. Presently in came an old woman wholooked at me and saw with a glance what was the matter with me:so she by my head spoke me fair, saying, "O my son, tell me allabout it and I will be the means of thy union with her."So I related to her what had happened and she answered, "O myson, this one is the daughter of the Kazi of Baghdad who keepethher in the closest seclusion. and the window where thou sawesther is her floor, whilst her father occupies the large saloon inthe lower story. She is often there alone and I am wont to visitat the house. so thou shalt not win to her save through me. Nowset thy wits to work and be of good cheer." With these words shewent away and I took heart at what she said and my peoplerejoiced that day, seeing me rise in the morning safe and sound.By and by the old woman returned looking chopfallen, andsaid, "O my son, do not ask me how I fared with her! When I toldher that, she cried at me, 'If thou hold not thy peace, O hag ofill omen, and leave not such talk, I will entreat thee as thoudeservest and do thee die by the foulest of deaths.' But needsmust I have at her a second time." When I heard this itadded ailment to my ailment and the neighbours visited me andjudged that I was not long for this world. but after some days,the old woman came to me and, putting her mouth close to my ear,whispered, "O my son. I claim from thee the gift of good news."With this my soul returned to me and I said, "Whatever thou wiltshall be thine." Thereupon she began, "Yesterday I went to theyoung lady who, seeing me broken in spirit and shedding tearsfrom reddened eyes, asked me, 'O naunty mine, what ailsthee, that I see thy breast so straitened?'. and I answered her,weeping bitterly, 'O my lady, I am just come from the house of ayouth who loves thee and who is about to die for sake of thee!'Quoth she (and her heart was softened), 'And who is this youth ofwhom thou speakest?'. and quoth I, 'He is to me as a son and thefruit of my vitals. He saw thee, some days ago, at the windowwatering thy flowers and espying thy face and wrists he fell inlove at first sight. I let him know what happened to me the lasttime I was with thee, whereupon his ailment increased, he took tothe pillow and he is naught now but a dead man, and no doubt whatever of it.' At this she turned pale and asked, 'All this for mysake?'. and I answered, 'Ay, by Allah! what wouldst thouhave me do?' Said she, 'Go back to him and greet him for me andtell him that I am twice more heartsick than he is. And onFriday, before the hour of public prayer, bid him here to thehouse, and I will come down and open the door for him. Then Iwill carry him up to my chamber and foregather with him for awhile, and let him depart before my father return from theMosque.'" When I heard the old woman's words, all my sicknesssuddenly fell from me, my anguish ceased and my heart wascomforted. I took off what clothes were on me and gave them toher and, as she turned to go, she said, "Keep a good heart!" "Ihave not a jot of sorrow left." I replied. My household andintimates rejoiced in my recovery and I abode thus till Friday,when behold, the old woman came in and asked me how I did, towhich I answered that I was well and in good case. Then I donnedmy clothes and perfumed myself and sat down to await thecongregation going in to prayers, that I might betake myself toher. But the old woman said to me, "Thou hast time and to spare:so thou wouldst do well to go to the Hammam and have thy hairshaven off (especially after thy ailment), so as not to showtraces of sickness." "This were the best way," answered I, "Ihave just now bathed in hot water, but I will have my headshaved." Then I said to my page, "Go to the bazaar and bring me abarber, a discreet fellow and one not inclined to meddling orimpertinent curiosity or likely to split my head with hisexcessive talk." The boy went out at once and broughtback with him this wretched old man, this Shaykh of ill omen.When he came in he saluted me and I returned his salutation. thenquoth he, "Of a truth I see thee thin of body." and quoth I, "Ihave been ailing." He continued, "Allah drive far away from theethy woe and thy sorrow and thy trouble and thy distress." "Allahgrant thy prayer!" said I. He pursued, "All gladness to thee, Omy master, for indeed recovery is come to thee. Dost thou wish tobe polled or to be blooded? Indeed it was a tradition of IbnAbbas (Allah accept of him!) that the Apostle said,'Whoso cutteth his hair on a Friday, the Lord shall avert fromhim threescore and ten calamities.' and again is related of himalso that he said, 'Cupping on a Friday keepeth from loss ofsight and a host of diseases.'" "Leave this talk," I cried."come, shave me my head at once for I can't stand it." So he roseand put forth his hand in most leisurely way and took out akerchief and unfolded it, and lo! it contained anastrolabe with seven parallel plates mounted in silver.Then he went to the middle of the court and raised head andinstrument towards the sun's rays and looked for a long while.When this was over, he came back and said to me, "Know that therehave elapsed of this our day, which be Friday, and this Friday bethe tenth of the month Safar in the six hundred and fifty  thirdyear since the Hegira or Flight of the Apostle (on whom be thebestest of blessings and peace!) and the seven thousand threehundred and twentieth year of the era of Alexander, eight degreesand six minutes. Furthermore the ascendant of this our day is,according to the exactest science of computation, the planetMars. and it so happeneth that Mercury is in conjunction withhim, denoting an auspicious moment for hair cutting. and thisalso maketh manifest to me that thou desires union with a certainperson and that your intercourse will not be propitious. Butafter this there occurreth a sign respecting a matter which willbefall thee and whereof I will not speak." "O thou," cried I, "byAllah, thou weariest me and scatterest my wits and thy forecastis other than good. I sent for thee to poll my head and naughtelse: so up and shave me and prolong not thy speech." "By Allah,"replied he, "if thou but knew what is about to befall thee, thouwouldst do nothing this day, and I counsel thee to act as I tellthee by computation of the constellations." "By Allah," said I,"never did I see a barber who excelled in judicial astrology savethyself: but I think and I know that thou art most prodigal offrivolous talk. I sent for thee only to shave my head, but thoucomest and pesterest me with this sorry prattle." "What morewouldst thou have?" replied he. "Allah hath bounteously bestowedon thee a Barber who is an astrologer, one learned in alchemy andwhite magic. syntax, grammar, and lexicology. the arts oflogic, rhetoric and elocution. mathematics, arithmetic andalgebra. astronomy, astromancy and geometry. theology, theTraditions of the Apostle and the Commentaries on the Koran.Furthermore, I have read books galore and digested them and havehad experience of affairs and comprehended them. In short I havelearned the theorick and the practick of all the arts andsciences. I know everything of them by rote and I am a pastmaster in tota re scibili. Thy father loved me for my lack ofofficiousness, argal, to serve thee is a religious duty incumbenton me. I am no busy body as thou seemest to suppose, and on thisaccount I am known as The Silent Man, also, The Modest Man.Wherefore it behoveth thee to render thanks to Allah Almighty andnot cross me, for I am a true counsellor to thee and benevolentlyminded towards thee. Would that I were in thy service a wholeyear that thou mightest do me justice. and I would ask thee nowage for all this." When I heard his flow of words, I said tohim, "Doubtless thou wilt be my death this day!" And Shahrazadperceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.When it was the Thirtieth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the youngman said to the Barber, "Thou certainly will be the death of methis very day!" "O master mine," replied he, "I am he, The SilentMan hight, by reason of the fewness of my words, to distinguishme from my six brothers. For the eldest is called Al Bakbuk, theprattler. the second Al Haddar, the babbler. the third Al Fakik,the gabbler. the fourth, his name is Al Kuz al aswani, the longnecked Gugglet, from his eternal chattering. the fifth is Al Nashshar, the tattler and tale teller. the sixth Shakashik, ormany clamours. and the seventh is famous as Al Samit, The SilentMan, and this is my noble self!" Whilst he redoubled his talk, Ithought my gall bladder would have burst. so I said to theservant, "Give him a quarter dinar and dismiss him and let him gofrom me in the name of God who made him. I won't have my headshaved to day." "What words be these, O my lord?" cried he. "ByAllah! I will accept no hire of thee till I have served thee andhave ministered to thy wants. and I care not if I never takemoney of thee. If thou know not my quality, I know thine. and Iowe thy father, an honest man, on whom Allah Almighty have mercy!many a kindness, for he was a liberal soul and a generous. ByAllah, he sent for me one day, as it were this blessed day, and Iwent in to him and found a party of his intimates about him.Quoth he to me, 'Let me blood.' so I pulled out my astrolabe and,taking the sun's altitude for him, I ascertained that theascendant was inauspicious and the hour unfavourable forbrooding. I told him of this, and he did according to my biddingand awaited a better opportunity. So I made these lines in honourof him: I went to my patron some blood to let him, But found that themoment was far from good:So I sat and I talked of all strangenesses, And with jests andjokes his good will I wooed:They pleased him and cried he, 'O man of wit, Thou hast provedthee perfect in merry mood!'Quoth I, 'O thou Lord of men, save thou Lend me art andwisdom I'm fou and woodIn thee gather grace, boon, bounty, suavity, And I guerdon theworld with lore, science and gravity.'Thy father was delighted and cried out to the servant, 'Give himan hundred and three gold pieces with a robe of honour!' The manobeyed his orders, and I awaited an auspicious moment, when Iblooded him. and he did not baulk me. nay he thanked me and I wasalso thanked and praised by all present. When the blood lettingwas over I had no power to keep silence and asked him, 'By Allah,O my lord, what made thee say to the servant, Give him an hundredand three dinars?'. and he answered, 'One dinar was for theastrological observation, another for thy pleasant conversation,the third for the phlebotomisation, and the remaining hundred andthe dress were for thy verses in my commendation.'" "May Allahshow small mercy to my father," exclaimed I, "for knowing thelike of thee." He laughed and ejaculated, "There is no god butthe God and Mohammed is the Apostle of God! Glory to Him thatchangeth and is changed not! I took thee for a man of sense, butI see thou babblest and dotest for illness. Allah hath said inthe Blessed Book, 'Paradise is prepared for the goodlywho bridle their anger and forgive men.' and so forth. and in anycase thou art excused. Yet I cannot conceive the cause of thyhurry and flurry. and thou must know that thy father and thygrandfather did nothing without consulting me, and indeed it hathbeen said truly enough, 'Let the adviser be prized'. and, 'Thereis no vice in advice'. and it is also said in certain saws,'Whoso hath no counsellor elder than he, will never himself anelder be'. and the poet says: Whatever needful thing thou undertake, Consult th' experiencedand contraire him not!And indeed thou shalt never find a man better versed in affairsthan I, and I am here standing on my feet to serve thee. I am notvexed with thee: why shouldest thou be vexed with me? Butwhatever happen I will bear patiently with thee in memory of themuch kindness thy father shewed me." "By Allah," cried I, "O thouwith tongue long as the tail of a jackass, thou persistest inpestering me with thy prate and thou becomest more longsome inthy long speeches, when all I want of thee is to shave my headand wend thy way!" Then he lathered my head saying, "I perceivethou art vexed with me, but I will not take it ill of thee, forthy wit is weak and thou art but a laddy: it was only yesterday Iused to take thee on my shoulder and carry thee toschool.' "O my brother," said I, "for Allah's sake do what I wantand go thy gait!" And I rent my garments. When he saw medo this he took the razor and fell to sharpening it and gave notover stropping it until my senses were well nigh leaving me. Thenhe came up to me and shaved part of my head. then he held hishand and then he said, "O my lord, haste is Satan's gait whilstpatience is of Allah the Compassionate. But thou, O my master, Iken thou knowest not my rank. for verily this hand alighteth uponthe heads of Kings and Emirs and Wazirs, and sages and doctorslearned in the law, and the poet said of one like me: All crafts are like necklaces strung on a string, But thisBarber's the union pear of the band:High over all craftsmen he ranketh, and why? The heads of theKings are under his hand!"Then said I, "Do leave off talking about what concerneth theenot: indeed thou hast straitened my breast and distracted mymind." Quoth he, "Meseems thou art a hasty man." and quoth I,"Yes ! yes! yes!" and he, "I rede thee practice restraint ofself, for haste is Satan's pelf which bequeatheth only repentanceand ban and bane, and He (upon whom be blessings and peace!) hathsaid, 'The best of works is that wherein deliberation lurks.' butI, by Allah! have some doubt about thine affair. and so I shouldlike thee to let me know what it is thou art in such haste to do,for I fear me it is other than good." Then he continued, "Itwanteth three hours yet to prayer time. but I do not wish to bein doubt upon this matter. nay, I must know the moment exactly,for truly, 'A guess shot in times of doubt, oft brings harmabout.' especially in the like of me, a superior person whosemerits are famous amongst mankind at large. and it doth not befitme to talk at random, as do the common sort of astrologers." Sosaying, he threw down the razor and taking up the astrolabe, wentforth under the sun and stood there a long time. after which hereturned and counting on his fingers said to me, "There remainstill to prayer time three full hours and complete, neither morenor yet less, according to the most learned astronomicals and thewisest makers of almanacks." "Allah upon thee," cried I, "holdthy tongue with me, for thou breakest my liver in pieces." So hetook the razor and, after sharpening it as before and shavingother two hairs of my head, he again held his hand and said, "Iam concerned about thy hastiness and indeed thou wouldst do wellto let me into the cause of it. 't were the better for thee, asthou knowest that neither thy father nor thy grandfather ever dida single thing save by my advice." When I saw that there was noescape from him I said to myself, "The time for prayer draws nearand I wish to go to her before the folk come out of the mosque.If I am delayed much longer, I know not how to come at her." Thensaid I aloud, "Be quick and stint this talk and impertinence, forI have to go to a party at the house of some of my intimates."When he heard me speak of the party, he said, "This thy day is ablessed day for me! In very sooth it was but yesterday I inviteda company of my friends and I have forgotten to provide anythingfor them to eat. This very moment I was thinking of it: Alas, howI shall be disgraced in their eyes!" "Be not distressed aboutthis matter," answered I. "have I not told thee that I am biddento an entertainment this day? So every thing in my house, eatableand drinkable, shall be thine, if thou wilt only get through thywork and make haste to shave my head." He replied, "Allah requitethee with good! Specify to me what is in thy house for my gueststhat I may be ware of it." Quoth I, "Five dishes of meat and tenchickens with reddened breasts and a roasted lamb." "Setthem before me," quoth he "that I may see them." So I told mypeople to buy, borrow or steal them and bring them in anywise,And had all this set before him. When he saw it he cried, "Thewine is wanting," and I replied, "I have a flagon or two of goodold grape  juice in the house," and he said, "Have it broughtout!" So I sent for it and he exclaimed, "Allah bless thee for agenerous disposition! But there are still the essences andperfumes." So I bade them set before him a box containingNadd, the best of compound perfumes, together with finelign aloes, ambergris and musk unmixed, the whole worth fiftydinars. Now the time waxed strait and my heart straitened withit. so I said to him, "Take it all and finish shaving my head bythe life of Mohammed (whom Allah bless and keep!)." "By Allah,"said he, "I will not take it till I see all that is in it." So Ibade the page open the box and the Barber laid down theastrolabe, leaving the greater part of my head unpolled. and,sitting on the ground, turned over the scents and incense andaloes wood and essences till I was well nigh distraught. Then hetook the razor and coming up to me shaved off some few hairs andrepeated these lines: "The boy like his father shall surely show, As the tree fromits parent root shall grow."Then said he, "By Allah, O my son, I know not whether to thankthee or thy father. for my entertainment this day is all due tothy bounty and beneficence. and, although none of my company beworthy of it, yet I have a set of honourable men, to wit Zantutthe bath keeper and Sali'a the corn chandler. and Silat the bean seller. and Akrashah the greengrocer. and Humayd the scavenger.and Sa'id the camel man. and Suwayd the porter. and Abu Makarishthe bathman. and Kasim the watchman. and Karim the groom.There is not among the whole of them a bore or a bully in hiscups. nor a meddler nor a miser of his money, and each and everyhath some dance which he danceth and some of his own coupletswhich he caroleth. and the best of them is that, like thyservant, thy slave here, they know not what much talking is norwhat forwardness means. The bath keeper sings to the tom tom a song which enchants. and he stands up and dancesand chants,'I am going, O mammy, to fill up my pot.'As for the corn chandler he brings more skill to it than any. hedances and sings,'O Keener, 0 sweetheart, thou fallest not short'and he leaves no one's vitals sound for laughing at him. But thescavenger sings so that the birds stop to listen to him anddances and sings,'News my wife wots is not locked in a box!'And he hath privilege, for 'tis a shrewd rogue and awitty. and speaking of his excellence I am wont to say,My life for the scavenger! right well I love him, Like a wavingbough he is sweet to my sight:Fate joined us one night, when to him quoth I (The while I grewweak and love gained more might)'Thy love burns my heart!' 'And no wonder,' quoth he 'When thedrawer of dung turns a stoker wight.'And indeed each is perfect in whatso can charm the wit with joyand jollity." adding presently, "But hearing is not seeing. andindeed if thou make up thy mind to join us and put off going tothy friends, 'twill be better for us and for thee. The traces ofillness are yet upon thee and haply thou art going among folk whobe mighty talkers, men who commune together of what concerneththem not. or there may be amongst them some forward fellow whowill split thy head, and thou half thy size from sickness." "Thisshall be for some other day," answered I, and laughed with heartangered: "finish thy work and go, in Allah Almighty's guard, tothy friends, for they will be expecting thy coming." "O my lord,"replied he, "I seek only to introduce thee to these fellows ofinfinite mirth, the sons of men of worth, amongst whom there isneither procacity nor dicacity nor loquacity. for never, since Igrew to years of discretion, could I endure to consort with onewho asketh questions concerning what concerneth him not, nor haveI ever frequented any save those who are, like myself, men of fewwords. In sooth if thou were to company with them or even to seethem once, thou wouldst forsake all thy intimates." "Allah fulfilthy joyance with them," said I, "needs must I come amongst themsome day or other." But he said, "Would it were this very day,for I had set my heart upon thy making one of us. yet if thoumust go to thy friends to day, I will take these good things,wherewith thou hast honoured and favoured me, to my guests andleave them to eat and drink and not wait for me. whilst I willreturn to thee in haste and accompany thee to thy little party.for there is no ceremony between me and my intimates to preventmy leaving them. Fear not, I will soon be back with thee and wendwith thee whithersoever thou wendest. There is no Majesty andthere is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great!" Ishouted, "Go thou to thy friends and make merry with them. and dolet me go to mine and be with them this day, for they expect me."But the Barber cried, "I will not let thee go alone." and Ireplied, "The truth is none can enter where I am going savemyself." He rejoined, "I suspect that to day thou art for anassignation with some woman, else thou hadst taken me with thee.yet am I the right man to take, one who could aid thee to the endthou wishest. But I fear me thou art running after strange womenand thou wilt lose thy life. for in this our city of Baghdad onecannot do any thing in this line, especially on a day likeFriday: our Governor is an angry man and a mighty sharp blade.""Shame on thee, thou wicked, bad, old man!" cried I, "Be off!what words are these thou givest me?" "O cold of wit,"cried he, "thou sayest to me what is not true and thou hidest thymind from me, but I know the whole business for certain and Iseek only to help thee this day with my best endeavour." I wasfearful lest my people or my neighbours should hear the Barber'stalk, so I kept silence for a long time whilst he finishedshaving my head. by which time the hour of prayer was come andthe Khutbah, or sermon, was about to follow. When he had done, Isaid to him, "Go to thy friends with their meat and drink, and Iwill await thy return. Then we will fare together." In this way Ihoped to pour oil on troubled waters and to trick the accursedloon, so haply I might get quit of him. but he said, "Thou artcozening me and thou wouldst go alone to thy appointment and castthyself into jeopardy, whence there will be no escape for thee.Now by Allah! and again by Allah! do not go till I return, that Imay accompany thee and watch the issue of thine affair." "So beit," I replied, "do not be long absent." Then he took all themeat and drink I had given him and the rest of it and went out ofmy house. but the accursed carle gave it in charge of a porter tocarry to his home but hid himself in one of the alleys. As for meI rose on the instant, for the Muezzins had already called theSalam of Friday, the salute to the Apostle. and I dressedin haste and went out alone and, hurrying to the street, took mystand by the house wherein I had seen the young lady. I found theold woman on guard at the door awaiting me, and went up with herto the upper story, the damsel's apartment. Hardly had I reachedit when behold, the master of the house returned from prayers andentering the great saloon, closed the door. I looked down fromthe window and saw this Barber (Allah's curse upon him!) sittingover against the door and said, "How did this devil find me out?"At this very moment, as Allah had decreed it for rending my veilof secrecy, it so happened that a handmaid of the house mastercommitted some offence for which he beat her. She shrieked outand his slave ran in to intercede for her, whereupon the Kazibeat him to boot, and he also roared out. The damned Barberfancied that it was I who was being beaten. so he also fell toshouting and tore his garments and scattered dust on his head andkept on shrieking and crying "Help ! Help !" So the people cameround about him and he went on yelling, "My master is beingmurdered in the Kazi's house!" Then he ran clamouring to my placewith the folk after him, and told my people and servants andslaves. and, before I knew what was doing, up they came tearingtheir clothes and letting loose their hair and shouting,"Alas, our master!". and this Barber leading the rout with hisclothes rent and in sorriest plight. and he also shouting like amadman and saying, "Alas for our murdered master!" And they allmade an assault upon the house in which I was. The Kazi, hearingthe yells and the uproar at his door, said to one of hisservants, "See what is the matter". and the man went forth andreturned and said, "O my master, at the gate there are more thanten thousand souls what with men and women, and all crying out,'Alas for our murdered master!'. and they keep pointing to ourhouse." When the Kazi heard this, the matter seemed serious andhe waxed wroth. so he rose and opening the door saw a great crowdof people. whereat he was astounded and said, "O folk! what isthere to do?" "O accursed! O dog! O hog!" my servants replied."'Tis thou who hast killed our master!" Quoth he, "O good folk,and what hath your master done to me that I should kill him?" And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying herpermitted say.When it was the Thirty first Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Kazisaid to the servants, "What hath your master done to me that Ishould kill him? This is my house and it is open to you all."Then quoth the Barber, "Thou didst beat him and I heard him cryout." and quoth the Kazi, "But what was he doing that I shouldbeat him, and what brought him in to my house. and whence came heand whither went he?" "Be not a wicked, perverse old man!" criedthe Barber, "for I know the whole story. and the long and shortof it is that thy daughter is in love with him and he loves her.and when thou knewest that he had entered the house, thou badestthy servants beat him and they did so: by Allah, none shall judgebetween us and thee but the Caliph. or else do thou bring out ourmaster that his folk may take him, before they go in and save himperforce from thy house, and thou be put to shame." Then said theKazi (and his tongue was bridled and his mouth was stopped byconfusion before the people), "An thou say sooth, do thou come inand fetch him out." Whereupon the Barber pushed forward andentered the house. When I saw this I looked about for a means ofescape and flight, but saw no hiding place except a great chestin the upper chamber where I was. So I got into it and pulled thelid down upon myself and held my breath. The Barber was hardly inthe room before he began to look about for me, then turned himright and left and came straight to the place where I was, andstepped up to the chest and, lifting it on his head, made off asfast as he could. At this, my reason forsook me, for I knew thathe would not let me be. so I took courage and opening the chestthrew myself to the ground. My leg was broken in the fall, andthe door being open I saw a great concourse of people looking in.Now I carried in my sleeve much gold and some silver, which I hadprovided for an ill day like this and the like of such occasion.so I kept scattering it amongst the folk to divert theirattention from me and, whilst they were busy scrambling for it, Iset off, hopping as fast as I could, through the by streets ofBaghdad, shifting and turning right and left. But whithersoever Iwent this damned Barber would go in after me, crying aloud, "Theywould have bereft me of my master! They would have slain him whowas a benefactor to me and my family and my friends! Praised beAllah who made me prevail against them and delivered my lord fromtheir hands!" Then to me, "Where wilt thou go now? Thou wouldstpersist in following thine own evil devices, till thou broughtestthyself to this ill pass. and, had not Allah vouchsafed me tothee, ne'er hadst thou escaped this strait into which thou hastfallen, for they would have cast thee into a calamity whence thounever couldest have won free. But I will not call thee to accountfor thine ignorance, as thou art so little of wit andinconsequential and addicted to hastiness!" Said I to him, "Dothnot what thou hast brought upon me suffice thee, but thou mustrun after me and talk me such talk in the bazaar streets?" And Iwell nigh gave up the ghost for excess of rage against him. ThenI took refuge in the shop of a weaver amiddlemost of the marketand sought protection of the owner who drove the Barber away.and, sitting in the back room, I said to myself, "If Ireturn home I shall never be able to get rid of this curse of aBarber, who will be with me night and day. and I cannot endurethe sight of him even for a breathing space." So I sent out atonce for witnesses and made a will, dividing the greater part ofmy property among my people, and appointed a guardian over them,to whom I committed the charge of great and small, directing himto sell my houses and domains. Then I set out on my travels thatI might be free of this pimp. and I came to settle inyour town where I have lived some time. When you invited me and Icame hither, the first thing I saw was this accursed panderseated in the place of honour. How then can my heart be glad andmy stay be pleasant in company with this fellow who brought allthis upon me, and who was the cause of the breaking of my leg andof my exile from home and native land. And the youth refused tosit down and went away. When we heard his story (continued theTailor) we were amazed beyond measure and amused and said to theBarber, "By Allah, is it true what this young man saith of thee?""By Allah," replied he, "I dealt thus by him of my courtesy andsound sense and generosity. Had it not been for me he hadperished and none but I was the cause of his escape. Well it wasfor him that he suffered in his leg and not in his life! Had Ibeen a man of many words, a meddler, a busy body, I had not actedthus kindly by him. but now I will tell you a tale which befellme, that you may be well assured I am a man sparing of speech inwhom is no forwardness and a very different person from those sixBrothers of mine. and this it is."