Once upon a time there was a country where the rivers were larger, andthe forests deeper, than anywhere else. Hardly any men came there, andthe wild creatures had it all to themselves, and used to play all sortsof strange games with each other. The great trees, chained one to theother by thick flowering plants with bright scarlet or yellow blossoms,were famous hiding places for the monkeys, who could wait unseen, till apuma or an elephant passed by, and then jump on their backs and go fora ride, swinging themselves up by the creepers when they had had enough.Near the rivers huge tortoises were to be found, and though to our eyesa tortoise seems a dull, slow thing, it is wonderful to think how cleverthey were, and how often they outwitted many of their livelier friends.There was one tortoise in particular that always managed to get thebetter of everybody, and many were the tales told in the forest of hisgreat deeds. They began when he was quite young, and tired of staying athome with his father and mother. He left them one day, and walked offin search of adventures. In a wide open space surrounded by trees he metwith an elephant, who was having his supper before taking his eveningbath in the river which ran close by. 'Let us see which of us two isstrongest,' said the young tortoise, marching up to the elephant. 'Verywell,' replied the elephant, much amused at the impertinence of thelittle creature. 'when would you like the trial to be?''In an hour's time. I have some business to do first,' answered thetortoise. And he hastened away as fast as his short legs would carryhim.In a pool of the river a whale was resting, blowing water into the airand making a lovely fountain. The tortoise, however, was too young andtoo busy to admire such things, and he called to the whale to stop, ashe wanted to speak to him. 'Would you like to try which of us is thestronger?' said he. The whale looked at him, sent up another fountain,and answered: 'Oh, yes. certainly. When do you wish to begin? I am quiteready.''Then give me one of your longest bones, and I will fasten it to my leg.When I give the signal, you must pull, and we will see which can pullthe hardest.''Very good,' replied the whale. and he took out one of his bones andpassed it to the tortoise.The tortoise picked up the end of the bone in his mouth and went backto the elephant. 'I will fasten this to your leg,' said he, 'in the sameway as it is fastened to mine, and we must both pull as hard as we can.We shall soon see which is the stronger.' So he wound it carefullyround the elephant's leg, and tied it in a firm knot. 'Now!' cried he,plunging into a thick bush behind him.The whale tugged at one end, and the elephant tugged at the other, andneither had any idea that he had not the tortoise for his foe. When thewhale pulled hardest the elephant was dragged into the water. and whenthe elephant pulled the hardest the whale was hauled on to the land.They were very evenly matched, and the battle was a hard one.At last they were quite tired, and the tortoise, who was watching, sawthat they could play no more. So he crept from his hiding place, anddipping himself in the river, he went to the elephant and said: 'I seethat you really are stronger than I thought. Suppose we give it up forto day?' Then he dried himself on some moss and went to the whale andsaid: 'I see that you really are stronger than I thought. Suppose wegive it up for to day?'The two adversaries were only too glad to be allowed to rest, andbelieved to the end of their days that, after all, the tortoise wasstronger than either of them.A day or two later the young tortoise was taking a stroll, when he meta fox, and stopped to speak to him. 'Let us try,' said he in a carelessmanner, 'which of us can lie buried in the ground during seven years.''I shall be delighted,' answered the fox, 'only I would rather that youbegan.''It is all the same to me,' replied the tortoise. 'if you come roundthis way to morrow you will see that I have fulfilled my part of thebargain.'So he looked about for a suitable place, and found a convenient hole atthe foot of an orange tree. He crept into it, and the next morning thefox heaped up the earth round him, and promised to feed him every daywith fresh fruit. The fox so far kept his word that each morning whenthe sun rose he appeared to ask how the tortoise was getting on. 'Oh,very well. but I wish you would give me some fruit,' replied he.'Alas! the fruit is not ripe enough yet for you to eat,' answered thefox, who hoped that the tortoise would die of hunger long before theseven years were over.'Oh dear, oh dear! I am so hungry!' cried the tortoise.'I am sure you must be. but it will be all right to morrow,' said thefox, trotting off, not knowing that the oranges dropped down the hollowtrunk, straight into the tortoise's hole, and that he had as many as hecould possibly eat.So the seven years went by. and when the tortoise came out of his holehe was as fat as ever.Now it was the fox's turn, and he chose his hole, and the tortoiseheaped the earth round, promising to return every day or two with a niceyoung bird for his dinner. 'Well, how are you getting on?' he would askcheerfully when he paid his visits.'Oh, all right. only I wish you had brought a bird with you,' answeredthe fox.'I have been so unlucky, I have never been able to catch one,' repliedthe tortoise. 'However, I shall be more fortunate to morrow, I am sure.'But not many to morrows after, when the tortoise arrived with his usualquestion: 'Well, how are you getting on?' he received no answer, for thefox was lying in his hole quite still, dead of hunger.By this time the tortoise was grown up, and was looked up to throughoutthe forest as a person to be feared for his strength and wisdom. But hewas not considered a very swift runner, until an adventure with a deeradded to his fame.One day, when he was basking in the sun, a stag passed by, and stoppedfor a little conversation. 'Would you care to see which of us can runfastest?' asked the tortoise, after some talk. The stag thought thequestion so silly that he only shrugged his shoulders. 'Of course, thevictor would have the right to kill the other,' went on the tortoise.'Oh, on that condition I agree,' answered the deer. 'but I am afraid youare a dead man.''It is no use trying to frighten me,' replied the tortoise. 'But Ishould like three days for training. then I shall be ready to start whenthe sun strikes on the big tree at the edge of the great clearing.'The first thing the tortoise did was to call his brothers and hiscousins together, and he posted them carefully under ferns all along theline of the great clearing, making a sort of ladder which stretched formany miles. This done to his satisfaction, he went back to the startingplace.The stag was quite punctual, and as soon as the sun's rays struck thetrunk of the tree the stag started off, and was soon far out of thesight of the tortoise. Every now and then he would turn his head ashe ran, and call out: 'How are you getting on?' and the tortoise whohappened to be nearest at that moment would answer: 'All right, I amclose up to you.'Full of astonishment, the stag would redouble his efforts, but it was nouse. Each time he asked: 'Are you there?' the answer would come: 'Yes,of course, where else should I be?' And the stag ran, and ran, and ran,till he could run no more, and dropped down dead on the grass.And the tortoise, when he thinks about it, laughs still.But the tortoise was not the only creature of whose tricks stories weretold in the forest. There was a famous monkey who was just as clever andmore mischievous, because he was so much quicker on his feet andwith his hands. It was quite impossible to catch him and give him thethrashing he so often deserved, for he just swung himself up into atree and laughed at the angry victim who was sitting below. Sometimes,however, the inhabitants of the forest were so foolish as to provokehim, and then they got the worst of it. This was what happened to thebarber, whom the monkey visited one morning, saying that he wished to beshaved. The barber bowed politely to his customer, and begging him tobe seated, tied a large cloth round his neck, and rubbed his chin withsoap. but instead of cutting off his beard, the barber made a snipat the end of his tail. It was only a very little bit and the monkeystarted up more in rage than in pain. 'Give me back the end of my tail,'he roared, 'or I will take one of your razors.' The barber refused togive back the missing piece, so the monkey caught up a razor from thetable and ran away with it, and no one in the forest could be shaved fordays, as there was not another to be got for miles and miles.As he was making his way to his own particular palm tree, where thecocoanuts grew, which were so useful for pelting passers by, he met awoman who was scaling a fish with a bit of wood, for in this side of theforest a few people lived in huts near the river.'That must be hard work,' said the monkey, stopping to look. 'try myknife you will get on quicker.' And he handed her the razor as hespoke. A few days later he came back and rapped at the door of the hut.'I have called for my razor,' he said, when the woman appeared.'I have lost it,' answered she.'If you don't give it to me at once I will take your sardine,' repliedthe monkey, who did not believe her. The woman protested she had not gotthe knife, so he took the sardine and ran off.A little further along he saw a baker who was standing at the door,eating one of his loaves. 'That must be rather dry,' said the monkey,'try my fish'. and the man did not need twice telling. A few days laterthe monkey stopped again at the baker's hut. 'I've called for thatfish,' he said.'That fish? But I have eaten it!' exclaimed the baker in dismay.'If you have eaten it I shall take this barrel of meal in exchange,'replied the monkey. and he walked off with the barrel under his arm.As he went he saw a woman with a group of little girls round her,teaching them how to dress hair. 'Here is something to make cakes forthe children,' he said, putting down his barrel, which by this time hefound rather heavy. The children were delighted, and ran directly tofind some flat stones to bake their cakes on, and when they had made andeaten them, they thought they had never tasted anything so nice. Indeed,when they saw the monkey approaching not long after, they rushed to meethim, hoping that he was bringing them some more presents. But he tookno notice of their questions, he only said to their mother: 'I've calledfor my barrel of meal.''Why, you gave it to me to make cakes of!' cried the mother.'If I can't get my barrel of meal, I shall take one of your children,'answered the monkey. 'I am in want of somebody who can bake my breadwhen I am tired of fruit, and who knows how to make cocoanut cakes.''Oh, leave me my child, and I will find you another barrel of meal,'wept the mother.'I don't WANT another barrel, I want THAT one,' answered the monkeysternly. And as the woman stood wringing her hands, he caught up thelittle girl that he thought the prettiest and took her to his home inthe palm tree.She never went back to the hut, but on the whole she was not much tobe pitied, for monkeys are nearly as good as children to play with,and they taught her how to swing, and to climb, and to fly from tree totree, and everything else they knew, which was a great deal.Now the monkey's tiresome tricks had made him many enemies in theforest, but no one hated him so much as the puma. The cause of theirquarrel was known only to themselves, but everybody was aware of thefact, and took care to be out of the way when there was any chanceof these two meeting. Often and often the puma had laid traps for themonkey, which he felt sure his foe could not escape. and the monkeywould pretend that he saw nothing, and rejoice the hidden puma's heartby seeming to walk straight into the snare, when, lo! a loud laugh wouldbe heard, and the monkey's grinning face would peer out of a mass ofcreepers and disappear before his foe could reach him.This state of things had gone on for quite a long while, when at lastthere came a season such as the oldest parrot in the forest could neverremember. Instead of two or three hundred inches of rain falling, whichthey were all accustomed to, month after month passed without a cloud,and the rivers and springs dried up, till there was only one small poolleft for everyone to drink from. There was not an animal for miles roundthat did not grieve over this shocking condition of affairs, not one atleast except the puma. His only thought for years had been how to getthe monkey into his power, and this time he imagined his chance hadreally arrived. He would hide himself in a thicket, and when the monkeycame down to drink and come he must the puma would spring out andseize him. Yes, on this occasion there could be no escape!And no more there would have been if the puma had had greater patience.but in his excitement he moved a little too soon. The monkey, who wasstooping to drink, heard a rustling, and turning caught the gleam of twoyellow, murderous eyes. With a mighty spring he grasped a creeper whichwas hanging above him, and landed himself on the branch of a tree.feeling the breath of the puma on his feet as the animal bounded fromis cover. Never had the monkey been so near death, and it was some timebefore he recovered enough courage to venture on the ground again.Up there in the shelter of the trees, he began to turn over in his headplans for escaping the snares of the puma. And at length chance helpedhim. Peeping down to the earth, he saw a man coming along the pathcarrying on his head a large gourd filled with honey.He waited till the man was just underneath the tree, then he hung froma bough, and caught the gourd while the man looked up wondering, for hewas no tree climber. Then the monkey rubbed the honey all over him, anda quantity of leaves from a creeper that was hanging close by. he stuckthem all close together into the honey, so that he looked like a walkingbush. This finished, he ran to the pool to see the result, and, quitepleased with himself, set out in search of adventures.Soon the report went through the forest that a new animal had appearedfrom no one knew where, and that when somebody had asked his name, thestrange creature had answered that it was Jack in the Green. Thanks tothis, the monkey was allowed to drink at the pool as often as he liked,for neither beast nor bird had the faintest notion who he was. And ifthey made any inquiries the only answer they got was that the water ofwhich he had drunk deeply had turned his hair into leaves, so that theyall knew what would happen in case they became too greedy.By and by the great rains began again. The rivers and streams filled up,and there was no need for him to go back to the pool, near the home ofhis enemy, the puma, as there was a large number of places for him tochoose from. So one night, when everything was still and silent, andeven the chattering parrots were asleep on one leg, the monkey stoledown softly from his perch, and washed off the honey and the leaves, andcame out from his bath in his own proper skin. On his way to breakfasthe met a rabbit, and stopped for a little talk.'I am feeling rather dull,' he remarked. 'I think it would do me good tohunt a while. What do you say?''Oh, I am quite willing,' answered the rabbit, proud of being spoken toby such a large creature. 'But the question is, what shall we hunt?''There is no credit in going after an elephant or a tiger,' replied themonkey stroking his chin, 'they are so big they could not possibly getout of your way. It shows much more skill to be able to catch a smallthing that can hide itself in a moment behind a leaf. I'll tell youwhat! Suppose I hunt butterflies, and you, serpents.'The rabbit, who was young and without experience, was delighted withthis idea, and they both set out on their various ways.The monkey quietly climbed up the nearest tree, and ate fruit most ofthe day, but the rabbit tired himself to death poking his nose intoevery heap of dried leaves he saw, hoping to find a serpent among them.Luckily for himself the serpents were all away for the afternoon, at ameeting of their own, for there is nothing a serpent likes so well fordinner as a nice plump rabbit. But, as it was, the dried leaves were allempty, and the rabbit at last fell asleep where he was. Then the monkey,who had been watching him, fell down and pulled his ears, to the rage ofthe rabbit, who vowed vengeance.It was not easy to catch the monkey off his guard, and the rabbit waitedlong before an opportunity arrived. But one day Jack in the Green wassitting on a stone, wondering what he should do next, when the rabbitcrept softly behind him, and gave his tail a sharp pull. The monkey gavea shriek of pain, and darted up into a tree, but when he saw that it wasonly the rabbit who had dared to insult him so, he chattered so fast inhis anger, and looked so fierce, that the rabbit fled into the nearesthole, and stayed there for several days, trembling with fright.Soon after this adventure the monkey went away into another part ofthe country, right on the outskirts of the forest, where there wasa beautiful garden full of oranges hanging ripe from the trees. Thisgarden was a favourite place for birds of all kinds, each hoping tosecure an orange for dinner, and in order to frighten the birds away andkeep a little fruit for himself, the master had fastened a waxen figureon one of the boughs.Now the monkey was as fond of oranges as any of the birds, and when hesaw a man standing in the tree where the largest and sweetest orangesgrew, he spoke to him at once. 'You man,' he said rudely, 'throw medown that big orange up there, or I will throw a stone at you.' The waxfigure took no notice of this request, so the monkey, who was easilymade angry, picked up a stone, and flung it with all his force. Butinstead of falling to the ground again, the stone stuck to the soft wax.At this moment a breeze shook the tree, and the orange on which themonkey had set his heart dropped from the bough. He picked it up andate it every bit, including the rind, and it was so good he thought heshould like another. So he called again to the wax figure to throw himan orange, and as the figure did not move, he hurled another stone,which stuck to the wax as the first had done. Seeing that the man wasquite indifferent to stones, the monkey grew more angry still, andclimbing the tree hastily, gave the figure a violent kick. But like thetwo stones his leg remained stuck to the wax, and he was held fast. 'Letme go at once, or I will give you another kick,' he cried, suiting theaction to the word, and this time also his foot remained in the graspof the man. Not knowing what he did, the monkey hit out, first with onehand and then with the other, and when he found that he was literallybound hand and foot, he became so mad with anger and terror that in hisstruggles he fell to the ground, dragging the figure after him. Thisfreed his hands and feet, but besides the shock of the fall, they hadtumbled into a bed of thorns, and he limped away broken and bruised,and groaning loudly. for when monkeys ARE hurt, they take pains thateverybody shall know it.It was a long time before Jack was well enough to go about again. butwhen he did, he had an encounter with his old enemy the puma. And thiswas how it came about.One day the puma invited his friend the stag to go with him and see acomrade, who was famous for the good milk he got from his cows. The stagloved milk, and gladly accepted the invitation, and when the sun beganto get a little low the two started on their walk. On the way theyarrived on the banks of a river, and as there were no bridges in thosedays it was necessary to swim across it. The stag was not fond ofswimming, and began to say that he was tired, and thought that afterall it was not worth going so far to get milk, and that he would returnhome. But the puma easily saw through these excuses, and laughed at him.'The river is not deep at all,' he said. 'why, you will never be offyour feet. Come, pluck up your courage and follow me.'The stag was afraid of the river. still, he was much more afraid ofbeing laughed at, and he plunged in after the puma. but in an instantthe current had swept him away, and if it had not borne him by accidentto a shallow place on the opposite side, where he managed to scramble upthe bank, he would certainly have been drowned. As it was, he scrambledout, shaking with terror, and found the puma waiting for him. 'You had anarrow escape that time,' said the puma.After resting for a few minutes, to let the stag recover from hisfright, they went on their way till they came to a grove of bananas.'They look very good,' observed the puma with a longing glance, 'and Iam sure you must be hungry, friend stag? Suppose you were to climb thetree and get some. You shall eat the green ones, they are the best andsweetest. and you can throw the yellow ones down to me. I dare say theywill do quite well!' The stag did as he was bid, though, not being usedto climbing, it gave him a deal of trouble and sore knees, and besides,his horns were continually getting entangled in the creepers. What wasworse, when once he had tasted the bananas, he found them not at all tohis liking, so he threw them all down, green and yellow alike, and letthe puma take his choice. And what a dinner he made! When he had QUITEdone, they set forth once more.The path lay through a field of maize, where several men were working.As they came up to them, the puma whispered: 'Go on in front, friendstag, and just say "Bad luck to all workers!"' The stag obeyed, but themen were hot and tired, and did not think this a good joke. So they settheir dogs at him, and he was obliged to run away as fast as he could.'I hope your industry will be rewarded as it deserves,' said the puma ashe passed along. and the men were pleased, and offered him some of theirmaize to eat.By and by the puma saw a small snake with a beautiful shining skin,lying coiled up at the foot of a tree. 'What a lovely bracelet thatwould make for your daughter, friend stag! said he. The stag stooped andpicked up the snake, which bit him, and he turned angrily to the puma.'Why did you not tell me it would bite?' he asked.'Is it my fault if you are an idiot?' replied the puma.At last they reached their journey's end, but by this time it was late,and the puma's comrade was ready for bed, so they slung their hammocksin convenient places, and went to sleep. But in the middle of the nightthe puma rose softly and stole out of the door to the sheep fold, wherehe killed and ate the fattest sheep he could find, and taking a bowlfull of its blood, he sprinkled the sleeping stag with it. This done, hereturned to bed.In the morning the shepherd went as usual to let the sheep out of thefold, and found one of them missing. He thought directly of the puma,and ran to accuse him of having eaten the sheep. 'I, my good man? Whathad put it into your head to think of such a thing? Have I got any bloodabout me? If anyone has eaten a sheep it must be my friend the stag.'Then the shepherd went to examine the sleeping stag, and of course hesaw the blood. 'Ah! I will teach you how to steal!' cried he, and he hitthe stag such a blow on his skull that he died in a moment. The noiseawakened the comrade above, and he came downstairs. The puma greeted himwith joy, and begged he might have some of the famous milk as soon aspossible, for he was very thirsty. A large bucket was set before thepuma directly. He drank it to the last drop, and then took leave.On his way home he met the monkey. 'Are you fond of milk?' asked he.'I know a place where you get it very nice. I will show you it ifyou like.' The monkey knew that the puma was not so good natured fornothing, but he felt quite able to take care of himself, so he said heshould have much pleasure in accompanying his friend.They soon reached the same river, and, as before, the puma remarked:'Friend monkey, you will find it very shallow. there is no cause forfear. Jump in and I will follow.''Do you think you have the stag to deal with?' asked the monkey,laughing. 'I should prefer to follow. if not I shall go no further. Thepuma understood that it was useless trying to make the monkey do as hewished, so he chose a shallow place and began to swim across. The monkeywaited till the puma had got to the middle, then he gave a great springand jumped on his back, knowing quite well that the puma would be afraidto shake him off, lest he should be swept away into deep water. So inthis manner they reached the bank.The banana grove was not far distant, and here the puma thought he wouldpay the monkey out for forcing him to carry him over the river. 'Friendmonkey, look what fine bananas,' cried he. 'You are fond of climbing.suppose you run up and throw me down a few. You can eat the green ones,which are the nicest, and I will be content with the yellow.''Very well,' answered the monkey, swinging himself up. but he ate allthe yellow ones himself, and only threw down the green ones that wereleft. The puma was furious and cried out: 'I will punch your head forthat.' But the monkey only answered: 'If you are gong to talk suchnonsense I won't walk with you.' And the puma was silent.In a few minutes more they arrived at the field were the men werereaping the maize, and the puma remarked as he had done before: 'Friendmonkey, if you wish to please these men, just say as you go by: "Badluck to all workers."'Very well,' replied the monkey. but, instead, he nodded and smiled,and said: 'I hope your industry may be rewarded as it deserves.' The menthanked him heartily, let him pass on, and the puma followed behind him.Further along the path they saw the shining snake lying on the moss.'What a lovely necklace for your daughter,' exclaimed the puma. 'Pick itup and take it with you.''You are very kind, but I will leave it for you,' answered the monkey,and nothing more was said about the snake.Not long after this they reached the comrade's house, and found him justready to go to bed. So, without stopping to talk, the guests slung theirhammocks, the monkey taking care to place his so high that no one couldget at him. Besides, he thought it would be more prudent not to fallasleep, so he only lay still and snored loudly. When it was quite darkand no sound was to be heard, the puma crept out to the sheep fold,killed the sheep, and carried back a bowl full of its blood with whichto sprinkle the monkey. But the monkey, who had been watching out of thecorner of his eye, waited until the puma drew near, and with a violentkick upset the bowl all over the puma himself.When the puma saw what had happened, he turned in a great hurry to leavethe house, but before he could do so, he saw the shepherd coming, andhastily lay down again.'This is the second time I have lost a sheep,' the man said to themonkey. 'it will be the worse for the thief when I catch him, I can tellyou.' The monkey did not answer, but silently pointed to the puma whowas pretending to be asleep. The shepherd stooped and saw the blood, andcried out: 'Ah! so it is you, is it? then take that!' and with his stickhe gave the puma such a blow on the head that he died then and there.Then the monkey got up and went to the dairy, and drank all the milkhe could find. Afterwards he returned home and married, and that is thelast we heard of him.