A middle aged Brahman, one cold winter's night, was crossing a wide plainon his way home. The wind blew shrill and chill, and the wayfarer, Sibu byname, trembled in every limb. Suddenly, on the left of his path, he saw afire blazing cheerily, and round it a number of people enjoying itswarmth. What a temptation to warm himself in good company beforecontinuing his homeward journey!He came near, and feeling the genialinfluence of the flame from afar, incautiously shouted " Tapai,tapai ," meaning "I am warmed, I am warmed."Alas, the creatures round the fire were maleficent ghosts, hideous,distorted, grinning, sworn enemies of mankind, shouting obscene words withthe nasal utterance which marks their race.Moreover, one of them was named Tapai, and the ghostly assemblage weremightily vexed at a mortal's familiar use of their comrade's name. Theythreatened him with instant death. The Brahman, in terror, felt for hissacred thread, but it had slipped down. He strove to repeat the holy namesof the gods, but his memory was paralyzed with fear. But finally thethread came into his hand, and taking heart, he boldly asserted that heknew Tapai quite well, seeing that Tapai and his ancestors for threegenerations had been the slaves of his family."Well," cried Tapai, "if he can tell me the names of my ancestors, Iwill become his bond servant."To which the keen witted priest replied, "How can I be expected to knowthe names of all the slaves of my ancestors? But I have them recorded in aledger at home." On which he was allowed to depart on condition that hereturned on the third day to answer to Tapai's challenge. Otherwise notonly he but his family would perish at the hands of the man eatingbhutas .The Brahman went home, saved for the moment, indeed, but filled withdespair for the future. For two miserable days the wretched priest couldneither eat nor sleep, and his wife and daughter and infant son shared hisanxiety. The third night, when his family slept, the miserable man wentforth to hang himself in the jungle rather than face his ghostly foes. Buton the very tree he chose for his suicide were two dark forms. Heshuddered, he stood still, but he listened.It was Tapai and his wife, and the latter, with true femininecuriosity, was asking her husband the names of his forebears. Of courseTapai had to tell, as every husband does when his wife presses him. Herecited the following verse:Haramu,And his son Chharamu,And his son Apai,And his son Tapai.Such was the verse which the Brahman committed to memory, and gropinghis way home through the dark forest, faced life with a new confidence.Next evening he went to the ghostly rendezvous, and the unlucky Tapaifollowed him home, his submissive slave.But there was one condition. Tapai would perform all tasks given to himfrom dawn till nightfall. But he must be kept occupied all the time. Atfirst the condition seemed easy to fulfil. The bhuta was ordered tobuild a palace, raise a noble temple, dig a tank, procure a bridegroomfor the Brahman's daughter, etc., etc. But there are limits to humandesires and human inventiveness, and even the Brahman was, in spite of allthe luxury with which he was now surrounded, a harassed and perplexedmortal.He was like to die of sheer worry and anxious thought, when his wifecame to his rescue. She plucked a curly hair from her husband's eyebrow."Give that to the creature," she said, "and tell him to straighten it."The poor demon, for once, was at his wit's end. He pulled the hair, andpressed it, and wetted it. But all in vain. The moment it was released, itcurled up again. Finally, at nightfall, the good Brahman released Tapai,as Prospero released Ariel, and then he and his family lived happilyafterwards!