At a city there is a certain king. a widow lives at a house near hispalace. She subsists by going to this royal palace and pounding ricethere. having handed it over, she takes away the rice powders and lives onit.During the time while she was getting a living in this way, she bore afrog, which she reared there. When it was grown up, the king of that citycaused this proclamation to be made by beat of tom toms, "I will givehalf my kingdom, and goods amounting to an elephant's load to the personwho brings the Jeweled Golden Cock that is at the house of the Rakshasi(ogress).The frog took the bundle of rice, and hanging it from his shoulder, wentto an indi (wild date) tree, scraped the leaf off a date spike (themid rib of the leaf), and strung the rice on it. While going away afterstringing it, the frog then became like a very good looking royal prince,and a horse and clothing for him made their appearance there. Putting onthe clothes he mounted the horse, and making it bound along he went ontill he came to a city.Hearing that he had arrived, the king of that city prepared quarters forthis prince to stay at, and having given him ample food and drink, asked,"Where art thou going?"Then the prince said, "The king of our city has made a proclamation bybeat of tom toms, that he will give half his kingdom and an elephant'sload of gold to the person who brings him the Jeweled Golden Cock that isat the Rakshasi's house. Because of it I am going to fetch the JeweledGolden Cock."The king, being pleased with the prince on account of it, gave him a pieceof charcoal. "Should you be unable to escape from the Rakshasi whilereturning after taking the Jeweled Golden Cock, tell this piece ofcharcoal to be created a fire fence, and cast it down," he said. Takingit, he went to another city.The king of that city in that very manner having prepared quarters, andmade ready and given him food and drink, asked, "Where art thou going?"The prince replied in the same words, "I am going to bring the JeweledGolden Cock that is at the house of the Rakshasi." That king also beingpleased on account of it, gave him a stone, "Should you be unable toescape from the Rakshasi, tell this stone to be created a mountain, andcast it down," he said.Taking the charcoal and the stone which those two kings gave him, he wentto yet another city. The king also in that very manner having given himquarters, and food and drink, asked, "Where art thou going?" The princein that very way said, "I am going to bring the Jeweled Golden Cock."That king also being greatly pleased gave him a thorn. "Should you beunable to escape from the Rakshasi, tell a thorn fence to be created, andcast down this thorn," he said.On the next day he went to the house of the Rakshasi. She was not at home.the Rakshasi's daughter was there. That girl having seen the princecoming and not knowing him, asked "Elder brother, elder brother, where areyou going?"The prince said, "Younger sister, I am not going anywhere whatever. Icame to beg at your hands the Jeweled Golden Cock which you have got."To that she replied, "Elder brother, today indeed I am unable to give it.Tomorrow I can. Should my mother come now she will eat you. for thatreason come and hide yourself."Calling him into the house, she put him in a large trunk at the bottom ofseven trunks, and shut him up in it.After a little time had passed, the Rakshasi came back. Having come andseen that the prince's horse was there, she asked her daughter, "Whose isthis horse?"Then the Rakshasi's daughter replied, "Nobody's whatever. It came out ofthe jungle, and I caught it to ride on."The Rakshasi having said, "If so, it is good," came in. While lying downto sleep at night, the sweet odor of the prince having reached theRakshasi, she said to her daughter, "What is this, Bola ? A smell of a fresh human body is coming to me."Then the Rakshasi's daughter said, "What, mother! Do you say so? You areconstantly eating fresh bodies. how can there not be an odor of them?"After that, the Rakshasi, taking those words for the truth, went to sleep.At dawn on the following day, as soon as she arose, the Rakshasi went toseek human flesh for food. After she had gone, the Rakshasa daughter,taking out the prince who was shut up in the box, told that prince a.device on going away with the Jeweled Golden Cock: "Elder brother, ifyou. are going away with the cock, take some cords and fasten them roundmy shoulders. Having put them round me, take the cock, and having mountedthe horse, go off, making him bound quickly. When you have gone, I shallcry out. Mother comes when I give three calls. After she has come,loosening me will occupy much time. then you will be able to get away."In the way she said, the prince tied the Rakshasa daughter, and taking theJeweled Golden Cock mounted the horse, and making it bound quickly cameaway.As that Rakshasa daughter said, while she was calling out, the Rakshasicame. Having come, after she looked about (she found that) theRakshasa daughter was tied, and the Jeweled Golden Cock had been takenaway. After she had asked, "Who was it? Who took it?" theRakshasa daughter said, "I don't know who it was." After that, she veryquickly unfastened the Rakshasa daughter, and both of them came running toeat that prince.The prince was unable to go quickly. While going, the prince turnedround, and on looking back saw that this Rakshasi and theRakshasa daughter were coming running to eat that prince.After that, he cast down the thorn which the above mentioned king of thethird city gave him, having told a thorn fence to be created. A thornfence was created. Having jumped over it, they came on.After that, when he had put down the piece of stone which the king of thesecond city gave him, and told a mountain to be created a mountain wascreated. They sprang over that mountain also, and came on.After that, he cast down the charcoal which the king of the first citygave him, having told a fire fence to be created. In that very manner, afire fence was created. Having come to it, while jumping over it, both ofthem were burnt and died.From that place, the prince came along. While coming, he arrived at theIndi tree on which he had threaded the rice, and having taken off it allthat dried up rice, he began to eat it. On coming to the end of it, theperson who was like that prince again became a frog.After he became a frog, the clothes that he was wearing, and the horse,and the Jeweled Golden Cock vanished. Out of grief on that account, thatfrog died at that very place.