The Book of Kalilah and DimnahThe Jackal:It is said that in a certain marshy lake was a heron. And there were many fishes in the lake. (But in time the heron got too old to catch any,) and became very hungry, and his soul languished.A certain crab seeing him from afar, approached him, saying: "Why is your soul distressed, and why are you sad?"The Heron: And how should I not be sad who until today have lived on these fishes, but this day have seen two fishermen, one of whom said to the other: "Let us not catch (all) these fishes at one time," his companion replying: "I have seen another lake in which there are plenty of fishes. Let us go and catch them (first), and then we will come and catch all these in a twinkling.'"I know that when they return from their journey, they will not leave anything in this lake, and I shall utterly perish from life!Then the crab spoke to the fishes. And all the fishes gathered to the heron, and said to him: "Although you are an enemy to us, because we are your food and you feed on us, still he who has the fear of God, in time of trouble does not refuse what is right, or profane the emblem of the faith. Lo! we are all knocking at your door, that you may hearken to us and ease the distress of our soul, and counsel us what to do in this distressful time."The Heron: To do battle with the fishermen I am not able, and expel them from this region I cannot. But I know of a certain pool in which there is water abundant, fresh and clear. And there are green reeds in it. If you could remove thither from here, you would gain advantage to yourselves.The Fishes: But how is it possible for us to do so without your help?The Heron: I will do what you wish and consent to you. But I am sore afraid of those fishermen, lest they come hastily. But I will begin to carry some of you every day, as many as I can, until I have exhausted (you and taken) you all away from here.And he began to carry off one or two every day, and to convey them to a certain region, and to eat them there. the others being ignorant of it.It came to pass one day (that) the crab said to the heron: "I too find this place unpleasant. Pray carry me off too and convey me with my companions."So the heron carried off the crab. When he reached the place where he had eaten the fishes, the crab beheld and saw the bones of his companions. And he perceived that the heron had done this wickedness, and was about to devour him too.And the crab said within himself: "He that goes forth to battle and encounters his enemy wherever it may be, if he knows that his enemy will not hesitate to destroy him if he can, whether he make war with him (the enemy) or remain at peace with him, he ought to fight for himself strenuously, and not destroy himself for want of exertion. For if he is vanquished and perishes, still his honour goes with him, and his glory (remains) on his head."Then the crab grasped the heron's throat with his pincers, and kept gripping him with his claws, until he throttled him and took away his life. So the crab escaped from slaughter. And he went little by little until he got (back) to the fishes, whom he acquainted with the story about the heron.The jackal said to the raven: "This parable I have related to you, (that you may know) that when a man engages in fraudulent plans and transactions and schemes, his wickedness returns on his own head, and he himself perishes by his own artifices."