(27) From the Bukowinaer Tales and Legends. Von Wliolocki.Many, many thousand years ago there lived a mighty King whom heaven hadblessed with a clever and beautiful son. When he was only ten years oldthe boy was cleverer than all the King's counsellors put together, andwhen he was twenty he was the greatest hero in the whole kingdom. Hisfather could not make enough of his son, and always had him clothed ingolden garments which shone and sparkled like the sun. and his mothergave him a white horse, which never slept, and which flew like thewind. All the people in the land loved him dearly, and called him theSun Hero, for they did not think his like existed under the sun. Nowit happened one night that both his parents had the same extraordinarydream. They dreamt that a girl all dressed in red had come to them andsaid: 'If you wish that your son should really become the Sun Hero indeed and not only in name, let him go out into the world and search forthe Tree of the Sun, and when he has found it, let him pluck a goldenapple from it and bring it home.'When the King and Queen had each related their dreams to the other,they were much amazed that they should both have dreamt exactly the sameabout their son, and the King said to his wife, 'This is clearly a signfrom heaven that we should send our son out into the world in order thathe may come home the great Sun Hero, as the Red Girl said, not only inname but in deed.'The Queen consented with many tears, and the King at once bade his sonset forth in search of the Tree of the Sun, from which he was to plucka golden apple. The Prince was delighted at the prospect, and set out onhis travels that very day.For a long time he wandered all through the world, and it was not tillthe ninety ninth day after he started that he found an old man whowas able to tell him where the Tree of the Sun grew. He followed hisdirections, and rode on his way, and after another ninety nine dayshe arrived at a golden castle, which stood in the middle of a vastwilderness. He knocked at the door, which was opened noiselessly and byinvisible hands. Finding no one about, the Prince rode on, and came toa great meadow, where the Sun Tree grew. When he reached the tree he putout his hand to pick a golden apple. but all of a sudden the tree grewhigher, so that he could not reach its fruit. Then he heard some onebehind him laughing. Turning round, he saw the girl in red walkingtowards him, who addressed him in these words:'Do you really imagine, brave son of the earth, that you can pluck anapple so easily from the Tree of the Sun? Before you can do that, youhave a difficult task before you. You must guard the tree for nine daysand nine nights from the ravages of two wild black wolves, who will tryto harm it. Do you think you can undertake this?''Yes,' answered the Sun Hero, 'I will guard the Tree of the Sun ninedays and nine nights.'Then the girl continued: 'Remember, though, if you do not succeed theSun will kill you. Now begin your watch.'With these words the Red Girl went back into the golden castle. She hadhardly left him when the two black wolves appeared: but the Sun Herobeat them off with his sword, and they retired, only, however, toreappear in a very short time. The Sun Hero chased them away once more,but he had hardly sat down to rest when the two black wolves were onthe scene again. This went on for seven days and nights, when the whitehorse, who had never done such a thing before, turned to the Sun Heroand said in a human voice: 'Listen to what I am going to say. A Fairygave me to your mother in order that I might be of service to you. solet me tell you, that if you go to sleep and let the wolves harm thetree, the Sun will surely kill you. The Fairy, foreseeing this, puteveryone in the world under a spell, which prevents their obeying theSun's command to take your life. But all the same, she has forgottenone person, who will certainly kill you if you fall asleep and let thewolves damage the tree. So watch and keep the wolves away.'Then the Sun Hero strove with all his might and kept the black wolvesat bay, and conquered his desire to sleep. but on the eighth night hisstrength failed him, and he fell fast asleep. When he awoke a woman inblack stood beside him, who said: 'You have fulfilled your task verybadly, for you have let the two black wolves damage the Tree of the Sun.I am the mother of the Sun, and I command you to ride away from here atonce, and I pronounce sentence of death upon you, for you proudly letyourself be called the Sun Hero without having done anything to deservethe name.'The youth mounted his horse sadly, and rode home. The people allthronged round him on his return, anxious to hear his adventures, buthe told them nothing, and only to his mother did he confide what hadbefallen him. But the old Queen laughed, and said to her son: 'Don'tworry, my child. you see, the Fairy has protected you so far, and theSun has found no one to kill you. So cheer up and be happy.'After a time the Prince forgot all about his adventure, and married abeautiful Princess, with whom he lived very happily for some time. Butone day when he was out hunting he felt very thirsty, and coming to astream he stooped down to drink from it, and this caused his death, fora crab came swimming up, and with its claws tore out his tongue. He wascarried home in a dying condition, and as he lay on his death bedthe black woman appeared and said: 'So the Sun has, after all, foundsomeone, who was not under the Fairy's spell, who has caused your death.And a similar fate will overtake everyone under the Sun who wrongfullyassumes a title to which he has no right.'