A mouse, a rat, and a little red hen once lived together in the samecottage, and one day the little red hen said, "Let us bake a cake andhave a feast." "Let us," says the mouse, and "let us," says the rat."Who'll go and get the wheat ground?" says the hen. "I won't," says themouse. "I won't," says the rat. "I will myself," says the little redhen."Who'll make the cake?" "I won't," says the mouse. "I will," says therat. "Indeed, you shall not," says the little red hen.Well, while the hen was stretching her hand out for it "Hey Presto!"out rolled the cake from the cottage, and after it ran the mouse, therat, and the little red hen.When it was running away it went by a barn full of threshers, and theyasked it where it was running. "Oh," says it, "I'm running away from themouse, the rat, and the little red hen, and from you, too, if I can." Sothey rushed away after it with their flails, and it ran, and it ran tillit came to a ditch full of ditchers, and they asked it where it wasrunning."Oh, I am running away from the mouse, the rat, and the little red hen,and from a barn full of threshers, and from you, too, if I can."Well, they all ran after it along with the rest, till it came to a wellfull of washers, and they asked the same question, and it returned thesame answer, and after it they went.At last it came to a ford where it met with a fox, and he asked where itwas running. "Oh, I'm running away from the mouse, the rat, and thelittle red hen, from a barn full of threshers, a ditch full of ditchers,a well full of washers, and from you, too, if I can.""But you can't cross the ford," says the fox. "And can't you carry meover?" says the cake. "What'll you give me?" says the fox. "A kiss atChristmas and an egg at Easter," says the cake."Very well," says the fox "up with you." So he sat on his haunches withhis nose in the air, and the cake got up by his tail till it sat on hiscrupper."Now, over with you," says the cake. "You're not high enough," says thefox. Then it scrambled up on his shoulder. "Up higher still," says he."you wouldn't be safe there." "Am I right now?" says he. "You'll besafer on the ridge pole of my nose.""Well," says the cake, "I think I can go no further." "Oh, yes," sayshe, and he shot it up in the air, caught it in his mouth, and sent itdown the Red Lane. And that was the end of the cake.