In the town of Pavia in Lombardy there lived a worthy knight by thename of January. Although throughout his long and prosperous life he hadpartaken oftenof the fruits of love, he felt no need for marriage until he passed hissixtieth year, when suddenly he was overcome by a violent urge to become awedded man."A young and beautiful wife," he concluded, "would be the fulfillmentof my wealth and glory. Obedient, loyal, and untiring, she would attend tomy every need in my waning years, and further, she may well present mewith an heir.""Not so!" argued some. "A wife's interest will be more toward yourfortune than toward your well being, and further, her unbridled passionsmay place your honor at risk."But January listened not to these negative voices, paying heed insteadto those who praised the virtues of womanhood and the benefits ofmarriage. And thus he soon announced to his friends his resolve to find abride, "But," he asserted, "she must be under twenty years of age, foryoung veal is tastier than old beef."His friends tried to dissuade him from this resolve, but to no avail,and at last   driven onward by unrelenting fantasies   he found thewoman who satisfied his dreams. Although not of high rank, she was youngand beautiful, and, in his love blinded perception, she was also compliantand self disciplined. Further, like old January himself, she too bore thename of a season: May.Marriage documents were executed, the holy sacrament of marriage wasduly performed, and the priest united January and May as husband andwife.One wedding guest was particularly moved, a robust young man namedDamian, who served as a squire to Knight January. Ravished by May's freshbeauty, the squire fell madly in love with his master's young bride.No one knows what young May was thinking in her heart as old January  with his beard of stubble and loose skin shaking about his throat  labored in the field of love. But Damian's thoughts were not entirelysecret. He poured out his soul with pen and ink, then managed to slip theletter into the hand of his beloved May without being seen by theever watchful January.May's only opportunity to read the letter came in that small placewhere everyone goes alone. There she committed Damian's message to memory,then tore the letter into pieces and threw them into the privy. Butone thing is certain. She took no offense at the young squire'sforwardness, for as soon as she could steal a few minutes' time, shecomposed a letter to the young squire, promising him the satisfaction hedesired of her as soon as the time and place might present themselves.In the meantime old January's fortune turned against him, and he losthis sight. The curse of blindness increased the knight's possessivenessand jealousy toward his young wife. Fearing that she might succumb to sometemptation under the cover of his darkness, he never let her go out unlesshe himself had her by the hand. Nevertheless, by using private handsignals and smuggled letters, she communicated her forbidden love toDamian, and invented a plan whereby it might be consummated.The tryst was to take place in a private garden where January and Mayoften walked together. Following his beloved's plan, Damian let himselfinto the garden at the appointed time, then hid himself in the branches ofa pear tree that grew there. A little later January and May, hand in hand,approached the tree, when May suddenly declared an intense appetite for apear from the nearby tree."Do let me climb the tree and pluck a pear," she begged of her husband.Then recalling his blind jealousy, she added, "You can hold your armsaround the tree to make sure that I am alone."Not wanting to deny her this innocent request, he stooped over and lether step onto his back. Taking hold of a branch, she pulled herself intotree and into the arms of the waiting Damian. Now ladies, please take nooffence, but I must tell the story as it actually happened. Damianforthwith lifted her smock and thrust away, with the deceived husbandblindly hugging the tree beneath them.However, this shameful tryst was not entirely unseen. The king andqueen of Fairyland saw all, and the king   horrified at the cuckoldry  resolved at once to restore the old knight's sight immediately and thusexpose his wife's and his squire's faithlessness. "Do that!" replied thefairy king's wife. "But nothing bad will come to the young woman, for Iwill give her a bold and quick answer that will excuse her and her loverfrom all guilt."And thus it happened. As granted by the fairy king, sight miraculouslyreturned to January's aging eyes. But his rejoicing was short lived, forlooking up, the first thing he saw was his wife engaged in an act thatpolite words cannot describe."Strumpet!" he called out angrily. "What are you up to?"Now it was the fairy queen's turn to ply her magic, and   as promised  she put a quick response onto the wayward wife's tongue."Sir," replied May, "have patience. Don't you see what I have done? Iwas told that the only cure for your blindness would be for me to strugglewith a man upon a tree.""Struggle?" said he. "It went right in!""Oh no!" said she. "You caught a hazy glimpse, my good sir, but yoursight is still poor. Things are not as they first appeared to you." Thenshe continued, "This slander is my reward for helping you to see.""Never mind!" said he. "Come down. But it did appear to me that Damianwas enjoying you with your smock upon his breast.""Think what you will," said she, "but it was only a false visionfollowing your long blindness."With that she jumped down from the tree, and January led her happilyback home.