WOODEN WHISTLE.This is the story which old Peter used to tell whenever either Vanyaor Maroosia was cross. This did not often happen. but it would be nouse to pretend that it never happened at all. Sometimes it was Vanyawho scolded Maroosia, and sometimes it was Maroosia who scoldedVanya. Sometimes there were two scoldings going on at once. And oldPeter did not like crossness in the hut, whoever did the scolding. Hesaid it spoilt his tobacco and put a sour taste in the tea. And, ofcourse, when the children remembered that they were spoiling theirgrandfather's tea and tobacco they stopped just as quickly as theycould, unless their tongues had run right away with them whichhappens sometimes, you know, even to grown up people. This story usedto be told in two ways. It was either the tale of an old man who wasbothered by a cross old woman, or the tale of an old woman who wasbothered by a cross old man. And the moment old Peter began the storyboth children would ask at once, "Which is the cross one?" for t henthey would know which of them old Peter thought was in the wrong."This time it's the old woman," said their grandfather. "but, as likeas not, it will be the old man next."And then any quarrelling there was came to an end, and was forgottenbefore the end of the story. This is the story.An old man and an old woman lived in a little wooden house. All roundthe house there was a garden, crammed with flowers, and potatoes, andbeetroots, and cabbages. And in one corner of the house there was anarrow wooden stairway which went up and up, twisting and twisting,into a high tower. In the top of the tower was a dovecot, and on thetop of the dovecot was a flat roof.Now, the old woman was never content with the doings of the old man.She scolded all day, and she scolded all night. If there was too muchrain, it was the old man's fault. and if there was a drought, and allgreen things were parched for lack of water, well, the old man was toblame for not altering the weather. And though he was old and tired,it was all the same to her how much work she put on his shoulders. Thegarden was full. There was no room in it at all, not even for a singlepea. And all of a sudden the old woman sets her heart on growingturnips."But there is no room in the garden," says the old man."Sow them on the top of the dovecot," says the old woman."But there is no earth there.""Carry earth up and put it there," says she.So the old man laboured up and down with his tired old bones, andcovered the top of the dovecot with good black earth. He could onlytake up a very little at a time, because he was old and weak, andbecause the stairs were so narrow and dangerous that he had to hold onwith both hands and carry the earth in a bag which he held in histeeth. His teeth were strong enough, because he had been biting crustsall his life. The old woman left him nothing else, for she took allthe crumb for herself. The old man did his best, and by evening thetop of the dovecot was covered with earth, and he had sown it withturnip seed.Next day, and the day after that and every day, the old woman scoldedthe old man till he went up to the dovecot to see how those turnipseeds were getting on."Are they ready to eat yet?""They are not ready to eat.""Is the green sprouting?""The green is sprouting."And at last there came a day when the old man came down from thedovecot and said: "The turnips are doing finely quite big they aregetting. but all the best ones have been stolen away.""Stolen away?" cried the old woman, shaking with rage. "And have youlived all these years and not learned how to keep thieves from aturnip bed, on the top of a dovecot, on the top of a tower, on the topof a house? Out with you, and don't you dare to come back till youhave caught the thieves."The old man did not dare to tell her that the door had been bolted,although he knew it had, because he had bolted it himself. He hurriedaway out of the house, more because he wanted to get out of earshot ofher scolding than because he had any hope of finding the thieves."They may be birds," thinks he, "or the little brown squirrels. Whoelse could climb so high without using the stairs? And how is an oldman like me to get hold of them, flying through the tops of the hightrees and running up and down the branches?"And so he wandered away without his dinner into the deep forest.But God is good to old men. Hasn't He given me two little pigeons, whonearly always are as merry as all little pigeons should be? And Godled the old man through the forest, though the old man thought he wasjust wandering on, trying to lose himself and forget the scoldingvoice of the old woman.And after he had walked a long way through the dark green forest, hesaw a little hut standing under the pine trees. There was no smokecoming from the chimney, but there was such a chattering in the hutyou could hear it far away. It was like coming near a rookery atevening, or disturbing a lot of starlings. And as the old man cameslowly nearer to the hut, he thought he saw little faces looking athim through the window and peeping through the door. He could not besure, because they were gone so quickly. And all the time thechattering went on louder and louder, till the old man nearly put hishands to his ears.And then suddenly the chattering stopped. There was not a sound nonoise at all. The old man stood still. A squirrel dropped a fir coneclose by, and the old man was startled by the fall of it, becauseeverything else was so quiet."Whatever there is in the hut, it won't be worse than the old woman,"says the old man to himself. So he makes the sign of the holy Cross,and steps up to the little hut and takes a look through the door.There was no one to be seen. You would have thought the hut was empty.The old man took a step inside, bending under the little low door.Still he could see nobody, only a great heap of rags and blankets onthe sleeping place on the top of the stove. The hut was as clean as ifit had only that minute been swept by Maroosia herself. But in themiddle of the floor there was a scrap of green leaf lying, and the oldman knew in a moment that it was a scrap of green leaf from the top ofa young turnip.And while the old man looked at it, the heap of blankets and rugs onthe stove moved, first in one place and then in another. Then therewas a little laugh. Then another. And suddenly there was a great stirin the blankets, and they were all thrown back helter skelter, andthere were dozens and dozens of little queer children, laughing andlaughing and laughing, and looking at the old man. And every child hada little turnip, and showed it to the old man and laughed.Just then the door of the stove flew open, and out tumbled more of thelittle queer children, dozens and dozens of them. The more they cametumbling out into the hut, the more there seemed to be chattering inthe stove and squeezing to get out one over the top of another. Thenoise of chattering and laughing would have made your head spin. Andeveryone of the children out of the stove had a little turnip likethe others, and waved it about and showed it to the old man, andlaughed like anything."Ho," says the old man, "so you are the thieves who have stolen theturnips from the top of the dovecot?""Yes," cried the children, and the chatter rattled as fast ashailstones on the roof. "Yes! yes! yes! _We_ stole the turnips.""How did you get on to the top of the dovecot when the door into thehouse was bolted and fast?"At that the children all burst out laughing, and did not answer aword."Laugh you may," said the old man. "but it is I who get the scoldingwhen the turnips fly away in the night.""Never mind! never mind!" cried the children. "We'll pay for theturnips.""How can you pay for them?" asks the old man. "You have got nothing topay with."All the children chattered together, and looked at the old man andsmiled. Then one of them said to the old man, "Are you hungry,grandfather?""Hungry!" says the old man. "Why, yes, of course I am, my dear. I'vebeen looking for you all day, and I had to start without my dinner.""If you are hungry, open the cupboard behind you."The old man opened the cupboard."Take out the tablecloth."The old man took out the tablecloth."Spread it on the table."The old man spread the tablecloth on the table."Now!" shouted the children, chattering like a thousand nests full ofyoung birds, "we'll all sit down and have dinner."They pulled out the benches and gave the old man a chair at one end,and all crowded round the table ready to begin."But there's no food," said the old man.How they laughed!"Grandfather," one of them sings out from the other end of the table,"you just tell the tablecloth to turn inside out,""How?" says he."Tell the tablecloth to turn inside out. That's easy enough.""There's no harm in doing that," thinks the old man. so he says to thetablecloth as firmly as he could, "Now then you, tablecloth, turninside out!"The tablecloth hove itself up into the air, and rolled itself thisway and that as if it were in a whirlwind, and then suddenly laiditself flat on the table again. And somehow or other it had covereditself with dishes and plates and wooden spoons with pictures on them,and bowls of soup and mushrooms and kasha, and meat and cakes and fishand ducks, and everything else you could think of, ready for the bestdinner in the world.The chattering and laughing stopped, and the old man and those dozensand dozens of little queer children set to work and ate everything onthe table."Which of you washes the dishes?" asked the old man, when they had alldone.The children laughed."Tell the tablecloth to turn outside in.""Tablecloth," says the old man, "turn outside in."Up jumped the tablecloth with all the empty dishes and dirty platesand spoons, whirled itself this way and that in the air, and suddenlyspread itself out flat again on the table, as clean and white as whenit was taken out of the cupboard. There was not a dish or a bowl, or aspoon or a plate, or a knife to be seen. no, not even a crumb."That's a good tablecloth," says the old man."See here, grandfather," shouted the children: "you take thetablecloth along with you, and say no more about those turnips.""Well, I'm content with that," says the old man. And he folded up thetablecloth very carefully and put it away inside his shirt, and saidhe must be going."Good bye," says he, "and thank you for the dinner and thetablecloth.""Good bye," say they, "and thank you for the turnips."The old man made his way home, singing through the forest in hiscreaky old voice until he came near the little wooden house where helived with the old woman. As soon as he came near there he slippedalong like any mouse. And as soon as he put his head inside the doorthe old woman began, "Have you found the thieves, you old fool?""I found the thieves.""Who were they?""They were a whole crowd of little queer children.""Have you given them a beating they'll remember?""No, I have not.""What? Bring them to me, and I'll teach them to steal my turnips!""I haven't got them.""What have you done with them?""I had dinner with them."Well, at that the old woman flew into such a rage she could hardlyspeak. But speak she did yes, and shout too and scream and it wasall the old man could do not to run away out of the cottage. But hestood still and listened, and thought of something else. and when shehad done he said, "They paid for the turnips.""Paid for the turnips!" scolded the old woman. "A lot of children!What did they give you? Mushrooms? We can get them without losing ourturnips.""They gave me a tablecloth," said the old man. "it's a very goodtablecloth."He pulled it out of his shirt and spread it on the table. and asquickly as he could, before she began again, he said, "Tablecloth,turn inside out!"The old woman stopped short, just when she was taking breath to scoldwith, when the tablecloth jumped up and danced in the air and settledon the table again, covered with things to eat and to drink. She smeltthe meat, took a spoonful of the soup, and tried all the other dishes."Look at all the washing up it will mean," says she."Tablecloth, turn outside in!" says the old man. and there was a whirlof white cloth and dishes and everything else, and then the tableclothspread itself out on the table as clean as ever you could wish."That's not a bad tablecloth," says the old woman. "but, of course,they owed me something for stealing all those turnips."The old man said nothing. He was very tired, and he just laid down andwent to sleep.As soon as he was asleep the old woman took the tablecloth and hid itaway in an iron chest, and put a tablecloth of her own in its place."They were my turnips," says she, "and I don't see why he should havea share in the tablecloth. He's had a meal from it once at my expense,and once is enough." Then she lay down and went to sleep, grumbling toherself even in her dreams.Early in the morning the old woman woke the old man and told him to goup to the dovecot and see how those turnips were getting on.He got up and rubbed his eyes. When he saw the tablecloth on thetable, the wish came to him to have a bite of food to begin the daywith. So he stopped in the middle of putting on his shirt, and calledto the tablecloth, "Tablecloth, turn inside out!"Nothing happened. Why should anything happen? It was not the sametablecloth.The old man told the old woman. "You should have made a good feastyesterday," says he, "for the tablecloth is no good any more. That is,it's no good that way. it's like any ordinary tablecloth.""Most tablecloths are," says the old woman. "But what are you dawdlingabout? Up you go and have a look at those turnips."The old man went climbing up the narrow twisting stairs. He held onwith both hands for fear of falling, because they were so steep. Heclimbed to the top of the house, to the top of the tower, to the topof the dovecot, and looked at the turnips. He looked at the turnips,and he counted the turnips, and then he came slowly down the stairsagain wondering what the old woman would say to him."Well," says the old woman in her sharp voice, "are they doing nicely?Because if not, I know whose fault it is.""They are doing finely," said the old man. "but some of them havegone. Indeed, quite a lot of them have been stolen away.""Stolen away!" screamed the old woman. "How dare you stand there andtell me that? Didn't you find the thieves yesterday? Go and findthose children again, and take a stick with you, and don't showyourself here till you can tell me that they won't steal again in ahurry.""Let me have a bite to eat," begs the old man. "It's a long way to goon an empty stomach.""Not a mouthful!" yells the old woman. "Off with you. Letting myturnips be stolen every night, and then talking to me about bites offood!"So the old man went off again without his dinner, and hobbled awayinto the forest as quickly as he could to get out of earshot of theold woman's scolding tongue.As soon as he was out of sight the old woman stopped screaming afterhim, and went into the house and opened the iron chest and took outthe tablecloth the children had given the old man, and laid it on thetable instead of her own. She told it to turn inside out, and up itflew and whirled about and flopped down flat again, all covered withgood things. She ate as much as she could hold. Then she told thetablecloth to turn outside in, and folded it up and hid it away againin the iron chest.Meanwhile the old man tightened his belt, because he was so hungry. Hehobbled along through the green forest till he came to the little hutstanding under the pine trees. There was no smoke coming from thechimney, but there was such a chattering you would have thought thatall the Vanyas and Maroosias in Holy Russia were talking to each otherinside.He had no sooner come in sight of the hut than the dozens and dozensof little queer children came pouring out of the door to meet him. Andevery single one of them had a turnip, and showed it to the old man,and laughed and laughed as if it were the best joke in the world."I knew it was you," said the old man."Of course it was us," cried the children. "_We_ stole the turnips.""But how did you get to the top of the dovecot when the door into thehouse was bolted and fast?"The children laughed and laughed and did not answer a word."Laugh you may," says the old man. "but it is I who get the scoldingwhen the turnips fly away in the night.""Never mind! never mind!" cried the children. "We'll pay for theturnips.""All very well," says the old man. "but that tablecloth of yours itwas fine yesterday, but this morning it would not give me even a glassof tea and a hunk of black bread."At that the faces of the little queer children were troubled andgrave. For a moment or two they all chattered together, and took nonotice of the old man. Then one of them said, "Well, this time we'll give you something better. We'll give you agoat.""A goat?" says the old man."A goat with a cold in its head," said the children. and they crowdedround him and took him behind the hut where there was a gray goat witha long beard cropping the short grass."It's a good enough goat," says the old man. "I don't see anythingwrong with him.""It's better than that," cried the children. "You tell it to sneeze."The old man thought the children might be laughing at him, but he didnot care, and he remembered the tablecloth. So he took off his hat andbowed to the goat. "Sneeze, goat," says he.And instantly the goat started sneezing as if it would shake itself topieces. And as it sneezed, good gold pieces flew from it in alldirections, till the ground was thick with them."That's enough," said the children hurriedly. "tell him to stop, forall this gold is no use to us, and it's such a bother having to sweepit away.""Stop sneezing, goat," says the old man. and the goat stoppedsneezing, and stood there panting and out of breath in the middle ofthe sea of gold pieces.The children began kicking the gold pieces about, spreading them bywalking through them as if they were dead leaves. My old father usedto say that those gold pieces are lying about still for anybody topick up. but I doubt if he knew just where to look for them, or hewould have had better clothes on his back and a little more food onthe table. But who knows? Some day we may come upon that little hutsomewhere in the forest, and then we shall know what to look for.The children laughed and chattered and kicked the gold pieces this wayand that into the green bushes. Then they brought the old man into thehut and gave him a bowl of kasha to eat, because he had had no dinner.There was no magic about the kasha. but it was good enough kasha forall that, and hunger made it better. When the old man had finished thekasha and drunk a glass of tea and smoked a little pipe, he got up andmade a low bow and thanked the children. And the children tied a ropeto the goat and sent the old man home with it. He hobbled away throughthe forest, and as he went he looked back, and there were the littlequeer children all dancing together, and he heard them chattering andshouting: "Who stole the turnips? _We_ stole the turnips. Who paid forthe turnips? _We_ paid for the turnips. Who stole the tablecloth? Whowill pay for the tablecloth? Who will steal turnips again? _We_ willsteal turnips again."But the old man was too pleased with the goat to give much heed towhat they said. and he hobbled home through the green forest as fastas he could, with the goat trotting and walking behind him, pullingleaves off the bushes to chew as they hurried along.The old woman was waiting in the doorway of the house. She was stillas angry as ever."Have you beaten the children?" she screamed. "Have you beaten thechildren for stealing my good turnips?""No," said the old man. "they paid for the turnips.""What did they pay?""They gave me this goat.""That skinny old goat! I have three already, and the worst of them isbetter than that.""It has a cold in the head," says the old man."Worse than ever!" screams the old woman."Wait a minute," says the old man as quickly as he could, to stop herscolding. "Sneeze, goat."And the goat began to shake itself almost to bits, sneezing andsneezing and sneezing. The good gold pieces flew all ways at once. Andthe old woman threw herself after the gold pieces, picking them uplike an old hen picking up corn. As fast as she picked them up moregold pieces came showering down on her like heavy gold hail, beatingher on her head and her hands as she grubbed after those that hadfallen already."Stop sneezing, goat," says the old man. and the goat stood theretired and panting, trying to get its breath. But the old woman did notlook up till she had gathered everyone of the gold pieces. When shedid look up, she said, "There's no supper for you. I've had supper already."The old man said nothing. He tied up the goat to the doorpost of thehouse, where it could eat the green grass. Then he went into the houseand lay down, and fell asleep at once, because he was an old man andhad done a lot of walking.As soon as he was asleep the old woman untied the goat and took itaway and hid it in the bushes, and tied up one of her own goatsinstead. "They were my turnips," says she to herself, "and I don't seewhy he should have a share in the gold." Then she went in, and laydown grumbling to herself.Early in the morning she woke the old man."Get up, you lazy fellow," says she. "you would lie all day and letall the thieves in the world come in and steal my turnips. Up withyou to the dovecot and see how my turnips are getting on."The old man got up and rubbed his eyes, and climbed up the ricketystairs, creak, creak, creak, holding on with both hands, till he cameto the top of the house, to the top of the tower, to the top of thedovecot, and looked at the turnips.He was afraid to come down, for there were hardly any turnips left atall.And when he did come down, the scolding the old woman gave him wasworse than the other two scoldings rolled into one. She was so angrythat she shook like a rag in the high wind, and the old man put bothhands to his ears and hobbled away into the forest.He hobbled along as fast as he could hobble, until he came to the hutunder the pine trees. This time the little queer children were nothiding under the blankets or in the stove, or chattering in the hut.They were all over the roof of the hut, dancing and crawling about.Some of them were even sitting on the chimney. And everyone of thelittle queer children was playing with a turnip. As soon as they sawthe old man they all came tumbling off the roof, one after another,head over heels, like a lot of peas rolling off a shovel."_We_ stole the turnips!" they shouted, before the old man could sayanything at all."I know you did," says the old man. "but that does not make it anybetter for me. And it is I who get the scolding when the turnips flyaway in the night.""Never again!" shouted the children."I'm glad to hear that," says the old man."And we'll pay for the turnips.""Thank you kindly," says the old man. He hadn't the heart to be angrywith those little queer children.Three or four of them ran into the hut and came out again with awooden whistle, a regular whistle pipe, such as shepherds use. Theygave it to the old man."I can never play that," says the old man. "I don't know one tune fromanother. and if I did, my old fingers are as stiff as oak twigs.""Blow in it," cried the children. and all the others came crowdinground, laughing and chattering and whispering to each other. "Is hegoing to blow in it?" they asked. "He _is_ going to blow in it." Howthey laughed!The old man took the whistle, and gathered his breath and puffed outhis cheeks, and blew in the whistle pipe as hard as he could. Andbefore he could take the whistle from his lips, three lively whips hadslipped out of it, and were beating him as hard as they could go,although there was nobody to hold them. Phew! phew! phew! The threewhips came down on him one after the other."Blow again!" the children shouted, laughing as if they were mad."Blow again quick, quick, quick! and tell the whips to get into thewhistle."The old man did not wait to be told twice. He blew for all he wasworth, and instantly the three whips stopped beating him. "Into thewhistle!" he cried. and the three lively whips shot up into thewhistle, like three snakes going into a hole. He could hardly havebelieved they had been out at all if it had not been for the sorenessof his back."You take that home," cried the children. "That'll pay for theturnips, and put everything right.""Who knows?" said the old man. and he thanked the children, and setoff home through the green forest."Good bye," cried the little queer children. But as soon as he hadstarted they forgot all about him. When he looked round to wave hishand to them, not one of them was thinking of him. They were up againon the roof of the hut, jumping over each other and dancing andcrawling about, and rolling each other down the roof and climbing upagain, as if they had been doing nothing else all day, and were goingto do nothing else till the end of the world.The old man hobbled home through the green forest with the whistlestuck safely away into his shirt. As soon as he came to the door ofthe hut, the old woman, who was sitting inside counting the goldpieces, jumped up and started her scolding."What have the children tricked you with this time?" she screamed athim."They gave me a whistle pipe," says the old man, "and they are notgoing to steal the turnips any more.""A whistle pipe!" she screamed. "What's the good of that? It's worsethan the tablecloth and the skinny old goat."The old man said nothing."Give it to me!" screamed the old woman. "They were my turnips, so itis my whistle pipe.""Well, whatever you do, don't blow in it," says the old man, and hehands over the whistle pipe.She wouldn't listen to him."What?" says she. "I must not blow my own whistle pipe?"And with that she put the whistle pipe to her lips and blew.Out jumped the three lively whips, flew up in the air, and began tobeat her phew! phew! phew! one after another. If they made the oldman sore, it was nothing to what they did to the cross old woman."Stop them! Stop them!" she screamed, running this way and that in thehut, with the whips flying after her beating her all the time. "I'llnever scold again. I am to blame. I stole the magic tablecloth, andput an old one instead of it. I hid it in the iron chest." She ran tothe iron chest and opened it, and pulled out the tablecloth. "Stopthem! Stop them!" she screamed, while the whips laid it on hard andfast, one after the other. "I am to blame. The goat that sneezes goldpieces is hidden in the bushes. The goat by the door is one of the oldones. I wanted all the gold for myself."All this time the old man was trying to get hold of the whistle pipe.But the old woman was running about the hut so fast, with the whipsflying after her and beating her, that he could not get it out of herhands. At last he grabbed it. "Into the whistle," says he, and put itto his lips and blew.In a moment the three lively whips had hidden themselves in thewhistle. And there was the cross old woman, kissing his hand andpromising never to scold any more."That's all right," says the old man. and he fetched the sneezing goatout of the bushes and made it sneeze a little gold, just to be surethat it was that goat and no other. Then he laid the tablecloth onthe table and told it to turn inside out. Up it flew, and came downagain with the best dinner that ever was cooked, only waiting to beeaten. And the old man and the old woman sat down and ate till theycould eat no more. The old woman rubbed herself now and again. And theold man rubbed himself too. But there was never a cross word betweenthem, and they went to bed singing like nightingales."Is that the end?" Maroosia always asked."Is that all?" asked Vanya, though he knew it was not."Not quite," said old Peter. "but the tale won't go any quicker thanmy old tongue."In the morning the old woman had forgotten about her promise. And justfrom habit, she set about scolding the old man as if the whips hadnever jumped out of the whistle. She scolded him for sleeping toolong, sent him upstairs, with a lot of cross words after him, to go tothe top of the dovecot to see how those turnips were getting on.After a little the old man came down."The turnips are coming on grandly," says he, "and not a single onehas gone in the night. I told you the children said they would notsteal any more.""I don't believe you," said the old woman. "I'll see for myself. Andif any are gone, you shall pay for it, and pay for it well."Up she jumped, and tried to climb the stairs. But the stairs werenarrow and steep and twisting. She tried and tried, and could not getup at all. So she gets angrier than ever, and starts scolding the oldman again."You must carry me up," says she."I have to hold on with both hands, or I couldn't get up myself," saysthe old man."I'll get in the flour sack, and you must carry me up with yourteeth," says she. "they're strong enough."And the old woman got into the flour sack."Don't ask me any questions," says the old man. and he took the sackin his teeth and began slowly climbing up the stairs, holding on withboth hands.He climbed and climbed, but he did not climb fast enough for the oldwoman."Are we at the top?" says she.The old man said nothing, but went on, climbing up and up, nearly deadwith the weight of the old woman in the sack which he was holding inhis teeth.He climbed a little further, and the old woman screamed out, "Are we at the top now? We must be at the top. Let me out, you oldfool!"The old man said nothing. he climbed on and on.The old woman raged in the flour sack. She jumped about in the sack,and screamed at the old man, "Are we near the top now? Answer me, can't you! Answer me at once, oryou'll pay for it later. Are we near the top?""Very near," said the old man.And as he opened his mouth to say that the sack slipped from betweenhis teeth, and bump, bump, bumpety bump, the old woman in the sackfell all the way to the very bottom, bumping on every step. That wasthe end of her.After that the old man lived alone in the hut. When he wanted tobaccoor clothes or a new axe, he made the goat sneeze some gold pieces, andoff he went to the town with plenty of money in his pocket. When hewanted his dinner he had only to lay the tablecloth. He never had anywashing up to do, because the tablecloth did it for him. When hewanted to get rid of troublesome guests, he gave them the whistle toblow. And when he was lonely and wanted company, he went to thelittle hut under the pine trees and played with the little queerchildren.