Know, O thou Ifrit, that in days of yore and in ages long gonebefore, a King called Yunan reigned over the city of Fars of theland of the Roum. He was a powerful ruler and a wealthy,who had armies and guards and allies of all nations of men. buthis body was afflicted with a leprosy which leaches and men ofscience failed to heal. He drank potions and he swallowed powders and he used unguents, but naught did him good and none amongthe host of physicians availed to procure him a cure. At lastthere came to his city a mighty healer of men and one wellstricken in years, the sage Duban highs. This man was a reader ofbooks, Greek, Persian, Roman, Arabian, and Syrian. and he wasskilled in astronomy and in leechcraft, the theorick as well asthe practick. he was experienced in all that healeth and thathurteth the body. conversant with the virtues of every plant,grass and herb, and their benefit and bane. and he understoodphilosophy and had compassed the whole range of medical scienceand other branches of the knowledge tree. Now this physicianpassed but few days in the city, ere he heard of the King'smalady and all his bodily sufferings through the leprosy withwhich Allah had smitten him. and how all the doctors and wise menhad failed to heal him. Upon this he sat up through the night indeep thought and, when broke the dawn and appeared the morn andlight was again born, and the Sun greeted the Good whose beautiesthe world adorn, he donned his handsomest dress and goingin to King Yunan, he kissed the ground before him: then he prayedfor the endurance of his honour and prosperity in fairestlanguage and made himself known saying, "O King, tidings havereached I me of what befel thee through that which is in thyperson. and how the host of physicians have proved themselvesunavailing to abate it. and lo! I can cure thee, O King. and yetwill I not make thee drink of draught or anoint thee withointment." Now when King Yunan heard his words he said in hugesurprise, "How wilt thou do this? By Allah, if thou make me wholeI will enrich thee even to thy son's son and I will give theesumptuous gifts. and whatso thou wishest shall be thine and thoushalt be to me a cup companion and a friend." The Kingthen robed him with a dress of honour and entreated himgraciously and asked him, "Canst thou indeed cure me of thiscomplaint without drug and unguent?" and he answered, "Yes! Iwill heal I thee without the pains and penalties of medicine."The King marvelled with exceeding marvel and said, "O physician,when shall be this whereof thou speakest, and in how many daysshall it take place? Haste thee, O my son!" He replied,"I hearand I obey. the cure shall begin tomorrow." So saying he wentforth from the presence, and hired himself a house in the cityfor the better storage of his books and scrolls, his medicinesand his aromatic roots. Then he set to work at choosing thefittest drugs and simples and he fashioned a bat hollow within,and furnished with a handle without, for which he made a ball.the two being prepared with consummate art. On the next day whenboth were ready for use and wanted nothing more, he went up tothe King. and, kissing the ground between his hands bade him rideforth on the parade ground there to play at pall and mall.He was accompanied by his suite, Emirs and Chamberlains, Wazirsand Lords of the realm and, ere he was seated, the sage Dubancame up to him, and handing him the bat said, "Take this mall andgrip it as I do. so! and now push for the plain and leaning wellover thy horse drive the ball with all thy might until thy palmbe moist and thy body perspire: then the medicine will penetratethrough thy palm and will permeate thy person. When thou hastdone with playing and thou feelest the effects of the medicine,return to thy palace, and make the Ghusl ablation in theHammam bath, and lay thee down to sleep. so shalt thou be comewhole. and now peace be with thee!" Thereupon King Yunan took thebat from the Sage and grasped it firmly. then, mounting steed, hedrove the ball before him and gallopped after it till he reachedit, when he struck it with all his might, his palm gripping thebat handle the while. and he ceased not malling the ball till hishand waxed moist and his skin, perspiring, imbibed the medicinefrom the wood. Then the sage Duban knew that the drugs hadpenetrated his person and bade him return to the palace and enterthe Hammam without stay or delay. so King Yunan forthrightreturned and ordered them to clear for him the bath. They did so,the carpet spreaders making all haste, and the slaves all hurryand got ready a change of raiment for the King. He entered thebath and made the total ablution long and thoroughly. then donnedhis clothes within the Hammam and rode therefrom to his palacewhere he lay him down and slept. Such was the case with KingYunan, but as regards the sage Duban, he returned home and sleptas usual and when morning dawned he repaired to the palace andcraved audience. The King ordered him to be admitted. then,having kissed the ground between his hands, in allusion to theKing he recited these couplets with solemn intonation: Happy is Eloquence when thou art named her sire But mournsshe whenas other man the title claimed.O Lord of fairest presence, whose illuming rays Clear off thefogs of doubt aye veiling deeds high famed,Ne'er cease thy face to shine like Dawn and rise of Morn Andnever show Time's face with heat of ire inflamed!Thy grace hath favoured us with gifts that worked such wise Asrain clouds raining on the hills by words enframed:Freely thou lavishedst thy wealth to rise on high Till won fromTime the heights whereat thy grandeur aimed.Now when the Sage ceased reciting, the King rose quickly to hisfeet and fell on his neck. then, seating him by his side he badedress him in a sumptuous dress. for it had so happened that whenthe King left the Hammam he looked on his body and saw no traceof leprosy: the skin was all clean as virgin silver. He joyedthereat with exceeding joy, his breast broadened withdelight and he felt thoroughly happy. Presently, when it was fullday he entered his audience hall and sat upon the throne of hiskingship whereupon his Chamberlains and Grandees flocked to thepresence and with them the Sage Duban. Seeing the leach the Kingrose to him in honour and seated him by his side. then the foodtrays furnished with the daintiest viands were brought and thephysician ate with the King, nor did he cease companying him allthat day. Moreover, at nightfall he gave the physician Duban twothousand gold pieces, besides the usual dress of honour and othergifts galore, and sent him home on his own steed. After the Sagehad fared forth King Yunan again expressed his amazement at theleach's art, saying, "This man medicined my body from without noranointed me with aught of ointments: by Allah, surely this isnone other than consummate skill! I am bound to honour such a manwith re wards and distinction, and take him to my companion andmy friend during the remainder of my days." So King Yunan passedthe night in joy and gladness for that his body had been madewhole and had thrown off so pernicious a malady. On the morrowthe King went forth from his Serraglio and sat upon his throne,and the Lords of Estate stood about him, and the Emirs and Wazirssat as was their wont on his right hand and on his left. Then heasked for the Sage Duban, who came in and kissed the groundbefore him, when the King rose to greet him and, seating him byhis side, ate with him and wished him long life. Moreover herobed him and gave him gifts, and ceased not con versing with himuntil night approached. Then the King ordered him, by way ofsalary, five dresses of honour and a thousand dinars. Thephysician returned to his own house full of gratitude to theKing. Now when next morning dawned the King repaired to hisaudience hall, and his Lords and Nobles surrounded him and hisChamberlains and his Ministers, as the white en closeth the blackof the eye. Now the King had a Wazir among his Wazirs,unsightly to look upon, an ill omened spectacle. sor did,ungenerous, full of envy and evil will. When this Minister sawthe King place the physician near him and give him all thesegifts, he jaloused him and planned to do him a harm, as in thesaying on such subject, "Envy lurks in every body." and the saying, "Oppression hideth in every heart: power revealeth it andweakness concealeth it." Then the Minister came before the Kingand, kissing the ground between his hands, said, "O King of theage and of all time, thou in whose benefits I have grown tomanhood, I have weighty advice to offer thee, and if I withholdit I were a son of adultery and no true born man. wherefore anthou order me to disclose it I will so do forthwith." Quoth theKing (and he was troubled at the words of the Minister), "Andwhat is this counsel of thine?" Quoth he, "O glorious monarch,the wise of old have said: Whoso regardeth not the end, hath notFortune to friend. and indeed I have lately seen the King on farother than the right way. for he lavisheth largesse on his enemy,on one whose object is the decline and fall of his king ship: tothis man he hath shown favour, honouring him with over honour andmaking of him an intimate. Wherefore I fear for the King's life."The King, who was much troubled and changed colour, asked, "Whomcost thou suspect and anent whom doest thou hint?" and theMinister answered, "O King, an thou be asleep, wake up! I pointto the physician Duban." Rejoined the King, "Fie upon thee! Thisis a true friend who is favoured by me above all men, because hecured me with some thing which I held in my hand, and he healedmy leprosy which had baffled all physicians. indeed he is onewhose like may not be found in these days no, not in the wholeworld from furthest east to utmost west! And it is of such a manthou sayest such hard sayings. Now from this day forward I allothim a settled solde and allowances, every month a thousand goldpieces. and, were I to share with him my realm 'twere but alittle matter. Perforce I must suspect that thou speakest on thiswise from mere envy and jealousy as they relate of the KingSindibad." And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day, and ceasedsaying her permitted say. Then quoth Dunyazad, "O my sister, howpleasant is thy tale, and how tasteful, how sweet, and howgrateful!" She replied, "And where is this compared with what Icould tell thee on the coming night if the King deign spare mylife?" Then said the King in himself, "By Allah, I will not slayher until I hear the rest of her tale, for truly it is wondrous."So they rested that night in mutual embrace until the dawn. Thenthe King went forth to his Hall of Rule, and the Wazir and thetroops came in, and the audience chamber was thronged and theKing gave orders and judged and appointed and deposed and badeand forbade during the rest of that day till the Court broke up,and King Shahryar returned to his palace.When It Was The Fifth Night,Her sister said, "Do you finish for us thy story if thou be notsleepy," and she resumed: It hath reached me, O auspicious Kingand mighty Monarch, that King Yunan said to his Minister, "OWazir, thou art one whom the evil spirit of envy hath possessedbecause of this physician, and thou plottest for my putting himto death, after which I should repent me full sorely, even asrepented King Sindibad for killing his falcon." Quoth the Wazir,Pardon me, O King of the age, how was that?" So the King beganthe story of