Once upon a time there was a rich merchant whose business required himto travel abroad. Taking leave, he said to his three daughters, "Deardaughters, I would like to have something nice for you when I return. Whatshould I bring home for you?"The oldest one said, "Father dear, a beautiful pearl necklace for me!"The second one said, "I would like a finger ring with a diamond stone."The youngest one cuddled up to her father and whispered, "Daddy, apretty green nut twig for me.""Good, my dear daughters," said the merchant, "I will remember.Farewell."The merchant traveled far and purchased many goods, but he alsofaithfully remembered his daughters' wishes. To please his eldest he hadpacked a costly pearl necklace into his baggage, and he had also purchasedan equally valuable diamond ring for the middle daughter. But, howevermuch he tried, he could not find a green nut twig. For this reason he wenton foot a good distance on his homeward journey. His way led him in largepart through the woods, and he hoped thus finally to find a nut twig.However, he did not succeed, and the good father became very depressedthat he had not been able to fulfill the harmless request of his youngestand dearest child.Finally, as he was sadly making his way down a path that led through adark forest and next to a dense thicket, his hat rubbed against a twig,and it made a sound like hailstones falling on it. Looking up he saw thatit was a pretty green nut twig, from which was hanging a cluster of goldennuts. The man was delighted. He reached his hand up and plucked themagnificent twig. But in that same instant, a wild bear shot out from thethicket and stood up on his back paws, growling fiercely, as though hewere about to tear the merchant to pieces.With a terrible voice he bellowed, "Why did you pick my nut twig, you?Why? I will eat you up!"Shaking and trembling with fear the merchant said, "Dear bear, don'teat me. Let me go on my way with the little nut twig. I'll give you alarge ham and many sausages for it!"But the bear bellowed again, "Keep your ham and your sausages! I willnot eat you, only if you will promise to give me the first thing thatmeets you upon your arrival home."The merchant gladly agreed to this, for he recalled how his poodleusually ran out to greet him, and he would gladly sacrifice the poodle inorder to save his own life.Following a crude handshake the bear lumbered back into the thicket.The merchant, breathing a sigh of relief, went hurriedly and happily onhis way.The golden nut twig decorated the merchant's had splendidly as hehurried homeward. Filled with joy, the youngest girl ran to greet her dearfather. The poodle followed her with bold leaps. The oldest daughters andthe mother were not quite so fast to step out the door and greethome comer.The merchant was horrified to see that the first one to greet him washis youngest daughter. Concerned and saddened, he withdrew from the happychild's embrace, and   following the initial greetings   told them allthat had happened with the nut twig.They all cried and were very sad, but the youngest daughter showed themost courage, and she resolved to fulfill her father's promise.The mother soon thought up a good plan. She said, "Dear ones, let's notbe afraid. If the bear should come to hold you to your promise, dearhusband, instead of giving him our youngest daughter, let's give him theherdsman's daughter. He will be satisfied with her."This proposal was accepted. The daughters were happy once again, andthey were very pleased with their beautiful presents. The youngest onealways kept her nut twig with her, and she soon forgot the bear and herfather's promise.But one day a dark carriage rattled through the street and up to thefront of the merchant's house. The ugly bear climbed out and walked intothe house growling. He went up to the startled man and asked that hispromise be fulfilled. Quickly and secretly they fetched the herdsman'sdaughter, who was very ugly, dressed her in good clothes, and put her inthe bear's carriage.The journey began. Once outside the town, the bear laid his wild shaggyhead in the shepherd girl's lap and growled,Tussle me, scuffle meSoft and gentle, behind my ears,Or I will eat you, skin and boneThe girl began to do so, but she did not do it the way the bear wantedher to, and he realized that he had been deceived. He was about to eat thedisguised shepherd girl, but in her fright she quickly fled from thecarriage.Then the bear rode back to the merchant's house and, with terriblethreats, demanded the right bride. So the dear maiden had to come forward,and   following a bitterly sorrowful farewell   she rode away with theugly bridegroom.Once outside the town, he laid his coarse head in the girl's lapand growled again,Tussle me, scuffle meSoft and gentle, behind my ears,Or I will eat you, skin and boneAnd the girl did just that, and she did it so softly that it pacifiedhim, and his terrible bearish expression became friendly. Gradually thebear's poor bride began to gain some trust toward him. The journey did notlast long, for the carriage traveled extremely fast, like a windstormthrough the air. They soon came to a very dark forest, and the carriagesuddenly stopped in front of a dark and yawning cave. This was where thebear lived. Oh, how the girl trembled!The bear embraced her with his claw arms and said to her with afriendly growl, "This is where you will live, my little bride. and youwill be happy, as long as you behave yourself here, otherwise my wildanimals will tear you apart."As soon as they had gone a few steps inside the dark cave, he unlockedan iron door and stepped with his bride into a room that was filled withpoisonous worms. They hissed at them rapaciously. The bear growled intohis little bride's ear,Do not look around!Neither right nor left,Straight ahead, and you'll be safe!Then the girl did indeed walk through the room without lookingaround, and all the while not a single worm stirred or moved. And in thismanner they went through ten more rooms, and the last one was filled withthe most terrible creatures: dragons and snakes, toads swollen withpoison, basilisks and lindorms. And in each room the bear growled,Do not look around!Neither right nor left,Straight ahead, and you'll be safe!The girl trembled and quaked with fear, like the leaves of an aspen,but she remained steadfast and did not look around, neither right norleft. When the door to the twelfth room opened up, a glistening stream oflight shone toward the two of them. The most beautiful music sounded fromwithin, and everywhere there were cries of joy.Before the bride could comprehend this   she was still tremblingfrom seeing such horrible things, and now this surprising loveliness  there was a terrible clap of thunder, and she thought that earth andheaven were breaking apart.It was soon quiet once again. The forest, the cave, the poisonousanimals, and the bear had all disappeared. In their place stood a splendidcastle with rooms decorated in gold and with beautifully dressed servants.And the bear had been transformed into a handsome young man. He was theprince of this magnificent castle, and he pressed his little bride to hisheart, thanking her a thousand times that she had redeemed him and hisservants   the wild animals   from their enchantment.She was now a high and wealthy princess, but she always wore thebeautiful nut twig on her breast. It never wilted, and she especiallyliked to wear it, because it had been the key to her good fortune.Her parents and sisters were soon informed of this happy turn ofevents. The bear prince had them brought to the castle, where they livedin splendid happiness forever after.