A certain man and a merchant to boot had married a fair wife, awoman of perfect beauty and grace, symmetry and loveliness, ofwhom he was mad jealous, and who contrived successfully to keephim from travel. At last an occasion compelling him to leave her,he went to the bird market and bought him for one hundred goldpieces a she parrot which he set in his house to act as duenna,expecting her to acquaint him on his return with what had passedduring the whole time of his absence. for the bird was kenningand cunning and never forgot what she had seen and heard. Now hisfair wife had fallen in love with a young Turk, who usedto visit her, and she feasted him by day and lay with him bynight. When the man had made his journey and won his wish he camehome. and, at once causing the Parrot be brought to him,questioned her concerning the conduct of his consort whilst hewas in foreign parts. Quoth she, "Thy wife hath a man friend whopassed every night with her during thine absence." Thereupon thehusband went to his wife in a violent rage and bashed her with abashing severe enough to satisfy any body. The woman, suspectingthat one of the slave girls had been tattling to the master,called them together and questioned them upon their oaths, whenall swore that they had kept the secret, but that the Parrot hadnot, adding, "And we heard her with our own ears." Upon this thewoman bade one of the girls to set a hand mill under the cage andgrind therewith and a second to sprinkle water through the cageroof and a third to run about, right and left, dashing a mirrorof bright steel through the livelong night. Next morning when thehusband returned home after being entertained by one of hisfriends, he bade bring the Parrot before him and asked what hadtaken place whilst he was away. "Pardon me, O my master," quoththe bird, "I could neither hear nor see aught by reason of theexceeding murk and the thunder and lightning which lastedthroughout the night." As it happened to be the summer tide themaster was astounded and cried, "But we are now in midTammuz, and this is not the time for rains and storms.""Ay, by Allah," rejoined the bird, "I saw with these eyes what mytongue hath told thee." Upon this the man, not knowing the casenor smoking the plot, waxed exceeding wroth. and, holding thathis wife had been wrongously accused, put forth his hand andpulling the Parrot from her cage dashed her upon the ground withsuch force that he killed her on the spot. Some days after wardsone of his slave girls confessed to him the whole truth,yet would he not believe it till he saw the young Turk, hiswife's lover, coming out of her chamber, when he bared his bladeand slew him by a blow on the back of the neck. and hedid the same by the adulteress. and thus the twain, laden withmortal sin, went straightways to Eternal Fire. Then the merchantknew that the Parrot had told him the truth anent all she hadseen and he mourned grievously for her loss, when mourningavailed him not. The Minister, hearing the words of King Yu nan,rejoined, 'O Monarch, high in dignity, and what harm have I donehim, or what evil have I seen from him that I should compass hisdeath? I would not do this thing, save to serve thee, and soonshalt thou sight that it is right. and if thou accept my advicethou shalt be saved, otherwise thou shalt be destroyed even as acertain Wazir who acted treacherously by the young Prince." Askedthe King, "How was that?" and the Minister thus began