Once upon a time there stood before the palace of an emperor a goldenapple tree, which blossomed and bore fruit each night. But every morningthe fruit was gone, and the boughs were bare of blossom, without anyonebeing able to discover who was the thief.At last the emperor said to his eldest son, 'If only I could preventthose robbers from stealing my fruit, how happy I should be!'And his son replied, 'I will sit up to night and watch the tree, and Ishall soon see who it is!'So directly it grew dark the young man went and hid himself near theapple tree to begin his watch, but the apples had scarcely begun toripen before he fell asleep, and when he awoke at sunrise the appleswere gone. He felt very much ashamed of himself, and went with laggingfeet to tell his father!Of course, though the eldest son had failed, the second made sure thathe would do better, and set out gaily at nightfall to watch the appletree. But no sooner had he lain himself down than his eyes grew heavy,and when the sunbeams roused him from his slumbers there was not anapple left on the tree.Next came the turn of the youngest son, who made himself a comfortablebed under the apple tree, and prepared himself to sleep. Towardsmidnight he awoke, and sat up to look at the tree. And behold! theapples were beginning to ripen, and lit up the whole palace with theirbrightness. At the same moment nine golden pea hens flew swiftly throughthe air, and while eight alighted upon the boughs laden with fruit, theninth fluttered to the ground where the prince lay, and instantly waschanged into a beautiful maiden, more beautiful far than any lady inthe emperor's court. The prince at once fell in love with her, and theytalked together for some time, till the maiden said her sisters hadfinished plucking the apples, and now they must all go home again. Theprince, however, begged her so hard to leave him a little of the fruitthat the maiden gave him two apples, one for himself and one for hisfather. Then she changed herself back into a pea hen, and the whole nineflew away.As soon as the sun rose the prince entered the palace, and held outthe apple to his father, who was rejoiced to see it, and praised hisyoungest son heartily for his cleverness. That evening the princereturned to the apple tree, and everything passed as before, and so ithappened for several nights. At length the other brothers grew angry atseeing that he never came back without bringing two golden apples withhim, and they went to consult an old witch, who promised to spy afterhim, and discover how he managed to get the apples. So, when the eveningcame, the old woman hid herself under the tree and waited for theprince. Before long he arrived and laid down on his bed, and was soonfast asleep. Towards midnight there was a rush of wings, and the eightpea hens settled on the tree, while the ninth became a maiden, and ranto greet the prince. Then the witch stretched out her hand, and cut offa lock of the maiden's hair, and in an instant the girl sprang up, apea hen once more, spread her wings and flew away, while her sisters,who were busily stripping the boughs, flew after her.When he had recovered from his surprise at the unexpected disappearanceof the maiden, the prince exclaimed, 'What can be the matter?' and,looking about him, discovered the old witch hidden under the bed. Hedragged her out, and in his fury called his guards, and ordered them toput her to death as fast as possible. But that did no good as far as thepea hens went. They never came back any more, though the prince returnedto the tree every night, and wept his heart out for his lost love. Thiswent on for some time, till the prince could bear it no longer, andmade up his mind he would search the world through for her. In vain hisfather tried to persuade him that his task was hopeless, and that othergirls were to be found as beautiful as this one. The prince would listento nothing, and, accompanied by only one servant, set out on his quest.After travelling for many days, he arrived at length before a largegate, and through the bars he could see the streets of a town, and eventhe palace. The prince tried to pass in, but the way was barred by thekeeper of the gate, who wanted to know who he was, why he was there, andhow he had learnt the way, and he was not allowed to enter unless theempress herself came and gave him leave. A message was sent to her, andwhen she stood at the gate the prince thought he had lost his wits, forthere was the maiden he had left his home to seek. And she hastened tohim, and took his hand, and drew him into the palace. In a few days theywere married, and the prince forgot his father and his brothers, andmade up his mind that he would live and die in the castle.One morning the empress told him that she was going to take a walk byherself, and that she would leave the keys of twelve cellars to hiscare. 'If you wish to enter the first eleven cellars,' said she, 'youcan. but beware of even unlocking the door of the twelfth, or it will bethe worse for you.'The prince, who was left alone in the castle, soon got tired of being byhimself, and began to look about for something to amuse him.'What CAN there be in that twelfth cellar,' he thought to himself,'which I must not see?' And he went downstairs and unlocked the doors,one after the other. When he got to the twelfth he paused, but hiscuriosity was too much for him, and in another instant the key wasturned and the cellar lay open before him. It was empty, save for alarge cask, bound with iron hoops, and out of the cask a voice wassaying entreatingly, 'For goodness' sake, brother, fetch me some water.I am dying of thirst!'The prince, who was very tender hearted, brought some water at once, andpushed it through a hole in the barrel. and as he did so one of the ironhoops burst.He was turning away, when a voice cried the second time, 'Brother, forpity's sake fetch me some water. I'm dying of thirst!'So the prince went back, and brought some more water, and again a hoopsprang.And for the third time the voice still called for water. and when waterwas given it the last hoop was rent, the cask fell in pieces, and outflew a dragon, who snatched up the empress just as she was returningfrom her walk, and carried her off. Some servants who saw what hadhappened came rushing to the prince, and the poor young man went nearlymad when he heard the result of his own folly, and could only cry outthat he would follow the dragon to the ends of the earth, until he gothis wife again.For months and months he wandered about, first in this direction andthen in that, without finding any traces of the dragon or his captive.At last he came to a stream, and as he stopped for a moment to lookat it he noticed a little fish lying on the bank, beating its tailconvulsively, in a vain effort to get back into the water.'Oh, for pity's sake, my brother,' shrieked the little creature, 'helpme, and put me back into the river, and I will repay you some day. Takeone of my scales, and when you are in danger twist it in your fingers,and I will come!'The prince picked up the fish and threw it into the water. then he tookoff one of its scales, as he had been told, and put it in his pocket,carefully wrapped in a cloth. Then he went on his way till, some milesfurther down the road, he found a fox caught in a trap.'Oh! be a brother to me!' called the fox, 'and free me from this trap,and I will help you when you are in need. Pull out one of my hairs, andwhen you are in danger twist it in your fingers, and I will come.'So the prince unfastened the trap, pulled out one of the fox's hairs,and continued his journey. And as he was going over the mountain hepassed a wolf entangled in a snare, who begged to be set at liberty.'Only deliver me from death,' he said, 'and you will never be sorryfor it. Take a lock of my fur, and when you need me twist it in yourfingers.' And the prince undid the snare and let the wolf go.For a long time he walked on, without having any more adventures, tillat length he met a man travelling on the same road.'Oh, brother!' asked the prince, 'tell me, if you can, where thedragon emperor lives?'The man told him where he would find the palace, and how long it wouldtake him to get there, and the prince thanked him, and followed hisdirections, till that same evening he reached the town where thedragon emperor lived. When he entered the palace, to his great joy hefound his wife sitting alone in a vast hall, and they began hastily toinvent plans for her escape.There was no time to waste, as the dragon might return directly, so theytook two horses out of the stable, and rode away at lightning speed.Hardly were they out of sight of the palace than the dragon came homeand found that his prisoner had flown. He sent at once for his talkinghorse, and said to him:'Give me your advice. what shall I do have my supper as usual, or setout in pursuit of them?''Eat your supper with a free mind first,' answered the horse, 'andfollow them afterwards.'So the dragon ate till it was past mid day, and when he could eat nomore he mounted his horse and set out after the fugitives. In a shorttime he had come up with them, and as he snatched the empress out of hersaddle he said to the prince:'This time I will forgive you, because you brought me the water when Iwas in the cask. but beware how you return here, or you will pay for itwith your life.'Half mad with grief, the prince rode sadly on a little further, hardlyknowing what he was doing. Then he could bear it no longer and turnedback to the palace, in spite of the dragon's threats. Again the empresswas sitting alone, and once more they began to think of a scheme bywhich they could escape the dragon's power.'Ask the dragon when he comes home,' said the prince, 'where he got thatwonderful horse from, and then you can tell me, and I will try to findanother like it.'Then, fearing to meet his enemy, he stole out of the castle.Soon after the dragon came home, and the empress sat down near him, andbegan to coax and flatter him into a good humour, and at last she said:'But tell me about that wonderful horse you were riding yesterday.There cannot be another like it in the whole world. Where did you get itfrom?'And he answered:'The way I got it is a way which no one else can take. On the top of ahigh mountain dwells an old woman, who has in her stables twelve horses,each one more beautiful than the other. And in one corner is a thin,wretched looking animal whom no one would glance at a second time,but he is in reality the best of the lot. He is twin brother to my ownhorse, and can fly as high as the clouds themselves. But no one can everget this horse without first serving the old woman for three whole days.And besides the horses she has a foal and its mother, and the man whoserves her must look after them for three whole days, and if he does notlet them run away he will in the end get the choice of any horse as apresent from the old woman. But if he fails to keep the foal and itsmother safe on any one of the three nights his head will pay.'The next day the prince watched till the dragon left the house, and thenhe crept in to the empress, who told him all she had learnt from hergaoler. The prince at once determined to seek the old woman on the topof the mountain, and lost no time in setting out. It was a long andsteep climb, but at last he found her, and with a low bow he began:'Good greeting to you, little mother!''Good greeting to you, my son! What are you doing here?''I wish to become your servant,' answered he.'So you shall,' said the old woman. 'If you can take care of my mare forthree days I will give you a horse for wages, but if you let her strayyou will lose your head'. and as she spoke she led him into a courtyardsurrounded with palings, and on every post a man's head was stuck. Onepost only was empty, and as they passed it cried out:'Woman, give me the head I am waiting for!'The old woman made no answer, but turned to the prince and said:'Look! all those men took service with me, on the same conditions asyou, but not one was able to guard the mare!'But the prince did not waver, and declared he would abide by his words.When evening came he led the mare out of the stable and mounted her,and the colt ran behind. He managed to keep his seat for a long time,in spite of all her efforts to throw him, but at length he grew so wearythat he fell fast asleep, and when he woke he found himself sitting on alog, with the halter in his hands. He jumped up in terror, but the marewas nowhere to be seen, and he started with a beating heart in search ofher. He had gone some way without a single trace to guide him, when hecame to a little river. The sight of the water brought back to his mindthe fish whom he had saved from death, and he hastily drew the scalefrom his pocket. It had hardly touched his fingers when the fishappeared in the stream beside him.'What is it, my brother?' asked the fish anxiously.'The old woman's mare strayed last night, and I don't know where to lookfor her.''Oh, I can tell you that: she has changed herself into a big fish, andher foal into a little one. But strike the water with the halter andsay, "Come here, O mare of the mountain witch!" and she will come.'The prince did as he was bid, and the mare and her foal stood beforehim. Then he put the halter round her neck, and rode her home, the foalalways trotting behind them. The old woman was at the door to receivethem, and gave the prince some food while she led the mare back to thestable.'You should have gone among the fishes,' cried the old woman, strikingthe animal with a stick.'I did go among the fishes,' replied the mare. 'but they are no friendsof mine, for they betrayed me at once.''Well, go among the foxes this time,' said she, and returned to thehouse, not knowing that the prince had overheard her.So when it began to grow dark the prince mounted the mare for the secondtime and rode into the meadows, and the foal trotted behind its mother.Again he managed to stick on till midnight: then a sleep overtook himthat he could not battle against, and when he woke up he found himself,as before, sitting on the log, with the halter in his hands. He gave ashriek of dismay, and sprang up in search of the wanderers. As he wenthe suddenly remembered the words that the old woman had said to themare, and he drew out the fox hair and twisted it in his fingers.'What is it, my brother?' asked the fox, who instantly appeared beforehim.'The old witch's mare has run away from me, and I do not know where tolook for her.''She is with us,' replied the fox, 'and has changed herself into a bigfox, and her foal into a little one, but strike the ground with a halterand say, "Come here, O mare of the mountain witch!"'The prince did so, and in a moment the fox became a mare and stoodbefore him, with the little foal at her heels. He mounted and rode back,and the old woman placed food on the table, and led the mare back to thestable.'You should have gone to the foxes, as I told you,' said she, strikingthe mare with a stick.'I did go to the foxes,' replied the mare, 'but they are no friends ofmine and betrayed me.''Well, this time you had better go to the wolves,' said she, not knowingthat the prince had heard all she had been saying.The third night the prince mounted the mare and rode her out to themeadows, with the foal trotting after. He tried hard to keep awake,but it was of no use, and in the morning there he was again on the log,grasping the halter. He started to his feet, and then stopped, for heremembered what the old woman had said, and pulled out the wolf's greylock.'What is it, my brother?' asked the wolf as it stood before him.'The old witch's mare has run away from me,' replied the prince, 'and Idon't know where to find her.''Oh, she is with us,' answered the wolf, 'and she has changed herselfinto a she wolf, and the foal into a cub. but strike the earth here withthe halter, and cry, "Come to me, O mare of the mountain witch."'The prince did as he was bid, and as the hair touched his fingers thewolf changed back into a mare, with the foal beside her. And when he hadmounted and ridden her home the old woman was on the steps to receivethem, and she set some food before the prince, but led the mare back toher stable.'You should have gone among the wolves,' said she, striking her with astick.'So I did,' replied the mare, 'but they are no friends of mine andbetrayed me.'The old woman made no answer, and left the stable, but the prince was atthe door waiting for her.'I have served you well,' said he, 'and now for my reward.''What I promised that will I perform,' answered she. 'Choose one ofthese twelve horses. you can have which you like.''Give me, instead, that half starved creature in the corner,' asked theprince. 'I prefer him to all those beautiful animals.''You can't really mean what you say?' replied the woman.'Yes, I do,' said the prince, and the old woman was forced to let himhave his way. So he took leave of her, and put the halter round hishorse's neck and led him into the forest, where he rubbed him down tillhis skin was shining like gold. Then he mounted, and they flew straightthrough the air to the dragon's palace. The empress had been looking forhim night and day, and stole out to meet him, and he swung her on to hissaddle, and the horse flew off again.Not long after the dragon came home, and when he found the empress wasmissing he said to his horse, 'What shall we do? Shall we eat and drink,or shall we follow the runaways?' and the horse replied, 'Whether youeat or don't eat, drink or don't drink, follow them or stay at home,matters nothing now, for you can never, never catch them.'But the dragon made no reply to the horse's words, but sprang on hisback and set off in chase of the fugitives. And when they saw him comingthey were frightened, and urged the prince's horse faster and faster,till he said, 'Fear nothing. no harm can happen to us,' and their heartsgrew calm, for they trusted his wisdom.Soon the dragon's horse was heard panting behind, and he cried out, 'Oh,my brother, do not go so fast! I shall sink to the earth if I try tokeep up with you.'And the prince's horse answered, 'Why do you serve a monster like that?Kick him off, and let him break in pieces on the ground, and come andjoin us.'And the dragon's horse plunged and reared, and the dragon fell on arock, which broke him in pieces. Then the empress mounted his horse,and rode back with her husband to her kingdom, over which they ruled formany years.(Volksmarchen der Serben.)