About the year 800, there lived a rich nobleman in a sequestered place of Scotland, where he wished to conceal his name, birth, and parentage, as he had fled from the hands of justice to save his life for an action he had been guilty of committing in his early years. It was supposed, and not without some good show of reason, that his name was Malcolm, brother to Fingal, King of Morven. Be this as it may, it so happened that he had chosen a pious and godly woman for his consort. who, on giving birth to a daughter, soon after departed this life.Malcolm (as we shall call him, for the better understanding of his history) lived a widower for the space of sixteen years, when thinking that his daughter now became of such age as to leave him, if she got a good offer. With these thoughts full in his head, he went to a distant place of the country where the thane of Mull dwelt, and made love to one of his daughters, whom he afterwards married and brought to his own domain.The new come bride had no sooner fixed her eyes on Beatrix, (for that was his daughter's name) than she conceived the most deadly hatred imaginable. so much so, that it almost deprived her of her rest, meditating schemes how to get rid of her, as she envied her for her superior beauty.One day on her husband going ahunting, she took the young lady and bound her by an oath that whatever she saw or heard her do or say, she would conceal the same from her father. The oath being extorted from her by threatening her with death and destruction, if she did not comply.The first act of the stepmother was to go into the garden and cut down a favourite tree which was in full blossom, and so destroyed the root and beauty of the branches by burning the same. On Malcolm's return, he immediately discovered the want of his favourite tree, and getting into such a passion, few could approach the place where he was for a considerable length of time. When his passion had somewhat subsided, he asked his wife what had become of it, or how it had been destroyed, but she desired him to ask his daughter, as she knew nothing about it herself. Beatrix was then summoned before him, and interrogated with all the rigour of a passionate father, as to her knowledge of the destruction of his tree. Her only answer was, that He was above who knew all about it. No more satisfaction would she give him.A second time he went from home, and on his return found his favourite hound weltering in his blood. This again renewed his passion, but who was the guilty person he could never learn. on enquiring at his daughter, he received the same answer as formerly.A third time he went ahunting, and on his return found his favourite hawk lying dead. but the perpetrators of these horrid deeds he could not discover. On applying to his wife, he was requested to ask his daughter. and on consulting her, her answer was as at the first. His wife thereby seeing that all the stratagems which she had devised for her destruction had proved abortive. to gratify her mortal hatred, rather than suffer her to live, she would sacrifice everything she had in the world.One year had scarcely passed in this disagreeable manner, when the lady was delivered of a fine boy, which soon became the darling of his father. This was too glaring not to be easily perceived by the mother. but rather than live the life which she had done since they had been married, with the envious venom rankling in her breast, she would destroy her own child and offspring. This being determined upon, one night when Beatrix was in bed soundly sleeping, dreading no harm, this bad woman, her stepmother, took a knife, bereaved the sweetly smiling young thing of its life, and laid it with the knife reeking in gore, into the arms of the innocent Beatrix.After having been in bed for some time with her husband, she started as from some frightful dream, crying, "O, my child, what has become of my lovely child!"This alarmed the father, who, on looking for the child, it was not to be found. The mother then said, she was much afraid that Beatrix had stole it away from them while they slept, and had murdered it. The father, by no means could be made to believe this. but upon examining her bed, the child was discovered horribly mangled, and the knife beside it.He was now petrified with horror, and could ask nor answer anything. It was in vain for the young lady to plead ignorance, or deny the guilty deed, the proofs were too strong, as certainly no one could have suspected the unnatural mother of such cruel barbarity. and no one else had access to the place where it lay but Beatrix.Her father then having determined to put her to the most cruel torture for the death of his beloved child. she was now charged with all the other bad deeds which had been committed for the space of the bygone twelve months in his house and premises, which caused him to take her to a wood, and after having cut off her right hand and arm, he next cut off her right leg. She still pleaded her innocence, but rather than perjure herself, she would suffer all that he choosed to inflict upon her. but as proof of her innocence, she told him on his way homewards, a thorn would so stick in his foot that none but herself could extract, and that only after her arm and leg had been reunited to her body as before. He paid no attention to this, but next cut out her tongue, and left her to perish, or to be destroyed by wild beasts in the wood.She had not, however, lain long in this humiliating posture, till a knight came riding that way, when, on observing her, he alighted from his horse, and enquired the nature of her sufferings As she could not speak, she made signs to him for pen, ink, and paper, when she wrote an account of the whole. He then took her on his horse behind him and carried her home to his mother, who being acquainted with the virtues of the water of a particular well near by, she soon restored to her the full use of her amputated limbs. but her tongue still continued useless.The knight, notwithstanding the deficiency of the want of her tongue and speech, took such a liking to her that they were shortly after married, and lived in the greatest peace and pleasure, till one day that he was necessitated to leave his country on some very urgent business. Previously to his setting off, he had matters so arranged, that by giving certain directions to his wife, she might write to him by her page. All things being prepared, the knight went away with a sorrowful heart. He had not been long away till his wife became sick at heart (being pregnant), and longed to see her esteemed lord.A message was then sent to the place of his residence with a request that he would return immediately home. The messenger was her own page, who was enjoined to make every dispatch, and not to tarry on the way. but these instructions he soon forgot when out of sight and reach of his mistress.As he journeyed on his way, it so happened that he should take up his abode for the night in the very house of Beatrix's father. His lady, observing the stranger, was desirous of knowing his errand, and so prevailed upon him to give her a sight of the letter which he carried from Beatrix to her husband. By her fair speeches, she so won his heart, that he gave it to her. On opening it she soon discovered from whom it came, and tore it, and wrote in its place one, as if come from his mother, requesting him to put away or destroy the bad woman he had brought unto her.To this letter he made no reply, when a second one was written by his wife, not knowing the cause of his delay. but it shared the same fate as the former, and another of like tenor, breathing the bitterest enmity and hatred against his beloved and virtuous wife, put in its place. On receiving this second menacing letter, he hurried home, and finding his wife in the house, without any provocation or enquiry, he immediately dragged her forth, and abused her very unmercifully, till having driven her into a ditch to get quit of her altogether, a powerful herb happened to get into her mouth in the course of her struggle, which at once restored to her the use of her speech.It now became her turn to interrogate him, and ask why he had used her so cruelly without a cause. He then showed her the letters which he had received purporting to be from his mother. She said they were not written by his mother, as they lived on the most friendly terms imaginable. It was then referred to his mother, who, on seeing them, was no less surprised than vexed at them, and at his maltreating his wife so basely.The page was then called and examined, when he confessed what he had done. The knight, without further enquiry into the matter, took his sword and cut off his head, and threw it away, as a warning to all others not to betray their trust, but behave in a more upright and honourable manner.As it was at length discovered that the cruel stepmother had been the sole cause of the whole of Beatrix's misfortunes, she was adjudged to be put to an ignominious death by the most cruel torture, which was put into execution immediately after, as a just reward for her hatred and cruelty.Beatrix then relieved her father from the pain which he suffered in his foot by a thorn which stuck in it, and baffled all the medical skill of that part of the country. They afterwards lived to a good old age and died in peace.