I was last night with a party who celebrated a recitation of theur an, for which purpose they had assembled the professorsof religion and law. and when these reciters had accomplished theirtask, the servants spread a repast, comprising among other dishes azirbajeh. We approached, therefore, to eat of the zirbajeh.but one of the company drew back, and refused to partake of it: weconjured him. yet he swore that he would not eat of it: and we pressedhim again. but he said, Press me not. for I have suffered enough fromeating of this dish. And when we had finished, we said to him, By Allah,tell us the reason of thine abstaining from eating of this zirbajeh. Hereplied, Because I cannot eat of it unless I wash my hands forty timeswith kali, and forty times with cyperus, and forty times with soap.altogether, a hundred and twenty times. And upon this, the giver of theentertainment ordered his servants, and they brought water and the otherthings which this man required: so he washed his hands as he haddescribed, and advanced, though with disgust, and, having seatedhimself, stretched forth his hand as one in fear, and put it into thezirbajeh, and began to eat, while we regarded him with the utmostwonder. His hand trembled, and when he put it forth, we saw that histhumb was cut off, and that he ate with his four fingers: we thereforesaid to him, We conjure thee, by Allah, to tell us how was thy thumbmaimed: was it thus created by God, or hath some accident happened toit? O my brothers, he answered, not only have I lost this thumb, butalso the thumb of the other hand. and each of my feet is in like mannerdeprived of the great toe: but see ye: and, so saying, he uncovered thestump of the thumb of his other hand, and we found it like the right.and so also his feet, destitute of the great toes. At the sight of this,our wonder increased, and we said to him, We are impatient to hear thystory, and thine account of the cause of the amputation of thy thumbsand great toes, and the reason of thy washing thy hands a hundred andtwenty times. So he said, Know that my father was a great merchant, the chief of the merchants ofthe city of Baghdad in the time of the Khaleefeh Haroon Er Rasheed. buthe was ardently addicted to the drinking of wine, and hearing the lute.and when he died, he left nothing. I buried him, and caused recitationsof the ur an to be performed for him, and, after I had mourned for himdays and nights, I opened his shop, and found that he had left in it butfew goods, and that his debts were many: however, I induced hiscreditors to wait, and calmed their minds, and betook myself to sellingand buying from week to week, and so paying the creditors.Thus I continued to do for a considerable period, until I had dischargedall the debts and increased my capital. and as I was sitting one day, Ibeheld a young lady, than whom my eye had never beheld any morebeautiful, decked with magnificent ornaments and apparel, riding on amule, with a slave before her and a slave behind her. and she stoppedthe mule at the entrance of the market street, and entered, followed bya eunuch, who said to her, O my mistress, enter, but inform no one whothou art, lest thou open the fire of indignation upon us. The eunuchthen further cautioned her. and when she looked at the shops of themerchants, she found none more handsome than mine. so, when she arrivedbefore me, with the eunuch following her, she sat down upon the seat ofmy shop, and saluted me. and I never heard speech more charming thanhers, or words more sweet. She then drew aside the veil from her face,and I directed at her a glance which drew from me a sigh. my heart wascaptivated by her love, and I continued repeatedly gazing at her face,and recited these two verses: Say to the beauty in the dove coloured veil, Death would indeedbe welcome to relieve me from thy torment.Favour me with a visit, that so I may live. See, I stretch forthmy hand to accept thy liberality.And when she had heard my recitation of them, she answered thus: May I lose my heart if it cease to love you! For verily my heartloveth none but you.If my eye regard any charms but yours, may the sight of you neverrejoice it after absence!She then said to me, O youth, hast thou any handsome stuffs? O mymistress, I answered, thy slave is a poor man. but wait until the othermerchants open their shops, and then I will bring thee what thoudesirest. So I conversed with her, drowned in the sea of her love, andbewildered by my passion for her, until the merchants had opened theirshops, when I arose, and procured all that she wanted, and the price ofthese stuffs was five thousand pieces of silver: and she handed them allto the eunuch, who took them. after which, they both went out from themarket street, and the slaves brought to her the mule, and she mounted,without telling me whence she was, and I was ashamed to mention thesubject to her: consequently, I became answerable for the price to themerchants, incurring a debt of five thousand pieces of silver.I went home, intoxicated with her love, and they placed before me thesupper, and I ate a morsel. but reflections upon her beauty andloveliness prevented my eating more. I desired to sleep, but sleep camenot to me. and in this condition I remained for a week. The merchantsdemanded of me their money. but I prevailed upon them to wait anotherweek. and after this week, the lady came again, riding upon a mule, andattended by a eunuch and two other slaves. and, having saluted me, said,O my master, we have been tardy in bringing to thee the price of thestuffs: bring now the money changer, and receive it. So themoney changer came, and the eunuch gave him the money, and I took it,and sat conversing with her until the market was replenished, and themerchants opened their shops, when she said to me, Procure for me suchand such things. Accordingly, I procured for her what she desired of themerchants, and she took the goods and departed without saying anythingto me respecting the price. When she had gone, therefore, I repented ofwhat I had done. for I had procured for her what she demanded for theprice of a thousand pieces of gold. and as soon as she had disappearedfrom my sight, I said within myself, What kind of love is this? She hathbrought me five thousand pieces of silver, and taken goods for athousand pieces of gold! I feared that the result would be mybankruptcy, and the loss of the property of others, and said, Themerchants know none but me, and this woman is no other than a cheat, whohath imposed upon me by her beauty and loveliness: seeing me to beyoung, she hath laughed at me, and I asked her not where was herresidence.I remained in a state of perplexity, and her absence was prolonged morethan a month. Meanwhile the merchants demanded of me their money, and sopressed me that I offered my possessions for sale, and was on the brinkof ruin. but as I was sitting absorbed in reflection, suddenly shealighted at the gate of the market street, and came in to me. As soon asI beheld her, my solicitude ceased, and I forgot the trouble which I hadsuffered. She approached, and addressed me with her agreeableconversation, and said, Produce the scales, and weigh thy money: andshe gave me the price of the goods which she had taken, with a surplus.after which, she amused herself by talking with me, and I almost diedwith joy and happiness. She then said to me, Hast thou a wife? Ianswered, No: for I am not acquainted with any woman: and wept. So sheasked me, What causeth thee to weep? And I answered, A thought that hathcome into my mind: and, taking some pieces of gold, gave them to theeunuch, requesting him to grant me his mediation in the affair. uponwhich he laughed, and said, She is in love with thee more than thou artwith her, and hath no want of the stuffs, but hath done this only fromher love of thee: propose to her, therefore, what thou wilt. for shewill not oppose thee in that which thou wilt say. Now she observed megiving the pieces of gold to the eunuch, and returned, and resumed herseat. and I said to her, Shew favour to thy slave, and pardon me forthat which I am about to say. I then acquainted her with the feelings ofmy heart, and my declaration pleased her, and she consented to myproposal, saying, This eunuch will come with my letter. and do thou whathe shall tell thee. and she arose, and departed.I went to the merchants, and delivered to them their money, and allprofited except myself. for when she left me I mourned for theinterruption of our intercourse, and I slept not during the whole of thenext night: but a few days after, her eunuch came to me, and I receivedhim with honour, and asked him respecting his mistress. He answered, Sheis sick: and I said to him, Disclose to me her history. He replied, Thelady Zubeydeh, the wife of Haroon Er Rasheed, brought up this damsel,and she is one of her slaves: she had desired of her mistress to beallowed the liberty of going out and returning at pleasure, and thelatter gave her permission: she continued, therefore, to do so until shebecame a chief confident. after which, she spoke of thee to hermistress, and begged that she would marry her to thee: but her mistresssaid, I will not do it until I see this young man, and if he have adesire for thee, I will marry thee to him. We therefore wish tointroduce thee immediately into the palace. and if thou enter withoutany one's having knowledge of thy presence, thou wilt succeed inaccomplishing thy marriage with her. but if thy plot be discovered, thyhead will be struck off. What, then, sayest thou? I answered, Good: Iwill go with thee, and await the event that shall befall me there. Assoon, then, as this next night shall have closed in, said the eunuch,repair to the mosque which the lady Zubeydeh hath built on the bank ofthe Tigris, and there say thy prayers, and pass the night. Mostwillingly, I replied.Accordingly, when the time of nightfall arrived, I went to the mosque,and said my prayers there, and passed the night. and as soon as themorning began to dawn, I saw two eunuchs approaching in a small boat,conveying some empty chests, which they brought into the mosque. One ofthem then departed, and the other remained. and I looked attentively athim, and lo, it was he who had been our intermediary: and soon after,the damsel, my companion, came up to us. I rose to her when sheapproached, and embraced her. and she kissed me, and wept: and after wehad conversed together for a little while, she took me and placed me ina chest, and locked it upon me. The slaves then brought aquantity of stuffs, and filled with them the other chests, which theylocked, and conveyed, together with the chest in which I was enclosed,to the boat, accompanied by the damsel. and having embarked them, theyplied the oars, and proceeded to the palace of the honoured ladyZubeydeh. The intoxication of love now ceased in me, and reflection camein its place: I repented of what I had done, and prayed God to deliverme from my dangerous predicament.Meanwhile, they arrived at the gate of the Khaleefeh, where they landed,and took out all the chests, and conveyed them into the palace: but thechief of the door keepers, who had been asleep when they arrived, wasawoke by the sounds of their voices, and cried out to the damsel,saying, The chests must be opened, that I may see what is in them: andhe arose, and placed his hand upon the chest in which I was hidden. Myreason abandoned me, my heart almost burst from my body, and my limbstrembled. but the damsel said, These are the chests of the ladyZubeydeh, and if thou open them and turn them over, she will be incensedagainst thee, and we shall all perish. They contain nothing but clothesdyed of various colours, except this chest upon which thou hast put thyhand, in which there are also some bottles filled with the water ofZemzem, and if any of the water run out upon the clothes itwill spoil their colours. Now I have advised thee, and it is for thee todecide: so do what thou wilt. When he heard, therefore, these words, hesaid to her, Take the chests, and pass on: and the eunuchs immediatelytook them up, and, with the damsel, conveyed them into the palace: butin an instant, I heard a person crying out, and saying, The Khaleefeh!The Khaleefeh!I was bereft of my reason, and seized with a colick from excessive fear.I almost died, and my limbs were affected with a violent shaking. TheKhaleefeh cried out to the damsel, saying to her, What are these chests?She answered, O my lord (may God exalt thy dominion!), these chestscontain clothes of my mistress Zubeydeh. Open them, said theKhaleefeh, that I may see the clothes. When I heard this, I felt sureof my destruction. The damsel could not disobey his command. but shereplied, O Prince of the Faithful, there is nothing in these chests butclothes of the lady Zubeydeh, and she hath commanded me not to open themto any one. The Khaleefeh, however, said, The chests must be opened, allof them, that I may see their contents: and immediately he called outto the eunuchs to bring them before him. I therefore felt certain that Iwas on the point of destruction. They then brought before him chestafter chest, and opened each to him, and he examined the contents. andwhen they brought forward the chest in which I was enclosed, I badeadieu to life, and prepared myself for death. but as the eunuchs wereabout to open it, the damsel said, O Prince of the Faithful, verily thischest containeth things especially appertaining to women. and it isproper, therefore, that it should be opened before the ladyZubeydeh: and when the Khaleefeh heard her words, he ordered theeunuchs to convey all the chests into the interior of the palace. Thedamsel then hastened, and ordered two eunuchs to carry away the chest inwhich I was hidden, and they took it to an inner chamber, and went theirway: whereupon she quickly opened it, and made a sign to me to come out:so I did as she desired, and entered a closet that was before me, andshe locked the door upon me, and closed the chest: and when the eunuchshad brought in all the chests, and had gone back, she opened the door ofthe closet, and said, Thou hast nothing to fear! May God refresh thineeye! Come forth now, and go up with me, that thou mayest have thehappiness of kissing the ground before the lady Zubeydeh.I therefore went with her, and beheld twenty other female slaves,high bosomed virgins, and among them was the lady Zubeydeh, who wasscarcely able to walk from the weight of the robes and ornaments withwhich she was decked. As she approached, the female slaves dispersedfrom around her, and I advanced to her, and kissed the ground beforeher. She made a sign to me to sit down: so I seated myself before her.and she began to ask me questions respecting my condition and lineage.to all of which I gave such answers that she was pleased, and said, ByAllah, the care which we have bestowed on the education of this damselhath not been in vain. She then said to me, Know that this damsel isesteemed by us as though she were really our child, and she is a trustcommitted to thy care by God. Upon this, therefore, I again kissed theground before her, well pleased to marry the damsel. after which, shecommanded me to remain with them ten days. Accordingly, I continued withthem during this period. but I knew nothing meanwhile of the damsel.certain of the maids only bringing me my dinner and supper, as myservants. After this, however, the lady Zubeydeh asked permission of herhusband, the Prince of the Faithful, to marry her maid, and he grantedher request, and ordered that ten thousand pieces of gold should begiven to her.The lady Zubeydeh, therefore, sent for the aee and witnesses, andthey wrote my contract of marriage to the damsel. and the maids thenprepared sweetmeats and exquisite dishes, and distributed them in allthe apartments. Thus they continued to do for a period of ten more days.and after the twenty days had passed, they conducted the damsel into thebath, preparatively to my being introduced to her as her husband. Theythen brought to me a repast comprising a basin of zirbajeh sweetenedwith sugar, perfumed with rose water infused with musk, and containingdifferent kinds of fricandoed fowls and a variety of other ingredients,such as astonished the mind. and, by Allah, when this repast wasbrought, I instantly commenced upon the zirbajeh, and ate of it as muchas satisfied me, and wiped my hand, but forgot to wash it. I remainedsitting until it became dark. when the maids lighted the candles, andthe singing girls approached with the tambourines, and they continued todisplay the bride, and to give presents of gold, until she hadperambulated the whole of the palace. after which, they brought her tome, and disrobed her. and as soon as I was left alone with her, I threwmy arms around her neck, scarcely believing in our union: but as I didso, she perceived the smell of the zirbajeh from my hand, andimmediately uttered a loud cry: whereupon the female slaves ran in toher from every quarter.I was violently agitated, not knowing what was the matter. and theslaves who had come in said to her, What hath happened to thee, O oursister? Take away from me, she exclaimed to them, this madman, whom Iimagined to be a man of sense! What indication of my insanity hathappeared to thee? I asked. Thou madman, said she, wherefore hast thoueaten of the zirbajeh, and not washed thy hand? By Allah, I will notaccept thee for thy want of sense, and thy disgusting conduct! And sosaying, she took from her side a whip, and beat me with itupon my back until I became insensible from the number of the stripes.She then said to the other maids, Take him to the magistrate of the citypolice, that he may cut off his hand with which he ate the zirbajehwithout washing it afterwards. On hearing this, I exclaimed, There is nostrength nor power but in God! Wilt thou cut off my hand on account ofmy eating a zirbajeh and neglecting to wash it? And the maids who werepresent entreated her, saying to her, O our sister, be not angry withhim for what he hath done this time. But she replied, By Allah, I mustcut off something from his extremities! And immediately she departed,and was absent from me ten days: after which, she came again, and saidto me, O thou black faced! Am I not worthy of thee? How didst thou dareto eat the zirbajeh and not wash thy hand? And she called to the maids,who bound my hands behind me, and she took a sharp razor, and cut offboth my thumbs and both my great toes, as ye see, O companions. and Iswooned away. She then sprinkled upon my wounds some powder, by means ofwhich the blood was stanched. and I said, I will not eat of a zirbajehas long as I live unless I wash my hands forty times with kali and fortytimes with cyperus and forty times with soap: and she exacted of me anoath that I would not eat of this dish unless I washed my hands as Ihave described to you. Therefore, when this zirbajeh was brought, mycolour changed, and I said within myself, This was the cause of thecutting off of my thumbs and great toes: so, when ye compelled me, Isaid, I must fulfil the oath which I have sworn.I then said to him (continued the Sulan's steward), And what happenedto thee after that? He answered, When I had thus sworn to her, she wasappeased, and I was admitted into her favour. and we lived happilytogether for a considerable time: after which she said, The people ofthe Khaleefeh's palace know not that thou hast resided here with me,and no strange man beside thee hath entered it. nor didst thou enter butthrough the assistance of the lady Zubeydeh. She then gave me fiftythousand pieces of gold, and said to me, Take these pieces of gold, andgo forth and buy for us a spacious house. So I went forth, and purchaseda handsome and spacious house, and removed thither all the riches thatshe possessed, and all that she had treasured up, and her dresses andrarities. This was the cause of the amputation of my thumbs and greattoes. So we ate (said the Sulan's steward), and departed. and afterthis, the accident with the humpback happened to me: this is all mystory. and peace be on thee.The King said, This is not more pleasant than the story of the humpback:nay, the story of the humpback is more pleasant than this. and ye mustall of you be crucified. The Jew, however, then came forward, and,having kissed the ground, said, O King of the age, I will relate to theea story more wonderful than that of the humpback: and the King said,Relate thy story. So he commenced thus: 