Some years back, the blacksmith of Yarrowfoot had for apprentices twobrothers, both steady lads, and, when bound to him, fine healthy fellows.After a few months, however, the younger of the two began to grow paleand lean, lose his appetite, and show other marks of declining health. Hisbrother, much concerned, often questioned him as to what ailed him, but tono purpose.At last, however, the poor lad burst into an agony of tears, andconfessed that he was quite worn out, and should soon be brought to thegrave through the ill usage of his mistress, who was in truth a witch,though none suspected it. "Every night," he sobbed out, "she comes to mybedside, puts a magic bridle on me, and changes me into a horse. Then,seated on my back, she urges me on for many a mile to the wild moors,where she and I know not what other vile creatures hold their hideousfeasts. There she keeps me all night, and at early morning I carry herhome. She takes off my bridle, and there I am, but so weary I can illstand. And thus I pass my nights while you are soundly sleeping."The elder brother at once declared he would take his chance of a nightamong the witches, so he put the younger one in his own place next to thewall, and lay awake himself till the usual time of the witch woman'sarrival. She came, bridle in hand, and flinging it over the elderbrother's head, up sprang a fine hunting horse. The lady leaped on hisback, and started for the trysting place, which on this occasion, as itchanced, was the cellar of a neighboring laird.While she and the rest of the vile crew were regaling themselves withclaret and sack, the hunter, who was left in a spare stall of the stable,rubbed and rubbed his head against the wall till he loosened the bridle,and finally got it off, on which he recovered his human form. Holding thebridle firmly in his hand, he concealed himself at the back of the stalltill his mistress came within reach, when in an instant he flung the magicbridle over her head, and, behold, a fine gray mare!He mounted her and dashed off, riding through hedge and ditch, till,looking down, he perceived she had lost a shoe from one of her forefeet.He took her to the first smithy that was open, had the shoe replaced, anda new one put on the other forefoot, and then rode her up and down aplowed field till she was nearly worn out. At last he took her home, andpulled the bridle off just in time for her to creep into bed before herhusband awoke, and got up for his day's work.The honest blacksmith arose, little thinking what had been going on allnight. but his wife complained of being very ill, almost dying, and beggedhim to send for a doctor. He accordingly aroused his apprentices. theelder one went out, and soon returned with one whom he had chanced to meetalready abroad.The doctor wished to feel his patient's pulse, but she resolutely hidher hands, and refused to show them. The village Esculapius was perplexed.but the husband, impatient at her obstinacy, pulled off the bedclothes,and found, to his horror, that horseshoes were tightly nailed to bothhands! On further examination, her sides appeared galled with kicks, thesame that the apprentice had given her during his ride up and down theplowed field.The brothers now came forward, and related all that had passed. On thefollowing day the witch was tried by the magistrates of Selkirk, andcondemned to be burned to death on a stone at the Bullsheugh, a sentencewhich was promptly carried into effect. It is added that the youngerapprentice was at last restored to health by eating butter made from themilk of cows fed in kirkyards, a sovereign remedy for consumption broughton through being witch ridden.