There was a band of robbers who had their hideaway dug into a large mountain. Their captain had a son who was born there, but when he was grown, he did not want to stay with them, because he did not like their dealings, so his father allowed him to leave and seek work as an honest man.On saying farewell, his father gave him a wallet and a golden box, things to remind him of his home.Some time later he found work with a squire to look after the sheep. On the squire's farm was a mound where the sheep were not allowed to graze for fear that a wild troll might capture them. On his first morning the new shepherd drove the sheep to the mound, then sat down to eat his lunch. The troll suddenly appeared and asked for some of his lunch, and the shepherd gave him half.Then the troll said, "Because you have shared your lunch with me, all will go well with your sheep."Thus every day the lad went to the mound and shared his lunch with the troll, and in return the troll showed him the best places to graze the sheep.One day the troll said to the lad, "If you will continue to serve here until you are eighteen, I'll help you."The boy agreed to this and served four more years (he was fourteen when he started there).When the time came for him to leave, the troll said, "You should now go to the king's castle and take service there as a swineherd. I'll give you this flute, and whenever you blow into it the pigs will dance ever so nicely.The lad thanked him and went on his way.The king had nine pigs, and the lad took them into the woods. On returning to the castle with them he blew into the flute, and the pigs jumped about and danced ever so beautifully.Now the princess saw the dancing pigs from her bedroom window, and she wanted to have one of them. The next day she secretly went into the woods and asked the swineherd if his pigs could indeed dance."Yes," he replied. "Do you want to see them dance?"He blew into the flute, and the pigs danced."Will you sell me one of the pigs?""I can do that," he said."How much will it cost? But it must be a pig that can dance."In payment he asked only to see her garters.This displeased the princess, but the swineherd would accept nothing else, so in the end she lifted up her skirts, and he gave her one of the pigs.Back at the castle she sent for her musicians, but for all their skill they could not make the pig dance. All the pig would do was to squeal and scream. So the next day she returned to the woods and complained to the swineherd."Your pig must have been too lonely to dance," explained the swineherd. "You should buy another pig.""Yes, but what will I have to pay for this one?"She would have to show him her breasts. So she undid her bodice and let him look, and he saw that she had two silver hairs below her left armpit and one golden hair below her right armpit.Thus she got the second pig, but upon returning to the castle it too would not dance. So the next day she went once again into the woods to complain to the swineherd."I can give you a dancing pig," he promised, "but first you must show me your bare arms."By now she was used to such requests, so she rolled up her sleeves. He saw that on her left arm was a blood red spot as large as a ducat. It was a birthmark that she had been born with.So she got the third pig and returned home with it, but it too refused to dance, however much her musicians played and drummed.That evening when the lad returned to the castle with his six pigs the king noticed that three were missing, and because the swineherd could not explain how they had disappeared, the king dismissed him forthwith.Now in those same days the king issued a proclamation throughout the realm that whoever might guess the princess's birthmarks could have her in marriage.Many suitors arrived on the appointed day. The king saw them one by one, but none guessed right. All the while the swineherd was hiding behind a door where he could hear everything.One of the suitors was a good looking student, and he pumped the swineherd for an answer to the riddle."I guess she has two silver hairs beneath right armpit and a gold hair beneath her left armpit," replied the swineherd, so when the student presented himself, this is the answer that he gave."Not true!" shouted the swineherd. "She has a gold hair beneath her right armpit and two silver hairs beneath her left armpit.""Hold your tongue, boy!" said the king, who liked the good looking student. "Just what are you saying?""What I say is true!" said the swineherd, and it turned out that he was right.The king then asked the student, "Can you tell me on which arm the princess has a birthmark?""Her right arm.""Not true!" shouted the swineherd. On her left arm is a red mark the size of a ducat.Her arm was examined, and everyone in the hall said, "The boy is right."Nonetheless, the king refused to accept the swineherd, and instead he set an additional task. That night each suitor would go to bed on either side of the princess, the one she was facing the next morning would be the winner.Before bedtime the king gave a feast for the judges and some of the suitors. The student thought himself in seventh heaven, for he was sure that he would win the princess, and thus he drank until he was quite drunk. But the swineherd was not so foolish. Finally the three went to bed, and the bedroom door was locked behind them. The princess turned to face the student, for she favored him.Now before bedtime the swineherd had purchased a bag of prunes and raisins, and as he lay there he munched on them.In the night the student became ill from his overeating and overdrinking. Needing to vomit, he tried to go outside, but the door was locked, so he had to puke in the corner. When he returned to bed the princess smelled his breath, and it was so foul that she turned toward the swineherd, whose breath smelled much better. They all slept until daybreak, and when the king looked in on them she was facing the swineherd.Thus the case was settled. Nothing more could be said against the swineherd."Now that you have won the contest," said the king, "tell us about your possessions."The boy told him of the wallet and the golden box. These were his entire inheritance, and he had not opened them since leaving home. The king wanted to see them, and opening the wallet he saw photographs of the lad's father and mother, and he recognized the father as his own twin brother. When their father had died they had battled each other over the kingdom. The loser had escaped into the woods and had become the leader of a band of robbers. Then they opened the golden box, and it contained a rich inheritance. The wallet was given to the king, for he had often thought about his brother and longed for him. Now he knew that he was still alive.Of course the lad should marry the princess, and their wedding was soon celebrated. He received half the kingdom at once, along with a dowry, and when the king died he received the second half as well.