Once in the fall time a hedgehog and a fox ran into one another, and the fox said to the hedgehog, "Come with me to the vineyard to steal some grapes."The hedgehog answered, "No, I am afraid of the traps that they have set out there."The fox said, "Have no fear. You'll come to no harm, because I have three bags full of tricks."So they went there together and ate until they were full, but just as they were leaving, the fox caught herself in an iron trap. She called out, "Help me, Hedgehog! I'm caught in a trap."He said, "Empty the tricks out of your bag, so I can free you."The fox said, "I jumped over a ditch, and all my tricks fell out. Don't you know even one?"The hedgehog replied, "I know two of them. The one is that when the farmer comes, just play dead. the other is that while you are playing dead you should let a mighty fart."The fox did what the hedgehog had advised, and when the farmer came by, he thought that the fox was already stinky rotten and threw her out of the vineyard. Thus she escaped.Another time the fox again asked the hedgehog to go with her the vineyard and eat grapes. Because everything had worked out so well the first time, he went with her this time as well. After they had eaten until they were full and were about to leave, the hedgehog caught himself in a trap.He called out, "Help me, Mistress Fox, I'm caught in a trap. Empty out your tricks and free me from the trap."The fox replied, "I jumped over a ditch again, and all my tricks fell out."The hedgehog said, "Since I am about to die, forgive me of my sins."The fox said, "If you will forgive me all of my sins against you, then I will ask God to forgive you of all your sins."Then the hedgehog asked, "Come closer and we'll hug one another, because we have lived together for such a long time."The fox went to him, and they hugged one another. Then the hedgehog said, "You should also kiss me on the mouth."The fox did so, but the hedgehog grabbed hold of her tongue with his teeth and held her there until the farmer came by. When the farmer saw how the hedgehog had caught the fox he laughed, then he killed the fox and let the hedgehog run away.