There was once upon a time a fisherman and his wife who lived togetherin a piss pot near the sea. Every day the fisherman went out fishing, andhe fished a long time. Once he was sitting there fishing and looking intothe clear water when his hook went to the bottom, deep down, and when hepulled it out, he had caught a large flounder. Then the flounder said tohim, "I beg you to let me live. I am not an ordinary flounder, but anenchanted prince. Put me back into the water, and let me swim.""Well," said the man, "there's no need to say more. I can certainly leta fish swim away who knows how to talk." Then he put it back into thewater, and the flounder quickly disappeared to the bottom, leaving a longtrail of blood behind him.The man then went home to his wife in the piss pot and told her that hehad caught a flounder that had told him he was an enchanted prince, andthat he had let it swim away. "Didn't you ask for anything first?" saidthe woman. "No," said the man. What should I have asked for?""Oh," said the woman. "It is terrible living in this piss pot. It isfilled with stench and filth. Go back and ask for a little hut forus."The man did not want to, but he went back to the sea, and when hearrived it was all yellow and green, and he stood next to the water andsaid:Mandje! Mandje! Timpe Te!Flounder, flounder, in the sea!My wife, my wife Ilsebill,Wants not, wants not, what I willThe flounder swam up and said, "What does she want then?""Oh," said the man, "I did catch you, and my wife says that I reallyshould have asked for something. She doesn't want to live in a piss potany longer. She would like to have a hut.""Go home," said the flounder. "She already has it."The man went home, and his wife was standing in the door of a hut, andshe said to him, "Come in. See, now isn't this much better." And there wasa parlor and a bedroom and a kitchen. and outside there was a littlegarden with all kinds of vegetables, and a yard with hens and ducks."Oh," said the man. "Now we can live well.""Yes," said the woman, "we'll give it a try."Everything went well for a week or two, and then the woman said,"Husband. This hut is too small. The yard and the garden are too little. Iwant to live in a large stone castle. Go back to the flounder and tell himto get a castle for us.""Oh, wife," said the man. The flounder has just given us the hut. Idon't want to go back so soon. It may make the flounder angry.""I know he can do it," said the woman, "and he won't mind. Justgo!"So, with a heavy heart, the man went back, and when he came to the sea,the water was quite purple and gray and dark blue, but it was still, andhe stood there and said:Mandje! Mandje! Timpe Te!Flounder, flounder, in the sea!My wife, my wife Ilsebill,Wants not, wants not, what I will."What does she want then?" said the flounder."Oh," said the man sadly, "my wife wants to live in a stonecastle.""Go home. She's already standing before the door," said theflounder.So the man went home, and his wife was standing in front of a largepalace."See, husband," she said. "Isn't this beautiful?" And with that theywent inside together. There were many servants inside, and the walls wereall white, and there were golden chairs and tables in the parlor, andoutside the castle there was a garden and a forest a half mile long, andthere were elk and deer and rabbits, and there were cow and horse stallsin the yard."Oh," said the man, "now we can stay in this beautiful castle and besatisfied.""We'll think about it," said the woman. "Let's sleep on it." And withthat they went to bed.The next morning the woman awoke. It was daylight. She poked herhusband in the side with her elbow and said, "Husband, get up. We shouldbe king over all this land.""Oh, wife," said the man, "why do you want to be king? I don't want tobe king.""Well, I want to be king.""Oh, wife," said the man, "how can you be king? The flounder won't wantto do that.""Husband," said the woman, "Go there immediately. I want to beking."So the man, saddened because his wife wanted to be king, went back. Andwhen he arrived at the sea it was dark gray, and the water heaved up frombelow. He stood there and said:Mandje! Mandje! Timpe Te!Flounder, flounder, in the sea!My wife, my wife Ilsebill,Wants not, wants not, what I will."What does she want then," said the flounder."Oh," said the man, "my wife wants to be king.""Go home. She's already king," said the flounder.Then the man went home, and when he arrived at the palace, there wereso many soldiers, and drums, and trumpets, and his wife was sitting on ahigh throne of gold and diamonds, and she was wearing a large golden crownand on either side of her there stood a line of maidens in waiting, eachone a head shorter than the other."Oh," said the man, "are you king now?""Yes," she said, "I am king."And after he had looked at her awhile, he said, "It is nice that youare king. Now we don't have to wish for anything else.""No, husband," she said, "I have been king too long. I can't stand itany longer. I am king, but now I would like to become emperor.""Oh," said the man, "why do you want to become emperor?""Husband," she said, "go to the flounder. I want to be emperor.""Oh, wife," said the man, "he can't make you emperor. I can't tell himto do that.""I am king," said the woman, "and you are my husband. Now go thereimmediately!"So the man went, and on his way he thought, "This is not going to endwell. To ask to be emperor is shameful. The flounder is going to get tiredof this." With that he arrived at the sea. The water was entirely blackand dense, and a strong wind blew over him that curdled the water. Hestood there and said:Mandje! Mandje! Timpe Te!Flounder, flounder, in the sea!My wife, my wife Ilsebill,Wants not, wants not, what I will."What does she want then," said the flounder."Oh," he said, "my wife wants to become emperor.""Go home," said the flounder. "She's already emperor."Then the man went home, and when he arrived, his wife was sitting on avery high throne made of one piece of gold, and she was wearing a largegolden crown that was two yards high, and guards were standing at herside, each one smaller than the other, beginning with the largest giantand ending with the littlest dwarf, who was no larger than my littlefinger. Many princes and counts were standing in front of her. The manwent and stood among them and said, "Wife, are you emperor now?""Yes," she said, "I am emperor.""Oh," said the man, taking a good look at her. "Wife, it's good thatyou are emperor.""Husband," she said. "Why are you standing there? I'm emperor now, andI want to become pope as well.""Oh, wife!" said the man. "Why do you want to become pope. There isonly one pope in all Christendom.""Husband," she said, "I want to become pope before the day isdone.""No, wife," he said, "the flounder cannot make you pope. It's notgood.""Husband, what nonsense! If he can make me emperor, then he can make mepope as well. Now go there immediately!"Then the man went, and he felt sick all over, and his knees and legswere shaking, and the wind was blowing, and the water looked like it wasboiling, and ships, tossing and turning on the waves, were firing theirguns in distress. There was a little blue in the middle of the sky, but onall sides it had turned red, as in a terrible lightning storm. Full ofdespair he stood there and said:Mandje! Mandje! Timpe Te!Flounder, flounder, in the sea!My wife, my wife Ilsebill,Wants not, wants not, what I will."What does she want then?" said the flounder."Oh," said the man, "my wife wants to become pope.""Go home," said the flounder. "She's already pope."Then he went home, and when he arrived there, his wife was sitting on athrone that was two miles high, and she was wearing three large crowns.She was surrounded with church like splendor, and at her sides there weretwo banks of candles. The largest was as thick and as tall as the largesttower, down to the smallest kitchen candle. "Wife," said the man, givingher a good look, "are you pope now?""Yes," she said, "I am pope.""Oh," said the man. "It is good that you are pope. Wife, we can besatisfied, now that you are pope. There's nothing else that you canbecome.""I have to think about that," said the woman. Then they both went tobed, but she was not satisfied. Her desires would not let her sleep. Shekept thinking what she wanted to become next. Then the sun came up. "Aha,"she thought, as she watched the sunrise through her window. "Couldn't Icause the sun to rise?" Then she became very grim and said to her husband,"Husband, go back to the flounder. I want to become like God."The man, who was still mostly asleep, was so startled that he fell outof bed. "Oh, wife," he said, "go on as you are and remain pope.""No," said the woman, tearing open her bodice. "I will not be quiet. Ican't stand it when I see the sun and the moon coming up, and I can'tcause them to rise. I want to become like God!""Oh, wife," said the man. "The flounder can't do that. He can make youemperor and pope, but he can't do that.""Husband," she said, looking very gruesome, "I want to become like God.Go to the flounder right now!"The man trembled with fear at every joint. Outside there was a terriblestorm. Trees and mountains were shaking. The heaven was completely black,and there was thunder and lightning. In the sea he could see black wavesas high as mountains, and they were capped with white crowns of foam. Hesaid:Mandje! Mandje! Timpe Te!Flounder, flounder, in the sea!My wife, my wife Ilsebill,Wants not, wants not, what I will."What does she want then," said the flounder."Oh," he said, "she wants to become like God.""Go home. She is sitting in her piss pot again."And they are sitting there even today.