There was once, I don't know where, a man who had three daughters. One daythe father thus spoke to the eldest girl, "Go, my daughter, and fetch me,some fresh water from the well."The girl went, but when she came to the well a huge frog called out to herfrom the bottom, that he would not allow her to draw water in her juguntil she threw him down the gold ring on her finger."Nothing else? Is that all you want?" replied the girl. "I won't give awaymy rings to such an ugly creature as you." And she returned as she camewith the empty pitchers.So the father sent the second girl, and she fared as the first. the frogwould not let her have any water, as she refused to throw down her goldring. Her father gave his two elder daughters a good scolding, and thenthus addressed the youngest, "You go, Betsie, my dear, you have alwaysbeen a clever girl. I'm sure you will be able to get some water, and willnot allow your father to suffer thirst. So, shame your sisters!"Betsie picked up the pitchers and went, but the frog again refused thewater unless she threw her ring down. but she, as she was very fond of herfather, threw the ring in as demanded, and returned home with fullpitchers to her father's great delight.In the evening, as soon as darkness set in, the frog crawled out of thewell, and thus commenced to shout in front of Betsie's father's door,"Father in law! Father in law! I should like something to eat."The man got angry, and called out to his daughters. "Give something in abroken plate to that ugly frog to gnaw.""Father in law! Father in law! This won't do for me. I want some roastmeat on a tin plate," retorted the frog."Give him something on a tin plate then, or else he will cast a spell onus," said the father.The frog began to eat heartily, and, having had enough, again commenced tocroak: "Father in law! Father  in law! I want something to drink.""Give him some slops in a broken pot," said the father."Father in law! Father in law! I won't have this. I want some wine in anice tumbler.""Give him some wine then," angrily called out the father.He guzzled up his wine and began again, "Father in law! Father in law! Iwould like to go to sleep.""Throw him some rags in a corner," was the reply."Father in law! Father in law! I won't have that. I want a silk bed,"croaked the frog. This was also given to him. but no sooner has he gone tobed than again he began to croak, "Father in law! Father in law! I want agirl, indeed.""Go, my daughter, and lie by the side of him," said the father to theeldest."Father in law! Father in law! I don't want that, I want another."The father sent the second girl, but the frog again croaked:"Father in law! Father in law! I don't want that, Betsie is the girl Iwant.""Go, my Betsie," said the father, quite disheartened, "else thisconfounded monster will cast a spell on us."So Betsie went to bed with the frog, but her father thoughtfully left alamp burning on the top of the oven. noticing which, the frog crawled outof bed and blew the lamp out. The father lighted it again, but the frogput it out as before, and so it happened a third time. The father saw thatthe frog would not yield, and was therefore obliged to leave his dearlittle Betsie in the dark by the side of the ugly frog, and felt greatanxiety about her.In the morning, when the father and the two elder girls got up, theyopened their eyes and mouths wide in astonishment, because the frog haddisappeared, and by the side of Betsie they found a handsome Magyar lad,with auburn locks, in a beautiful costume, with gold braid and buttons andgold spurs on his boots. The handsome lad asked for Betsie's hand, and,having received the father's consent, they hastened to celebrate thewedding, so that christening might not follow the wedding too soon.The two elder sisters looked with invidious eyes on Betsie, as they alsowere very much smitten with the handsome lad. Betsie was very happy after,so happy that if anyone doubt it he can satisfy himself with his own eyes.If she is still alive, let him go and look for her, and try to find her inthis big world.