An old couple once lived in a hut under a grove of palm trees, and theyhad one son and one daughter. They were all very happy together for manyyears, and then the father became very ill, and felt he was going todie. He called his children to the place where he lay on the floor forno one had any beds in that country and said to his son, 'I haveno herds of cattle to leave you only the few things there are in thehouse for I am a poor man, as you know. But choose: will you have myblessing or my property?''Your property, certainly,' answered the son, and his father nodded.'And you?' asked the old man of the girl, who stood by her brother.'I will have blessing,' she answered, and her father gave her muchblessing.That night he died, and his wife and son and daughter mourned for himseven days, and gave him a burial according to the custom of his people.But hardly was the time of mourning over, than the mother was attackedby a disease which was common in that country.'I am going away from you,' she said to her children, in a faint voice.'but first, my son, choose which you will have: blessing or property.''Property, certainly,' answered the son.'And you, my daughter?''I will have blessing,' said the girl. and her mother gave her muchblessing, and that night she died.When the days of mourning were ended, the brother bade his sister putoutside the hut all that belonged to his father and his mother. So thegirl put them out, and he took them away, save only a small pot and avessel in which she could clean her corn. But she had no corn to clean.She sat at home, sad and hungry, when a neighbour knocked at the door.'My pot has cracked in the fire, lend me yours to cook my supper in, andI will give you a handful of corn in return.'And the girl was glad, and that night she was able to have supperherself, and next day another woman borrowed her pot, and then anotherand another, for never were known so many accidents as befell thevillage pots at that time. She soon grew quite fat with all the corn sheearned with the help of her pot, and then one evening she picked up apumpkin seed in a corner, and planted it near her well, and it sprangup, and gave her many pumpkins.At last it happened that a youth from her village passed through theplace where the girl's brother was, and the two met and talked.'What news is there of my sister?' asked the young man, with whom thingshad gone badly, for he was idle.'She is fat and well liking,' replied the youth, 'for the women borrowher mortar to clean their corn, and borrow her pot to cook it in, andfor al this they give her more food than she can eat.' And he went hisway.Now the brother was filled with envy at the words of the man, and he setout at once, and before dawn he had reached the hut, and saw the pot andthe mortar were standing outside. He slung them over his shoulders anddeparted, pleased with his own cleverness. but when his sister awokeand sought for the pot to cook her corn for breakfast, she could find itnowhere. At length she said to herself,'Well, some thief must have stolen them while I slept. I will go and seeif any of my pumpkins are ripe.' And indeed they were, and so many thatthe tree was almost broken by the weight of them. So she ate what shewanted and took the others to the village, and gave them in exchange forcorn, and the women said that no pumpkins were as sweet as these, andthat she was to bring every day all that she had. In this way she earnedmore than she needed for herself, and soon was able to get anothermortar and cooking pot in exchange for her corn. Then she thought shewas quite rich.Unluckily someone else thought so too, and this was her brother's wife,who had heard all about the pumpkin tree, and sent her slave with ahandful of grain to buy her a pumpkin. At first the girl told him thatso few were left that she could not spare any. but when she found thathe belonged to her brother, she changed her mind, and went out to thetree and gathered the largest and the ripest that was there.'Take this one,' she said to the slave, 'and carry it back to yourmistress, but tell her to keep the corn, as the pumpkin is a gift.'The brother's wife was overjoyed at the sight of the fruit, and when shetasted it, she declared it was the nicest she had ever eaten. Indeed,all night she thought of nothing else, and early in the morning shecalled another slave (for she was a rich woman) and bade him go and askfor another pumpkin. But the girl, who had just been out to look at hertree, told him that they were all eaten, so he went back empty handed tohis mistress.In the evening her husband returned from hunting a long way off, andfound his wife in tears.'What is the matter?' asked he.'I sent a slave with some grain to your sister to buy some pumpkins, butshe would not sell me any, and told me there were none, though I knowshe lets other people buy them.''Well, never mind now go to sleep,' said he, 'and to morrow I will goand pull up the pumpkin tree, and that will punish her for treating youso badly.'So before sunrise he got up and set out for his sister's house, andfound her cleaning some corn.'Why did you refuse to sell my wife a pumpkin yesterday when she wantedone?' he asked.'The old ones are finished, and the new ones are not yet come,' answeredthe girl. 'When her slave arrived two days ago, there were only fourleft. but I gave him one, and would take no corn for it.''I do not believe you. you have sold them all to other people. I shallgo and cut down the pumpkin,' cried her brother in a rage.'If you cut down the pumpkin you shall cut off my hand with it,'exclaimed the girl, running up to her tree and catching hold of it. Buther brother followed, and with one blow cut off the pumpkin and her handtoo.Then he went into the house and took away everything he could find, andsold the house to a friend of his who had long wished to have it, andhis sister had no home to go to.Meanwhile she had bathed her arm carefully, and bound on it some healingleaves that grew near by, and wrapped a cloth round the leaves, and wentto hide in the forest, that her brother might not find her again.For seven days she wandered about, eating only the fruit that hung fromthe trees above her, and every night she climbed up and tucked herselfsafely among the creepers which bound together the big branches, so thatneither lions nor tigers nor panthers might get at her.When she woke up on the seventh morning she saw from her perch smokecoming up from a little town on the edge of the forest. The sight ofthe huts made her feel more lonely and helpless than before. She longeddesperately for a draught of milk from a gourd, for there were nostreams in that part, and she was very thirsty, but how was she to earnanything with only one hand? And at this thought her courage failed, andshe began to cry bitterly.It happened that the king's son had come out from the town very early toshoot birds, and when the sun grew hot he left tired.'I will lie here and rest under this tree,' he said to his attendants.'You can go and shoot instead, and I will just have this slave to staywith me!' Away they went, and the young man fell asleep, and slept long.Suddenly he was awakened by something wet and salt falling on his face.'What is that? Is it raining?' he said to his slave. 'Go and look.''No, master, it is not raining,' answered the slave.'Then climb up the tree and see what it is,' and the slave climbed up,and came back and told his master that a beautiful girl was sitting upthere, and that it must have been her tears which had fallen on the faceof the king's son.'Why was she crying?' inquired the prince.'I cannot tell I did not dare to ask her. but perhaps she would tellyou.' And the master, greatly wondering, climbed up the tree.'What is the matter with you?' said he gently, and, as she only sobbedlouder, he continued:'Are you a woman, or a spirit of the woods?''I am a woman,' she answered slowly, wiping her eyes with a leaf of thecreeper that hung about her.'Then why do you cry?' he persisted.'I have many things to cry for,' she replied, 'more than you could everguess.''Come home with me,' said the prince. 'it is not very far. Come home tomy father and mother. I am a king's son.''Then why are you here?' she said, opening her eyes and staring at him.'Once every month I and my friends shoot birds in the forest,' heanswered, 'but I was tired and bade them leave me to rest. And you whatare you doing up in this tree?'At that she began to cry again, and told the king's son all that hadbefallen her since the death of her mother.'I cannot come down with you, for I do not like anyone to see me,' sheended with a sob.'Oh! I will manage all that,' said the king's son, and swinging himselfto a lower branch, he bade his slave go quickly into the town, and bringback with him four strong men and a curtained litter. When the manwas gone, the girl climbed down, and hid herself on the ground in somebushes. Very soon the slave returned with the litter, which was placedon the ground close to the bushes where the girl lay.'Now go, all of you, and call my attendants, for I do not wish to sayhere any longer,' he said to the men, and as soon as they were out ofsight he bade the girl get into the litter, and fasten the curtainstightly. Then he got in on the other side, and waited till hisattendants came up.'What is the matter, O son of a king?' asked they, breathless withrunning.'I think I am ill. I am cold,' he said, and signing to the bearers, hedrew the curtains, and was carried through the forest right inside hisown house.'Tell my father and mother that I have a fever, and want some gruel,'said he, 'and bid them send it quickly.'So the slave hastened to the king's palace and gave his message, whichtroubled both the king and the queen greatly. A pot of hot gruel wasinstantly prepared, and carried over to the sick man, and as soon as thecouncil which was sitting was over, the king and his ministers went topay him a visit, bearing a message from the queen that she would followa little later.Now the prince had pretended to be ill in order to soften his parent'shearts, and the next day he declared he felt better, and, getting intohis litter, was carried to the palace in state, drums being beaten allalong the road.He dismounted at the foot of the steps and walked up, a great parasolbeing held over his head by a slave. Then he entered the cool, dark roomwhere his father and mother were sitting, and said to them:'I saw a girl yesterday in the forest whom I wish to marry, and, unknownto my attendants, I brought her back to my house in a litter. Give meyour consent, I beg, for no other woman pleases me as well, even thoughshe has but one hand!'Of course the king and queen would have preferred a daughter in lawwith two hands, and one who could have brought riches with her, but theycould not bear to say 'No' to their son, so they told him it should beas he chose, and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately.The girl could scarcely believe her good fortune, and, in gratitude forall the kindness shown her, was so useful and pleasant to her husband'sparents that they soon loved her.By and bye a baby was born to her, and soon after that the prince wassent on a journey by his father to visit some of the distant towns ofthe kingdom, and to set right things that had gone wrong.No sooner had he started than the girl's brother, who had wasted all theriches his wife had brought him in recklessness and folly, and was nowvery poor, chanced to come into the town, and as he passed he heard aman say, 'Do you know that the king's son has married a woman who haslost one of her hands?' On hearing these words the brother stopped andasked, 'Where did he find such a woman?''In the forest,' answered the man, and the cruel brother guessed at onceit must be his sister.A great rage took possession of his soul as he thought of the girl whomhe had tried to ruin being after all so much better off than himself,and he vowed that he would work her ill. Therefore that very afternoonhe made his way to the palace and asked to see the king.When he was admitted to his presence, he knelt down and touched theground with his forehead, and the king bade him stand up and tellwherefore he had come.'By the kindness of your heart have you been deceived, O king,' said he.'Your son has married a girl who has lost a hand. Do you know why shehad lost it? She was a witch, and has wedded three husbands, and eachhusband she has put to death with her arts. Then the people of the towncut off her hand, and turned her into the forest. And what I say istrue, for her town is my town also.'The king listened, and his face grew dark. Unluckily he had a hastytemper, and did not stop to reason, and, instead of sending to the town,and discovering people who knew his daughter in law and could have toldhim how hard she had worked and how poor she had been, he believed allthe brother's lying words, and made the queen believe them too. Togetherthey took counsel what they should do, and in the end they decided thatthey also would put her out of the town. But this did not content thebrother.'Kill her,' he said. 'It is no more than she deserves for daring tomarry the king's son. Then she can do no more hurt to anyone.''We cannot kill her,' answered they. 'if we did, our son would assuredlykill us. Let us do as the others did, and put her out of the town. Andwith this the envious brother was forced to be content.The poor girl loved her husband very much, but just then the baby wasmore to her than all else in the world, and as long as she had him withher, she did not very much mind anything. So, taking her son on her arm,and hanging a little earthen pot for cooking round her neck, she lefther house with its great peacock fans and slaves and seats of ivory, andplunged into the forest.For a while she walked, not knowing whither she went, then by and byeshe grew tired, and sat under a tree to rest and to hush her baby tosleep. Suddenly she raised her eyes, and saw a snake wriggling fromunder the bushes towards her.'I am a dead woman,' she said to herself, and stayed quite still, forindeed she was too frightened to move. In another minute the snake hadreached her side, and to her surprise he spoke.'Open your earthen pot, and let me go in. Save me from sun, and I willsave you from rain,' and she opened the pot, and when the snake hadslipped in, she put on the cover. Soon she beheld another snake comingafter the other one, and when it had reached her it stopped and said,'Did you see a small grey snake pass this way just now?''Yes,' she answered, 'it was going very quickly.''Ah, I must hurry and catch it up,' replied the second snake, and ithastened on.When it was out of sight, a voice from the pot said:'Uncover me,' and she lifted the lid, and the little grey snake slidrapidly to the ground.'I am safe now,' he said. 'But tell me, where are you going?''I cannot tell you, for I do not know,' she answered. 'I am justwandering in the wood.''Follow me, and let us go home together,' said the snake, and the girlfollowed his through the forest and along the green paths, till theycame to a great lake, where they stopped to rest.'The sun is hot,' said the snake, 'and you have walked far. Take yourbaby and bathe in that cool place where the boughs of the tree stretchfar over the water.''Yes, I will,' answered she, and they went in. The baby splashed andcrowed with delight, and then he gave a spring and fell right in, down,down, down, and his mother could not find him, though she searched allamong the reeds.Full of terror, she made her way back to the bank, and called to thesnake, 'My baby is gone! he is drowned, and never shall I see himagain.''Go in once more,' said the snake, 'and feel everywhere, even among thetrees that have their roots in the water, lest perhaps he may be heldfast there.'Swiftly she went back and felt everywhere with her whole hand, evenputting her fingers into the tiniest crannies, where a crab could hardlyhave taken shelter.'No, he is not here,' she cried. 'How am I to live without him?' But thesnake took no notice, and only answered, 'Put in your other arm too.''What is the use of that?' she asked, 'when it has no hand to feelwith?' but all the same she did as she was bid, and in an instant thewounded arm touched something round and soft, lying between two stonesin a clump of reeds.'My baby, my baby!' she shouted, and lifted him up, merry and laughing,and not a bit hurt or frightened.'Have you found him this time?' asked the snake.'Yes, oh, yes!' she answered, 'and, why why I have got my hand backagain!' and from sheer joy she burst into tears.The snake let her weep for a little while, and then he said 'Now we will journey on to my family, and we will all repay you for thekindness you showed to me.''You have done more than enough in giving me back my hand,' replied thegirl. but the snake only smiled.'Be quick, lest the sun should set,' he answered, and began to wrigglealong so fast that the girl could hardly follow him.By and bye they arrived at the house in a tree where the snake lived,when he was not travelling with his father and mother. And he told themall his adventures, and how he had escaped from his enemy. The fatherand mother snake could not do enough to show their gratitude. They madetheir guest lie down on a hammock woven of the strong creeperswhich hung from bough to bough, till she was quite rested after herwanderings, while they watched the baby and gave him milk to drink fromthe cocoa nuts which they persuaded their friends the monkeys to crackfor them. They even managed to carry small fruit tied up in their tailsfor the baby's mother, who felt at last that she was safe and at peace.Not that she forgot her husband, for she often thought of him and longedto show him her son, and in the night she would sometimes lie awake andwonder where he was.In this manner many weeks passed by.And what was the prince doing?Well, he had fallen very ill when he was on the furthest border of thekingdom, and he was nursed by some kind people who did not know who hewas, so that the king and queen heard nothing about him. When he wasbetter he made his way home again, and into his father's palace, wherehe found a strange man standing behind the throne with the peacock'sfeathers. This was his wife's brother, whom the king had taken into highfavour, though, of course, the prince was quite ignorant of what hadhappened.For a moment the king and queen stared at their son, as if he had beenunknown to them. he had grown so thin and weak during his illness thathis shoulders were bowed like those of an old man.'Have you forgotten me so soon?' he asked.At the sound of his voice they gave a cry and ran towards him, andpoured out questions as to what had happened, and why he looked likethat. But the prince did not answer any of them.'How is my wife?' he said. There was a pause.Then the queen replied:'She is dead.''Dead!' he repeated, stepping a little backwards. 'And my child?''He is dead too.'The young man stood silent. Then he said, 'Show me their graves.'At these words the king, who had been feeling rather uncomfortable, tookheart again, for had he not prepared two beautiful tombs for his son tosee, so that he might never, never guess what had been done to his wife?All these months the king and queen had been telling each other how goodand merciful they had been not to take her brother's advice and to puther to death. But now, this somehow did not seem so certain.Then the king led the way to the courtyard just behind the palace, andthrough the gate into a beautiful garden where stood two splendidtombs in a green space under the trees. The prince advanced alone, and,resting his head against the stone, he burst into tears. His father andmother stood silently behind with a curious pang in their souls whichthey did not quite understand. Could it be that they were ashamed ofthemselves?But after a while the prince turned round, and walking past them in tothe palace he bade the slaves bring him mourning. For seven days noone saw him, but at the end of them he went out hunting, and helped hisfather rule his people. Only no one dared to speak to him of his wifeand son.At last one morning, after the girl had been lying awake all nightthinking of her husband, she said to her friend the snake:'You have all shown me much kindness, but now I am well again, and wantto go home and hear some news of my husband, and if he still mourns forme!' Now the heart of the snake was sad at her words, but he only said:'Yes, thus it must be. go and bid farewell to my father and mother, butif they offer you a present, see that you take nothing but my father'sring and my mother's casket.'So she went to the parent snakes, who wept bitterly at the thought oflosing her, and offered her gold and jewels as much as she could carryin remembrance of them. But the girl shook her head and pushed theshining heap away from her.'I shall never forget you, never,' she said in a broken voice, 'but theonly tokens I will accept from you are that little ring and this oldcasket.'The two snakes looked at each other in dismay. The ring and the casketwere the only things they did not want her to have. Then after a shortpause they spoke.'Why do you want the ring and casket so much? Who has told you of them?''Oh, nobody. it is just my fancy,' answered she. But the old snakesshook their heads and replied:'Not so. it is our son who told you, and, as he said, so it must be. Ifyou need food, or clothes, or a house, tell the ring and it will findthem for you. And if you are unhappy or in danger, tell the casket andit will set things right.' Then they both gave her their blessing, andshe picked up her baby and went her way.She walked for a long time, till at length she came near the town whereher husband and his father dwelt. Here she stopped under a grove of palmtrees, and told the ring that she wanted a house.'It is ready, mistress,' whispered a queer little voice which madeher jump, and, looking behind her, she saw a lovely palace made of thefinest woods, and a row of slaves with tall fans bowing before the door.Glad indeed was she to enter, for she was very tired, and, after eatinga good supper of fruit and milk which she found in one of the rooms, sheflung herself down on a pile of cushions and went to sleep with her babybeside her.Here she stayed quietly, and every day the baby grew taller andstronger, and very soon he could run about and even talk. Of course theneighbours had a great deal to say about the house which had been builtso quickly so very quickly on the outskirts of the town, and inventedall kinds of stories about the rich lady who lived in it. And by andbye, when the king returned with his son from the wars, some of thesetales reached his ears.'It is really very odd about that house under the palms,' he said to thequeen. 'I must find out something of the lady whom no one ever sees. Idaresay it is not a lady at all, but a gang of conspirators who want toget possession of my throne. To morrow I shall take my son and my chiefministers and insist on getting inside.'Soon after sunrise next day the prince's wife was standing on a littlehill behind the house, when she saw a cloud of dust coming through thetown. A moment afterwards she heard faintly the roll of the drums thatannounced the king's presence, and saw a crowd of people approaching thegrove of palms. Her heart beat fast. Could her husband be among them?In any case they must not discover her there. so just bidding the ringprepare some food for them, she ran inside, and bound a veil of goldengauze round her head and face. Then, taking the child's hand, she wentto the door and waited.In a few minutes the whole procession came up, and she stepped forwardand begged them to come in and rest.'Willingly,' answered the king. 'go first, and we will follow you.'They followed her into a long dark room, in which was a table coveredwith gold cups and baskets filled with dates and cocoa nuts and allkinds of ripe yellow fruits, and the king and the prince sat uponcushions and were served by slaves, while the ministers, among whom sherecognised her own brother, stood behind.'Ah, I owe all my misery to him,' she said to herself. 'From the firsthe has hated me,' but outwardly she showed nothing. And when the kingasked her what news there was in the town she only answered:'You have ridden far. eat first, and drink, for you must be hungry andthirsty, and then I will tell you my news.''You speak sense,' answered the king, and silence prevailed for sometime longer. Then he said:'Now, lady, I have finished, and am refreshed, therefore tell me, I prayyou, who you are, and whence you come? But, first, be seated.'She bowed her head and sat down on a big scarlet cushion, drawing herlittle boy, who was asleep in a corner, on to her knee, and began totell the story of her life. As her brother listened, he would fain haveleft the house and hidden himself in the forest, but it was his duty towave the fan of peacock's feathers over the king's head to keep off theflies, and he knew he would be seized by the royal guards if he triedto desert his post. He must stay where he was, there was no help forit, and luckily for him the king was too much interested in the tale tonotice that the fan had ceased moving, and that flies were dancing righton the top of his thick curly hair.The story went on, but the story teller never once looked at the prince,even through her veil, though he on his side never moved his eyes fromher. When she reached the part where she had sat weeping in the tree,the king's son could restrain himself no longer.'It is my wife,' he cried, springing to where she sat with the sleepingchild in her lap. 'They have lied to me, and you are not dead after all,nor the boy either! But what has happened? Why did they lie to me?and why did you leave my house where you were safe?' And he turned andlooked fiercely at his father.'Let me finish my tale first, and then you will know,' answered she,throwing back her veil, and she told how her brother had come to thepalace and accused her of being a witch, and had tried to persuade theking to slay her. 'But he would not do that,' she continued softly, 'andafter all, if I had stayed on in your house, I should never have met thesnake, nor have got my hand back again. So let us forget all about it,and be happy once more, for see! our son is growing quite a big boy.''And what shall be done to your brother?' asked the king, who was gladto think that someone had acted in this matter worse than himself.'Put him out of the town,' answered she.From 'Swaheli Tales,' by E. Steere.