Long, long ago, when all the animals could talk, there lived in theprovince of Inaba in Japan, a little white hare. His home was on theisland of Oki, and just across the sea was the mainland of Inaba.Now the hare wanted very much to cross over to Inaba. Day after day hewould go out and sit on the shore and look longingly over the water inthe direction of Inaba, and day after day he hoped to find some way ofgetting across.One day as usual, the hare was standing on the beach, looking towardsthe mainland across the water, when he saw a great crocodile swimmingnear the island."This is very lucky!" thought the hare. "Now I shall be able to get mywish. I will ask the crocodile to carry me across the sea!"But he was doubtful whether the crocodile would consent to do whatwanted. So he thought instead of asking a favor he would try to getwhat he wanted by a trick.So with a loud voice he called to the crocodile, and said:"Oh, Mr. Crocodile, isn't it a lovely day?"The crocodile, who had come out all by itself that day to enjoy thebright sunshine, was just beginning to feel a bit lonely when thehare's cheerful greeting broke the silence. The crocodile swam nearerthe shore, very pleased to hear some one speak."I wonder who it was that spoke to me just now! Was it you, Mr. Hare?You must be very lonely all by yourself!""Oh, no, I am not at all lonely," said the hare, "but as it was such afine day I came out here to enjoy myself. Won't you stop and play withme a little while?"The crocodile came out of the sea and sat on the shore, and the twoplayed together for some time. Then the hare said:"Mr. Crocodile, you live in the sea and I live on this island, and wedo not often meet, so I know very little about you. Tell me, do youthink the number of your company is greater than mine?""Of course, there are more crocodiles than hares," answered thecrocodile. "Can you not see that for yourself? You live on this smallisland, while I live in the sea, which spreads through all parts of theworld, so if I call together all the crocodiles who dwell in the seayou hares will be as nothing compared to us!" The crocodile was veryconceited.The hare, who meant to play a trick on the crocodile, said:"Do you think it possible for you to call up enough crocodiles to forma line from this island across the sea to Inaba?"The crocodile thought for a moment and then answered:"Of course, it is possible.""Then do try," said the artful hare, "and I will count the number fromhere!"The crocodile, who was very simple minded, and who hadn't the leastidea that the hare intended to play a trick on him, agreed to do whatthe hare asked, and said:"Wait a little while I go back into the sea and call my companytogether!"The crocodile plunged into the sea and was gone for some time. Thehare, meanwhile, waited patiently on the shore. At last the crocodileappeared, bringing with him a large number of other crocodiles."Look, Mr. Hare!" said the crocodile, "it is nothing for my friends toform a line between here and Inaba. There are enough crocodiles tostretch from here even as far as China or India. Did you ever see somany crocodiles?"Then the whole company of crocodiles arranged themselves in the waterso as to form a bridge between the Island of Oki and the mainland ofInaba. When the hare saw the bridge of crocodiles, he said:"How splendid! I did not believe this was possible. Now let me countyou all! To do this, however, with your permission, I must walk over onyour backs to the other side, so please be so good as not to move, orelse I shall fall into the sea and be drowned!"So the hare hopped off the island on to the strange bridge ofcrocodiles, counting as he jumped from one crocodile's back to theother:"Please keep quite still, or I shall not be able to count. One, two,three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine "Thus the cunning hare walked right across to the mainland of Inaba. Notcontent with getting his wish, he began to jeer at the crocodilesinstead of thanking them, and said, as he leapt off the last one's back:"Oh! you stupid crocodiles, now I have done with you!"And he was just about to run away as fast as he could. But he did notescape so easily, for so soon as the crocodiles understood that thiswas a trick played upon them by the hare so as to enable him to crossthe sea, and that the hare was now laughing at them for theirstupidity, they became furiously angry and made up their minds to takerevenge. So some of them ran after the hare and caught him. Then theyall surrounded the poor little animal and pulled out all his fur. Hecried out loudly and entreated them to spare him, but with each tuft offur they pulled out they said:"Serve you right!"When the crocodiles had pulled out the last bit of fur, they threw thepoor hare on the beach, and all swam away laughing at what they haddone.The hare was now in a pitiful plight, all his beautiful white fur hadbeen pulled out, and his bare little body was quivering with pain andbleeding all over. He could hardly move, and all he could do was to lieon the beach quite helpless and weep over the misfortune that hadbefallen him. Notwithstanding that it was his own fault that hadbrought all this misery and suffering upon the white hare of Inaba, anyone seeing the poor little creature could not help feeling sorry forhim in his sad condition, for the crocodiles had been very cruel intheir revenge.Just at this time a number of men, who looked like King's sons,happened to pass by, and seeing the hare lying on the beach crying,stopped and asked what was the matter.The hare lifted up his head from between his paws, and answered them,saying:"I had a fight with some crocodiles, but I was beaten, and they pulledout all my fur and left me to suffer here that is why I am crying."Now one of these young men had a bad and spiteful disposition. But hefeigned kindness, and said to the hare:"I feel very sorry for you. If you will only try it, I know of a remedywhich will cure your sore body. Go and bathe yourself in the sea, andthen come and sit in the wind. This will make your fur grow again, andyou will be just as you were before."Then all the young men passed on. The hare was very pleased, thinkingthat he had found a cure. He went and bathed in the sea and then cameout and sat where the wind could blow upon him.But as the wind blew and dried him, his skin became drawn and hardened,and the salt increased the pain so much that he rolled on the sand inhis agony and cried aloud.Just then another King's son passed by, carrying a great bag on hisback. He saw the hare, and stopped and asked why he was crying soloudly.But the poor hare, remembering that he had been deceived by one verylike the man who now spoke to him, did not answer, but continued to cry.But this man had a kind heart, and looked at the hare very pityingly,and said:"You poor thing! I see that your fur is all pulled out and that yourskin is quite bare. Who can have treated you so cruelly?"When the hare heard these kind words he felt very grateful to the man,and encouraged by his gentle manner the hare told him all that hadbefallen him. The little animal hid nothing from his friend, but toldhim frankly how he had played a trick on the crocodiles and how he hadcome across the bridge they had made, thinking that he wished to counttheir number: how he had jeered at them for their stupidity, and thenhow the crocodiles had revenged themselves on him. Then he went on tosay how he had been deceived by a party of men who looked very like hiskind friend: and the hare ended his long tale of woe by begging the manto give him some medicine that would cure him and make his fur growagain.When the hare had finished his story, the man was full of pity towardshim, and said:"I am very sorry for all you have suffered, but remember, it was onlythe consequence of the deceit you practiced on the crocodiles.""I know," answered the sorrowful hare, "but I have repented and made upmy mind never to use deceit again, so I beg you to show me how I maycure my sore body and make the fur grow again.""Then I will tell you of a good remedy," said the man. "First go andbathe well in that pond over there and try to wash all the salt fromyour body. Then pick some of those kaba flowers that are growing nearthe edge of the water, spread them on the ground and roll yourself onthem. If you do this the pollen will cause your fur to grow again, andyou will be quite well in a little while."The hare was very glad to be told what to do, so kindly. He crawled tothe pond pointed out to him, bathed well in it, and then picked thekaba flowers growing near the water, and rolled himself on them.To his amazement, even while he was doing this, he saw his nice whitefur growing again, the pain ceased, and he felt just as he had donebefore all his misfortunes.The hare was overjoyed at his quick recovery, and went hopping joyfullytowards the young man who had so helped him, and kneeling down at hisfeet, said:"I cannot express my thanks for all you have done for me! It is myearnest wish to do something for you in return. Please tell me who youare?""I am no King's son as you think me. I am a fairy, and my name isOkuni nushi no Mikoto," answered the man, "and those beings who passedhere before me are my brothers. They have heard of a beautiful Princesscalled Yakami who lives in this province of Inaba, and they are ontheir way to find her and to ask her to marry one of them. But on thisexpedition I am only an attendant, so I am walking behind them withthis great big bag on my back."The hare humbled himself before this great fairy Okuni nushi no Mikoto,whom many in that part of the land worshiped as a god."Oh, I did not know that you were Okuni nushi no Mikoto. How kind youhave been to me! It is impossible to believe that that unkind fellowwho sent me to bathe in the sea is one of your brothers. I am quitesure that the Princess, whom your brothers have gone to seek, willrefuse to be the bride of any of them, and will prefer you for yourgoodness of heart. I am quite sure that you will win her heart withoutintending to do so, and she will ask to be your bride."Okuni nushi no Mikoto took no notice of what the hare said, but biddingthe little animal goodby, went on his way quickly and soon overtook hisbrothers. He found them just entering the Princess's gate.Just as the hare had said, the Princess could not be persuaded tobecome the bride of any of the brothers, but when she looked at thekind brother's face she went straight up to him and said:"To you I give myself," and so they were married.This is the end of the story. Okuni nushi no Mikoto is worshiped by thepeople in some parts of Japan, as a god, and the hare has become famousas "The White Hare of Inaba." But what became of the crocodiles nobodyknows.