Now in those days, the men and the women did not live together. The menlived in one camp and the women in the other. The men lived in lodges madeof skin with the hair on. the women, in good lodges. (The idea is, thatthe women dress the skins, hence the men could not live in dressedskinlodges.) One day Old Man came to the camp of the men, and, when he wasthere, a woman came over from the camp of the women. She said she had beensent by the chief of the women to invite all the men, because the womenwere going to pick out husbands.Now the men began to get ready, and Old Man dressed himself up in hisfinest clothes. He was always fine looking. Then they started out, andwhen they came to the women's camp they all stood up in a row.Now the chief of the women came out to make the first choice. She hadon very dirty clothes, and none of the men knew who she was. She wentalong the line, looked them over, and finally picked out Old Man becauseof his fine appearance.Now Old Man saw many nicely dressed women waiting their turn, and whenthe chief of the women took him by the hand he pulled back and broke away.He did this because he thought her a very common woman. When he pulledaway, the chief of the women went back to her lodge and instructed theother women not to choose Old Man.While the other women were picking out their husbands, the chief of thewomen put on her best costume. When she came out, she looked very fine,and as soon as Old Man saw her, he thought, "Oh! There is the chief of thewomen. I wish to be her husband." He did not know that it was the samewoman.Now the chief of the women came down once more to pick out a husband,and as she went around, Old Man kept stepping in front of her, so that shemight see him. But she paid no attention to him, finally picking outanother for her husband.After a while all the men had been picked out except Old Man. Now hewas very angry. but the chief of the women said to him, "After this youare to be a tree, and stand just where you are now."Then he became a tree, and he is mad yet, because he is always cavingdown the bank.