Seven Wise MastersThere lived in a certain city of Rome a rich burgess, who had a magpye, which he loved so well, that he taught her to speak, so she might tell him all that she saw and heard.The burgess was married to a young wife, much more beautiful than honest. he loved her very well. but she requitted it with slight and disrespect, and made choice of a gallant in her husband's absence, to gratify her lustful appetite. which the magpye observing, told her master at his coming home. so that the report thereof spread itself through the whole city.Her husband thereupon upbraided her with disloyalty and adultery. to which she said, she was innocent, and that he was to blame to believe his magpye, and that as long as he continued so do there would be nothing but variance and discord betwixt them.But he replied, the pye could not lie, for that she saw and heard what she told him. and therefore he would believe her rather than his wife.It happened not long after, that this burgess travelled abroad, and was no sooner gone, but she sent to advise her friend he should come secretly to her that night, to enjoy her as he was accustomed.Being come, as he entered into the house, he said, "Dearest, I am afraid the magpye will discover us!"But she bid him not fear, for it was dark, and therefore the pye could not see them.The pye hearing this, said, "It is true, I see you not, but I can hear you, and know that you are naughty together, which I shall tell my master when he comes home."At which the lusty young man was startled. but she bid him be of good courage, and she would be revenged on the pye. So they went and lay together till about midnight, at which time the adultress arose, and calling her maid servant, commanded her to fetch a ladder, which they set up to the roof of the house, and then they made a hole therein, just over the pye, through which they cast down water, gravel, and small stones, and the like. insomuch that the poor pye was almost killed.Upon the burgess's return, he went to visit his pye, asking how she fared in his absence. the pye replied, "Master I shall satisfy you in both. First I have the old news to tell you, that is, that you are a cuckold. of the very night after your departure, your wife entertained a young man all night in bed with her. notwithstanding, I told them I would inform you thereof. As to my welfare, that very night I had like to have died, it was so tempestuous, either raining, hailing, or snowing all the night."The wife hearing this, said to her husband, "You have hitherto believed in the pye. now, she saith, she had like to have died with rain, hail, and snow, that she accused me of adultery whereas, there was never any thing clearer, but my innocency."The good man, to be satisfied of the truth, enquired of the neighbours, whether that night was fair or foul. Who all affirmed, no night could be fairer.Then going to his wife, he acknowledged the fault of his cruelty, and after that went to the pye, and having railed at her, for sowing discord between man and wife, he wrung her neck off. the wife at the sight thereof was overjoyed. and when he had killed the pye, he looked up and saw a ladder, and a vessel of water, sand, and stones, which made him soon perceive the treachery of his wife. at which he grew so troubled, that for the words of his wife, he had killed the pye, that he sold off all he had, and went on pilgrimage.