A soldier, returning home following a long war, had run out of money, sothat he had nothing left. He met an old woman, whom he asked for a smallgift. The woman was willing, and gave him her old apron. She told him towalk up a brook with it until he came to a willow tree. He should thenclimb this tree and let himself down inside it. Taking leave of her heasked her if he could do something for her on the way."Oh yes," she answered. "Bring me the tinderbox which is there. I forgotit."The soldier went to the tree and climbed down inside it. Below there stooda large chest, and sitting on it was a dog who had eyes in his head thatwere as large as saucers. A second chest was also there, and on it sat adog with eyes as large as plates, and a third chest was there with eyes aslarge as serving platters.With no further ado the soldier set all three dogs onto the old apron andopened the chests. In the first one was copper money, in the second onesilver money, and in the third one minted gold. From this chest he took asmuch as he could carry, not forgetting to pick up the tinderbox as well.Then he climbed out of the hollow tree and went on his way.Not long afterward he again met the old woman, who asked him for thetinderbox, but he did not want to give it to her. They began quarrelingover it, and the soldier struck the old woman dead.He now had money enough and was able to live well, but he spent so muchthat it soon came to an end. With time his many friends abandoned him,until at last he was living desolate and alone.One day he wanted to light a pipe, and for this he used the tinderbox,which he had long forgotten. He suddenly discovered what the tinderbox wasgood for. The three dogs immediately appeared and asked him what hewished. He told them to bring him some money. Less than a half hour laterthe dogs returned with a large sum of money.Now he was once again wealthy, and thought he would like to marry theprincess, who lived in the city. But he did not know where to begin,because he was not at all handsome. Then he called his dogs and asked themif they knew how to make it happen."We can do that," replied the dogs, and ran away.That evening all three went to the castle and brought the princess ontheir backs to the soldier. Afterward they took her back to the castle inthe same way.The next morning the princess told about this, as though it had been adream. However, the king was concerned and posted guards outside herbedroom door. When the dogs returned the next night the guards wereasleep, so the dogs took the princess with them again. However, onesoldier saw them, followed them, and drew a mark on the house that theyran into. But the dogs observed this, and they drew marks on all thehouses, so that no one could know where the princess had been. On thethird evening the dogs fetched the princess again. This time the soldierscattered peas in front of the house, but the dogs gathered up all thepeas.On the fourth day the soldier himself went to the king and asked for hisdaughter's hand in marriage, but the king had him thrown into prison. Nowhe was lost, for he did not have his tinderbox with him, and was not ableto call the dogs. He thought long and hard how he might escape, butnothing came to him. Then a boy walked beneath his window, and the soldierasked him to do him a favor, the last one, because in only a few days hewas to die. The boy was willing.He asked him to fetch the tinderbox that was in his room, and describedexactly where it was. The boy soon returned with the tinderbox, and thesoldier pulled it up to his barred window with a string."Now everything is all right," he thought. Later when he was standing atthe place of execution he asked permission to smoke one last time, andthis was granted him. He had scarcely struck a light when the three dogsarrived. He said to them, "Attack!" and they tore apart the judges and theking. Then the soldier married the princess. He lived very happily withher, and if they have not died then they are still alive.