The General lived in the grand first floor, and the porter livedin the cellar. There was a great distance between the two families thewhole of the ground floor, and the difference in rank. but theylived in the same house, and both had a view of the street, and of thecourtyard. In the courtyard was a grass plot, on which grew a bloomingacacia tree (when it was in bloom), and under this tree satoccasionally the finely dressed nurse, with the still morefinely dressed child of the General little Emily. Before themdanced about barefoot the little son of the porter, with his greatbrown eyes and dark hair. and the little girl smiled at him, andstretched out her hands towards him. and when the General saw thatfrom the window, he would nod his head and cry, "Charming!" TheGeneral's lady (who was so young that she might very well have beenher husband's daughter from an early marriage) never came to thewindow that looked upon the courtyard. She had given orders, though,that the boy might play his antics to amuse her child, but mustnever touch it. The nurse punctually obeyed the gracious lady'sorders.The sun shone in upon the people in the grand first floor, andupon the people in the cellar. the acacia tree was covered withblossoms, and they fell off, and next year new ones came. The treebloomed, and the porter's little son bloomed too, and looked like afresh tulip.The General's little daughter became delicate and pale, like theleaf of the acacia blossom. She seldom came down to the tree now,for she took the air in a carriage. She drove out with her mamma,and then she would always nod at the porter's George. yes, she usedeven to kiss her hand to him, till her mamma said she was too old todo that now.One morning George was sent up to carry the General the lettersand newspapers that had been delivered at the porter's room in themorning. As he was running up stairs, just as he passed the door ofthe sand box, he heard a faint piping. He thought it was some youngchicken that had strayed there, and was raising cries of distress. butit was the General's little daughter, decked out in lace and finery."Don't tell papa and mamma," she whimpered. "they would be angry.""What's the matter, little missie?" asked George."It's all on fire!" she answered. "It's burning with a brightflame!" George hurried up stairs to the General's apartments. heopened the door of the nursery. The window curtain was almost entirelyburnt, and the wooden curtain pole was one mass of flame. Georgesprang upon a chair he brought in haste, and pulled down the burningarticles. he then alarmed the people. But for him, the house wouldhave been burned down.The General and his lady cross questioned little Emily."I only took just one lucifer match," she said, "and it wasburning directly, and the curtain was burning too. I spat at it, toput it out. I spat at it as much as ever I could, but I could notput it out. so I ran away and hid myself, for papa and mamma wouldbe angry.""I spat!" cried the General's lady. "what an expression! Did youever hear your papa and mamma talk about spitting? You must have gotthat from down stairs!"And George had a penny given him. But this penny did not go to thebaker's shop, but into the savings box. and soon there were so manypennies in the savings box that he could buy a paint box and color thedrawings he made, and he had a great number of drawings. They seemedto shoot out of his pencil and out of his fingers' ends. His firstcolored pictures he presented to Emily."Charming!" said the General, and even the General's ladyacknowledged that it was easy to see what the boy had meant to draw."He has genius." Those were the words that were carried down intothe cellar.The General and his gracious lady were grand people. They hadtwo coats of arms on their carriage, a coat of arms for each ofthem, and the gracious lady had had this coat of arms embroidered onboth sides of every bit of linen she had, and even on her nightcap andher dressing bag. One of the coats of arms, the one that belonged toher, was a very dear one. it had been bought for hard cash by herfather, for he had not been born with it, nor had she. she had comeinto the world too early, seven years before the coat of arms, andmost people remembered this circumstance, but the family did notremember it. A man might well have a bee in his bonnet, when he hadsuch a coat of arms to carry as that, let alone having to carry two.and the General's wife had a bee in hers when she drove to the courtball, as stiff and as proud as you please.The General was old and gray, but he had a good seat on horseback,and he knew it, and he rode out every day, with a groom behind himat a proper distance. When he came to a party, he looked somehow as ifhe were riding into the room upon his high horse. and he had orders,too, such a number that no one would have believed it. but that wasnot his fault. As a young man he had taken part in the great autumnreviews which were held in those days. He had an anecdote that he toldabout those days, the only one he knew. A subaltern under his ordershad cut off one of the princes, and taken him prisoner, and the Princehad been obliged to ride through the town with a little band ofcaptured soldiers, himself a prisoner behind the General. This wasan ever memorable event, and was always told over and over again everyyear by the General, who, moreover, always repeated the remarkablewords he had used when he returned his sword to the Prince. thosewords were, "Only my subaltern could have taken your Highnessprisoner. I could never have done it!" And the Prince had replied,"You are incomparable." In a real war the General had never takenpart. When war came into the country, he had gone on a diplomaticcareer to foreign courts. He spoke the French language so fluentlythat he had almost forgotten his own. he could dance well, he couldride well, and orders grew on his coat in an astounding way. Thesentries presented arms to him, one of the most beautiful girlspresented arms to him, and became the General's lady, and in time theyhad a pretty, charming child, that seemed as if it had dropped fromheaven, it was so pretty. and the porter's son danced before it in thecourtyard, as soon as it could understand it, and gave her all hiscolored pictures, and little Emily looked at them, and was pleased,and tore them to pieces. She was pretty and delicate indeed."My little Roseleaf!" cried the General's lady, "thou art bornto wed a prince."The prince was already at the door, but they knew nothing of it.people don't see far beyond the threshold."The day before yesterday our boy divided his bread and butterwith her!" said the porter's wife. There was neither cheese normeat upon it, but she liked it as well as if it had been roast beef.There would have been a fine noise if the General and his wife hadseen the feast, but they did not see it.George had divided his bread and butter with little Emily, andhe would have divided his heart with her, if it would have pleasedher. He was a good boy, brisk and clever, and he went to the nightschool in the Academy now, to learn to draw properly. Little Emily wasgetting on with her education too, for she spoke French with her"bonne," and had a dancing master."George will be confirmed at Easter," said the porter's wife.for George had got so far as this."It would be the best thing, now, to make an apprentice of him,"said his father. "It must be to some good calling and then he wouldbe out of the house.""He would have to sleep out of the house," said George's mother."It is not easy to find a master who has room for him at night, and weshall have to provide him with clothes too. The little bit of eatingthat he wants can be managed for him, for he's quite happy with afew boiled potatoes. and he gets taught for nothing. Let the boy gohis own way. You will say that he will be our joy some day, and theProfessor says so too."The confirmation suit was ready. The mother had worked it herself.but the tailor who did repairs had cut them out, and a capitalcutter out he was."If he had had a better position, and been able to keep a workshopand journeymen," the porter's wife said, "he might have been a courttailor."The clothes were ready, and the candidate for confirmation wasready. On his confirmation day, George received a great pinchbeckwatch from his godfather, the old iron monger's shopman, the richestof his godfathers. The watch was an old and tried servant. It alwayswent too fast, but that is better than to be lagging behind. Thatwas a costly present. And from the General's apartment there arrived ahymn book bound in morocco, sent by the little lady to whom George hadgiven pictures. At the beginning of the book his name was written, andher name, as "his gracious patroness." These words had been written atthe dictation of the General's lady, and the General had read theinscription, and pronounced it "Charming!""That is really a great attention from a family of such position,"said the porter's wife. and George was sent up stairs to showhimself in his confirmation clothes, with the hymn book in his hand.The General's lady was sitting very much wrapped up, and had thebad headache she always had when time hung heavy upon her hands. Shelooked at George very pleasantly, and wished him all prosperity, andthat he might never have her headache. The General was walking aboutin his dressing gown. He had a cap with a long tassel on his head, andRussian boots with red tops on his feet. He walked three times upand down the room, absorbed in his own thoughts and recollections, andthen stopped and said:"So little George is a confirmed Christian now. Be a good man, andhonor those in authority over you. Some day, when you are an oldman, you can say that the General gave you this precept."That was a longer speech than the General was accustomed tomake, and then he went back to his ruminations, and looked veryaristocratic. But of all that George heard and saw up there, littleMiss Emily remained most clear in his thoughts. How graceful shewas, how gentle, and fluttering, and pretty she looked. If she were tobe drawn, it ought to be on a soap bubble. About her dress, abouther yellow curled hair, there was a fragrance as of a fresh blownrose. and to think that he had once divided his bread and butterwith her, and that she had eaten it with enormous appetite, and noddedto him at every second mouthful! Did she remember anything about it?Yes, certainly, for she had given him the beautiful hymn book inremembrance of this. and when the first new moon in the first new yearafter this event came round, he took a piece of bread, a penny, andhis hymn book, and went out into the open air, and opened the bookto see what psalm he should turn up. It was a psalm of praise andthanksgiving. Then he opened the book again to see what would turnup for little Emily. He took great pains not to open the book in theplace where the funeral hymns were, and yet he got one that referredto the grave and death. But then he thought this was not a thing inwhich one must believe. for all that he was startled when soonafterwards the pretty little girl had to lie in bed, and thedoctor's carriage stopped at the gate every day."They will not keep her with them," said the porter's wife. "Thegood God knows whom He will summon to Himself."But they kept her after all. and George drew pictures and sentthem to her. He drew the Czar's palace. the old Kremlin at Moscow,just as it stood, with towers and cupolas. and these cupolas lookedlike gigantic green and gold cucumbers, at least in George'sdrawing. Little Emily was highly pleased, and consequently, when aweek had elapsed, George sent her a few more pictures, all withbuildings in them. for, you see, she could imagine all sorts of thingsinside the windows and doors.He drew a Chinese house, with bells hanging from every one ofsixteen stories. He drew two Grecian temples with slender marblepillars, and with steps all round them. He drew a Norwegian church. Itwas easy to see that this church had been built entirely of wood, hewnout and wonderfully put together. every story looked as if it hadrockers, like a cradle. But the most beautiful of all was thecastle, drawn on one of the leaves, and which he called "Emily'sCastle." This was the kind of place in which she must live. That iswhat George had thought, and consequently he had put into thisbuilding whatever he thought most beautiful in all the others. Ithad carved wood work, like the Norwegian church. marble pillars,like the Grecian temple. bells in every story. and was crowned withcupolas, green and gilded, like those of the Kremlin of the Czar. Itwas a real child's castle, and under every window was written what thehall or the room inside was intended to be. for instance: "HereEmily sleeps." "Here Emily dances." "Here Emily plays at receivingvisitors." It was a real pleasure to look at the castle, and rightwell was the castle looked at accordingly."Charming!" said the General.But the old Count for there was an old Count there, who was stillgrander than the General, and had a castle of his own said nothing atall. he heard that it had been designed and drawn by the porter'slittle son. Not that he was so very little, either, for he had alreadybeen confirmed. The old Count looked at the pictures, and had hisown thoughts as he did so.One day, when it was very gloomy, gray, wet weather, the brightestof days dawned for George. for the Professor at the Academy called himinto his room."Listen to me, my friend," said the Professor. "I want to speak toyou. The Lord has been good to you in giving you abilities, and He hasalso been good in placing you among kind people. The old Count atthe corner yonder has been speaking to me about you. I have alsoseen your sketches. but we will not say any more about those, forthere is a good deal to correct in them. But from this time forwardyou may come twice a week to my drawing class, and then you willsoon learn how to do them better. I think there's more of thearchitect than of the painter in you. You will have time to think thatover. but go across to the old Count this very day, and thank Godfor having sent you such a friend."It was a great house the house of the old Count at the corner.Round the windows elephants and dromedaries were carved, all fromthe old times. but the old Count loved the new time best, and whatit brought, whether it came from the first floor, or from thecellar, or from the attic."I think," said, the porter's wife, "the grander people are, thefewer airs do they give themselves. How kind and straightforward theold count is! and he talks exactly like you and me. Now, the Generaland his lady can't do that. And George was fairly wild with delightyesterday at the good reception he met with at the Count's, and soam I to day, after speaking to the great man. Wasn't it a good thingthat we didn't bind George apprentice to a handicraftsman? for hehas abilities of his own.""But they must be helped on by others," said the father."That help he has got now," rejoined the mother. "for the Countspoke out quite clearly and distinctly.""But I fancy it began with the General," said the father, "andwe must thank them too.""Let us do so with all my heart," cried the mother, "though Ifancy we have not much to thank them for. I will thank the good God.and I will thank Him, too, for letting little Emily get well."Emily was getting on bravely, and George got on bravely too. Inthe course of the year he won the little silver prize medal of theAcademy, and afterwards he gained the great one too."It would have been better, after all, if he had beenapprenticed to a handicraftsman," said the porter's wife, weeping."for then we could have kept him with us. What is he to do in Rome?I shall never get a sight of him again, not even if he comes back. butthat he won't do, the dear boy.""It is fortune and fame for him," said the father."Yes, thank you, my friend," said the mother. "you are saying whatyou do not mean. You are just as sorrowful as I am."And it was all true about the sorrow and the journey. Buteverybody said it was a great piece of good fortune for the youngfellow. And he had to take leave, and of the General too. TheGeneral's lady did not show herself, for she had her bad headache.On this occasion the General told his only anecdote, about what he hadsaid to the Prince, and how the Prince had said to him, "You areincomparable." And he held out a languid hand to George.Emily gave George her hand too, and looked almost sorry. andGeorge was the most sorry of all.Time goes by when one has something to do. and it goes by, too,when one has nothing to do. The time is equally long, but notequally useful. It was useful to George, and did not seem long at all,except when he happened to be thinking of his home. How might the goodfolks be getting on, up stairs and down stairs? Yes, there was writingabout that, and many things can be put into a letter brightsunshine and dark, heavy days. Both of these were in the letterwhich brought the news that his father was dead, and that his motherwas alone now. She wrote that Emily had come down to see her, andhad been to her like an angel of comfort. and concerning herself,she added that she had been allowed to keep her situation asporteress.The General's lady kept a diary, and in this diary was recordedevery ball she attended and every visit she received. The diary wasillustrated by the insertion of the visiting cards of the diplomaticcircle and of the most noble families. and the General's lady wasproud of it. The diary kept growing through a long time, and amid manysevere headaches, and through a long course of half nights, that is tosay, of court balls. Emily had now been to a court ball for thefirst time. Her mother had worn a bright red dress, with black lace,in the Spanish style. the daughter had been attired in white, fair anddelicate. green silk ribbons fluttered like flag leaves among heryellow locks, and on her head she wore a wreath of water lillies.Her eyes were so blue and clear, her mouth was so delicate and red,she looked like a little water spirit, as beautiful as such a spiritcan be imagined. The Princes danced with her, one after another ofcourse. and the General's lady had not a headache for a weekafterwards.But the first ball was not the last, and Emily could not stand it.it was a good thing, therefore, that summer brought with it rest,and exercise in the open air. The family had been invited by the oldCount to visit him at him castle. That was a castle with a gardenwhich was worth seeing. Part of this garden was laid out quite inthe style of the old days, with stiff green hedges. you walked as ifbetween green walls with peep holes in them. Box trees and yew treesstood there trimmed into the form of stars and pyramids, and watersprang from fountains in large grottoes lined with shells. Allaround stood figures of the most beautiful stone that could be seenin their clothes as well as in their faces. every flower bed had adifferent shape, and represented a fish, or a coat of arms, or amonogram. That was the French part of the garden. and from this partthe visitor came into what appeared like the green, fresh forest,where the trees might grow as they chose, and accordingly they weregreat and glorious. The grass was green, and beautiful to walk on, andit was regularly cut, and rolled, and swept, and tended. That wasthe English part of the garden."Old time and new time," said the Count, "here they run wellinto one another. In two years the building itself will put on aproper appearance, there will be a complete metamorphosis in beautyand improvement. I shall show you the drawings, and I shall show youthe architect, for he is to dine here to day.""Charming!" said the General."'Tis like Paradise here," said the General's lady, "and yonderyou have a knight's castle!""That's my poultry house," observed the Count. "The pigeons livein the tower, the turkeys in the first floor, but old Elsie rules inthe ground floor. She has apartments on all sides of her. Thesitting hens have their own room, and the hens with chickens havetheirs. and the ducks have their own particular door leading to thewater.""Charming!" repeated the General.And all sailed forth to see these wonderful things. Old Elsiestood in the room on the ground floor, and by her side stood ArchitectGeorge. He and Emily now met for the first time after several years,and they met in the poultry house.Yes, there he stood, and was handsome enough to be looked at.His face was frank and energetic. he had black shining hair, and asmile about his mouth, which said, "I have a brownie that sits in myear, and knows every one of you, inside and out." Old Elsie had pulledoff her wooden shoes, and stood there in her stockings, to do honor tothe noble guests. The hens clucked, and the cocks crowed, and theducks waddled to and fro, and said, "Quack, quack!" But the fair, palegirl, the friend of his childhood, the daughter of the General,stood there with a rosy blush on her usually pale cheeks, and her eyesopened wide, and her mouth seemed to speak without uttering a word,and the greeting he received from her was the most beautifulgreeting a young man can desire from a young lady, if they are notrelated, or have not danced many times together, and she and thearchitect had never danced together.The Count shook hands with him, and introduced him."He is not altogether a stranger, our young friend George."The General's lady bowed to him, and the General's daughter wasvery nearly giving him her hand. but she did not give it to him."Our little Master George!" said the General. "Old friends!Charming!""You have become quite an Italian," said the General's lady,"and I presume you speak the language like a native?""My wife sings the language, but she does not speak it,"observed the General.At dinner, George sat at the right hand of Emily, whom the Generalhad taken down, while the Count led in the General's lady.Mr. George talked and told of his travels. and he could talk well,and was the life and soul of the table, though the old Count couldhave been it too. Emily sat silent, but she listened, and her eyesgleamed, but she said nothing.In the verandah, among the flowers, she and George stood together.the rose bushes concealed them. And George was speaking again, forhe took the lead now."Many thanks for the kind consideration you showed my old mother,"he said. "I know that you went down to her on the night when my fatherdied, and you stayed with her till his eyes were closed. Myheartiest thanks!"He took Emily's hand and kissed it he might do so on such anoccasion. She blushed deeply, but pressed his hand, and looked athim with her dear blue eyes."Your mother was a dear soul!" she said. "How fond she was ofher son! And she let me read all your letters, so that I almostbelieve I know you. How kind you were to me when I was little girl!You used to give me pictures.""Which you tore in two," said George."No, I have still your drawing of the castle.""I must build the castle in reality now," said George. and hebecame quite warm at his own words.The General and the General's lady talked to each other in theirroom about the porter's son how he knew how to behave, and to expresshimself with the greatest propriety."He might be a tutor," said the General."Intellect!" said the General's lady. but she did not say anythingmore.During the beautiful summer time Mr. George several timesvisited the Count at his castle. and he was missed when he did notcome."How much the good God has given you that he has not given to uspoor mortals," said Emily to him. "Are you sure you are verygrateful for it?"It flattered George that the lovely young girl should look up tohim, and he thought then that Emily had unusually good abilities.And the General felt more and more convinced that George was nocellar child."His mother was a very good woman," he observed. "It is only rightI should do her that justice now she is in her grave."The summer passed away, and the winter came. again there wastalk about Mr. George. He was highly respected, and was received inthe first circles. The General had met him at a court ball.And now there was a ball to be given in the General's house forEmily, and could Mr. George be invited to it?"He whom the King invites can be invited by the General also,"said the General, and drew himself up till he stood quite an inchhigher than before.Mr. George was invited, and he came. princes and counts came,and they danced, one better than the other. But Emily could only danceone dance the first. for she made a false step nothing ofconsequence. but her foot hurt her, so that she had to be careful, andleave off dancing, and look at the others. So she sat and looked on,and the architect stood by her side."I suppose you are giving her the whole history of St. Peter's,"said the General, as he passed by. and smiled, like thepersonification of patronage.With the same patronizing smile he received Mr. George a fewdays afterwards. The young man came, no doubt, to return thanks forthe invitation to the ball. What else could it be? But indeed therewas something else, something very astonishing and startling. He spokewords of sheer lunacy, so that the General could hardly believe hisown ears. It was "the height of rhodomontade," an offer, quite aninconceivable offer Mr. George came to ask the hand of Emily inmarriage!"Man!" cried the General, and his brain seemed to be boiling. "Idon't understand you at all. What is it you say? What is it youwant? I don't know you. Sir! Man! What possesses you to break intomy house? And am I to stand here and listen to you?" He steppedbackwards into his bed room, locked the door behind him, and leftMr. George standing alone. George stood still for a few minutes, andthen turned round and left the room. Emily was standing in thecorridor."My father has answered?" she said, and her voice trembled.George pressed her hand."He has escaped me," he replied. "but a better time will come."There were tears in Emily's eyes, but in the young man's eyesshone courage and confidence. and the sun shone through the window,and cast his beams on the pair, and gave them his blessing.The General sat in his room, bursting hot. Yes, he was stillboiling, until he boiled over in the exclamation, "Lunacy! porter!madness!"Not an hour was over before the General's lady knew it out ofthe General's own mouth. She called Emily, and remained alone withher."You poor child," she said. "to insult you so! to insult us so!There are tears in your eyes, too, but they become you well. Youlook beautiful in tears. You look as I looked on my wedding day.Weep on, my sweet Emily.""Yes, that I must," said Emily, "if you and my father do not say'yes.'""Child!" screamed the General's lady. "you are ill! You aretalking wildly, and I shall have a most terrible headache! Oh, whata misfortune is coming upon our house! Don't make your mother die,Emily, or you will have no mother."And the eyes of the General's lady were wet, for she could notbear to think of her own death.In the newspapers there was an announcement. "Mr. George hasbeen elected Professor of the Fifth Class, number Eight.""It's a pity that his parents are dead and cannot read it," saidthe new porter people, who now lived in the cellar under the General'sapartments. They knew that the Professor had been born and grown upwithin their four walls."Now he'll get a salary," said the man."Yes, that's not much for a poor child," said the woman."Eighteen dollars a year," said the man. "Why, it's a good deal ofmoney.""No, I mean the honor of it," replied the wife. "Do you think hecares for the money? Those few dollars he can earn a hundred timesover, and most likely he'll get a rich wife into the bargain. If wehad children of our own, husband, our child should be an architect anda professor too."George was spoken well of in the cellar, and he was spoken well ofin the first floor. The old Count took upon himself to do that.The pictures he had drawn in his childhood gave occasion for it.But how did the conversation come to turn on these pictures? Why, theyhad been talking of Russia and of Moscow, and thus mention was made ofthe Kremlin, which little George had once drawn for Miss Emily. He haddrawn many pictures, but the Count especially remembered one, "Emily'sCastle," where she was to sleep, and to dance, and to play atreceiving guests."The Professor was a true man," said the Count, "and would be aprivy councillor before he died, it was not at all unlikely. and hemight build a real castle for the young lady before that time came:why not?""That was a strange jest," remarked the General's lady, when theCount had gone away. The General shook his head thoughtfully, and wentout for a ride, with his groom behind him at a proper distance, and hesat more stiffly than ever on his high horse.It was Emily's birthday. Flowers, books, letters, and visitingcards came pouring in. The General's lady kissed her on the mouth, andthe General kissed her on the forehead. they were affectionateparents, and they and Emily had to receive grand visitors, two ofthe Princes. They talked of balls and theatres, of diplomaticmissions, of the government of empires and nations. and then theyspoke of talent, native talent. and so the discourse turned upon theyoung architect."He is building up an immortality for himself," said one, "andhe will certainly build his way into one of our first families.""One of our first families!" repeated the General and afterwardsthe General's lady. "what is meant by one of our first families?""I know for whom it was intended," said the General's lady, "but Ishall not say it. I don't think it. Heaven disposes, but I shall beastonished.""I am astonished also!" said the General. "I haven't an idea in myhead!" And he fell into a reverie, waiting for ideas.There is a power, a nameless power, in the possession of favorfrom above, the favor of Providence, and this favor little George had.But we are forgetting the birthday.Emily's room was fragrant with flowers, sent by male and femalefriends. on the table lay beautiful presents for greeting andremembrance, but none could come from George none could come fromhim. but it was not necessary, for the whole house was full ofremembrances of him. Even out of the ash bin the blossom of memorypeeped forth, for Emily had sat whimpering there on the day when thewindow curtain caught fire, and George arrived in the character offire engine. A glance out of the window, and the acacia treereminded of the days of childhood. Flowers and leaves had fallen,but there stood the tree covered with hoar frost, looking like asingle huge branch of coral, and the moon shone clear and largeamong the twigs, unchanged in its changings, as it was when Georgedivided his bread and butter with little Emily.Out of a box the girl took the drawings of the Czar's palace andof her own castle remembrances of George. The drawings were lookedat, and many thoughts came. She remembered the day when, unobserved byher father and mother, she had gone down to the porter's wife wholay dying. Once again she seemed to sit beside her, holding thedying woman's hand in hers, hearing the dying woman's last words:"Blessing George!" The mother was thinking of her son, and now Emilygave her own interpretation to those words. Yes, George wascertainly with her on her birthday.It happened that the next day was another birthday in thathouse, the General's birthday. He had been born the day after hisdaughter, but before her of course many years before her. Manypresents arrived, and among them came a saddle of exquisiteworkmanship, a comfortable and costly saddle one of the Princes hadjust such another. Now, from whom might this saddle come? TheGeneral was delighted. There was a little note with the saddle. Now ifthe words on the note had been "many thanks for yesterday'sreception," we might easily have guessed from whom it came. But thewords were "From somebody whom the General does not know.""Whom in the world do I not know?" exclaimed the General. "Iknow everybody." and his thoughts wandered all through society, for heknew everybody there. "That saddle comes from my wife!" he said atlast. "She is teasing me charming!"But she was not teasing him. those times were past.Again there was a feast, but it was not in the General's house, itwas a fancy ball at the Prince's, and masks were allowed too.The General went as Rubens, in a Spanish costume, with a littleruff round his neck, a sword by his side, and a stately manner. TheGeneral's lady was Madame Rubens, in black velvet made high roundthe neck, exceedingly warm, and with a mill stone round her neck inthe shape of a great ruff accurately dressed after a Dutch picture inthe possession of the General, in which the hands were especiallyadmired. They were just like the hands of the General's lady.Emily was Psyche. In white crape and lace she was like afloating swan. She did not want wings at all. She only wore them asemblematic of Psyche.Brightness, splendor, light and flowers, wealth and taste appearedat the ball. there was so much to see, that the beautiful hands ofMadame Rubens made no sensation at all.A black domino, with an acacia blossom in his cap, danced withPsyche."Who is that?" asked the General's lady."His Royal Highness," replied the General. "I am quite sure of it.I knew him directly by the pressure of his hand."The General's lady doubted it.General Rubens had no doubts about it. He went up to the blackdomino and wrote the royal letters in the mask's hand. These weredenied, but the mask gave him a hint.The words that came with the saddle: "One whom you do not know,General.""But I do know you," said the General. "It was you who sent me thesaddle."The domino raised his hand, and disappeared among the otherguests."Who is that black domino with whom you were dancing, Emily?"asked the General's lady."I did not ask his name," she replied, "because you knew it. It isthe Professor. Your protege is here, Count!" she continued, turning tothat nobleman, who stood close by. "A black domino with acaciablossoms in his cap.""Very likely, my dear lady," replied the Count. "But one of thePrinces wears just the same costume.""I knew the pressure of the hand," said the General. "The saddlecame from the Prince. I am so certain of it that I could invite thatdomino to dinner.""Do so. If it be the Prince he will certainly come," replied theCount."And if it is the other he will not come," said the General, andapproached the black domino, who was just speaking with the King.The General gave a very respectful invitation "that they might makeeach other's acquaintance," and he smiled in his certaintyconcerning the person he was inviting. He spoke loud and distinctly.The domino raised his mask, and it was George. "Do you repeat yourinvitation, General?" he asked.The General certainly seemed to grow an inch taller, assumed amore stately demeanor, and took two steps backward and one stepforward, as if he were dancing a minuet, and then came as much gravityand expression into the face of the General as the General couldcontrive to infuse into it. but he replied,"I never retract my words! You are invited, Professor!" and hebowed with a glance at the King, who must have heard the wholedialogue.Now, there was a company to dinner at the General's, but onlythe old Count and his protege were invited."I have my foot under his table," thought George. "That's layingthe foundation stone."And the foundation stone was really laid, with great ceremony,at the house of the General and of the General's lady.The man had come, and had spoken quite like a person in goodsociety, and had made himself very agreeable, so that the Generalhad often to repeat his "Charming!" The General talked of this dinner,talked of it even to a court lady. and this lady, one of the mostintellectual persons about the court, asked to be invited to meetthe Professor the next time he should come. So he had to be invitedagain. and he was invited, and came, and was charming again. hecould even play chess."He's not out of the cellar," said the General. "he's quite adistinguished person. There are many distinguished persons of thatkind, and it's no fault of his."The Professor, who was received in the King's palace, might verywell be received by the General. but that he could ever belong tothe house was out of the question, only the whole town was talkingof it.He grew and grew. The dew of favor fell from above, so no onewas surprised after all that he should become a Privy Councillor,and Emily a Privy Councillor's lady."Life is either a tragedy or a comedy," said the General. "Intragedies they die, in comedies they marry one another."In this case they married. And they had three clever boys but notall at once.The sweet children rode on their hobby horses through all therooms when they came to see the grandparents. And the General alsorode on his stick. he rode behind them in the character of groom tothe little Privy Councillors.And the General's lady sat on her sofa and smiled at them, evenwhen she had her severest headache.So far did George get, and much further. else it had not beenworth while to tell the story of THE PORTER'S SON.