About a hundred years ago (in the eighteenth century) a noblewoman fromOberland was engaged to marry a very handsome officer. Shortly beforetheir marriage he was called to the field of battle, where he remained.The noblewoman was so beside herself that in her despair she cursedGod.In the night the devil came to her in the form of her beloved, and hecalled upon her to pledge her soul to him. In return he would accompanyher, in this form, as long as she lived. Further, he would give her greatmagic power. She agreed to this, and the devil remained with her. He wasnot exactly invisible, but still secret, and no one knew about him.After a while he advised her to enter a convent, which she did. Shewould now lock herself in her cell with her beloved, while her phantomform was praying in the church. She gained the reputation of great piety,and soon afterward became the abbess.From this time forward miraculous events began to occur in the convent.Most prominently, from time to time several nuns were attacked withlong lasting and unknown ailments, which she was able to cure through herapparent intercession. Thus her holy reputation grew ever greater.The first suspicion came from several children who often visited theconvent. The abbess, who loved children, would show them magic trickswhenever she was alone with them. She told others about this, although shehad strictly forbidden them to do so. Above all, the abbess would ask thechildren if they would like her to make some little mice for them,whereupon the table would immediately be crawling with small, tamemice.The children were too young for one to give much credibility to theirtalk, but once a young nun, on her way to church, passed by the abbess'scell and heard the abbess whispering lightly with a man's voice. Curious,she looked through the keyhole and saw the abbess and an officer. But whenshe entered the church she saw the abbess's form praying there before thealtar, and she feinted with fright. Afterward she reported what she hadseen.The abbess was arrested in her bed that night. She very forward, sayingthat she would get up and go along with them if they would just reach herstick to her. Someone standing there threw the first stick to her thatcame to hand, but she refused it, asking for a specific other one. Theytook note of this and refused to give it to her, in spite of her cunningpretenses. Even after she was put in jail, she continued to try to gethold of the stick through all kinds of tricks, but to no avail.She finally lost her daring, and shortly before she was executed, sheconfessed. If she had gotten hold of the stick, no power on earth wouldhave been able to restrain her. She was finally burned to death, afterhaving confessed many things.