There was once a crab who lived in a hole on the shady side of amountain. She was a very good housewife, and so careful and industriousthat there was no creature in the whole country whose hole was so neatand clean as hers, and she took great pride in it.One day she saw lying near the mouth of her hole a handful of cookedrice which some pilgrim must have let fall when he was stopping to eathis dinner. Delighted at this discovery, she hastened to the spot, andwas carrying the rice back to her hole when a monkey, who lived in sometrees near by, came down to see what the crab was doing. His eyes shoneat the sight of the rice, for it was his favourite food, and like thesly fellow he was, he proposed a bargain to the crab. She was to givehim half the rice in exchange for the kernel of a sweet red kaki fruitwhich he had just eaten. He half expected that the crab would laugh inhis face at this impudent proposal, but instead of doing so she onlylooked at him for a moment with her head on one side and then said thatshe would agree to the exchange. So the monkey went off with his rice,and the crab returned to her hole with the kernel.For some time the crab saw no more of the monkey, who had gone to pay avisit on the sunny side of the mountain. but one morning he happened topass by her hole, and found her sitting under the shadow of a beautifulkaki tree.'Good day,' he said politely, 'you have some very fine fruit there! I amvery hungry, could you spare me one or two?''Oh, certainly,' replied the crab, 'but you must forgive me if I cannotget them for you myself. I am no tree climber.''Pray do not apologise,' answered the monkey. 'Now that I have yourpermission I can get them myself quite easily.' And the crab consentedto let him go up, merely saying that he must throw her down half thefruit.In another moment he was swinging himself from branch to branch, eatingall the ripest kakis and filling his pockets with the rest, and the poorcrab saw to her disgust that the few he threw down to her were eithernot ripe at all or else quite rotten.'You are a shocking rogue,' she called in a rage. but the monkey took nonotice, and went on eating as fast as he could. The crab understood thatit was no use her scolding, so she resolved to try what cunning woulddo.'Sir Monkey,' she said, 'you are certainly a very good climber, but nowthat you have eaten so much, I am quite sure you would never be ableto turn one of your somersaults.' The monkey prided himself on turningbetter somersaults than any of his family, so he instantly went headover heels three times on the bough on which he was sitting, and all thebeautiful kakis that he had in his pockets rolled to the ground. Quickas lightning the crab picked them up and carried a quantity of them intoher house, but when she came up for another the monkey sprang on her,and treated her so badly that he left her for dead. When he had beatenher till his arm ached he went his way.It was a lucky thing for the poor crab that she had some friends to cometo her help or she certainly would have died then and there. The waspflew to her, and took her back to bed and looked after her, and then heconsulted with a rice mortar and an egg which had fallen out of a nestnear by, and they agreed that when the monkey returned, as he wassure to do, to steal the rest of the fruit, that they would punish himseverely for the manner in which he had behaved to the crab. So themortar climbed up to the beam over the front door, and the egg layquite still on the ground, while the wasp set down the water bucket in acorner. Then the crab dug itself a deep hole in the ground, so that noteven the tip of her claws might be seen.Soon after everything was ready the monkey jumped down from his tree,and creeping to the door began a long hypocritical speech, asking pardonfor all he had done. He waited for an answer of some sort, but nonecame. He listened, but all was still. then he peeped, and saw no one.then he went in. He peered about for the crab, but in vain. however, hiseyes fell on the egg, which he snatched up and set on the fire. But ina moment the egg had burst into a thousand pieces, and its sharp shellstruck him in the face and scratched him horribly. Smarting with pain heran to the bucket and stooped down to throw some water over his head. Ashe stretched out his hand up started the wasp and stung him on the nose.The monkey shrieked and ran to the door, but as he passed through downfell the mortar and struck him dead. 'After that the crab lived happilyfor many years, and at length died in peace under her own kaki tree.