Once upon a time there lived a king who had a daughter just fifteenyears old. And what a daughter!Even the mothers who had daughters of their own could not help allowingthat the princess was much more beautiful and graceful than any ofthem. and, as for the fathers, if one of them ever beheld her byaccident he could talk of nothing else for a whole day afterwards.Of course the king, whose name was Balancin, was the complete slave ofhis little girl from the moment he lifted her from the arms of her deadmother. indeed, he did not seem to know that there was anyone else inthe world to love.Now Diamantina, for that was her name, did not reach her fifteenthbirthday without proposals for marriage from every country underheaven. but be the suitor who he might, the king always said him nay.Behind the palace a large garden stretched away to the foot of somehills, and more than one river flowed through. Hither the princesswould come each evening towards sunset, attended by her ladies, andgather herself the flowers that were to adorn her rooms. She alsobrought with her a pair of scissors to cut off the dead blooms, and abasket to put them in, so that when the sun rose next morning he mightsee nothing unsightly. When she had finished this task she would takea walk through the town, so that the poor people might have a chance ofspeaking with her, and telling her of their troubles. and then shewould seek out her father, and together they would consult over thebest means of giving help to those who needed it.But what has all this to do with the White Slipper? my readers will ask.Have patience, and you will see.Next to his daughter, Balancin loved hunting, and it was his custom tospend several mornings every week chasing the boars which abounded inthe mountains a few miles from the city. One day, rushing downhill asfast as he could go, he put his foot into a hole and fell, rolling intoa rocky pit of brambles. The king's wounds were not very severe, buthis face and hands were cut and torn, while his feet were in a worseplight still, for, instead of proper hunting boots, he only woresandals, to enable him to run more swiftly.In a few days the king was as well as ever, and the signs of thescratches were almost gone. but one foot still remained very sore,where a thorn had pierced deeply and had festered. The best doctors inthe kingdom treated it with all their skill. they bathed, andpoulticed, and bandaged, but it was in vain. The foot only grew worseand worse, and became daily more swollen and painful.After everyone had tried his own particular cure, and found it fail,there came news of a wonderful doctor in some distant land who hadhealed the most astonishing diseases. On inquiring, it was found thathe never left the walls of his own city, and expected his patients tocome to see him. but, by dint of offering a large sum of money, theking persuaded the famous physician to undertake the journey to his owncourt.On his arrival the doctor was led at once into the king's presence, andmade a careful examination of his foot.'Alas! your majesty,' he said, when he had finished, 'the wound isbeyond the power of man to heal. but though I cannot cure it, I can atleast deaden the pain, and enable you to walk without so muchsuffering.''Oh, if you can only do that,' cried the king, 'I shall be grateful toyou for life! Give your own orders. they shall be obeyed.''Then let your majesty bid the royal shoemaker make you a shoe ofgoat skin very loose and comfortable, while I prepare a varnish topaint over it of which I alone have the secret!' So saying, the doctorbowed himself out, leaving the king more cheerful and hopeful than hehad been for long.The days passed very slowly with him during the making of the shoe andthe preparation of the varnish, but on the eighth morning the physicianappeared, bringing with him the shoe in a case. He drew it out to slipon the king's foot, and over the goat skin he had rubbed a polish sowhite that the snow itself was not more dazzling.'While you wear this shoe you will not feel the slightest pain,' saidthe doctor. 'For the balsam with which I have rubbed it inside and outhas, besides its healing balm, the quality of strengthening thematerial it touches, so that, even were your majesty to live a thousandyears, you would find the slipper just as fresh at the end of that timeas it is now.'The king was so eager to put it on that he hardly gave the physiciantime to finish. He snatched it from the case and thrust his foot intoit, nearly weeping for joy when he found he could walk and run aseasily as any beggar boy.'What can I give you?' he cried, holding out both hands to the man whohad worked this wonder. 'Stay with me, and I will heap on you richesgreater than ever you dreamed of.' But the doctor said he would acceptnothing more than had been agreed on, and must return at once to hisown country, where many sick people were awaiting him. So kingBalancin had to content himself with ordering the physician to betreated with royal honours, and desiring that an escort should attendhim on his journey home.For two years everything went smoothly at court, and to king Balancinand his daughter the sun no sooner rose than it seemed time for it toset. Now, the king's birthday fell in the month of June, and as theweather happened to be unusually fine, he told the princess tocelebrate it in any way that pleased her. Diamantina was very fond ofbeing on the river, and she was delighted at this chance of delightingher tastes. She would have a merry making such as never had been seenbefore, and in the evening, when they were tired of sailing and rowing,there should be music and dancing, plays and fireworks. At the veryend, before the people went home, every poor person should be given aloaf of bread and every girl who was to be married within the year anew dress.The great day appeared to Diamantina to be long in coming, but, likeother days, it came at last. Before the sun was fairly up in theheavens the princess, too full of excitement to stay in the palace, waswalking about the streets so covered with precious stones that you hadto shade your eyes before you could look at her. By and by a trumpetsounded, and she hurried home, only to appear again in a few momentswalking by the side of her father down to the river. Here a splendidbarge was waiting for them, and from it they watched all sorts of racesand feats of swimming and diving. When these were over the bargeproceeded up the river to the field where the dancing and concerts wereto take place, and after the prizes had been given away to the winners,and the loaves and the dresses had been distributed by the princess,they bade farewell to their guests, and turned to step into the bargewhich was to carry them back to the palace.Then a dreadful thing happened. As the king stepped on board the boatone of the sandals of the white slipper, which had got loose, caught ina nail that was sticking out, and caused the king to stumble. The painwas great, and unconsciously he turned and shook his foot, so that thesandals gave way, and in a moment the precious shoe was in the river.It had all occurred so quickly that nobody had noticed the loss of theslipper, not even the princess, whom the king's cries speedily broughtto his side.'What is the matter, dear father?' asked she. But the king could nottell her. and only managed to gasp out: 'My shoe! my shoe!' While thesailors stood round staring, thinking that his majesty had suddenlygone mad.Seeing her father's eyes fixed on the stream, Diamantina looked hastilyin that direction. There, dancing on the current, was the point ofsomething white, which became more and more distant the longer theywatched it. The king could bear the sight no more, and, besides, nowthat the healing ointment in the shoe had been removed the pain in hisfoot was as bad as ever. he gave a sudden cry, staggered, and fell overthe bulwarks into the water.In an instant the river was covered with bobbing heads all swimmingtheir fastest towards the king, who had been carried far down by theswift current. At length one swimmer, stronger than the rest, seizedhold of his tunic, and drew him to the bank, where a thousand eagerhands were ready to haul him out. He was carried, unconscious, to theside of his daughter, who had fainted with terror on seeing her fatherdisappear below the surface, and together they were place in a coachand driven to the palace, where the best doctors in the city wereawaiting their arrival.In a few hours the princess was as well as ever. but the pain, thewetting, and the shock of the accident, all told severely on the king,and for three days he lay in a high fever. Meanwhile, his daughter,herself nearly mad with grief, gave orders that the white slippershould be sought for far and wide. and so it was, but even thecleverest divers could find no trace of it at the bottom of the river.When it became clear that the slipper must have been carried out to seaby the current, Diamantina turned her thoughts elsewhere, and sentmessengers in search of the doctor who had brought relief to herfather, begging him to make another slipper as fast as possible, tosupply the place of the one which was lost. But the messengersreturned with the sad news that the doctor had died some weeks before,and, what was worse, his secret had died with him.In his weakness this intelligence had such an effect on the king thatthe physicians feared he would become as ill as before. He couldhardly be persuaded to touch food, and all night long he lay moaning,partly with pain, and partly over his own folly in not having beggedthe doctor to make him several dozens of white slippers, so that incase of accidents he might always have one to put on. However,by and by he saw that it was no use weeping and wailing, and commandedthat they should search for his lost treasure more diligently than ever.What a sight the river banks presented in those days! It seemed as ifall the people in the country were gathered on them. But this secondsearch was no more fortunate than the first, and at last the kingissued a proclamation that whoever found the missing slipper should bemade heir to the crown, and should marry the princess.Now many daughters would have rebelled at being disposed of in themanner. and it must be admitted that Diamantina's heart sank when sheheard what the king had done. Still, she loved her father so much thatshe desired his comfort more than anything else in the world, so shesaid nothing, and only bowed her head.Of course the result of the proclamation was that the river banksbecame more crowded than before. for all the princess's suitors fromdistant lands flocked to the spot, each hoping that he might be thelucky finder. Many times a shining stone at the bottom of the streamwas taken for the slipper itself, and every evening saw a band ofdripping downcast men returning homewards. But one youth alwayslingered longer than the rest, and night would still see him engaged inthe search, though his clothes stuck to his skin and his teethchattered.One day, when the king was lying on his bed racked with pain, he heardthe noise of a scuffle going on in his antechamber, and rang a goldenbell that stood by his side to summon one of his servants.'Sire,' answered the attendant, when the king inquired what was thematter, 'the noise you heard was caused by a young man from the town,who has had the impudence to come here to ask if he may measure yourmajesty's foot, so as to make you another slipper in place of the lostone.''And what have you done to the youth?' said the king.'The servants pushed him out of the palace, and, added a few blows toteach him not to be insolent,' replied the man.'Then they did very ill,' answered the king, with a frown. 'He camehere from kindness, and there was no reason to maltreat him.''Oh, my lord, he had the audacity to wish to touch your majesty'ssacred person he, a good for nothing boy, a mere shoemaker'sapprentice, perhaps! And even if he could make shoes to perfectionthey would be no use without the soothing balsam.'The king remained silent for a few moments, then he said:'Never mind. Go and fetch the youth and bring him to me. I wouldgladly try any remedy that may relieve my pain.'So, soon afterwards, the youth, who had not gone far from the palace,was caught and ushered into the king's presence.He was tall and handsome and, though he professed to make shoes, hismanners were good and modest, and he bowed low as he begged the kingnot only to allow him to take the measure of his foot, but also tosuffer him to place a healing plaster over the wound.Balancin was pleased with the young man's voice and appearance, andthought that he looked as if he knew what he was doing. So hestretched out his bad foot which the youth examined with greatattention, and then gently laid on the plaster.Very shortly the ointment began to soothe the sharp pain, and the king,whose confidence increased every moment, begged the young man to tellhim his name.'I have no parents. they died when I was six, sire,' replied the youth,modestly. 'Everyone in the town calls me Gilguerillo, because,when I was little, I went singing through the world in spite of mymisfortunes. Luckily for me I was born to be happy.''And you really think you can cure me?' asked the king.'Completely, my lord,' answered Gilguerillo.'And how long do you think it will take?''It is not an easy task. but I will try to finish it in a fortnight,'replied the youth.A fortnight seemed to the king a long time to make one slipper. But heonly said:'Do you need anything to help you?''Only a good horse, if your majesty will be kind enough to give meone,' answered Gilguerillo. And the reply was so unexpected that thecourtiers could hardly restrain their smiles, while the king staredsilently.'You shall have the horse,' he said at last, 'and I shall expect youback in a fortnight. If you fulfil your promise you know your reward.if not, I will have you flogged for your impudence.'Gilguerillo bowed, and turned to leave the palace, followed by thejeers and scoffs of everyone he met. But he paid no heed, for he hadgot what he wanted.He waited in front of the gates till a magnificent horse was led up tohim, and vaulting into the saddle with an ease which rather surprisedthe attendant, rode quickly out of the town amidst the jests of theassembled crowd, who had heard of his audacious proposal. And while heis on his way let us pause for a moment and tell who he is.Both father and mother had died before the boy was six years old. andhe had lived for many years with his uncle, whose life had been passedin the study of chemistry. He could leave no money to his nephew, ashe had a son of his own. but he taught him all he knew, and at his deadGilguerillo entered an office, where he worked for many hours daily.In his spare time, instead of playing with the other boys, he passedhours poring over books, and because he was timid and liked to be alonehe was held by everyone to be a little mad. Therefore, when it becameknown that he had promised to cure the king's foot, and had riddenaway no one knew where a roar of laughter and mockery rang throughthe town, and jeers and scoffing words were sent after him.But if they had only known what were Gilguerillo's thoughts they wouldhave thought him madder than ever.The real truth was that, on the morning when the princess had walkedthrough the streets before making holiday on the river Gilguerillo hadseen her from his window, and had straightway fallen in love with her.Of course he felt quite hopeless. It was absurd to imagine that theapothecary's nephew could ever marry the king's daughter. so he did hisbest to forget her, and study harder than before, till the royalproclamation suddenly filled him with hope. When he was free he nolonger spent the precious moments poring over books, but, like therest, he might have been seen wandering along the banks of the river,or diving into the stream after something that lay glistening in theclear water, but which turned out to be a white pebble or a bit ofglass.And at the end he understood that it was not by the river that he wouldwin the princess. and, turning to his books for comfort, he studiedharder than ever.There is an old proverb which says: 'Everything comes to him who knowshow to wait.' It is not all men who know hot to wait, any more than itis all men who can learn by experience. but Gilguerillo was one of thefew and instead of thinking his life wasted because he could not havethe thing he wanted most, he tried to busy himself in other directions.So, one day, when he expected it least, his reward came to him.He happened to be reading a book many hundreds of years old, which toldof remedies for all kinds of diseases. Most of them, he knew, weremerely invented by old women, who sought to prove themselves wiser thanother people. but at length he came to something which caused him tosit up straight in his chair, and made his eyes brighten. This was thedescription of a balsam  which would cure every kind of sore orwound distilled from a plant only to be found in a country so distantthat it would take a man on foot two months to go and come back again.When I say that the book declared that the balsam could heal every sortof sore or wound, there were a few against which it was powerless, andit gave certain signs by which these might be known. This was thereason why Gilguerillo demanded to see the king's foot before he wouldundertake to cure it. and to obtain admittance he gave out that he wasa shoemaker. However, the dreaded signs were absent, and his heartbounded at the thought that the princess was within his reach.Perhaps she was. but a great deal had to be accomplished yet, and hehad allowed himself a very short time in which to do it.He spared his horse only so much as was needful, yet it took him sixdays to reach the spot where the plant grew. A thick wood lay in frontof him, and, fastening the bridle tightly to a tree, he flung himselfon his hands and knees and began to hunt for the treasure. Many timehe fancied it was close to him, and many times it turned out to besomething else. but, at last, when light was fading, and he had almostgiven up hope, he came upon a large bed of the plant, right under hisfeet! Trembling with joy, he picked every scrap he could see, andplaced it in his wallet. Then, mounting his horse, he galloped quicklyback towards the city.It was night when he entered the gates, and the fifteen days allottedwere not up till the next day. His eyes were heavy with sleep, and hisbody ached with the long strain, but, without pausing to rest, hekindled a fire on is hearth, and quickly filling a pot with water,threw in the herbs and left them to boil. After that he lay down andslept soundly.The sun was shining when he awoke, and he jumped up and ran to the pot.The plant had disappeared and in its stead was a thick syrup, just asthe book had said there would be. He lifted the syrup out with aspoon, and after spreading it in the sun till it was partly dry, pouredit into a small flask of crystal. He next washed himself thoroughly,and dressed himself, in his best clothes, and putting the flask in hispocket, set out for the palace, and begged to see the king withoutdelay.Now Balancin, whose foot had been much less painful since Gilguerillohad wrapped it in the plaster, was counting the days to the young man'sreturn. and when he was told Gilguerillo was there, ordered him to beadmitted at once. As he entered, the king raised himself eagerly onhis pillows, but his face fell when he saw no signs of a slipper.'You have failed, then?' he said, throwing up his hands in despair.'I hope not, your majesty. I think not,' answered the youth. Anddrawing the flask from his pocket, he poured two or three drops on thewound.'Repeat this for three nights, and you will find yourself cured,' saidhe. And before the king had time to thank him he had bowed himself out.Of course the news soon spread through the city, and men and womennever tired of calling Gilguerillo an impostor, and prophesying thatthe end of the three days would see him in prison, if not on thescaffold. But Gilguerillo paid no heed to their hard words, and nomore did the king, who took care that no hand but his own should put onthe healing balsam.On the fourth morning the king awoke and instantly stretched out hiswounded foot that he might prove the truth or falsehood ofGilguerillo's remedy. The wound was certainly cured on that side, buthow about the other? Yes, that was cured also. and not even a scar wasleft to show where it had been!Was ever any king so happy as Balancin when he satisfied himself ofthis?Lightly as a deer he jumped from his bed, and began to turn head overheels and to perform all sorts of antics, so as to make sure that hisfoot was in truth as well as it looked. And when he was quite tired hesent for his daughter, and bade the courtiers bring the lucky young manto his room.'He is really young and handsome,' said the princess to herself,heaving a sigh of relief that it was not some dreadful old man who hadhealed her father. and while the king was announcing to his courtiersthe wonderful cure that had been made, Diamantina was thinking that ifGilguerillo looked so well in his common dress, how much improved bythe splendid garments of a king' son. However, she held her peace, andonly watched with amusement when the courtiers, knowing there was nohelp for it, did homage and obeisance to the chemist's boy.Then they brought to Gilguerillo a magnificent tunic of green velvetbordered with gold, and a cap with three white plumes stuck in it. andat the sight of him so arrayed, the princess fell in love with him in amoment. The wedding was fixed to take place in eight days, and at theball afterwards nobody danced so long or so lightly as king Balancin.Linnet.The Magic BookThere was once an old couple named Peder and Kirsten who had an onlyson called Hans. From the time he was a little boy he had been toldthat on his sixteenth birthday he must go out into the world and servehis apprenticeship. So, one fine summer morning, he started off toseek his fortune with nothing but the clothes he wore on his back.For many hours he trudged on merrily, now and then stopping to drinkfrom some clear spring or to pick some ripe fruit from a tree. Thelittle wild creatures peeped at him from beneath the bushes, and henodded and smiled, and wished them 'Good morning.' After he had beenwalking for some time he met an old white bearded man who was comingalong the footpath. The boy would not step aside, and the man wasdetermined not to do so either, so they ran against one another with abump.'It seems to me,' said the old fellow, 'that a boy should give way toan old man.''The path is for me as well as for you,' answered young Hans saucily,for he had never been taught politeness.'Well, that's true enough,' answered the other mildly. 'And where areyou going?''I am going into service,' said Hans.'Then you can come and serve me,' replied the man.Well, Hans could do that. but what would his wages be?'Two pounds a year, and nothing to do but keep some rooms clean,' saidthe new comer.This seemed to Hans to be easy enough. so he agreed to enter the oldman's service, and they set out together. On their way they crossed adeep valley and came to a mountain, where the man opened a trapdoor,and bidding Hans follow him, he crept in and began to go down a longflight of steps. When they got to the bottom Hans saw a large numberof rooms lit by many lamps and full of beautiful things. While he waslooking round the old man said to him:'Now you know what you have to do. You must keep these rooms clean,and strew sand on the floor every day. Here is a table where you willalways find food and drink, and there is your bed. You see there are agreat many suits of clothes hanging on the wall, and you may wear anyyou please. but remember that you are never to open this locked door.If you do ill will befall you. Farewell, for I am going away again andcannot tell when I may return.No sooner had the old man disappeared than Hans sat down to a goodmeal, and after that went to bed and slept until the morning. At firsthe could not remember what had happened to him, but by and by he jumpedup and went into all the rooms, which he examined carefully.'How foolish to bid me to put sand on the floors,' he thought, 'whenthere is nobody here by myself! I shall do nothing of the sort.' Andso he shut the doors quickly, and only cleaned and set in order his ownroom. And after the first few days he felt that that was unnecessarytoo, because no one came there to see if the rooms where clean or not.At last he did no work at all, but just sat and wondered what wasbehind the locked door, till he determined to go and look for himself.The key turned easily in the lock. Hans entered, half frightened atwhat he was doing, and the first thing he beheld was a heap of bones.That was not very cheerful. and he was just going out again when hiseye fell on a shelf of books. Here was a good way of passing the time,he thought, for he was fond of reading, and he took one of the booksfrom the shelf. It was all about magic, and told you how you couldchange yourself into anything in the world you liked. Could anythingbe more exciting or more useful? So he put it in his pocket, and ranquickly away out of the mountain by a little door which had been leftopen.When he got home his parents asked him what he had been doing and wherehe had got the fine clothes he wore.'Oh, I earned them myself,' answered he.'You never earned them in this short time,' said his father. 'Be offwith you. I won't keep you here. I will have no thieves in my house!''Well I only came to help you,' replied the boy sulkily. 'Now I'll beoff, as you wish. but to morrow morning when you rise you will see agreat dog at the door. Do not drive it away, but take it to the castleand sell it to the duke, and they will give you ten dollars for it.only you must bring the strap you lead it with, back to the house.'Sure enough the next day the dog was standing at the door waiting to belet in. The old man was rather afraid of getting into trouble, but hiswife urged him to sell the dog as the boy had bidden him, so he took itup to the castle and sold it to the duke for ten dollars. But he didnot forget to take off the strap with which he had led the animal, andto carry it home. When he got there old Kirsten met him at the door.'Well, Peder, and have you sold the dog?' asked she.'Yes, Kirsten. and I have brought back ten dollars, as the boy toldus,' answered Peder.'Ay! but that's fine!' said his wife. 'Now you see what one gets bydoing as one is bid. if it had not been for me you would have driventhe dog away again, and we should have lost the money. After all, Ialways know what is best.''Nonsense!' said her husband. 'women always think they know best. Ishould have sold the dog just the same whatever you had told me. Putthe money away in a safe place, and don't talk so much.'The next day Hans came again. but though everything had turned out ashe had foretold, he found that his father was still not quite satisfied.'Be off with you!' said he, 'you'll get us into trouble.''I haven't helped you enough yet,' replied the boy. 'To morrow therewill come a great fat cow, as big as the house. Take it to the king'spalace and you'll get as much as a thousand dollars for it. Only youmust unfasten the halter you lead it with and bring it back, and don'treturn by the high road, but through the forest.'The next day, when the couple rose, they saw an enormous head lookingin at their bedroom window, and behind it was a cow which was nearly asbig as their hut. Kirsten was wild with joy to think of the money thecow would bring them.'But how are you going to put the rope over her head?' asked she.'Wait and you'll see, mother,' answered her husband. Then Peder tookthe ladder that led up to the hayloft and set it against the cow'sneck, and he climbed up and slipped the rope over her head. When hehad made sure that the noose was fast they started for the palace, andmet the king himself walking in his grounds.'I heard that the princess was going to be married,' said Peder, 'soI've brought your majesty a cow which is bigger than any cow that wasever seen. Will your majesty deign to buy it?'The king had, in truth, never seen so large a beast, and he willinglypaid the thousand dollars, which was the price demanded. but Pederremembered to take off the halter before he left. After he was gonethe king sent for the butcher and told him to kill the animal for thewedding feast. The butcher got ready his pole axe. but just as he wasgoing to strike, the cow changed itself into a dove and flew away, andthe butcher stood staring after it as if he were turned to stone.However, as the dove could not be found, he was obliged to tell theking what had happened, and the king in his turn despatched messengersto capture the old man and bring him back. But Peder was safe in thewoods, and could not be found. When at last he felt the danger wasover, and he might go home, Kirsten nearly fainted with joy at thesight of all the money he brought with him.'Now that we are rich people we must build a bigger house,' cried she.and was vexed to find that Peder only shook his head and said: 'No. ifthey did that people would talk, and say they had got their wealth byill doing.'A few mornings later Hans came again.'Be off before you get us into trouble,' said his father. 'So far themoney has come right enough, but I don't trust it.''Don't worry over that, father,' said Hans. 'To morrow you will find ahorse outside by the gate. Ride it to market and you will get athousand dollars for it. Only don't forget to loosen the bridle whenyou sell it.'Well, in the morning there was the horse. Kirsten had never seen sofind an animal. 'Take care it doesn't hurt you, Peder,' said she.'Nonsense, wife,' answered he crossly. 'When I was a lad I lived withhorses, and could ride anything for twenty miles round.' But that wasnot quite the truth, for he had never mounted a horse in his life.Still, the animal was quiet enough, so Peder got safely to market onits back. There he met a man who offered nine hundred and ninety ninedollars for it, but Peder would take nothing less than a thousand. Atlast there came an old, grey bearded man who looked at the horse andagreed to buy it. but the moment he touched it the horse began to kickand plunge. 'I must take the bridle off,' said Peder. 'It is not tobe sold with the animal as is usually the case.''I'll give you a hundred dollars for the bridle,' said the old man,taking out his purse.'No, I can't sell it,' replied Hans's father.'Five hundred dollars!''No.''A thousand!'At this splendid offer Peder's prudence gave way. it was a shame to letso much money go. So he agreed to accept it. But he could hardly holdthe horse, it became so unmanageable. So he gave the animal in chargeto the old man, and went home with his two thousand dollars.Kirsten, of course, was delighted at this new piece of good fortune,and insisted that the new house should be built and land bought. Thistime Peder consented, and soon they had quite a fine farm.Meanwhile the old man rode off on his new purchase, and when he came toa smithy he asked the smith to forge shoes for the horse. The smithproposed that they should first have a drink together, and the horsewas tied up by the spring whilst they went indoors. The day was hot,and both men were thirsty, and, besides, they had much to say. and sothe hours slipped by and found them still talking. Then the servantgirl came out to fetch a pail of water, and, being a kind  heartedlass, she gave some to the horse to drink. What was her surprise whenthe animal said to her: 'Take off my bridle and you will save my life.''I dare not,' said she. 'your master will be so angry.''He cannot hurt you,' answered the horse, 'and you will save my life.'At that she took off the bridle. but nearly fainted with astonishmentwhen the horse turned into a dove and flew away just as the old mancame out of the house. Directly he saw what had happened he changedhimself into a hawk and flew after the dove. Over the woods and fieldsthey went, and at length they reached a king's palace surrounded bybeautiful gardens. The princess was walking with her attendants in therose garden when the dove turned itself into a gold ring and fell ather feet.'Why, here is a ring!' she cried, 'where could it have come from?' Andpicking it up she put it on her finger. As she did so the hill manlost his power over Hans for of course you understand that it was hewho had been the dog, the cow, the horse and the dove.'Well, that is really strange,' said the princess. 'It fits me asthough it had been made for me!'Just at that moment up came the king.'Look at what I have found!' cried his daughter.'Well, that is not worth much, my dear,' said he. 'Besides, you haverings enough, I should think.''Never mind, I like it,' replied the princess.But as soon as she was alone, to her amazement, the ring suddenly lefther finger and became a man. You can imagine how frightened she was,as, indeed, anybody would have been. but in an instant the man became aring again, and then turned back to a man, and so it went on for sometime until she began to get used to these sudden changes.'I am sorry I frightened you,' said Hans, when he thought he couldsafely speak to the princess without making her scream. 'I took refugewith you because the old hill man, whom I have offended, was trying tokill me, and here I am safe.''You had better stay here then,' said the princess. So Hans stayed,and he and she became good friends. though, of course, he only became aman when no one else was present.This was all very well. but, one day, as they were talking together,the king happened to enter the room, and although Hans quickly changedhimself into a ring again it was too late.The king was terribly angry.'So this is why you have refused to marry all the kings and princes whohave sought your hand?' he cried.And, without waiting for her to speak, he commanded that his daughtershould be walled up in the summer house and starved to death with herlover.That evening the poor princess, still wearing her ring, was put intothe summer house with enough food to last for three days, and the doorwas bricked up. But at the end of a week or two the king thought itwas time to give her a grand funeral, in spite of her bad behaviour,and he had the summer house opened. He could hardly believe his eyeswhen he found that the princess was not there, nor Hans either.Instead, there lay at his feet a large hole, big enough for two peopleto pass through.Now what had happened was this.When the princess and Hans had given up hope, and cast themselves downon the ground to die, they fell down this hole, and right through theearth as well, and at last they tumbled into a castle built of puregold at the other side of the world, and there they lived happily. Butof this, of course, the king knew nothing.'Will anyone go down and see where the passage leads to?' he asked,turning to his guards and courtiers. 'I will reward splendidly the manwho is brave enough to explore it.'For a long time nobody answered. The hole was dark and deep, and if ithad a bottom no one could see it. At length a soldier, who was acareless sort of fellow, offered himself for the service, andcautiously lowered himself into the darkness. But in a moment he, too,fell down, down, down. Was he going to fall for ever, he wondered!Oh, how thankful he was in the end to reach the castle, and to meet theprincess and Hans, looking quite well and not at all as if they hadbeen starved. They began to talk, and the soldier told them that theking was very sorry for the way he had treated his daughter, and wishedday and night that he could have her back again.Then they all took ship and sailed home, and when they came to theprincess's country, Hans disguised himself as the sovereign of aneighbouring kingdom, and went up to the palace alone. He was given ahearty welcome by the king, who prided himself on his hospitality, anda banquet was commanded in his honour. That evening, whilst they satdrinking their wine, Hans said to the king:'I have heard the fame of your majesty's wisdom, and I have travelledfrom far to ask your counsel. A man in my country has buried hisdaughter alive because she loved a youth who was born a peasant. Howshall I punish this unnatural father, for it is left to me to givejudgment?'The king, who was still truly grieved for his daughter's loss, answeredquickly:'Burn him alive, and strew his ashes all over the kingdom.'Hans looked at him steadily for a moment, and then threw off hisdisguise.'You are the man,' said he. 'and I am he who loved your daughter, andbecame a gold ring on her finger. She is safe, and waiting not farfrom here. but you have pronounced judgment on yourself.'Then the king fell on his knees and begged for mercy. and as he had inother respects been a good father, they forgave him. The wedding ofHans and the princess was celebrated with great festivities whichlasted a month. As for the hill man he intended to be present. butwhilst he was walking along a street which led to the palace a loosestone fell on his head and killed him. So Hans and the princess livedin peace and happiness all their days, and when the old king died theyreigned instead of him.(From AEventyr fra Zylland samlede og optegnede af Tang Kristensen.Translated from the Danish by Mrs. Skavgaard Pedersen.)The Coming of FinnIt was the Eve of Samhain, which we Christians call All Hallows' Eve.The King of Ireland, Conn, the Hundred Fighter, sat at supper in hispalace at Tara. All his chiefs and mighty men were with him. On hisright hand was his only son, Art the Solitary, so called because he hadno brothers. The sons of Morna, who kept the boy Finn out of his rightsand were at the time trying to kill him if they could, were here too.Chief amongst them was Gaul mac Morna, a huge and strong warrior, andCaptain of all the Fians ever since that battle in which Finn's fatherhad been killed.And Gaul's men were with him. The great long table was spread forsupper. A thousand wax candles shed their light through the chamber, andcaused the vessels of gold, silver, and bronze to shine. Yet, though itwas a great feast, none of these warriors seemed to care about eating ordrinking. every face was sad, and there was little conversation, and nomusic. It seemed as if they were expecting some calamity. Conn'ssceptre, which was a plain staff of silver, lay beside him on the table,and there was a canopy of bright bronze over his head. Gaul mac Morna,Captain of the Fians, sat at the other end of the long table. Everywarrior wore a bright banqueting mantle of silk or satin, scarlet orcrimson, blue, green, or purple, fastened on the breast either with agreat brooch or with a pin of gold or silver. Yet, though their raimentwas bright and gay, and though all the usual instruments of festivitywere there, and a thousand tall candles shed their light over the scene,no one looked happy.Then was heard a low sound like thunder, and the earth seemed totremble, and after that they distinctly heard a footfall like the slow,deliberate tread of a giant. These footfalls sent a chill into everyheart, and every face, gloomy before, was now pale.The King leaned past his son Art the Solitary, and said to a certainDruid who sat beside Art, "Is this the son of Midna come before histime?" "It is not," said the Druid, "but it is the man who is to conquerMidna. One is coming to Tara this night before whose glory all otherglory shall wax dim."Shortly after that they heard the voices of the doorkeepers raised incontention, as if they would repel from the hall someone who wished toenter, then a slight scuffle, and after that a strange figure enteredthe chamber. He was dressed in the skins of wild beasts, and wore overhis shoulders a huge thick cloak of wild boars' skins, fastened on thebreast with a white tusk of the same animal. He wore a shield and twospears. Though of huge stature his face was that of a boy, smooth on thecheeks and lips. It was white and ruddy, and very handsome. His hair waslike refined gold. A light seemed to go out from him, before which thecandles burned dim. It was Finn.He stood in the doorway, and cried out in a strong and sonorous, butmusical, voice:"O Conn the Hundred Fighter, son of Felimy, the righteous son of Tuthalthe legitimate, O King of the Kings of Erin, a wronged and disinheritedyouth, possessing nowhere one rood of his patrimony, a wanderer and anoutlaw, a hunter of the wildernesses and mountains, claims hospitalityof thee, illustrious prince, on the eve of the great festival ofSamhain.""Thou art welcome whoever thou art," answered the King, "and doublywelcome because thou art unfortunate. I think, such is thy face andform, that thou art the son of some mighty king on whom disaster hasfallen undeserved. The high gods of Erin grant thee speedy restorationand strong vengeance of thy many wrongs. Sit here, O noble youth,between me and my only son, Art, heir to my kingdom."An attendant took his weapons from the youth and hung them on the wallwith the rest, and Finn sat down between the King of Ireland and hisonly son. Choice food was set before him, which he ate, and old ale,which he drank. From the moment he entered no one thought of anythingbut of him. When Finn had made an end of eating and drinking, he said tothe King:"O illustrious prince, though it is not right for a guest to even seemto observe aught that may be awry, or not as it should be, in the hallof his entertainer, yet the sorrow of a kindly host is a sorrow, too, tohis guest, and sometimes unawares the man of the house finds succour andhelp in the stranger. There is sorrow in this chamber of festivity. Ifanyone who is dear to thee and thy people happens to be dead, I can donothing. But I say it, and it is not a vain boast, that even if a personis at the point of death, I can restore him to life and health, forthere are marvellous powers of life giving in my two hands."Conn the Hundred Fighter answered, "Our grief is not such as yousuppose. and why should I not tell a cause of shame, which is known farand wide? This, then, is the reason of our being together, and the gloomwhich is over us. There is a mighty enchanter whose dwelling is in thehaunted mountains of Slieve Gullion in the north. His name is Allen, sonof Midna, and his enmity to me is as great as his power. Once everyyear, at this season, it is his pleasure to burn Tara. Descending out ofhis wizard haunts, he standeth over against the city and shoots balls offire out of his mouth against it, till it is consumed. Then he goes awaymocking and triumphant. This annual building of Tara, only to beannually consumed, is a shame to me, and till this enchanter declaredwar against me, I have lived without reproach.""But," said Finn, "how is it that thy young warriors, valiant and swift,do not repel him, or kill him?""Alas!" said Conn, "all our valour is in vain against this man. Ourhosts encompass Tara on all sides, keeping watch and ward when the fatalnight comes. Then the son of Midna plays on his Druidic instrument ofmusic, on his magic pipe and his magic lyre, and as the fairy musicfalls on our ears, our eyelids grow heavy, and soon all subside upon thegrass in deep slumber. So comes this man against the city and shoots hisfire balls against it, and utterly consumes it. Nine years he has burntTara in that manner, and this is the tenth. At midnight to night he willcome and do the same. Last year (though it was a shame to me that I, whoam the high King over all Ireland, should not be able myself to defendTara) I summoned Gaul mac Morna and all the Fians to my assistance. Theycame, but the pipe and lyre of the son of Midna prevailed over them too,so that Tara was burned as at other times. Nor have we any reason tobelieve that the son of Midna will not burn the city again to night, ashe did last year. All the women and children have been sent out of Tarathis day. We are only men of war here, waiting for the time. That, Onoble youth, is why we are sad. The 'Pillars of Tara' are broken, andthe might of the Fians is as nought before the power of this man.""What shall be my reward if I kill this man and save Tara?" asked Finn."Thy inheritance," answered the King, "be it great or small, and whetherit lies in Ireland or beyond Ireland. and for securities I give you myson Art and Gaul mac Morna and the Chief of the Fians."Gaul and the captains of the Fianna consented to that arrangement,though reluctantly, for their minds misgave them as to who the greatyouth might be.After that all arose and armed themselves and ringed Tara round withhorse and foot, and thrice Conn the Hundred Fighter raised his awfulregal voice, enjoining vigilance upon his people, and thrice Gaul macMorna did the same, addressing the Fians, and after that they filledtheir ears with wax and wool, and kept a stern and fierce watch, andmany of them thrust the points of their swords into their flesh.Now Finn was alone in the banqueting chamber after the rest had goneout, and he washed his face and his hands in pure water, and he tookfrom the bag that was at his girdle the instruments of divination andmagic, which had been his father's, and what use he made of them is notknown. but ere long a man stood before him, holding a spear in one handand a blue mantle in the other. There were twenty nails of gold ofArabia in the spear. The nails glittered like stars, and twinkled withlive light as stars do in a frosty night, and the blade of it quiveredlike a tongue of white fire. From haft to blade point that spear wasalive. There were voices in it too, and the war tunes of the enchantedraces of Erin, whom they called the Tuatha De Danan, sounded from it.The mantle, too, was a wonder, for innumerable stars twinkled in theblue, and the likeness of clouds passed through it. The man gave thesethings to Finn, and when he had instructed him in their use, he was notseen.Then Finn arose and armed himself, and took the magic spear and mantleand went out. There was a ring of flame round Tara that night, for theFians and the warriors of Conn had torches in their hands, and all theroyal buildings of Tara showed clear in the light, and also the darkserpentine course of the Boyne, which flowed past Tara on the north. andthere, standing silent and alert, were the innumerable warriors of allErin, with spear and shield, keeping watch and ward against the son ofMidna, also the Four Pillars of Tara in four dense divisions around thehigh King, even Conn the Hundred Fighter.Finn stood with his back to the palace, which was called theHouse of the going round of Mead, between the palace and Conn, and hegrasped the magic spear strongly with one hand and the mantle with theother.As midnight drew nigh, he heard far away in the north, out of themountains of Slieve Gullion, a fairy tune played, soft, low, and slow,as if on a silver flute. and at the same time the roar of Conn theHundred Fighter, and the voice of Gaul like thunder, and the responsiveshouts of the captains, and the clamour of the host, for the hostshouted all together, and clashed their swords against their shields infierce defiance, when in spite of all obstructions the fairy music ofthe enchanter began to steal into their souls. That shout was heard allover Ireland, echoing from sea to sea, and the hollow buildings of Tarareverberated to the uproar. Yet through it all could be heard the low,slow, delicious music that came from Slieve Gullion. Finn put the pointof the spear to his forehead. It burned him like fire, yet his stoutheart did not fail. Then the roar of the host slowly faded away as in adream, though the captains were still shouting, and two thirds of thetorches fell to the ground. And now, succeeding the flute music,sounded the music of a stringed instrument exceedingly sweet. Finnpressed the cruel spear head closer to his forehead, and saw every torchfall, save one which wavered as if held by a drunken man, and beneath ita giant figure that reeled and tottered and strove in vain to keep itsfeet. It was Conn the Hundred Fighter. As he fell there was a roar as ofmany waters. it was the ocean mourning for the high King's fall. Finnpassed through the fallen men and stood alone on the dark hill side. Heheard the feet of the enchanter splashing through the Boyne, and saw hishuge form ascending the slopes of Tara. When the enchanter saw that allwas silent and dark there he laughed and from his mouth blew a redfire ball at the Teck Midcuarta, which he was accustomed first to set inflames. Finn caught the fire ball in the magic mantle. The enchanterblew a second and a third, and Finn caught them both. The man saw thathis power over Tara was at an end, and that his magic arts had beendefeated. On the third occasion he saw Finn's face, and recognised hisconqueror. He turned to flee, and though slow was his coming, swifterthan the wind was his going, that he might recover the protection of hisenchanted palace before the "fair faced youth clad in skins" shouldovertake him. Finn let fall the mantle as he had been instructed, andpursued him, but in vain. Soon he perceived that he could not possiblyovertake the swift enchanter. Then he was aware that the magic spearstruggled in his hand like a hound in a leash. "Go, then, if thou wilt,"he said, and, poising, cast the spear from him. It shot through the darknight hissing and screaming. There was a track of fire behind it. Finnfollowed, and on the threshold of the enchanted palace he found the bodyof Midna. He was quite dead, with the blood pouring through a wound inthe middle of his back. but the spear was gone. Finn drew his sword andcut off the enchanter's head, and returned with it to Tara. When he cameto the spot where he had dropped the mantle it was not seen, but smokeand flame issued there from a hole in the ground. That hole was twentyfeet deep in the earth, and at the bottom of it there was a fire alwaysfrom that night, and it was never extinguished. It was called the fireof the son of Midna. It was in a depression on the north side of thehill of Tara, called the Glen of the Mantle, Glen a Brat.Finn, bearing the head, passed through the sleepers into the palace andspiked the head on his own spear, and drove the spear end into theground at Conn's end of the great hall. Then the sickness and faintnessof death came upon Finn, also a great horror and despair overshadowedhim, so that he was about to give himself up for utterly lost. Yet herecalled one of his marvellous attributes, and approaching a silvervessel, into which pure water ever flowed and which was always full, hemade a cup with his two hands and, lifting it to his mouth, drank, andthe blood began to circulate in his veins, and strength returned to hislimbs, and the cheerful hue of rosy health to his cheeks.Having rested himself sufficiently he went forth and shouted to thesleeping host, and called the captains by their names, beginning withConn. They awoke and rose up, though dazed and stupid, for it wasdifficult for any man, no matter how he had stopped his ears, to avoidhearing Finn when he sent forth his voice of power. They wereastonished to find that Tara was still standing, for though the nightwas dark, the palaces and temples, all of hewn timber, were brilliantlycoloured and of many hues, for in those days men delighted in splendidcolours.When the captains came together Finn said, "I have slain Midna." "Whereis his head?" they asked, not because they disbelieved him, but becausethe heads of men slain in battle were always brought away for trophies."Come and see," answered Finn. Conn and his only son and Gaul mac Mornafollowed the young hero into the Teck Midcuarta, where the spear longwaxen candles were still burning, and when they saw the head of Midnaimpaled there at the end of the hall, the head of the man whom theybelieved to be immortal and not to be wounded or conquered, they werefilled with great joy, and praised their deliverer and paid him manycompliments."Who art thou, O brave youth?" said Conn. "Surely thou art the son ofsome great king or champion, for heroic feats like thine are notperformed by the sons of inconsiderable and unknown men."Then Finn flung back his cloak of wild boars' skins, and holding hisfather's treasure bag in his hand before them all, cried in a loudvoice:"I am Finn, the son of Cool, the son of Trenmor, the son of Basna. I amhe whom the sons of Morna have been seeking to destroy from the timethat I was born. and here to night, O King of the Kings of Erin, I claimthe fulfilment of thy promise, and the restoration of my inheritance,which is the Fian leadership of Fail." Thereupon Gaul mac Morna put hisright hand into Finn's, and became his man. Then his brothers and hissons, and the sons of his brothers, did so in succession, and after thatall the chief men of the Fians did the same, and that night Finn wassolemnly and surely installed in the Fian leadership of Erin, and put inpossession of all the woods and forests and waste places, and all thehills and mountains and promontories, and all the streams and rivers ofErin, and the harbours and estuaries and the harbour dues of themerchants, and all ships and boats and galleys with their mariners, andall that pertained of old time to the Fian leadership of Fail.STANDISH JAMES O'GRADY.