Celtic FolkloreMr. (William) Jones mentions that, within his memory, there were stillpeople in his neighborhood who believed that the fairies stole unbaptizedchildren and placed their own in their stead: he gives the followingstory about the farmer's wife of Dyffryn Mymbyr, near Capel Curig, andher infant:(Rhys quotes the story in Welsh, then gives the following Englishtranslation.)This woman had given birth to a healthy and vigorous child at thebeginning of the harvest, one wretched and inclement summer. As thehomestead was a considerable distance from church or chapel, and theweather so very rainy, it was neglected to baptize the child at the usualtime, that is to say, before it was eight days old.One fine day, in the middle of this wretched harvest, the mother went tothe field with the rest of the family to try to save the harvest, andleft her baby sleeping in its cradle in its grandmother's charge, who wasso aged and decrepit as to be unable to go much about. The old womanfell asleep, and, while she was in that state, the Tylwyth Tegcame in and took away the baby, placing another in its stead.Very shortly the latter began to whine and groan, so that the grandmotherawoke: she went to the cradle, where she saw a slender, wizened old manmoving restlessly and peevishly about. "Alas! alas!" said she, "the oldTylwyth have been here". and she at once blew in the horn to callthe mother home, who came without delay.As she heard the crying in the cradle, she ran towards it, and lifted thelittle one without looking at him. she hugged him, put him to her breast,and sang lullaby to him, but nothing was of any avail, as he continued,without stopping, to scream enough to break her heart. and she knew notwhat to do to calm him. At last she looked at him: she saw that he wasnot like her dear little boy, and her heart was pierced with agony. Shelooked at him again, and the more she examined him the uglier he seemedto her.She sent for her husband home from the field, and told him to search fora skilled man somewhere or other. and, after a long search, he was toldby somebody that the parson of Trawsfynyd was skilled in the secrets ofthe spirits. so he want to him.The latter bade him take a shovel and cover it with salt, and make thefigure of the cross in the salt. then to take it to the chamber where thefairy child was, and, after taking care to open the window, to place theshovel on the fire until the salt was burnt. This was done, and when thesalt had got white hot, the peevish abortion went away, seen of no one,and they found the other baby whole and unscathed at the doorstep.