him to bed, and calls three Doctors to tell her if Pinocchio is dead oralive.If the poor Marionette had dangled there much longer, all hope wouldhave been lost. Luckily for him, the Lovely Maiden with Azure Hair onceagain looked out of her window. Filled with pity at the sight of thepoor little fellow being knocked helplessly about by the wind, sheclapped her hands sharply together three times.At the signal, a loud whirr of wings in quick flight was heard and alarge Falcon came and settled itself on the window ledge."What do you command, my charming Fairy?" asked the Falcon, bending hisbeak in deep reverence (for it must be known that, after all, the LovelyMaiden with Azure Hair was none other than a very kind Fairy who hadlived, for more than a thousand years, in the vicinity of the forest)."Do you see that Marionette hanging from the limb of that giant oaktree?""I see him.""Very well. Fly immediately to him. With your strong beak, break theknot which holds him tied, take him down, and lay him softly on thegrass at the foot of the oak."The Falcon flew away and after two minutes returned, saying, "I havedone what you have commanded.""How did you find him? Alive or dead?""At first glance, I thought he was dead. But I found I was wrong, foras soon as I loosened the knot around his neck, he gave a long sigh andmumbled with a faint voice, 'Now I feel better!'"The Fairy clapped her hands twice. A magnificent Poodle appeared,walking on his hind legs just like a man. He was dressed in courtlivery. A tricorn trimmed with gold lace was set at a rakish angle overa wig of white curls that dropped down to his waist. He wore a jauntycoat of chocolate colored velvet, with diamond buttons, and with twohuge pockets which were always filled with bones, dropped thereat dinner by his loving mistress. Breeches of crimson velvet, silkstockings, and low, silver buckled slippers completed his costume. Histail was encased in a blue silk covering, which was to protect it fromthe rain."Come, Medoro," said the Fairy to him. "Get my best coach ready and setout toward the forest. On reaching the oak tree, you will find a poor,half dead Marionette stretched out on the grass. Lift him up tenderly,place him on the silken cushions of the coach, and bring him here tome."The Poodle, to show that he understood, wagged his silk covered tail twoor three times and set off at a quick pace.In a few minutes, a lovely little coach, made of glass, with lining assoft as whipped cream and chocolate pudding, and stuffed with canaryfeathers, pulled out of the stable. It was drawn by one hundred pairsof white mice, and the Poodle sat on the coachman's seat and snapped hiswhip gayly in the air, as if he were a real coachman in a hurry to getto his destination.In a quarter of an hour the coach was back. The Fairy, who was waitingat the door of the house, lifted the poor little Marionette in her arms,took him to a dainty room with mother of pearl walls, put him to bed,and sent immediately for the most famous doctors of the neighborhood tocome to her.One after another the doctors came, a Crow, and Owl, and a TalkingCricket."I should like to know, signori," said the Fairy, turning to the threedoctors gathered about Pinocchio's bed, "I should like to know if thispoor Marionette is dead or alive."At this invitation, the Crow stepped out and felt Pinocchio's pulse, hisnose, his little toe. Then he solemnly pronounced the following words:"To my mind this Marionette is dead and gone. but if, by any evilchance, he were not, then that would be a sure sign that he is stillalive!""I am sorry," said the Owl, "to have to contradict the Crow, my famousfriend and colleague. To my mind this Marionette is alive. but if, byany evil chance, he were not, then that would be a sure sign that he iswholly dead!""And do you hold any opinion?" the Fairy asked the Talking Cricket."I say that a wise doctor, when he does not know what he is talkingabout, should know enough to keep his mouth shut. However, thatMarionette is not a stranger to me. I have known him a long time!"Pinocchio, who until then had been very quiet, shuddered so hard thatthe bed shook."That Marionette," continued the Talking Cricket, "is a rascal of theworst kind."Pinocchio opened his eyes and closed them again."He is rude, lazy, a runaway."Pinocchio hid his face under the sheets."That Marionette is a disobedient son who is breaking his father'sheart!"Long shuddering sobs were heard, cries, and deep sighs. Think howsurprised everyone was when, on raising the sheets, they discoveredPinocchio half melted in tears!"When the dead weep, they are beginning to recover," said the Crowsolemnly."I am sorry to contradict my famous friend and colleague," said the Owl,"but as far as I'm concerned, I think that when the dead weep, it meansthey do not want to die."