Once upon a time there was a poor peasant. One morning beforesunrise he rode into the forest to cut wood. There, under an oak tree, hemet a very old woman. She was standing before a large iron chest, and shesaid to him, "You can redeem me and make yourself lucky! This iron chestis filled to the top with hard thalers. Take it home with you, but tell noone a solitary word about it, or it will bring you misfortune."The man was delighted to hear these words, and the old woman was alsoso friendly as to take hold of the chest and help him load it onto hiswagon. He thanked her kindly and rode back home."Mother," he said as the wagon pulled up to the door, "I'm not supposedto tell anyone, but you are my dear wife, so the promise doesn't apply toyou.""That's right, father," said the peasant's wife with curiosity. "I'llbe as silent as the grave. What is it then? Why are you coming home soearly from the woods?""That's exactly what it is!" answered the peasant. "I found a largechest full of money under an oak tree. We shall never want again. But besure to hold your tongue. Now go and fix us something good to eat. I'vehad no meat for a week now."With that they lifted the chest from the wagon and carried it into thecellar. Then the peasant's wife took a thaler out of the iron chest,bought some meat, and roasted it on the hearth. What joy! However, herneighbor had hardly smelled the delicious odor when she hurried by,sniffed, and said, "Good day, kinswoman, what are you cooking?""Oh, neighbor," replied the woman, "I can't tell anyone, but of courseyou can keep a secret. When my husband was driving into the forest to cutwood, he found a large iron chest full of money beneath an oak tree.""That is wonderful," said the kinswoman. "You told the right person,for I won't repeat it to a soul!" Then she ran back to her house.Not long afterward her brother's wife came to visit her from theneighboring farm. "Sister in law, do you know what has happened?" sheasked her. "But you must be able to hold your tongue!""Oh, as though I were a blabbermouth!""I know, and that's why I said that. Our neighbor from over there, thelittle peasant, while he was cutting wood in the forest he found a largechest of gold under an oak tree."The sister in law did indeed hold her tongue and carried the story tothe sexton's wife, and before the sun went down it had found its way tothe magistrate. He summoned the peasant before him and said, "I know itall! You stole a chest of money, and it is in your cellar. Turn over themoney!""No, my lord," answered the peasant. "That is not true. I am as poor asa church mouse and am an honest fellow. I've stolen nothing.""That will be determined, old friend," replied the magistrate. "Yourwife herself said so.""Oh, my lord, my wife is crazy.""Go now! The court meets in two weeks. At that time we will see if yourwife is crazy."The peasant did not feel well as he left the magistrate's estate, andhe thought of the words the old woman had spoken to him under the oaktree. But he did not loose courage. He hurried home, took a handful ofthalers out of the chest, hitched up his wagon, and drove into town. Therehe bought all the bread rolls that the bakers had in stock, so that he hada good dozen bushels of them to load into his wagon. He drove back homewith them and scattered the rolls all about the yard, while his wife wasin the kitchen cooking something good. He threw a few pecks of them ontothe roof and laid a few of them just outside the gate as well.Then he ran into the kitchen shouting, "Woman, you are just like allthe others! No sooner do we get a little money in our pockets than you letthe housekeeping float off into the blue! The good Lord let it rain breadrolls outside, and you won't even bend over to pick them up!""Man, are you stupid?" replied the peasant's wife. "It rainedrolls?""It certainly did. Go see for yourself," the man replied.So the peasant woman looked out the window, and when she saw the manythousands of rolls in the yard she was overjoyed. She ran outside and forthe next few hours gathered them, filling three large meat tubs.The next day the peasant said, "Listen, woman, when I was recently intown I learned that our king by mistake has recruited new soldiers withlong pointed iron beaks. They especially pick at womenfolk with them,sticking them to death. They are supposed to be coming through our villagetoday. I will tip the washtub over you, and they won't find you. Theywon't find me either. I'll hide in the attic."Filled with fear, the peasant's wife sat down, and the peasant tippedthe washtub over her. Then he went into the chicken coop, caught all thechickens and carried them into the house, then scattered barley all aroundthe washtub and on top of it. Then peck, peck, peck, the chickens ate upall the barley until not a kernel was to be found. Then they all ran backinto the yard. Then the peasant picked up the tub and said to his wife,"Mother, they have left the village!""Oh, father, I was so afraid," said the peasant's wife. "Oh, how theywere knocking: peck, peck, peck! with their long iron beaks! But I didn'tmake a sound, and they didn't find me.""Thank God, they didn't find me either!" said the peasant, and that wasthat.When the two weeks had passed, the peasant and his wife were summonedto court. The peasant denied everything, but when the judges turnedsternly to his wife, she swore by everything good and true that she hadtold her neighbor the truth."Don't believe the woman, my lords," cried the peasant. "She is not allthere upstairs!   And, mother, what else happened when I brought home thechest?""Don't you remember, father? It was the day before the good Lord let itrain bread rolls!"The judges shook their heads, and the peasant said, "Am I not right?She is crazy!""I am supposed to be crazy?" continued the woman eagerly. "Don't youremember, father? It was two days before our king's new soldiers with thelong pointed iron beaks came through the village and to our farm, andpeck, peck, peck, knocked on the washtub that you had tipped over on topof me!""Peasant, you are right!" said the judges. Your wife is not all there.Go home with her and take care that she doesn't cause any harm."Thus peasant was out of trouble, and he went back to his village withhis wife. There he let her taste his buckthorn stick, and it was so goodfor her that she never gossiped again. Little by little they used themoney in the iron chest to buy one piece of land after the other next totheir farm, and finally became very wealthy. And if they didn't die, theyare still alive.