(7) Grimm.Once upon a time when wishes came true there was a king's son who wasenchanted by an old witch, so that he was obliged to sit in a large ironstove in a wood. There he lived for many years, and no one could freehim. At last a king's daughter came into the wood. she had lost her way,and could not find her father's kingdom again. She had been wanderinground and round for nine days, and she came at last to the iron case. Avoice came from within and asked her, 'Where do you come from, and wheredo you want to go?' She answered, 'I have lost my way to my father'skingdom, and I shall never get home again.' Then the voice from the ironstove said, 'I will help you to find your home again, and that in a veryshort time, if you will promise to do what I ask you. I am a greaterprince than you are a princess, and I will marry you.' Then she grewfrightened, and thought, 'What can a young lassie do with an ironstove?' But as she wanted very much to go home to her father, shepromised to do what he wished.He said, 'You must come again, and bring a knife with you to scrape ahole in the iron.'Then he gave her someone for a guide, who walked near her and saidnothing, but he brought her in two hours to her house. There was greatjoy in the castle when the Princess came back, and the old King fell onher neck and kissed her. But she was very much troubled, and said, 'Dearfather, listen to what has befallen me! I should never have come homeagain out of the great wild wood if I had not come to an iron stove,to whom I have had to promise that I will go back to free him and marryhim!' The old King was so frightened that he nearly fainted, for she washis only daughter. So they consulted together, and determined that themiller's daughter, who was very beautiful, should take her place. Theytook her there, gave her a knife, and said she must scrape at the ironstove. She scraped for twenty four hours, but did not make the leastimpression. When the day broke, a voice called from the iron stove, 'Itseems to me that it is day outside.' Then she answered, 'It seems so tome. I think I hear my father's mill rattling.''So you are a miller's daughter! Then go away at once, and tell theKing's daughter to come.'Then she went away, and told the old King that the thing inside theiron stove would not have her, but wanted the Princess. The old King wasfrightened, and his daughter wept. But they had a swineherd's daughterwho was even more beautiful than the miller's daughter, and they gaveher a piece of gold to go to the iron stove instead of the Princess.Then she was taken out, and had to scrape for four and twenty hours, butshe could make no impression. As soon as the day broke the voice fromthe stove called out, 'It seems to be daylight outside.' Then sheanswered, 'It seems so to me too. I think I hear my father blowing hishorn.' 'So you are a swineherd's daughter! Go away at once, and let theKing's daughter come. And say to her that what I foretell shall come topass, and if she does not come everything in the kingdom shall fall intoruin, and not one stone shall be left upon another.' When the Princessheard this she began to cry, but it was no good. she had to keep herword. She took leave of her father, put a knife in her belt, and wentto the iron stove in the wood. As soon as she reached it she began toscrape, and the iron gave way and before two hours had passed she hadmade a little hole. Then she peeped in and saw such a beautiful youthall shining with gold and precious stones that she fell in love with himon the spot. So she scraped away harder than ever, and made the holeso large that he could get out. Then he said, 'You are mine, and I amthine. you are my bride and have set me free!' He wanted to take herwith him to his kingdom, but she begged him just to let her go once moreto her father. and the Prince let her go, but told her not to say morethan three words to her father, then to come back again. So she wenthome, but alas! she said MORE THAN THREE WORDS. and immediately the ironstove vanished and went away over a mountain of glass and sharp swords.But the Prince was free, and was no longer shut up in it. Then she saidgood bye to her father, and took a little money with her, and went againinto the great wood to look for the iron stove. but she could not findit. She sought it for nine days, and then her hunger became so greatthat she did not know how she could live any longer. And when it wasevening she climbed a little tree and wished that the night would notcome, because she was afraid of the wild beasts. When midnight came shesaw afar off a little light, and thought, 'Ah! if only I could reachthat!' Then she got down from the tree and went towards the light. Shecame to a little old house with a great deal of grass growing round, andstood in front of a little heap of wood. She thought, 'Alas! what am Icoming to?' and peeped through the window. but she saw nothing insideexcept big and little toads, and a table beautifully spread with roastmeats and wine, and all the dishes and drinking cups were of silver.Then she took heart and knocked. Then a fat toad called out:'Little green toad with leg like crook,Open wide the door, and lookWho it was the latch that shook.'And a little toad came forward and let her in. When she entered theyall bid her welcome, and made her sit down. They asked her how she camethere and what she wanted. Then she told everything that had happenedto her, and how, because she had exceeded her permission only to speakthree words, the stove had disappeared with the Prince. and how she hadsearched a very long time, and must wander over mountain and valley tillshe found him.Then the old toad said:'Little green toad whose leg doth twist,Go to the corner of which you wist,And bring to me the large old kist.'And the little toad went and brought out a great chest. Then they gaveher food and drink, and led her to a beautifully made bed of silk andsamite, on which she lay down and slept soundly. When the day dawned shearose, and the old toad gave her three things out of the huge chest totake with her. She would have need of them, for she had to cross a highglass mountain, three cutting swords, and a great lake. When she hadpassed these she would find her lover again. So she was given threelarge needles, a plough wheel, and three nuts, which she was to takegreat care of. She set out with these things, and when she came to theglass mountain which was so slippery she stuck the three needles behindher feet and then in front, and so got over it, and when she was on theother side put them carefully away.Then she reached the three cutting swords, and got on her plough wheeland rolled over them. At last she came to a great lake, and, when shehad crossed that, arrived at a beautiful castle. She went in and gaveherself out as a servant, a poor maid who would gladly be engaged. Butshe knew that the Prince whom she had freed from the iron stove in thegreat wood was in the castle. So she was taken on as a kitchen maid forvery small wages. Now the Prince was about to marry another princess,for he thought she was dead long ago.In the evening, when she had washed up and was ready, she felt in herpocket and found the three nuts which the old toad had given her. Shecracked one and was going to eat the kernel, when behold! there was abeautiful royal dress inside it! When the bride heard of this, she cameand begged for the dress, and wanted to buy it, saying that it was not adress for a serving maid. Then she said she would not sell it unless shewas granted one favour namely, to sleep by the Prince's door. The bridegranted her this, because the dress was so beautiful and she had so fewlike it. When it was evening she said to her bridegroom, 'That stupidmaid wants to sleep by your door.''If you are contented, I am,' he said. But she gave him a glass of winein which she had poured a sleeping draught. Then they both went to hisroom, but he slept so soundly that she could not wake him. The maid weptall night long, and said, 'I freed you in the wild wood out of the ironstove. I have sought you, and have crossed a glassy mountain, threesharp swords, and a great lake before I found you, and will you not hearme now?' The servants outside heard how she cried the whole night, andthey told their master in the morning.When she had washed up the next evening she bit the second nut, andthere was a still more beautiful dress inside. When the bride saw it shewanted to buy it also. But the maid did not want money, and asked thatshe should sleep again by the Prince's door. The bride, however, gavehim a sleeping draught, and he slept so soundly that he heard nothing.But the kitchen maid wept the whole night long, and said, 'I have freedyou in a wood and from an iron stove. I sought you and have crossed aglassy mountain, three sharp swords, and a great lake to find you, andnow you will not hear me!' The servants outside heard how she cried thewhole night, and in the morning they told their master.And when she had washed up on the third night she bit the third nut,and there was a still more beautiful dress inside that was made of puregold. When the bride saw it she wanted to have it, but the maid wouldonly give it her on condition that she should sleep for the thirdtime by the Prince's door. But the Prince took care not to drinkthe sleeping draught. When she began to weep and to say, 'Dearestsweetheart, I freed you in the horrible wild wood, and from an ironstove,' he jumped up and said, 'You are right. You are mine, and I amthine.' Though it was still night, he got into a carriage with her, andthey took the false bride's clothes away, so that she could not followthem. When they came to the great lake they rowed across, and when theyreached the three sharp swords they sat on the plough wheel, and on theglassy mountain they stuck the three needles in. So they arrived at lastat the little old house, but when they stepped inside it turned intoa large castle. The toads were all freed, and were beautiful King'schildren, running about for joy. There they were married, and theyremained in the castle, which was much larger than that of thePrincess's father's. But because the old man did not like being leftalone, they went and fetched him. So they had two kingdoms and lived ingreat wealth.A mouse has run,My story's done.