From the DanishThere lay three houses in a row, in one of which there lived a tailor,in another a carpenter, and in the third a smith. All three weremarried, and their wives were very good friends. They often talked abouthow stupid their husbands were, but they could never agree as to whichof them had the most stupid one. each one stuck up for her own husband,and maintained that it was he.The three wives went to church together every Sunday, and had a regulargood gossip on the way, and when they were coming home from church theyalways turned into the tavern which lay by the wayside and drank halfa pint together. This was at the time when half a pint of brandy costthreepence, so that was just a penny from each of them.But the brandy went up in price, and the taverner said that he must havefourpence for the half pint.They were greatly annoyed at this, for there were only the three of themto share it, and none of them was willing to pay the extra penny.As they went home from the church that day they decided to wager witheach other as to whose husband was the most stupid, and the one who, onthe following Sunday, should be judged to have played her husband thegreatest trick should thereafter go free from paying, and each of thetwo others would give twopence for their Sunday's half pint.Next day the tailor's wife said to her husband, 'I have some girlscoming to day to help to card my wool there is a great deal to do, andwe must be very busy. I am so annoyed that our watchdog is dead, for inthe evening the young fellows will come about to get fun with the girls,and they will get nothing done. If we had only had a fierce watchdog hewould have kept them away.''Yes,' said the man, 'that would have been a good thing.''Listen, good man,' said the wife, 'you must just be the watchdogyourself, and scare the fellows away from the house.'The husband was not very sure about this, although otherwise he wasalways ready to give in to her.'Oh yes, you will see it will work all right,' said the wife.And so towards evening she got the tailor dressed up in a shaggy furcoat, tied a black woollen cloth round his head, and chained him upbeside the dog's kennel.'There he stood and barked and growled at everyone that moved in hisneighbourhood. The neighbour wives knew all about this, and were greatlyamused at it.On the day after this the carpenter had been out at work, and came homequite merry. but as soon as he entered the house his wife clapped herhands together and cried, 'My dear, what makes you look like that? Youare ill.'The carpenter knew nothing about being ill. he only thought that hewanted something to eat, so he sat down at the table and began hisdinner.His wife sat straight in front of him, with her hands folded, and shookher head, and looked at him with an anxious air.'You are getting worse, my dear,' she said. 'you are quite pale now. youhave a serious illness about you. I can see it by your looks.'The husband now began to grow anxious, and thought that perhaps he wasnot quite well.'No, indeed,' said she. 'it's high time that you were in bed.'She then got him to lie down, and piled above him all the bedclothesshe could find, and gave him various medicines, while he grew worse andworse.'You will never get over it,' said she. 'I am afraid you are going todie.''Do you think so?' said the carpenter. 'I can well believe it, for I amindeed very poorly.'In a little while she said again, 'Ah, now I must part with you. Herecomes Death. Now I must close your eyes.' And she did so.The carpenter believed everything that his wife said, and so he believednow that he was dead, and lay still and let her do as she pleased.She got her neighbours summoned, and they helped to lay him in thecoffin it was one of those he himself had made. but his wife had boredholes in it to let him get some air. She made a soft bed under him, andput a coverlet over him, and she folded his hands over his breast.but instead of a flower or a psalm book, she gave him a pint bottle ofbrandy in his hands. After he had lain for a little he took a littlepull at this, and then another and another, and he thought this didhim good, and soon he was sleeping sweetly, and dreaming that he was inheaven.Meanwhile word had gone round the village that the carpenter was dead,and was to be buried next day.It was now the turn of the smith's wife. Her husband was lying sleepingoff the effects of a drinking bout, so she pulled off all his clothesand made him black as coal from head to foot, and then let him sleeptill far on in the day.The funeral party had already met at the carpenter's, and marched ofttowards the church with the coffin, when the smith's wife came rushingin to her husband.'Gracious, man,' said she, 'you are lying there yet? You are sleepingtoo long. You know you are going to the funeral.'The smith was quite confused. he knew nothing about any funeral.'It's our neighbour the carpenter,' said his wife, 'who is to be buriedto day. They are already half way to church with him.''All right,' said the smith, 'make haste to help me on with my blackclothes.''What nonsense!' said his wife, 'you have them on already. Be off withyou now.'The smith looked down at his person and saw that he was a good dealblacker than he usually was, so he caught up his hat and ran out afterthe funeral. This was already close to the church, and the smith wantedto take part in carrying the coffin, like a good neighbour. So he ranwith all his might, and shouted after them, 'Hey! wait a little. let meget a hold of him!'The people turned round and saw the black figure coming, and thought itwas the devil himself, who wanted to get hold of the carpenter, so theythrew down the coffin and took to their heels.The lid sprang off the coffin with the shock, and the carpenter woke upand looked out. He remembered the whole affair. he knew that he was deadand was going to be buried, and recognising the smith, he said to him,in a low voice, 'My good neighbour, if I hadn't been dead already, Ishould have laughed myself to death now to see you coming like this tomy funeral.'From that time forth the carpenter's wife drank free of expense everySunday, for the others had to admit that she had fooled her husband thebest.