Once there was a journeyman tailor who had worked diligently all winter. When spring arrived he was no longer willing to squat on the tailoring table making one stitch after the other. He packed up his few things, and with his awl in one hand and his iron in the other he went on his way once again.Before long he met up with a young fellow with fists like a pair of hammers, and the tailor knew at once who he was."Hello, Brother Smith, where are you off to?""Thank you, Brother Tailor. I'm just following my nose.""Shall we go along together?""Why not!"And so they plodded along together.Some time later they came upon someone else.He was not as tall as the huge smith, but was still a a good head taller than the tailor.As his cap and clothes were covered with white dust, they said to him, "Hello, Brother Miller, where are you off to?"Thank you, Brother Tailor, thank you Brother Smith, I'm just going wherever my feet take me.""Shall we go along together?""Why not!"And so they plodded along together.Toward evening they came to a crossroad. The tailor's nose pointed to the right, and the miller's feet wanted to go to the right as well, so they made their way in that direction. But it was not the right way.They came into a deep forest and did not know the way out again. Finally the pathway ended altogether, and they found themselves in a large meadow where there stood a large devil stone. It was covered with green moss and was buried halfway in the earth.The tailor said nothing, but the smith and the miller began to curse like soldiers."The devil take me!" shouted the one. the other added, "And let the devil take me as well!"No sooner had they said this than from the trees there came a roaring and groaning sound, which curdled their blood.Suddenly someone appeared before them, as if he had grown out of the earth. He was wearing a little green hat with a red rooster feather on it. Although he was dressed like a hunter, it was obvious, even from the distance of a hundred feet, that he was up to no good.With his right foot he scratched like a rooster on a manure pile, and then said, "I'm the one who is taking you away! But today has been a good day for me, so each one of you can demand something from me. If you ask me to do something that I cannot do, I'll lead you out of the woods. But otherwise you must go to hell with me!""You first," he said to the smith, who made a face like a cat in a thunderstorm, and did not know what to say."You're running out of time!" shouted the devil.The smith stuttered, "Can you throw this big stone here into the clouds and then catch it with your right ear?"Saying nothing, the devil grabbed the stone with both fists as though he wanted to squeeze it to death, and with one jerk pulled it out of the earth. He swung it up and down and then threw it into the clouds   so high that it could no longer be seen. When the rock came hurtling back, the three of them jumped aside like billy goats. The devil caught it with his right ear, then gently placed it back into its hole."What do you say to that?" he asked the smith, who was standing lamely by. The devil gave him a kick, and in a large arc he flew directly into hell."Now what's your task?" he asked the miller.The miller's heart had fallen into his trousers, and he could think of nothing except for the large rock."Can you grind this large rock into flour?" he asked.The devil grinned, then ground away at the rock with his teeth: Gurtsch, gurtsch. He had barely begun when there was nothing left of the rock but a pile of gray flour. The miller received his kick as well, and in a large arc he flew after the smith.Now only the tailor remained. He was shaking over his whole body and was as white as a handkerchief."Now, Threadman, what have you decided?"But the tailor could say nothing.The Evil One looked at him with his fiery eyes and bellowed, "Say something, tailor, I don't have any more time!"With that the tailor let out a sigh, a sigh from deep within his breast and so loud that it could be heard from afar. (Some folks say that he broke wind, but such people are rather crude.)Then suddenly, and he himself did not know why, the tailor said, "Catch that and tie it into a square knot."However, the sigh had long since been blown away by the wind, and the devil stood there like an ox before a gate. He had to let the tailor go. In his anger he stamped his horse hoof foot to the ground. It opened up, and he fell head first into hell.Recovering from his fright, the tailor saw that he was all alone. There was nothing more to be seen of the smith, the miller, or the devil. If it hadn't been for the pile of stone flour and the stench of pitch and sulfur throughout the woods, it all could have been a dream.Then he took off, as though someone were chasing after him. He found his way out of the woods and happily returned home. He married a beautiful girl. My grandfather was at the wedding, and many times he heard the tailor himself telling this story. Therefore it certainly has to be true.