It came to pass that one beautiful day God wished to take a stroll in theheavenly garden, and took all the apostles and saints with him, leaving noone in heaven but Saint Peter. The Lord had commanded him to allow no oneto enter during his absence, so Peter stood by the gate and kept watch.Before long someone knocked. Peter asked who was there, and what hewanted."I am a poor, honest tailor who is requesting admission," replied apleasant voice."Honest indeed," said Peter. "Like the thief on the gallows. You have beensticky fingered and have robbed people of their cloth. You will not getinto heaven. The Lord has forbidden me to let anyone in as long he isout.""Oh, please be merciful," cried the tailor. "Little scraps that fall offthe table by themselves are not stolen, and are not worth mentioning. Seehere, I am limping and have blisters on my feet from walking here. Icannot possibly go back again. Just let me in, and I will do all the dirtywork. I will tend the children, wash their diapers, wipe off and clean thebenches on which they have been playing, and patch all their tornclothes."Saint Peter let himself be moved by pity and opened heaven's gate justwide enough for the lame tailor to slip his lean body inside. He had totake a seat in a corner behind the door, and was told to stay therequietly and peacefully, so that the Lord would not notice him when hereturned, and become angry.The tailor obeyed, but one time when Saint Peter stepped outside the door,he got up, and full of curiosity, looked into every corner of heaven,seeing what was there. Finally he came to a place where there were manybeautiful and costly chairs. At their center was a seat made entirely ofgold and set with glistening precious stones. It stood much higher thanthe other chairs, and a golden footstool stood in front of it. This wasthe seat on which the Lord sat when he was at home, and from which hecould see everything that was happening on earth.The tailor stood still, and looked at the seat for a long time, for heliked it better than all the rest. Finally he could control his curiosityno longer, and he climbed up and sat down on it. From there he saweverything that was happening on earth.He noticed an ugly old woman whowas standing beside a stream doing the laundry. She secretly set twoscarves aside. Seeing this made the tailor so angry that he took hold ofthe golden footstool and threw it at the old thief, through heaven down toearth. Unable to bring the stool back again, he quietly sneaked down fromthe seat, sat back down in his place behind the door, and pretended thathe had done nothing at all.When the Lord and Master returned with his heavenly attendants, he did notnotice the tailor behind the door, but when he sat down on his seat, thefootstool was missing. He asked Saint Peter what had become of thefootstool, but he did not know. Then he asked if he had admitted anyone."I know of no one who has been here," answered Peter, "except for a lametailor, who is still sitting behind the door."Then the Lord had the tailor brought before him, and asked him if he hadtaken the footstool, and where he had put it."Oh, Lord," answered the tailor joyously, "In my anger I threw it down toearth at an old woman whom I saw stealing two scarves while doing thelaundry.""Oh, you scoundrel," said the Lord, "if I were to judge as you judge, howwould it have gone with you? I would have long since had no chairs,benches, seats, no, not even a stove poker, but would have throwneverything down at the sinners. You can no longer stay in heaven, butmust go outside the gate again. From there watch where you are going. Hereno one metes out punishment, except for me alone, the Lord."Peter had to take the tailor out of heaven again, and because his shoeswere worn out and his feet were covered with blisters, he took a stick inhis hand and went to Wait a While, where the good soldiers sit and makemerry.