From the Danish.A king had two sons. They were a pair of reckless fellows, who alwayshad something foolish to do. One day they rowed out alone on the sea ina little boat. It was beautiful weather when they set out, but as soonas they had got some distance from the shore there arose a terrificstorm. The oars went overboard at once, and the little boat was tossedabout on the rolling billows like a nut shell. The princes had to holdfast by the seats to keep from being thrown out of the boat.In the midst of all this they met a wonderful vessel it was adough trough, in which there sat an old woman. She called to them, andsaid that they could still get to shore alive if they would promise herthe son that was next to come to their mother the queen.'We can't do that,' shouted the princes. 'he doesn't belong to us so wecan't give him away.''Then you can rot at the bottom of the sea, both of you,' said the oldwoman. 'and perhaps it may be the case that your mother would ratherkeep the two sons she has than the one she hasn't got yet.'Then she rowed away in her dough trough, while the storm howled stilllouder than before, and the water dashed over their boat until it wasalmost sinking. Then the princes thought that there was something inwhat the old woman had said about their mother, and being, of course,eager to save their lives, they shouted to her, and promised that sheshould have their brother if she would deliver them from this danger. Assoon as they had done so the storm ceased and the waves fell. The boatdrove ashore below their father's castle, and both princes were receivedwith open arms by their father and mother, who had suffered greatanxiety for them.The two brothers said nothing about what they had promised, neither atthat time nor later on when the queen's third son came, a beautiful boy,whom she loved more than anything else in the world. He was brought upand educated in his father's house until he was full grown, and stillhis brothers had never seen or heard anything about the witch to whomthey had promised him before he was born.It happened one evening that there arose a raging storm, with mist anddarkness. It howled and roared around the king's palace, and in themidst of it there came a loud knock on the door of the hall where theyoungest prince was. He went to the door and found there an old womanwith a dough  trough on her back, who said to him that he must go withher at once. his brothers had promised him to her if she would savetheir lives.'Yes,' said he. 'if you saved my brothers' lives, and they promised meto you, then I will go with you.'They therefore went down to the beach together, where he had to take hisseat in the trough, along with the witch, who sailed away with him, overthe sea, home to her dwelling.The prince was now in the witch's power, and in her service. The firstthing she set him to was to pick feathers. 'The heap of feathers thatyou see here,' said she, 'you must get finished before I come home inthe evening, otherwise you shall be set to harder work.' He startedto the feathers, and picked and picked until there was only a singlefeather left that had not passed through his hands. But then there camea whirlwind and sent all the feathers flying, and swept them along thefloor into a heap, where they lay as if they were trampled together.He had now to begin all his work over again, but by this time it onlywanted an hour of evening, when the witch was to be expected home, andhe easily saw that it was impossible for him to be finished by thattime.Then he heard something tapping at the window pane, and a thin voicesaid, 'Let me in, and I will help you.' It was a white dove, which satoutside the window, and was pecking at it with its beak. He opened thewindow, and the dove came in and set to work at once, and picked allthe feathers out of the heap with its beak. Before the hour was past thefeathers were all nicely arranged: the dove flew out at the window, andat, the same moment the witch came in at the door.'Well, well,' said she, 'it was more than I would have expected of youto get all the feathers put in order so nicely. However, such a princemight be expected to have neat fingers.'Next morning the witch said to the prince, 'To day you shall have someeasy work to do. Outside the door I have some firewood lying. you mustsplit that for me into little bits that I can kindle the fire with. Thatwill soon be done, but you must be finished before I come home.'The prince got a little axe and set to work at once. He split and cloveaway, and thought that he was getting on fast. but the day wore on untilit was long past midday, and he was still very far from having finished.He thought, in fact, that the pile of wood rather grew bigger thansmaller, in spite of what he took off it. so he let his hands fall byhis side, and dried the sweat from his forehead, and was ill at ease,for he knew that it would be bad for him if he was not finished with thework before the witch came home.Then the white dove came flying and settled down on the pile of wood,and cooed and said, 'Shall I help you?''Yes,' said the prince, 'many thanks for your help yesterday, and forwhat you offer to day.' Thereupon the little dove seized one piece ofwood after another and split it with its beak. The prince could not takeaway the wood as quickly as the dove could split it, and in a short timeit was all cleft into little sticks.The dove then flew up on his shoulder and sat there and the princethanked it, and stroked and caressed its white feathers, and kissedits little red beak. With that it was a dove no longer, but a beautifulyoung maiden, who stood by his side. She told him then that she was aprincess whom the witch had stolen, and had changed to this shape,but with his kiss she had got her human form again. and if he would befaithful to her, and take her to wife, she could free them both from thewitch's power.The prince was quite captivated by the beautiful princess, and was quitewilling to do anything whatsoever to get her for himself.She then said to him, 'When the witch comes home you must ask her togrant you a wish, when you have accomplished so well all that she hasdemanded of you. When she agrees to this you must ask her straight outfor the princess that she has flying about as a white dove. But just nowyou must take a red silk thread and tie it round my little finger, sothat you may be able to recognise me again, into whatever shape sheturns me.'The prince made haste to get the silk thread tied round her little whitefinger. at the same moment the princess became a dove again and flewaway, and immediately after that the old witch came home with herdough trough on he back.'Well,' said she, 'I must say that you are clever at your work, and itis something, too, that such princely hands are not accustomed to.''Since you are so well pleased with my work, said the prince, 'youwill, no doubt, be willing to give me a little pleasure too, and give mesomething that I have taken a fancy to.''Oh yes, indeed,' said the old woman. 'what is it that you want?''I want the princess here who is in the shape of a white dove,' said theprince.'What nonsense!' said the witch. 'Why should you imagine that there areprincesses here flying about in the shape of white doves? But if youwill have a princess, you can get one such as we have them.' She thencame to him, dragging a shaggy little grey ass with long ears. 'Will youhave this?' said she. 'you can't get any other princess!'The prince used his eyes and saw the red silk thread on one of the ass'shoofs, so he said, 'Yes, just let me have it.''What will you do with it?' asked the witch.'I will ride on it,' said the prince. but with that the witch draggedit away again, and came back with an old, wrinkled, toothless hag, whosehands trembled with age. 'You can have no other princess,' said she.'Will you have her?''Yes, I will,' said the prince, for he saw the red silk thread on theold woman's finger.At this the witch became so furious that she danced about and knockedeverything to pieces that she could lay her hands upon, so that thesplinters flew about the ears of the prince and princess, who now stoodthere in her own beautiful shape.Then their marriage had to be celebrated, for the witch had to stickto what she had promised, and he must get the princess whatever mighthappen afterwards.The princess now said to him, 'At the marriage feast you may eat whatyou please, but you must not drink anything whatever, for if you do thatyou will forget me.'This, however, the prince forgot on the wedding day, and stretched outhis hand and took a cup of wine. but the princess was keeping watch overhim, and gave him a push with her elbow, so that the wine flew over thetable  cloth.Then the witch got up and laid about her among the plates and dishes, sothat the pieces flew about their ears, just as she had done when she wascheated the first time.They were then taken to the bridal chamber, and the door was shut. Thenthe princess said, 'Now the witch has kept her promise, but she will dono more if she can help it, so we must fly immediately. I shall lay twopieces of wood in the bed to answer for us when the witch speaks to us.You can take the flower pot and the glass of water that stands in thewindow, and we must slip out by that and get away.'No sooner said than done. They hurried off out into the dark night, theprincess leading, because she knew the way, having spied it out whileshe flew about as a dove.At midnight the witch came to the door of the room and called in tothem, and the two pieces of wood answered her, so that she believed theywere there, and went away again. Before daybreak she was at the dooragain and called to them, and again the pieces of wood answered forthem. She thus thought that she had them, and when the sun rose thebridal night was past: she had then kept her promise, and could vent heranger and revenge on both of them. With the first sunbeam she broke intothe room, but there she found no prince and no princess nothing but thetwo pieces of firewood, which lay in the bed, and stared, and spoke nota word. These she threw on the floor, so that they were splintered intoa thousand pieces, and off she hastened after the fugitives.With the first sunbeam the princess said to the prince, 'Look round. doyou see anything behind us?''Yes, I see a dark cloud, far away,' said he.'Then throw the flower pot over your head,' said she. When this was donethere was a large thick forest behind them.When the witch came to the forest she could not get through it until shewent home and brought her axe to cut a path.A little after this the princess said again to the prince, 'Look round.do you see anything behind us?''Yes,' said the prince, 'the big black cloud is there again.''Then throw the glass of water over your head,' said she.When he had done this there was a great lake behind them, and thisthe witch could not cross until she ran home again and brought herdough trough.Meanwhile the fugitives had reached the castle which was the prince'shome. They climbed over the garden wall, ran across the garden, andcrept in at an open window. By this time the witch was just at theirheels, but the princess stood in the window and blew upon the witch.hundreds of white doves flew out of her mouth, fluttered and flappedaround the witch's head until she grew so angry that she turned intoflint, and there she stands to this day, in the shape of a large flintstone, outside the window.Within the castle there was great rejoicing over the prince and hisbride. His two elder brothers came and knelt before him and confessedwhat they had done, and said that he alone should inherit the kingdom,and they would always be his faithful subjects.