Know, O Commander of the Faithful, that my second brother's namewas Al Haddar, that is the Babbler, and he was the paralytic. Nowit happened to him one day, as he was going about his business,that an old woman accosted him and said, "Stop a little, my goodman, that I may tell thee of somewhat which, if it be to thyliking, thou shalt do for me and I will pray Allah to give theegood of it!" My brother stopped and she went on, "I will put theein the way of a certain thing, so thou not be prodigal ofspeech." "On with thy talk," quoth he. and she, "What sayest thouto handsome quarters and a fair garden with flowing waters,flowers blooming, and fruit growing, and old wine going and apretty young face whose owner thou mayest embrace from dark tilldawn? If thou do whatso I bid thee thou shalt see somethinggreatly to thy advantage." "And is all this in the world?" askedmy brother. and she answered, "Yes, and it shall be thine, sothou be reasonable and leave idle curiosity and many words, anddo my bidding." "I will indeed, O my lady," said he, "how is itthou hast preferred me in this matter before all men and what isit that so much pleaseth thee in me?" Quoth she, "Did I not bidthee be spare of speech? Hold thy peace and follow me. Know, thatthe young lady, to whom I shall carry thee, loveth to have herown way and hateth being thwarted and all who gainsay. so, ifthou humour her, thou shalt come to thy desire of her." And mybrother said, "I will not cross her in anything." Then she wenton and my brother followed her, an hungering after what shedescribed to him till they entered a fine large house, handsomeand choicely furnished, full of eunuchs and servants and showingsigns of prosperity from top to bottom. And she was carrying himto the upper story when the people of the house said to him,"What dost thou here?" But the old woman answered them, "Holdyour peace and trouble him not: he is a workman and we haveoccasion for him." Then she brought him into a fine greatpavilion, with a garden in its midst, never eyes saw a fairer.and made him sit upon a handsome couch. He had not sat long, before he heard a loud noise and in came a troop of slave girlssurrounding a lady like the moon on the night of its fullest.When he saw her, he rose up and made an obeisance to her,whereupon she welcomed him and bade him be seated. So he sat downand she said to him, "Allah advance thee to honour! Is all wellwith thee?" "O my lady," he answered, "all with me is rightwell." Then she bade bring in food, and they set before herdelicate viands. so she sat down to eat, making a show ofaffection to my brother and jesting with him, though all thewhile she could not refrain from laughing. but as often as helooked at her, she signed towards her handmaidens as though shewere laughing at them. My brother (the ass!) understood nothing.but, in the excess of his ridiculous passion, he fancied that thelady was in love with him and that she would soon grant him hisdesire. When they had done eating, they set on the wine and therecame in ten maidens like moons, with lutes ready strung in theirhands, and fell to singing with full voices, sweet and sad,whereupon delight gat hold upon him and he took the cup from thelady's hands and drank it standing. Then she drank a cup of wineand my brother (still standing) said to her "Health," and bowedto her. She handed him another cup and he drank it off, when sheslapped him hard on the nape of his neck. Upon this mybrother would have gone out of the house in anger. but the oldwoman followed him and winked to him to return. So he came backand the lady bade him sit and he sat down without a word. Thenshe again slapped him on the nape of his neck. and the secondslapping did not suffice her, she must needs make all herhandmaidens also slap and cuff him, while he kept saying to theold woman, "I never saw aught nicer than this." She on her sideceased not exclaiming, "Enough, enough, I conjure thee, O mymistress!". but the women slapped him till he well nigh swoonedaway. Presently my brother rose and went out to obey a call ofnature, but the old woman overtook him, and said, "Be patient alittle and thou shalt win to thy wish." "How much longer have Ito wait," my brother replied, "this slapping hath made me feelfaint." "As soon as she is warm with wine," answered she, "thoushalt have thy desire." So he returned to his place and sat down,where upon all the handmaidens stood up and the lady bade themperfume him with pastiles and besprinkle his face with rose water. Then said she to him, "Allah advance thee to honour! Thouhast entered my house and hast borne with my conditions, forwhoso thwarteth me I turn him away, and whoso is patient hath hisdesire." "O mistress mine," said he, "I am thy slave and in thehollow of thine hand!" "Know, then," continued she, "that Allahhath made me passionately fond of frolic. and whoso falleth inwith my humour cometh by whatso he wisheth." Then she ordered hermaidens to sing with loud voices till the whole company wasdelighted. after which she said to one of them, "Take thy lord,and do what is needful for him and bring him back to meforthright." So the damsel took my brother (and he not knowingwhat she would do with him). but the old woman overtook him andsaid, "Be patient. there remaineth but little to do." At this hisface brightened and he stood up before the lady while the oldwoman kept saying, "Be patient. thou wilt now at once win to thywish!". till he said, "Tell me what she would have the maiden dowith me?" "Nothing but good," replied she, "as I am thysacrifice! She wisheth only to dye thy eyebrows and pluck out thymustachios." Quoth he, "As for the dyeing of my eye brows, thatwill come off with washing, but for the plucking out ofmy mustachios, that indeed is a somewhat painful process." "Becautious how thou cross her," cried the old woman. "for she hathset her heart on thee." So my brother patiently suffered her todye his eyebrows and pluck out his mustachios, after which themaiden returned to her mistress and told her. Quoth she"Remaineth now only one other thing to be done. thou must shavehis beard and make him a smooth o' face." So the maidenwent back and told him what her mistress had bidden her do. andmy brother (the blockhead!) said to her, "How shall I do whatwill disgrace me before the folk?" But the old woman said, "Shewould do on this wise only that thou mayst be as a beardlessyouth and that no hair be left on thy face to scratch and prickher delicate cheeks. for indeed she is passionately in love withthee. So be patient and thou shalt attain thine object." Mybrother was patient and did her bidding and let shave off hisbeard and, when he was brought back to the lady, lo! he appeareddyed red as to his eyebrows, plucked of both mustachios, shorn ofhis beard, rouged on both cheeks. At first she was affrighted athim. then she made mockery of him and, laughing till she fellupon her back, said, "O my lord, thou hast indeed won my heart bythy good nature!" Then she conjured him, by her life, to stand upand dance, and he arose, and capered about, and there was not acushion in the house but she threw it at his head, and in likemanner did all her women who also kept pelting him with orangesand lemons and citrons till he fell down senseless from thecuffing on the nape of the neck, the pillowing and the fruitpelting. "Now thou hast attained thy wish," said the old womanwhen he came round. "there are no more blows in store for theeand there remaineth but one little thing to do. It is her wont,when she is in her cups, to let no one have her until she put offher dress and trousers and remain stark naked. Then shewill bid thee doff thy clothes and run. and she will run beforethee as if she were flying from thee. and do thou follow her fromplace to place till thy prickle stands at fullest point, when shewill yield to thee." adding, "Strip off thy clothes atonce." So he rose, well nigh lost in ecstasy and, doffing hisraiment, showed himself mother naked. And Shahrazad perceivedthe dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.When it was the Thirty second Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when theold woman said to the Barber's second brother, "Doff thyclothes," he rose, well nigh lost in ecstasy. and, stripping offhis raiment, showed himself mother naked. Whereupon the ladystripped also and said to my brother, "If thou want anything runafter me till thou catch me." Then she set out at a run and heran after her while she rushed into room after room and rushedout of room after room, my brother scampering after her in a rageof desire like a veritable madman, with yard standing terriblytall. After much of this kind she dashed into a darkened place,and he dashed after her. but suddenly he trod upon a yieldingspot, which gave way under his weight. and, before he was awarewhere he was, he found himself in the midst of a crowded market,part of the bazaar of the leather sellers who were crying theprices of skins and hides and buying and selling. When they sawhim in his plight, naked, with standing yard, shorn of beard andmustachios, with eyebrows dyed red, and cheeks ruddied withrouge, they shouted and clapped their hands at him, and set toflogging him with skins upon his bare body till a swoon came overhim. Then they threw him on the back of an ass and carried him tothe Chief of Police. Quoth the Chief, "What is this?" Quoth they,"This fellow fell suddenly upon us out of the Wazir'shouse in this state." So the Prefect gave him an hundredlashes and then banished him from Baghdad. However I went outafter him and brought him back secretly into the city and madehim a daily allowance for his living: although, were it not formy generous humour, I could not have put up with the like of him.Then the Caliph gave ear to