A king had six daughters who disappeared every night from their bedswithout anyone knowing where they went, and every time that they returnedthe soles were gone from their shoes. The king tried every earthly way todiscover what was happening, but he never succeeded. Then he proclaimedthat if anyone could reveal to him where his daughters were going everynight, he could choose one of them to be his wife.A peasant got news of this and became so engrossed with the thoughts ofhow he himself might thus win a princess that with time he fell into deepdespair. One day while sadly walking along he met a dwarf who asked himwhy he was so gloomy. At first the peasant did not want to answer, sayingthat the dwarf would not be able to help him.The dwarf replied, "You cannot know that. Just tell me."So the peasant told him what the king had proclaimed, and how had becomediscouraged, not knowing how he could discover the secret.To this the dwarf told the peasant to go to a certain meadow just outsidethe city, describing exactly where it was. There he would find awashhouse, inside of which there was a bed. The peasant should lie down onthis bed and pretend to be sound asleep. He should also place a brandybottle next to him, to make it appear that he was drunk. However, on noaccount was he to drink anything, but instead was to pay close attentionto whatever the princesses did and to follow their every move.The peasant went to the house and did exactly what he had been told to do.That night at eleven o'clock the princesses arrived. They shook himsoundly to find out if he was asleep. When he neither stirred nor movedthey opened a trapdoor that he had not seen before and climbed downthrough it. The peasant quickly jumped up and followed after them.As soon as he went through the trapdoor he became invisible, so theprincesses, who were walking ahead of him, could not see him. They soonentered a beautiful tree lined walkway. Then they came to a pear treeloaded with pears of pure gold. The peasant plucked one of them,immediately causing a loud cracking sound. The princesses heard this andwere afraid that the peasant in the bed was following them. But seeing noone, they continued on their way.They came to a broad river. A rowboat was on the bank, which the sixprincesses climbed into, and the peasant as well. On the other side of theriver there stood a magnificent castle. They went inside, then entered alarge hall with a floor made of golden flax comb teeth.In the hall six enchanted princes were awaiting the princesses, and theyimmediately began to dance with them. While they were dancing the peasantbroke loose one of the golden flax comb teeth, again causing a loudcracking sound. The princesses were once again afraid, but seeing no one,they put themselves at ease.After dancing away the hour between eleven and twelve, they hurriedlydeparted, climbed into the rowboat, and crossed the river. The peasant waswith them in the boat, and then he rushed on ahead, lay down on the bed,and pretended to be asleep. Arriving at their castle, the princesses toowent to bed and fell asleep.The next day the peasant went to the king, saying that he wanted to revealwhere his daughters were going every night, and he told him everything.The king had his daughters come before him one at a time and asked eachone, beginning with the oldest, if what the peasant said was true. Thefive oldest stubbornly denied everything, whereupon the king had each oftheir heads cut off, one after the other.Only the youngest daughter said that she would confess everything. Forfive years now they had been dancing with the enchanted princes everynight. If they had finished dancing the sixth year with them, they wouldhave been redeemed. They could also be redeemed by allowing their heads tobe cut off, like the five sisters.The peasant received the youngest princess for his wife.