The following story was told to me by Joe Moore, who lives in the parishof Patrick, some mile from Close ny Lheiy. I wrote the story down fromnotes made at the time, the dialogue being taken down, word for word, asit fell from his lips. He told me that this father got the story fromold Hom Bridson himself, ninety years ago and more. he never repeated thestory while any of the Colloo family lived, but the last descendant diedmany years ago, and the old farmhouse is in ruins. It was a curiouscoincidence that, in the week following that in which I had the storyfrom Joe Moore, I received it also from Logan, Utah, from Miss Quirk, whohad it from an old Manxman who had lived there for fifty years and hademigrated from Glen Meay.There was one time a woman named Colloo in Close ny Lheiy, near GlenMeay, and she had a child that had fallen sick in a strange way. Nothingseemed wrong with him yet crosser and crosser he grew, nying nyangingnight and day. The woman was in great distress. Charms had failed, andshe didn't know rightly what to do.It seems that, about a fortnight after birth, the child, as fine a childfor his age as you would see in a day's walk, was left asleep while themother went to the well for water. Now Herself forgot to put the tongson the cradle, and, when she came back, the child was crying pitiful, andno quatin' for him. And from that very hour the flesh seemed to melt offhis bones, till he became as ugly and as wizened a child as you would seebetween the Point of Ayre and the Calf. He was that way, his whininghowl filling the house, for four years, lying in the cradle without amotion on him to put his feet under him. Not a day's res' nor a night'ssleep was there at the woman these four years with him. She was fairscourged with him, until there came a fine day in the spring that Hom begBridson, the tailor, was in the house sewing. Hom is dead now, butthere's many alive as remember him. He was wise tremenjus, for he wasgoing from house to house sewing, and gathering wisdom as he was going.Well, before that day the tailor was seeing lots of wickedness at thechild. When the woman would be out feeding the pigs and sarvin' thecraythurs, he would be hoisting his head up out of the cradle and makingfaces at the tailor, winking, and slicking, and shaking his head, andsaying "What a lad I am!"That day the woman wanted to go to the shop in Glen Meay to sell someeggs that she had, and says she to the tailor: "Hom man, keep your eye onthe chile that the bogh (poor dear) won't fall out of the cradle and hurthimself while I slip down to the shop." When she was gone the tailorbegan to whistle aisy to himsef, as he stitched, the tune on a lil hymn."Drop that, Hom beg," said a lil harsh voice.The tailor, scandalized, looked round to see if it was the child that hadspoken, and it was."Whush, whush, now, lie quate," says the tailor, rocking the cradle withhis foot, and as he rocked he whistled the hymn tune louder."Drop that, Hom beg, I tell ye, an' give us something light an' handy,"says the lil fella back to him, middling sharp."Aw, anything at all to plaze thee," says the tailor, whistling a jig."Hom," says my lad, "can thou dance anything to that?""I can," says the tailor, "can thou?""I can that," says my lad, "would thou like to see me dance?""I would, says the tailor."Take that oul' fiddle down then, Hom man," he said, "and put 'Tune ywheeyl vooar' (Tune of the big wheel) on it.""Aw, I'll do that for thee, an' welcome," says the tailor.The fiddle quits its hook on the wall, and the tailor tunes up."Hom," says the lil fella, "before thou begin to play, clear the kitchenfor me, cheers an' stools, everything away. Make a place for me to stepout to the music, man.""Aw, I'll do that for thee, too," says the tailor.He cleared the kitchen floor, and then he struck up "Tune y wheeyl vooar."In a crack the lil fella bounced from his cradle onto the floor with a"Chu!" and began flying round the kitchen. "Go it Hom, face yourpartner, heel and toe does it. Well done, Hom, jog your elbow, man."Hom plays faster and faster, till me lad was jumping as high as the table.With a "Chu!" up goes his foot on top of the dresser, and "Chu!" then ontop of the chimlee piece, and "Chu!" bang against the partition, then hewas half flying, half footing it round the kitchen, turning and goinground that quick that it put a reel in Hom's head to be looking at him.Then he was whirling everything round for a clear space, even Homhimself, who by degrees gets up on the table in the corner and playswilder and wilder, as the whirling jig grew madder and madder."M' Yee!" says the tailor, throwing down the fiddle, "I mus' run, thou'renot the chile that was in the cradle. Are thou?""Houl' man! thou're right enough," says the lil fella. "Strike up forme, make has'e, make has'e man, more power to you elbow.""Whush!" said the tailor, "here's Herself coming."The dancing ceased. The child gave a hop, skip, and jump into the cradle."Get on with thee sewing, Hom. don't say a word," says the lil fella,covering himself up in the clothes till nothing was left of him to beseen except his eyes which keeked out like a ferret's.When Herself came in the house, the tailor, all of a tremble, was sittingcross legged on the round table and his specs on his nose and letting onthat he was busy sewing. the child in the cradle was shouting andsweeling (squealing) as usual. "What in all the earthly worl'...! Butit's quare stitching, altogether, there's been goin' on her, an' me out.An' how thou can see thee needle in that dark corner, Hom Bridson, letalone sew, it beats me," says she, siding the place. "Well, well then,well, well, on the boghee veg (poor little thing). Did he think Mammyhad gone an' lef' him then, the chree (heart)? Mammy is goin' to feedhim, though."The tailor had been thinking mighty with himself what he ought to do, sohe says,  "Look here, woman, give him nothing at all, but go out and geta creelful of good turf."She brought in the turf, and throws a big bart (bundle) of fern on it.The tailor give a leap off the table down to the floor, and it wasn'tlong till he had the fine fire."Thou'll have the house put on fire for me, Hom," says Herself."No fear, but I'll fire some of them," says the tailor.The child, with his two eyes going out of his head watching to see whatthe tailor would do then, was slowly turning his whining howl into a kindof call, to his own sort to come and fetch him, as like."I'll send thee home," says the tailor, drawing near the cradle, and hestretches out his two hands to take the child and put him on the big redturf fire. Before he was able to lay a hand on him, the lil fella leapedout of the cradle and took for the door. "The back of me han' an thesole of me fut to you!" says he, "if I would only ha' had only anothernight I could have showed thee a trick or two more than that yet."Then the door flew open with a bang, as though someone had thrown itopen, and he took off with himself like a shot. A hullabaloo of laughingand making fun was heard outside, and the noise of many running littlefeet.Out on the door of the house goes Herself, she saw no one, but she caughtsight of a flock of low lying clouds shaped like gulls chasing each otheraway up Glen Rushen, and then comes to her ears, as if afar off from theclouds, sharp whistles and wicked little laughs as if making mock ofher. Then, as she was turning round and searching, she suddenly sees herown sweet rosy smiling child with thumb in mouth lying on the bink (stonebench) right before her. And she took all the joy in the worl' of thechild that he was home again safe and sound.