In a certain place there lived a Brahman by the name of Haridatta. Hetilled the soil, but his time in the field brought him no harvest. Thenone day, as the hottest hours were just over, tormented by the heat, helay down in the shade of a tree in the middle of his field for a sleep. Hesaw a frightful snake, decorated with a large hood, crawl from an anthilla little way off, and thought to himself, "This is surely the goddess ofthe field, and I have not once paid her homage. That is why the fieldremains barren. I must bring her an offering." After thus thinking itover, he got some milk, poured it into a basin, then went to the anthill,and said, "Oh, protector of this field, for a long time I did not knowthat you live here. For this reason I have not yet brought you anoffering. Please forgive me!"Having said this, he set forth the milk, and went home. The next day hereturned to see what had happened, and he found a dinar in the basin. Andthus it continued day by day. He brought the snake milk, and always founda dinar there the next morning.One day the Brahman asked his son to take the milk to the anthill, andhe himself went into the village. The son brought the milk, set it there,and returned home. When he came back the next day and found a dinar, hesaid to himself, "This anthill must be full of gold dinars. I will killthe snake and take them all at once!" Having decided this, the Brahman'sson returned the next day with the milk and a club. As he gave the milk tothe snake, he struck her on the head with the club. The snake, as fatewilled it, escaped with her life. Filled with rage, she bit the boy withher sharp, poisoned teeth, and the boy fell dead at once. His people builta funeral pyre not far from the field and cremated him.Two days later his father returned. When he discovered under whatcircumstances his son had died, he said that justice had prevailed. Thenext morning, he once again took milk, went to the anthill, and praisedthe snake with a loud voice. A good while later the snake appeared in theentrance to the anthill, and said, "You come here from greed, letting evenyour grief for your son pass by. From now on friendship between you and mewill no longer be possible. Your son, in his youthful lack ofunderstanding, struck me. I bit him. How can I forget the club's blow? Howcan you forget the pain and sorrow for your son?" After saying this shegave him a costly pearl for a pearl chain, said, "Do not come back," anddisappeared into her cave.The Brahman took the pearl, cursed his son's lack of understanding, andreturned home.