In a certain place there lived a weaver by the name of Mantharaka,which means "the simpleton." One day, while weaving cloth, the woodenpieces on his loom broke. He took an ax, and set forth to find some wood.He found a large sissoo tree at the ocean's shore, and said aloud, "Nowthis is a large tree. If I fell it, I will have wood enough for all myweaving tools."Having thus thought it through, he raised his ax to begin cutting.However, a spirit lived in this tree, and he said, "Listen! This tree ismy home, and it must be spared in any event, because I like it here wheremy body can be stroked by the cool breezes that blow in from the ocean'swaves."The weaver said, "Then what am I to do? If I don't find a good tree,then my family will starve. You will have to go somewhere else. I am goingto cut it down."The spirit answered, "Listen, I am at your service. Ask whatever youwould like, but spare this tree!"The weaver said, "If that is what you want then I will go home and askmy friend and my wife, and when I return, you must give me what I askfor."The spirit promised, and the weaver, beside himself with joy, returnedhome. Upon his arrival in his city he saw his friend, the barber, andsaid, "Friend, I have gained control over a spirit. Tell me what I shoulddemand from him!"The barber said, "My dear friend, if that is so then you should demanda kingdom. You could be king, and I would be your prime minister, and wetwo would first enjoy the pleasures of this world and then those of thenext one. For they say: A prince who piously gives to others, achievesfame in this world, and through these good deeds, he will arrive inheaven, equal to the gods themselves ."The weaver spoke, "Friend, so be it! But let us also ask my wife."The barber said, "One should never ask women for advice. They also say:A wise man gives women food, clothing, jewelry, and above all theduties of marriage, but he never asks for their advice. And further:That house must perish where a woman, a gambler, or a child is listenedto. And: A man will advance and be loved by worthy people as longas he does not secretly listen to women. Women think only of their ownadvantage, of their own desires. Even if they love only their own son,still, he will serve their wishes. "The weaver spoke, "Even though this is true, she nonetheless must beasked, because she is subservient to her husband."Having said this, he went quickly to his wife and said to her, "Dearone, today I have gained control over a spirit who will grant me one wish.Hence I have come to ask for your advice. Tell me, what should I ask for?My friend the barber thinks that I should request a kingdom."She answered, "Oh, son of your excellence, what do barbers understand?You should never do what they say. After all, it is stated: Areasonable person will no sooner take advice from dancers, singers, thelow born, barbers, or children, than from beggars. Furthermore, aking's life is an unending procession of annoyances. He must constantlyworry about friendships, animosities, wars, servants, defense alliances,and duplicity. He never gets a moment's rest, because: Anyone who wantsto rule must prepare his spirit for misfortune. The same container that isused for salve can also be used to pour out bad luck. Never envy the lifeof a king. "The weaver said, "You are right. But what should I ask for?"She answered, "You can now work on only one piece of cloth at a time.That is barely enough to pay for the necessities. You should ask foranother pair of arms and a second head so that you can work on two piecesof cloth at once, one in front of you, and one behind you. We can sell theone for household necessities, and you can use the money from the secondone for other things. You will thus gain the praise of your relatives, andyou will make gains in both worlds."After hearing this he spoke with joy, "Good, you faithful wife! Youhave spoken well, and I will do what you say. That is my decision."With that he went to the spirit and let his will be known, "Listen, ifyou want to fulfill my wish, then give me another pair of arms and anotherhead."He had barely spoken before he was two headed and four armed.Rejoicing, he returned home, but the people there thought that he was ademon and beat him with sticks and stones, until he fell over dead.And that is why I say: He who cannot think for himself and will notfollow the advice of friends, he will push himself into misfortune, justlike the weaver Mantharaka.