There was once a man who went into the woods to cut some firewood. Hewent from one tree to another, but they were all too good for his purpose,as they would make good timber if allowed to stand. At last he found atree which seemed good for nothing. it was gnarled and partly decayed, sohe began to hew away at it. But just as he began to cut, he heard a voicecalling to him, "Help me out, my good man." And as he turned he saw alarge viper that was caught in a cleft of the tree and could not freeitself."No, I will not help you," said the man, "for you would harm me."But the viper said that it would not hurt him, if he would only freeit. Then the man put his axe into the cleft under the snake, and so freedit. But hardly was it free, when it coiled itself up, hissed, put out itstongue and prepared to strike him."Did I not tell you," said the man, "that you were a rascal who wouldreward good with evil!""Yes," answered the viper, "you may well say that. but so it is in theworld, that all good deeds are rewarded with evil.""That is not true," said the man, "good deeds are rewarded withgood.""You will not find anybody to agree with you there," said the viper. "Iknow better how it goes in the world.""Let us inquire about it," said the man."Very well," said the viper. So it did not bite him, but went with himthrough the forest until they came to an old, worn out horse that wasgrazing. It was lame, and blind in one eye, and had only a few brokenteeth in its mouth. They asked him whether good deeds were rewarded withgood, or with evil."They are rewarded with evil," said the horse. "For twenty years I haveserved my master faithfully. I have carried him on my back, and drawn hiswagon, and have taken care not to stumble lest he fall. As long as I wasyoung and strong, I had kind treatment. I had a good stall, and plenty offood, and was well curried. But now that I am old and weak, I must work inthe treadmill the livelong day. I never have a roof to cover me, and allthe food I have is what I get for myself. No, indeed, good deeds arerewarded only with evil.""There now, you hear," said the viper, "Now I shall bite you.""Oh, no! wait a moment," said the man, "there comes the fox. let us askhim for his opinion." The fox came up and stopped and looked at them, forhe saw that the man was in serious trouble. Then the viper asked the foxwhether good deeds were rewarded with evil or with good."Say 'with good,'" whispered the man, "and I will give you two fatgeese."Then the fox said, "Good deeds are rewarded with good," and as he saidthat he jumped on the viper and bit its neck so that it fell to theground. But as it was dying it insisted, "No, good deeds arerewarded with evil. that I have experienced, I, who spared the man'slife, who has now cheated me out of mine."Now the viper was dead and the man was free. Then he said to the fox,"Come home with me and get your geese.""No, I thank you," said the fox, "I will not go to town, for there thedogs would get me.""Then wait here until I come with the geese," said the man. He ran homeand said to his wife, "Hasten and put two fat geese into a sack, for Ihave promised them to the fox for his breakfast today."The woman took a sack and put something into it. but it was not geeseshe put in, but two fierce dogs.The man then ran out with the bag to the fox, and said, "Here you haveyour reward.""Thank you," said the fox, "then it was not a lie after all, what Isaid first   that good deeds are rewarded with good." Then taking the bagon his back he ran off into the woods."That sack is heavy," said the fox, so he sat down and tore it openwith his sharp teeth. But as he did so the two dogs leaped from the bagand fixed their teeth in his throat. There was no escape from them, so hewas bitten to death, but not until he had said, "No, what I said first wasa lie, after all. good deeds are rewarded with evil."