(2) 'Der Norlands Drache,' from Esthnische Mahrchen. Kreutzwald.Very long ago, as old people have told me, there lived a terriblemonster, who came out of the North, and laid waste whole tractsof country, devouring both men and beasts. and this monster was sodestructive that it was feared that unless help came no living creaturewould be left on the face of the earth. It had a body like an ox, andlegs like a frog, two short fore legs, and two long ones behind, andbesides that it had a tail like a serpent, ten fathoms in length. Whenit moved it jumped like a frog, and with every spring it covered half amile of ground. Fortunately its habit, was to remain for several yearsin the same place, and not to move on till the whole neighbourhood waseaten up. Nothing could hunt it, because its whole body was covered withscales, which were harder than stone or metal. its two great eyes shoneby night, and even by day, like the brightest lamps, and anyone who hadthe ill luck to look into those eyes became as it were bewitched, andwas obliged to rush of his own accord into the monster's jaws. In thisway the Dragon was able to feed upon both men and beasts without theleast trouble to itself, as it needed not to move from the spot where itwas lying. All the neighbouring kings had offered rich rewards toanyone who should be able to destroy the monster, either by forceor enchantment, and many had tried their luck, but all had miserablyfailed. Once a great forest in which the Dragon lay had been set onfire. the forest was burnt down, but the fire did not do the monster theleast harm. However, there was a tradition amongst the wise men of thecountry that the Dragon might be overcome by one who possessed KingSolomon's signet ring, upon which a secret writing was engraved. Thisinscription would enable anyone who was wise enough to interpret it tofind out how the Dragon could be destroyed. Only no one knew where thering was hidden, nor was there any sorcerer or learned man to be foundwho would be able to explain the inscription.At last a young man, with a good heart and plenty of courage, set out tosearch for the ring. He took his way towards the sunrising, because heknew that all the wisdom of old time comes from the East. After someyears he met with a famous Eastern magician, and asked for his advice inthe matter. The magician answered:'Mortal men have but little wisdom, and can give you no help, but thebirds of the air would be better guides to you if you could learn theirlanguage. I can help you to understand it if you will stay with me a fewdays.'The youth thankfully accepted the magician's offer, and said, 'I cannotnow offer you any reward for your kindness, but should my undertakingsucceed your trouble shall be richly repaid.'Then the magician brewed a powerful potion out of nine sorts of herbswhich he had gathered himself all alone by moonlight, and he gave theyouth nine spoonfuls of it daily for three days, which made him able tounderstand the language of birds.At parting the magician said to him. 'If you ever find Solomon's ringand get possession of it, then come back to me, that I may explain theinscription on the ring to you, for there is no one else in the worldwho can do this.'From that time the youth never felt lonely as he walked along. he alwayshad company, because he understood the language of birds. and in thisway he learned many things which mere human knowledge could never havetaught him. But time went on, and he heard nothing about the ring. Ithappened one evening, when he was hot and tired with walking, and hadsat down under a tree in a forest to eat his supper, that he saw twogaily plumaged birds, that were strange to him, sitting at the top ofthe tree talking to one another about him. The first bird said:'I know that wandering fool under the tree there, who has come so farwithout finding what he seeks. He is trying to find King Solomon's lostring.'The other bird answered, 'He will have to seek help from theWitch maiden,(3) who will doubtless be able to put him on the righttrack. If she has not got the ring herself, she knows well enough whohas it.'(3) Hollenmadchen.'But where is he to find the Witch maiden?' said the first bird. 'Shehas no settled dwelling, but is here to day and gone to morrow. He mightas well try to catch the wind.'The other replied, 'I do not know, certainly, where she is at present,but in three nights from now she will come to the spring to wash herface, as she does every month when the moon is full, in order thatshe may never grow old nor wrinkled, but may always keep the bloom ofyouth.''Well,' said the first bird, 'the spring is not far from here. Shall wego and see how it is she does it?''Willingly, if you like,' said the other.The youth immediately resolved to follow the birds to the spring, onlytwo things made him uneasy: first, lest he might be asleep when thebirds went, and secondly, lest he might lose sight of them, since he hadnot wings to carry him along so swiftly. He was too tired to keep awakeall night, yet his anxiety prevented him from sleeping soundly, and whenwith the earliest dawn he looked up to the tree top, he was glad tosee his feathered companions still asleep with their heads under theirwings. He ate his breakfast, and waited until the birds should start,but they did not leave the place all day. They hopped about from onetree to another looking for food, all day long until the evening, whenthey went back to their old perch to sleep. The next day the same thinghappened, but on the third morning one bird said to the other, 'To daywe must go to the spring to see the Witch maiden wash her face.' Theyremained on the tree till noon. then they flew away and went towards thesouth. The young man's heart beat with anxiety lest he should lose sightof his guides, but he managed to keep the birds in view until they againperched upon a tree. The young man ran after them until he was quiteexhausted and out of breath, and after three short rests the birds atlength reached a small open space in the forest, on the edge of whichthey placed themselves on the top of a high tree. When the youth hadovertaken them, he saw that there was a clear spring in the middle ofthe space. He sat down at the foot of the tree upon which the birdswere perched, and listened attentively to what they were saying to eachother.'The sun is not down yet,' said the first bird. 'we must wait yet awhiletill the moon rises and the maiden comes to the spring. Do you think shewill see that young man sitting under the tree?''Nothing is likely to escape her eyes, certainly not a young man, saidthe other bird. 'Will the youth have the sense not to let himself becaught in her toils?''We will wait,' said the first bird, 'and see how they get on together.'The evening light had quite faded, and the full moon was already shiningdown upon the forest, when the young man heard a slight rustling sound.After a few moments there came out of the forest a maiden, gliding overthe grass so lightly that her feet seemed scarcely to touch the ground,and stood beside the spring. The youth could not turn away his eyesfrom the maiden, for he had never in his life seen a woman so beautiful.Without seeming to notice anything, she went to the spring, looked upto the full moon, then knelt down and bathed her face nine times, thenlooked up to the moon again and walked nine times round the well, and asshe walked she sang this song:'Full faced moon with light unshaded,Let my beauty ne'er be faded.Never let my cheek grow pale!While the moon is waning nightly,May the maiden bloom more brightly,May her freshness never fail!'Then she dried her face with her long hair, and was about to go away,when her eye suddenly fell upon the spot where the young man wassitting, and she turned towards the tree. The youth rose and stoodwaiting. Then the maiden said, 'You ought to have a heavy punishmentbecause you have presumed to watch my secret doings in the moonlight.But I will forgive you this time, because you are a stranger and knew nobetter. But you must tell me truly who you are and how you came to thisplace, where no mortal has ever set foot before.'The youth answered humbly: 'Forgive me, beautiful maiden, if I haveunintentionally offended you. I chanced to come here after longwandering, and found a good place to sleep under this tree. At yourcoming I did not know what to do, but stayed where I was, because Ithought my silent watching could not offend you.'The maiden answered kindly, 'Come and spend this night with us. You willsleep better on a pillow than on damp moss.'The youth hesitated for a little, but presently he heard the birdssaying from the top of the tree, 'Go where she calls you, but take careto give no blood, or you will sell your soul.' So the youth went withher, and soon they reached a beautiful garden, where stood a splendidhouse, which glittered in the moonlight as if it was all built out ofgold and silver. When the youth entered he found many splendid chambers,each one finer than the last. Hundreds of tapers burnt upon goldencandlesticks, and shed a light like the brightest day. At length theyreached a chamber where a table was spread with the most costly dishes.At the table were placed two chairs, one of silver, the other of gold.The maiden seated herself upon the golden chair, and offered the silverone to her companion. They were served by maidens dressed in white,whose feet made no sound as they moved about, and not a word was spokenduring the meal. Afterwards the youth and the Witch maiden conversedpleasantly together, until a woman, dressed in red, came in to remindthem that it was bedtime. The youth was now shown into another room,containing a silken bed with down cushions, where he slept delightfully,yet he seemed to hear a voice near his bed which repeated to him,'Remember to give no blood!'The next morning the maiden asked him whether he would not like tostay with her always in this beautiful place, and as he did not answerimmediately, she continued: 'You see how I always remain young andbeautiful, and I am under no one's orders, but can do just what I like,so that I have never thought of marrying before. But from the moment Isaw you I took a fancy to you, so if you agree, we might be married andmight live together like princes, because I have great riches.'The youth could not but be tempted with the beautiful maiden's offer,but he remembered how the birds had called her the witch, and theirwarning always sounded in his ears. Therefore he answered cautiously,'Do not be angry, dear maiden, if I do not decide immediately on thisimportant matter. Give me a few days to consider before we come to anunderstanding.''Why not?' answered the maiden. 'Take some weeks to consider if youlike, and take counsel with your own heart.' And to make the timepass pleasantly, she took the youth over every part of her beautifuldwelling, and showed him all her splendid treasures. But these treasureswere all produced by enchantment, for the maiden could make anything shewished appear by the help of King Solomon's signet ring. only none ofthese things remained fixed. they passed away like the wind withoutleaving a trace behind. But the youth did not know this. he thought theywere all real.One day the maiden took him into a secret chamber, where a little goldbox was standing on a silver table. Pointing to the box, she said, 'Hereis my greatest treasure, whose like is not to be found in the wholeworld. It is a precious gold ring. When you marry me, I will give youthis ring as a marriage gift, and it will make you the happiest ofmortal men. But in order that our love may last for ever, you must giveme for the ring three drops of blood from the little finger of your lefthand.'When the youth heard these words a cold shudder ran over him, for heremembered that his soul was at stake. He was cunning enough, however,to conceal his feelings and to make no direct answer, but he only askedthe maiden, as if carelessly, what was remarkable about the ring?She answered, 'No mortal is able entirely to understand the powerof this ring, because no one thoroughly understands the secret signsengraved upon it. But even with my half knowledge I can work greatwonders. If I put the ring upon the little finger of my left hand, thenI can fly like a bird through the air wherever I wish to go. If I putit on the third finger of my left hand I am invisible, and I can seeeverything that passes around me, though no one can see me. If I put thering upon the middle finger of my left hand, then neither fire nor waternor any sharp weapon can hurt me. If I put it on the forefinger of myleft hand, then I can with its help produce whatever I wish. I can in asingle moment build houses or anything I desire. Finally, as long as Iwear the ring on the thumb of my left hand, that hand is so strong thatit can break down rocks and walls. Besides these, the ring has othersecret signs which, as I said, no one can understand. No doubt itcontains secrets of great importance. The ring formerly belonged to KingSolomon, the wisest of kings, during whose reign the wisest men lived.But it is not known whether this ring was ever made by mortal hands: itis supposed that an angel gave it to the wise King.'When the youth heard all this he determined to try and get possession ofthe ring, though he did not quite believe in all its wonderful gifts.He wished the maiden would let him have it in his hand, but he did notquite like to ask her to do so, and after a while she put it back intothe box. A few days after they were again speaking of the magic ring,and the youth said, 'I do not think it possible that the ring can haveall the power you say it has.'Then the maiden opened the box and took the ring out, and it glitteredas she held it like the clearest sunbeam. She put it on the middlefinger of her left hand, and told the youth to take a knife and try ashard as he could to cut her with it, for he would not be able to hurther. He was unwilling at first, but the maiden insisted. Then he tried,at first only in play, and then seriously, to strike her with the knife,but an invisible wall of iron seemed to be between them, and the maidenstood before him laughing and unhurt. Then she put the ring on her thirdfinger, and in an instant she had vanished from his eyes. Presently shewas beside him again laughing, and holding the ring between her fingers.'Do let me try,' said the youth, 'whether I can do these wonderfulthings.'The maiden, suspecting no treachery, gave him the magic ring.The youth pretended to have forgotten what to do, and asked what fingerhe must put the ring on so that no sharp weapon could hurt him?''Oh, the middle finger of your left hand,' the maiden answered,laughing.She took the knife and tried to strike the youth, and he even tried tocut himself with it, but found it impossible. Then he asked the maidento show him how to split stones and rocks with the help of the ring. Soshe led him into a courtyard where stood a great boulder stone. 'Now,'she said, 'put the ring upon the thumb of your left hand, and you willsee how strong that hand has become. The youth did so, and found to hisastonishment that with a single blow of his fist the stone flew into athousand pieces. Then the youth bethought him that he who does not usehis luck when he has it is a fool, and that this was a chance which oncelost might never return. So while they stood laughing at the shatteredstone he placed the ring, as if in play, upon the third finger of hisleft hand.'Now,' said the maiden, 'you are invisible to me until you take the ringoff again.'But the youth had no mind to do that. on the contrary, he went fartheroff, then put the ring on the little finger of his left hand, and soaredinto the air like a bird.When the maiden saw him flying away she thought at first that he wasstill in play, and cried, 'Come back, friend, for now you see I havetold you the truth.' But the young man never came back.Then the maiden saw she was deceived, and bitterly repented that she hadever trusted him with the ring.The young man never halted in his flight until he reached the dwellingof the wise magician who had taught him the speech of birds. Themagician was delighted to find that his search had been successful,and at once set to work to interpret the secret signs engraved upon thering, but it took him seven weeks to make them out clearly. Then he gavethe youth the following instructions how to overcome the Dragon of theNorth: 'You must have an iron horse cast, which must have little wheelsunder each foot. You must also be armed with a spear two fathoms long,which you will be able to wield by means of the magic ring upon yourleft thumb. The spear must be as thick in the middle as a large tree,and both its ends must be sharp. In the middle of the spear you musthave two strong chains ten fathoms in length. As soon as the Dragon hasmade himself fast to the spear, which you must thrust through his jaws,you must spring quickly from the iron horse and fasten the ends of thechains firmly to the ground with iron stakes, so that he cannot get awayfrom them. After two or three days the monster's strength will be sofar exhausted that you will be able to come near him. Then you can putSolomon's ring upon your left thumb and give him the finishing stroke,but keep the ring on your third finger until you have come close to him,so that the monster cannot see you, else he might strike you dead withhis long tail. But when all is done, take care you do not lose the ring,and that no one takes it from you by cunning.'The young man thanked the magician for his directions, and promised,should they succeed, to reward him. But the magician answered, 'I haveprofited so much by the wisdom the ring has taught me that I desire noother reward.' Then they parted, and the youth quickly flew home throughthe air. After remaining in his own home for some weeks, he heard peoplesay that the terrible Dragon of the North was not far off, and mightshortly be expected in the country. The King announced publicly thathe would give his daughter in marriage, as well as a large part of hiskingdom, to whosoever should free the country from the monster. Theyouth then went to the King and told him that he had good hopes ofsubduing the Dragon, if the King would grant him all he desired for thepurpose. The King willingly agreed, and the iron horse, the great spear,and the chains were all prepared as the youth requested. When all wasready, it was found that the iron horse was so heavy that a hundred mencould not move it from the spot, so the youth found there was nothingfor it but to move it with his own strength by means of the magic ring.The Dragon was now so near that in a couple of springs he would be overthe frontier. The youth now began to consider how he should act, for ifhe had to push the iron horse from behind he could not ride upon it asthe sorcerer had said he must. But a raven unexpectedly gave him thisadvice: 'Ride upon the horse, and push the spear against the ground,as if you were pushing off a boat from the land.' The youth did so, andfound that in this way he could easily move forwards. The Dragon had hismonstrous jaws wide open, all ready for his expected prey. A few pacesnearer, and man and horse would have been swallowed up by them! Theyouth trembled with horror, and his blood ran cold, yet he did not losehis courage. but, holding the iron spear upright in his hand, he broughtit down with all his might right through the monster's lower jaw. Thenquick as lightning he sprang from his horse before the Dragon had timeto shut his mouth. A fearful clap like thunder, which could be heard formiles around, now warned him that the Dragon's jaws had closed uponthe spear. When the youth turned round he saw the point of the spearsticking up high above the Dragon's upper jaw, and knew that the otherend must be fastened firmly to the ground. but the Dragon had got histeeth fixed in the iron horse, which was now useless. The youth nowhastened to fasten down the chains to the ground by means of theenormous iron pegs which he had provided. The death struggle of themonster lasted three days and three nights. in his writhing he beat histail so violently against the ground, that at ten miles' distance theearth trembled as if with an earthquake. When he at length lost power tomove his tail, the youth with the help of the ring took up a stone whichtwenty ordinary men could not have moved, and beat the Dragon so hardabout the head with it that very soon the monster lay lifeless beforehim.You can fancy how great was the rejoicing when the news was spreadabroad that the terrible monster was dead. His conqueror was receivedinto the city with as much pomp as if he had been the mightiest ofkings. The old King did not need to urge his daughter to marry theslayer of the Dragon. he found her already willing to bestow her handupon this hero, who had done all alone what whole armies had tried invain to do. In a few days a magnificent wedding was celebrated, at whichthe rejoicings lasted four whole weeks, for all the neighbouring kingshad met together to thank the man who had freed the world from theircommon enemy. But everyone forgot amid the general joy that they oughtto have buried the Dragon's monstrous body, for it began now to havesuch a bad smell that no one could live in the neighbourhood, andbefore long the whole air was poisoned, and a pestilence broke outwhich destroyed many hundreds of people. In this distress, the King'sson in law resolved to seek help once more from the Eastern magician, towhom he at once travelled through the air like a bird by the help ofthe ring. But there is a proverb which says that ill gotten gains neverprosper, and the Prince found that the stolen ring brought him ill luckafter all. The Witch maiden had never rested night nor day until she hadfound out where the ring was. As soon as she had discovered by means ofmagical arts that the Prince in the form of a bird was on his way to theEastern magician, she changed herself into an eagle and watched in theair until the bird she was waiting for came in sight, for she knew himat once by the ring which was hung round his neck by a ribbon. Then theeagle pounced upon the bird, and the moment she seized him in her talonsshe tore the ring from his neck before the man in bird's shape had timeto prevent her. Then the eagle flew down to the earth with her prey, andthe two stood face to face once more in human form.'Now, villain, you are in my power!' cried the Witch maiden. 'I favouredyou with my love, and you repaid me with treachery and theft. You stolemy most precious jewel from me, and do you expect to live happily as theKing's son in law? Now the tables are turned. you are in my power, and Iwill be revenged on you for your crimes.''Forgive me! forgive me!' cried the Prince. 'I know too well how deeplyI have wronged you, and most heartily do I repent it.'The maiden answered, 'Your prayers and your repentance come too late,and if I were to spare you everyone would think me a fool. You havedoubly wronged me. first you scorned my love, and then you stole myring, and you must bear the punishment.'With these words she put the ring upon her left thumb, lifted the youngman with one hand, and walked away with him under her arm. This timeshe did not take him to a splendid palace, but to a deep cave in a rock,where there were chains hanging from the wall. The maiden now chainedthe young man's hands and feet so that he could not escape. then shesaid in an angry voice, 'Here you shall remain chained up until you die.I will bring you every day enough food to prevent you dying of hunger,but you need never hope for freedom any more.' With these words she lefthim.The old King and his daughter waited anxiously for many weeks for thePrince's return, but no news of him arrived. The King's daughter oftendreamed that her husband was going through some great suffering: shetherefore begged her father to summon all the enchanters and magicians,that they might try to find out where the Prince was and how he couldbe set free. But the magicians, with all their arts, could find outnothing, except that he was still living and undergoing great suffering.but none could tell where he was to be found. At last a celebratedmagician from Finland was brought before the King, who had found outthat the King's son in law was imprisoned in the East, not by men, butby some more powerful being. The King now sent messengers to the East tolook for his son in law, and they by good luck met with the old magicianwho had interpreted the signs on King Solomon's ring, and thus waspossessed of more wisdom than anyone else in the world. The magiciansoon found out what he wished to know, and pointed out the place wherethe Prince was imprisoned, but said: 'He is kept there by enchantment,and cannot be set free without my help. I will therefore go with youmyself.'So they all set out, guided by birds, and after some days came to thecave where the unfortunate Prince had been chained up for nearly sevenyears. He recognised the magician immediately, but the old man did notknow him, he had grown so thin. However, he undid the chains by thehelp of magic, and took care of the Prince until he recovered and becamestrong enough to travel. When he reached home he found that the old Kinghad died that morning, so that he was now raised to the throne. And nowafter his long suffering came prosperity, which lasted to the end of hislife. but he never got back the magic ring, nor has it ever again beenseen by mortal eyes.Now, if YOU had been the Prince, would you not rather have stayed withthe pretty witch maiden?