There were once an old man, as old as I am, perhaps, and an old woman,his wife, and they lived together in a hut, in a village on the edgeof the forest. There were many people in the village. quite a town itwas eight huts at least, thirty or forty souls, good company to behad for crossing the road. But the old man and the old woman wereunhappy, in spite of living like that in the very middle of the world.And why do you think they were unhappy? They were unhappy because theyhad no little Vanya and no little Maroosia. Think of that. Some wouldsay they were better off without them."Would you say that, grandfather?" asked Maroosia."You are a stupid little pigeon," said old Peter, and he went on.Well, these two were very unhappy. All the other huts had babies inthem yes, and little ones playing about in the road outside, andhaving to be shouted at when any one came driving by. But there wereno babies in their hut, and the old woman never had to go to the doorto see where her little one had strayed to, because she had no littleone.And these two, the old man and the old woman, used to stand wholehours, just peeping through their window to watch the children playingoutside. They had dogs and a cat, and cocks and hens, but none ofthese made up for having no children. These two would just stand andwatch the children of the other huts. The dogs would bark, but theytook no notice. and the cat would curl up against them, but they neverfelt her. and as for the cocks and hens, well, they were fed, but thatwas all. The old people did not care for them, and spent all theirtime in watching the Vanyas and Maroosias who belonged to the otherhuts.In the winter the children in their little sheepskin coats...."Like ours?" said Vanya and Maroosia together."Like yours," said old Peter.In their little sheepskin coats, he went on, played in the crisp snow.They pelted each other with snowballs, and shouted and laughed, andthen they rolled the snow together and made a snow woman a regularsnow Baba Yaga, a snow witch. such an old fright!And the old man, watching from the window, saw this, and he says tothe old woman, "Wife, let us go into the yard behind and make a little snow girl. andperhaps she will come alive, and be a little daughter to us.""Husband," says the old woman, "there's no knowing what may be. Let usgo into the yard and make a little snow girl."So the two old people put on their big coats and their fur hats, andwent out into the yard, where nobody could see them.And they rolled up the snow, and began to make a little snow girl.Very, very tenderly they rolled up the snow to make her little armsand legs. The good God helped the old people, and their little snowgirl was more beautiful than ever you could imagine. She was lovelierthan a birch tree in spring.Well, towards evening she was finished a little girl, all snow, withblind white eyes, and a little mouth, with snow lips tightly closed."Oh, speak to us," says the old man."Won't you run about like the others, little white pigeon?" says theold woman.And she did, you know, she really did.Suddenly, in the twilight, they saw her eyes shining blue like the skyon a clear day. And her lips flushed and opened, and she smiled. Andthere were her little white teeth. And look, she had black hair, andit stirred in the wind.She began dancing in the snow, like a little white spirit, tossing herlong hair, and laughing softly to herself.Wildly she danced, like snowflakes whirled in the wind. Her eyesshone, and her hair flew round her, and she sang, while the old peoplewatched and wondered, and thanked God.This is what she sang: "No warm blood in me doth glow,Water in my veins doth flow.Yet I'll laugh and sing and playBy frosty night and frosty day Little daughter of the Snow."But whenever I do knowThat you love me little, thenI shall melt away again.Back into the sky I'll go Little daughter of the Snow.""God of mine, isn't she beautiful!" said the old man. "Run, wife, andfetch a blanket to wrap her in while you make clothes for her."The old woman fetched a blanket, and put it round the shoulders ofthe little snow girl. And the old man picked her up, and she put herlittle cold arms round his neck."You must not keep me too warm," she said.Well, they took her into the hut, and she lay on a bench in the cornerfarthest from the stove, while the old woman made her a little coat.The old man went out to buy a fur hat and boots from a neighbour forthe little girl. The neighbour laughed at the old man. but a rouble isa rouble everywhere, and no one turns it from the door, and so he soldthe old man a little fur hat, and a pair of little red boots with furround the tops.Then they dressed the little snow girl."Too hot, too hot," said the little snow girl. "I must go out into thecool night.""But you must go to sleep now," said the old woman."By frosty night and frosty day," sang the little girl. "No. I willplay by myself in the yard all night, and in the morning I'll play inthe road with the children."Nothing the old people said could change her mind."I am the little daughter of the Snow," she replied to everything, andshe ran out into the yard into the snow.How she danced and ran about in the moonlight on the white frozensnow!The old people watched her and watched her. At last they went to bed.but more than once the old man got up in the night to make sure shewas still there. And there she was, running about in the yard, chasingher shadow in the moonlight and throwing snowballs at the stars.In the morning she came in, laughing, to have breakfast with the oldpeople. She showed them how to make porridge for her, and that wasvery simple. They had only to take a piece of ice and crush it up in alittle wooden bowl.Then after breakfast she ran out in the road, to join the otherchildren. And the old people watched her. Oh, proud they were, I cantell you, to see a little girl of their own out there playing in theroad! They fairly longed for a sledge to come driving by, so that theycould run out into the road and call to the little snow girl to becareful.And the little snow girl played in the snow with the other children.How she played! She could run faster than any of them. Her little redboots flashed as she ran about. Not one of the other children was amatch for her at snowballing. And when the children began making asnow woman, a Baba Yaga, you would have thought the little daughter ofthe Snow would have died of laughing. She laughed and laughed, likeringing peals on little glass bells. But she helped in the making ofthe snow woman, only laughing all the time.When it was done, all the children threw snowballs at it, till it fellto pieces. And the little snow girl laughed and laughed, and was soquick she threw more snowballs than any of them.The old man and the old woman watched her, and were very proud."She is all our own," said the old woman."Our little white pigeon," said the old man.In the evening she had another bowl of ice porridge, and then she wentoff again to play by herself in the yard."You'll be tired, my dear," says the old man."You'll sleep in the hut to night, won't you, my love," says the oldwoman, "after running about all day long?"But the little daughter of the Snow only laughed. "By frosty night andfrosty day," she sang, and ran out of the door, laughing back at themwith shining eyes.And so it went on all through the winter. The little daughter of theSnow was singing and laughing and dancing all the time. She always ranout into the night and played by herself till dawn. Then she'd comein and have her ice porridge. Then she'd play with the children. Thenshe'd have ice porridge again, and off she would go, out into thenight.She was very good. She did everything the old woman told her. Only shewould never sleep indoors. All the children of the village loved her.They did not know how they had ever played without her.It went on so till just about this time of year. Perhaps it was alittle earlier. Anyhow the snow was melting, and you could get aboutthe paths. Often the children went together a little way into theforest in the sunny part of the day. The little snow girl went withthem. It would have been no fun without her.And then one day they went too far into the wood, and when they saidthey were going to turn back, little snow girl tossed her head underher little fur hat, and ran on laughing among the trees. The otherchildren were afraid to follow her. It was getting dark. They waitedas long as they dared, and then they ran home, holding each other'shands.And there was the little daughter of the Snow out in the forest alone.She looked back for the others, and could not see them. She climbed upinto a tree. but the other trees were thick round her, and she couldnot see farther than when she was on the ground.She called out from the tree, "Ai, ai, little friends, have pity on the little snow girl."An old brown bear heard her, and came shambling up on his heavy paws."What are you crying about, little daughter of the Snow?""O big bear," says the little snow girl, "how can I help crying? Ihave lost my way, and dusk is falling, and all my little friends aregone.""I will take you home," says the old brown bear."O big bear," says the little snow girl, "I am afraid of you. I thinkyou would eat me. I would rather go home with some one else."So the bear shambled away and left her.An old gray wolf heard her, and came galloping up on his swift feet.He stood under the tree and asked, "What are you crying about, little daughter of the Snow?""O gray wolf," says the little snow girl, "how can I help crying? Ihave lost my way, and it is getting dark, and all my little friendsare gone.""I will take you home," says the old gray wolf."O gray wolf," says the little snow girl, "I am afraid of you. I thinkyou would eat me. I would rather go home with some one else."So the wolf galloped away and left her.An old red fox heard her, and came running up to the tree on hislittle pads. He called out cheerfully, "What are you crying about, little daughter of the Snow?""O red fox," says the little snow girl, "how can I help crying? I havelost my way, and it is quite dark, and all my little friends aregone.""I will take you home," says the old red fox."O red fox," says the little snow girl, "I am not afraid of you. I donot think you will eat me. I will go home with you, if you will takeme."So she scrambled down from the tree, and she held the fox by the hairof his back, and they ran together through the dark forest. Presentlythey saw the lights in the windows of the huts, and in a few minutesthey were at the door of the hut that belonged to the old man and theold woman.And there were the old man and the old woman, crying and lamenting."Oh, what has become of our little snow girl?""Oh, where is our little white pigeon?""Here I am," says the little snow girl. "The kind red fox has broughtme home. You must shut up the dogs."The old man shut up the dogs."We are very grateful to you," says he to the fox."Are you really?" says the old red fox. "for I am very hungry.""Here is a nice crust for you," says the old woman."Oh," says the fox, "but what I would like would be a nice plump hen.After all, your little snow girl is worth a nice plump hen.""Very well," says the old woman, but she grumbles to her husband."Husband," says she, "we have our little girl again.""We have," says he. "thanks be for that.""It seems waste to give away a good plump hen.""It does," says he."Well, I was thinking," says the old woman, and then she tells himwhat she meant to do. And he went off and got two sacks.In one sack they put a fine plump hen, and in the other they put thefiercest of the dogs. They took the bags outside and called to thefox. The old red fox came up to them, licking his lips, because he wasso hungry.They opened one sack, and out the hen fluttered. The old red fox wasjust going to seize her, when they opened the other sack, and outjumped the fierce dog. The poor fox saw his eyes flashing in the dark,and was so frightened that he ran all the way back into the deepforest, and never had the hen at all."That was well done," said the old man and the old woman. "We have gotour little snow girl, and not had to give away our plump hen."Then they heard the little snow girl singing in the hut. This is whatshe sang: "Old ones, old ones, now I knowLess you love me than a hen,I shall go away again.Good bye, ancient ones, good bye,Back I go across the sky.To my motherkin I go Little daughter of the Snow."They ran into the house. There were a little pool of water in front ofthe stove, and a fur hat, and a little coat, and little red boots werelying in it. And yet it seemed to the old man and the old woman thatthey saw the little snow girl, with her bright eyes and her long hair,dancing in the room."Do not go! do not go!" they begged, and already they could hardly seethe little dancing girl.But they heard her laughing, and they heard her song: "Old ones, old ones, now I knowLess you love me than a hen,I shall melt away again.To my motherkin I go Little daughter of the Snow."And just then the door blew open from the yard, and a cold wind filledthe room, and the little daughter of the Snow was gone."You always used to say something else, grandfather," said Maroosia.Old Peter patted her head, and went on."I haven't forgotten. The little snow girl leapt into the arms ofFrost her father and Snow her mother, and they carried her away overthe stars to the far north, and there she plays all through the summeron the frozen seas. In winter she comes back to Russia, and some day,you know, when you are making a snow woman, you may find the littledaughter of the Snow standing there instead.""Wouldn't that be lovely!" said Maroosia.Vanya thought for a minute, and then he said, "I'd love her much more than a hen."