In the forest, high up on the steep shore, and not far from theopen seacoast, stood a very old oak tree. It was just three hundredand sixty five years old, but that long time was to the tree as thesame number of days might be to us. we wake by day and sleep by night,and then we have our dreams. It is different with the tree. it isobliged to keep awake through three seasons of the year, and doesnot get any sleep till winter comes. Winter is its time for rest.its night after the long day of spring, summer, and autumn. On manya warm summer, the Ephemera, the flies that exist for only a day,had fluttered about the old oak, enjoyed life and felt happy and if,for a moment, one of the tiny creatures rested on one of his largefresh leaves, the tree would always say, "Poor little creature! yourwhole life consists only of a single day. How very short. It must bequite melancholy.""Melancholy! what do you mean?" the little creature would alwaysreply. "Everything around me is so wonderfully bright and warm, andbeautiful, that it makes me joyous.""But only for one day, and then it is all over.""Over!" repeated the fly. "what is the meaning of all over? Areyou all over too?""No. I shall very likely live for thousands of your days, and myday is whole seasons long. indeed it is so long that you could neverreckon it out.""No? then I don't understand you. You may have thousands of mydays, but I have thousands of moments in which I can be merry andhappy. Does all the beauty of the world cease when you die?""No," replied the tree. "it will certainly last much longer, infinitelylonger than I can even think of.""Well, then," said the little fly, "we have the same time to live.only we reckon differently." And the little creature danced and floatedin the air, rejoicing in her delicate wings of gauze and velvet,rejoicing in the balmy breezes, laden with the fragrance ofclover fields and wild roses, elder blossoms and honeysuckle, from thegarden hedges, wild thyme, primroses, and mint, and the scent of allthese was so strong that the perfume almost intoxicated the little fly.The long and beautiful day had been so full of joy and sweet delights,that when the sun sank low it felt tired of all its happiness andenjoyment. Its wings could sustain it no longer, and gently and slowlyit glided down upon the soft waving blades of grass, nodded its littlehead as well as it could nod, and slept peacefully and sweetly. Thefly was dead."Poor little Ephemera!" said the oak. "what a terribly shortlife!" And so, on every summer day the dance was repeated, the samequestions asked, and the same answers given. The same thing wascontinued through many generations of Ephemera. all of them feltequally merry and equally happy.The oak remained awake through the morning of spring, the noonof summer, and the evening of autumn. its time of rest, its night drewnigh winter was coming. Already the storms were singing, "Good night,good night." Here fell a leaf and there fell a leaf. "We will rock youand lull you. Go to sleep, go to sleep. We will sing you to sleep, andshake you to sleep, and it will do your old twigs good. they will evencrackle with pleasure. Sleep sweetly, sleep sweetly, it is yourthree hundred and sixty fifth night. Correctly speaking, you are but ayoungster in the world. Sleep sweetly, the clouds will drop snowupon you, which will be quite a cover lid, warm and sheltering to yourfeet. Sweet sleep to you, and pleasant dreams." And there stood theoak, stripped of all its leaves, left to rest during the whole of along winter, and to dream many dreams of events that had happened inits life, as in the dreams of men. The great tree had once been small.indeed, in its cradle it had been an acorn. According to humancomputation, it was now in the fourth century of its existence. It wasthe largest and best tree in the forest. Its summit towered aboveall the other trees, and could be seen far out at sea, so that itserved as a landmark to the sailors. It had no idea how many eyeslooked eagerly for it. In its topmost branches the wood pigeon builther nest, and the cuckoo carried out his usual vocal performances, andhis well known notes echoed amid the boughs. and in autumn, when theleaves looked like beaten copper plates, the birds of passage wouldcome and rest upon the branches before taking their flight acrossthe sea. But now it was winter, the tree stood leafless, so that everyone could see how crooked and bent were the branches that sprang forthfrom the trunk. Crows and rooks came by turns and sat on them, andtalked of the hard times which were beginning, and how difficult itwas in winter to obtain food.It was just about holy Christmas time that the tree dreamed adream. The tree had, doubtless, a kind of feeling that the festivetime had arrived, and in his dream fancied he heard the bellsringing from all the churches round, and yet it seemed to him to bea beautiful summer's day, mild and warm. His mighty summits wascrowned with spreading fresh green foliage. the sunbeams playedamong the leaves and branches, and the air was full of fragrancefrom herb and blossom. painted butterflies chased each other. thesummer flies danced around him, as if the world had been createdmerely for them to dance and be merry in. All that had happened to thetree during every year of his life seemed to pass before him, as ina festive procession. He saw the knights of olden times and nobleladies ride by through the wood on their gallant steeds, with plumeswaving in their hats, and falcons on their wrists. The hunting hornsounded, and the dogs barked. He saw hostile warriors, in coloreddresses and glittering armor, with spear and halberd, pitching theirtents, and anon striking them. The watchfires again blazed, and mensang and slept under the hospitable shelter of the tree. He saw loversmeet in quiet happiness near him in the moonshine, and carve theinitials of their names in the grayish green bark on his trunk.Once, but long years had intervened since then, guitars and Eolianharps had been hung on his boughs by merry travellers. now they seemedto hang there again, and he could hear their marvellous tones. Thewood pigeons cooed as if to explain the feelings of the tree, andthe cuckoo called out to tell him how many summer days he had yet tolive. Then it seemed as if new life was thrilling through everyfibre of root and stem and leaf, rising even to the highestbranches. The tree felt itself stretching and spreading out, whilethrough the root beneath the earth ran the warm vigor of life. As hegrew higher and still higher, with increased strength, his topmostboughs became broader and fuller. and in proportion to his growth,so was his self satisfaction increased, and with it arose a joyouslonging to grow higher and higher, to reach even to the warm, brightsun itself. Already had his topmost branches pierced the clouds, whichfloated beneath them like troops of birds of passage, or large whiteswans. every leaf seemed gifted with sight, as if it possessed eyes tosee. The stars became visible in broad daylight, large andsparkling, like clear and gentle eyes. They recalled to the memory thewell known look in the eyes of a child, or in the eyes of lovers whohad once met beneath the branches of the old oak. These were wonderfuland happy moments for the old tree, full of peace and joy. and yet,amidst all this happiness, the tree felt a yearning, longing desirethat all the other trees, bushes, herbs, and flowers beneath him,might be able also to rise higher, as he had done, and to see all thissplendor, and experience the same happiness. The grand, majestic oakcould not be quite happy in the midst of his enjoyment, while allthe rest, both great and small, were not with him. And this feeling ofyearning trembled through every branch, through every leaf, aswarmly and fervently as if they had been the fibres of a humanheart. The summit of the tree waved to and fro, and bent downwardsas if in his silent longing he sought for something. Then there cameto him the fragrance of thyme, followed by the more powerful scentof honeysuckle and violets. and he fancied he heard the note of thecuckoo. At length his longing was satisfied. Up through the cloudscame the green summits of the forest trees, and beneath him, the oaksaw them rising, and growing higher and higher. Bush and herb shotupward, and some even tore themselves up by the roots to rise morequickly. The birch tree was the quickest of all. Like a lightningflash the slender stem shot upwards in a zigzag line, the branchesspreading around it like green gauze and banners. Every native ofthe wood, even to the brown and feathery rushes, grew with the rest,while the birds ascended with the melody of song. On a blade of grass,that fluttered in the air like a long, green ribbon, sat agrasshopper, cleaning his wings with his legs. May beetles hummed, thebees murmured, the birds sang, each in his own way. the air was filledwith the sounds of song and gladness."But where is the little blue flower that grows by the water?"asked the oak, "and the purple bell flower, and the daisy?" You seethe oak wanted to have them all with him."Here we are, we are here," sounded in voice and song."But the beautiful thyme of last summer, where is that? and thelilies of the valley, which last year covered the earth with theirbloom? and the wild apple tree with its lovely blossoms, and all theglory of the wood, which has flourished year after year? even what mayhave but now sprouted forth could be with us here.""We are here, we are here," sounded voices higher in the air, asif they had flown there beforehand."Why this is beautiful, too beautiful to be believed," said theoak in a joyful tone. "I have them all here, both great and small. notone has been forgotten. Can such happiness be imagined?" It seemedalmost impossible."In heaven with the Eternal God, it can be imagined, and it ispossible," sounded the reply through the air.And the old tree, as it still grew upwards and onwards, feltthat his roots were loosening themselves from the earth."It is right so, it is best," said the tree, "no fetters hold menow. I can fly up to the very highest point in light and glory. Andall I love are with me, both small and great. All all are here."Such was the dream of the old oak: and while he dreamed, amighty storm came rushing over land and sea, at the holy Christmastime. The sea rolled in great billows towards the shore. There was acracking and crushing heard in the tree. The root was torn from theground just at the moment when in his dream he fancied it was beingloosened from the earth. He fell his three hundred and sixty fiveyears were passed as the single day of the Ephemera. On the morning ofChristmas day, when the sun rose, the storm had ceased. From all thechurches sounded the festive bells, and from every hearth, even of thesmallest hut, rose the smoke into the blue sky, like the smoke fromthe festive thank offerings on the Druids' altars. The sea graduallybecame calm, and on board a great ship that had withstood thetempest during the night, all the flags were displayed, as a tokenof joy and festivity. "The tree is down! The old oak, our landmark onthe coast!" exclaimed the sailors. "It must have fallen in the stormof last night. Who can replace it? Alas! no one." This was a funeraloration over the old tree. short, but well meant. There it laystretched on the snow covered shore, and over it sounded the notesof a song from the ship a song of Christmas joy, and of theredemption of the soul of man, and of eternal life through Christ'satoning blood."Sing aloud on the happy morn,All is fulfilled, for Christ is born.With songs of joy let us loudly sing,'Hallelujahs to Christ our King.'"Thus sounded the old Christmas carol, and every one on board theship felt his thoughts elevated, through the song and the prayer, evenas the old tree had felt lifted up in its last, its beautiful dream onthat Christmas morn.