(_A Tale of Chivalry._)You see, there was a waiver lived wanst upon a time in Duleek here, hardby the gate, and a very honest, industherous man he was by all accounts.Well, it was one mornin' that his housekeeper called to him, and hesitting very busy throwin' the shuttle. and says she, "Your brekquest isready!" "Lave me alone," says he. "I'm busy with a patthern here that isbrakin' my heart, and until I complate and masther it intirely I won'tquit.""Oh, think o' the iligant stirabout that'll be spylte intirely.""To the divil with the stirabout!" says he."God forgive you," says she, "for cursin' your good brekquest."Well, he left the loom at last and wint over to the stirabout, and whatwould you think, but whin he looked at it, it was as black as a crow.for, you see, it was in the hoighth o' summer, and the flies lit upon itto that degree that the stirabout was fairly covered with them."Why, thin, bad luck to your impidence," says the waiver. "would noplace sarve you but that? And is it spyling my brekquest yiz are, youdirty bastes?" And with that, bein' altogether cruked tempered at thetime, he lifted his hand, and he made one great slam at the dish o'stirabout and killed no less than three score and tin flies at the oneblow. It was three score and tin exactly, for he counted the carcassesone by one, and laid them out on a clane plate for to view them.Well, he felt a powerful sperit risin' in him when he seen the slaughterhe done at one blow, and with that he got as consaited as the verydickens, and not a sthroke more work he'd do that day, but out he wint,and was fractious and impident to everyone he met, and was squarein' upinto their faces and sayin', "Look at that fist! That's the fist thatkilled three score and tin at one blow. Whoo! It is throwin' away mytime I have been all my life," says he, "stuck to my loom, nothin' but apoor waiver, when it is Saint George or the Dhraggin I ought to be,which is two of the sivin champions o' Christendom. I'm detarmined onit, and I'll set off immediately and be a knight arriant." Well, sureenough, he wint about among his neighbours the next day, and he got anowld kittle from one and a saucepan from another, and he took them tothe tailor, and he sewed him up a shuit o' tin clothes like any knightarriant, and he borrowed a pot lid, and _that_ he was very partic'larabout, bekase it was his shield, and he wint to a friend o' his, apainther and glaizier, and made him paint an his shield in big letthers:"I'M THE MAN OF ALL MIN,THAT KILL'D THREE SCORE AND TINAT A BLOW.""When the people sees that," says the waiver to himself, "the sorra onewill dar for to come near me."And with that he towld the housekeeper to scour out the small iron potfor him, "for," says he, "it will make an iligant helmet." And when itwas done he put it an his head, and says she, "Is it puttin' a greatheavy iron pot an your head you are by way iv a hat?""Sartinly," says he, "for a knight arriant should always have a woightan his brain.""But," says she, "there's a hole in it, and it can't keep out theweather.""It will be the cooler," says he, puttin' it an him. "besides, if Idon't like it, it is aisy to stop it with a wisp o' sthraw, or the likeo' that.""The three legs of it looks mighty quare stickin' up," says she."Every helmet has a spike stickin' out o' the top of it," says thewaiver, "and if mine has three, it's only the grandher it is.""Well," says the housekeeper, getting bitther at last, "all I can sayis, it isn't the first sheep's head was dhress'd in it.""Your sarvint, ma'am," says he. and off he set.Well, he was in want of a horse, and so he wint to a field hard by wherethe miller's horse was grazin' that used to carry the ground corn roundthe counthry."This is the idintical horse for me," says the waiver. "He is used tocarryin' flour and male. and what am I but the flower o' shovelry in acoat o' mail. so that the horse won't be put out iv his way in thelaste."But as he was ridin' him out o' the field, who should see him but themiller. "Is it stalin' my horse you are, honest man?" says the miller."No," says the waiver. "I'm only goin' to axercise him," says he, "inthe cool o' the evenin'. it will be good for his health.""Thank you kindly," says the miller, "but lave him where he is, andyou'll obleege me.""I can't afford it," says the waiver, runnin' the horse at the ditch."Bad luck to your impidence," says the miller. "you've as much tin aboutyou as a thravellin' tinker, but you've more brass. Come back here, youvagabone," says he.But he was too late away galloped the waiver, and took the road toDublin, for he thought the best thing he could do was to go to the Kingo' Dublin (for Dublin was a grate place thin, and had a king iv itsown), and he thought maybe the King o' Dublin would give him work. Well,he was four days goin' to Dublin, for the baste was not the best, andthe roads worse, not all as one as now. but there was no turnpikes then,glory be to God! Whin he got to Dublin he wint sthrait to the palace,and whin he got into the coortyard he let his horse go and graze aboutthe place, for the grass was growin' out betune the stones. everythingwas flourishin' thin in Dublin, you see. Well, the King was lookin' outof his dhrawin' room windy for divarshin, whin the waiver kem in. butthe waiver pretended not to see him, and he wint over to a stone sateundher the windy for, you see, there was stone sates all around aboutthe place for the accommodation o' the people for the King was adacent, obleegin' man. Well, as I said, the waiver wint over and laydown an one o' the sates, just undher the King's windy, and purtended togo asleep. but he took care to turn out the front of his shield that hadthe letthers an it. Well, my dear, with that the King calls out to oneof the lords of his coort that was standin' behind him howldin' up theskirt of his coat, according to rayson, and says he, "Look here," sayshe, "what do you think of a vagabone like that comin' undher my verynose to go sleep? It is thrue I'm a good King," says he, "and I'commodate the people by havin' sates for them to sit down and enjoy theraycreation and contimplation of seein' me here lookin' out o' mydhrawin' room windy for divarshin. but that is no rayson they are tomake a hotel o' the place and come and sleep here. Who is it at all?"says the King."Not a one o' me knows, plaze your majesty.""I think he must be a furriner," says the King, "bekase his dhress isoutlandish.""And doesn't know manners, more betoken," says the lord."I'll go down and circumspect him myself," says the King. "Folly me,"says he to the lord, wavin' his hand at the same time in the mostdignacious manner.Down he wint accordingly, followed by the lord. and whin he wint over towhere the waiver was lying, sure, the first thing he seen was his shieldwith the big letthers an it, and with that, says he to the lord, "Bydad," says he, "this is the very man I want.""For what, plaze your majesty?" says the lord."To kill that vagabone dhraggin, to be sure," says the King."Sure, do you think he could kill him," says the lord, "whin all thestoutest knights in the land wasn't aiquil to it, but never kem back,and was ate up alive by the cruel desaiver.""Sure, don't you see there," says the King, pointin' at the shield,"that he killed three score and tin at one blow. and the man that donethat, I think, is a match for anything."So, with that, he wint over to the waiver and shuck him by the shouldherfor to wake him, and the waiver rubbed his eyes as if just wakened, andthe King says to him, "God save you!" said he."God save you kindly!" says the waiver, purtendin' he was quite onknowstwho he was spakin' to."Do you know who I am," says the King, "that you make so free, goodman?""No, indeed," says the waiver. "you have the advantage o' me.""To be sure I have," says the King, moighty high. "sure, ain't I theKing o' Dublin?" says he.The waiver dhropped down on his two knees forninst the King, and sayshe, "I beg God's pardon and yours for the liberty I tuk. plaze yourholiness, I hope you'll excuse it.""No offince," says the King. "get up, good man. And what brings youhere?" says he."I'm in want o' work, plaze your riverence," says the waiver."Well, suppose I give you work?" says the King."I'll be proud to sarve you, my lord," says the waiver."Very well," says the King. "You killed three score and tin at one blow,I understan'," says the King."Yis," says the waiver. "that was the last thrifle o' work I done, andI'm afeared my hand 'ill go out o' practice if I don't get some job todo at wanst.""You shall have a job immediantly," says the King. "It is not threescore and tin, or any fine thing like that. it is only a blaguarddhraggin that is disturbin' the counthry and ruinatin' my tinanthry widaitin' their powlthry, and I'm lost for want of eggs," says the King."Throth, thin, plaze your worship," says the waiver, "you look as yellowas if you swallowed twelve yolks this minit.""Well, I want this dhraggin to be killed," says the King. "It will be nothrouble in life to you. and I'm only sorry that it isn't betther worthyour while, for he isn't worth fearin' at all. only I must tell you thathe lives in the county Galway, in the middle of a bog, and he has anadvantage in that.""Oh, I don't value it in the laste," says the waiver. "for the lastthree score and tin I killed was in a soft place.""When will you undhertake the job then?" says the King."Let me at him at wanst," says the waiver."That's what I like," says the King. "you're the very man for my money,"says he."Talkin' of money," says the waiver, "by the same token, I'll want athrifle o' change from you for my thravellin' charges.""As much as you plaze," says the King. and with the word he brought himinto his closet, where there was an owld stockin' in an oak chestburstin' wid goolden guineas."Take as many as you plaze," says the King. and sure enough, my dear,the little waiver stuffed his tin clothes as full as they could howldwith them."Now, I'm ready for the road," says the waiver."Very well," says the King. "but you must have a fresh horse," says he."With all my heart," says the waiver, who thought he might as wellexchange the miller's owld garron for a betther.And, maybe, it's wondherin' you are that the waiver would think of goin'to fight the dhraggin afther what he heerd about him when he waspurtendin' to be asleep. But he had no sitch notion: all he intendedwas to fob the goold and ride back again to Duleek with his gains and agood horse. But, you see, cute as the waiver was, the King was cuterstill. for these high quolity, you see, is great desaivers. and so thehorse the waiver was put an was learned an purpose. and, sure, theminit he was mounted away powdhered the horse, and the divil a toe he'dgo but right down to Galway. Well, for four days he was goin' evermore,until at last the waiver seen a crowd o' people runnin' as if Owld Nickwas at their heels, and they shoutin' a thousand murdhers and cryin',"The dhraggin, the dhraggin!" and he couldn't stop the horse nor makehim turn back, but away he pelted right forinst the terrible baste thatwas comin' up to him, and there was the most nefarious smell o' sulphur,savin' your presence, enough to knock you down. and, faith, the waiverseen he had no time to lose, and so he threwn himself off the horse andmade to a three that was growin' nigh hand, and away he clambered upinto it as nimble as a cat. and not a minit had he to spare, for thedhraggin kem up in a powerful rage, and he devoured the horse, body andbones, in less than no time. and then he began to sniffle and scentabout for the waiver, and at last he clapt his eye an him where he wasup in the three, and says he, "In throth, you might as well come downout o' that," says he, "for I'll have you as sure as eggs is mate.""Divil a fut I'll go down," says the waiver."Sorra care I care," says the dhraggin, "for you're as good as readymoney in my pocket this minit, for I'll lie undher this three," says he,"and sooner or later you must fall to my share". and, sure enough, hesot down and began to pick his teeth with his tail afther the heavybrekquest he made that mornin' (for he ate a whole village, let alonethe horse), and he got dhrowsy at last and fell asleep. but before hewint to sleep he wound himself all round the three, all as one as a ladywindin' ribbon round her finger, so that the waiver could not escape.Well, as soon as the waiver knew he was dead asleep by the snorin' ofhim and every snore he let out of him was like a clap o' thunder  The minit, the waiver began to creep down the three as cautious as afox. and he was very nigh hand the bottom when, bad cess to it, athievin' branch he was dipindin' an bruk, and down he fell right atop o'the dhraggin. But if he did, good luck was an his side, for where shouldhe fall but with his two legs right acrass the dhraggin's neck, and, myjew'l, he laid howlt o' the baste's ears, and there he kept his grip,for the dhraggin wakened and endayvoured for to bite him. but, you see,by rayson the waiver was behind his ears he could not come at him, and,with that, he endayvoured for to shake him off. but the divil of a stircould he stir the waiver. and though he shuk all the scales an his bodyhe could not turn the scale again the waiver."By the hokey, this is too bad intirely," says the dhraggin. "but if youwon't let go," says he, "by the powers o' wildfire, I'll give you a ridethat 'ill astonish your siven small sinses, my boy". and with that awayhe flew like mad. and where do you think he did fly? By dad, he flewsthraight for Dublin divil a less. But the waiver bein' an his neck wasa great disthress to him, and he would rather have made him an inside_passenger_. but, anyway, he flew and he flew till he kem slap up aginthe palace o' the King. for, bein' blind with the rage, he never seenit, and he knocked his brains out that is, the small thrifle he had,and down he fell spacheless. An', you see, good luck would have it thatthe King o' Dublin was lookin' out iv his dhrawin' room windy fordivarshin that day also, and whin he seen the waiver ridin' and thefiery dhraggin (for he was blazin' like a tar barrel), he called out tohis coortyers to come and see the show. "By the powdhers o' war, herecomes the knight arriant," says the King, "ridin' the dhraggin that'sall afire, and if he gets into the palace, yiz must be ready wid thefire ingines," says he, "for to put him out." But when they seen thedhraggin fall outside they all run downstairs and scampered into thepalace yard for to circumspect the curiosity. and by the time they gotdown the waiver had got off o' the dhraggin's neck, and runnin' up tothe King, says he, "Plaze your holiness," says he, "I did not thinkmyself worthy of killin' this facetious baste, so I brought him toyourself for to do him the honour of decripitation by your own royalfive fingers. But I tamed him first before I allowed him the liberty forto dar' to appear in your royal prisince, and you'll oblige me if youjust make your mark with your own hand upon the onruly baste's neck."And with that the King, sure enough, dhrew out his swoord and took thehead aff the dirty brute as clane as a new pin. Well, there was greatrejoicin' in the coort that the dhraggin was killed. and says the Kingto the little waiver, says he, "You are a knight arriant as it is, andso it would be no use for to knight you over agin. but I will make you alord," says he."Oh, Lord!" says the waiver, thunderstruck like at his own good luck."I will," says the King. "and as you are the first man I ever heerd tellof that rode a dhraggin, you shall be called Lord Mount Dhraggin," sayshe."But that is not all I'll do for you," says the King. "I'll give you mydaughter, too, in marriage," says he. Now, you see, that was nothingmore than what he promised the waiver in his first promise. for by allaccounts the King's daughter was the greatest dhraggin ever was seen,and had the divil's own tongue, and a beard a yard long, which shepurtended was put an her, by way of a penance, by Father Mulcahy, herconfissor. but it was well known it was in the family for ages, and nowondher it was so long by rayson of that same.SAMUEL LOVER.