An uneasy peace ruled in Jerusalem. Saladin's victory against theCrusaders had cost the Muslims dearly, both in the loss of troops and inthe depletion of the royal treasury. Saladin was resolved to rule withcivilized humanity as far as possible. But it was an uneasy peace, withJews, Christians, and the newly victorious Muslims all suspicious of oneanother.Thus when Saladin requested an audience with Nathan, a leading Jewishmerchant, the latter was very apprehensive about the Sultan's motivation.Nathan was known far and wide not only for his successes in commerce, butalso for his skills in diplomacy and negotiation. Jews, Christians, andMuslims alike called him Nathan the Wise.Nathan's suspicions were well founded, for Saladin was indeed lookingto replenish his exhausted coffers with a loan or a gift from his wealthyJewish subject. Too civil to openly demand such a tribute from thepeace loving Nathan, the Sultan instead masked his request in the form ofa theological question."Your reputation for wisdom is great," said the Sultan. "You must havestudied the great religions. Tell me, which is the best, Judaism, Islam,or Christianity?""Sultan, I am a Jew," replied Nathan."And I a Muslim," interrupted Saladin, "and between us stands theChristian. But the three faiths contradict one another. They cannot all betrue. Tell me the results of your own wise deliberations. Which religionis best?"Nathan recognized the trap at once. Any answer except "Islam" wouldoffend Saladin the Muslim, whereas any answer except "Judaism" would placehis own integrity under question. Thus, instead of giving a direct answer,Nathan responded by relating a parable to Saladin:In the Orient in ancient times there lived a man who possessed a ring ofinestimable worth. Its stone was an opal that emitted a hundred colors,but its real value lay in its ability to make its wearer beloved of Godand man. The ring passed from father to most favored son for manygenerations, until finally its owner was a father with three sons, allequally deserving. Unable to decide which of the three sons was mostworthy, the father commissioned a master artisan to make two exact copiesof the ring, then gave each son a ring, and each son believed that healone had inherited the original and true ring.But instead of harmony, the father's plan brought only discord to hisheirs. Shortly after the father died, each of the sons claimed to be thesole ruler of the father's house, each basing his claim to authority onthe ring given to him by the father. The discord grew even stronger andmore hateful when a close examination of the rings failed to disclose anydifferences."But wait," interrupted Saladin, "surely you do not mean to tell methat there are no differences between Islam, Judaism, andChristianity!""You are right, Sultan," replied Nathan. "Their teachings and practicesdiffer in ways that can be seen by all. However, in each case, theteachings and practices are based on beliefs and faith, beliefs and faiththat at their roots are the same. Which of us can prove that our beliefsand our faith are more reliable than those of others?""I understand," said Saladin. "Now continue with your tale.""The story is nearly at its end," replied Nathan.The dispute among the brothers grew until their case was finally broughtbefore a judge. After hearing the history of the original ring and itsmiraculous powers, the judge pronounced his conclusion: "The authenticring," he said, "had the power to make its owner beloved of God and man,but each of your rings has brought only hatred and strife. None of you isloved by others. each loves only himself. Therefore I must conclude thatnone of you has the original ring. Your father must have lost it, thenattempted to hide his loss by having three counterfeit rings made, andthese are the rings that cause you so much grief."The judge continued: "Or it may be that your father, weary of thetyranny of a single ring, made duplicates, which he gave to you. Let eachof you demonstrate his belief in the power of his ring by conducting hislife in such a manner that he fully merits   as anciently promised   thelove of God and man."Marvelous! Marvelous!" exclaimed Saladin. "Your tale has set my mindat rest. You may go.""Sultan, was there nothing else you wished from me?" asked Nathan."No. Nothing.""Then may I take the liberty to make a request of you. My trade of latehas brought me unexpected wealth, and in these uncertain times I need asecure repository. Would you be willing to accept my recent earnings asloan or deposit?"The Sultan gladly acceded to Nathan's wish.And thus Saladin gained from his wise Jewish subject both material andspiritual benefit, and Nathan the Wise found a safe haven for his wealthand earned the respect of the Islamic Sultan.