(25) From the Bukowinaer Tales and Legends. Von Wliolocki.There was once upon a time a man and his wife, and they had no children,which was a great grief to them. One winter's day, when the sun wasshining brightly, the couple were standing outside their cottage, andthe woman was looking at all the little icicles which hung from theroof. She sighed, and turning to her husband said, 'I wish I had as manychildren as there are icicles hanging there.' 'Nothing would please memore either,' replied her husband. Then a tiny icicle detached itselffrom the roof, and dropped into the woman's mouth, who swallowed it witha smile, and said, 'Perhaps I shall give birth to a snow child now!' Herhusband laughed at his wife's strange idea, and they went back into thehouse.But after a short time the woman gave birth to a little girl, who wasas white as snow and as cold as ice. If they brought the child anywherenear the fire, it screamed loudly till they put it back into some coolplace. The little maid throve wonderfully, and in a few months she couldrun about and speak. But she was not altogether easy to bring up, andgave her parents much trouble and anxiety, for all summer she insistedon spending in the cellar, and in the winter she would sleep outside inthe snow, and the colder it was the happier she seemed to be. Her fatherand mother called her simply 'Our Snow daughter,' and this name stuck toher all her life.One day her parents sat by the fire, talking over the extraordinarybehaviour of their daughter, who was disporting herself in the snowstormthat raged outside. The woman sighed deeply and said, 'I wish I hadgiven birth to a Fire son!' As she said these words, a spark from thebig wood fire flew into the woman's lap, and she said with a laugh, 'Nowperhaps I shall give birth to a Fire son!' The man laughed at his wife'swords, and thought it was a good joke. But he ceased to think it ajoke when his wife shortly afterwards gave birth to a boy, who screamedlustily till he was put quite close to the fire, and who nearly yelledhimself into a fit if the Snow daughter came anywhere near him. TheSnow daughter herself avoided him as much as she could, and always creptinto a corner as far away from him as possible. The parents called theboy simply 'Our Fire son,' a name which stuck to him all his life. Theyhad a great deal of trouble and worry with him too. but he throve andgrew very quickly, and before he was a year old he could run about andtalk. He was as red as fire, and as hot to touch, and he always sat onthe hearth quite close to the fire, and complained of the cold. if hissister were in the room he almost crept into the flames, while the girlon her part always complained of the great heat if her brother wereanywhere near. In summer the boy always lay out in the sun, while thegirl hid herself in the cellar: so it happened that the brother andsister came very little into contact with each other in fact, theycarefully avoided it.Just as the girl grew up into a beautiful woman, her father and motherboth died one after the other. Then the Fire son, who had grown up inthe meantime into a fine, strong young man, said to his sister, 'I amgoing out into the world, for what is the use of remaining on here?''I shall go with you,' she answered, 'for, except you, I have no one inthe world, and I have a feeling that if we set out together we shall belucky.'The Fire son said, 'I love you with all my heart, but at the same timeI always freeze if you are near me, and you nearly die of heat if Iapproach you! How shall we travel about together without being odiousthe one to the other?''Don't worry about that,' replied the girl, 'for I've thought it allover, and have settled on a plan which will make us each able to bearwith the other! See, I have had a fur cloak made for each of us, and ifwe put them on I shall not feel the heat so much nor you the cold.' Sothey put on the fur cloaks, and set out cheerfully on their way, and forthe first time in their lives quite happy in each other's company.For a long time the Fire son and the Snow daughter wandered through theworld, and when at the beginning of winter they came to a big wood theydetermined to stay there till spring. The Fire son built himself a hutwhere he always kept up a huge fire, while his sister with very fewclothes on stayed outside night and day. Now it happened one day thatthe King of the land held a hunt in this wood, and saw the Snow daughterwandering about in the open air. He wondered very much who the beautifulgirl clad in such garments could be, and he stopped and spoke to her.He soon learnt that she could not stand heat, and that her brother couldnot endure cold. The King was so charmed by the Snow daughter, that heasked her to be his wife. The girl consented, and the wedding was heldwith much state. The King had a huge house of ice made for his wifeunderground, so that even in summer it did not melt. But for hisbrother in law he had a house built with huge ovens all round it, thatwere kept heated all day and night. The Fire son was delighted, butthe perpetual heat in which he lived made his body so hot, that it wasdangerous to go too close to him.One day the King gave a great feast, and asked his brother in lawamong the other guests. The Fire son did not appear till everyone hadassembled, and when he did, everyone fled outside to the open air, sointense was the heat he gave forth. Then the King was very angry andsaid, 'If I had known what a lot of trouble you would have been, I wouldnever have taken you into my house.' Then the Fire son replied with alaugh, 'Don't be angry, dear brother! I love heat and my sister lovescold come here and let me embrace you, and then I'll go home at once.'And before the King had time to reply, the Fire son seized him in atight embrace. The King screamed aloud in agony, and when his wife, theSnow daughter, who had taken refuge from her brother in the next room,hurried to him, the King lay dead on the ground burnt to a cinder. Whenthe Snow daughter saw this she turned on her brother and flew at him.Then a fight began, the like of which had never been seen on earth. Whenthe people, attracted by the noise, hurried to the spot, they saw theSnow daughter melting into water and the Fire son burn to a cinder. Andso ended the unhappy brother and sister.