(19) From the Hungarian. Kletke.There was once upon a time a King and Queen who had everything theycould possibly wish for in this world except a child. At last, aftertwelve years, the Queen gave birth to a son. but she did not live longto enjoy her happiness, for on the following day she died. But beforeher death she called her husband to her and said, 'Never let the childput his feet on the ground, for as soon as he does so he will fall intothe power of a wicked Fairy, who will do him much harm.' And these werethe last words the poor Queen spoke.The boy throve and grew big, and when he was too heavy for his nurseto carry, a chair was made for him on little wheels, in which he couldwander through the palace gardens without help. at other times he wascarried about on a litter, and he was always carefully watched andguarded for fear he should at any time put his feet to the ground.But as this sort of life was bad for his health, the doctors ordered himhorse exercise, and he soon became a first rate rider, and used to goout for long excursions on horseback, accompanied always by his father'sstud groom and a numerous retinue.Every day he rode through the neighbouring fields and woods, and alwaysreturned home in the evening safe and well. In this way many yearspassed, and the Prince grew to manhood, and hardly anyone remembered theQueen's warning, though precautions were still taken, more from use andwont than for any other reason.One day the Prince and his suite went out for a ride in a wood where hisfather sometimes held a hunt. Their way led through a stream whose bankswere overgrown with thick brushwood. Just as the horsemen were aboutto ford the river, a hare, startled by the sound of the horses' hoofs,started up from the grass and ran towards the thicket. The young Princepursued the little creature, and had almost overtaken it, when the girthof his saddle suddenly broke in two and he fell heavily to the ground.No sooner had his foot touched the earth than he disappeared before theeyes of the horrified courtiers.They sought for him far and near, but all in vain, and they were forcedto recognise the power of the evil Fairy, against which the Queen hadwarned them on her death bed. The old King was much grieved when theybrought him the news of his son's disappearance, but as he could donothing to free him from his fate, he gave himself up to an old age ofgrief and loneliness, cherishing at the same time the hope that somelucky chance might one day deliver the youth out of the hands of hisenemy.Hardly had the Prince touched the ground than he felt himself violentlyseized by an unseen power, and hurried away he knew not whither. A wholenew world stretched out before him, quite unlike the one he had left.A splendid castle surrounded by a huge lake was the abode of the Fairy,and the only approach to it was over a bridge of clouds. On the otherside of the lake high mountains rose up, and dark woods stretchedalong the banks. over all hung a thick mist, and deep silence reignedeverywhere.No sooner had the Fairy reached her own domain than she made herselfvisible, and turning to the Prince she told him that unless he obeyedall her commands down to the minutest detail he would be severelypunished. Then she gave him an axe made of glass, and bade him cross thebridge of clouds and go into the wood beyond and cut down all the treesthere before sunset. At the same time she cautioned him with many angrywords against speaking to a black girl he would most likely meet in thewood.The Prince listened to her words meekly, and when she had finished tookup the glass axe and set out for the forest. At every step he seemed tosink into the clouds, but fear gave wings to his feet, and he crossedthe lake in safety and set to work at once.But no sooner had he struck the first blow with his axe than it brokeinto a thousand pieces against the tree. The poor youth was so terrifiedhe did not know what to do, for he was in mortal dread of the punishmentthe wicked old Fairy would inflict on him. He wandered to and fro in thewood, not knowing where he was going, and at last, worn out by fatigueand misery, he sank on the ground and fell fast asleep.He did not know how long he had slept when a sudden sound awoke him, andopening his eyes he saw a black girl standing beside him. Mindful ofthe Fairy's warning he did not dare to address her, but she on her partgreeted him in the most friendly manner, and asked him at once if hewere under the power of the wicked Fairy. The Prince nodded his headsilently in answer.Then the black girl told him that she too was in the power of the Fairy,who had doomed her to wander about in her present guise until some youthshould take pity on her and bear her in safety to the other side of theriver which they saw in the distance, and on the other side of which theFairy's domain and power ended.The girl's words so inspired the Prince with confidence that he told herall his tale of woe, and ended up by asking her advice as to how he wasto escape the punishment the Fairy would be sure to inflict on him whenshe discovered that he had not cut down the trees in the wood and thathe had broken her axe.'You must know,' answered the black girl, 'that the Fairy in whose powerwe both are is my own mother, but you must not betray this secret, forit would cost me my life. If you will only promise to try and free meI will stand by you, and will accomplish for you all the tasks which mymother sets you.'The Prince promised joyfully all she asked. then having once more warnedhim not to betray her confidence, she handed him a draught to drinkwhich very soon sunk his senses in a deep slumber.His astonishment was great when he awoke to find the glass axe whole andunbroken at his side, and all the trees of the wood lying felled aroundhim!He made all haste across the bridge of clouds, and told the Fairy thather commands were obeyed. She was much amazed when she heard that allthe wood was cut down, and saw the axe unbroken in his hand, andsince she could not believe that he had done all this by himself, shequestioned him narrowly if he had seen or spoken to the black girl. Butthe Prince lied manfully, and swore he had never looked up from his workfor a moment. Seeing she could get nothing more out of him, she gave hima little bread and water, and showing him to a small dark cupboard shetold him he might sleep there.Morning had hardly dawned when the Fairy awoke the Prince, and givinghim the glass axe again she told him to cut up all the wood he hadfelled the day before, and to put it in bundles ready for firewood. atthe same time she warned him once more against approaching or speaking aword to the black girl if he met her in the wood.Although his task was no easier than that of the day before, the youthset out much more cheerfully, because he knew he could count an the helpof the black girl. With quicker and lighter step he crossed the bridgeof clouds, and hardly had he reached the other side than his friendstood before him and greeted him cheerfully. When she heard what theFairy demanded this time, she answered smilingly, 'Never fear,' andhanded him another draught, which very soon caused the Prince to sinkinto a deep sleep.When he awoke everything, was done. All the trees of the wood were cutup into firewood and arranged in bundles ready for use.He returned to the castle as quickly as he could, and told the Fairythat her commands were obeyed. She was even more amazed than she hadbeen before, and asked him again if he had either seen or spoken to theblack girl. but the Prince knew better than to betray his word, and oncemore lied freely.On the following day the Fairy set him a third task to do, even harderthan the other two. She told him he must build a castle on the otherside of the lake, made of nothing but gold, silver, and precious stones,and unless he could accomplish this within an hour, the most frightfuldoom awaited him.The Prince heard her words without anxiety, so entirely did he rely onthe help of his black friend. Full of hope he hurried across the bridge,and recognised at once the spot where the castle was to stand, forspades, hammers, axes, and every other building implement lay scatteredon the ground ready for the workman's hand, but of gold, silver, andprecious stones there was not a sign. But before the Prince had timeto feel despondent the black girl beckoned to him in the distance frombehind a rock, where she had hidden herself for fear her mother shouldcatch sight of her. Full of joy the youth hurried towards her, andbegged her aid and counsel in the new piece of work he had been given todo.But this time the Fairy had watched the Prince's movements fromher window, and she saw him hiding himself behind the rock with herdaughter. She uttered a piercing shriek so that the mountains re echoedwith the sound of it, and the terrified pair had hardly dared to lookout from their hiding place when the enraged woman, with her dress andhair flying in the wind, hurried over the bridge of clouds. The Princeat once gave himself up for lost, but the girl told him to be of goodcourage and to follow her as quickly as he could. But before they lefttheir shelter she broke off a little bit of the rock, spoke some magicwords over it, and threw it in the direction her mother was coming from.In a moment a glittering palace arose before the eyes of the Fairy whichblinded her with its dazzling splendour, and with its many doors andpassages prevented her for some time from finding her way out of it.In the meantime the black girl hurried on with the Prince, hastening toreach the river, where once on the other side they would for ever be outof the wicked Fairy's power. But before they had accomplished half theway they heard again the rustle of her garments and her muttered cursespursuing them closely.The Prince was terrified. he dared not look back, and he felt hisstrength giving way. But before he had time to despair the girl utteredsome more magic words, and immediately she herself was changed into apond, and the Prince into a duck swimming on its surface.When the Fairy saw this her rage knew no bounds, and she used all hermagic wits to make the pond disappear. she caused a hill of sand toarise at her feet, meaning it to dry up the water at once. But the sandhill only drove the pond a little farther away, and its waters seemed toincrease instead of diminishing. When the old woman saw that the powersof her magic were of so little avail, she had recourse to cunning. Shethrew a lot of gold nuts into the pond, hoping in this way to catchthe duck, but all her efforts were fruitless, for the little creaturerefused to let itself be caught.Then a new idea struck the wicked old woman, and hiding herself behindthe rock which had sheltered the fugitives, she waited behind it,watching carefully for the moment when the Prince and her daughtershould resume their natural forms and continue their journey.She had not to wait long, for as soon as the girl thought her mother wassafely out of the way, she changed herself and the Prince once more intotheir human shape, and set out cheerfully for the river.But they had not gone many steps when the wicked Fairy hurried afterthem, a drawn dagger in her hand, and was close upon them, whensuddenly, instead of the Prince and her daughter, she found herself infront of a great stone church, whose entrance was carefully guarded by ahuge monk.Breathless with rage and passion, she tried to plunge her dagger intothe monk's heart, but it fell shattered in pieces at her feet. In herdesperation she determined to pull down the church, and thus to destroyher two victims for ever. She stamped three times on the ground, and theearth trembled, and both the church and the monk began to shake. As soonas the Fairy saw this she retreated to some distance from the building,so as not to be hurt herself by its fall. But once more her scheme wasdoomed to failure, for hardly had she gone a yard from the church thanboth it and the monk disappeared, and she found herself in a wood blackas night, and full of wolves and bears and wild animals of all sorts anddescriptions.Then her wrath gave place to terror, for she feared every moment to betorn in pieces by the beasts who one and all seemed to defy her power.She thought it wisest to make her way as best she could out of theforest, and then to pursue the fugitives once more and accomplish theirdestruction either by force or cunning.In the meantime the Prince and the black girl had again assumed theirnatural forms, and were hurrying on as fast as they could to reach theriver. But when they got there they found that there was no way in whichthey could cross it, and the girl's magic art seemed no longer tohave any power. Then turning to the Prince she said, 'The hour for mydeliverance has not yet come, but as you promised to do all you could tofree me, you must do exactly as I bid you now. Take this bow and arrowand kill every beast you see with them, and be sure you spare no livingcreature.'With these words she disappeared, and hardly had she done so than ahuge wild boar started out of the thicket near and made straight for thePrince. But the youth did not lose his presence of mind, and drawinghis bow he pierced the beast with his arrow right through the skull. Thecreature fell heavily on the ground, and out of its side sprang a littlehare, which ran like the wind along the river bank. The Prince drew hisbow once more, and the hare lay dead at his feet. but at the same momenta dove rose up in the air, and circled round the Prince's head in themost confiding manner. But mindful of the black girl's commands, hedared not spare the little creature's life, and taking another arrowfrom his quiver he laid it as dead as the boar and the hare. But whenhe went to look at the body of the bird he found instead of the dove around white egg lying on the ground.While he was gazing on it and wondering what it could mean, he heard thesweeping of wings above him, and looking up he saw a huge vulture withopen claws swooping down upon him. In a moment he seized the egg andflung it at the bird with all his might, and lo and behold! instead ofthe ugly monster the most beautiful girl he had ever seen stood beforethe astonished eyes of the Prince.But while all this was going on the wicked old Fairy had managed tomake her way out of the wood, and was now using the last resource in herpower to overtake her daughter and the Prince. As soon as she was in theopen again she mounted her chariot, which was drawn by a fiery dragon,and flew through the air in it. But just as she got to the river she sawthe two lovers in each other's arms swimming through the water as easilyas two fishes.Quick as lightning, and forgetful of every danger, she flew down uponthem. But the waters seized her chariot and sunk it in the lowestdepths, and the waves bore the wicked old woman down the stream till shewas caught in some thorn bushes, where she made a good meal for all thelittle fishes that were swimming about.And so at last the Prince and his lovely Bride were free. They hurriedas quickly as they could to the old King, who received them with joy andgladness. On the following day a most gorgeous wedding feast was held,and as far as we know the Prince and his bride lived happily for everafterwards.