Uncle Remus's little patron seemed to be so shocked at the burning ofthe woman (in the previous story, "How a Witch Was Caught") that the oldman plunged at once into a curious story about a little boy and his twodogs.One time there was a woman living alongside the big road, and thiswoman, she had one little boy. It seems to me that he must have been justabout your size. He might have been a little broader in the shoulders anda little longer in the legs, yet, take him up one side and down the other,he was just about your shape and size.He was a mighty smart little boy, and his mammy set lots by him. Itseems like she had never had any luck except with that boy, because therewas a time when she had a little gal, and bless your soul, somebody camealong and carried the little gal off, and the little boy didn't have alittle sister anymore. This made both of them mighty sorry, but it lookedlike the little boy was the sorriest, because he showed it the most.Some days he'd take a notion to go and hunt for his little sister, andthen he'd go down the big road and climb a big pine tree, and get clear tothe top, and look all around to see if he couldn't see his little sistersomewhere in the woods. He couldn't see her, but he'd stay up there in thetree and swing in the wind and allow to himself that maybe he might seeher by and by.One day while he was sitting up there, he saw two mighty fine ladieswalking down the road. He climbed down out of the tree, he did, and ranand told his mammy. The she up an asked, "How fine are they, honey?""Mighty fine, mammy, mighty fine: puffy out petticoats and long greenveils.""How do they look, honey?""Spick and span new, mammy.""They aren't any of our kin, are they, honey?""That they aren't, mammy. They are mighty fine ladies."The fine ladies, they came on down the road, they did, and stopped bythe woman's house, and begged to please give them some water. The littleboy, he ran and fetched them a gourd full, and they put the gourd undertheir veils and drank, and drank, and drank just like they were nearlyperished for water. The little boy watched them. Soon he hollered out,"Mammy, mammy! What do you reckon? They are lapping the water."The woman hollered back, "I reckon that's the way quality folks do,honey."Then the ladies begged for some bread, and the little boy took them apone. They ate it like they were mighty nigh famished for bread. By and bythe little boy hollered out and said, "Mammy, mammy! What do you reckon?They've got great long teeth."The woman, she hollered back, "I reckon all the quality folks have gotthem, honey."Then the ladies asked for some water to wash their hands, and thelittle boy brought them some. He watched them, and by and by he holleredout, "Mammy, mammy! What do you reckon? They've got hairy hands andarms."The woman, she hollered back, "I reckon all the quality folks have gotthem, honey."Then the ladies begged the woman to please let the little boy show themwhere the big road forks. But the little boy didn't want to go. Hehollered out, "Mammy, folks don't have to be shown where the road forks."But the woman, she allowed, "I reckon the quality folks do, honey."The little boy, he began to whimper and cry, because he didn't want togo with the ladies, but the woman said he ought to be ashamed of himselffor going on that way in front of the quality folks, and more than that,he might run into his little sister and fetch her home.Now this here little boy had two mighty bad dogs. One of them was namedMinnyminny Morack, and the other one was named Follerlinsko, and they wereso bad that they had to be tied in the yard day and night, except whenthey were a hunting. So the little boy, he went and got a pan of water andset in down in the middle of the floor, and then he went and got himself awillow limb, and he stuck it in the ground.Then he allowed, "Mammy, when the water in this here pan turns toblood, then you run out and set loose Minnyminny Morack and Follerlinsko,and when you see that there willow limb a shaking, you run and sick themon my track."The woman, she up and said, she'd turn the dogs loose, and then thelittle boy, he stuck his hands in his pockets and went on down the roada whistling, just the same as any other little boy, except that he was alot smarter. He went on down the road, he did, and the fine qualityladies, they came on behind.The further he went the faster he walked. This made the quality ladieswalk fast too, and it wasn't so mighty long before the little boy heardthem making a mighty curious fuss, and when he turned around, blessgracious! they were a panting, because they were so tired and hot. Thelittle boy allowed to himself that it was mighty curious how ladies couldpant the same as a wild varmint, but he said he expected that was the wayquality ladies do when they get hot and tired, and he made like hecouldn't hear them, because he wanted to be nice and polite.After a while, when the quality ladies thought the little boy wasn'tlooking at them, he saw one of them drop down on her all fours and trotalong just like a varmint, and it wasn't long before the other one droppeddown on her all fours. Then the little boy allowed, "Shoo! If that is theway quality ladies rest themselves when they get tired, I reckon a littlechap about my size had better be fixing to rest himself."So he looked around, he did, and he took and picked himself out a greatbig pine tree by the side of the road, and began to climb it. Then, whenthey saw that, one of the quality ladies allowed, "My goodness! What inthe world are you up to now?"The little boy, he said, "I'm just a climbing a tree to rest mybones."The ladies, they allowed, "Why don't you rest them on the ground?"The little boy, he said, "Because I want to get up where it is cool andhigh."The quality ladies, they took and walked around and around the treelike they were measuring it to see how big it was. By and by, after awhile, they said, "Little boy, little boy! You'd better come down fromthere and show us the way to the forks of the road."Then the little boy allowed, "Just keep right on, ladies. You'll findthe forks of the road. You can't miss them. I'm afraid to come down,because I might fall and hurt one of you all."The ladies, they said, "You'd better come down before we run and tellyour mammy how bad your are."The little boy allowed, "While you are telling her, please tell her howscared I am."The quality ladies got mighty mad. They walked around that tree andfairly snorted. They pulled off their bonnets, and their veils, and theirdresses, and, lo and behold, the little boy saw that they were two greatbig panthers. They had great big eyes, and big sharp teeth, and great longtails, and they looked up at the little boy and growled and grinned at himuntil he mighty nigh had a chill. They tried to climb the tree, but theyhad trimmed their claws so they could get gloves on, and they couldn'tclimb any more.Then one of them sat down in the road and made a curious mark in thesand, and their great long tales turned into axes, and no sooner did thetails turn into axes than they began to cut the tree down. I don't daretell you how sharp those axes were, because you wouldn't nigh believe me.One of them stood on one side of the tree, and the other one stood on theother side, and they whacked at that tree like they were taking a holiday.They whacked out chips as big as your hat, and it wasn't so mighty longbefore the tree was ready to fall.But while the little boy was sitting up there, scared mighty nigh todeath, it came into his mind that he had some eggs in his pocket that hehad brought with him to eat whenever he got hungry. He took out one of theeggs and broke it, and said, "Place fill up!" And bless your soul, theplace sure enough filled up, and the tree looked just exactly like nobodyhad been a cutting on it.But them there panthers, they were very vigorous. They just spit ontheir hands and cut away. When they got the tree mighty nigh cut down, thelittle boy, he pulled out another egg and broke it, and said, "Place, fillup!" And by the time he said it, the tree was done made sound again. Theykept on this a way until the little boy began to get scared again. He hadbroken all his eggs except one, and them there creatures were a cuttingaway like they were venomous, which they most surely were.Just about that time the little boy's mammy happened to stumble overthe pan of water that was sitting down on the floor, and there it was, allturned to blood. Then she ran and unloosed Minnyminny Morack andFollerlinsko. Then when she did that she saw the willow limb a shaking,and then she put the dogs on the little boy's track, and away theywent.The little boy heard them a coming, and he hollered out, "Come on, mygood dogs. Here, dogs, here."The panthers, they stopped chopping and listened. One asked the otherone what she could hear. The little boy said, "You don't hear anything. Goon with your chopping."The panthers, they chopped some more, and then they thought they heardthe dogs a coming. Then they tried their best to get away, but it wasn'tany use. They didn't have time to change their axes back into tails, andbecause they couldn't run with axes dragging behind them, the dogs caughtthem.The little boy, he allowed, "Shake them and bite them. Drag them aroundand around, until you drag them two miles." So the dogs dragged themaround for two miles.Then the little boy said, "Shake them and tear them. Drag them aroundand around, until you drag them ten miles." They dragged them ten miles,and by the time they got back, the panthers were cold and stiff.Then the little boy climbed down out of the tree and sat down to resthimself. By and by, after a while, he allowed to himself that beings hewas having so much fun, he believed he'd take his dogs and go way off intothe woods to see if he couldn't find his little sister. He called hisdogs, he did, and went off into the woods, and they hadn't gone so mightyfar before he saw a house in the woods away off by itself.The dogs, they went up and smelled around, they did, and came back withtheir bristles up, but the little boy allowed he'd go up there anyhow andsee what the dogs were mad about. So he called the dogs and went towardsthe house, and when he got close up he saw a little gal toting wood andwater. She was a might pretty little gal, because she had milk white skinand great long yellow hair, but her clothes were all in rags, and she wascrying because she had to work so hard. Minnyminny Morack and Follerlinskowagged their tales when they saw the little gal, and the little boy knewby that that she was his sister.So he went up and asked her what her name was, and she said she didn'tknow what her name was, because she was so scared she forgot. Then heasked her what in the name of goodness she was crying about, and she saidshe was crying because she had to work so hard. Then he asked her who thehouse belonged to, and she allowed it belonged to a great big old blackbear, and this old bear made her tote wood and water all the time. Shesaid the water was to go into the big wash pot, and the wood was to makethe pot boil, and the pot was to cook folks that the great big old bearbrought home to his children.The little boy didn't tell the little gal that he was her brother, buthe allowed that he was going to stay and eat supper with the big old bear.The little gal cried and allowed he'd better not, but the little boysaid he wasn't afraid to eat supper with a bear. So they went into thehouse, and when the little boy got in there, he saw that the bear had twogreat big children, and one of them was squatting on the bed, and theother one was squatting down in the hearth. The children were both namedCubs for short, but the little boy wasn't scared of them, because therewere his dogs to do away with them if they so much as rolled aneyeball.The old bear was a mighty long time coming back, so the little gal, sheup and fixed supper anyhow, and the little boy, he scrounged from Cubsfirst on one side and then on the other, and he and the little gal got asmuch as they wanted. After supper the little boy told the little gal thathe'd take and comb her hair just to while away the time. But the littlegal's hair hadn't been combed for so long, and it was in such a tangle,that it made the poor creature cry to hear anybody talking about combingit. Then the little boy allowed he wasn't going to hurt her, and he tookand warmed some water in a pan and put it on her hair, and then he combedand curled it, just as nice you ever did see.When the old bear got home he was mighty taken back when he saw he hadcompany, and when he saw them all sitting down like they had come to stay.But he was mighty polite, and he shook hands all around, and sat down bythe fire and dried his boots, and asked about the crops, and allowed thatthe weather would be monstrous fine if they could get a little season ofrain.Then he took and made a great admiration over the little gal's hair,and he asked the little boy how in the whole world he could curl it andfix it so nice. The little one allowed it was easy enough. Then the oldbear said he believed he would like to get his hair curled up that way,and the little boy said, "Fill the big pot with water."The old bear filled the pot with water. Then the little boy said,"Build a fire under the pot and heat the water hot."When the water got scalding hot, the little boy said, "All ready now.Stick your head in. It's the only way to make your hair curl."Then the old bear stuck his head in the water, and that was the last ofhim, bless gracious! The scalding water curled the hair until it came off,and I suspect that is where they got the idea about putting bear grease onfolks's hair. The young bears, they cried like everything when they sawhow their daddy had been treated, and they wanted to bite and scratch thelittle boy and his sister, but those dogs   Minnyminny Morack andFollerlinsko   they just laid hold of them there bears, and there wasn'tenough left of them to feed a kitten."What did they do then?" asked the little boy who had been listening tothe story.The old man took off his spectacles and cleaned the glasses on hiscoattail. "Well, sir," he went on, "the little boy took and carried hissister home, and his mammy said that she never again would set any storeby folks with fine clothes, because they were so deceitful. No, never, solong as the Lord might spare her. And then after that they lived togetherright straight along, and if it hadn't been for the war, they'd bea living there now. Because war is a mighty dangerous business."