Many years ago there lived an emperor who loved beautiful new clothesso much that he spent all his money on being finely dressed. His onlyinterest was in going to the theater or in riding about in his carriagewhere he could show off his new clothes. He had a different costume forevery hour of the day. Indeed, where it was said of other kings that theywere at court, it could only be said of him that he was in his dressingroom!One day two swindlers came to the emperor's city. They said that theywere weavers, claiming that they knew how to make the finest clothimaginable. Not only were the colors and the patterns extraordinarilybeautiful, but in addition, this material had the amazing property that itwas to be invisible to anyone who was incompetent or stupid."It would be wonderful to have clothes made from that cloth," thoughtthe emperor. "Then I would know which of my men are unfit for theirpositions, and I'd also be able to tell clever people from stupid ones."So he immediately gave the two swindlers a great sum of money to weavetheir cloth for him.They set up their looms and pretended to go to work, although there wasnothing at all on the looms. They asked for the finest silk and the purestgold, all of which they hid away, continuing to work on the empty looms,often late into the night."I would really like to know how they are coming with the cloth!"thought the emperor, but he was a bit uneasy when he recalled that anyonewho was unfit for his position or stupid would not be able to see thematerial. Of course, he himself had nothing to fear, but still he decidedto send someone else to see how the work was progressing."I'll send my honest old minister to the weavers," thought the emperor.He's the best one to see how the material is coming. He is very sensible,and no one is more worthy of his position than he.So the good old minister went into the hall where the two swindlers satworking at their empty looms. "Goodness!" thought the old minister,opening his eyes wide. "I cannot see a thing!" But he did not say so.The two swindlers invited him to step closer, asking him if it wasn't abeautiful design and if the colors weren't magnificent. They pointed tothe empty loom, and the poor old minister opened his eyes wider and wider.He still could see nothing, for nothing was there. "Gracious" he thought."Is it possible that I am stupid? I have never thought so. Am I unfit formy position? No one must know this. No, it will never do for me to saythat I was unable to see the material.""You aren't saying anything!" said one of the weavers."Oh, it is magnificent! The very best!" said the old minister, peeringthrough his glasses. "This pattern and these colors! Yes, I'll tell theemperor that I am very satisfied with it!""That makes us happy!" said the two weavers, and they called the colorsand the unusual pattern by name. The old minister listened closely so thathe would be able say the same things when he reported back to the emperor,and that is exactly what he did.The swindlers now asked for more money, more silk, and more gold, allof which they hid away. Then they continued to weave away as before on theempty looms.The emperor sent other officials as well to observe the weavers'progress. They too were startled when they saw nothing, and they tooreported back to him how wonderful the material was, advising him to haveit made into clothes that he could wear in a grand procession. The entirecity was alive in praise of the cloth. "Magnifique! Nysseligt! Excellent!"they said, in all languages. The emperor awarded the swindlers with medalsof honor, bestowing on each of them the title Lord Weaver.The swindlers stayed up the entire night before the procession was totake place, burning more than sixteen candles. Everyone could see thatthey were in a great rush to finish the emperor's new clothes. Theypretended to take the material from the looms. They cut in the air withlarge scissors. They sewed with needles but without any thread. Finallythey announced, "Behold! The clothes are finished!"The emperor came to them with his most distinguished cavaliers. The twoswindlers raised their arms as though they were holding something andsaid, "Just look at these trousers! Here is the jacket! This is thecloak!" and so forth. "They are as light as spider webs! You might thinkthat you didn't have a thing on, but that is the good thing aboutthem.""Yes," said the cavaliers, but they couldn't see a thing, for nothingwas there."Would his imperial majesty, if it please his grace, kindly remove hisclothes." said the swindlers. "Then we will fit you with the new ones,here in front of the large mirror."The emperor took off all his clothes, and the swindlers pretended todress him, piece by piece, with the new ones that were to be fitted. Theytook hold of his waist and pretended to tie something about him. It wasthe train. Then the emperor turned and looked into the mirror."Goodness, they suit you well! What a wonderful fit!" they all said."What a pattern! What colors! Such luxurious clothes!""The canopy to be carried above your majesty awaits outside," said thegrandmaster of ceremonies."Yes, I am ready!" said the emperor. "Don't they fit well?" He turnedonce again toward the mirror, because it had to appear as though he wereadmiring himself in all his glory.The chamberlains who were to carry the train held their hands justabove the floor as if they were picking up the train. As they walked theypretended to hold the train high, for they could not let anyone noticethat they could see nothing.The emperor walked beneath the beautiful canopy in the procession, andall the people in the street and in their windows said, "Goodness, theemperor's new clothes are incomparable! What a beautiful train on hisjacket. What a perfect fit!" No one wanted it to be noticed that he couldsee nothing, for then it would be said that he was unfit for his positionor that he was stupid. None of the emperor's clothes had ever beforereceived such praise."But he doesn't have anything on!" said a small child."Good Lord, let us hear the voice of an innocent child!" said thefather, and whispered to another what the child had said."A small child said that he doesn't have anything on!"Finally everyone was saying, "He doesn't have anything on!"The emperor shuddered, for he knew that they were right, but hethought, "The procession must go on!" He carried himself even moreproudly, and the chamberlains walked along behind carrying the train thatwasn't there.