Once a weaver, who was in want of work, took service with a certainfarmer as a shepherd.The farmer, knowing that the man was very slow witted, gave him mostcareful instructions as to everything that he was to do.Finally he said: 'If a wolf or any wild animal attempts to hurt theflock you should pick up a big stone like this' (suiting the action tothe word) 'and throw a few such at him, and he will be afraid and goaway.' The weaver said that he understood, and started with the flocksto the hillsides where they grazed all day.By chance in the afternoon a leopard appeared, and the weaver instantlyran home as fast as he could to get the stones which the farmer hadshown him, to throw at the creature. When he came back all the flockwere scattered or killed, and when the farmer heard the tale he beathim soundly. 'Were there no stones on the hillside that you should runback to get them, you senseless one?' he cried. 'you are not fit toherd sheep. To day you shall stay at home and mind my old mother whois sick, perhaps you will be able to drive flies off her face, if youcan't drive beasts away from sheep!'So, the next day, the weaver was left at home to take care of thefarmer's old sick mother. Now as she lay outside on a bed, it turnedout that the flies became very troublesome, and the weaver looked roundfor something to drive them away with. and as he had been told to pickup the nearest stone to drive the beasts away from the flock, hethought he would this time show how cleverly he could obey orders.Accordingly he seized the nearest stone, which was a big, heavy one,and dashed it at the flies. but, unhappily, he slew the poor old womanalso. and then, being afraid of the wrath of the farmer, he fled andwas not seen again in that neighbourhood.All that day and all the next night he walked, and at length he came toa village where a great many weavers lived together.'You are welcome,' said they. 'Eat and sleep, for to morrow six of usstart in search of fresh wool to weave, and we pray you to give us yourcompany.''Willingly,' answered the weaver. So the next morning the sevenweavers set out to go to the village where they could buy what theywanted. On the way they had to cross a ravine which lately had beenfull of water, but now was quite dry. The weavers, however, wereaccustomed to swim over this ravine. therefore, regardless of the factthat this time it was dry, they stripped, and, tying their clothes ontheir heads, they proceeded to swim across the dry sand and rocks thatformed the bed of the ravine. Thus they got to the other side withoutfurther damage than bruised knees and elbows, and as soon as they wereover, one of them began to count the party to make sure that all weresafe there. He counted all except himself, and then cried out thatsomebody was missing! This set each of them counting. but each madethe same mistake of counting all except himself, so that they becamecertain that one of their party was missing! They ran up and down thebank of the ravine wringing their hands in great distress and lookingfor signs of their lost comrade. There a farmer found them and askedwhat was the matter. 'Alas!' said one, 'seven of us started from theother bank and one must have been drowned on the crossing, as we canonly find six remaining!' The farmer eyed them a minute, and then,picking up his stick, he dealt each a sounding blow, counting, as hedid so, 'One! two! three!' and so on up to the seven. When the weaversfound that there were seven of them they were overcome with gratitudeto one whom they took for a magician as he could thus make seven out ofan obvious six.