A Brahman wrote seven stanzas in praise of his king's copper coloredsilk robes. Seven men heard these stanzas and resolved to trick a foolishking from another city.Traveling to that city, the seven men said to theking, "Maharaja, what sort of robe is your majesty wearing? We have wovena copper colored silk robe for the king of our city. It is like the thinsilk robes from the divine world. In comparison to our king, you look likeone of his servants." Thus spoke the seven men.These words brought shame to the king. Thus filled with shame, hethought to himself, "I too am a king. Can I not have such robes woven forme as well?" Then he asked, "What would you require to weave such silkrobes?"The seven men replied, "You must obtain good silk thread and give it tous. Then construct for us a place in your festival garden and provide uswith food and drink." Then they added, "The silk cloth that we weave isnot visible to a low born person. only a well born person can see it."So the king procured silk thread for the men. The men took it to thefestival garden and put it away.People came to the festival garden to look at the copper colored silkrobe. The seven men were there at work. The people could see their motionsof weaving, cutting, and stitching, but the silk robe itself was notvisible. Hence each man thought to himself, "I must be low born, for Icannot see this copper colored silk robe."And what if these were their thoughts! Each person kept them tohimself, and no one uttered them aloud.The king sent a messenger to see if the robe was finished. He saw theseven men's motions of weaving and stitching, but the robe itself was notvisible. "If I report that I did not see the robe, they will say that I amthe son of a courtesan," he thought.To hide his shame, the messenger returned to the royal house and said,"The men are weaving a priceless robe, but the work is not yet finished.Once finished, they will dress your honor in the robe."Because of the messenger's statement, many people went to look at therobe, but in spite of the workers' motions, the robe was not visible toanyone. Fearing that others would call them illegitimate, they all said,"We see it. It is indeed a very costly robe." And they went away.After seven days the king himself went to look at the silk robe. Helooked, but it was not visible to him either. He uttered not a word thathe could not see it.Afterward the seven men came to the king and said, "We have woven foryou the copper colored silk robe. It is finished." Then they added, "Getout all the clothes that you have inherited from seven generations ofancestors. After we have dressed you in the new robe you must give us allthose other clothes."Thus the king took out all the vestments from his ancestors and gavethem and all his other clothes to the seven men.After receiving all the clothes, the seven men surrounded the king andtold him that they were putting on him the copper colored silk clothing.They stroked his head, saying that they were putting on the crown. Theystroked his arms, saying that they were putting on the jacket. In the samemanner they stroked all parts of his body, saying that they were dressinghim.Then they brought the king into the middle of a great procession andannounced to the citizens, "Neither his majesty our king, nor any otherperson within this procession has ever worn or even seen such clothing asthis. In celebration of the king's new robe, let him sit atop the festivalelephant and be carried throughout the entire city and then back to theroyal house!"Having said this, they brought forth the elephant, seated the nakedking upon it, and started him on his procession throughout the city.But the seven men took goods from his house and went away. And thefoolish king remained without clothes.