Once upon a time there lived an old man and his wife in a dirty,tumble down cottage, not very far from the splendid palace where theking and queen dwelt. In spite of the wretched state of the hut, whichmany people declared was too bad even for a pig to live in, the old manwas very rich, for he was a great miser, and lucky besides, and wouldoften go without food all day sooner than change one of his beloved goldpieces.But after a while he found that he had starved himself once too often.He fell ill, and had no strength to get well again, and in a few days hedied, leaving his wife and one son behind him.The night following his death, the son dreamed that an unknown manappeared to him and said: 'Listen to me. your father is dead and yourmother will soon die, and all their riches will belong to you. Half ofhis wealth is ill gotten, and this you must give back to the poor fromwhom he squeezed it. The other half you must throw into the sea. Watch,however, as the money sinks into the water, and if anything should swim,catch it and keep it, even if it is nothing more than a bit of paper.'Then the man vanished, and the youth awoke.The remembrance of his dream troubled him greatly. He did not want topart with the riches that his father had left him, for he had known allhis life what it was to be cold and hungry, and now he had hoped for alittle comfort and pleasure. Still, he was honest and good hearted, andif his father had come wrongfully by his wealth he felt he could neverenjoy it, and at last he made up his mind to do as he had been bidden.He found out who were the people who were poorest in the village, andspent half of his money in helping them, and the other half he put inhis pocket. From a rock that jutted right out into the sea he flung itin. In a moment it was out of sight, and no man could have told thespot where it had sunk, except for a tiny scrap of paper floating onthe water. He stretched down carefully and managed to reach it, andon opening it found six shillings wrapped inside. This was now all themoney he had in the world.The young man stood and looked at it thoughtfully. 'Well, I can't domuch with this,' he said to himself. but, after all, six shillings werebetter than nothing, and he wrapped them up again and slipped them intohis coat.He worked in his garden for the next few weeks, and he and his mothercontrived to live on the fruit and vegetables he got out of it, and thenshe too died suddenly. The poor fellow felt very sad when he had laidher in her grave, and with a heavy heart he wandered into the forest,not knowing where he was going. By and by he began to get hungry, andseeing a small hut in front of him, he knocked at the door and asked ifthey could give him some milk. The old woman who opened it begged himto come in, adding kindly, that if he wanted a night's lodging he mighthave it without its costing him anything.Two women and three men were at supper when he entered, and silentlymade room for him to sit down by them. When he had eaten he began tolook about him, and was surprised to see an animal sitting by the firedifferent from anything he had ever noticed before. It was grey incolour, and not very big. but its eyes were large and very bright, andit seemed to be singing in an odd way, quite unlike any animal in theforest. 'What is the name of that strange little creature?' asked he.And they answered, 'We call it a cat.''I should like to buy it if it is not too dear,' said the young man.'it would be company for me.' And they told him that he might have itfor six shillings, if he cared to give so much. The young man took outhis precious bit of paper, handed them the six shillings, and the nextmorning bade them farewell, with the cat lying snugly in his cloak.For the whole day they wandered through meadows and forests, till in theevening they reached a house. The young fellow knocked at the doorand asked the old man who opened it if he could rest there that night,adding that he had no money to pay for it. 'Then I must give it to you,'answered the man, and led him into a room where two women and two menwere sitting at supper. One of the women was the old man's wife, theother his daughter. He placed the cat on the mantel shelf, and they allcrowded round to examine this strange beast, and the cat rubbed itselfagainst them, and held out its paw, and sang to them. and the women weredelighted, and gave it everything that a cat could eat, and a great dealmore besides.After hearing the youth's story, and how he had nothing in the worldleft him except his cat, the old man advised him to go to the palace,which was only a few miles distant, and take counsel of the king, whowas kind to everyone, and would certainly be his friend. The young manthanked him, and said he would gladly take his advice. and early nextmorning he set out for the royal palace.He sent a message to the king to beg for an audience, and received areply that he was to go into the great hall, where he would find hisMajesty.The king was at dinner with his court when the young man entered, andhe signed to him to come near. The youth bowed low, and then gazed insurprise at the crowd of little black creatures who were running aboutthe floor, and even on the table itself. Indeed, they were so bold thatthey snatched pieces of food from the King's own plate, and if he drovethem away, tried to bite his hands, so that he could not eat his food,and his courtiers fared no better.'What sort of animals are these?' asked the youth of one of the ladiessitting near him.'They are called rats,' answered the king, who had overheard thequestion, 'and for years we have tried some way of putting an end tothem, but it is impossible. They come into our very beds.'At this moment something was seen flying through the air. The cat was onthe table, and with two or three shakes a number of rats were lyingdead round him. Then a great scuffling of feet was heard, and in a fewminutes the hall was clear.For some minutes the King and his courtiers only looked at each other inastonishment. 'What kind of animal is that which can work magic of thissort?' asked he. And the young man told him that it was called a cat,and that he had bought it for six shillings.And the King answered: 'Because of the luck you have brought me, infreeing my palace from the plague which has tormented me for many years,I will give you the choice of two things. Either you shall be my PrimeMinister, or else you shall marry my daughter and reign after me. Say,which shall it be?''The princess and the kingdom,' said the young man.And so it was.