The PanchatantraIn the city of Radschagriha there lived a Brahman by the name ofDevasarman. His childless wife wept bitterly whenever she saw theneighbors' children. One day the Brahman said to her, "Dear one, stop yourgrieving. Behold, I was offering a sacrifice for the birth of a son whenan invisible being said to me in the clearest words, 'Brahman, you shallbe granted this son, and he shall surpass all men in beauty and virtue,and good fortune shall be his.'"After hearing this, the Brahman's wife was overjoyed, and she said,"Such promises must come true." In the course of time she became pregnantand gave birth to a snake. When her attendants saw it, they all cried out,"Throw it away!" However, she paid no attention to them, but insteadpicked it up, had it bathed, and   filled with a mother's love toward herson   laid it in a large, clean container, fed it milk, fresh butter, andthe like, so that within a few days it had reached its full growth.Once when the Brahman's wife witnessed the wedding feast of aneighbor's son, her eyes clouded over with tears, and she said to herhusband, "You treat me with contempt, because you are not making anyeffort at all to arrange a wedding for my dear child!"When he heard this, the Brahman said, "Honored one! To achieve that Iwould have to go to the depths of hell and beseech Pasuki, the King ofSnakes, for who else, you fool, would give his daughter in marriage to asnake?"Having said this, he looked at his wife with her exceedingly sad face,and   for the sake of her love and in order to pacify her   he took sometravel provisions and departed for a foreign land. After traveling aboutfor several months he came to a place by the name of Kukutanagara. There,as evening fell, he was received by an acquaintance, a member of hiscaste. He was given a bath, food, and every necessity, and he spent thenight there.The next morning he took leave and was preparing to set forth onceagain, when his host said, "What brought you to this place, and where areyou going now?"The Brahman answered, "I have come to seek an appropriate bride for myson."After hearing this, the host said, "If that is the case, then I have avery appropriate daughter. I have only respect for you. Take her for yourson!" Acting upon these words, the Brahman took the girl, together withher servants, and returned to his home city. However, when the inhabitantsof this region saw the girl, who was beautiful, gifted, and charmingbeyond comparison, they opened their eyes wide with love for her, and saidto her attendants, "How could you deliver such a jewel of a girl to asnake?"After hearing this, all of her companions were horrified, and theysaid, "She must be rescued from the murderer set up by this oldBrahman."Hearing this, the maiden said, "Spare me from such deception, forbehold:Kings speak but once. The virtuous speak butonce. A girl is promised in marriage but once. These three things happenbut once.And further:Not even wise men and gods can change the decreesof fate.And moreover, my father shall not be reproached for hisdaughter's falseness."Having said that, and with the permission of her attendants, shemarried the snake. She showed him proper respect, and served him milk andsimilar things.One night the snake left his large basket, which was kept in thebedroom, and climbed into his wife's bed. She cried out, "Who is thiscreature, shaped like a man?"Thinking it was a strange man, she jumped up. Shaking all over, shetore open the door and wanted to rush away, when the snake said, "Dearone! Stay here! I am your husband!" To convince her of this, he once againentered the body that he had left in the basket, then left it again. Hewas wearing a magnificent diadem, rings, bands, and bracelets on his upperand lower arms. His wife fell at his feet. Then together they partook ofthe joys of love.His father, the Brahman, had arisen earlier than his son, and saweverything. He took the snake skin, which was lying in the basket, andburned it in the fire, saying, "He shall not enter it again." Later thatmorning, filled with joy, he presented his son to his family. Vitalized byunending love, he became an ideal son.