Once upon a time there was a young lady called Lady Mary, who had twobrothers. One summer they all three went to a country seat of theirs,which they had not before visited. Among the other gentry in theneighborhood who came to see them was a Mr. Fox, a bachelor, with whomthey, particularly the young lady, were much pleased. He used often todine with them, and frequently invited Lady Mary to come and see hishouse. One day that her brothers were absent elsewhere, and she hadnothing better to do, she determined to go thither, and accordingly setout unattended. When she arrived at the house and knocked at the door, noone answered.At length she opened it and went in. over the portal of the door waswritten: "Be bold, be bold, but not too bold." She advanced. over thestaircase was the same inscription. She went up. over the entrance of agallery, the same again. Still she went on, and over the door of a chamberfound written:Be bold, be bold, but not too bold,Lest that your heart's blood should run cold!She opened it. it was full of skeletons and tubs of blood. She retreatedin haste, and, coming downstairs, saw from a window Mr. Fox advancingtowards the house with a drawn sword in one hand, while with the other hedragged along a young lady by her hair. Lady Mary had just time to slipdown and hide herself under the stairs before Mr. Fox and his victimarrived at the foot of them. As he pulled the young lady upstairs, shecaught hold of one of the banisters with her hand, on which was a richbracelet. Mr. Fox cut it off with his sword. The hand and bracelet fellinto Lady Mary's lap, who then contrived to escape unobserved, and gotsafe home to her brothers' house.A few days afterwards Mr. Fox came to dine with them as usual. Afterdinner the guests began to amuse each other with extraordinary anecdotes,and Lady Mary said she would relate to them a remarkable dream she hadlately had."I dreamt," said she, "that as you, Mr. Fox, had often invited me toyour house, I would go there one morning. When I came to the house Iknocked at the door, but no one answered. When I opened the door, over thehall I saw written, 'Be bold, be bold, but not too bold.' But," said she,turning to Mr. Fox, and smiling, "It is not so, nor it was not so."Then she pursued the rest of the story, concluding at every turn with,"It is not so, nor it was not so," until she came to the room full ofskeletons, when Mr. Fox took up the burden of the tale, and said:It is not so, nor it was not so,And God forbid it should be so!which he continued to repeat at every subsequent turn of the dreadfulstory, until she came to the circumstance of his cutting off the younglady's hand, when, upon his saying, as usual:It is not so, nor it was not so,And God forbid it should be so!Lady Mary retorts by saying:But it is so, and it was so,And here the hand I have to show!at the same moment producing the hand and bracelet from her lap, whereuponthe guests drew their swords, and instantly cut Mr. Fox into a thousandpieces.