Once upon a time there was a woman who had three sons. Though theywere peasants they were well off, for the soil on which they lived wasfruitful, and yielded rich crops. One day they all three told theirmother they meant to get married. To which their mother replied: 'Doas you like, but see that you choose good housewives, who will lookcarefully after your affairs. and, to make certain of this, take withyou these three skeins of flax, and give it to them to spin. Whoeverspins the best will be my favourite daughter in law.'Now the two eldest sons had already chosen their wives. so they took theflax from their mother, and carried it off with them, to have it spunas she had said. But the youngest son was puzzled what to do with hisskein, as he knew no girl (never having spoken to any) to whom he couldgive it to be spun. He wandered hither and thither, asking the girlsthat he met if they would undertake the task for him, but at the sightof the flax they laughed in his face and mocked at him. Then in despairhe left their villages, and went out into the country, and, seatinghimself on the bank of a pond began to cry bitterly.Suddenly there was a noise close beside him, and a frog jumped out ofthe water on to the bank and asked him why he was crying. The youth toldher of his trouble, and how his brothers would bring home linen spun forthem by their promised wives, but that no one would spin his thread.Then the frog answered: 'Do not weep on that account. give me thethread, and I will spin it for you.' And, having said this, she tookit out of his hand, and flopped back into the water, and the youth wentback, not knowing what would happen next.In a short time the two elder brothers came home, and their mother askedto see the linen which had been woven out of the skeins of flax she hadgiven them. They all three left the room. and in a few minutes the twoeldest returned, bringing with them the linen that had been spun bytheir chosen wives. But the youngest brother was greatly troubled, forhe had nothing to show for the skein of flax that had been given to him.Sadly he betook himself to the pond, and sitting down on the bank, beganto weep.Flop! and the frog appeared out of the water close beside him.'Take this,' she said. 'here is the linen that I have spun for you.'You may imagine how delighted the youth was. She put the linen into hishands, and he took it straight back to his mother, who was so pleasedwith it that she declared she had never seen linen so beautifully spun,and that it was far finer and whiter than the webs that the two elderbrothers had brought home.Then she turned to her sons and said: 'But this is not enough, my sons,I must have another proof as to what sort of wives you have chosen. Inthe house there are three puppies. Each of you take one, and give it tothe woman whom you mean to bring home as your wife. She must train itand bring it up. Whichever dog turns out the best, its mistress will bemy favourite daughter in law.'So the young men set out on their different ways, each taking a puppywith him. The youngest, not knowing where to go, returned to the pond,sat down once more on the bank, and began to weep.Flop! and close beside him, he saw the frog. 'Why are you weeping?' shesaid. Then he told her his difficulty, and that he did not know to whomhe should take the puppy.'Give it to me,' she said, 'and I will bring it up for you.' And, seeingthat the youth hesitated, she took the little creature out of his arms,and disappeared with it into the pond.The weeks and months passed, till one day the mother said she would liketo see how the dogs had been trained by her future daughters in law. Thetwo eldest sons departed, and returned shortly, leading with them twogreat mastiffs, who growled so fiercely, and looked so savage, that themere sight of them made the mother tremble with fear.The youngest son, as was his custom, went to the pond, and called on thefrog to come to his rescue.In a minute she was at his side, bringing with her the most lovelylittle dog, which she put into his arms. It sat up and begged with itspaws, and went through the prettiest tricks, and was almost human in theway it understood and did what it was told.In high spirits the youth carried it off to his mother. As soon as shesaw it, she exclaimed: 'This is the most beautiful little dog I haveever seen. You are indeed fortunate, my son. you have won a pearl of awife.'Then, turning to the others, she said: 'Here are three shirts. takethem to your chosen wives. Whoever sews the best will be my favouritedaughter in law.'So the young men set out once more. and again, this time, the work ofthe frog was much the best and the neatest.This time the mother said: 'Now that I am content with the tests I gave,I want you to go and fetch home your brides, and I will prepare thewedding feast.'You may imagine what the youngest brother felt on hearing these words.Whence was he to fetch a bride? Would the frog be able to help him inthis new difficulty? With bowed head, and feeling very sad, he sat downon the edge of the pond.Flop! and once more the faithful frog was beside him.'What is troubling you so much?' she asked him, and then the youth toldher everything.'Will you take me for a wife?' she asked.'What should I do with you as a wife,' he replied, wondering at herstrange proposal.'Once more, will you have me or will you not?' she said.'I will neither have you, nor will I refuse you,' said he.At this the frog disappeared. and the next minute the youth beheld alovely little chariot, drawn by two tiny ponies, standing on the road.The frog was holding the carriage door open for him to step in.'Come with me,' she said. And he got up and followed her into thechariot.As they drove along the road they met three witches. the first of themwas blind, the second was hunchbacked, and the third had a large thornin her throat. When the three witches beheld the chariot, with thefrog seated pompously among the cushions, they broke into such fits oflaughter that the eyelids of the blind one burst open, and she recoveredher sight. the hunchback rolled about on the ground in merriment tillher back became straight, and in a roar of laughter the thorn fell outof the throat of the third witch. Their first thought was to rewardthe frog, who had unconsciously been the means of curing them of theirmisfortunes.The first witch waved her magic wand over the frog, and changed her intothe loveliest girl that had ever been seen. The second witch wavedthe wand over the tiny chariot and ponies, and they were turned intoa beautiful large carriage with prancing horses, and a coachman on theseat. The third witch gave the girl a magic purse, filled with money.Having done this, the witches disappeared, and the youth with his lovelybride drove to his mother's home. Great was the delight of the mother ather youngest son's good fortune. A beautiful house was built for them.she was the favourite daughter in law. everything went well with them,and they lived happily ever after.(From the Italian.)