The king had just awakened from his midday sleep, for it was summer, andeveryone rose early and rested from twelve to three, as they do in hotcountries. He had dressed himself in cool white clothes, and was passingthrough the hall on his way to the council chamber, when a number ofyoung nobles suddenly appeared before him, and one amongst them steppedforward and spoke.'Sire, this morning we were all playing tennis in the court, the princeand this gentleman with the rest, when there broke out some disputeabout the game. The prince lost his temper, and said many insultingthings to the other, who was playing against him, till at length thegentleman whom you see there struck him violently in the face, so thatthe blood ran from his mouth and nose. We were all so horrified at thesight, that we should most likely have killed the man then and there,for daring to lay hands on the prince, had not his grandfather the dukestepped between and commanded us to lay the affair before you.'The king had listened attentively to the story, and when it was ended hesaid:'I suppose the prince had no arms with him, or else he would have usedthem?''Yes, sire, he had arms. he always carries a dagger in his belt. Butwhen he saw the blood pouring from his face, he went to a corner of thecourt and began to cry, which was the strangest thing of all.'On hearing this the king walked to the window and stood for a fewminutes with his back to the room, where the company of young menremained silent. Then he came back, his face white and stern.'I tell you,' he said, 'and it is the solemn truth, that I would ratheryou had told me that the prince was dead, though he is my only son, thanknow that he would suffer such an injury without attempting to avengeit. As for the gentleman who struck him, he will be brought before myjudges, and will plead his own cause, but I hardly think he can escapedeath, after having assaulted the heir to the crown.'The young man raised his head as if to reply, but the king would notlisten, and commanded his guards to put him under arrest, adding,however, that if the prisoner wished to visit any part of the city, hewas at liberty to do so properly guarded, and in fifteen days he wouldbe brought to trial before the highest judges in the land.The young man left the king's presence, surrounded by soldiers, andaccompanied by many of his friends, for he was a great favourite. Bytheir advice he spent the fourteen days that remained to him going aboutto seek counsel from wise men of all sorts, as to how he might escapedeath, but no one could help him, for none could find any excuse for theblow he had given to the prince.The fourteenth night had come, and in despair the prisoner went out totake his last walk through the city. He wandered on hardly knowingwhere he went, and his face was so white and desperate that none of hiscompanions dared speak to him. The sad little procession had passed somehours in this manner, when, near the gate of a monastery, an old womanappeared round a corner, and suddenly stood before the young man. Shewas bent almost double, and was so wizened and wrinkled that she lookedat least ninety. only her eyes were bright and quick as those of a girl.'Sir,' she said, 'I know all that has happened to you, and how you areseeking if in any wise you can save your life. But there is none thatcan answer that question save only I myself, if you will promise to doall I ask.'At her words the prisoner felt as if a load had all at once been rolledoff him.'Oh, save me, and I will do anything!' he cried. 'It is so hard to leavethe world and go out into the darkness.''You will not need to do that,' answered the old woman, 'you have onlygot to marry me, and you will soon be free.''Marry you?' exclaimed he, 'but but I am not yet twenty, and you why, you must be a hundred at least! Oh, no, it is quite impossible.'He spoke without thinking, but the flash of anger which darted from hereyes made him feel uncomfortable. However, all she said was:'As you like. since you reject me, let the crows have you,' and hurriedaway down the street.Left to himself, the full horror of his coming death rushed upon theyoung man, and he understood that he had thrown away his sole chance oflife. Well, if he must, he must, he said to himself, and began to run asfast as he could after the old crone, who by this time could scarcely beseen, even in the moonlight. Who would have believed a woman past ninetycould walk with such speed? It seemed more like flying! But at length,breathless and exhausted, he reached her side, and gasped out:'Madam, pardon me for my hasty words just now. I was wrong, and willthankfully accept the offer you made me.''Ah, I thought you would come to your senses,' answered she, in ratheran odd voice. 'We have no time to lose follow me at once,' and theywent on silently and swiftly till they stopped at the door of a smallhouse in which the priest lived. Before him the old woman bade theprisoner swear that she should be his wife, and this he did in thepresence of witnesses. Then, begging the priest and the guards to leavethem alone for a little, she told the young man what he was to do, whenthe next morning he was brought before the king and the judges.The hall was full to overflowing when the prisoner entered it, and allmarvelled at the brightness of his face. The king inquired if he had anyexcuse to plead for the high treason he had committed by striking theheir to the throne, and, if so, to be quick in setting it forth. With alow bow the youth made answer in a clear voice:'O my lord and gracious king, and you, nobles and wise men of the land,I leave my cause without fear in your hands, knowing that you willlisten and judge rightly, and that you will suffer me to speak to theend, before you give judgment.'For four years, you, O king, had been married to the queen and yet hadno children, which grieved you greatly. The queen saw this, and likewisethat your love was going from her, and thought night and day of someplan that might put an end to this evil. At length, when you wereaway fighting in distant countries, she decided what she would do, andadopted in secret the baby of a poor quarryman, sending a messenger totell you that you had a son. No one suspected the truth except a priestto whom the queen confessed the truth, and in a few weeks she fell illand died, leaving the baby to be brought up as became a prince. And now,if your highness will permit me, I will speak of myself.''What you have already told me,' answered the king, 'is so strange thatI cannot imagine what more there is to tell, but go on with your story.''One day, shortly after the death of the queen,' continued the youngman, 'your highness was hunting, and outstripped all your attendantswhile chasing the deer. You were in a part of the country which you didnot know, so seeing an orchard all pink and white with apple blossoms,and a girl tossing a ball in one corner, you went up to her to ask yourway. But when she turned to answer you, you were so struck with herbeauty that all else fled from your mind. Again and again you rode backto see her, and at length persuaded her to marry you. She only thoughtyou a poor knight, and agreed that as you wished it, the marriage shouldbe kept secret.'After the ceremony you gave her three rings and a charm with a crosson it, and then put her in a cottage in the forest, thinking to hide thematter securely.'For some months you visited the cottage every week. but a rebellionbroke out in a distant part of the kingdom, and called for yourpresence. When next you rode up to the cottage, it was empty, and nonecould inform you whither your bride had gone. That, sire, I can nowtell you,' and the young man paused and looked at the king, whocoloured deeply. 'She went back to her father the old duke, once yourchamberlain, and the cross on her breast revealed at once who you were.Fierce was his anger when he heard his daughter's tale, and he vowedthat he would hide her safely from you, till the day when you wouldclaim her publicly as your queen.'By and bye I was born, and was brought up by my grandfather in one ofhis great houses. Here are the rings you gave to my mother, and here isthe cross, and these will prove if I am your son or not.'As he spoke the young man laid the jewels at the feet of the king, andthe nobles and the judges pressed round to examine them. The king alonedid not move from his seat, for he had forgotten the hall of justice andall about him, and saw only the apple orchard, as it was twenty yearsago, and the beautiful girl playing at ball. A sudden silence round himmade him look up, and he found the eyes of the assembly fixed on him.'It is true. it is he who is my son, and not the other,' he said withan effort, 'and let every man present swear to acknowledge him as king,after my death.'Therefore one by one they all knelt before him and took the oath, anda message was sent to the false prince, forbidding him ever again toappear at court, though a handsome pension was granted him.At last the ceremony was over, and the king, signing to his newly foundson to follow him, rose and went into another room.'Tell me how you knew all that,' he said, throwing himself into a carvedchair filled with crimson cushions, and the prince told of his meetingwith the old woman who had brought him the jewels from his mother, andhow he had sworn before a priest to marry her, though he did not want todo it, on account of the difference in their ages, and besides, he wouldrather receive a bride chosen by the king himself. But the king frowned,and answered sharply:'You swore to marry her if she saved your life, and, come what may,you must fulfil your promise.' Then, striking a silver shield that hungclose by, he said to the equerry who appeared immediately:'Go and seek the priest who lives near the door of the prison, and askhim where you can find the old woman who visited him last night. andwhen you have found her, bring her to the palace.'It took some time to discover the whereabouts of the old woman, but atlength it was accomplished, and when she arrived at the palace with theequerry, she was received with royal honours, as became the bride ofthe prince. The guards looked at each other with astonished eyes, as thewizened creature, bowed with age, passed between their lines. but theywere more amazed still at the lightness of her step as she skipped upthe steps to the great door before which the king was standing, with theprince at his side. If they both felt a shock at the appearance of theaged lady they did not show it, and the king, with a grave bow, took herband, and led her to the chapel, where a bishop was waiting to performthe marriage ceremony.For the next few weeks little was seen of the prince, who spent all hisdays in hunting, and trying to forget the old wife at home. As for theprincess, no one troubled himself about her, and she passed the daysalone in her apartments, for she had absolutely declined the services ofthe ladies in waiting whom the king had appointed for her.One night the prince returned after a longer chase than usual, and hewas so tired that he went up straight to bed. Suddenly he was awakenedby a strange noise in the room, and suspecting that a robber might havestolen in, he jumped out of bed, and seized his sword, which lay readyto his hand. Then he perceived that the noise proceeded from the nextroom, which belonged to the princess, and was lighted by a burningtorch. Creeping softly to the door, he peeped through it, and beheldher lying quietly, with a crown of gold and pearls upon her head, herwrinkles all gone, and her face, which was whiter than the snow, asfresh as that of a girl of fourteen. Could that really be his wife thatbeautiful, beautiful creature?The prince was still gazing in surprise when the lady opened her eyesand smiled at him.'Yes, I really am your wife,' she said, as if she had guessed histhoughts, 'and the enchantment is ended. Now I must tell you who I am,and what befell to cause me to take the shape of an old woman.'The king of Granada is my father, and I was born in the palace whichoverlooks the plain of the Vega. I was only a few months old when awicked fairy, who had a spite against my parents, cast a spell overme, bending my back and wrinkling my skin till I looked as if I was ahundred years old, and making me such an object of disgust to everyone,that at length the king ordered my nurse to take my away from thepalace. She was the only person who cared about me, and we livedtogether in this city on a small pension allowed me by the king.'When I was about three an old man arrived at our house, and begged mynurse to let him come in and rest, as he could walk no longer. She sawthat he was very ill, so put him to bed and took such care of him thatby and bye he was as strong as ever. In gratitude for her goodness tohim, he told her that he was a wizard and could give her anything shechose to ask for, except life or death, so she answered that what shelonged for most in the world was that my wrinkled skin should disappear,and that I should regain the beauty with which I was born. To this hereplied that as my misfortune resulted from a spell, this was ratherdifficult, but he would do his best, and at any rate he could promisethat before my fifteenth birthday I should be freed from the enchantmentif I could get a man who would swear to marry me as I was.'As you may suppose, this was not easy, as my ugliness was such thatno one would look at me a second time. My nurse and I were almost indespair, as my fifteenth birthday was drawing near, and I had never somuch as spoken to a man. At last we received a visit from the wizard,who told us what had happened at court, and your story, bidding me toput myself in your way when you had lost all hope, and offer to save youif you would consent to marry me.'That is my history, and now you must beg the king to send messengers atonce to Granada, to inform my father of our marriage, and I think,' sheadded with a smile, 'that he will not refuse us his blessing.'Adapted from the Portuguese.