It was not going well for the peasant of G. in Rinn, and his shoes pinchedhim on all sides. Once he dreamed that he should go to the bridge at Zirlwhere he would discover something important. After having the same dreamthe following night he shared this information with his wife and declaredthat he wanted to go to Zirl.But his old woman would not allow this, saying, "Why do you want to wastean entire day and wear out your shoes for nothing? You will not have asmuch as a green twig to show for yourself!"So he remained unhappily at home, but behold, the next night he hadexactly the same dream again. He arose very early and hurried to Zirl. Atsunrise he was already standing by the bridge there. After walking backand forth for a quarter hour, he was approached by a goat herder whowished him a good morning, then drove his herd onward. He did not seeanyone for a long time after that. Noon finally arrived, and hunger wastormenting him. He took a piece of Turkish bread (a confection made frompeanuts) from his pocket and let it suffice, for he was not going to leavethe bridge for any price. But however long he waited, no one came to him.He was losing his patience, and he was irritated by the thought of how hiswife would laugh at him and ridicule him for his gullibility. But henevertheless held out, until finally the sun was about to set, and thegoat herder returned with his herd. He was more that a little surprised tosee that the man from Rinn was still there, and he asked him why he hadbeen waiting there so long."You see," said the peasant, "I dreamed that if I were to go to the Zirlbridge that I would discover something important.""Indeed!" answered the goat herder, laughing. "And I dreamed that if Iwere to go to G. in Rinn that I would find a pot of gold beneath thehearth."The man from Rinn had now heard enough. He ran home to see if the herder'swords were true. Arriving home late in the evening, he secretly dismantledhis hearth at once, and he did indeed find a pot completely filled withgold. Thus he became the richest peasant far and wide. (Zillertal)