Once upon a time when Brahmadatta reigned in Benares, the Bodhisatta(the future Buddha) came to life as a young lion. And when fully grown helived in a wood. At this time there was near the Western Ocean a grove ofpalms mixed with vilva trees.A certain hare lived here beneath a palm sapling, at the foot of avilva tree. One day this hare, after feeding, came and lay down beneaththe young palm tree. And the thought struck him, "If this earth should bedestroyed, what would become of me?"And at this very moment a ripe vilva fruit fell on a palm leaf. At thesound of it, the hare thought, "This solid earth is collapsing," andstarting up he fled, without so much as looking behind him. Another haresaw him scampering off, as if frightened to death, and asked the cause ofhis panic flight."Pray, don't ask me," he said.The other hare cried, "Pray, sir, what is it?" and kept running afterhim.Then the hare stopped a moment and without looking back said, "Theearth here is breaking up."And at this the second hare ran after the other. And so first one andthen another hare caught sight of him running, and joined in the chasetill one hundred thousand hares all took to flight together. They wereseen by a deer, a boar, an elk, a buffalo, a wild ox, a rhinoceros, atiger, a lion, and an elephant. And when they asked what it meant and weretold that the earth was breaking up, they too took to flight. So bydegrees this host of animals extended to the length of a full league.When the Bodhisatta saw this headlong flight of the animals, and heardthe cause of it was that the earth was coming to an end, he thought, "Theearth is nowhere coming to an end. Surely it must be some sound which wasmisunderstood by them. And if I don't make a great effort, they will allperish. I will save their lives."So with the speed of a lion he got before them to the foot of amountain, and lion like roared three times. They were terribly frightenedat the lion, and stopping in their flight stood all huddled together. Thelion went in amongst them and asked why there were running away."The earth is collapsing," they answered."Who saw it collapsing?" he said."The elephants know all about it," they replied.He asked the elephants. "We don't know," they said, "the lionsknow."But the lions said, "We don't know, the tigers know."The tigers said, "The rhinoceroses know."The rhinoceroses said, "The wild oxen know."The wild oxen, "the buffaloes."The buffaloes, "the elks."The elks, "the boars."The boars, "the deer."The deer said, "We don't know. the hares know."When the hares were questioned, they pointed to one particular hare andsaid, "This one told us."So the Bodhisatta asked, "Is it true, sir, that the earth is breakingup?""Yes, sir, I saw it," said the hare."Where," he asked, "were you living, when you saw it?""Near the ocean, sir, in a grove of palms mixed with vilva trees. Foras I was lying beneath the shade of a palm sapling at the foot of a vilvatree, methought, 'If this earth should break up, where shall I go?' And atthat very moment I heard the sound the breaking up of the earth, and Ifled."Thought the lion, "A ripe vilva fruit evidently must have fallen on apalm leaf and made a 'thud,' and this hare jumped to the conclusion thatthe earth was coming to an end, and ran away. I will find out the exacttruth about it."So he reassured the herd of animals, and said, "I will take the hareand go and find out exactly whether the earth is coming to an end or not,in the place pointed out by him. Until I return, do you stay here." Thenplacing the hare on his back, he sprang forward with the speed of a lion,and putting the hare down in the palm grove, he said, "Come, show us theplace you meant.""I dare not, my lord," said the hare."Come, don't be afraid," said the lion.The hare, not venturing to go near the vilva tree, stood afar off andcried, "Yonder, sir, is the place of dreadful sound," and so saying, herepeated the first stanza:From the spot where I did dwellIssued forth a fearful "thud".What it was I could not tell,Nor what caused it understood.After hearing what the hare said, the lion went to the foot of thevilva tree, and saw the spot where the hare had been lying beneath theshade of the palm tree, and the ripe vilva fruit that fell on the palmleaf, and having carefully ascertained that the earth had not broken up,he placed the hare on his back and with the speed of a lion soon cameagain to the herd of beasts.Then he told them the whole story, and said, "Don't be afraid." Andhaving thus reassured the herd of beasts, he let them go.Verily, if it had not been for the Bodhisatta at that time, all thebeasts would have rushed into the sea and perished. It was all owing tothe Bodhisatta that they escaped death.Alarmed at sound of fallen fruitA hare once ran away,The other beasts all followed suitMoved by that hare's dismay.They hastened not to view the scene,But lent a willing earTo idle gossip, and were cleanDistraught with foolish fear.They who to Wisdom's calm delightAnd Virtue's heights attain,Though ill example should invite,Such panic fear disdain.