Long, long ago there lived an old man and his wife who supportedthemselves by cultivating a small plot of land. Their life had been avery happy and peaceful one save for one great sorrow, and this wasthey had no child. Their only pet was a dog named Shiro, and on himthey lavished all the affection of their old age. Indeed, they lovedhim so much that whenever they had anything nice to eat they deniedthemselves to give it to Shiro. Now Shiro means "white," and he was socalled because of his color. He was a real Japanese dog, and very likea small wolf in appearance.The happiest hour of the day both for the old man and his dog was whenthe man returned from his work in the field, and having finished hisfrugal supper of rice and vegetables, would take what he had saved fromthe meal out to the little veranda that ran round the cottage. Sureenough, Shiro was waiting for his master and the evening tit bit. Thenthe old man said "Chin, chin!" and Shiro sat up and begged, and hismaster gave him the food. Next door to this good old couple there livedanother old man and his wife who were both wicked and cruel, and whohated their good neighbors and the dog Shiro with all their might.Whenever Shiro happened to look into their kitchen they at once kickedhim or threw something at him, sometimes even wounding him.One day Shiro was heard barking for a long time in the field at theback of his master's house. The old man, thinking that perhaps somebirds were attacking the corn, hurried out to see what was the matter.As soon as Shiro saw his master he ran to meet him, wagging his tail,and, seizing the end of his kimono, dragged him under a large yenokitree. Here he began to dig very industriously with his paws, yelpingwith joy all the time. The old man, unable to understand what it allmeant, stood looking on in bewilderment. But Shiro went on barking anddigging with all his might.The thought that something might be hidden beneath the tree, and thatthe dog had scented it, at last struck the old man. He ran back to thehouse, fetched his spade and began to dig the ground at that spot. Whatwas his astonishment when, after digging for some time, he came upon aheap of old and valuable coins, and the deeper he dug the more goldcoins did he find. So intent was the old man on his work that he neversaw the cross face of his neighbor peering at him through the bamboohedge. At last all the gold coins lay shining on the ground. Shiro satby erect with pride and looking fondly at his master as if to say, "Yousee, though only a dog, I can make some return for all the kindness youshow me."The old man ran in to call his wife, and together they carried home thetreasure. Thus in one day the poor old man became rich. His gratitudeto the faithful dog knew no bounds, and he loved and petted him morethan ever, if that were possible.The cross old neighbor, attracted by Shiro's barking, had been anunseen and envious witness of the finding of the treasure. He began tothink that he, too, would like to find a fortune. So a few days laterhe called at the old man's house and very ceremoniously askedpermission to borrow Shiro for a short time.Shiro's master thought this a strange request, because he knew quitewell that not only did his neighbor not love his pet dog, but that henever lost an opportunity of striking and tormenting him whenever thedog crossed his path. But the good old man was too kind hearted torefuse his neighbor, so he consented to lend the dog on condition thathe should be taken great care of.The wicked old man returned to his home with an evil smile on his face,and told his wife how he had succeeded in his crafty intentions. Hethen took his spade and hastened to his own field, forcing theunwilling Shiro to follow him. As soon as he reached a yenoki tree, hesaid to the dog, threateningly:"If there were gold coins under your master's tree, there must also begold coins under my tree. You must find them for me! Where are they?Where? Where?"And catching hold of Shiro's neck he held the dog's head to the ground,so that Shiro began to scratch and dig in order to free himself fromthe horrid old man's grasp.The old man was very pleased when he saw the dog begin to scratch anddig, for he at once supposed that some gold coins lay buried under histree as well as under his neighbor's, and that the dog had scented themas before. so pushing Shiro away he began to dig himself, but there wasnothing to be found. As he went on digging a foul smell was noticeable,and he at last came upon a refuse heap.The old man's disgust can be imagined. This soon gave way to anger. Hehad seen his neighbor's good fortune, and hoping for the same luckhimself, he had borrowed the dog Shiro. and now, just as he seemed onthe point of finding what he sought, only a horrid smelling refuse heaphad rewarded him for a morning's digging. Instead of blaming his owngreed for his disappointment, he blamed the poor dog. He seized hisspade, and with all his strength struck Shiro and killed him on thespot. He then threw the dog's body into the hole which he had dug inthe hope of finding a treasure of gold coins, and covered it over withthe earth. Then he returned to the house, telling no one, not even hiswife, what he had done.After waiting several days, as the dog Shiro did not return, his masterbegan to grow anxious. Day after day went by and the good old manwaited in vain. Then he went to his neighbor and asked him to give himback his dog. Without any shame or hesitation, the wicked neighboranswered that he had killed Shiro because of his bad behavior. At thisdreadful news Shiro's master wept many sad and bitter tears. Greatindeed, was his woful surprise, but he was too good and gentle toreproach his bad neighbor. Learning that Shiro was buried under theyenoki tree in the field, he asked the old man to give him the tree, inremembrance of his poor dog Shiro.Even the cross old neighbor could not refuse such a simple request, sohe consented to give the old man the tree under which Shiro lay buried.Shiro's master then cut the tree down and carried it home. Out of thetrunk he made a mortar. In this his wife put some rice, and he began topound it with the intention of making a festival to the memory of hisdog Shiro.A strange thing happened! His wife put the rice into the mortar, and nosooner had he begun to pound it to make the cakes, than it began toincrease in quantity gradually till it was about five times theoriginal amount, and the cakes were turned out of the mortar as if aninvisible hand were at work.When the old man and his wife saw this, they understood that it was areward to them from Shiro for their faithful love to him. They tastedthe cakes and found them nicer than any other food. So from this timethey never troubled about food, for they lived upon the cakes withwhich the mortar never ceased to supply them.The greedy neighbor, hearing of this new piece of good luck, was filledwith envy as before, and called on the old man and asked leave toborrow the wonderful mortar for a short time, pretending that he, too,sorrowed for the death of Shiro, and wished to make cakes for afestival to the dog's memory.The old man did not in the least wish to lend it to his cruel neighbor,but he was too kind to refuse. So the envious man carried home themortar, but he never brought it back.Several days passed, and Shiro's master waited in vain for the mortar,so he went to call on the borrower, and asked him to be good enough toreturn the mortar if he had finished with it. He found him sitting by abig fire made of pieces of wood. On the ground lay what looked verymuch like pieces of a broken mortar. In answer to the old man'sinquiry, the wicked neighbor answered haughtily:"Have you come to ask me for your mortar? I broke it to pieces, and nowI am making a fire of the wood, for when I tried to pound cakes in itonly some horrid smelling stuff came out."The good old man said:"I am very sorry for that. It is a great pity you did not ask me forthe cakes if you wanted them. I would have given you as many as everyou wanted. Now please give me the ashes of the mortar, as I wish tokeep them in remembrance of my dog."The neighbor consented at once, and the old man carried home a basketfull of ashes.Not long after this the old man accidentally scattered some of theashes made by the burning of the mortar on the trees of his garden. Awonderful thing happened!It was late in autumn and all the trees had shed their leaves, but nosooner did the ashes touch their branches than the cherry trees, theplum trees, and all other blossoming shrubs burst into bloom, so thatthe old man's garden was suddenly transformed into a beautiful pictureof spring. The old man's delight knew no bounds, and he carefullypreserved the remaining ashes.The story of the old man's garden spread far and wide, and people fromfar and near came to see the wonderful sight.One day, soon after this, the old man heard some one knocking at hisdoor, and going to the porch to see who it was he was surprised to seea Knight standing there. This Knight told him that he was a retainer ofa great Daimio (Earl). that one of the favorite cherry trees in thisnobleman's garden had withered, and that though every one in hisservice had tried all manner of means to revive it, none took effect.The Knight was sore perplexed when he saw what great displeasure theloss of his favorite cherry tree caused the Daimio. At this point,fortunately, they had heard that there was a wonderful old man whocould make withered trees to blossom, and that his Lord had sent him toask the old man to come to him."And," added the Knight, "I shall be very much obliged if you will comeat once."The good old man was greatly surprised at what he heard, butrespectfully followed the Knight to the nobleman's Palace.The Daimio, who had been impatiently awaiting the old man's coming, assoon as he saw him asked him at once:"Are you the old man who can make withered trees flower even out ofseason?"The old man made an obeisance, and replied:"I am that old man!"Then the Daimio said:"You must make that dead cherry tree in my garden blossom again bymeans of your famous ashes. I shall look on."Then they all went into the garden the Daimio and his retainers andthe ladies in waiting, who carried the Daimio's sword.The old man now tucked up his kimono and made ready to climb the tree.Saying "Excuse me," he took the pot of ashes which he had brought withhim, and began to climb the tree, every one watching his movements withgreat interest.At last he climbed to the spot where the tree divided into two greatbranches, and taking up his position here, the old man sat down andscattered the ashes right and left all over the branches and twigs.Wonderful, indeed, was the result! The withered tree at once burst intofull bloom! The Daimio was so transported with joy that he looked as ifhe would go mad. He rose to his feet and spread out his fan, callingthe old man down from the tree. He himself gave the old man a wine cupfilled with the best SAKE, and rewarded him with much silver and goldand many other precious things. The Daimio ordered that henceforth theold man should call himself by the name of Hana Saka Jijii, or "The OldMan who makes the Trees to Blossom," and that henceforth all were torecognize him by this name, and he sent him home with great honor.The wicked neighbor, as before, heard of the good old man's fortune,and of all that had so auspiciously befallen him, and he could notsuppress all the envy and jealousy that filled his heart. He called tomind how he had failed in his attempt to find the gold coins, and thenin making the magic cakes. this time surely he must succeed if heimitated the old man, who made withered trees to flower simply bysprinkling ashes on them. This would be the simplest task of all.So he set to work and gathered together all the ashes which remained inthe fire place from the burning of the wonderful mortar. Then he setout in the hope of finding some great man to employ him, calling outloudly as he went along:"Here comes the wonderful man who can make withered trees blossom! Herecomes the old man who can make dead trees blossom!"The Daimio in his Palace heard this cry, and said:"That must be the Hana Saka Jijii passing. I have nothing to do to day.Let him try his art again. it will amuse me to look on."So the retainers went out and brought in the impostor before theirLord. The satisfaction of false old man can now be imagined.But the Daimio looking at him, thought it strange that he was not atall like the old man he had seen before, so he asked him:"Are you the man whom I named Hana Saka Jijii?"And the envious neighbor answered with a lie:"Yes, my Lord!""That is strange!" said the Daimio. "I thought there was only oneHana Saka Jijii in the world! Has he now some disciples?""I am the true Hana Saka Jijii. The one who came to you before was onlymy disciple!" replied the old man again."Then you must be more skillful than the other. Try what you can do andlet me see!"The envious neighbor, with the Daimio and his Court following, thenwent into the garden, and approaching a dead tree, took out a handfulof the ashes which he carried with him, and scattered them over thetree.But not only did the tree not burst into flower, but not even a budcame forth. Thinking that he had not used enough ashes, the old mantook handfuls and again sprinkled them over the withered tree. But allto no effect. After trying several times, the ashes were blown into theDaimio's eyes. This made him very angry, and he ordered his retainersto arrest the false Hana Saka Jijii at once and put him in prison foran impostor. From this imprisonment the wicked old man was never freed.Thus did he meet with punishment at last for all his evil doings.The good old man, however, with the treasure of gold coins which Shirohad found for him, and with all the gold and the silver which theDaimio had showered on him, became a rich and prosperous man in his oldage, and lived a long and happy life, beloved and respected by all.