There were once five peas in one shell, they were green, the shellwas green, and so they believed that the whole world must be greenalso, which was a very natural conclusion. The shell grew, and thepeas grew, they accommodated themselves to their position, and sat allin a row. The sun shone without and warmed the shell, and the rainmade it clear and transparent. it was mild and agreeable in broaddaylight, and dark at night, as it generally is. and the peas asthey sat there grew bigger and bigger, and more thoughtful as theymused, for they felt there must be something else for them to do."Are we to sit here forever?" asked one. "shall we not become hardby sitting so long? It seems to me there must be something outside,and I feel sure of it."And as weeks passed by, the peas became yellow, and the shellbecame yellow."All the world is turning yellow, I suppose," said they, andperhaps they were right.Suddenly they felt a pull at the shell. it was torn off, andheld in human hands, then slipped into the pocket of a jacket incompany with other full pods."Now we shall soon be opened," said one, just what they allwanted."I should like to know which of us will travel furthest," said thesmallest of the five. "we shall soon see now.""What is to happen will happen," said the largest pea."Crack" went the shell as it burst, and the five peas rolled outinto the bright sunshine. There they lay in a child's hand. A littleboy was holding them tightly, and said they were fine peas for hispea shooter. And immediately he put one in and shot it out."Now I am flying out into the wide world," said he. "catch me ifyou can." and he was gone in a moment."I," said the second, "intend to fly straight to the sun, thatis a shell that lets itself be seen, and it will suit me exactly." andaway he went."We will go to sleep wherever we find ourselves," said the twonext, "we shall still be rolling onwards." and they did certainly fallon the floor, and roll about before they got into the pea shooter. butthey were put in for all that. "We shall go farther than theothers," said they."What is to happen will happen," exclaimed the last, as he wasshot out of the pea shooter. and as he spoke he flew up against an oldboard under a garret window, and fell into a little crevice, which wasalmost filled up with moss and soft earth. The moss closed itselfround him, and there he lay, a captive indeed, but not unnoticed byGod."What is to happen will happen," said he to himself.Within the little garret lived a poor woman, who went out to cleanstoves, chop wood into small pieces and perform such like hard work,for she was strong and industrious. Yet she remained always poor,and at home in the garret lay her only daughter, not quite grown up,and very delicate and weak. For a whole year she had kept her bed, andit seemed as if she could neither live nor die."She is going to her little sister," said the woman. "I had butthe two children, and it was not an easy thing to support both ofthem. but the good God helped me in my work, and took one of them toHimself and provided for her. Now I would gladly keep the other thatwas left to me, but I suppose they are not to be separated, and mysick girl will very soon go to her sister above." But the sick girlstill remained where she was, quietly and patiently she lay all theday long, while her mother was away from home at her work.Spring came, and one morning early the sun shone brightlythrough the little window, and threw its rays over the floor of theroom. Just as the mother was going to her work, the sick girl fixedher gaze on the lowest pane of the window "Mother," she exclaimed,"what can that little green thing be that peeps in at the window? Itis moving in the wind."The mother stepped to the window and half opened it. "Oh!" shesaid, "there is actually a little pea which has taken root and isputting out its green leaves. How could it have got into this crack?Well now, here is a little garden for you to amuse yourself with."So the bed of the sick girl was drawn nearer to the window, that shemight see the budding plant. and the mother went out to her work."Mother, I believe I shall get well," said the sick child in theevening, "the sun has shone in here so brightly and warmly to day, andthe little pea is thriving so well: I shall get on better, too, and goout into the warm sunshine again.""God grant it!" said the mother, but she did not believe itwould be so. But she propped up with the little stick the greenplant which had given her child such pleasant hopes of life, so thatit might not be broken by the winds. she tied the piece of string tothe window sill and to the upper part of the frame, so that thepea tendrils might twine round it when it shot up. And it did shootup, indeed it might almost be seen to grow from day to day."Now really here is a flower coming," said the old woman onemorning, and now at last she began to encourage the hope that her sickdaughter might really recover. She remembered that for some time thechild had spoken more cheerfully, and during the last few days hadraised herself in bed in the morning to look with sparkling eyes ather little garden which contained only a single pea plant. A weekafter, the invalid sat up for the first time a whole hour, feelingquite happy by the open window in the warm sunshine, while outsidegrew the little plant, and on it a pink pea blossom in full bloom. Thelittle maiden bent down and gently kissed the delicate leaves. Thisday was to her like a festival."Our heavenly Father Himself has planted that pea, and made itgrow and flourish, to bring joy to you and hope to me, my blessedchild," said the happy mother, and she smiled at the flower, as ifit had been an angel from God.But what became of the other peas? Why the one who flew out intothe wide world, and said, "Catch me if you can," fell into a gutteron the roof of a house, and ended his travels in the crop of apigeon. The two lazy ones were carried quite as far, for they alsowere eaten by pigeons, so they were at least of some use. but thefourth, who wanted to reach the sun, fell into a sink and lay therein the dirty water for days and weeks, till he had swelled to a greatsize."I am getting beautifully fat," said the pea, "I expect I shallburst at last. no pea could do more that that, I think. I am themost remarkable of all the five which were in the shell." And the sinkconfirmed the opinion.But the young maiden stood at the open garret window, withsparkling eyes and the rosy hue of health on her cheeks, she foldedher thin hands over the pea blossom, and thanked God for what He haddone."I," said the sink, "shall stand up for my pea."