Once upon a time there lived a King of England who had in his domain a dismal, wild, and pathless swamp. No one would go near the place, for it was said that every living thing, whether man or beast, that ventured to set foot there would surely perish, and that instantly. and folks called it the Wild Marsh.Well, one day the king made up his mind to have this marsh, or swamp, thoroughly explored. so he gave orders for the place to be surrounded by his entire army, and for his soldiers then to pour down into the marsh from all sides.When they had got about halfway through, they came upon a gigantic wild man, lying asleep, and before he could awake they had bound him fast, hand and foot, and then they brought him to the king's castle. He was a strange fellow to look at   in form like a man, only much, much bigger, and covered with hair from top to toe. and he had but one eye, and that was in the middle of his forehead.The king was very pleased with the capture he had made. He felt certain that the wild man possessed vast hidden treasures, and he longed to have some of them himself. But to all they said the wild man spake never a word in answer. So the king had him put in a big iron cage, which he placed in a tower built of huge blocks of granite. Every day food and drink were thrust through the iron bars of his cage, but the keys of the tower were in the king's own keeping.Now it so fell out that the king had to go away to the wars, to help another king in defending his land, for in those days there were many kings in England. The keys of the tower he gave into the queen's keeping, bidding her take good care of them, for he vowed a solemn vow that if any one, whosoever it might be, let the wild man escape, he should thereby forfeit his own life. So the queen promised she would never let the keys out of her keeping, day or night. and then the king set out.Now this king and queen had an only child, a pretty, clever little fellow of seven years. He was in the garden one day playing ball with a golden apple, and quite by accident he threw the apple so that it fell between the bars of the iron cage in the tower. The boy ran to the cage, and begged the wild man to throw the apple back to him. But the wild man said no, he should not have his apple again unless he came in and fetched it. and then he told him how to steal the keys of the tower from his royal mother.So the prince ran in to the queen, and laid his head in her lap, and said: "Oh, mother, there is something tickling my ear! Do see what it is!"Then the queen looked, and said: "No, there is nothing there."Meanwhile the boy had stolen the keys out of her pocket. and he ran away to the tower, and opened the outer door."Now give me my golden apple," said he."No, you must open the next door, too!" replied the wild man.The prince did so, and then asked again for his apple.But the wild man answered: "You must first open the innermost door."And when the prince had done this, he got back his golden apple.But at the same moment the wild man stepped out of his cage. and he gave the prince a little whistle, saying: "If ever you find yourself in trouble, just sound this whistle, and call me. I will come to your assistance."And with that the wild man ran off to the marsh.The prince grew hot with fright when he saw the wild man make off, for he knew what his father had vowed concerning any one who should set the captive free.Then he locked all the doors again, and, running back to the queen, he laid his head in her lap, and said: "Oh, there is something tickling my ear! Do see what it is!"So the queen looked."Nonsense! there is nothing there," she said.But meanwhile the prince had managed to slip the keys back into his mother's pocket.Next day, when they went to feed the wild man, they found he had gone, and no one could conceive how he had got through the locked doors. The queen was dreadfully frightened, but she had her suspicions as to how it had happened. However, she said nothing, neither to her son nor to any one else, but waited quietly till the king should come home from the wars.The king was furious when he learned that the wild man was gone, and he said what he had sworn that he would hold to, and that the queen, who had had possession of the keys, must answer for what had happened. she must know who had let him out.But the queen said she had not done it, that she had never let any one have the keys, and that she knew nothing whatever about it.Then the king condemned her to pay the forfeit with her life, and she was led away to the place of execution.But now the prince stepped forward, and said that his mother was innocent. that he had stolen the keys out of her pocket, and slipped them in again. and that he had unlocked the doors of the wild man's cage in order to get back his golden apple. So the queen was set free.But now, according to the king's vow, her son must pay the forfeit with his life.His father, however, would not shed his blood, but commanded that he should be immediately conveyed to the wild marsh, and driven down into it, where he would certainly perish, and thus the king's oath would be kept.So the prince was led away to the wild marsh. and he was told that, supposing he made his escape, if he, on any pretext whatever, showed himself outside the marsh, his life would forthwith pay the forfeit. So there was nothing for him to do but to betake himself to the wild marsh, and to try to pick out the driest spots, and to beware of pools and swamps.For a while he continued to make his way through the marsh, which stretched along for many a mile on either side, thickly overgrown with underwood, reeds, and rushes.It was already getting toward evening when the prince was set down in the wild marsh, and by the time he had gone as far as he could find his way it was quite dark. so he set about climbing a tree, that he might remain there till daylight came again.Then he found that something he had about him had caught in a little twig of this tree, and when he looked to see what it might be he saw it was the whistle the wild man had given him. He had never given it a thought before, but now he set to and blew the best he could, and then he shouted at the top of his voice, "Wild man! Wild man!"At the same instant the wild man stood before him, looking at him in the most friendly manner out of the one eye that he had in the middle of his forehead."Get up on my back," said he.And the boy was not slow to obey, clasping him round the neck with both legs, and holding on to his shaggy locks with both hands.So the wild man ran with him farther into the marsh. and then all at once down they sank, deep down below the earth, for it was there the wild man lived in a grand castle of his own.There the prince was served with a good meal, and a comfortable bed was given him, where he slept soundly all the night through. In the morning the wild man came to the prince, and said:"Here shalt thou live, and here shalt thou stayTill seven long years have passed away,and then by that time you will have learned how to make your own way in the world."Then he took the boy to the stables, and showed him all his horses, and some were brown and some were black and some were white. After that he led him round the outside of the castle. There were meadows and gardens. there were also a fencing court and a racecourse. Every day the prince took lessons in riding and racing, in fighting and fencing. he also learned to swim and to shoot, and how to handle lance and spear.Seven years had passed away thus, and the prince was now fourteen years old. but he might well have passed for eighteen, so tall and so strong, so straight and so slim was he, and handsome and graceful into the bargain.Then the wild man said to him: "Now you must dip your head in this stream."And he did so, and his hair became the colour of the purest gold. After that the wild man presented him with a suit of clothes, very plain and simple in make and material, and told him he must put them on, and then set out to seek his fortune through the wide world.That same evening the wild man took the prince upon his back, and he ran with him all through that night. The youth could not see whether they went over land or water. but they travelled fast, and had gone a very long way by the time the gray dawn broke. Then the wild man set him down, and bade him farewell."There is a king's castle close by," said he. "You must go and take service there. take what ever you can get, whatever they offer you. Never speak of your home, nor where you come from. and so long as you remain in a lowly station, so long must you keep your hat upon your head, that none may get a glimpse of your golden hair. What else you have to do you will soon find out for yourself. But all that I possess, horses or armour or weapons, you can always obtain by wishing for them, and you can be rid of them again whenever you will. And you need never hesitate to wish."With that the wild man vanished, and the youth went his way to the king's castle, and asked if he might take service there. Yes, he might be the gardener's boy, and learn to dig and hoe, and plant and sow, and to water the royal gardens. He was very pleased at this, and went and presented himself to the head gardener."Off with your hat when you speak to me," said the head gardener, who was very proud of his position."I may not take off my hat, for I am bald headed," said the prince."Ugh! what a misfortune!" cried the head gardener. "Well, I can't have you in my house. but you may sleep in the outhouse!"And the prince was quite content to do so.The gardener's apprentice paid great attention to his duties, and everyone marvelled to see the amount of work he could get through, and how everything prospered that he undertook. And this is how it happened. When he stuck his spade into the earth, he just wished that the piece of ground was all dug up, and that very instant it was all dug! When he stuck a stick into the ground, he just wished it might grow, and so it always came to pass that what he planted in the evening was full grown by the following morning. The gardener soon perceived this, and he was very well pleased to have such an apprentice.Early one morning, after passing the night as usual in the outhouse, the prince came out and washed himself in the stream, and then he took off his hat, and combed his long golden locks.Now it so happened that the king's youngest daughter (he had three daughters, all young and fair to look upon) had risen very early that morning, and stood at her window, which looked out upon the garden. She saw something shining through the trees, and thought at first it was the sunrise. But on looking again she saw it was the under gardener's long hair, that shone like the purest gold. She was greatly struck by this, for she had always noticed that on meeting her sisters or herself in the garden the youth had never once lifted his hat   indeed, he declined to bare his head to royalty as resolutely as he had refused to take off his hat to the head gardener.From that hour she watched him narrowly, and she could not help thinking him the very handsomest serving man she had ever seen, and she felt sure that he was not what he gave himself out to be.Both her sisters teased her for casting an eye of favour upon a poor bald headed serving man, for she could not help looking at him when they met him. And once, when she was taking a noonday stroll in the garden with her father and her two sisters, and they came upon the gardener's boy lying asleep on a grassy bank, she even could not refrain from going up to him and lifting his cap. Her sisters laughed at her, and her father rated her soundly for having anything to do with a mere peasant. but she cared not a jot, for she had caught a glimpse of his golden hair.So time passed on. Then the king determined to marry his three daughters to the three most gallant knights who should win the three best prizes in a tournament. The tournament was to last three days, and whoever remained victor, and beat all the other knights out of the lists, he should receive a golden apple from the hand of that princess whose day it was, and he should be her betrothed husband.On the first day the hand of the eldest princess was to be contended for. A great many princes and knights were gathered together from the king's own land and from other lands.Then the gardener's boy went out into the wood, and wished for his brown horse out of the wild man's stables, with accoutrements and coat of mail of glittering steel. Springing into the saddle, he galloped off to the spot where the tournament was being held. It was a lance tournament, and they rode and they strove, and many a lance thrust was given and parried, many a brave knight was thrown from his horse, and many another lost life or limb. But the steel clad knight on the brown charger was victorious over all, and to him was given the princess's golden apple. Then he galloped off and vanished, none knew whither. But as he went he threw the golden apple to a knight in brave attire who had not entered the lists, having no desire to risk his dainty doublet.The following day they were to strive for the hand of the second princess, and there were no fewer combatants than there had been the day before, for princes and knights from many a land were desirous of winning the prize.Then the gardener's boy went out into the wood again, and he wished for his coal black steed out of the wild man's stables, with coat of mail and accoutrements of shining silver. And he rode and he strove with the other knights till he had conquered them all, and so he won the second golden apple. He gave that to an earl's son, whom he had unhorsed, and then he rode away into the wood, and put on his everyday garments once more.The third day the youngest princess was to be fought for. She was the most beautiful of the three, and there was no less rivalry among the combatants than on the previous days. That day the gardener's boy wished for his milk white steed out of the wild man's stables, and for a coat of mail and accoutrements of purest gold. Then he loosed his golden hair, so that it fell down over his shoulders, and galloped to the courtyard where the tournament was being held. and all who saw him thought he looked more like an angel than a mere man. And he rode and he strove so that none could withstand him. And so he received the golden apple from the hand of the youngest princess. But he did not give that away. he held it fast in his closed hand, and galloped away, none knew whither. However, he only rode as far as the wood, and wished himself back in his old clothes, with his golden hair hidden beneath his fur cap.And now those knights who had won the prizes on the three days were summoned to appear. And the duke's son, who had been so bravely apparelled, and the earl's son, who had been unhorsed, stepped forward with haughty mien, each carrying his golden apple. So they were betrothed each to his princess. But no knight in golden armour made his appearance. no one knew what had become of him.The two eldest princesses were delighted with their betrothed husbands, and they made great fun of their sister, whom "no one would have," they said."But, after all, you have a lover too!" cried they. "There is your bald headed gardener's boy. send for him."And they did send for him. and he came in his old clothes and wearing his fur cap, but in his hand was the princess's golden apple.Then the king came to him in haste, and said: "You found that in the courtyard. it does not belong to you."And the gardener's boy answered: "Nay, but I won it in the courtyard, and the princess belongs to me."Then the youngest princess went up to him, and gave him her hand, and said that he who had her golden apple was her true love.The king, however, considered this an absurd and shameful proceeding. He felt convinced that the golden knight had lost the apple, and was even now searching for it. that this was the reason why he had not come, but that he would come, and that would clear up the whole thing.The two elder princesses seemed to find it a most amusing joke to see their sister make herself thus ridiculous, and could not find ways enough to torment and make a mock of her and her peasant lover. But the youngest princess was quite clear in her own mind, for she had recognised in the golden knight the humble serving lad. so she remained calm and cheerful, and was not disturbed even when her father drove him back into the garden, whilst the others betook themselves to the banqueting hall, where the two elder princesses were forthwith betrothed.The day went on, but no golden knight made his appearance.The king was terribly put out, and the sisters taunted the youngest princess, saying: "He would neither win thee nor woo thee, so he threw the apple away and took himself off. But thou hast still thy bald headed gardener's boy.""Aye, surely I have, and he is good enough for me," said she.When they left the dining hall, the youngest princess went down into the garden and sought out the gardener's boy, and as she came he saw her, and he lifted his cap, and his golden hair rolled down on to his shoulders. He kissed her hand, and he kissed her mouth, and he told her who he was: that, like herself, he was of royal birth, and that he would bring no shame upon her. He told her also that it was he who had won all three golden apples, but that he had given away the two first, as he did not wish to have either of the two elder princesses. he only wanted her whom he had now won, and who had been to him so loving and so true. Not many days hence, he said, they should give him the place of honour at the king's table.The following morning the two high born lovers rode forth to the hunt, and the two eldest princesses, anxious to carry on their merry jests of yesterday, declared that the third lover must go too. So the gardener's boy was sent for, and they equipped him for the hunt in a style that these laughter loving princesses deemed appropriate. They gave him a little gray donkey to ride, and, instead of a gun, they fetched a pitchfork from the cow house, and thus equipped he rode out of the courtyard with the two young noblemen, and the two princesses nearly killed themselves with laughter as they watched the party pass.When they had got a little distance from the king's castle they came to two crossroads   to the right was a beautiful wood, to the left a wild marsh overgrown with brushwood. The two young nobles struck off to the right, but the gardener's boy turned his donkey to the left   the road leading to the marsh. And when he had gone a little way he wished for his good cross bow from the wild man's castle, and then he wished he might see some hares and stags and foxes and wild boars, and he very soon had bagged as much game as his donkey could carry. So he went back to the place where the crossroads met.Towards evening the two noblemen came riding homewards with a crestfallen air. they had not killed so much as a hare. When they saw the donkey so laden with game, they begged the gardener's boy, with many soft words and civil speeches, to sell it to them.He was quite willing to do this, but they must give him their golden apples in exchange, or they should not have so much as a single hare. And they were obliged to agree to that. Then they shared the game between them, and rode proudly into the castle yard. But the gardener's boy came lumbering after them on his little gray donkey, and with his pitchfork on his shoulder. And this gave the princesses fresh food for laughter.Next day the two noblemen went hunting again, and again the gardener's boy had to go with them, riding his little gray donkey and carrying his pitchfork on his shoulder. The young nobles took the same road as yesterday, hoping for better luck this time, and the gardener's boy went to the marsh as he had done before. And the same thing happened again. In the evening, when the noblemen came to the place where the crossroads met, they were empty handed, whereas the gardener's boy had as much game as his donkey could carry. So they tried to bargain with him again to buy the game of him.But this time he would not sell it unless they each gave him a strip of their skins."I will cut it off where it won't be seen," said he.And so, as they could make no easier bargain, and wished to be considered as skilful sportsmen as they were gallant knights, they consented to that arrangement.Then the gardener's boy drew from his pocket a rusty old knife, and he cut off a strip from the back of each of the young noblemen, who were all the time in a cold perspiration from fright.But for all that they came riding into the king's castle yard as proudly as ever, and thanks and compliments were showered upon them for their clever sportsmanship. whereas the gardener's boy came hobbling after them, leaning on his pitchfork and dragging the donkey by the reins.The next day there was to be a great banquet given in the king's castle in honour of the betrothal of the two princesses. But that same night came news of an invasion of the king's domains by a horde of sea robbers, who were ravaging the land with fire and sword. So all the king's soldiers set out to meet the enemy, and the two high born lovers were forced to go too. Then the gardener's boy mounted his little gray donkey, shouldered his two pronged pitchfork, and rode forth with the rest.The way led along by a great peat marsh, and when they came to a steep bank the two noblemen set upon the gardener's boy and rode him down, so that the donkey stuck fast in the bog. and the more the poor beast struggled to free himself, the deeper he sank into the mire. Then the gardener's boy begged the two noblemen to help him out. but they saw that he would be sure to sink to the bottom, so that no one would ever hear about their golden apples, or about their skin that had been stripped off. so they rode away and left him to sink into his miry grave.As soon as they were out of sight, the gardener's boy wished himself back on dry ground. then he wished for his milk white steed and for his harness and coat of mail, all of purest gold, just as when he had ridden in the tournament for the hand of the youngest princess. And he rode on till he came to the battlefield.There things were going badly for the king's men. The enemy were pressing them hard, and a part of the royal army had already turned to fly, and the two grand lovers, now that their men were running away, were first and foremost in their eagerness to get away too. But the knight in golden armour dashed to the front, cutting his way through the enemy right and left, and roused the sinking courage of the king's soldiers. The fortune of the day turned once more, and the enemy, after the loss of half their numbers, turned and fled back to their ships.All agreed that to the golden knight was due the honour of the victory, and he was invited to return to the king's castle. And the duke's son and the earl's son came and greeted the prince, for they could see at a glance that he was a king's son. so they thanked him for his good services, and bade him beforehand right welcome to the royal castle. They told him they remembered seeing him at the tournament, and how he was going to be their brother in law, and of the talk his unaccountable absence during the last three days had given rise to.The youngest princess, whom he had won, was a charming girl, they said, though not so clever as her elder sisters. she was, in fact, somewhat simple, for she had contracted a sort of half engagement with a low born, bald headed gardener's boy, who had found the golden apple that the prince must have lost. But when once she saw him, all that nonsense would of course come to an end. More over, they believed that the boy was now lying at the bottom of the peat bog.The prince let them chatter without interruption as he rode with them to the Castle, where the king himself came out to receive him. The news of the battle had already reached him, and he had also been told that the golden knight who had won it was the same who, three days before, had won the youngest princess.And the king now led forth his youngest daughter by the hand, and betrothed her to the unknown prince. Then there was a splendid banquet given, where the golden prince was seated at the head of the table, exactly opposite the king, and every one showed him the deepest respect.During the feast he drew forth the golden apple he had received from his betrothed when he won her in the tournament, and at the same time also the golden apple he had played ball with in his father's castle yard, and upon which his name and crown were engraved. and he presented them both as a betrothal gift to his youthful bride.The king sat there expecting to see the two knights do the same. but they sat on, pretending not to take any notice.So, after a while, the golden prince drew forth another golden apple, and then again another, and gave them to his young bride, saying: "Like seeks like. these two shall also be thine."The king thought he recognised these apples. and when they were given to him to look at, he discovered the names of his two eldest daughters engraved on them, and so he knew they were the same golden apples he had given to the victors on the first and second days of the tournament. He now asked how the prince had come by them.Then the prince told the whole story   how that he was no other than he whom they had called the low born, bald headed gardener's boy, that it was he who had won the three prizes in the tournament, and that he had given away the first two apples to the other two betrothed knights. Then he told them how the knights had sold the apples to him again for the game which he, and not they, had killed, and how at last they had been forced, each of them, to give him a strip of skin.When the king heard this he was furious, and declared that the two good for nothings should leave his castle directly, and that they might take their betrothed brides with them. And the princesses did go with them, for they did not care to stop at home any longer now.But the King of England's son was married to the youngest princess, and as long as the king lived he was to rule over half the kingdom, and when the king died he was to have the whole. And so they live there still, in great joy and splendour, he and his true hearted queen.