In the vicinity of Klein Krams near Ludwigslust in former times there wereextensive forests that were so rich with game that the dukes often came tothis region to hold their great hunts. During these hunts they almostalways saw a wolf who   even though he came within shooting distance  could never be killed by a huntsman. Indeed, they even had to watch as hetook a piece of game before their very eyes and   something that was mostremarkable to them   ran with it into the village.Now once it happened that a hussar from Ludwigslust was traveling throughthe village and just happened to enter the house of a man named Feeg.When he entered the house a flock of children stormed out of the housewith a loud cry and hurried out into the yard. When he asked them abouttheir wild behavior, they told him that except for a small boy, no onefrom the Feeg family was at home, and that he   as was his custom when noone was at home   had transformed himself into a werewolf, and that theywere running away from him, because otherwise he would bite them.Soon afterward the feared wolf appeared, but by now he had laid aside hiswolf form. The hussar turned to the Feeg child and tried to learn moreabout the wolf game, but the child would say nothing. However, thestranger would not give up, and he finally succeeded in making the childtalk.The child told him that his grandmother had a strap, and that if he put iton he would instantly become a wolf. The hussar kindly asked the boy tomake an appearance as a werewolf. At first the boy refused, but finallyhe agreed to do it, if the strange man would first climb into the loft, sothat he would be safe from him. The hussar agreed to this, and to be surepulled up the ladder with which he had climbed into the loft.As soon as this had happened the boy ran into the main room, and soon cameout again as a young wolf and chased away all those who standing in theentryway. After the wolf had run back into the main room and come backout as a boy, the hussar climbed down and had the Feeg child show him themagic belt, but he could not discover anything unusual about it.Afterward the hussar went to a forester in the vicinity of Klein Krams andtold him what he had experienced in the Feeg house. Upon hearing thisstory, the forester, who had always been present at the great hunts nearKlein Krams, immediately thought about the werewolf who could not bewounded. He now thought that he would be able to kill the werewolf.At the next hunt he said to his friends, as he rammed a bullet ofinherited silver into the barrel of his rifle, "Today the werewolf willnot escape from me!" His companions looked at him in amazement, but hesaid nothing further.The hunt soon began, and it did not take long before the wolf showedhimself once again. Many of the huntsmen shot at him, but he remainedunwounded. Finally he approached the forester, who brought him to theground. Everyone could see that the wolf was wounded, but soon he jumpedup again and ran into the village. The huntsmen followed him, but thewerewolf outran them and disappeared into the Feeg farmyard.In their search, the huntsmen came into the house, where they found thewolf in the grandmother's bed. They recognized it from the tail that wassticking out from under the covers.The werewolf was no one other than Feeg's grandmother. In her pain shehad forgotten to take off the strap, and thus she herself revealed thesecret.