ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen who loved each other somuch that they were never happy unless they were together. Day after daythey went out hunting or fishing. night after night they went to ballsor to the opera. they sang, and danced, and ate sugar plums, and werethe gayest of the gay, and all their subjects followed their exampleso that the kingdom was called the Joyous Land. Now in the next kingdomeverything was as different as it could possibly be. The King was sulkyand savage, and never enjoyed himself at all. He looked so ugly andcross that all his subjects feared him, and he hated the very sight ofa cheerful face. so if he ever caught anyone smiling he had his headcut off that very minute. This kingdom was very appropriately called theLand of Tears. Now when this wicked King heard of the happiness of theJolly King, he was so jealous that he collected a great army and set outto fight him, and the news of his approach was soon brought to the Kingand Queen. The Queen, when she heard of it, was frightened out of herwits, and began to cry bitterly. 'Sire,' she said, 'let us collect allour riches and run away as far as ever we can, to the other side of theworld.'But the King answered:'Fie, madam! I am far too brave for that. It is better to die than to bea coward.'Then he assembled all his armed men, and after bidding the Queen atender farewell, he mounted his splendid horse and rode away. When hewas lost to sight the Queen could do nothing but weep, and wring herhands, and cry.'Alas! If the King is killed, what will become of me and of my littledaughter?' and she was so sorrowful that she could neither eat norsleep.The King sent her a letter every day, but at last, one morning, as shelooked out of the palace window, she saw a messenger approaching in hothaste.'What news, courier? What news?' cried the Queen, and he answered:'The battle is lost and the King is dead, and in another moment theenemy will be here.'The poor Queen fell back insensible, and all her ladies carried her tobed, and stood round her weeping and wailing. Then began a tremendousnoise and confusion, and they knew that the enemy had arrived, and verysoon they heard the King himself stamping about the palace seekingthe Queen. Then her ladies put the little Princess into her arms, andcovered her up, head and all, in the bedclothes, and ran for theirlives, and the poor Queen lay there shaking, and hoping she would not befound. But very soon the wicked King clattered into the room, and in afury because the Queen would not answer when he called to her, he toreback her silken coverings and tweaked off her lace cap, and when allher lovely hair came tumbling down over her shoulders, he wound it threetimes round his hand and threw her over his shoulder, where he carriedher like a sack of flour.The poor Queen held her little daughter safe in her arms and shriekedfor mercy, but the wicked King only mocked her, and begged her to go onshrieking, as it amused him, and so mounted his great black horse, androde back to his own country. When he got there he declared that hewould have the Queen and the little Princess hanged on the nearest tree.but his courtiers said that seemed a pity, for when the baby grew up shewould be a very nice wife for the King's only son.The King was rather pleased with this idea, and shut the Queen up inthe highest room of a tall tower, which was very tiny, and miserablyfurnished with a table and a very hard bed upon the floor. Then he sentfor a fairy who lived near his kingdom, and after receiving her withmore politeness than he generally showed, and entertaining her at asumptuous feast, he took her up to see the Queen. The fairy was sotouched by the sight of her misery that when she kissed her hand shewhispered:'Courage, madam! I think I see a way to help you.'The Queen, a little comforted by these words, received her graciously,and begged her to take pity upon the poor little Princess, who had metwith such a sudden reverse of fortune. But the King got very cross whenhe saw them whispering together, and cried harshly:'Make an end of these fine speeches, madam. I brought you here to tellme if the child will grow up pretty and fortunate.'Then the Fairy answered that the Princess would be as pretty, andclever, and well brought up as it was possible to be, and the old Kinggrowled to the Queen that it was lucky for her that it was so, as theywould certainly have been hanged if it were otherwise. Then he stampedoff, taking the Fairy with him, and leaving the poor Queen in tears.'How can I wish my little daughter to grow up pretty if she is tobe married to that horrid little dwarf, the King's son,' she said toherself, 'and yet, if she is ugly we shall both be killed. If I couldonly hide her away somewhere, so that the cruel King could never findher.'As the days went on, the Queen and the little Princess grew thinner andthinner, for their hard hearted gaoler gave them every day only threeboiled peas and a tiny morsel of black bread, so they were alwaysterribly hungry. At last, one evening, as the Queen sat at herspinning wheel for the King was so avaricious that she was made to workday and night she saw a tiny, pretty little mouse creep out of a hole,and said to it:'Alas, little creature! what are you coming to look for here? I onlyhave three peas for my day's provision, so unless you wish to fast youmust go elsewhere.'But the mouse ran hither and thither, and danced and capered soprettily, that at last the Queen gave it her last pea, which she waskeeping for her supper, saying: 'Here, little one, eat it up. I havenothing better to offer you, but I give this willingly in return for theamusement I have had from you.'She had hardly spoken when she saw upon the table a delicious littleroast partridge, and two dishes of preserved fruit. 'Truly,' said she,'a kind action never goes unrewarded. 'and she and the little Princessate their supper with great satisfaction, and then the Queen gave whatwas left to the little mouse, who danced better than ever afterwards.The next morning came the gaoler with the Queen's allowance of threepeas, which he brought in upon a large dish to make them look smaller.but as soon as he set it down the little mouse came and ate up allthree, so that when the Queen wanted her dinner there was nothing leftfor her. Then she was quite provoked, and said:'What a bad little beast that mouse must be! If it goes on like this Ishall be starved.' But when she glanced at the dish again it was coveredwith all sorts of nice things to eat, and the Queen made a very gooddinner, and was gayer than usual over it. But afterwards as she sat ather spinning wheel she began to consider what would happen if the littlePrincess did not grow up pretty enough to please the King, and she saidto herself:'Oh! if I could only think of some way of escaping.'As she spoke she saw the little mouse playing in a corner with some longstraws. The Queen took them and began to plait them, saying:'If only I had straws enough I would make a basket with them, and letmy baby down in it from the window to any kind passer by who would takecare of her.'By the time the straws were all plaited the little mouse had dragged inmore and more, until the Queen had plenty to make her basket, andshe worked at it day and night, while the little mouse danced for heramusement. and at dinner and supper time the Queen gave it the threepeas and the bit of black bread, and always found something good in thedish in their place. She really could not imagine where all the nicethings came from. At last one day when the basket was finished, theQueen was looking out of the window to see how long a cord she must maketo lower it to the bottom of the tower, when she noticed a little oldwoman who was leaning upon her stick and looking up at her. Presentlyshe said:'I know your trouble, madam. If you like I will help you.''Oh! my dear friend,' said the Queen. 'If you really wish to be of useto me you will come at the time that I will appoint, and I will let downmy poor little baby in a basket. If you will take her, and bring her upfor me, when I am rich I will reward you splendidly.''I don't care about the reward,' said the old woman, 'but there is onething I should like. You must know that I am very particular about whatI eat, and if there is one thing that I fancy above all others, it is aplump, tender little mouse. If there is such a thing in your garretjust throw it down to me, and in return I will promise that your littledaughter shall be well taken care of.'The Queen when she heard this began to cry, but made no answer, and theold woman after waiting a few minutes asked her what was the matter.'Why,' said the Queen, 'there is only one mouse in this garret, and thatis such a dear, pretty little thing that I cannot bear to think of itsbeing killed.''What!' cried the old woman, in a rage. 'Do you care more for amiserable mouse than for your own baby? Good bye, madam! I leave you toenjoy its company, and for my own part I thank my stars that I can getplenty of mice without troubling you to give them to me.'And she hobbled off grumbling and growling. As to the Queen, she was sodisappointed that, in spite of finding a better dinner than usual,and seeing the little mouse dancing in its merriest mood, she could donothing but cry. That night when her baby was fast asleep she packed itinto the basket, and wrote on a slip of paper, 'This unhappy little girlis called Delicia!' This she pinned to its robe, and then very sadly shewas shutting the basket, when in sprang the little mouse and sat on thebaby's pillow.'Ah! little one,' said the Queen, 'it cost me dear to save your life.How shall I know now whether my Delicia is being taken care of or no?Anyone else would have let the greedy old woman have you, and eat youup, but I could not bear to do it.' Whereupon the Mouse answered:'Believe me, madam, you will never repent of your kindness.'The Queen was immensely astonished when the Mouse began to speak, andstill more so when she saw its little sharp nose turn to a beautifulface, and its paws to hands and feet. then it suddenly grew tall, andthe Queen recognised the Fairy who had come with the wicked King tovisit her.The Fairy smiled at her astonished look, and said:'I wanted to see if you were faithful and capable of feeling a realfriendship for me, for you see we fairies are rich in everything butfriends, and those are hard to find.''It is not possible that YOU should want for friends, you charmingcreature,' said the Queen, kissing her.'Indeed it is so,' the Fairy said. 'For those who are only friendly withme for their own advantage, I do not count at all. But when you caredfor the poor little mouse you could not have known there was anything tobe gained by it, and to try you further I took the form of the old womanwhom you talked to from the window, and then I was convinced that youreally loved me.' Then, turning to the little Princess, she kissed herrosy lips three times, saying:'Dear little one, I promise that you shall be richer than your father,and shall live a hundred years, always pretty and happy, without fear ofold age and wrinkles.'The Queen, quite delighted, thanked the Fairy gratefully, and beggedher to take charge of the little Delicia and bring her up as her owndaughter. This she agreed to do, and then they shut the basket andlowered it carefully, baby and all, to the ground at the foot of thetower. The Fairy then changed herself back into the form of a mouse,and this delayed her a few seconds, after which she ran nimbly down thestraw rope, but only to find when she got to the bottom that the babyhad disappeared.In the greatest terror she ran up again to the Queen, crying:'All is lost! my enemy Cancaline has stolen the Princess away. You mustknow that she is a cruel fairy who hates me, and as she is older thanI am and has more power, I can do nothing against her. I know no way ofrescuing Delicia from her clutches.'When the Queen heard this terrible news she was heart broken, and beggedthe Fairy to do all she could to get the poor little Princess backagain. At this moment in came the gaoler, and when he missed the littlePrincess he at once told the King, who came in a great fury asking whatthe Queen had done with her. She answered that a fairy, whose name shedid not know, had come and carried her off by force. Upon this the Kingstamped upon the ground, and cried in a terrible voice:'You shall be hung! I always told you you should.' And without anotherword he dragged the unlucky Queen out into the nearest wood, and climbedup into a tree to look for a branch to which he could hang her. Butwhen he was quite high up, the Fairy, who had made herself invisible andfollowed them, gave him a sudden push, which made him lose his footingand fall to the ground with a crash and break four of his teeth, andwhile he was trying to mend them the fairy carried the Queen off in herflying chariot to a beautiful castle, where she was so kind to her thatbut for the loss of Delicia the Queen would have been perfectly happy.But though the good little mouse did her very utmost, they could notfind out where Cancaline had hidden the little Princess.Thus fifteen years went by, and the Queen had somewhat recovered fromher grief, when the news reached her that the son of the wicked Kingwished to marry the little maiden who kept the turkeys, and that she hadrefused him. the wedding dresses had been made, nevertheless, and thefestivities were to be so splendid that all the people for leagues roundwere flocking in to be present at them. The Queen felt quite curiousabout a little turkey maiden who did not wish to be a Queen, so thelittle mouse conveyed herself to the poultry yard to find out what shewas like.She found the turkey maiden sitting upon a big stone, barefooted, andmiserably dressed in an old, coarse linen gown and cap. the groundat her feet was all strewn with robes of gold and silver, ribbons andlaces, diamonds and pearls, over which the turkeys were stalking toand fro, while the King's ugly, disagreeable son stood opposite her,declaring angrily that if she would not marry him she should be killed.The Turkey maiden answered proudly:'I never will marry you! you are too ugly and too much like your cruelfather. Leave me in peace with my turkeys, which I like far better thanall your fine gifts.'The little mouse watched her with the greatest admiration, for she wasas beautiful as the spring. and as soon as the wicked Prince was gone,she took the form of an old peasant woman and said to her:'Good day, my pretty one! you have a fine flock of turkeys there.'The young Turkey maiden turned her gentle eyes upon the old woman, andanswered:'Yet they wish me to leave them to become a miserable Queen! what isyour advice upon the matter?''My child,' said the Fairy, 'a crown is a very pretty thing, but youknow neither the price nor the weight of it.''I know so well that I have refused to wear one,' said the littlemaiden, 'though I don't know who was my father, or who was my mother,and I have not a friend in the world.''You have goodness and beauty, which are of more value than tenkingdoms,' said the wise Fairy. 'But tell me, child, how came you here,and how is it you have neither father, nor mother, nor friend?''A Fairy called Cancaline is the cause of my being here,' answered she,'for while I lived with her I got nothing but blows and harsh words,until at last I could bear it no longer, and ran away from her withoutknowing where I was going, and as I came through a wood the wickedPrince met me, and offered to give me charge of the poultry yard. Iaccepted gladly, not knowing that I should have to see him day by day.And now he wants to marry me, but that I will never consent to.'Upon hearing this the Fairy became convinced that the littleTurkey maiden was none other than the Princess Delicia.'What is your name, my little one?' said she.'I am called Delicia, if it please you,' she answered.Then the Fairy threw her arms round the Princess's neck, and nearlysmothered her with kisses, saying:'Ah, Delicia! I am a very old friend of yours, and I am truly glad tofind you at last. but you might look nicer than you do in that old gown,which is only fit for a kitchen maid. Take this pretty dress and let ussee the difference it will make.'So Delicia took off the ugly cap, and shook out all her fair shininghair, and bathed her hands and face in clear water from the nearestspring till her cheeks were like roses, and when she was adorned withthe diamonds and the splendid robe the Fairy had given her, she lookedthe most beautiful Princess in the world, and the Fairy with greatdelight cried:'Now you look as you ought to look, Delicia: what do you think about ityourself?'And Delicia answered:'I feel as if I were the daughter of some great king.''And would you be glad if you were?' said the Fairy.'Indeed I should,' answered she.'Ah, well,' said the Fairy, 'to morrow I may have some pleasant news foryou.'So she hurried back to her castle, where the Queen sat busy with herembroidery, and cried:'Well, madam! will you wager your thimble and your golden needle that Iam bringing you the best news you could possibly hear?''Alas!' sighed the Queen, 'since the death of the Jolly King and theloss of my Delicia, all the news in the world is not worth a pin to me.'There, there, don't be melancholy,' said the Fairy. 'I assure you thePrincess is quite well, and I have never seen her equal for beauty. Shemight be a Queen to morrow if she chose. 'and then she told all thathad happened, and the Queen first rejoiced over the thought of Delicia'sbeauty, and then wept at the idea of her being a Turkey maiden.'I will not hear of her being made to marry the wicked King's son,' shesaid. 'Let us go at once and bring her here.'In the meantime the wicked Prince, who was very angry with Delicia, hadsat himself down under a tree, and cried and howled with rage and spiteuntil the King heard him, and cried out from the window:'What is the matter with you, that you are making all this disturbance?'The Prince replied:'It is all because our Turkey maiden will not love me!''Won't love you? eh!' said the King. 'We'll very soon see about that!'So he called his guards and told them to go and fetch Delicia. 'See if Idon't make her change her mind pretty soon!' said the wicked King with achuckle.Then the guards began to search the poultry yard, and could findnobody there but Delicia, who, with her splendid dress and her crown ofdiamonds, looked such a lovely Princess that they hardly dared to speakto her. But she said to them very politely:'Pray tell me what you are looking for here?''Madam,' they answered, 'we are sent for an insignificant little personcalled Delicia.''Alas!' said she, 'that is my name. What can you want with me?'So the guards tied her hands and feet with thick ropes, for fear shemight run away, and brought her to the King, who was waiting with hisson.When he saw her he was very much astonished at her beauty, which wouldhave made anyone less hard hearted sorry for her. But the wicked Kingonly laughed and mocked at her, and cried: 'Well, little fright, littletoad! why don't you love my son, who is far too handsome and too goodfor you? Make haste and begin to love him this instant, or you shall betarred and feathered.'Then the poor little Princess, shaking with terror, went down on herknees, crying:'Oh, don't tar and feather me, please! It would be so uncomfortable. Letme have two or three days to make up my mind, and then you shall do asyou like with me.'The wicked Prince would have liked very much to see her tarred andfeathered, but the King ordered that she should be shut up in a darkdungeon. It was just at this moment that the Queen and the Fairy arrivedin the flying chariot, and the Queen was dreadfully distressed at theturn affairs had taken, and said miserably that she was destined to beunfortunate all her days. But the Fairy bade her take courage.'I'll pay them out yet,' said she, nodding her head with an air of greatdetermination.That very same night, as soon as the wicked King had gone to bed, theFairy changed herself into the little mouse, and creeping up on to hispillow nibbled his ear, so that he squealed out quite loudly and turnedover on his other side. but that was no good, for the little mouse onlyset to work and gnawed away at the second ear until it hurt more thanthe first one.Then the King cried 'Murder!' and 'Thieves!' and all his guards ran tosee what was the matter, but they could find nothing and nobody, forthe little mouse had run off to the Prince's room and was serving himin exactly the same way. All night long she ran from one to the other,until at last, driven quite frantic by terror and want of sleep, theKing rushed out of the palace crying:'Help! help! I am pursued by rats.'The Prince when he heard this got up also, and ran after the King, andthey had not gone far when they both fell into the river and were neverheard of again.Then the good Fairy ran to tell the Queen, and they went together to theblack dungeon where Delicia was imprisoned. The Fairy touched each doorwith her wand, and it sprang open instantly, but they had to go throughforty before they came to the Princess, who was sitting on the floorlooking very dejected. But when the Queen rushed in, and kissed hertwenty times in a minute, and laughed, and cried, and told Delicia allher history, the Princess was wild with delight. Then the Fairy showedher all the wonderful dresses and jewels she had brought for her, andsaid:'Don't let us waste time. we must go and harangue the people.'So she walked first, looking very serious and dignified, and wearing adress the train of which was at least ten ells long. Behind her came theQueen wearing a blue velvet robe embroidered with gold, and a diamondcrown that was brighter than the sun itself. Last of all walked Delicia,who was so beautiful that it was nothing short of marvellous.They proceeded through the streets, returning the salutations of allthey met, great or small, and all the people turned and followed them,wondering who these noble ladies could be.When the audience hall was quite full, the Fairy said to the subjects ofthe Wicked King that if they would accept Delicia, who was the daughterof the Jolly King, as their Queen, she would undertake to find asuitable husband for her, and would promise that during their reignthere should be nothing but rejoicing and merry making, and all dismalthings should be entirely banished. Upon this the people cried with oneaccord, 'We will, we will! we have been gloomy and miserable too longalready.' And they all took hands and danced round the Queen, andDelicia, and the good Fairy, singing: 'Yes, yes. we will, we will!'Then there were feasts and fireworks in every street in the town, andearly the next morning the Fairy, who had been all over the world in thenight, brought back with her, in her flying chariot, the most handsomeand good tempered Prince she could find anywhere. He was so charmingthat Delicia loved him from the moment their eyes met, and as for him,of course he could not help thinking himself the luckiest Prince inthe world. The Queen felt that she had really come to the end of hermisfortunes at last, and they all lived happily ever after.(10)(10) La bonne vetite Souris' par Madame d'Aulnoy.