(_Told in the Wexford Peasant Dialect._)There was once a king, some place or other, and he had three daughters.The two eldest were very proud and uncharitable, but the youngest was asgood as they were bad. Well, three princes came to court them, and twoof them were the _moral_ of the two eldest ladies, and one was just aslovable as the youngest. They were all walking down to a lake one daythat lay at the bottom of the lawn, just like the one at Castleboro',and they met a poor beggar. The King wouldn't give him anything, and theeldest princes wouldn't give him anything, nor their sweethearts. butthe youngest daughter and her true love did give him something, and kindwords along with it, and that was better _nor_ all.When they got to the edge of the lake, what did they find but thebeautifulest boat you ever saw in your life. and says the eldest, "I'lltake a sail in this fine boat." and says the second eldest, "I'll take asail in this fine boat." and says the youngest, "I won't take a sail inthat fine boat, for I'm afraid it's an enchanted one." But the othersoverpersuaded her to go in, and her father was just going in after her,when up sprung on the deck a little man only seven inches high, and heordered him to stand back. Well, all the men put their hands to their_soords_. and if the same soords were only thraneens they weren't ableto draw them, for all _sthrenth_ was left their arms. _Seven Inches_loosened the silver chain that fastened the boat and pushed away. andafter grinning at the four men, says he to them: "Bid your daughters andyour brides farewell for awhile. That wouldn't have happened you three,only for your want of charity. You," says he to the youngest, "needn'tfear. you'll recover your princess all in good time, and you and shewill be as happy as the day is long. Bad people, if they were rollingstark naked in gold, would not be rich. _Banacht lath!_" Away theysailed, and the ladies stretched out their hands, but weren't able tosay a word.Well, they were crossin' the lake while a cat'd be lickin' her ear, andthe poor men couldn't stir hand nor foot to follow them. They saw _SevenInches_ handing the three princesses out of the boat, and letting themdown by a nice basket and _winglas_ into a draw well that wasconvenient, but king nor princes never saw an opening before in the sameplace. When the last lady was out of sight the men found the strength intheir arms and legs again. Round the lake they ran, and never drew reintill they came to the well and windlass, and there was the silk roperolled on the axle, and the nice white basket hanging to it. "Let medown," says the youngest prince. "I'll die or recover them again.""No," says the second daughter's sweetheart, "I'm entitled to my turnbefore you." "And," says the other, "I must get first turn, in right ofmy bride." So they gave way to him, and in he got into the basket, anddown they let him. First they lost sight of him, and then, after windingoff a hundred perches of the silk rope, it slackened, and they stoppedturning. They waited two hours, and then they went to dinner, becausethere was no chuck made at the rope.Guards were set till morning, and then down went the second prince, and,sure enough, the youngest of all got himself let down on the third day.He went down perches and perches, while it was as dark about him as ifhe was in a big pot with the cover on. At last he saw a glimmer fardown, and in a short time he felt the ground. Out he came from the biglime kiln, and lo and behold you, there was a wood and green fields, anda castle in a lawn, and a bright sky over all. "It's in Tir na n Oge Iam," says he. "Let's see what sort of people are in the castle." On hewalked across fields and lawn, and no one was there to keep him out orlet him into the castle. but the big hall door was wide open. He wentfrom one fine room to another that was finer, and at last he reached thehandsomest of all, with a table in the middle. and such a dinner as waslaid upon it! The prince was hungry enough, but he was too mannerly togo eat without being invited. So he sat by the fire, and he did not waitlong till he heard steps, and in came _Seven Inches_ and the youngestsister by the hand. Well, prince and princess flew into one another'sarms, and says the little man, says he, "Why aren't you eating?" "Ithink, sir," says he, "it was only good manners to wait to be asked.""The other princes didn't think so," says he. "Each of them fell towithout leave nor license, and only gave me the rough side o' his tonguewhen I told them they were making more free than welcome. Well, I don'tthink they feel much hunger now. There they are, good _marvel_ insteadof flesh and blood," says he, pointing to two statues, one in one cornerand the other in the other corner of the room. The prince wasfrightened, but he was afraid to say anything, and _Seven Inches_ madehim sit down to dinner between himself and his bride, and he'd be ashappy as the day is long, only for the sight of the stone men in thecorner. Well, that day went by, and when the next came, says _SevenInches_ to him, "Now, you'll have to set out that way," pointing to thesun, "and you'll find the second princess in a giant's castle thisevening, when you'll be tired and hungry, and the eldest princessto morrow evening. and you may as well bring them here with you. Youneed not ask leave of their masters. they're only housekeepers with thebig fellows. I suppose, if they ever get home, they'll look on poorpeople as if they were flesh and blood like themselves."Away went the prince, and bedad it's tired and hungry he was when hereached the first castle at sunset. Oh, wasn't the second princess gladto see him! And if she didn't give him a good supper it's a wonder. Butshe heard the giant at the gate, and she hid the prince in a closet.Well, when he came in, he snuffed, and he snuffed, an' says he, "_Be_(by) the life, I smell fresh mate." "Oh," says the princess, "it's onlythe calf I got killed to day." "Ay, ay," says he, "is supper ready?""It is," says she. and before he ruz from the table he hidthree quarters of the calf and a kag of wine. "I think," says he, whenall was done, "I smell fresh mate still." "It's sleepy you are," saysshe. "go to bed." "When will you marry me?" says the giant. "you'reputtin' me off too long." "St. Tibb's Eve," says she. "I wish I knew howfar off that is," says he. and he fell asleep with his head in the dish.Next day he went out after breakfast, and she sent the prince to thecastle where the eldest sister was. The same thing happened there. butwhen the giant was snoring, the princess wakened up the prince, and theysaddled two steeds in the stables, and _magh go bragh_ (the field forever) with them. But the horses' heels struck the stones outside thegate, and up got the giant, and after them he made. He roared, and heshouted, and the more he shouted the faster ran the horses. and just asthe day was breaking he was only twenty perches behind. But the princedidn't leave the Castle of _Seven Inches_ without being provided withsomething good. He reined in his steed, and flung a short, sharp knifeover his shoulder, and up sprung a thick wood between the giant andthemselves. They caught the wind that blew before them, and the windthat blew behind them did not catch them. At last they were near thecastle where the other sister lived. and there she was, waiting for themunder a high hedge, and a fine steed under her.But the giant was now in sight, roaring like a hundred lions, and theother giant was out in a moment, and the chase kept on. For every twosprings the horses gave the giants gave three, and at last they wereonly seventy perches off. Then the prince stopped again and flung thesecond skian behind him. Down went all the flat field, till there was aquarry between them a quarter of a mile deep, and the bottom filled withblack water. and before the giants could get round it the prince andprincesses were inside the domain of the great magician, where the highthorny hedge opened of itself to everyone that he chose to let in.Well, to be sure, there was joy enough between the three sisters tillthe two eldest saw their lovers turned into stone. But while they wereshedding tears for them _Seven Inches_ came in and touched them with hisrod. So they were flesh and blood and life once more, and there wasgreat hugging and kissing, and all sat down to a nice breakfast, and_Seven Inches_ sat at the head of the table.When breakfast was over he took them into another room, where there wasnothing but heaps of gold and silver and diamonds, and silks and satins.and on a table there was lying three sets of crowns: a gold crown was ina silver crown, and that was lying in a copper crown. He took up one setof crowns and gave it to the eldest princess. and another set, and gaveit to the second princess. and another set, and gave it to the youngestprincess of all. and says he, "Now you may all go to the bottom of thepit, and you have nothing to do but stir the basket, and the people thatare watching above will draw you up, princesses first, princes after.But remember, ladies, you are to keep your crowns safe, and be marriedin them all the same day. If you be married separately, or if you bemarried without your crowns, a curse will follow mind what I say."So they took leave of him with great respect, and walked arm in arm tothe bottom of the draw well. There was a sky and a sun over them and agreat high wall, and the bottom of the draw well was inside the arch.The youngest pair went last, and says the princess to the prince, "I'msure the two princes don't mean any good to you. Keep these crowns underyour cloak, and if you are obliged to stay last, don't get into thebasket, but put a big stone, or any heavy thing, inside, and see whatwill happen."So when they were inside the dark cave they put in the eldest princessfirst, and she stirred the basket and up she went, but first she gave alittle scream. Then the basket was let down again, and up went thesecond princess, and then up went the youngest. but first she put herarms round her prince's neck and kissed him, and cried a little. At lastit came to the turn of the youngest prince, and well became him insteadof going into the basket he put in a big stone. He drew on one side andlistened, and after the basket was drawn up about twenty perch down cameitself and the stone like thunder, and the stone was made _brishe_ of onthe flags.Well, my poor prince had nothing for it but to walk back to the castle.and through it and round it he walked, and the finest of eating anddrinking he got, and a bed of bog down to sleep on, and fine walks hetook through gardens and lawns, but not a sight could he get, high orlow, of _Seven Inches_. Well, I don't think any of _us_ would be tiredof this way of living for ever! Maybe we would. Anyhow, the prince gottired of it before a week, he was so lonesome for his true love. and atthe end of a month he didn't know what to do with himself.One morning he went into the treasure room and took notice of abeautiful snuff box on the table that he didn't remember seeing therebefore. He took it in his hands and opened it, and out _Seven Inches_walked on the table. "I think, prince," says he, "you're getting alittle tired of my castle?" "Ah!" says the other, "if I had my princesshere, and could see you now and then, I'd never see a dismal day.""Well, you're long enough here now, and you're wanting there above. Keepyour bride's crowns safe, and whenever you want my help open thissnuff box. Now take a walk down the garden, and come back when you'retired."Well, the prince was going down a gravel walk with a quick set hedge oneach side and his eyes on the ground, and he thinking on one thing andanother. At last he lifted his eyes, and there he was outside of asmith's bawn gate that he had often passed before, about a mile awayfrom the palace of his betrothed princess. The clothes he had on himwere as ragged as you please, but he had his crowns safe under his oldcloak.So the smith came out, and says he, "It's a shame for a strong bigfellow like you to be on the _sthra_, and so much work to be done. Areyou any good with hammer and tongs? Come in and bear a hand, and I'llgive you diet and lodging and a few thirteens when you earn them." "Neversay't twice," says the prince. "I want nothing but to be employed." Sohe took the sledge and pounded away at the red hot bar that the smithwas turning on the anvil to make into a set of horse shoes.Well, they weren't long powdhering away, when a _stronshuch_ (idler) ofa tailor came in. and when the smith asked him what news he had, he gotthe handle of the bellows and began to blow to let out all he had heardfor the last two days. There were so many questions and answers at firstthat, if I told them all, it would be bed time before I'd be done. Sohere is the substance of the discourse. and before he got far into itthe forge was half filled with women knitting stockings and men smoking.Yous all heard how the two princesses were unwilling to be married tillthe youngest would be ready with her crowns and her sweetheart. Butafter the windlass loosened _accidentally_ when they were pulling up herbridegroom that was to be, there was no more sign of a well or a rope ora windlass than there is on the palm of your hand. So the buckeens thatwere coortin' the eldest ladies wouldn't give peace nor ease to theirlovers nor the King till they got consent to the marriage, and it was totake place this morning. Myself went down out of curiosity. and to besure I was delighted with the grand dresses of the two brides and thethree crowns on their heads gold, silver, and copper one inside theother. The youngest was standing by, mournful enough, in white, and allwas ready. The two bridegrooms came walking in as proud and grand as youplease, and up they were walking to the altar rails when, my dear, theboards opened two yards wide under their feet, and down they went amongthe dead men and the coffins in the vaults. Oh, such screeching as theladies gave! and such running and racing and peeping down as there was.but the clerk soon opened the door of the vault, and up came the twoheroes, and their fine clothes covered an inch thick with cobwebs andmould.So the King said they should put off the marriage, "For," says he, "Isee there is no use in thinking of it till my youngest gets her threecrowns and is married along with the others. I'll give my youngestdaughter for a wife to whoever brings three crowns to me like theothers. and if he doesn't care to be married, some other one will, andI'll make his fortune." "I wish," says the smith, "I could do it. but Iwas looking at the crowns after the princesses got home, and I don'tthink there's a black or a white smith on the face of the earth couldimitate them." "Faint heart never won fair lady," says the prince. "Goto the palace, and ask for a quarter of a pound of gold, a quarter of apound of silver, and a quarter of a pound of copper. Get one crown for apattern, and my head for a pledge, and I'll give you out the very thingsthat are wanted in the morning." "Ubbabow," says the smith, "are you inearnest?" "Faith, I am so," says he. "Go! Worse than lose you can't."To make a long story short, the smith got the quarter of a pound ofgold, and the quarter of a pound of silver, and the quarter of a poundof copper, and gave them and the pattern crown to the prince. He shutthe forge door at nightfall, and the neighbours all gathered in thebawn, and they heard him hammering, hammering, hammering, from that todaybreak, and every now and then he'd pitch out through the window bitsof gold, silver, or copper. and the idlers scrambled for them, andcursed one another, and prayed for the good luck of the workman.Well, just as the sun was thinking to rise he opened the door andbrought the three crowns he got from his true love, and such shoutingand huzzaing as there was! The smith asked him to go along with him tothe palace, but he refused. so off set the smith, and the whole townlandwith him. and wasn't the King rejoiced when he saw the crowns! "Well,"says he to the smith, "you're a married man, and what's to be done?""Faith, your majesty, I didn't make them crowns at all. it was a bigshuler (vagrant) of a fellow that took employment with me yesterday.""Well, daughter, will you marry the fellow that made these crowns?" "Letme see them first, father." So when she examined them she knew themright well, and guessed it was her true love that had sent them. "I willmarry the man that these crowns came from," says she."Well," said the King to the eldest of the two princes, "go up to thesmith's forge, take my best coach, and bring home the bridegroom." Hewas very unwilling to do this, he was so proud, but he did not wish torefuse. When he came to the forge he saw the prince standing at thedoor, and beckoned him over to the coach. "Are you the fellow," says he,"that made them crowns?" "Yes," says the other. "Then," says he, "maybeyou'd give yourself a brushing, and get into that coach. the King wantsto see you. I pity the princess." The young prince got into thecarriage, and while they were on the way he opened the snuff box, andout walked _Seven Inches_, and stood on his thigh. "Well," says he,"what trouble is on you now?" "Master," says the other, "please to letme back in my forge, and let this carriage be filled withpaving stones." No sooner said than done. The prince was sitting in hisforge, and the horses wondered what was after happening to the carriage.When they came to the palace yard the King himself opened the carriagedoor to pay respect to the new son in law. As soon as he turned thehandle a shower of stones fell on his powdered wig and his silk coat,and down he fell under them. There was great fright, and some tittering,and the King, after he wiped the blood from his forehead, looked verycross at the eldest prince. "My liege," says he, "I'm very sorry forthis _accidence_, but I'm not to blame. I saw the young smith get intothe carriage, and we never stopped a minute since." "It's uncivil youwere to him. Go," says he to the other prince, "and bring the youngprince here, and be polite." "Never fear," says he.But there's some people that couldn't be good natured if they were to bemade heirs of Damer's estate. Not a bit civiller was the new messengerthan the old, and when the King opened the carriage door a second timeit's a shower of mud that came down on him. and if he didn't fume andsplutter and shake himself it's no matter. "There's no use," says he,"going on this way. The fox never got a better messenger than himself."So he changed his clothes and washed himself, and out he set to thesmith's forge. Maybe he wasn't polite to the young prince, and asked himto sit along with himself. The prince begged to be allowed to sit in theother carriage, and when they were half way he opened his snuff box."Master," says he, "I'd wished to be dressed now according to my rank.""You shall be that," says _Seven Inches_. "And now I'll bid youfarewell. Continue as good and kind as you always were. love your wife,and that's all the advice I'll give you." So _Seven Inches_ vanished.and when the carriage door was opened in the yard, out walks the prince,as fine as hands and pins could make him, and the first thing he did wasto run over to his bride and embrace her very heartily.Everyone had great joy but the two other princes. There was not muchdelay about the marriages that were all celebrated on the same day, andthe youngest prince and princess were the happiest married couple youever heard of in a story.PATRICK KENNEDY.