Children must often have wondered why jellyfishes have no shells, likeso many of the creatures that are washed up every day on the beach. In oldtimes this was not so. the jellyfish had as hard a shell as any of them,but he lost it through his own fault, as may be seen in this story.The sea queen Otohime grew suddenly very ill. The swiftest messengerswere sent hurrying to fetch the best doctors from every country under thesea, but it was all of no use. the queen grew rapidly worse instead ofbetter. Everyone had almost given up hope, when one day a doctor arrivedwho was cleverer than the rest, and said that the only thing that wouldcure her was the liver of an ape.Now apes do not dwell under the sea, so a council of the wisest headsin the nation was called to consider the question how a liver could beobtained. At length it was decided that the turtle, whose prudence waswell known, should swim to land and contrive to catch a living ape andbring him safely to the ocean kingdom.It was easy enough for the council to entrust this mission to theturtle, but not at all so easy for him to fulfil it. However, he swam to apart of the coast that was covered with tall trees, where he thought theapes were likely to be. for he was old, and had seen many things. It wassome time before he caught sight of any monkeys, and he often grew tiredwith watching for them, so that one hot day he fell fast asleep, in spiteof all his efforts to keep awake.By and by some apes, who had been peeping at him from the tops of thetrees, where they had been carefully hidden from the turtle's eyes, stolenoiselessly down, and stood round staring at him, for they had never seena turtle before, and did not know what to make of it. At last one youngmonkey, bolder than the rest, stooped down and stroked the shining shellthat the strange new creature wore on its back. The movement, gentlethough it was, woke the turtle. With one sweep he seized the monkey's handin his mouth, and held it tight, in spite of every effort to pull it away.The other apes, seeing that the turtle was not to be trifled with, ranoff, leaving their young brother to his fate.Then the turtle said to the monkey, "If you will be quiet, and do whatI tell you, I won't hurt you. But you must get on my back and come withme."The monkey, seeing there was no help for it, did as he was bid. indeedhe could not have resisted, as his hand was still in the turtle'smouth.Delighted at having secured his prize, the turtle hastened back to theshore and plunged quickly into the water. He swam faster than he had everdone before, and soon reached the royal palace. Shouts of joy broke forthfrom the attendants when he was seen approaching, and some of them ran totell the queen that the monkey was there, and that before long she wouldbe as well as ever she was. In fact, so great was their relief that theygave the monkey such a kind welcome, and were so anxious to make him happyand comfortable, that he soon forgot all the fears that had beset him asto his fate, and was generally quite at his ease, though every now andthen a fit of homesickness would come over him, and he would hide himselfin some dark corner till it had passed away.It was during one of these attacks of sadness that a jellyfish happenedto swim by. At that time jellyfishes had shells. At the sight of the gayand lively monkey crouching under a tall rock, with his eyes closed andhis head bent, the jellyfish was filled with pity, and stopped, saying,"Ah, poor fellow, no wonder you weep. a few days more, and they will comeand kill you and give your liver to the queen to eat."The monkey shrank back horrified at these words and asked the jellyfishwhat crime he had committed that deserved death."Oh, none at all," replied the jellyfish, "but your liver is the onlything that will cure our queen, and how can we get at it without killingyou? You had better submit to your fate, and make no noise about it, forthough I pity you from my heart there is no way of helping you." Then hewent away, leaving the ape cold with horror.At first he felt as if his liver was already being taken from his body,but soon he began to wonder if there was no means of escaping thisterrible death, and at length he invented a plan which he thought woulddo. For a few days he pretended to be gay and happy as before, but whenthe sun went in, and rain fell in torrents, he wept and howled from dawnto dark, till the turtle, who was his head keeper, heard him, and came tosee what was the matter. Then the monkey told him that before he left homehe had hung his liver out on a bush to dry, and if it was always going torain like this it would become quite useless. And the rogue made such afuss and moaning that he would have melted a heart of stone, and nothingwould content him but that somebody should carry him back to land and lethim fetch his liver again.The queen's councilors were not the wisest of people, and they decidedbetween them that the turtle should take the monkey back to his nativeland and allow him to get his liver off the bush, but desired the turtlenot to lose sight of his charge for a single moment. The monkey knew this,but trusted to his power of beguiling the turtle when the time came, andmounted on his back with feelings of joy, which he was, however, carefulto conceal.They set out, and in a few hours were wandering about the forest wherethe ape had first been caught, and when the monkey saw his family peeringout from the tree tops, he swung himself up by the nearest branch, justmanaging to save his hind leg from being seized by the turtle. He toldthem all the dreadful things that had happened to him, and gave a war crywhich brought the rest of the tribe from the neighboring hills. At a wordfrom him they rushed in a body to the unfortunate turtle, threw him on hisback, and tore off the shield that covered his body. Then with mockingwords they hunted him to the shore, and into the sea, which he was onlytoo thankful to reach alive.Faint and exhausted he entered the queen's palace, for the cold of thewater struck upon his naked body, and made him feel ill and miserable. Butwretched though he was, he had to appear before the queen's advisers andtell them all that had befallen him, and how he had suffered the monkey toescape. But, as sometimes happens, the turtle was allowed to go scot free,and had his shell given back to him, and all the punishment fell on thepoor jellyfish, who was condemned by the queen to go shieldless for everafter.