Once upon a time there were seven women, neighbors, all of whom wereseized with a great longing for some jujubes which only grew in a gardenopposite the place where they all lived, and which belonged to a witch.Now this witch had a donkey that watched the garden and told the old witchwhen any one entered. The seven neighbors, however, had such a desire forthe jujubes that they entered the garden and threw the donkey some nicesoft grass, and while he was eating it they filled their aprons withjujubes and escaped before the witch appeared. This they did severaltimes, until at last the witch noticed that some one had been in hergarden, for many of the jujubes were gone. She questioned the donkey, buthe had eaten the nice grass and noticed nothing.Then she resolved the third day to remain in the garden herself. In themiddle of it was a hole, in which she hid and covered herself with leavesand branches, leaving only one of her long ears sticking out. The sevenneighbors once more went into the garden and began picking jujubes, whenone of them noticed the witch's ear sticking out of the leaves and thoughtit was a mushroom and tried to pick it. Then the witch jumped out of thehole and ran after the women, all of whom escaped but one.The witch was going to eat her, but she begged hard for pardon andpromised never to enter the garden again. The witch finally forgave her onthe condition that she would give her her child, yet unborn, whether a boyor girl, when it was seven years old. The poor woman promised in herdistress, and the witch let her go.Some time after the woman had a beautiful little girl whom she namedAngiola. When Angiola was six years old, her mother sent her to school tolearn to sew and knit. On her way to school she had to pass the gardenwhere the witch lived. One day, when she was almost seven, she saw thewitch standing in front of her garden.She beckoned to Angiola and gave her some fine fruits and said, "You see,fair Angiola, I am your aunt. Tell your mother you have seen your aunt,and she sends her word not to forget her promise."Angiola went home and told her mother, who was frightened and said toherself, "Ah! the time has come when I must give up my Angiola."Then she said to the child, "When your aunt asks you tomorrow for ananswer, tell her you forgot her errand."The next day she told the witch as she was directed."Very well," she replied, "tell her today, but don't forget."Thus several days passed. the witch was constantly on the watch forAngiola when she went to school, and wanted to know her mother's answer,but Angiola always declared that she had forgotten to ask her.One day, however, the witch became angry and said, "Since you are soforgetful, I must give you some token to remind you of your errand."Then she bit Angiola's little finger so hard that she bit a piece out.Angiola went home in tears and showed her mother her finger."Ah!" thought her mother, "there is no help for it. I must give my poorchild to the witch, or else she will eat her up in her anger."The next morning as Angiola was going to school, her mother said to her,"Tell your aunt to do with you as she thinks best."Angiola did so, and the witch said, "Very well, then come with me, for youare mine."So the witch took the fair Angiola with her and led her away to a towerwhich had no door and but one small window. There Angiola lived with thewitch, who treated her very kindly, for she loved her as her own child.When the witch came home after her excursions, she stood under the windowand cried, "Angiola, fair Angiola, let down your pretty tresses and pullme up!"Now Angiola had beautiful long hair, which she let down and with which shepulled the witch up.Now it happened one day when Angiola had grown to be a large and beautifulmaiden, that the king's son went hunting and chanced to come where thetower was. He was astonished at seeing the house without any door, andwondered how the people got in.Just then the old witch returned home, stood under the window, and called,"Angiola, fair Angiola, let down your beautiful tresses and pull me up."Immediately the beautiful tresses fell down, and the witch climbed up bythem. This pleased the prince greatly, and he hid himself near by untilthe witch went away again.Then he went and stood under the window and called, "Angiola, fairAngiola, let down your beautiful tresses and pull me up."Then Angiola let down her tresses and drew up the prince, for she believedit was the witch. When she saw the prince, she was much frightened atfirst, but he addressed her in a friendly manner and begged her to flywith him and become his wife.She finally consented, and in order that the witch should not know whereshe had gone she gave all the chairs, tables, and cupboards in the housesomething to eat. for they were all living beings and might betray her.The broom, however, stood behind the door, so she did not notice it, andgave it nothing to eat. Then she took from the witch's chamber three magicballs of yarn, and fled with the prince. The witch had a little dog thatloved the fair Angiola so dearly that it followed her.Soon after they had fled, the witch came back, and called, "Angiola, fairAngiola, let down your beautiful tresses and draw me up."But the tresses were not let down for all she called, and at last she hadto get a long ladder and climb in at the window. When she could not findAngiola, she asked the tables and chairs and cupboards, "Where has shefled?"But they answered, "We do not know."The broom, however, called out from the corner, "The fair Angiola has fledwith the king's son, who is going to marry her."Then the witch started in pursuit of them and nearly overtook them. ButAngiola threw down behind her one of the magic balls of yarn, and therearose a great mountain of soap. When the witch tried to climb it sheslipped back, but she persevered until at last she succeeded in gettingover it, and hastened after the fugitives.Then Angiola threw down the second ball of yarn, and there arose a greatmountain covered all over with nails small and large. Again the witch hadto struggle hard to cross it. when she did she was almost flayed.When Angiola saw that the witch had almost overtaken them again, she threwdown the third ball, and there arose a mighty torrent. The witch tried toswim across it, but the stream kept increasing in size until she had atlast to turn back.Then in her anger she cursed the fair Angiola, saying, "May your beautifulface be turned into the face of a dog!" and instantly Angiola's facebecame a dog's face.The prince was very sorrowful and said, "How can I take you home to myparents? They would never allow me to marry a maiden with a dog's face."So he took her to a little house, where she was to live until theenchantment was removed. He himself returned to his parents. but wheneverhe went hunting he visited poor Angiola.She often wept bitterly over her misfortunes, until one day the little dogthat had followed her from the witch's said, "Do not weep, fair Angiola. Iwill go to the witch and beg her to remove the enchantment." Then thelittle dog started off and returned to the witch and sprang up on her andcaressed her."Are you here again, you ungrateful beast?" cried the witch, and pushedthe dog away. "Did you leave me to follow the ungrateful Angiola?"But the little dog caressed her until she grew friendly again and took himup on her lap. "Mother," said the little dog," Angiola sends you greeting.she is very sad, for she cannot go to the palace with her dog's face andcannot marry the prince.""That serves her right," said the witch." Why did she deceive me? She cankeep her dog's face now!"But the dog begged her so earnestly, saying that poor Angiola wassufficiently punished, that at last the witch gave the dog a flask ofwater, and said, "Take that to her and she will become the fair Angiolaagain."The dog thanked her, ran off with the flask, and brought it safely to poorAngiola. As soon as she washed in the water, her dog's face disappearedand she became beautiful again, more beautiful even than she had beenbefore.The prince, full of joy, took her to the palace, and the king and queenwere so pleased with her beauty that they welcomed her, and gave her asplendid wedding, and all remained happy and contented.