Translated from the German of Hans Andersen by Miss Alma Alleyne.There was once a dreadfully wicked hobgoblin. One day he was in capitalspirits because he had made a looking glass which reflected everythingthat was good and beautiful in such a way that it dwindled almost tonothing, but anything that was bad and ugly stood out very clearly andlooked much worse. The most beautiful landscapes looked like boiledspinach, and the best people looked repulsive or seemed to stand ontheir heads with no bodies. their faces were so changed that they couldnot be recognised, and if anyone had a freckle you might be sure itwould be spread over the nose and mouth.That was the best part of it, said the hobgoblin.But one day the looking glass was dropped, and it broke into amillion billion and more pieces.And now came the greatest misfortune of all, for each of the pieceswas hardly as large as a grain of sand and they flew about all over theworld, and if anyone had a bit in his eye there it stayed, and then hewould see everything awry, or else could only see the bad sides of acase. For every tiny splinter of the glass possessed the same power thatthe whole glass had.Some people got a splinter in their hearts, and that was dreadful, forthen it began to turn into a lump of ice.The hobgoblin laughed till his sides ached, but still the tiny bits ofglass flew about.And now we will hear all about it.In a large town, where there were so many people and houses that therewas not room enough for everybody to have gardens, lived two poorchildren. They were not brother and sister, but they loved each otherjust as much as if they were. Their parents lived opposite one anotherin two attics, and out on the leads they had put two boxes filled withflowers. There were sweet peas in it, and two rose trees, which growbeautifully, and in summer the two children were allowed to take theirlittle chairs and sit out under the roses. Then they had splendid games.In the winter they could not do this, but then they put hot penniesagainst the frozen window panes, and made round holes to look at eachother through.His name was Kay, and hers was Gerda.Outside it was snowing fast.'Those are the white bees swarming,' said the old grandmother.'Have they also a queen bee?' asked the little boy, for he knew that thereal bees have one.'To be sure,' said the grandmother. 'She flies wherever they swarmthe thickest. She is larger than any of them, and never stays upon theearth, but flies again up into the black clouds. Often at midnight sheflies through the streets, and peeps in at all the windows, and thenthey freeze in such pretty patterns and look like flowers.''Yes, we have seen that,' said both children. they knew that it wastrue.'Can the Snow queen come in here?' asked the little girl.'Just let her!' cried the boy, 'I would put her on the stove, and melther!'But the grandmother stroked his hair, and told some more stories.In the evening, when little Kay was going to bed, he jumped on the chairby the window, and looked through the little hole. A few snow flakeswere falling outside, and one of the, the largest, lay on the edge ofone of the window boxes. The snow flake grew larger and larger till ittook the form of a maiden, dressed in finest white gauze.She was so beautiful and dainty, but all of ice, hard bright ice.Still she was alive. her eyes glittered like two clear stars, but therewas no rest or peace in them. She nodded at the window, and beckonedwith her hand. The little boy was frightened, and sprang down from thechair. It seemed as if a great white bird had flown past the window.The next day there was a harder frost than before.Then came the spring, then the summer, when the roses grew and smeltmore beautifully than ever.Kay and Gerda were looking at one of their picture books the clock inthe great church tower had just struck five, when Kay exclaimed, 'Oh!something has stung my heart, and I've got something in my eye!'The little girl threw her arms round his neck. he winked hard with bothhis eyes. no, she could see nothing in them.'I think it is gone now,' said he. but it had not gone. It was one ofthe tiny splinters of the glass of the magic mirror which we have heardabout, that turned everything great and good reflected in it small andugly. And poor Kay had also a splinter in his heart, and it began tochange into a lump of ice. It did not hurt him at all, but the splinterwas there all the same.'Why are you crying?' he asked. 'it makes you look so ugly! There'snothing the matter with me. Just look! that rose is all slug eaten, andthis one is stunted! What ugly roses they are!'And he began to pull them to pieces.'Kay, what are you doing?' cried the little girl.And when he saw how frightened she was, he pulled off another rose, andran in at his window away from dear little Gerda.When she came later on with the picture book, he said that it was onlyfit for babies, and when his grandmother told them stories, he wasalways interrupting with, 'But ' and then he would get behind her andput on her spectacles, and speak just as she did. This he did very well,and everybody laughed. Very soon he could imitate the way all the peoplein the street walked and talked.His games were now quite different. On a winter's day he would take aburning glass and hold it out on his blue coat and let the snow flakesfall on it.'Look in the glass, Gerda! Just see how regular they are! They are muchmore interesting than real flowers. Each is perfect. they are all madeaccording to rule. If only they did not melt!'One morning Kay came out with his warm gloves on, and his littlesledge hung over his shoulder. He shouted to Gerda, 'I am going to themarket place to play with the other boys,' and away he went.In the market place the boldest boys used often to fasten their sledgesto the carts of the farmers, and then they got a good ride.When they were in the middle of their games there drove into the squarea large sledge, all white, and in it sat a figure dressed in a roughwhite fur pelisse with a white fur cap on.The sledge drove twice round the square, and Kay fastened his littlesledge behind it and drove off. It went quicker and quicker into thenext street. The driver turned round, and nodded to Kay ina friendlyway as if they had known each other before. Every time that Kay triedto unfasten his sledge the driver nodded again, and Kay sat still oncemore. Then they drove out of the town, and the snow began to fall sothickly that the little boy could not see his hand before him, and onand on they went. He quickly unfastened the cord to get loose from thebig sledge, but it was of no use. his little sledge hung on fast, and itwent on like the wind.Then he cried out, but nobody heard him. He was dreadfully frightened.The snowflakes grew larger and larger till they looked like great whitebirds. All at once they flew aside, the large sledge stood still, andthe figure who was driving stood up. The fur cloak and cap were allof snow. It was a lady, tall and slim, and glittering. It was theSnow queen.'We have come at a good rate,' she said. 'but you are almost frozen.Creep in under my cloak.'And she set him close to her in the sledge and drew the cloak over him.He felt as though he were sinking into a snow drift.'Are you cold now?' she asked, and kissed his forehead. The kiss wascold as ice and reached down to his heart, which was already half a lumpof ice.'My sledge! Don't forget my sledge!' He thought of that first, and itwas fastened to one of the great white birds who flew behind with thesledge on its back.The Snow queen kissed Kay again, and then he forgot all about littleGerda, his grandmother, and everybody at home.'Now I must not kiss you any more,' she said, 'or else I should kiss youto death.'Then away they flew over forests and lakes, over sea and land. Roundthem whistled the cold wind, the wolves howled, and the snow hissed.over them flew the black shrieking crows. But high up the moon shonelarge and bright, and thus Kay passed the long winter night. In the dayhe slept at the Snow queen's feet.But what happened to little Gerda when Kay did not come back?What had become of him? Nobody knew. The other boys told how they hadseen him fasten his sledge on to a large one which had driven out of thetown gate.Gerda cried a great deal. The winter was long and dark to her.Then the spring came with warm sunshine. 'I will go and look for Kay,'said Gerda.So she went down to the river and got into a little boat that was there.Presently the stream began to carry it away.'Perhaps the river will take me to Kay,' thought Gerda. She glided down,past trees and fields, till she came to a large cherry garden, in whichstood a little house with strange red and blue windows and a straw roof.Before the door stood two wooden soldiers, who were shouldering arms.Gerda called to them, but they naturally did not answer. The rivercarried the boat on to the land.Gerda called out still louder, and there came out of the house a veryold woman. She leant upon a crutch, and she wore a large sun hat whichwas painted with the most beautiful flowers.'You poor little girl!' said the old woman.And then she stepped into the water, brought the boat in close with hercrutch, and lifted little Gerda out.'And now come and tell me who you are, and how you came here,' she said.Then Gerda told her everything, and asked her if she had seen Kay. Butshe said he had not passed that way yet, but he would soon come.She told Gerda not to be sad, and that she should stay with her and takeof the cherry trees and flowers, which were better than any picture bok,as they could each tell a story.She then took Gerda's hand and led her into the little house and shutthe door.The windows were very high, and the panes were red, blue, and yellow,so that the light came through in curious colours. On the table were themost delicious cherries, and the old woman let Gerda eat as many as sheliked, while she combed her hair with a gold comb as she ate.The beautiful sunny hair rippled and shone round the dear little face,which was so soft and sweet. 'I have always longed to have a dear littlegirl just like you, and you shall see how happy we will be together.'And as she combed Gerda's hair, Gerda thought less and less about Kay,for the old woman was a witch, but not a wicked witch, for she onlyenchanted now and then to amuse herself, and she did want to keep littleGerda very much.So she went into the garden and waved her stick over all the rose bushesand blossoms and all. they sank down into the black earth, and no onecould see where they had been.The old woman was afraid that if Gerda saw the roses she would begin tothink about her own, and then would remember Kay and run away.Then she led Gerda out into the garden. How glorious it was, and whatlovely scents filled the air! All the flowers you can think of blossomedthere all the year round.Gerda jumped for joy and played there till the sun set behind thetall cherry trees, and then she slept in a beautiful bed with red silkpillows filled with violets, and she slept soundly and dreamed as aqueen does on her wedding day.The next day she played again with the flowers in the warm sunshine, andso many days passed by. Gerda knew every flower, but although there wereso many, it seemed to her as if one were not there, though she could notremember which.She was looking one day at the old woman's sun hat which had hte paintedflowers on it, and there she saw a rose.The witch had forgotten to make that vanish when she had made theother roses disappear under the earth. it was so difficult to think ofeverything.'Why, there are no roses here!' cried Gerda,, and she hunted amongst allthe flowers, but not one was to be found. Then she sat down and cried,but her tears fell just on the spot where a rose bush had sunk, and whenher warm tears watered the earth, the bush came up in full bloom justas it had been before. Gerda kissed the roses and thought of the lovelyroses at home, and with them came the thought of little Kay.'Oh, what have I been doing!' said the little girl. 'I wanted to lookfor Kay.'She ran to the end of the garden. The gate was shut, but she pushedagainst the rusty lock so that it came open.She ran out with her little bare feet. No one came after her. At lastshe could not run any longer, and she sat down on a large stone. Whenshe looked round she saw that the summer was over. it was late autumn.It had not changed in the beautiful garden, where were sunshine andflowers all the year round.'Oh, dear, how late I have made myself!' said Gerda. 'It's autumnalready! I cannot rest!' And she sprang up to run on.Oh, how tired and sore her little feet grew, and it became colder andcolder.She had to rest again, and there on the snow in front of her was a largecrow.It had been looking at her for some time, and it nodded its head andsaid, 'Caw! caw! good day.' Then it asked the little girl why she wasalone in the world. She told the crow her story, and asked if he hadseen Kay.The crow nodded very thoughtfully and said, 'It might be! It might be!''What! Do you think you have?' cried the little girl, and she almostsqueezed the crow to death as she kissed him.'Gently, gently!' said the crow. 'I think I know I think it might belittle Kay, but now he has forgotten you for the princess!''Does he live with a princess?' asked Gerda.'Yes, listen,' said the crow.Then he told her all he knew.'In the kingdom in which we are now sitting lives a princess who isdreadfully clever. She has read all the newspapers in the world and hasforgotten them again. She is as clever as that. The other day she cameto the throne, and that is not so pleasant as people think. Then shebegan to say, "Why should I not marry?" But she wanted a husband whocould answer when he was spoken to, not one who would stand up stifflyand look respectable that would be too dull.'When she told all the Court ladies, they were delighted. You canbelieve every word I say,' said the crow, 'I have a tame sweetheart inthe palace, and she tells me everything.'Of course his sweetheart was a crow.'The newspapers came out next morning with a border of hearts round it,and the princess's monogram on it, and inside you could read that everygood looking young man might come into the palace and speak to theprincess, and whoever should speak loud enough to be heard would bewell fed and looked after, and the one who spoke best should become theprincess's husband. Indeed,' said the crow, 'you can quite believe me.It is as true as that I am sitting here.'Young men came in streams, and there was such a crowding and a mixingtogether! But nothing came of it on the first nor on the second day.They could all speak quite well when they were in the street, but assoon as they came inside the palace door, and saw the guards in silver,and upstairs the footmen in gold, and the great hall all lighted up,then their wits left them! And when they stood in front of the thronewhere the princess was sitting, then they could not think of anything tosay except to repeat the last word she had spoken, and she did not muchcare to hear that again. It seemed as if they were walking in theirsleep until they came out into the street again, when they could speakonce more. There was a row stretching from the gate of the town up tothe castle.'They were hungry and thirsty, but in the palace they did not even get aglass of water.'A few of the cleverest had brought some slices of bread and butterwith them, but they did not share them with their neighbour, for theythought, "If he looks hungry, the princess will not take him!"''But what about Kay?' asked Gerda. 'When did he come? Was he in thecrowd?''Wait a bit. we are coming to him! On the third day a little figure camewithout horse or carriage and walked jauntily up to the palace. His eyesshone as yours do. he had lovely curling hair, but quite poor clothes.''That was Kay!' cried Gerda with delight. 'Oh, then I have found him!'and she clapped her hands.'He had a little bundle on his back,' said the crow.'No, it must have been his skates, for he went away with his skates!''Very likely,' said the crow, 'I did not see for certain. But I knowthis from my sweetheart, that when he came to the palace door and sawthe royal guards in silver, and on the stairs the footmen in gold, hewas not the least bit put out. He nodded to them, saying, "It must berather dull standing on the stairs. I would rather go inside!"'The halls blazed with lights. councillors and ambassadors were walkingabout in noiseless shoes carrying gold dishes. It was enough to make onenervous! His boots creaked dreadfully loud, but he was not frightened.''That must be Kay!' said Gerda. 'I know he had new boots on. I haveheard them creaking in his grandmother's room!''They did creak, certainly!' said the crow. 'And, not one bit afraid, uphe went to the princess, who was sitting on a large pearl as round as aspinning wheel. All the ladies in waiting were standing round, each withtheir attendants, and the lords in waiting with their attendants. Thenearer they stood to the door the prouder they were.''It must have been dreadful!' said little Gerda. 'And Kay did win theprincess?''I heard from my tame sweetheart that he was merry and quick witted. hehad not come to woo, he said, but to listen to the princess's wisdom.And the end of it was that they fell in love with each other.''Oh, yes. that was Kay!' said Gerda. 'He was so clever. he could do sumswith fractions. Oh, do lead me to the palace!''That's easily said!' answered the crow, 'but how are we to manage that?I must talk it over with my tame sweetheart. She may be able to adviseus, for I must tell you that a little girl like you could never getpermission to enter it.''Yes, I will get it!' said Gerda. 'When Kay hears that I am there hewill come out at once and fetch me!''Wait for me by the railings,' said the crow, and he nodded his head andflew away.It was late in the evening when he came back.'Caw, caw!' he said, 'I am to give you her love, and here is a littleroll for you. She took it out of the kitchen. there's plenty there,and you must be hungry. You cannot come into the palace. The guards insilver and the footmen in gold would not allow it. But don't cry! Youshall get in all right. My sweetheart knows a little back stairs whichleads to the sleeping room, and she knows where to find the key.'They went into the garden, and when the lights in the palace were putout one after the other, the crow led Gerda to a back door.Oh, how Gerda's heart beat with anxiety and longing! It seemed as if shewere going to do something wrong, but she only wanted to know if it werelittle Kay. Yes, it must be he! She remembered so well his clever eyes,his curly hair. She could see him smiling as he did when they were athome under the rose trees! He would be so pleased to see her, and tohear how they all were at home.Now they were on the stairs. a little lamp was burning, and on thelanding stood the tame crow. She put her head on one side and looked atGerda, who bowed as her grandmother had taught her.'My betrothed has told me many nice things about you, my dear younglady,' she said. 'Will you take the lamp while I go in front? We go thisway so as to meet no one.'Through beautiful rooms they came to the sleeping room. In the middle ofit, hung on a thick rod of gold, were two beds, shaped like lilies, oneall white, in which lay the princess, and the other red, in which Gerdahoped to find Kay. She pushed aside the curtain, and saw a brown neck.Oh, it was Kay! She called his name out loud, holding the lamp towardshim.He woke up, turned his head and it was not Kay!It was only his neck that was like Kay's, but he was young and handsome.The princess sat up in her lily bed and asked who was there.Then Gerda cried, and told her story and all that the crows had done.'You poor child!' said the prince and princess, and they praised thecrows, and said that they were not angry with them, but that they mustnot do it again. Now they should have a reward.'Would you like to fly away free?' said the princess, 'or will you havea permanent place as court crows with what you can get in the kitchen?'And both crows bowed and asked for a permanent appointment, for theythought of their old age.And they put Gerda to bed, and she folded her hands, thinking, as shefell asleep, 'How good people and animals are to me!'The next day she was dressed from head to foot in silk and satin.They wanted her to stay on in the palace, but she begged for a littlecarriage and a horse, and a pair of shoes so that she might go out againinto the world to look for Kay.They gave her a muff as well as some shoes. she was warmly dressed, andwhen she was ready, there in front of the door stood a coach of puregold, with a coachman, footmen and postilions with gold crowns on.The prince and princess helped her into the carriage and wished her goodluck.The wild crow who was now married drove with her for the first threemiles. the other crow could not come because she had a bad headache.'Good bye, good bye!' called the prince and princess. and little Gerdacried, and the crow cried.When he said good bye, he flew on to a tree and waved with his blackwings as long as the carriage, which shone like the sun, was in sight.They came at last to a dark wood, but the coach lit it up like a torch.When the robbers saw it, they rushed out, exclaiming, 'Gold! gold!'They seized the horses, killed the coachman, footmen and postilions, anddragged Gerda out of the carriage.'She is plump and tender! I will eat her!' said the old robber queen,and she drew her long knife, which glittered horribly.'You shall not kill her!' cried her little daughter. 'She shall playwith me. She shall give me her muff and her beautiful dress, and sheshall sleep in my bed.'The little robber girl was as big as Gerda, but was stronger, broader,with dark hair and black eyes. She threw her arms round Gerda and said,'They shall not kill you, so long as you are not naughty. Aren't you aprincess?''No,' said Gerda, and she told all that had happened to her, and howdearly she loved little Kay.The robber girl looked at her very seriously, and nodded her head,saying, 'They shall not kill you, even if you are naughty, for then Iwill kill you myself!'And she dried Gerda's eyes, and stuck both her hands in the beautifulwarm muff.The little robber girl took Gerda to a corner of the robbers' camp whereshe slept.All round were more than a hundred wood pigeons which seemed to beasleep, but they moved a little when the two girls came up.There was also, near by, a reindeer which the robber girl teased bytickling it with her long sharp knife.Gerda lay awake for some time.'Coo, coo!' said the wood pigeons. 'We have seen little Kay. A whitebird carried his sledge. he was sitting in the Snow queen's carriagewhich drove over the forest when our little ones were in the nest. Shebreathed on them, and all except we two died. Coo, coo!''What are you saying over there?' cried Gerda. 'Where was the Snow queengoing to? Do you know at all?''She was probably travelling to Lapland, where there is always ice andsnow. Ask the reindeer.''There is capital ice and snow there!' said the reindeer. 'One can jumpabout there in the great sparkling valleys. There the Snow queen hasher summer palace, but her best palace is up by the North Pole, on theisland called Spitzbergen.''O Kay, my little Kay!' sobbed Gerda.'You must lie still,' said the little robber girl, 'or else I shallstick my knife into you!'In the morning Gerda told her all that the wood pigeons had said. Shenodded. 'Do you know where Lapland is?' she asked the reindeer.'Who should know better than I?' said the beast, and his eyes sparkled.'I was born and bred there on the snow fields.''Listen!' said the robber girl to Gerda. 'you see that all the robbershave gone. only my mother is left, and she will fall asleep in theafternoon then I will do something for you!'When her mother had fallen asleep, the robber girl went up to thereindeer and said, 'I am going to set you free so that you can runto Lapland. But you must go quickly and carry this little girl to theSnow queen's palace, where her playfellow is. You must have heard allthat she told about it, for she spoke loud enough!'The reindeer sprang high for joy. The robber girl lifted little Gerdaup, and had the foresight to tie her on firmly, and even gave her alittle pillow for a saddle. 'You must have your fur boots,' she said,'for it will be cold. but I shall keep your muff, for it is so cosy!But, so that you may not freeze, here are my mother's great fur gloves.they will come up to your elbows. Creep into them!'And Gerda cried for joy.'Don't make such faces!' said the little robber girl. 'You must lookvery happy. And here are two loaves and a sausage. now you won't behungry!'They were tied to the reindeer, the little robber girl opened the door,made all the big dogs come away, cut through the halter with her sharpknife, and said to the reindeer, 'Run now! But take great care of thelittle girl.'And Gerda stretched out her hands with the large fur gloves towards thelittle robber girl and said, 'Good bye!'Then the reindeer flew over the ground, through the great forest, asfast as he could.The wolves howled, the ravens screamed, the sky seemed on fire.'Those are my dear old northern lights,' said the reindeer. 'see howthey shine!'And then he ran faster still, day and night.The loaves were eaten, and the sausage also, and then they came toLapland.They stopped by a wretched little house. the roof almost touched theground, and the door was so low that you had to creep in and out.There was no one in the house except an old Lapland woman who wascooking fish over an oil lamp. The reindeer told Gerda's whole history,but first he told his own, for that seemed to him much more important,and Gerda was so cold that she could not speak.'Ah, you poor creatures!' said the Lapland woman. 'you have stillfurther to go! You must go over a hundred miles into Finland, for therethe Snow queen lives, and every night she burns Bengal lights. I willwrite some words on a dried stock fish, for I have no paper, and youmust give it to the Finland woman, for she can give you better advicethan I can.'And when Gerda was warmed and had had something to eat and drink, theLapland woman wrote on a dried stock fish, and begged Gerda to take careof it, tied Gerda securely on the reindeer's back, and away they wentagain.The whole night was ablaze with northern lights, and then they came toFinland and knocked at the Finland woman's chimney, for door she hadnone.Inside it was so hot that the Finland woman wore very few clothes. sheloosened Gerda's clothes and drew off her fur gloves and boots. She laida piece of ice on the reindeer's head, and then read what was written onthe stock fish. She read it over three times till she knew it by heart,and then put the fish in the saucepan, for she never wasted anything.Then the reindeer told his story, and afterwards little Gerda's and theFinland woman blinked her eyes but said nothing.'You are very clever,' said the reindeer. 'I know. Cannot you give thelittle girl a drink so that she may have the strength of twelve men andovercome the Snow queen?''The strength of twelve men!' said the Finland woman. 'that would nothelp much. Little Kay is with the Snow queen and he likes everythingthere very much and thinks it the best place in the world. But that isbecause he has a splinter of glass in his heart and a bit in his eye.If these do not come out, he will never be free, and the Snow queen willkeep her power over him.''But cannot you give little Gerda something so that she can have powerover her?''I can give her no greater power than she has already. don't you seehow great it is? Don't you see how men and beasts must help her when shewanders into the wide world with her bare feet? She is powerful already,because she is a dear little innocent child. If she cannot by herselfconquer the Snow queen and take away the glass splinters from littleKay, we cannot help her! The Snow queen's garden begins two miles fromhere. You can carry the little maiden so far. put her down by the largebush with red berries growing in the snow. Then you must come back hereas fast as you can.'Then the Finland woman lifted little Gerda on the reindeer and away hesped.'Oh, I have left my gloves and boots behind!' cried Gerda. She missedthem in the piercing cold, but the reindeer did not dare to stop. On heran till he came to the bush with red berries. Then he set Gerda downand kissed her mouth, and great big tears ran down his cheeks, and thenhe ran back. There stood poor Gerda, without shoes or gloves in themiddle of the bitter cold of Finland.She ran on as fast as she could. A regiment of gigantic snowflakes cameagainst her, but they melted when they touched her, and she went on withfresh courage.And now we must see what Kay was doing. He was not thinking of Gerda,and never dreamt that she was standing outside the palace.The walls of the palace were built of driven snow, and the doors andwindows of piercing winds. There were more than a hundred halls init all of frozen snow. The largest was several miles long. the brightNorthern lights lit them up, and very large and empty and cold andglittering they were! In the middle of the great hall was a frozen lakewhich had cracked in a thousand pieces. each piece was exactly like theother. Here the Snow queen used to sit when she was at home.Little Kay was almost blue and black with cold, but he did not feel it,for she had kissed away his feelings and his heart was a lump of ice.He was pulling about some sharp, flat pieces of ice, and trying to fitone into the other. He thought each was most beautiful, but that wasbecause of the splinter of glass in his eye. He fitted them into agreat many shapes, but he wanted to make them spell the word 'Love.' TheSnow queen had said, 'If you can spell out that word you shalt be yourown master. I will give you the whole world and a new pair of skates.'But he could not do it.'Now I must fly to warmer countries,' said the Snow queen. 'I must goand powder my black kettles!' (This was what she called Mount Etna andMount Vesuvius.) 'It does the lemons and grapes good.'And off she flew, and Kay sat alone in the great hall trying to do hispuzzle.He sat so still that you would have thought he was frozen.Then it happened that little Gerda stepped into the hall. The bitingcold winds became quiet as if they had fallen asleep when she appearedin the great, empty, freezing hall.She caught sight of Kay. she recognised him, and ran and put her armsround his neck, crying, 'Kay! dear little Kay! I have found you atlast!'But he sat quite still and cold. Then Gerda wept hot tears which fellon his neck and thawed his heart and swept away the bit of thelooking glass. He looked at her and then he burst into tears. He criedso much that the glass splinter swam out of his eye. then he knew her,and cried out, 'Gerda! dear little Gerda! Where have you been so long?and where have I been?'And he looked round him.'How cold it is here! How wide and empty!' and he threw himself onGerda, and she laughed and wept for joy. It was such a happy time thatthe pieces of ice even danced round them for joy, and when they weretired and lay down again they formed themselves into the letters thatthe Snow queen had said he must spell in order to become his own masterand have the whole world and a new pair of skates.And Gerda kissed his cheeks and they grew rosy. she kissed his eyes andthey sparkled like hers. she kissed his hands and feet and he becamewarm and glowing. The Snow queen might come home now. his release theword 'Love' stood written in sparkling ice.They took each other's hands and wandered out of the great palace. theytalked about the grandmother and the roses on the leads, wherever theycame the winds hushed and the sun came out. When they reached the bushwith red berries there stood the reindeer waiting for them.He carried Kay and Gerda first to the Finland woman, who warmed them inher hot room and gave them advice for their journey home.Then they went to the Lapland woman, who gave them new clothes andmended their sleigh. The reindeer ran with them until they came to thegreen fields fresh with the spring green. Here he said good bye.They came to the forest, which was bursting into bud, and out of it camea splendid horse which Gerda knew. it was the one which had drawn thegold coach ridden by a young girl with a red cap on and pistols in herbelt. It was the little robber girl who was tired of being at home andwanted to go out into the world. She and Gerda knew each other at once.'You are a nice fellow!' she said to Kay. 'I should like to know if youdeserve to be run all over the world!'But Gerda patted her cheeks and asked after the prince and princess.'They are travelling about,' said the robber girl.'And the crow?' asked Gerda.'Oh, the crow is dead!' answered the robber girl. 'His tame sweetheartis a widow and hops about with a bit of black crape round her leg. Shemakes a great fuss, but that's all nonsense. But tell me what happenedto you, and how you caught him.'And Kay and Gerda told her all.'Dear, dear!' said the robber girl, shook both their hands, and promisedthat if she came to their town she would come and see them. Then sherode on.But Gerda and Kay went home hand in hand. There they found thegrandmother and everything just as it had been, but when they wentthrough the doorway they found they were grown up.There were the roses on the leads. it was summer, warm, glorious summer.