In a nursery where a number of toys lay scattered about, amoney box stood on the top of a very high wardrobe. It was made ofclay in the shape of a pig, and had been bought of the potter. Inthe back of the pig was a slit, and this slit had been enlarged with aknife, so that dollars, or crown pieces, might slip through. and,indeed there were two in the box, besides a number of pence. Themoney pig was stuffed so full that it could no longer rattle, which isthe highest state of perfection to which a money pig can attain. Therehe stood upon the cupboard, high and lofty, looking down uponeverything else in the room. He knew very well that he had enoughinside him to buy up all the other toys, and this gave him a very goodopinion of his own value. The rest thought of this fact also, althoughthey did not express it, for there were so many other things to talkabout. A large doll, still handsome, though rather old, for her neckhad been mended, lay inside one of the drawers which was partlyopen. She called out to the others, "Let us have a game at being menand women, that is something worth playing at."Upon this there was a great uproar. even the engravings, whichhung in frames on the wall, turned round in their excitement, andshowed that they had a wrong side to them, although they had not theleast intention to expose themselves in this way, or to object tothe game. It was late at night, but as the moon shone through thewindows, they had light at a cheap rate. And as the game was now tobegin, all were invited to take part in it, even the children's wagon,which certainly belonged to the coarser playthings. "Each has itsown value," said the wagon. "we cannot all be noblemen. there mustbe some to do the work."The money pig was the only one who received a writteninvitation. He stood so high that they were afraid he would not accepta verbal message. But in his reply, he said, if he had to take a part,he must enjoy the sport from his own home. they were to arrange forhim to do so. and so they did. The little toy theatre was thereforeput up in such a way that the money pig could look directly into it.Some wanted to begin with a comedy, and afterwards to have a tea partyand a discussion for mental improvement, but they commenced with thelatter first. The rocking horse spoke of training and races. the wagonof railways and steam power, for these subjects belonged to each oftheir professions, and it was right they should talk of them. Theclock talked politics "tick, tick." he professed to know what was thetime of day, but there was a whisper that he did not go correctly. Thebamboo cane stood by, looking stiff and proud: he was vain of hisbrass ferrule and silver top, and on the sofa lay two worked cushions,pretty but stupid. When the play at the little theatre began, the restsat and looked on. they were requested to applaud and stamp, or crack,when they felt gratified with what they saw. But the riding whipsaid he never cracked for old people, only for the young who werenot yet married. "I crack for everybody," said the cracker."Yes, and a fine noise you make," thought the audience, as theplay went on.It was not worth much, but it was very well played, and all thecharacters turned their painted sides to the audience, for they weremade only to be seen on one side. The acting was wonderful,excepting that sometimes they came out beyond the lamps, because thewires were a little too long. The doll, whose neck had been darned,was so excited that the place in her neck burst, and the money pigdeclared he must do something for one of the players, as they hadall pleased him so much. So he made up his mind to remember one ofthem in his will, as the one to be buried with him in the familyvault, whenever that event should happen. They all enjoyed thecomedy so much, that they gave up all thoughts of the tea party, andonly carried out their idea of intellectual amusement, which theycalled playing at men and women. and there was nothing wrong about it,for it was only play. All the while, each one thought most of himself,or of what the money pig could be thinking. His thoughts were on, ashe supposed, a very distant time of making his will, and of hisburial, and of when it might all come to pass. Certainly sooner thanhe expected for all at once down he came from the top of the press,fell on the ground, and was broken to pieces. Then the pennieshopped and danced about in the most amusing manner. The little onestwirled round like tops, and the large ones rolled away as far as theycould, especially the one great silver crown piece who had often to goout into the world, and now he had his wish as well as all the rest ofthe money. The pieces of the money pig were thrown into thedust bin, and the next day there stood a new money pig on thecupboard, but it had not a farthing in its inside yet, andtherefore, like the old one, it could not rattle. This was thebeginning with him, and we will make it the end of our story.