merely cast their eyes at him, while others noticed him not: but whilehe was in this state, deprived of his whole property, and weepingwithout intermission, a female approached him, on her way to attend theFriday prayers: she was of admirable loveliness. the odour of musk wasdiffused from her. under her was a mule with a stuffed saddle coveredwith gold embroidered silk. and with her was a number of servants. andwhen she saw the broken glass, and my brother's state and his tears, shewas moved with pity for him, and asked respecting his case. She wasanswered, He had a tray of glass, by the sale of which to obtain hissubsistence and it is broken, and he is afflicted as thou seest: andupon this, she called to one of the servants, saying, Give what thouhast with thee to this poor man. So he gave him a purse, and he took it,and when he had opened it, he found in it five hundred pieces of gold,whereupon he almost died from excessive joy, and offered up prayers forhis benefactress.He returned to his house a rich man, and sat reflecting, and lo, aperson knocked at the door: he rose, therefore, and opened it. andbeheld an old woman whom he knew not, and she said to him, O my son,know that the time of prayer hath almost expired, and I am not preparedby ablution. wherefore I beg that thou wilt admit me into thy house,that I may perform it. He replied, I hear and obey. and, retiringwithin, gave her permission to enter. his mind still wandering from joyon account of the gold. and when she had finished the ablution, sheapproached the spot where he was sitting, and there performed theprayers of two rek'ahs. She then offered up a supplication for mybrother. and he thanked her, and offered her two pieces of gold. butwhen she saw this, she exclaimed, Extolled be God's perfection! Verily Iwonder at the person who fell in love with thee in thy beggarlycondition! Take back thy money from me, and if thou want it not, returnit to her who gave it thee when thy glass broke. O my mother, said he,how can I contrive to obtain access to her? She answered, O my son, shehath an affection for thee. but she is the wife of an affluent man. takethen with thee all thy money, and when thou art with her be notdeficient in courteousness and agreeable words. so shalt thou obtain ofher favours and her wealth whatever thou shalt desire. My brother,therefore, took all the gold, and arose and went with the old woman,hardly believing what she had told him. and she proceeded, and mybrother behind her, until they arrived at a great door, at which sheknocked. whereupon a Greek damsel came and opened the door, and the oldwoman entered, ordering my brother to do the same. He did so, and foundhimself in a large house, where he beheld a great furnished chamber,with curtains hung in it. and, seating himself there, he put down thegold before him, and placed his turban on his knees. andscarcely had he done so, when there came to him a damsel, the like ofwhom had never been seen, attired in most magnificent apparel. Mybrother stood up at her approach. and when she beheld him, she laughedin his face, and rejoiced at his visit: then going to the door, shelocked it. after which she returned to my brother, and took his hand,and both of them went together into a private chamber, carpeted withvarious kinds of silk, where my brother sat down, and she seated herselfby his side, and toyed with him for a considerable time. She then rose,saying to him, Move not from this place until I return to thee. and wasabsent from him for a short period. and as my brother was waiting forher, there came in to him a black slave, of gigantic stature, with adrawn sword, the brightness of which dazzled the sight. and he exclaimedto my brother. Wo to thee! Who brought thee to this place? Thou vilestof men! Thou misbegotten wretch, and nursling of impurity! My brotherwas unable to make any reply. his tongue was instantly tied. and theslave laid hold upon him, and stripped him, and struck him more thaneighty blows with the flat of his sword, until he fell sprawling uponthe floor. when he retired from him, concluding that he was dead, anduttered a great cry, so that the earth trembled, and the place resoundedat his voice, saying, Where is El Meleeah? upon which agirl came to him, holding a handsome tray containing salt. and with thisshe forthwith stuffed the flesh wounds with which my brother's skin wasgashed until they gaped open. but he moved not, fearing the slave woulddiscover that he was alive, and kill him. The girl then went away, andthe slave uttered another cry, like the first, whereupon the old womancame to my brother, and, dragging him by the feet to a deep and darkvault, threw him into it upon a heap of slain. In this placehe remained for two whole days. and God (whose perfection be extolled!)made the salt to be the means of preserving his life, by stanching theflow of blood from his veins. so, when he found that he had strengthsufficient to move, he arose, and, opening a shutter in the wall,emerged from the place of the slain. and God (to whom be ascribed allmight and glory!) granted him his protection. He therefore proceeded inthe darkness, and concealed himself in the passage until the morning,when the old woman went forth to seek another victim, and my brother,going out after her, without her knowledge, returned to his house.He now occupied himself with the treatment of his wounds until he wasrestored. and continued to watch for the old woman, and constantly sawher taking men, one after another, and conducting them to the samehouse. But he uttered not a word on the subject. and when his healthreturned, and his strength was completely renewed, he took a piece ofrag, and made of it a purse, which he filled with pieces of glass: hethen tied it to his waist, and disguised himself so that no one wouldknow him, in the dress of a foreigner. and, taking a sword, placed itwithin his clothes. and as soon as he saw the old woman, he said to her,in the dialect of a foreigner, Old woman, hast thou a pair of scales fitfor weighing nine hundred pieces of gold? The old woman answered, I havea young son, a money changer, and he hath all kinds of scales. thereforeaccompany me to him before he go forth from his abode, that he may weighfor thee thy gold. So my brother said, Walk on before me: and she went,and my brother followed her until she arrived at the door, and knocked.upon which the girl came out, and laughed in his face. and the old womansaid to her, I have brought you to day some fat meat. The girl then tookmy brother's hand, and conducted him into the house (the same which hehad entered before), and after she had sat with him a short time, sherose, saying to him, Quit not this place until I return to thee: andshe retired. and my brother had remained not long after when the slavecame to him with the drawn sword, and said to him, Rise, thou unlucky!So my brother rose, and, as the slave walked before him, he put his handto the sword which was concealed beneath his clothes, and struck theslave with it, and cut off his head. after which he dragged him by hisfeet to the vault, and called out, Where is El Meleeah? The slave girl,therefore, came, having in her hand the tray containing the salt. butwhen she saw my brother with the sword in his hand, she turned back andfled: my brother, however, overtook her, and struck off her head. Hethen called out, Where is the old woman? and she came. and he said toher, Dost thou know me, O malevolent hag? She answered, No, O mylord. I am, said he, the man who had the pieces of gold, and in whosehouse thou performedst the ablution and prayedst. after which, devisinga stratagem against me, thou betrayedst me into this place. The oldwoman exclaimed, Fear God in thy treatment of me! but my brother,turning towards her, struck her with the sword, and clove her in twain.He then went to search for the chief damsel, and when she saw him, herreason fled, and she implored his pardon. whereupon he granted her hispardon, and said to her, What occasioned thy falling into the hands ofthis black? She answered, I was a slave to one of the merchants, andthis old woman used to visit me. and one day she said to me, We arecelebrating a festivity, the like of which no one hath seen, and I havea desire that thou shouldst witness it. I replied, I hear and obey: andarose, and clad myself in the best of my attire, and, taking with me apurse containing a hundred pieces of gold, proceeded with heruntil she entered this house, when suddenly this black took me, and Ihave continued with him in this state three years, through the stratagemof the old witch. My brother then said to her, Is there any property ofhis in the house? Abundance, she answered. and if thou canst remove it,do so: and upon this, he arose and went with her, when she opened tohim chests filled with purses, at the sight of which he was confounded.and she said to him, Go now, and leave me here, and bring some person toremove the property. So he went out, and, having hired ten men,returned. but on his arrival at the door, he found it open, and sawneither the damsel nor the purses. he found, however, some little moneyremaining, and the stuffs. He discovered, therefore, that she hadeluded him. and he took the money that remained, and, opening theclosets, took all the stuffs which they contained, leaving nothing inthe house.He passed the next night full of happiness. but when the morning came,he found at the door twenty soldiers, and on his going forth to them,they laid hold upon him, saying, The Walee summoneth thee. So they tookhim, and conducted him to the Walee, who, when he saw him, said to him,Whence obtainedst thou these stuffs? Grant me indemnity, said mybrother: and the Walee gave him the handkerchief of indemnity.and my brother related to him all that had befallen him with the oldwoman from first to last, and the flight of the damsel. adding, and ofthat which I have taken, take thou what thou wilt. but leave mewherewith to procure my food. The Walee thereupon demanded the whole ofthe money and the stuffs. but fearing that the Sulan might becomeacquainted with the matter, he retained a portion only, and gave therest to my brother, saying to him, Quit this city, or I will hang thee.My brother replied, I hear and obey: and went forth to one of thesurrounding cities. Some robbers, however, came upon him, and strippedand beat him, and cut off his ears. and I, having heard of hissituation, went forth to him, taking to him some clothes. and broughthim back privily into the city, and supplied him with daily food anddrink.