There were once five and twenty tin soldiers, who were allbrothers, for they had been made out of the same old tin spoon. Theyshouldered arms and looked straight before them, and wore a splendiduniform, red and blue. The first thing in the world they ever heardwere the words, "Tin soldiers!" uttered by a little boy, who clappedhis hands with delight when the lid of the box, in which they lay, wastaken off. They were given him for a birthday present, and he stood atthe table to set them up. The soldiers were all exactly alike,excepting one, who had only one leg. he had been left to the last, andthen there was not enough of the melted tin to finish him, so theymade him to stand firmly on one leg, and this caused him to be veryremarkable.The table on which the tin soldiers stood, was covered withother playthings, but the most attractive to the eye was a prettylittle paper castle. Through the small windows the rooms could beseen. In front of the castle a number of little trees surrounded apiece of looking glass, which was intended to represent atransparent lake. Swans, made of wax, swam on the lake, and werereflected in it. All this was very pretty, but the prettiest of allwas a tiny little lady, who stood at the open door of the castle. she,also, was made of paper, and she wore a dress of clear muslin, witha narrow blue ribbon over her shoulders just like a scarf. In front ofthese was fixed a glittering tinsel rose, as large as her wholeface. The little lady was a dancer, and she stretched out both herarms, and raised one of her legs so high, that the tin soldier couldnot see it at all, and he thought that she, like himself, had only oneleg. "That is the wife for me," he thought. "but she is too grand, andlives in a castle, while I have only a box to live in, five and twentyof us altogether, that is no place for her. Still I must try andmake her acquaintance." Then he laid himself at full length on thetable behind a snuff box that stood upon it, so that he could peepat the little delicate lady, who continued to stand on one leg withoutlosing her balance. When evening came, the other tin soldiers were allplaced in the box, and the people of the house went to bed. Then theplaythings began to have their own games together, to pay visits, tohave sham fights, and to give balls. The tin soldiers rattled in theirbox. they wanted to get out and join the amusements, but they couldnot open the lid. The nut crackers played at leap frog, and the penciljumped about the table. There was such a noise that the canary woke upand began to talk, and in poetry too. Only the tin soldier and thedancer remained in their places. She stood on tiptoe, with her legsstretched out, as firmly as he did on his one leg. He never took hiseyes from her for even a moment. The clock struck twelve, and, witha bounce, up sprang the lid of the snuff box. but, instead of snuff,there jumped up a little black goblin. for the snuff box was a toypuzzle."Tin soldier," said the goblin, "don't wish for what does notbelong to you."But the tin soldier pretended not to hear."Very well. wait till to morrow, then," said the goblin.When the children came in the next morning, they placed the tinsoldier in the window. Now, whether it was the goblin who did it, orthe draught, is not known, but the window flew open, and out fellthe tin soldier, heels over head, from the third story, into thestreet beneath. It was a terrible fall. for he came head downwards,his helmet and his bayonet stuck in between the flagstones, and hisone leg up in the air. The servant maid and the little boy went downstairs directly to look for him. but he was nowhere to be seen,although once they nearly trod upon him. If he had called out, "Here Iam," it would have been all right, but he was too proud to cry out forhelp while he wore a uniform.Presently it began to rain, and the drops fell faster andfaster, till there was a heavy shower. When it was over, two boyshappened to pass by, and one of them said, "Look, there is a tinsoldier. He ought to have a boat to sail in."So they made a boat out of a newspaper, and placed the tin soldierin it, and sent him sailing down the gutter, while the two boys ran bythe side of it, and clapped their hands. Good gracious, what largewaves arose in that gutter! and how fast the stream rolled on! for therain had been very heavy. The paper boat rocked up and down, andturned itself round sometimes so quickly that the tin soldiertrembled. yet he remained firm. his countenance did not change. helooked straight before him, and shouldered his musket. Suddenly theboat shot under a bridge which formed a part of a drain, and then itwas as dark as the tin soldier's box."Where am I going now?" thought he. "This is the black goblin'sfault, I am sure. Ah, well, if the little lady were only here withme in the boat, I should not care for any darkness."Suddenly there appeared a great water rat, who lived in the drain."Have you a passport?" asked the rat, "give it to me at once." Butthe tin soldier remained silent and held his musket tighter than ever.The boat sailed on and the rat followed it. How he did gnash his teethand cry out to the bits of wood and straw, "Stop him, stop him. he hasnot paid toll, and has not shown his pass." But the stream rushed onstronger and stronger. The tin soldier could already see daylightshining where the arch ended. Then he heard a roaring sound quiteterrible enough to frighten the bravest man. At the end of thetunnel the drain fell into a large canal over a steep place, whichmade it as dangerous for him as a waterfall would be to us. He was tooclose to it to stop, so the boat rushed on, and the poor tin soldiercould only hold himself as stiffly as possible, without moving aneyelid, to show that he was not afraid. The boat whirled round threeor four times, and then filled with water to the very edge. nothingcould save it from sinking. He now stood up to his neck in water,while deeper and deeper sank the boat, and the paper became soft andloose with the wet, till at last the water closed over the soldier'shead. He thought of the elegant little dancer whom he should never seeagain, and the words of the song sounded in his ears "Farewell, warrior! ever brave,Drifting onward to thy grave."Then the paper boat fell to pieces, and the soldier sank intothe water and immediately afterwards was swallowed up by a great fish.Oh how dark it was inside the fish! A great deal darker than in thetunnel, and narrower too, but the tin soldier continued firm, andlay at full length shouldering his musket. The fish swam to and fro,making the most wonderful movements, but at last he became quitestill. After a while, a flash of lightning seemed to pass through him,and then the daylight approached, and a voice cried out, "I declarehere is the tin soldier." The fish had been caught, taken to themarket and sold to the cook, who took him into the kitchen and cut himopen with a large knife. She picked up the soldier and held him by thewaist between her finger and thumb, and carried him into the room.They were all anxious to see this wonderful soldier who hadtravelled about inside a fish. but he was not at all proud. Theyplaced him on the table, and how many curious things do happen in theworld! there he was in the very same room from the window of which hehad fallen, there were the same children, the same playthings,standing on the table, and the pretty castle with the elegant littledancer at the door. she still balanced herself on one leg, and held upthe other, so she was as firm as himself. It touched the tin soldierso much to see her that he almost wept tin tears, but he kept themback. He only looked at her and they both remained silent. Presentlyone of the little boys took up the tin soldier, and threw him into thestove. He had no reason for doing so, therefore it must have beenthe fault of the black goblin who lived in the snuff box. The flameslighted up the tin soldier, as he stood, the heat was very terrible,but whether it proceeded from the real fire or from the fire of lovehe could not tell. Then he could see that the bright colors were fadedfrom his uniform, but whether they had been washed off during hisjourney or from the effects of his sorrow, no one could say. He lookedat the little lady, and she looked at him. He felt himself meltingaway, but he still remained firm with his gun on his shoulder.Suddenly the door of the room flew open and the draught of aircaught up the little dancer, she fluttered like a sylph right into thestove by the side of the tin soldier, and was instantly in flamesand was gone. The tin soldier melted down into a lump, and the nextmorning, when the maid servant took the ashes out of the stove, shefound him in the shape of a little tin heart. But of the little dancernothing remained but the tinsel rose, which was burnt black as acinder.