In old times in Ireland there was a great man of the Fitzgeralds. Thename on him was Gerald, but the Irish, that always had a great liking forthe family, called him Gearoidh Iarla (Earl Gerald).He had a great castle or rath at Mullaghmast, and whenever the Englishgovernment were striving to put some wrong on the country, he was alwaysthe man that stood up for it. Along with being a great leader in a fight,and very skilful at all weapons, he was deep in the black art, and couldchange himself into whatever shape he pleased. His lady knew that he hadthis power, and often asked him to let her into some of his secrets, buthe never would gratify her.She wanted particularly to see him in some strange shape, but he puther off and off on one pretence or other. But she wouldn't be a woman ifshe hadn't perseverance. and so at last he let her know that if she tookthe least fright while he'd be out of his natural form, he would neverrecover it till many generations of men would be under the mould.Oh! she wouldn't be a fit wife for Gearoidh Iarla if she could beeasily frightened. Let him but gratify her in this whim, and he'd see whata hero she was!So one beautiful summer evening, as they were sitting in their granddrawing room, he turned his face away from her, and muttered some words,and while you'd wink he was clever and clean out of sight, and a lovelygoldfinch was flying about the room.The lady, as courageous as she thought herself, was a little startled,but she held her own pretty well, especially when he came and perched onher shoulder, and shook his wings, and put his little beak to her lips,and whistled the delightfullest tune you ever heard. Well, he flew incircles round the room, and played hide and go seek with his lady, andflew out into the garden, and flew back again, and lay down in her lap asif he was asleep, and jumped up again.Well, when the thing had lasted long enough to satisfy both, he tookone flight more into the open air. but by my work he was soon on hisreturn. He flew right into his lady's bosom, and the next moment a fiercehawk was after him. The wife gave one loud scream, though there was noneed, for the wild bird came in like an arrow, and stuck against a tablewith such force that the life was dashed out of him. She turned her eyesfrom his quivering body to where she saw the goldfinch an instant before,but neither goldfinch nor Earl Garrett did she ever lay eyes on again.Once every seven years the Earl rides round the Curragh of Kildare on asteed, whose silver shoes were half an inch thick the time he disappeared.and when these shoes are worn as thin as a cat's ear, he will be restoredto the society of living men, fight a great battle with the English, andreign King of Ireland for two score years.Himself and his warriors are now sleeping in a long cavern under theRath of Mullaghmast. There is a table running along through the middle ofthe cave. The Earl is sitting at the head, and his troopers down along incomplete armor both sides of the table, and their heads resting on it.Their horses, saddled and bridled, are standing behind their masters intheir stalls at each side. And when the day comes, the miller's son that'sto be born with six fingers on each hand will blow his trumpet, and thehorses will stamp and whinny, and the knights awake and mount theirsteeds, and go forth to battle.Some night that happens once in every seven years, while the Earl isriding round the Curragh, the entrance may be seen by anyone chancing topass by. About a hundred years ago, a horse dealer that was late abroadand a little drunk, saw the lighted cavern, and went in. The lights, andthe stillness, and the sight of the men in armor cowed him a good deal,and he became sober. His hands began to tremble, and he let fall a bridleon the pavement. The sound of the bit echoed through the long cave, andone of the warriors that was next him lifted his head a little, and saidin a deep hoarse voice, "Is it time yet?"He had the wit to say, "Not yet, but soon will," and the heavy helmetsunk down on the table. The horse dealer made the best of his way out, andI never heard of any other one getting the same opportunity.