Once upon a time a little boy was born to a king who ruled over a greatcountry through which ran a wide river. The king was nearly besidehimself with joy, for he had always longed for a son to inherit hiscrown, and he sent messages to beg all the most powerful fairies to comeand see this wonderful baby. In an hour or two, so many were gatheredround the cradle, that the child seemed in danger of being smothered.but the king, who was watching the fairies eagerly, was disturbed to seethem looking grave. 'Is there anything the matter?' he asked anxiously.The fairies looked at him, and all shook their heads at once.'He is a beautiful boy, and it is a great pity. but what IS to happenWILL happen,' said they. 'It is written in the books of fate that hemust die, either by a crocodile, or a serpent, or by a dog. If we couldsave him we would. but that is beyond our power.'And so saying they vanished.For a time the king stood where he was, horror stricken at what he hadheard. but, being of a hopeful nature, he began at once to invent plansto save the prince from the dreadful doom that awaited him. He instantlysent for his master builder, and bade him construct a strong castle onthe top of a mountain, which should be fitted with the most preciousthings from the king's own palace, and every kind of toy a child couldwish to play with. And, besides, he gave the strictest orders that aguard should walk round the castle night and day.For four or five years the baby lived in the castle alone with hisnurses, taking his airings on the broad terraces, which were surroundedby walls, with a moat beneath them, and only a drawbridge to connectthem with the outer world.One day, when the prince was old enough to run quite fast by himself,he looked from the terrace across the moat, and saw a little soft fluffyball of a dog jumping and playing on the other side. Now, of course, alldogs had been kept from him for fear that the fairies' prophecy shouldcome true, and he had never even beheld one before. So he turned to thepage who was walking behind him, and said:'What is that funny little thing which is running so fast over there?''That is a dog, prince,' answered the page.'Well, bring me one like it, and we will see which can run the faster.'And he watched the dog till it had disappeared round the corner.The page was much puzzled to know what to do. He had strict orders torefuse the prince nothing. yet he remembered the prophecy, and felt thatthis was a serious matter. At last he thought he had better tell theking the whole story, and let him decide the question.'Oh, get him a dog if he wants one,' said the king, 'he will only cryhis heart out if he does not have it.' So a puppy was found, exactlylike the other. they might have been twins, and perhaps they were.Years went by, and the boy and the dog played together till the boy grewtall and strong. The time came at last when he sent a message to hisfather, saying:'Why do you keep me shut up here, doing nothing? I know all about theprophecy that was made at my birth, but I would far rather be killed atonce than live an idle, useless life here. So give me arms, and let mego, I pray you. me and my dog too.'And again the king listened to his wishes, and he and his dog werecarried in a ship to the other side of the river, which was so broadhere it might almost have been the sea. A black horse was waiting forhim, tied to a tree, and he mounted and rode away wherever his fancytook him, the dog always at his heels. Never was any prince so happy ashe, and he rode and rode till at length he came to a king's palace.The king who lived in it did not care about looking after his country,and seeing that his people lived cheerful and contented lives. He spenthis whole time in making riddles, and inventing plans which he had muchbetter have let alone. At the period when the young prince reached thekingdom he had just completed a wonderful house for his only child, adaughter. It had seventy windows, each seventy feet from the ground,and he had sent the royal herald round the borders of the neighbouringkingdoms to proclaim that whoever could climb up the walls to the windowof the princess should win her for his wife.The fame of the princess's beauty had spread far and wide, and therewas no lack of princes who wished to try their fortune. Very funny thepalace must have looked each morning, with the dabs of different colouron the white marble as the princes were climbing up the walls. Butthough some managed to get further than others, nobody was anywhere nearthe top.They had already been spending several days in this manner when theyoung prince arrived, and as he was pleasant to look upon, and civil totalk to, they welcomed him to the house, which had been given to them,and saw that his bath was properly perfumed after his long journey.'Where do you come from?' they said at last. 'And whose son are you?'But the young prince had reasons for keeping his own secret, and heanswered:'My father was master of the horse to the king of my country, and aftermy mother died he married another wife. At first all went well, but assoon as she had babies of her own she hated me, and I fled, lest sheshould do me harm.'The hearts of the other young men were touched as soon as they heardthis story, and they did everything they could think of to make himforget his past sorrows.'What are you doing here?' said the youth, one day.'We spend our whole time climbing up the walls of the palace, tryingto reach the windows of the princess,' answered the young men. 'but, asyet, no one has reached within ten feet of them.''Oh, let me try too,' cried the prince. 'but to morrow I will wait andsee what you do before I begin.So the next day he stood where he could watch the young men go up, andhe noted the places on the wall that seemed most difficult, and made uphis mind that when his turn came he would go up some other way.Day after day he was to be seen watching the wooers, till, one morning,he felt that he knew the plan of the walls by heart, and took hisplace by the side of the others. Thanks to what he had learned from thefailure of the rest, he managed to grasp one little rough projectionafter another, till at last, to the envy of his friends, he stood on thesill of the princess's window. Looking up from below, they saw a whitehand stretched forth to draw him in.Then one of the young men ran straight to the king's palace, and said:'The wall has been climbed, and the prize is won!''By whom?' cried the king, starting up from his throne. 'which of theprinces may I claim as my son in law?''The youth who succeeded in climbing to the princess's window is not aprince at all,' answered the young man. 'He is the son of the masterof the horse to the great king who dwells across the river, and he fledfrom his own country to escape from the hatred of his stepmother.'At this news the king was very angry, for it had never entered his headthat anyone BUT a prince would seek to woo his daughter.'Let him go back to the land whence he came,' he shouted in wrath. 'doeshe expect me to give my daughter to an exile?' And he began to smash thedrinking vessels in his fury. indeed, he quite frightened the young man,who ran hastily home to his friends, and told the youth what the kinghad said.Now the princess, who was leaning from her window, heard his words andbade the messenger go back to the king her father and tell him that shehad sworn a vow never to eat or drink again if the youth was taken fromher. The king was more angry than ever when he received this message,and ordered his guards to go at once to the palace and put thesuccessful wooer to death. but the princess threw herself between himand his murderers.'Lay a finger on him, and I shall be dead before sunset,' said she. andas they saw that she meant it, they left the palace, and carried thetale to her father.By this time the king's anger was dying away, and he began to considerwhat his people would think of him if he broke the promise he hadpublicly given. So he ordered the princess to be brought before him,and the young man also, and when they entered the throne room he wasso pleased with the noble air of the victor that his wrath quite meltedaway, and he ran to him and embraced him.'Tell me who you are?' he asked, when he had recovered himself a little,'for I will never believe that you have not royal blood in your veins.'But the prince still had his reasons for being silent, and only told thesame story. However, the king had taken such a fancy to the youth thathe said no more, and the marriage took place the following day, andgreat herds of cattle and a large estate were given to the young couple.After a little while the prince said to his wife: 'My life is in thehands of three creatures a crocodile, a serpent, and a dog.''Ah, how rash you are!' cried the princess, throwing her arms round hisneck. 'If you know that, how can you have that horrid beast about you? Iwill give orders to have him killed at once.'But the prince would not listen to her.'Kill my dear little dog, who had been my playfellow since he was apuppy?' exclaimed he. 'Oh, never would I allow that.' And all that theprincess could get from him was that he would always wear a sword, andhave somebody with him when he left the palace.When the prince and princess had been married a few months, the princeheard that his stepmother was dead, and his father was old and ill, andlonging to have his eldest son by his side again. The young man couldnot remain deaf to such a message, and he took a tender farewell of hiswife, and set out on his journey home. It was a long way, and he wasforced to rest often on the road, and so it happened that, one night,when he was sleeping in a city on the banks of the great river, a hugecrocodile came silently up and made its way along a passage to theprince's room. Fortunately one of his guards woke up as it was tryingto steal past them, and shut the crocodile up in a large hall, where agiant watched over it, never leaving the spot except during the night,when the crocodile slept. And this went on for more than a month.Now, when the prince found that he was not likely to leave his father'skingdom again, he sent for his wife, and bade the messenger tell herthat he would await her coming in the town on the banks of the greatriver. This was the reason why he delayed his journey so long, andnarrowly escaped being eaten by the crocodile. During the weeks thatfollowed the prince amused himself as best he could, though he countedthe minutes to the arrival of the princess, and when she did come, he atonce prepared to start for the court. That very night, however, while hewas asleep, the princess noticed something strange in one of the cornersof the room. It was a dark patch, and seemed, as she looked, to growlonger and longer, and to be moving slowly towards the cushions onwhich the prince was lying. She shrank in terror, but, slight as was thenoise, the thing heard it, and raised its head to listen. Then she sawit was the long flat head of a serpent, and the recollection of theprophecy rushed into her mind. Without waking her husband, she glidedout of bed, and taking up a heavy bowl of milk which stood on a table,laid it on the floor in the path of the serpent for she knew that noserpent in the world can resist milk. She held her breath as the snakedrew near, and watched it throw up its head again as if it was smellingsomething nice, while its forky tongue darted out greedily. At lengthits eyes fell upon the milk, and in an instant it was lapping it so fastthat it was a wonder the creature did not choke, for it never tookits head from the bowl as long as a drop was left in it. After that itdropped on the ground and slept heavily. This was what the princess hadbeen waiting for, and catching up her husband's sword, she severed thesnake's head from its body.The morning after this adventure the prince and princess set out for theking's palace, but found when they reached it, that he was already dead.They gave him a magnificent burial, and then the prince had to examinethe new laws which had been made in his absence, and do a great deal ofbusiness besides, till he grew quite ill from fatigue, and was obligedto go away to one of his palaces on the banks of the river, in order torest. Here he soon got better, and began to hunt, and to shoot wild duckwith his bow. and wherever he went, his dog, now grown very old, wentwith him.One morning the prince and his dog were out as usual, and in chasingtheir game they drew near the bank of the river. The prince was runningat full speed after his dog when he almost fell over something thatlooked like a log of wood, which was lying in his path. To his surprisea voice spoke to him, and he saw that the thing which he had taken for abranch was really a crocodile.'You cannot escape from me,' it was saying, when he had gathered hissenses again. 'I am your fate, and wherever you go, and whatever you do,you will always find me before you. There is only one means of shakingoff my power. If you can dig a pit in the dry sand which will remainfull of water, my spell will be broken. If not death will come to youspeedily. I give you this one chance. Now go.'The young man walked sadly away, and when he reached the palace heshut himself into his room, and for the rest of the day refused to seeanyone, not even his wife. At sunset, however, as no sound could beheard through the door, the princess grew quite frightened, and madesuch a noise that the prince was forced to draw back the bolt and lether come in. 'How pale you look,' she cried, 'has anything hurt you?Tell me, I pray you, what is the matter, for perhaps I can help!'So the prince told her the whole story, and of the impossible task givenhim by the crocodile.'How can a sand hole remain full of water?' asked he. 'Of course, itwill all run through. The crocodile called it a "chance". but he mightas well have dragged me into the river at once. He said truly that Icannot escape him.''Oh, if that is all,' cried the princess, 'I can set you free myself,for my fairy godmother taught me to know the use of plants and in thedesert not far from here there grows a little four leaved herb whichwill keep the water in the pit for a whole year. I will go in search ofit at dawn, and you can begin to dig the hole as soon as you like.To comfort her husband, the princess had spoken lightly and gaily. butshe knew very well she had no light task before her. Still, she wasfull of courage and energy, and determined that, one way or another, herhusband should be saved.It was still starlight when she left the palace on a snow white donkey,and rode away from the river straight to the west. For some time shecould see nothing before her but a flat waste of sand, which becamehotter and hotter as the sun rose higher and higher. Then a dreadfulthirst seized her and the donkey, but there was no stream to quench it,and if there had been she would hardly have had time to stop, forshe still had far to go, and must be back before evening, or elsethe crocodile might declare that the prince had not fulfilled hisconditions. So she spoke cheering words to her donkey, who brayed inreply, and the two pushed steadily on.Oh! how glad they both were when they caught sight of a tall rock in thedistance. They forgot that they were thirsty, and that the sun was hot.and the ground seemed to fly under their feet, till the donkey stoppedof its own accord in the cool shadow. But though the donkey might restthe princess could not, for the plant, as she knew, grew on the very topof the rock, and a wide chasm ran round the foot of it. Luckily she hadbrought a rope with her, and making a noose at one end, she flung itacross with all her might. The first time it slid back slowly into theditch, and she had to draw it up, and throw it again, but at length thenoose caught on something, the princess could not see what, and had totrust her whole weight to this little bridge, which might snap and lether fall deep down among the rocks. And in that case her death was ascertain as that of the prince.But nothing so dreadful happened. The princess got safely to the otherside, and then became the worst part of her task. As fast as she puther foot on a ledge of the rock the stone broke away from under her, andleft her in the same place as before. Meanwhile the hours were passing,and it was nearly noon.The heart of the poor princess was filled with despair, but she wouldnot give up the struggle. She looked round till she saw a small stoneabove her which seemed rather stronger than the rest, and by onlypoising her foot lightly on those that lay between, she managed by agreat effort to reach it. In this way, with torn and bleeding hands, shegained the top. but here such a violent wind was blowing that shewas almost blinded with dust, and was obliged to throw herself on theground, and feel about after the precious herb.For a few terrible moments she thought that the rock was bare, and thather journey had been to no purpose. Feel where she would, there wasnothing but grit and stones, when, suddenly, her fingers touchedsomething soft in a crevice. It was a plant, that was clear. but was itthe right one? See she could not, for the wind was blowing more fiercelythan ever, so she lay where she was and counted the leaves. One, two,three yes! yes! there were four! And plucking a leaf she held it safein her hand while she turned, almost stunned by the wind, to go down therock.When once she was safely over the side all became still in a moment, andshe slid down the rock so fast that it was only a wonder that she didnot land in the chasm. However, by good luck, she stopped quite closeto her rope bridge and was soon across it. The donkey brayed joyfully atthe sight of her, and set off home at his best speed, never seeming toknow that the earth under his feet was nearly as hot as the sun abovehim.On the bank of the great river he halted, and the princess rushed up towhere the prince was standing by the pit he had digged in the dry sand,with a huge water pot beside it. A little way off the crocodile layblinking in the sun, with his sharp teeth and whity yellow jaws wideopen.At a signal from the princess the prince poured the water in the hole,and the moment it reached the brim the princess flung in the four leavedplant. Would the charm work, or would the water trickle away slowlythrough the sand, and the prince fall a victim to that horrible monster?For half an hour they stood with their eyes rooted to the spot, but thehole remained as full as at the beginning, with the little green leaffloating on the top. Then the prince turned with a shout of triumph, andthe crocodile sulkily plunged into the river.The prince had escape for ever the second of his three fates!He stood there looking after the crocodile, and rejoicing that he wasfree, when he was startled by a wild duck which flew past them, seekingshelter among the rushes that bordered the edge of the stream. Inanother instant his dog dashed by in hot pursuit, and knocked heavilyagainst his master's legs. The prince staggered, lost his balance andfell backwards into the river, where the mud and the rushes caught himand held him fast. He shrieked for help to his wife, who came running.and luckily brought her rope with her. The poor old dog was drowned, butthe prince was pulled to shore. 'My wife,' he said, 'has been strongerthan my fate.'