Long, long ago, there lived an old man and his wife who had three sons.the eldest was called Martin, the second Michael, while the third wasnamed Jack.One evening they were all seated round the table, eating their supperof bread and milk.'Martin,' said the old man suddenly, 'I feel that I cannot live muchlonger. You, as the eldest, will inherit this hut. but, if you valuemy blessing, be good to your mother and brothers.''Certainly, father. how can you suppose I should do them wrong?'replied Martin indignantly, helping himself to all the best bits in thedish as he spoke. The old man saw nothing, but Michael looked on insurprise, and Jack was so astonished that he quite forgot to eat hisown supper.A little while after, the father fell ill, and sent for his sons, whowere out hunting, to bid him farewell. After giving good advice to thetwo eldest, he turned to Jack.'My boy,' he said, 'you have not got quite as much sense as otherpeople, but if Heaven has deprived you of some of your wits, it wasgiven you a kind heart. Always listen to what it says, and take heedto the words of your mother and brothers, as well as you are able!' Sosaying the old man sank back on his pillows and died.The cries of grief uttered by Martin and Michael sounded through thehouse, but Jack remained by the bedside of his father, still andsilent, as if he were dead also. At length he got up, and going intothe garden, hid himself in some trees, and wept like a child, while histwo brothers made ready for the funeral.No sooner was the old man buried than Martin and Michael agreed thatthey would go into the world together to seek their fortunes, whileJack stayed at home with their mother. Jack would have liked nothingbetter than to sit and dream by the fire, but the mother, who was veryold herself, declared that there was no work for him to do, and that hemust seek it with his brothers.So, one fine morning, all three set out. Martin and Michael carried twogreat bags full of food, but Jack carried nothing. This made hisbrothers very angry, for the day was hot and the bags were heavy, andabout noon they sat down under a tree and began to eat. Jack was ashungry as they were, but he knew that it was no use asking foranything. and he threw himself under another tree, and wept bitterly.'Another time perhaps you won't be so lazy, and will bring food foryourself,' said Martin, but to his surprise Jack answered:'You are a nice pair! You talk of seeking your fortunes so as not tobe a burden on our mother, and you begin by carrying off all the foodshe has in the house!'This reply was so unexpected that for some moments neither of thebrothers made any answer. Then they offered their brother some oftheir food, and when he had finished eating they went their way oncemore.Towards evening they reached a small hut, and knocking at the door,asked if they might spend the night there. The man, who was awood cutter, invited them him, and begged them to sit down to supper.Martin thanked him, but being very proud, explained that it was onlyshelter they wanted, as they had plenty of food with them. and he andMichael at once opened their bags and began to eat, while Jack hidhimself in a corner. The wife, on seeing this, took pity on him, andcalled him to come and share their supper, which he gladly did, andvery good he found it. At this, Martin regretted deeply that he hadbeen so foolish as to refuse, for his bits of bread and cheese seemedvery hard when he smelt the savoury soup his brother was enjoying.'He shan't have such a chance again,' thought he. and the next morninghe insisted on plunging into a thick forest where they were likely tomeet nobody.For a long time they wandered hither and thither, for they had no pathto guide them. but at last they came upon a wide clearing, in the midstof which stood a castle. Jack shouted with delight, but Martin, whowas in a bad temper, said sharply:'We must have taken a wrong turning! Let us go back.''Idiot!' replied Michael, who was hungry too, and, like many peoplewhen they are hungry, very cross also. 'We set out to travel throughthe world, and what does it matter if we go to the right or to theleft?' And, without another word, took the path to the castle, closelyfollowed by Jack, and after a moment by Martin likewise.The door of the castle stood open, and they entered a great hall, andlooked about them. Not a creature was to be seen, and suddenlyMartin he did not know why felt a little frightened. He would haveleft the castle at once, but stopped when Jack boldly walked up to adoor in the wall and opened it. He could not for very shame be outdoneby his younger brother, and passed behind him into another splendidhall, which was filled from floor to ceiling with great pieces ofcopper money.The sight quite dazzled Martin and Michael, who emptied all theprovisions that remained out of their bags, and heaped them up insteadwith handfuls of copper.Scarcely had they done this when Jack threw open another door, and thistime it led to a hall filled with silver. In an instant his brothershad turned their bags upside down, so that the copper money tumbled outon to the floor, and were shovelling in handfuls of the silver instead.They had hardly finished, when Jack opened yet a third door, and allthree fell back in amazement, for this room as a mass of gold, sobright that their eyes grew sore as they looked at it. However, theysoon recovered from their surprise, and quickly emptied their bags ofsilver, and filled them with gold instead. When they would hold nomore, Martin said:'We had better hurry off now lest somebody else should come, and wemight not know what to do'. and, followed by Michael, he hastily leftthe castle. Jack lingered behind for a few minutes to put pieces ofgold, silver, and copper into his pocket, and to eat the food that hisbrothers had thrown down in the first room. Then he went after them,and found them lying down to rest in the midst of a forest. It wasnear sunset, and Martin began to feel hungry, so, when Jack arrived, hebade him return to the castle and bring the bread and cheese that theyhad left there.'It is hardly worth doing that,' answered Jack. 'for I picked up thepieces and ate them myself.'At this reply both brothers were beside themselves with anger, and fellupon the boy, beating him, and calling him names, till they were quitetired.'Go where you like,' cried Martin with a final kick. 'but never comenear us again.' And poor Jack ran weeping into the woods.The next morning his brothers went home, and bought a beautiful house,where they lived with their mother like great lords.Jack remained for some hours in hiding, thankful to be safe from histormentors. but when no one came to trouble him, and his back did notache so much, he began to think what he had better do. At length hemade up his mind to go to the caste and take away as much money withhim as would enable him to live in comfort for the rest of his life.This being decided, he sprang up, and set out along the path which ledto the castle. As before, the door stood open, and he went on till hehad reached the hall of gold, and there he took off his jacket and tiedthe sleeves together so that it might make a kind of bag. He thenbegan to pour in the gold by handfuls, when, all at once, a noise likethunder shook the castle. This was followed by a voice, hoarse as thatof a bull, which cried:'I smell the smell of a man.' And two giants entered.'So, little worm! it is you who steal our treasures!' exclaimed thebiggest. 'Well, we have got you now, and we will cook you for supper!'But here the other giant drew him aside, and for a moment or two theywhispered together. At length the first giant spoke:'To please my friend I will spare your life on condition that, for thefuture, you shall guard our treasures. If you are hungry take thislittle table and rap on it, saying, as you do so: "The dinner of anemperor!" and you will get as much food as you want.'With a light heart Jack promised all that was asked of him, and forsome days enjoyed himself mightily. He had everything he could wishfor, and did nothing from morning till night. but by and by he began toget very tired of it all.'Let the giants guard their treasures themselves,' he said to himselfat last. 'I am going away. But I will leave all the gold and silverbehind me, and will take nought but you, my good little table.'So, tucking the table under his arm, he started off for the forest, buthe did not linger there long, and soon found himself in the fields onthe other side. There he saw an old man, who begged Jack to give himsomething to eat.'You could not have asked a better person,' answered Jack cheerfully.And signing to him to sit down with him under a tree, he set the tablein front of them, and struck it three times, crying:'The dinner of an emperor!' He had hardly uttered the words when fishand meat of all kinds appeared on it!'That is a clever trick of yours,' said the old man, when he had eatenas much as he wanted. 'Give it to me in exchange for a treasure I havewhich is still better. Do you see this cornet? Well, you have only totell it that you wish for an army, and you will have as many soldiersas you require.'Now, since he had been left to himself, Jack had grown ambitious, so,after a moment's hesitation, he took the cornet and gave the table inexchange. The old man bade him farewell, and set off down one path,while Jack chose another, and for a long time he was quite pleased withhis new possession. Then, as he felt hungry, he wished for his tableback again, as no house was in sight, and he wanted some supper badly.All at once he remembered his cornet, and a wicked thought entered hismind.'Two hundred hussars, forward!' cried he. And the neighing of horsesand the clanking of swords were heard close at hand. The officer whorode at their head approached Jack, and politely inquired what hewished them to do.'A mile or two along that road,' answered Jack, 'you will find an oldman carrying a table. Take the table from him and bring it to me.'The officer saluted and went back to his men, who started at a gallopto do Jack's bidding.In ten minutes they had returned, bearing the table with them.'That is all, thank you,' said Jack. and the soldiers disappearedinside the cornet.Oh, what a good supper Jack had that night, quite forgetting that heowed it to a mean trick. The next day he breakfasted early, and thenwalked on towards the nearest town. On the way thither he met anotherold man, who begged for something to eat.'Certainly, you shall have something to eat,' replied Jack. And,placing the table on the ground he cried:'The dinner of an emperor!' when all sorts of food dishes appeared. Atfirst the old man ate quite greedily, and said nothing. but, after hishunger was satisfied, he turned to Jack and said:'That is a very clever trick of yours. Give the table to me and youshall have something still better.''I don't believe that there is anything better,' answered Jack.'Yes, there is. Here is my bag. it will give you as many castles asyou can possibly want.'Jack thought for a moment. then he replied: 'Very well, I will exchangewith you.' And passing the table to the old man, he hung the bag overhis arm.Five minutes later he summoned five hundred lancers out of the cornetand bade them go after the old man and fetch back the table.Now that by his cunning he had obtained possession of the three magicobjects, he resolved to return to his native place. Smearing his facewith dirt, and tearing his clothes so as to look like a beggar, hestopped the passers by and, on pretence of seeking money or food, hequestioned them about the village gossip. In this manner he learnedthat his brothers had become great men, much respected in all thecountry round. When he heard that, he lost no time in going to thedoor of their fine house and imploring them to give him food andshelter. but the only thing he got was hard words, and a command to begelsewhere. At length, however, at their mother's entreaty, he was toldthat he might pass the night in the stable. Here he waited untileverybody in the house was sound asleep, when he drew his bag fromunder his cloak, and desired that a castle might appear in that place.and the cornet gave him soldiers to guard the castle, while the tablefurnished him with a good supper. In the morning, he caused it all tovanish, and when his brothers entered the stable they found him lyingon the straw.Jack remained here for many days, doing nothing, and as far as anybodyknew eating nothing. This conduct puzzled his brothers greatly, andthey put such constant questions to him, that at length he told themthe secret of the table, and even gave a dinner to them, which faroutdid any they had ever seen or heard of. But though they hadsolemnly promised to reveal nothing, somehow or other the tale leakedout, and before long reached the ears of the king himself. That veryevening his chamberlain arrived at Jack's dwelling, with a request fromthe king that he might borrow the table for three days.'Very well,' answered Jack, 'you can take it back with you. But tellhis majesty that if he does not return it at the end of the three daysI will make war upon him.'So the chamberlain carried away the table and took it straight to theking, telling him at the same time of Jack's threat, at which they bothlaughed till their sides ached.Now the king was so delighted with the table, and the dinners it gavehim, that when the three days were over he could not make up his mindto part with it. Instead, he sent for his carpenter, and bade him copyit exactly, and when it was done he told his chamberlain to return itto Jack with his best thanks. It happened to be dinner time, and Jackinvited the chamberlain, who knew nothing of the trick, to stay anddine with him. The good man, who had eaten several excellent mealsprovided by the table in the last three days, accepted the invitationwith pleasure, even though he was to dine in a stable, and sat down onthe straw beside Jack.'The dinner of an emperor!' cried Jack. But not even a morsel ofcheese made its appearance.'The dinner of an emperor!' shouted Jack in a voice of thunder. Thenthe truth dawned on him. and, crushing the table between his hands, heturned to the chamberlain, who, bewildered and half frightened, waswondering how to get away.'Tell your false king that to morrow I will destroy his castle aseasily as I have broken this table.'The chamberlain hastened back to the palace, and gave the king Jack'smessage, at which he laughed more than before, and called all hiscourtiers to hear the story. But they were not quite so merry whenthey woke next morning and beheld ten thousand horsemen, and as manyarchers, surrounding the palace. The king saw it was useless to holdout, and he took the white flag of truce in one hand, and the realtable in the other, and set out to look for Jack.'I committed a crime,' said he. 'but I will do my best to make up forit. Here is your table, which I own with shame that I tried to steal,and you shall have besides, my daughter as your wife!'There was no need to delay the marriage when the table was able tofurnish the most splendid banquet that ever was seen, and aftereveryone had eaten and drunk as much as they wanted, Jack took his bagand commanded a castle filled with all sorts of treasures to arise inthe park for himself and his bride.At this proof of his power the king's heart died within him.'Your magic is greater than mine,' he said. 'and you are young andstrong, while I am old and tired. Take, therefore, the sceptre from myhand, and my crown from my head, and rule my people better than I havedone.'So at last Jack's ambition was satisfied. He could not hope to be morethan king, and as long as he had his cornet to provide him withsoldiers he was secure against his enemies. He never forgave hisbrothers for the way they had treated him, though he presented hismother with a beautiful castle, and everything she could possibly wishfor. In the centre of his own palace was a treasure chamber, and inthis chamber the table, the cornet, and the bag were kept as the mostprized of all his possessions, and not a week passed without a visitfrom king John to make sure they were safe. He reigned long and well,and died a very old man, beloved by his people. But his good examplewas not followed by his sons and his grandsons. They grew so proudthat they were ashamed to think that the founder of their race had oncebeen a poor boy. and as they and all the world could not fail toremember it, as long as the table, the cornet, and the bag were shownin the treasure chamber, one king, more foolish than the rest, thrustthem into a dark and damp cellar.For some time the kingdom remained, though it became weaker and weakerevery year that passed. Then, one day, a rumour reached the king thata large army was marching against him. Vaguely he recollected sometales he had heard about a magic cornet which could provide as manysoldiers as would serve to conquer the earth, and which had beenremoved by his grandfather to a cellar. Thither he hastened that hemight renew his power once more, and in that black and slimy spot hefound the treasures indeed. But the table fell to pieces as he touchedit, in the cornet there remained only a few fragments of leathern beltswhich the rats had gnawed, and in the bag nothing but broken bits ofstone.And the king bowed his head to the doom that awaited him, and in hisheart cursed the ruin wrought by the pride and foolishness of himselfand his forefathers.