Once there lived a farmer who had three daughters, and good useful girlsthey were, up with the sun, and doing all the work of the house. Onemorning they all ran down to the river to wash their clothes, when ahoodie came round and sat on a tree close by.'Wilt thou wed me, thou farmer's daughter?' he said to the eldest.'Indeed I won't wed thee,' she answered, 'an ugly brute is the hoodie.'And the bird, much offended, spread his wings and flew away. But thefollowing day he came back again, and said to the second girl:'Wilt thou wed me, farmer's daughter?''Indeed I will not,' answered she, 'an ugly brute is the hoodie.' Andthe hoodie was more angry than before, and went away in a rage. However,after a night's rest he was in a better temper, and thought that hemight be more lucky the third time, so back he went to the old place.'Wilt thou wed me, farmer's daughter?' he said to the youngest.'Indeed I will wed thee. a pretty creature is the hoodie,' answered she,and on the morrow they were married.'I have something to ask thee,' said the hoodie when they were far awayin his own house. 'Wouldst thou rather I should be a hoodie by day and aman by night, or a man by day and a hoodie by night?'The girl was surprised at his words, for she did not know that he couldbe anything but a hoodie at all times.Still she said nothing of this, and only replied, 'I would rather thouwert a man by day and a hoodie by night,' And so he was. and a handsomerman or a more beautiful hoodie never was seen. The girl loved them both,and never wished for things to be different.By and bye they had a son, and very pleased they both were. But in thenight soft music was heard stealing close towards the house, and everyman slept, and the mother slept also. When they woke again it wasmorning, and the baby was gone. High and low they looked for it, butnowhere could they find it, and the farmer, who had come to see hisdaughter, was greatly grieved, as he feared it might be thought that hehad stolen it, because he did not want the hoodie for a son in law.The next year the hoodie's wife had another son, and this time a watchwas set at every door. But it was no use. In vain they determined that,come what might, they would not close their eyes. at the first note ofmusic they all fell asleep, and when the farmer arrived in the morningto see his grandson, he found them all weeping, for while they had sleptthe baby had vanished.Well, the next year it all happened again, and the hoodie's wife was sounhappy that her husband resolved to take her away to another house hehad, and her sisters with her for company. So they set out in a coachwhich was big enough to hold them, and had not gone very far when thehoodie suddenly said:'You are sure you have not forgotten anything?''I have forgotten my coarse comb,' answered the wife, feeling in herpocket, and as she spoke the coach changed into a withered faggot, andthe man became a hoodie again, and flew away.The two sisters returned home, but the wife followed the hoodie.Sometimes she would see him on a hill top, and then would hasten afterhim, hoping to catch him. But by the time she had got to the top of thehill, he would be in the valley on the other side. When night came, andshe was tired, she looked about for some place to rest, and glad she wasto see a little house full of light straight in front of her, and shehurried towards it as fast as she could.At the door stood a little boy, and the sight of him filled her heartwith pleasure, she did not know why. A woman came out, and bade herwelcome, and set before her food, and gave her a soft bed to lie on. Andthe hoodie's wife lay down, and so tired was she, that it seemed to herbut a moment before the sun rose, and she awoke again. From hill to hillshe went after the hoodie, and sometimes she saw him on the top. butwhen she got to the top, he had flown into the valley, and when shereached the valley he was on the top of another hill and so it happenedtill night came round again. Then she looked round for some place torest in, and she beheld a little house of light before her, and fast shehurried towards it. At the door stood a little boy, and her heart wasfilled with pleasure at the sight of him, she did not know why. Afterthat a woman bade her enter, and set food before her, and gave hera soft bed to lie in. And when the sun rose she got up, and left thehouse, in search of the hoodie. This day everything befell as on thetwo other days, but when she reached the small house, the woman bade herkeep awake, and if the hoodie flew into the room, to try to seize him.But the wife had walked far, and was very tired, and strive as shewould, she fell sound asleep.Many hours she slept, and the hoodie entered through a window, and letfall a ring on her hand. The girl awoke with a start, and leant forwardto grasp him, but he was already flying off, and she only seized afeather from his wing. And when dawn came, she got up and told thewoman.'He has gone over the hill of poison,' said she, 'and there you cannotfollow him without horse shoes on your hands and feet. But I will helpyou. Put on this suit of men's clothes, and go down this road till youcome to the smithy, and there you can learn to make horse shoes foryourself.'The girl thanked her, and put on the cloths and went down the road todo her bidding. So hard did she work, that in a few days she was ableto make the horse shoes. Early one morning she set out for the hill ofpoison. On her hands and feet she went, but even with the horse shoeson she had to be very careful not to stumble, lest some poisoned thornsshould enter into her flesh, and she should die. But when at last shewas over, it was only to hear that her husband was to be married thatday to the daughter of a great lord.Now there was to be a race in the town, and everyone meant to be there,except the stranger who had come over the hill of poison everyone, thatis, but the cook, who was to make the bridal supper. Greatly he lovedraces, and sore was his heart to think that one should be run withouthis seeing it, so when he beheld a woman whom he did not know comingalong the street, hope sprang up in him.'Will you cook the wedding feast in place of me?' he said, 'and I willpay you well when I return from the race.'Gladly she agreed, and cooked the feast in a kitchen that looked intothe great hall, where the company were to eat it. After that she watchedthe seat where the bridegroom was sitting, and taking a plateful of thebroth, she dropped the ring and the feather into it, and set if herselfbefore him.With the first spoonful he took up the ring, and a thrill ran throughhim. in the second he beheld the feather and rose from his chair.'Who has cooked this feast?' asked he, and the real cook, who had comeback from the race, was brought before him.'He may be the cook, but he did not cook this feast,' said thebridegroom, and then inquiry was made, and the girl was summoned to thegreat hall.'That is my married wife,' he declared, 'and no one else will I have,'and at that very moment the spells fell off him, and never more would hebe a hoodie. Happy indeed were they to be together again, and little didthey mind that the hill of poison took long to cross, for she had to gosome way forwards, and then throw the horse shoes back for him to puton. Still, at last they were over, and they went back the way she hadcome, and stopped at the three houses in order to take their little sonsto their own home.But the story never says who had stolen them, nor what the coarse combhad to do with it.From 'West Highland Tales.'