A soothsayer when on his deathbed wrote out the horoscope of hissecond son, whose name was Gangazara, and bequeathed it to him as hisonly property, leaving the whole of his estate to his eldest son. Thesecond son thought over the horoscope, and said to himself:"Alas! am I born to this only in the world? The sayings of my fathernever failed. I have seen them prove true to the last word while hewas living. and how has he fixed my horoscope! 'FROM MY BIRTHPOVERTY!' Nor is that my only fate. 'FOR TEN YEARS, IMPRISONMENT' afate harder than poverty. and what comes next? 'DEATH ON THESEA SHORE'. which means that I must die away from home, far fromfriends and relatives on a sea coast. Now comes the most curious partof the horoscope, that I am to 'HAVE SOME HAPPINESS AFTERWARDS!' Whatthis happiness is, is an enigma to me."Thus thought he, and after all the funeral obsequies of his fatherwere over, took leave of his elder brother, and started for Benares.He went by the middle of the Deccan, avoiding both the coasts, andwent on journeying and journeying for weeks and months, till at lasthe reached the Vindhya mountains. While passing that desert he had tojourney for a couple of days through a sandy plain, with no signs oflife or vegetation. The little store of provision with which he wasprovided for a couple of days, at last was exhausted. The chombu,which he carried always full, filling it with the sweet water from theflowing rivulet or plenteous tank, he had exhausted in the heat of thedesert. There was not a morsel in his hand to eat. nor a drop of waterto drink. Turn his eyes wherever he might he found a vast desert, outof which he saw no means of escape. Still he thought within himself,"Surely my father's prophecy never proved untrue. I must survive thiscalamity to find my death on some sea coast." So thought he, and thisthought gave him strength of mind to walk fast and try to find a dropof water somewhere to slake his dry throat.At last he succeeded. heaven threw in his way a ruined well. Hethought he could collect some water if he let down his chombu with thestring that he always carried noosed to the neck of it. Accordingly helet it down. it went some way and stopped, and the following wordscame from the well: "Oh, relieve me! I am the king of tigers, dyinghere of hunger. For the last three days I have had nothing. Fortunehas sent you here. If you assist me now you will find a sure help inme throughout your life. Do not think that I am a beast of prey. Whenyou have become my deliverer I will never touch you. Pray, kindly liftme up." Gangazara thought: "Shall I take him out or not? If I take himout he may make me the first morsel of his hungry mouth. No. that hewill not do. For my father's prophecy never came untrue. I must die ona sea coast, and not by a tiger." Thus thinking, he asked thetiger king to hold tight to the vessel, which he accordingly did, andhe lifted him up slowly. The tiger reached the top of the well andfelt himself on safe ground. True to his word, he did no harm toGangazara. On the other hand, he walked round his patron three times,and standing before him, humbly spoke the following words: "Mylife giver, my benefactor! I shall never forget this day, when Iregained my life through your kind hands. In return for this kindassistance I pledge my oath to stand by you in all calamities.Whenever you are in any difficulty just think of me. I am there withyou ready to oblige you by all the means that I can. To tell youbriefly how I came in here: Three days ago I was roaming in yonderforest, when I saw a goldsmith passing through it. I chased him. He,finding it impossible to escape my claws, jumped into this well, andis living to this moment in the very bottom of it. I also jumped in,but found myself on the first ledge of the well. he is on the last andfourth ledge. In the second lives a serpent half famished with hunger.On the third lies a rat, also half famished, and when you again beginto draw water these may request you first to release them. In the sameway the goldsmith also may ask you. I beg you, as your bosom friend,never assist that wretched man, though he is your relation as a humanbeing. Goldsmiths are never to be trusted. You can place more faith inme, a tiger, though I feast sometimes upon men, in a serpent, whosesting makes your blood cold the very next moment, or in a rat, whichdoes a thousand pieces of mischief in your house. But never trust agoldsmith. Do not release him. and if you do, you shall surely repentof it one day or other." Thus advising, the hungry tiger went awaywithout waiting for an answer.Gangazara thought several times of the eloquent way in which the tigerspoke, and admired his fluency of speech. But still his thirst was notquenched. So he let down his vessel again, which was now caught holdof by the serpent, who addressed him thus: "Oh, my protector! Lift meup. I am the king of serpents, and the son of Adisesha, who is nowpining away in agony for my disappearance. Release me now. I shallever remain your servant, remember your assistance, and help youthroughout life in all possible ways. Oblige me: I am dying."Gangazara, calling again to mind the "DEATH ON THE SEA SHORE" of theprophecy lifted him up. He, like the tiger king, walked round himthrice, and prostrating himself before him spoke thus: "Oh, mylife giver, my father, for so I must call you, as you have given meanother birth. I was three days ago basking myself in the morning sun,when I saw a rat running before me. I chased him. He fell into thiswell. I followed him, but instead of falling on the third storey wherehe is now lying, I fell into the second. I am going away now to see myfather. Whenever you are in any difficulty just think of me. I will bethere by your side to assist you by all possible means." So saying,the Nagaraja glided away in zigzag movements, and was out of sight ina moment.The poor son of the Soothsayer, who was now almost dying of thirst,let down his vessel for a third time. The rat caught hold of it, andwithout discussing he lifted up the poor animal at once. But it wouldnot go away without showing its gratitude: "Oh, life of my life! Mybenefactor! I am the king of rats. Whenever you are in any calamityjust think of me. I will come to you, and assist you. My keen earsoverheard all that the tiger king told you about the goldsmith, who isin the fourth storey. It is nothing but a sad truth that goldsmithsought never to be trusted. Therefore, never assist him as you havedone to us all. And if you do, you will suffer for it. I am hungry.let me go for the present." Thus taking leave of his benefactor, therat, too, ran away.Gangazara for a while thought upon the repeated advice given by thethree animals about releasing the goldsmith: "What wrong would therebe in my assisting him? Why should I not release him also?" Sothinking to himself, Gangazara let down the vessel again. Thegoldsmith caught hold of it, and demanded help. The Soothsayer's sonhad no time to lose. he was himself dying of thirst. Therefore helifted the goldsmith up, who now began his story. "Stop for a while,"said Gangazara, and after quenching his thirst by letting down hisvessel for the fifth time, still fearing that some one might remain inthe well and demand his assistance, he listened to the goldsmith, whobegan as follows: "My dear friend, my protector, what a deal ofnonsense these brutes have been talking to you about me. I am glad youhave not followed their advice. I am just now dying of hunger. Permitme to go away. My name is Manikkasari. I live in the East main streetof Ujjaini, which is twenty kas to the south of this place, and solies on your way when you return from Benares. Do not forget to cometo me and receive my kind remembrances of your assistance, on your wayback to your country." So saying, the goldsmith took his leave, andGangazara also pursued his way north after the above adventures.He reached Benares, and lived there for more than ten years, and quiteforgot the tiger, serpent, rat, and goldsmith. After ten years ofreligious life, thoughts of home and of his brother rushed into hismind. "I have secured enough merit now by my religious observances.Let me return home." Thus thought Gangazara within himself, and verysoon he was on his way back to his country. Remembering the prophecyof his father he returned by the same way by which he went to Benaresten years before. While thus retracing his steps he reached the ruinedwell where he had released the three brute kings and the goldsmith. Atonce the old recollections rushed into his mind, and he thought of thetiger to test his fidelity. Only a moment passed, and the tiger kingcame running before him carrying a large crown in his mouth, theglitter of the diamonds of which for a time outshone even the brightrays of the sun. He dropped the crown at his life giver's feet, and,putting aside all his pride, humbled himself like a pet cat to thestrokes of his protector, and began in the following words: "Mylife giver! How is it that you have forgotten me, your poor servant,for such a long time? I am glad to find that I still occupy a cornerin your mind. I can never forget the day when I owed my life to yourlotus hands. I have several jewels with me of little value. Thiscrown, being the best of all, I have brought here as a single ornamentof great value, which you can carry with you and dispose of in yourown country." Gangazara looked at the crown, examined it over andover, counted and recounted the gems, and thought within himself thathe would become the richest of men by separating the diamonds andgold, and selling them in his own country. He took leave of thetiger king, and after his disappearance thought of the kings ofserpents and rats, who came in their turn with their presents, andafter the usual greetings and exchange of words took their leave.Gangazara was extremely delighted at the faithfulness with which thebrute beasts behaved, and went on his way to the south. While goingalong he spoke to himself thus: "These beasts have been very faithfulin their assistance. Much more, therefore, must Manikkasari befaithful. I do not want anything from him now. If I take this crownwith me as it is, it occupies much space in my bundle. It may alsoexcite the curiosity of some robbers on the way. I will go now toUjjaini on my way. Manikkasari requested me to see him without failureon my return journey. I shall do so, and request him to have the crownmelted, the diamonds and gold separated. He must do that kindness atleast for me. I shall then roll up these diamonds and gold ball in myrags, and wend my way homewards." Thus thinking and thinking, hereached Ujjaini. At once he inquired for the house of his goldsmithfriend, and found him without difficulty. Manikkasari was extremelydelighted to find on his threshold him who ten years before,notwithstanding the advice repeatedly given him by the sage lookingtiger, serpent, and rat, had relieved him from the pit of death.Gangazara at once showed him the crown that he received from thetiger king, told him how he got it, and requested his kind assistanceto separate the gold and diamonds. Manikkasari agreed to do so, andmeanwhile asked his friend to rest himself for a while to have hisbath and meals. and Gangazara, who was very observant of his religiousceremonies, went direct to the river to bathe.How came the crown in the jaws of the tiger? The king of Ujjaini had aweek before gone with all his hunters on a hunting expedition. All ofa sudden the tiger king started from the wood, seized the king, andvanished.When the king's attendants informed the prince about the death of hisfather he wept and wailed, and gave notice that he would give half ofhis kingdom to any one who should bring him news about the murderer ofhis father. The goldsmith knew full well that it was a tiger thatkilled the king, and not any hunter's hands, since he had heard fromGangazara how he obtained the crown. Still, he resolved to denounceGangazara as the king's murderer, so, hiding the crown under hisgarments, he flew to the palace. He went before the prince andinformed him that the assassin was caught, and placed the crown beforehim. The prince took it into his hands, examined it, and at once gavehalf the kingdom to Manikkasari, and then inquired about the murderer."He is bathing in the river, and is of such and such appearance," wasthe reply. At once four armed soldiers flew to the river, and boundthe poor Brahman hand and foot, while he, sitting in meditation, waswithout any knowledge of the fate that hung over him. They broughtGangazara to the presence of the prince, who turned his face away fromthe supposed murderer, and asked his soldiers to throw him into adungeon. In a minute, without knowing the cause, the poor Brahmanfound himself in the dark dungeon.It was a dark cellar underground, built with strong stone walls, intowhich any criminal guilty of a capital offence was ushered to breathehis last there without food and drink. Such was the cellar into whichGangazara was thrust. What were his thoughts when he reached thatplace? "It is of no use to accuse either the goldsmith or the princenow. We are all the children of fate. We must obey her commands. Thisis but the first day of my father's prophecy. So far his statement istrue. But how am I going to pass ten years here? Perhaps withoutanything to sustain life I may drag on my existence for a day or two.But how pass ten years? That cannot be, and I must die. Before deathcomes let me think of my faithful brute friends."So pondered Gangazara in the dark cell underground, and at that momentthought of his three friends. The tiger king, serpent king, andrat king assembled at once with their armies at a garden near thedungeon, and for a while did not know what to do. They held theircouncil, and decided to make an underground passage from the insideof a ruined well to the dungeon. The rat raja issued an order at onceto that effect to his army. They, with their teeth, bored the ground along way to the walls of the prison. After reaching it they found thattheir teeth could not work on the hard stones. The bandicoots werethen specially ordered for the business. they, with their hard teeth,made a small slit in the wall for a rat to pass and repass withoutdifficulty. Thus a passage was effected.The rat raja entered first to condole with his protector on hismisfortune, and undertook to supply his protector with provisions."Whatever sweetmeats or bread are prepared in any house, one and allof you must try to bring whatever you can to our benefactor. Whateverclothes you find hanging in a house, cut down, dip the pieces inwater, and bring the wet bits to our benefactor. He will squeeze themand gather water for drink! and the bread and sweetmeats shall formhis food." Having issued these orders, the king of the rats took leaveof Gangazara. They, in obedience to their king's order, continued tosupply him with provisions and water.The snake king said: "I sincerely condole with you in your calamity.the tiger king also fully sympathises with you, and wants me to tellyou so, as he cannot drag his huge body here as we have done with oursmall ones. The king of the rats has promised to do his best toprovide you with food. We would now do what we can for your release.From this day we shall issue orders to our armies to oppress all thesubjects of this kingdom. The deaths by snake bite and tigers shallincrease a hundredfold from this day, and day by day it shall continueto increase till your release. Whenever you hear people near you, youhad better bawl out so as to be heard by them: 'The wretched princeimprisoned me on the false charge of having killed his father, whileit was a tiger that killed him. From that day these calamities havebroken out in his dominions. If I were released I would save all by mypowers of healing poisonous wounds and by incantations.' Some one mayreport this to the king, and if he knows it, you will obtain yourliberty." Thus comforting his protector in trouble, he advised him topluck up courage, and took leave of him. From that day tigers andserpents, acting under the orders of their kings, united in killing asmany persons and cattle as possible. Every day people were carriedaway by tigers or bitten by serpents. Thus passed months and years.Gangazara sat in the dark cellar, without the sun's light falling uponhim, and feasted upon the breadcrumbs and sweetmeats that the rats sokindly supplied him with. These delicacies had completely changed hisbody into a red, stout, huge, unwieldy mass of flesh. Thus passed fullten years, as prophesied in the horoscope.Ten complete years rolled away in close imprisonment. On the lastevening of the tenth year one of the serpents got into the bed chamberof the princess and sucked her life. She breathed her last. She wasthe only daughter of the king. The king at once sent for all thesnake bite curers. He promised half his kingdom and his daughter'shand to him who would restore her to life. Now a servant of the kingwho had several times overheard Gangazara's cries, reported the matterto him. The king at once ordered the cell to be examined. There wasthe man sitting in it. How had he managed to live so long in the cell?Some whispered that he must be a divine being. Thus they discussed,while they brought Gangazara to the king.The king no sooner saw Gangazara than he fell on the ground. He wasstruck by the majesty and grandeur of his person. His ten years'imprisonment in the deep cell underground had given a sort of lustreto his body. His hair had first to be cut before his face could beseen. The king begged forgiveness for his former fault, and requestedhim to revive his daughter."Bring me within an hour all the corpses of men and cattle, dying anddead, that remain unburnt or unburied within the range of yourdominions. I shall revive them all," were the only words thatGangazara spoke.Cartloads of corpses of men and cattle began to come in every minute.Even graves, it is said, were broken open, and corpses buried a day ortwo before were taken out and sent for their revival. As soon as allwere ready, Gangazara took a vessel full of water and sprinkled itover them all, thinking only of his snake king and tiger king. Allrose up as if from deep slumber, and went to their respective homes.The princess, too, was restored to life. The joy of the king knew nobounds. He cursed the day on which he imprisoned him, blamed himselffor having believed the word of a goldsmith, and offered him the handof his daughter and the whole kingdom, instead of half, as hepromised. Gangazara would not accept anything, but asked the king toassemble all his subjects in a wood near the town. "I shall there callin all the tigers and serpents, and give them a general order."When the whole town was assembled, just at the dusk of evening,Gangazara sat dumb for a moment, and thought upon the Tiger King andthe Serpent King, who came with all their armies. People began to taketo their heels at the sight of tigers. Gangazara assured them ofsafety, and stopped them.The grey light of the evening, the pumpkin colour of Gangazara, theholy ashes scattered lavishly over his body, the tigers and snakeshumbling themselves at his feet, gave him the true majesty of the godGangazara. For who else by a single word could thus command vastarmies of tigers and serpents, said some among the people. "Care notfor it. it may be by magic. That is not a great thing. That he revivedcartloads of corpses shows him to be surely Gangazara," said others."Why should you, my children, thus trouble these poor subjects ofUjjaini? Reply to me, and henceforth desist from your ravages." Thussaid the Soothsayer's son, and the following reply came from the kingof the tigers: "Why should this base king imprison your honour,believing the mere word of a goldsmith that your honour killed hisfather? All the hunters told him that his father was carried away by atiger. I was the messenger of death sent to deal the blow on his neck.I did it, and gave the crown to your honour. The prince makes noinquiry, and at once imprisons your honour. How can we expect justicefrom such a stupid king as that? Unless he adopt a better standard ofjustice we will go on with our destruction."The king heard, cursed the day on which he believed in the word of agoldsmith, beat his head, tore his hair, wept and wailed for hiscrime, asked a thousand pardons, and swore to rule in a just way fromthat day. The serpent king and tiger king also promised to observetheir oath as long as justice prevailed, and took their leave. Thegoldsmith fled for his life. He was caught by the soldiers of theking, and was pardoned by the generous Gangazara, whose voice nowreigned supreme. All returned to their homes.The king again pressed Gangazara to accept the hand of his daughter.He agreed to do so, not then, but some time afterwards. He wished togo and see his elder brother first, and then to return and marry theprincess. The king agreed. and Gangazara left the city that very dayon his way home.It so happened that unwittingly he took a wrong road, and had to passnear a sea coast. His elder brother was also on his way up to Benaresby that very same route. They met and recognised each other, even at adistance. They flew into each other's arms. Both remained still for atime almost unconscious with joy. The pleasure of Gangazara was sogreat that he died of joy.The elder brother was a devout worshipper of Ganesa. That was aFriday, a day very sacred to that god. The elder brother took thecorpse to the nearest Ganesa temple and called upon him. The god came,and asked him what he wanted. "My poor brother is dead and gone. andthis is his corpse. Kindly keep it in your charge till I finishworshipping you. If I leave it anywhere else the devils may snatch itaway when I am absent worshipping you. after finishing the rites Ishall burn him." Thus said the elder brother, and, giving the corpseto the god Ganesa, he went to prepare himself for that deity'sceremonials. Ganesa made over the corpse to his Ganas, asking them towatch over it carefully. But instead of that they devoured it.The elder brother, after finishing the puja, demanded his brother'scorpse of the god. The god called his Ganas, who came to the frontblinking, and fearing the anger of their master. The god was greatlyenraged. The elder brother was very angry. When the corpse was notforthcoming he cuttingly remarked, "Is this, after all, the return formy deep belief in you? You are unable even to return my brother'scorpse." Ganesa was much ashamed at the remark. So he, by his divinepower, gave him a living Gangazara instead of the dead corpse. Thuswas the second son of the Soothsayer restored to life.The brothers had a long talk about each other's adventures. They bothwent to Ujjaini, where Gangazara married the princess, and succeededto the throne of that kingdom. He reigned for a long time, conferringseveral benefits upon his brother. And so the horoscope was fullyfulfilled.