On board a steamer I once met an elderly man, with such a merryface that, if it was really an index of his mind, he must have beenthe happiest fellow in creation. and indeed he considered himselfso, for I heard it from his own mouth. He was a Dane, the owner of atravelling theatre. He had all his company with him in a large box,for he was the proprietor of a puppet show. His inborn cheerfulness,he said, had been tested by a member of the Polytechnic Institution,and the experiment had made him completely happy. I did not at firstunderstand all this, but afterwards he explained the whole story tome. and here it is: "I was giving a representation," he said, "in the hall of theposting house in the little town of Slagelse. there was a splendidaudience, entirely juvenile excepting two respectable matrons. Allat once, a person in black, of student like appearance, entered theroom, and sat down. he laughed aloud at the telling points, andapplauded quite at the proper time. This was a very unusualspectator for me, and I felt anxious to know who he was. I heardthat he was a member of the Polytechnic Institution in Copenhagen, whohad been sent out to lecture to the people in the provinces.Punctually at eight o'clock my performance closed, for children mustgo early to bed, and a manager must also consult the convenience ofthe public."At nine o'clock the lecturer commenced his lecture and hisexperiments, and then I formed a part of his audience. It waswonderful both to hear and to see. The greater part of it was beyondmy comprehension, but it led me to think that if we men can acquire somuch, we must surely be intended to last longer than the little spanwhich extends only to the time when we are hidden away under theearth. His experiments were quite miracles on a small scale, and yetthe explanations flowed as naturally as water from his lips. At thetime of Moses and the prophets, such a man would have been placedamong the sages of the land. in the middle ages they would haveburnt him at the stake."All night long I could not sleep. and the next evening when Igave another performance and the lecturer was present, I was in one ofmy best moods."I once heard of an actor, who, when he had to act the part of alover, always thought of one particular lady in the audience. heonly played for her, and forgot all the rest of the house, and now thePolytechnic lecturer was my she, my only auditor, for whom alone Iplayed."When the performance was over, and the puppets removed behind thecurtain, the Polytechnic lecturer invited me into his room to take aglass of wine. He talked of my comedies, and I of his science, and Ibelieve we were both equally pleased. But I had the best of it, forthere was much in what he did that he could not always explain tome. For instance, why a piece of iron which is rubbed on a cylinder,should become magnetic. How does this happen? The magnetic sparks cometo it, but how? It is the same with people in the world. they arerubbed about on this spherical globe till the electric spark comesupon them, and then we have a Napoleon, or a Luther, or some one ofthe kind."'The whole world is but a series of miracles,' said the lecturer,'but we are so accustomed to them that we call them everyday matters.'And he went on explaining things to me till my skull seemed liftedfrom my brain, and I declared that were I not such an old fellow, Iwould at once become a member of the Polytechnic Institution, that Imight learn to look at the bright side of everything, although I wasone of the happiest of men."'One of the happiest!' said the lecturer, as if the ideapleased him. 'are you really happy?'"'Yes,' I replied. 'for I am welcomed in every town, when I arrivewith my company. but I certainly have one wish which sometimesweighs upon my cheerful temper like a mountain of lead. I shouldlike to become the manager of a real theatre, and the director of areal troupe of men and women.'"'I understand,' he said. 'you would like to have life breathedinto your puppets, so that they might be living actors, and youtheir director. And would you then be quite happy?'"I said I believed so. But he did not. and we talked it over inall manner of ways, yet could not agree on the subject. However, thewine was excellent, and we clanked our glasses together as we drank.There must have been magic in it, or I should most certainly becometipsy. but that did not happen, for my mind seemed quite clear. and,indeed, a kind of sunshine filled the room, and beamed from the eyesof the Polytechnic lecturer. It made me think of the old storieswhen the gods, in their immortal youth, wandered upon this earth,and paid visits to mankind. I said so to him, and he smiled. and Icould have sworn that he was one of these ancient deities in disguise,or, at all events, that he belonged to the race of the gods. Theresult seemed to prove I was right in my suspicions. for it wasarranged that my highest wish should be granted, that my puppetswere to be gifted with life, and that I was to be the manager of areal company. We drank to my success, and clanked our glasses. Then hepacked all my dolls into the box, and fastened it on my back, and Ifelt as if I were spinning round in a circle, and presently foundmyself lying on the floor. I remember that quite well. And then thewhole company sprang from the box. The spirit had come upon us all.the puppets had become distinguished actors at least, so they saidthemselves and I was their director."When all was ready for the first representation, the wholecompany requested permission to speak to me before appearing inpublic. The dancing lady said the house could not be supportedunless she stood on one leg. for she was a great genius, and begged tobe treated as such. The lady who acted the part of the queenexpected to be treated as a queen off the stage, as well as on it,or else she said she should get out of practice. The man whose duty itwas to deliver a letter gave himself as many airs as he who took thepart of first lover in the piece. he declared that the inferiorparts were as important as the great ones, and deserving equalconsideration, as parts of an artistic whole. The hero of the piecewould only play in a part containing points likely to bring down theapplause of the house. The 'prima donna' would only act when thelights were red, for she declared that a blue light did not suit hercomplexion. It was like a company of flies in a bottle, and I was inthe bottle with them. for I was their director. My breath was takenaway, my head whirled, and I was as miserable as a man could be. Itwas quite a novel, strange set of beings among whom I now foundmyself. I only wished I had them all in my box again, and that I hadnever been their director. So I told them roundly that, after all,they were nothing but puppets. and then they killed me. After awhile I found myself lying on my bed in my room. but how I gotthere, or how I got away at all from the Polytechnic professor, he mayperhaps know, I don't. The moon shone upon the floor, the box layopen, and the dolls were all scattered about in great confusion. but Iwas not idle. I jumped off the bed, and into the box they all had togo, some on their heads, some on their feet. Then I shut down the lid,and seated myself upon the box. 'Now you'll have to stay,' said I,'and I shall be cautious how I wish you flesh and blood again.'"I felt quite light, my cheerfulness had returned, and I was thehappiest of mortals. The Polytechnic professor had fully cured me. Iwas as happy as a king, and went to sleep on the box. Nextmorning correctly speaking, it was noon, for I slept remarkably latethat day I found myself still sitting there, in happy consciousness thatmy former wish had been a foolish one. I inquired for the Polytechnicprofessor. but he had disappeared like the Greek and Roman gods.from that time I have been the happiest man in the world. I am a happydirector. for none of my company ever grumble, nor the publiceither, for I always make them merry. I can arrange my pieces justas I please. I choose out of every comedy what I like best, and no oneis offended. Plays that are neglected now a days by the great publicwere ran after thirty years ago, and listened to till the tears randown the cheeks of the audience. These are the pieces I bring forward.I place them before the little ones, who cry over them as papa andmamma used to cry thirty years ago. But I make them shorter, for theyoungsters don't like long speeches. and if they have anythingmournful, they like it to be over quickly."