From the Danish.There was once a lad who went to look for a place. As he went along hemet a man, who asked him where he was going. He told him his errand, andthe stranger said, 'Then you can serve me. I am just in want of a ladlike you, and I will give you good wages a bushel of money the firstyear, two the second year, and three the third year, for you must serveme three years, and obey me in everything, however strange it seems toyou. You need not be afraid of taking service with me, for there is nodanger in it if you only know how to obey.'The bargain was made, and the lad went home with the man to whom he hadengaged himself. It was a strange place indeed, for he lived in a bankin the middle of the wild forest, and the lad saw there no other personthan his master. The latter was a great troll, and had marvellous powerover both men and beasts.Next day the lad had to begin his service. The first thing that thetroll set him to was to feed all the wild animals from the forest. Thesethe troll had tied up, and there were both wolves and bears, deer andhares, which the troll had gathered in the stalls and folds in hisstable down beneath the ground, and that stable was a mile long. Theboy, however, accomplished all this work on that day, and the trollpraised him and said that it was very well done.Next morning the troll said to him, 'To day the animals are not to befed. they don't get the like of that every day. You shall have leave toplay about for a little, until they are to be fed again.'Then the troll said some words to him which he did not understand, andwith that the lad turned into a hare, and ran out into the wood. He gotplenty to run for, too, for all the hunters aimed at him, and tried toshoot him, and the dogs barked and ran after him wherever they got windof him. He was the only animal that was left in the wood now, for thetroll had tied up all the others, and every hunter in the whole countrywas eager to knock him over. But in this they met with no success. therewas no dog that could overtake him, and no marksman that could hit him.They shot and shot at him, and he ran and ran. It was an unquiet life,but in the long run he got used to it, when he saw that there was nodanger in it, and it even amused him to befool all the hunters and dogsthat were so eager after him.Thus a whole year passed, and when it was over the troll called himhome, for he was now in his power like all the other animals. The trollthen said some words to him which he did not understand, and the hareimmediately became a human being again. 'Well, how do you like to serveme?' said the troll, 'and how do you like being a hare?'The lad replied that he liked it very well. he had never been able to goover the ground so quickly before. The troll then showed him the bushelof money that he had already earned, and the lad was well pleased toserve him for another year.The first day of the second year the boy had the same work to do as onthe previous one namely, to feed all the wild animals in the troll'sstable. When he had done this the troll again said some words to him,and with that he became a raven, and flew high up into the air. This wasdelightful, the lad thought. he could go even faster now than when hewas a hare, and the dogs could not come after him here. This was a greatdelight to him, but he soon found out that he was not to be left quiteat peace, for all the marksmen and hunters who saw him aimed at him andfired away, for they had no other birds to shoot at than himself, as thetroll had tied up all the others.This, however, he also got used to, when he saw that they could neverhit him, and in this way he flew about all that year, until the trollcalled him home again, said some strange words to him, and gave himhis human shape again. 'Well, how did you like being a raven?' said thetroll.'I liked it very well,' said the lad, 'for never in all my days have Ibeen able to rise so high.' The troll then showed him the two bushelsof money which he had earned that year, and the lad was well content toremain in his service for another year.Next day he got his old task of feeding all the wild beasts. When thiswas done the troll again said some words to him, and at these he turnedinto a fish, and sprang into the river. He swam up and he swam down, andthought it was pleasant to let himself drive with the stream. In thisway he came right out into the sea, and swam further and further out. Atlast he came to a glass palace, which stood at the bottom of the sea. Hecould see into all the rooms and halls, where everything was very grand.all the furniture was of white ivory, inlaid with gold and pearl. Therewere soft rugs and cushions of all the colours of the rainbow, andbeautiful carpets that looked like the finest moss, and flowers andtrees with curiously crooked branches, both green and yellow, white andred, and there were also little fountains which sprang up from the mostbeautiful snail shells, and fell into bright mussel shells, and at thesame time made a most delightful music, which filled the whole palace.The most beautiful thing of all, however, was a young girl who wentabout there, all alone. She went about from one room to another, but didnot seem to be happy with all the grandeur she had about her. She walkedin solitude and melancholy, and never even thought of looking at herown image in the polished glass walls that were on every side of her,although she was the prettiest creature anyone could wish to see. Thelad thought so too while he swam round the palace and peeped in fromevery side.'Here, indeed, it would be better to be a man than such a poor dumb fishas I am now,' said he to himself. 'if I could only remember the wordsthat the troll says when he changes my shape, then perhaps I could helpmyself to become a man again.' He swam and he pondered and he thoughtover this until he remembered the sound of what the troll said, and thenhe tried to say it himself. In a moment he stood in human form at thebottom of the sea.He made haste then to enter the glass palace, and went up to the younggirl and spoke to her.At first he nearly frightened the life out of her, but he talked toher so kindly and explained how he had come down there that she soonrecovered from her alarm, and was very pleased to have some company torelieve the terrible solitude that she lived in. Time passed so quicklyfor both of them that the youth (for now he was quite a young man, andno more a lad) forgot altogether how long he had been there.One day the girl said to him that now it was close on the time when hemust become a fish again the troll would soon call him home, and hewould have to go, but before that he must put on the shape of the fish,otherwise he could not pass through the sea alive. Before this, while hewas staying down there, she had told him that she was a daughter of thesame troll whom the youth served, and he had shut her up there to keepher away from everyone. She had now devised a plan by which they couldperhaps succeed in getting to see each other again, and spending therest of their lives together. But there was much to attend to, and hemust give careful heed to all that she told him.She told him then that all the kings in the country round about werein debt to her father the troll, and the king of a certain kingdom,the name of which she told him, was the first who had to pay, and if hecould not do so at the time appointed he would lose his head. 'And hecannot pay,' said she. 'I know that for certain. Now you must, first ofall, give up your service with my father. the three years are past,and you are at liberty to go. You will go off with your six bushelsof money, to the kingdom that I have told you of, and there enter theservice of the king. When the time comes near for his debt becoming dueyou will be able to notice by his manner that he is ill at ease. Youshall then say to him that you know well enough what it is that isweighing upon him that it is the debt which he owes to the troll andcannot pay, but that you can lend him the money. The amount is sixbushels just what you have. You shall, however, only lend them tohim on condition that you may accompany him when he goes to make thepayment, and that you then have permission to run before him as a fool.When you arrive at the troll's abode, you must perform all kinds offoolish tricks, and see that you break a whole lot of his windows, anddo all other damage that you can. My father will then get very angry,and as the king must answer for what his fool does he will sentence him,even although he has paid his debt, either to answer three questions orto lose his life. The first question my father will ask will be, "Whereis my daughter?" Then you shall step forward and answer "She is at thebottom of the sea." He will then ask you whether you can recognise her,and to this you will answer "Yes." Then he will bring forward a wholetroop of women, and cause them to pass before you, in order that you maypick out the one that you take for his daughter. You will not be ableto recognise me at all, and therefore I will catch hold of you as I gopast, so that you can notice it, and you must then make haste to catchme and hold me fast. You have then answered his first question. His nextquestion will be, "Where is my heart?" You shall then step forward againand answer, "It is in a fish." "Do you know that fish?" he will say,and you will again answer "Yes." He will then cause all kinds of fishto come before you, and you shall choose between them. I shall take goodcare to keep by your side, and when the right fish comes I will give youa little push, and with that you will seize the fish and cut it up. Thenall will be over with the troll. he will ask no more questions, and weshall be free to wed.'When the youth had got all these directions as to what he had to do whenhe got ashore again the next thing was to remember the words which thetroll said when he changed him from a human being to an animal. butthese he had forgotten, and the girl did not know them either. He wentabout all day in despair, and thought and thought, but he could notremember what they sounded like. During the night he could not sleep,until towards morning he fell into a slumber, and all at once it flashedupon him what the troll used to say. He made haste to repeat the words,and at the same moment he became a fish again and slipped out into thesea. Immediately after this he was called upon, and swam through the seaup the river to where the troll stood on the bank and restored him tohuman shape with the same words as before.'Well, how do you like to be a fish?' asked the troll.It was what he had liked best of all, said the youth, and that was nolie, as everybody can guess.The troll then showed him the three bushels of money which he had earnedduring the past year. they stood beside the other three, and all the sixnow belonged to him.'Perhaps you will serve me for another year yet,' said the troll, 'andyou will get six bushels of money for it. that makes twelve in all, andthat is a pretty penny.''No,' said the youth. he thought he had done enough, and was anxious togo to some other place to serve, and learn other people's ways. but hewould, perhaps, come back to the troll some other time.The troll said that he would always be welcome. he had served himfaithfully for the three years they had agreed upon, and he could makeno objections to his leaving now.The youth then got his six bushels of money, and with these he betookhimself straight to the kingdom which his sweetheart had told him of.He got his money buried in a lonely spot close to the king's palace, andthen went in there and asked to be taken into service. He obtained hisrequest, and was taken on as stableman, to tend the king's horses.Some time passed, and he noticed how the king always went aboutsorrowing and grieving, and was never glad or happy. One day the kingcame into the stable, where there was no one present except the youth,who said straight out to him that, with his majesty's permission, hewished to ask him why he was so sorrowful.'It's of no use speaking about that,' said the king. 'you cannot helpme, at any rate.''You don't know about that,' said the youth. ' I know well enough whatit is that lies so heavy on your mind, and I know also of a plan to getthe money paid.'This was quite another case, and the king had more talk with thestableman, who said that he could easily lend the king the six bushelsof money, but would only do it on condition that he should be allowed toaccompany the king when he went to pay the debt, and that he shouldthen be dressed like the king's court fool, and run before him. He wouldcause some trouble, for which the king would be severely spoken to, buthe would answer for it that no harm would befall him.The king gladly agreed to all that the youth proposed, and it was nowhigh time for them to set out.When they came to the troll's dwelling it was no longer in the bank, buton the top of this there stood a large castle which the youth had neverseen before. The troll could, in fact, make it visible or invisible,just as he pleased, and, knowing as much as he did of the troll's magicarts, the youth was not at all surprised at this.When they came near to this castle, which looked as if it was of pureglass, the youth ran on in front as the king's fool. Heran sometimesfacing forwards, sometimes backwards, stood sometimes on his head, andsometimes on his feet, and he dashed in pieces so many of the troll'sbig glass windows and doors that it was something awful to see, andoverturned everything he could, and made a fearful disturbance.The troll came rushing out, and was so angry and furious, and abused theking with all his might for bringing such a wretched fool with him, ashe was sure that he could not pay the least bit of all the damage thathad been done when he could not even pay off his old debt.The fool, however, spoke up, and said that he could do so quite easily,and the king then came forward with the six bushels of money which theyouth had lent him. They were measured and found to be correct. This thetroll had not reckoned on, but he could make no objection against it.The old debt was honestly paid, and the king got his bond back again.But there still remained all the damage that had been done that day, andthe king had nothing with which to pay for this. The troll, therefore,sentenced the king, either to answer three questions that he would putto him, or have his head taken off, as was agreed on in the old bond.There was nothing else to be done than to try to answer the troll'sriddles. The fool then stationed himself just by the king's side whilethe troll came forward with his questions. He first asked, 'Where is mydaughter?'The fool spoke up and said, 'She is at the bottom of the sea.''How do you know that?' said the troll.'The little fish saw it,' said the fool.'Would you know her?' said the troll.'Yes, bring her forward,' said the fool.The troll made a whole crowd of women go past them, one after the other,but all these were nothing but shadows and deceptions. Amongst the verylast was the troll's real daughter, who pinched the fool as she wentpast him to make him aware of her presence. He thereupon caught herround the waist and held her fast, and the troll had to admit that hisfirst riddle was solved.Then the troll asked again: 'Where is my heart?''It is in a fish,' said the fool.'Would you know that fish?' said the troll.'Yes, bring it forward,' said the fool.Then all the fishes came swimming past them, and meanwhile the troll'sdaughter stood just by the youth's side. When at last the right fishcame swimming along she gave him a nudge, and he seized it at once,drove his knife into it, and split it up, took the heart out of it, andcut it through the middle.At the same moment the troll fell dead and turned into pieces of flint.With that a,ll the bonds that the troll had bound were broken. all thewild beasts and birds which he had caught and hid under the ground werefree now, and dispersed themselves in the woods and in the air.The youth and his sweetheart entered the castle, which was now theirs,and held their wedding. and all the kings roundabout, who had beenin the troll's debt, and were now out of it, came to the wedding, andsaluted the youth as their emperor, and he ruled over them all, and keptpeace between them, and lived in his castle with his beautiful empressin great joy and magnificence. And if they have not died since they areliving there to this day.