(14) From Les fees illustres.In very ancient times there lived a King, whose power lay not only inthe vast extent of his dominions, but also in the magic secrets of whichhe was master. After spending the greater part of his early youth inpleasure, he met a Princess of such remarkable beauty that he at onceasked her hand in marriage, and, having obtained it, considered himselfthe happiest of men.After a year's time a son was born, worthy in every way of suchdistinguished parents, and much admired by the whole Court. As soon asthe Queen thought him strong enough for a journey she set out with himsecretly to visit her Fairy godmother. I said secretly, because theFairy had warned the Queen that the King was a magician. and as fromtime immemorial there had been a standing feud between the Fairies andthe Wizards, he might not have approved of his wife's visit.The Fairy godmother, who took the deepest interest in all the Queen'sconcerns, and who was much pleased with the little Prince, endowed himwith the power of pleasing everybody from his cradle, as well as witha wonderful ease in learning everything which could help to make hima perfectly accomplished Prince. Accordingly, to the delight of histeachers, he made the most rapid progress in his education, constantlysurpassing everyone's expectations. Before he was many years old,however, he had the great sorrow of losing his mother, whose last wordswere to advise him never to undertake anything of importance withoutconsulting the Fairy under whose protection she had placed him.The Prince's grief at the death of his mother was great, but itwas nothing compared to that of the King, his father, who was quiteinconsolable for the loss of his dear wife. Neither time nor reasonseemed to lighten his sorrow, and the sight of all the familiar facesand things about him only served to remind him of his loss. He thereforeresolved to travel for change, and by means of his magic art was ableto visit every country he came to see under different shapes, returningevery few weeks to the place where he had left a few followers.Having travelled from land to land in this fashion without findinganything to rivet his attention, it occurred to him to take the form ofan eagle, and in this shape he flew across many countries and arrivedat length in a new and lovely spot, where the air seemed filled with thescent of jessamine and orange flowers with which the ground was thicklyplanted. Attracted by the sweet perfume he flew lower, and perceivedsome large and beautiful gardens filled with the rarest flowers, andwith fountains throwing up their clear waters into the air in a hundreddifferent shapes. A wide stream flowed through the garden, and on itfloated richly ornamented barges and gondolas filled with people dressedin the most elegant manner and covered with jewels.In one of these barges sat the Queen of that country with her onlydaughter, a maiden more beautiful than the Day Star, and attended bythe ladies of the Court. No more exquisitely lovely mortal was ever seenthan this Princess, and it needed all an eagle's strength of sight toprevent the King being hopelessly dazzled. He perched on the top of alarge orange tree, whence he was able to survey the scene and to gaze atpleasure on the Princess's charms.Now, an eagle with a King's heart in his breast is apt to be bold,and accordingly he instantly made up his mind to carry off the lovelydamsel, feeling sure that having once seen her he could not live withouther.He waited till he saw her in the act of stepping ashore, when, suddenlyswooping down, he carried her off before her equerry in attendance hadadvanced to offer her his hand. The Princess, on finding herself in aneagle's talons, uttered the most heart breaking shrieks and cries. buther captor, though touched by her distress, would not abandon his lovelyprey, and continued to fly through the air too fast to allow of hissaying anything to comfort her.At length, when he thought they had reached a safe distance, he beganto lower his flight, and gradually descending to earth, depositedhis burden in a flowery meadow. He then entreated her pardon for hisviolence, and told her that he was about to carry her to a great kingdomover which he ruled, and where he desired she should rule with him,adding many tender and consoling expressions.For some time the Princess remained speechless. but recovering herselfa little, she burst into a flood of tears. The King, much moved, said,'Adorable Princess, dry your tears. I implore you. My only wish is tomake you the happiest person in the world.''If you speak truth, my lord,' replied the Princess, 'restore to me theliberty you have deprived me of. Otherwise I can only look on you as myworst enemy.'The King retorted that her opposition filled him with despair, but thathe hoped to carry her to a place where all around would respect her, andwhere every pleasure would surround her. So saying, he seized her oncemore, and in spite of all her cries he rapidly bore her off to theneighbourhood of his capital. Here he gently placed her on a lawn, andas he did so she saw a magnificent palace spring up at her feet. Thearchitecture was imposing, and in the interior the rooms were handsomeand furnished in the best possible taste.The Princess, who expected to be quite alone, was pleased at findingherself surrounded by a number of pretty girls, all anxious to wait onher, whilst a brilliantly coloured parrot said the most agreeable thingsin the world.On arriving at this palace the King had resumed his own form, andthough no longer young, he might well have pleased any other than thisPrincess, who had been so prejudiced against him by his violence thatshe could only regard him with feelings of hatred, which she was atno pains to conceal. The King hoped, however, that time might not onlysoften her anger, but accustom her to his sight. He took the precautionof surrounding the palace with a dense cloud, and then hastened to hisCourt, where his prolonged absence was causing much anxiety.The Prince and all the courtiers were delighted to see their belovedKing again, but they had to submit themselves to more frequent absencesthan ever on his part. He made business a pretext for shutting himselfup in his study, but it was really in order to spend the time with thePrincess, who remained inflexible.Not being able to imagine what could be the cause of so much obstinacythe King began to fear, lest, in spite of all his precautions, she mighthave heard of the charms of the Prince his son, whose goodness, youthand beauty, made him adored at Court. This idea made him horriblyuneasy, and he resolved to remove the cause of his fears by sending thePrince on his travels escorted by a magnificent retinue.The Prince, after visiting several Courts, arrived at the one where thelost Princess was still deeply mourned. The King and Queen received himmost graciously, and some festivities were revived to do him honour.One day when the Prince was visiting the Queen in her own apartments hewas much struck by a most beautiful portrait. He eagerly inquired whoseit was, and the Queen, with many tears, told him it was all that wasleft her of her beloved daughter, who had suddenly been carried off, sheknew neither where nor how.The Prince was deeply moved, and vowed that he would search the worldfor the Princess, and take no rest till he had found and restored her toher mother's arms. The Queen assured him of her eternal gratitude,and promised, should he succeed, to give him her daughter in marriage,together with all the estates she herself owned.The Prince, far more attracted by the thoughts of possessing thePrincess than her promised dower, set forth in his quest after takingleave of the King and Queen, the latter giving him a miniature of herdaughter which she was in the habit of wearing. His first act wasto seek the Fairy under whose protection he had been placed, and heimplored her to give him all the assistance of her art and counsel inthis important matter.After listening attentively to the whole adventure, the Fairy askedfor time to consult her books. After due consideration she informed thePrince that the object of his search was not far distant, but that itwas too difficult for him to attempt to enter the enchanted palace whereshe was, as the King his father had surrounded it with a thick cloud,and that the only expedient she could think of would be to gainpossession of the Princess's parrot. This, she added, did notappear impossible, as it often flew about to some distance in theneighbourhood.Having told the Prince all this, the Fairy went out in hopes of seeingthe parrot, and soon returned with the bird in her hand. She promptlyshut it up in a cage, and, touching the Prince with her wand,transformed him into an exactly similar parrot. after which, sheinstructed him how to reach the Princess.The Prince reached the palace in safety, but was so dazzled at first bythe Princess's beauty, which far surpassed his expectations, that hewas quite dumb for a time. The Princess was surprised and anxious, andfearing the parrot, who was her greatest comfort, had fallen ill, shetook him in her hand and caressed him. This soon reassured the Prince,and encouraged him to play his part well, and he began to say a thousandagreeable things which charmed the Princess.Presently the King appeared, and the parrot noticed with joy how muchhe was disliked. As soon as the King left, the Princess retired to herdressing room, the parrot flew after her and overheard her lamentationsat the continued persecutions of the King, who had pressed her toconsent to their marriage. The parrot said so many clever and tenderthings to comfort her that she began to doubt whether this could indeedbe her own parrot.When he saw her well disposed towards him, he exclaimed: 'Madam, Ihave a most important secret to confide to you, and I beg you not to bealarmed by what I am about to say. I am here on behalf of the Queen yourmother, with the object of delivering your Highness. to prove which,behold this portrait which she gave me herself.' So saying he drew forththe miniature from under his wing. The Princess's surprise was great,but after what she had seen and heard it was impossible not to indulgein hope, for she had recognised the likeness of herself which her motheralways wore.The parrot, finding she was not much alarmed, told her who he was, allthat her mother had promised him and the help he had already receivedfrom a Fairy who had assured him that she would give him means totransport the Princess to her mother's arms.When he found her listening attentively to him, he implored the Princessto allow him to resume his natural shape. She did not speak, so he drewa feather from his wing, and she beheld before her a Prince of suchsurpassing beauty that it was impossible not to hope that she might oweher liberty to so charming a person.Meantime the Fairy had prepared a chariot, to which she harnessed twopowerful eagles. then placing the cage, with the parrot in it,she charged the bird to conduct it to the window of the Princess'sdressing room. This was done in a few minutes, and the Princess,stepping into the chariot with the Prince, was delighted to find herparrot again.As they rose through the air the Princess remarked a figure mounted onan eagle's back flying in front of the chariot. She was rather alarmed,but the Prince reassured her, telling her it was the good Fairy towhom she owed so much, and who was now conducting her in safety to hermother.That same morning the King woke suddenly from a troubled sleep. Hehad dreamt that the Princess was being carried off from him, and,transforming himself into an eagle, he flew to the palace. When hefailed to find her he flew into a terrible rage, and hastened home toconsult his books, by which means he discovered that it was his sonwho had deprived him of this precious treasure. Immediately he took theshape of a harpy, and, filled with rage, was determined to devour hisson, and even the Princess too, if only he could overtake them.He set out at full speed. but he started too late, and was furtherdelayed by a strong wind which the Fairy raised behind the young coupleso as to baffle any pursuit.You may imagine the rapture with which the Queen received the daughtershe had given up for lost, as well as the amiable Prince who had rescuedher. The Fairy entered with them, and warned the Queen that the WizardKing would shortly arrive, infuriated by his loss, and that nothingcould preserve the Prince and Princess from his rage and magic unlessthey were actually married.The Queen hastened to inform the King her husband, and the wedding tookplace on the spot.As the ceremony was completed the Wizard King arrived. His despair atbeing so late bewildered him so entirely that he appeared in his naturalform and attempted to sprinkle some black liquid over the bride andbridegroom, which was intended to kill them, but the Fairy stretched outher wand and the liquid dropped on the Magician himself. He fell downsenseless, and the Princess's father, deeply offended at the cruelrevenge which had been attempted, ordered him to be removed and lockedup in prison.Now as magicians lose all their power as soon as they are in prison, theKing felt himself much embarrassed at being thus at the mercy ofthose he had so greatly offended. The Prince implored and obtained hisfather's pardon, and the prison doors were opened.No sooner was this done than the Wizard King was seen in the air underthe form of some unknown bird, exclaiming as he flew off that he wouldnever forgive either his son or the Fairy the cruel wrong they had donehim.Everyone entreated the Fairy to settle in the kingdom where she now was,to which she consented. She built herself a magnificent palace, to whichshe transported her books and fairy secrets, and where she enjoyed thesight of the perfect happiness she had helped to bestow on the entireroyal family.