(20) From the Iroquois.Once upon a time there were a man and his wife who lived in the forest,very far from the rest of the tribe. Very often they spent the day inhunting together, but after a while the wife found that she had so manythings to do that she was obliged to stay at home. so he went alone,though he found that when his wife was not with him he never had anyluck. One day, when he was away hunting, the woman fell ill, and in afew days she died.Her husband grieved bitterly, and buried her in the house where she hadpassed her life. but as the time went on he felt so lonely without herthat he made a wooden doll about her height and size for company, anddressed it in her clothes. He seated it in front of the fire, and triedto think he had his wife back again. The next day he went out to hunt,and when he came home the first thing he did was to go up to the dolland brush off some of the ashes from the fire which had fallen on itsface. But he was very busy now, for he had to cook and mend, besidesgetting food, for there was no one to help him. And so a whole yearpassed away.At the end of that time he came back from hunting one night and foundsome wood by the door and a fire within. The next night there was notonly wood and fire, but a piece of meat in the kettle, nearly ready foreating. He searched all about to see who could have done this, but couldfind no one. The next time he went to hunt he took care not to go far,and came in quite early. And while he was still a long way off he saw awoman going into the house with wood on her shoulders. So he made haste,and opened the door quickly, and instead of the wooden doll, his wifesat in front of the fire.Then she spoke to him and said, 'The Great Spirit felt sorry for you,because you would not be comforted, so he let me come back to you, butyou must not stretch out your hand to touch me till we have seen therest of our people. If you do, I shall die.'So the man listened to her words, and the woman dwelt there, and broughtthe wood and kindled the fire, till one day her husband said to her, 'Itis now two years since you died. Let us now go back to our tribe. Thenyou will be well, and I can touch you.'And with that he prepared food for the journey, a string of deer's fleshfor her to carry, and one for himself. and so they started. Now the campof the tribe was distant six days' journey, and when they were yet oneday's journey off it began to snow, and they felt weary and longed forrest. Therefore they made a fire, cooked some food, and spread out theirskins to sleep.Then the heart of the man was greatly stirred, and he stretched out hisarms to his wife, but she waved her hands and said, 'We have seen no oneyet. it is too soon.'But he would not listen to her, and caught her to him, and behold! hewas clasping the wooden doll. And when he saw it was the doll he pushedit from him in his misery and rushed away to the camp, and told them allhis story. And some doubted, and they went back with him to the placewhere he and his wife had stopped to rest, and there lay the doll, andbesides, they saw in the snow the steps of two people, and the foot ofone was like the foot of the doll. And the man grieved sore all the daysof his life.