There was a man who once knew many stories, but they had slippedaway from him so he said. The Story that used to visit him of its ownaccord no longer came and knocked at his door. And why did it comeno longer? It is true enough that for days and years the man had notthought of it, had not expected it to come and knock. and if he hadexpected it, it would certainly not have come. for without there waswar, and within was the care and sorrow that war brings with it.The stork and the swallows came back from their long journey,for they thought of no danger. and, behold, when they arrived, thenest was burnt, the habitations of men were burnt, the hedges were allin disorder, and everything seemed gone, and the enemy's horses werestamping in the old graves. Those were hard, gloomy times, but theycame to an end.And now they were past and gone so people said. yet no Story cameand knocked at the door, or gave any tidings of its presence."I suppose it must be dead, or gone away with many otherthings," said the man.But the story never dies. And more than a whole year went by,and he longed oh, so very much! for the Story."I wonder if the Story will ever come back again and knock?"And he remembered it so well in all the various forms in whichit had come to him, sometimes young and charming, like springitself, sometimes as a beautiful maiden, with a wreath of thyme in herhair, and a beechen branch in her hand, and with eyes that gleamedlike deep woodland lakes in the bright sunshine.Sometimes it had come to him in the guise of a peddler, and hadopened its box and let silver ribbon come fluttering out, withverses and inscriptions of old remembrances.But it was most charming of all when it came as an oldgrandmother, with silvery hair, and such large, sensible eyes. Sheknew so well how to tell about the oldest times, long before theprincesses spun with the golden spindles, and the dragons layoutside the castles, guarding them. She told with such an air oftruth, that black spots danced before the eyes of all who heard her,and the floor became black with human blood. terrible to see and tohear, and yet so entertaining, because such a long time had passedsince it all happened."Will it ever knock at my door again?" said the man, and hegazed at the door, so that black spots came before his eyes and uponthe floor. he did not know if it was blood, or mourning crape from thedark heavy days.And as he sat thus, the thought came upon him whether the Storymight not have hidden itself, like the princess in the old tale. Andhe would now go in search of it. if he found it, it would beam innew splendor, lovelier than ever."Who knows? Perhaps it has hidden itself in the straw thatbalances on the margin of the well. Carefully, carefully! Perhaps itlies hidden in a certain flower that flower in one of the great bookson the book shelf."And the man went and opened one of the newest books, to gaininformation on this point. but there was no flower to be found.There he read about Holger Danske. and the man read that the talehad been invented and put together by a monk in France, that it wasa romance, "translated into Danish and printed in that language." thatHolger Danske had never really lived, and consequently could nevercome again, as we have sung, and have been so glad to believe. AndWilliam Tell was treated just like Holger Danske. These were allonly myths nothing on which we could depend. and yet it is allwritten in a very learned book."Well, I shall believe what I believe!" said the man. "There growsno plantain where no foot has trod."And he closed the book and put it back in its place, and went tothe fresh flowers at the window. Perhaps the Story might have hiddenitself in the red tulips, with the golden yellow edges, or in thefresh rose, or in the beaming camellia. The sunshine lay among theflowers, but no Story.The flowers which had been here in the dark troublous time hadbeen much more beautiful. but they had been cut off, one afteranother, to be woven into wreaths and placed in coffins, and theflag had waved over them! Perhaps the Story had been buried with theflowers. but then the flowers would have known of it, and the coffinwould have heard it, and every little blade of grass that shot forthwould have told of it. The Story never dies.Perhaps it has been here once, and has knocked. but who had eyesor ears for it in those times? People looked darkly, gloomily, andalmost angrily at the sunshine of spring, at the twittering birds, andall the cheerful green. the tongue could not even bear the oldmerry, popular songs, and they were laid in the coffin with so muchthat our heart held dear. The Story may have knocked without obtaininga hearing. there was none to bid it welcome, and so it may have goneaway."I will go forth and seek it. Out in the country! out in the wood!and on the open sea beach!"Out in the country lies an old manor house, with red walls,pointed gables, and a red flag that floats on the tower. Thenightingale sings among the finely fringed beech leaves, looking atthe blooming apple trees of the garden, and thinking that they bearroses. Here the bees are mightily busy in the summer time, and hoverround their queen with their humming song. The autumn has much to tellof the wild chase, of the leaves of the trees, and of the races of menthat are passing away together. The wild swans sing at Christmas timeon the open water, while in the old hall the guests by the firesidegladly listen to songs and to old legends.Down into the old part of the garden, where the great avenue ofwild chestnut trees lures the wanderer to tread its shades, went theman who was in search of the Story. for here the wind had oncemurmured something to him of "Waldemar Daa and his Daughters." TheDryad in the tree, who was the Story mother herself, had here told himthe "Dream of the Old Oak Tree." Here, in the time of the ancestralmother, had stood clipped hedges, but now only ferns and stingingnettles grew there, hiding the scattered fragments of old sculpturedfigures. the moss is growing in their eyes, but they can see as wellas ever, which was more than the man could do who was in search of theStory, for he could not find that. Where could it be?The crows flew past him by hundreds across the old trees, andscreamed, "Krah! da! Krah! da!"And he went out of the garden and over the grass plot of the yard,into the alder grove. there stood a little six sided house, with apoultry yard and a duck yard. In the middle of the room sat the oldwoman who had the management of the whole, and who knew accuratelyabout every egg that was laid, and about every chicken that couldcreep out of an egg. But she was not the Story of which the man was insearch. that she could attest with a Christian certificate ofbaptism and of vaccination that lay in her drawer.Without, not far from the house, is a hill covered withred thorn and broom. Here lies an old grave stone, which was broughthere many years ago from the churchyard of the provincial town, aremembrance of one of the most honored councillors of the place. hiswife and his five daughters, all with folded hands and stiff ruffs,stand round him. One could look at them so long, that it had an effectupon the thoughts, and these reacted upon the stones, as if theywere telling of old times. at least it had been so with the man whowas in search of the Story.As he came nearer, he noticed a living butterfly sitting on theforehead of the sculptured councillor. The butterfly flapped itswings, and flew a little bit farther, and then returned fatigued tosit upon the grave stone, as if to point out what grew there.Four leaved shamrocks grew there. there were seven specimens closeto each other. When fortune comes, it comes in a heap. He pluckedthe shamrocks and put them in his pocket."Fortune is as good as red gold, but a new charming story would bebetter still," thought the man. but he could not find it here.And the sun went down, round and large. the meadow was coveredwith vapor. The moor woman was at her brewing.It was evening. He stood alone in his room, and looked out uponthe sea, over the meadow, over moor and coast. The moon shonebright, a mist was over the meadow, making it look like a greatlake. and, indeed, it was once so, as the legend tells and in themoonlight the eye realizes these myths.Then the man thought of what he had been reading in the town, thatWilliam Tell and Holger Danske never really lived, but yet live inpopular story, like the lake yonder, a living evidence for such myths.Yes, Holger Danske will return again!As he stood thus and thought, something beat quite stronglyagainst the window. Was it a bird, a bat or an owl? Those are notlet in, even when they knock. The window flew open of itself, and anold woman looked in at the man."What's your pleasure?" said he. "Who are you? You're looking inat the first floor window. Are you standing on a ladder?""You have a four leaved shamrock in your pocket," she replied."Indeed, you have seven, and one of them is a six leaved one.""Who are you?" asked the man again."The Moor woman," she replied. "The Moor woman who brews. I was atit. The bung was in the cask, but one of the little moor imps pulledit out in his mischief, and flung it up into the yard, where it beatagainst the window. and now the beer's running out of the cask, andthat won't do good to anybody.""Pray tell me some more!" said the man."Yes, wait a little," answered the Moor woman. "I've somethingelse to do just now." And she was gone.The man was going to shut the window, when the woman already stoodbefore him again."Now it's done," she said. "but I shall have half the beer to brewover again to morrow, if the weather is suitable. Well, what haveyou to ask me? I've come back, for I always keep my word, and you haveseven four leaved shamrocks in your pocket, and one of them is asix leaved one. That inspires respect, for that's an order thatgrows beside the sandy way. but that every one does not find. Whathave you to ask me? Don't stand there like a ridiculous oaf, for Imust go back again directly to my bung and my cask."And the man asked about the Story, and inquired if theMoor woman had met it in her journeyings."By the big brewing vat!" exclaimed the woman, "haven't you gotstories enough? I really believe that most people have enough of them.Here are other things to take notice of, other things to examine. Eventhe children have gone beyond that. Give the little boy a cigar, andthe little girl a new crinoline. they like that much better. To listento stories! No, indeed, there are more important things to be donehere, and other things to notice!""What do you mean by that?" asked the man, "and what do you knowof the world? You don't see anything but frogs and Will o' the Wisps!""Yes, beware of the Will o' the Wisps," said the Moor woman,"for they're out they're let loose that's what we must talk about!Come to me in the moor, where my presence is necessary, and I willtell you all about it. but you must make haste, and come while yourseven four leaved shamrocks, for which one has six leaves, are stillfresh, and the moon stands high!"And the Moor woman was gone.It struck twelve in the town, and before the last stroke haddied away, the man was out in the yard, out in the garden, and stoodin the meadow. The mist had vanished, and the Moor woman stopped herbrewing."You've been a long time coming!" said the Moor woman. "Witchesget forward faster than men, and I'm glad that I belong to the witchfolk!""What have you to say to me now?" asked the man. "Is it anythingabout the Story?""Can you never get beyond asking about that?" retorted the woman."Can you tell me anything about the poetry of the future?" resumedthe man."Don't get on your stilts," said the crone, "and I'll answeryou. You think of nothing but poetry, and only ask about that Story,as if she were the lady of the whole troop. She's the oldest of usall, but she takes precedence of the youngest. I know her well. I'vebeen young, too, and she's no chicken now. I was once quite a prettyelf maiden, and have danced in my time with the others in themoonlight, and have heard the nightingale, and have gone into theforest and met the Story maiden, who was always to be found out there,running about. Sometimes she took up her night's lodging in ahalf blown tulip, or in a field flower. sometimes she would slipinto the church, and wrap herself in the mourning crape that hung downfrom the candles on the altar.""You are capitally well informed," said the man."I ought at least to know as much as you," answered theMoor woman. "Stories and poetry yes, they're like two yards of thesame piece of stuff. they can go and lie down where they like, and onecan brew all their prattle, and have it all the better and cheaper.You shall have it from me for nothing. I have a whole cupboard full ofpoetry in bottles. It makes essences. and that's the best ofit bitter and sweet herbs. I have everything that people want ofpoetry, in bottles, so that I can put a little on my handkerchief,on holidays, to smell.""Why, these are wonderful things that you're telling!" said theman. "You have poetry in bottles?""More than you can require," said the woman. "I suppose you knowthe history of 'the Girl who Trod on the Loaf, so that she might notsoil her shoes'? That has been written, and printed too.""I told that story myself," said the man."Yes, then you must know it. and you must know also that thegirl sank into the earth directly, to the Moor woman, just as OldBogey's grandmother was paying her morning visit to inspect thebrewery. She saw the girl gliding down, and asked to have her as aremembrance of her visit, and got her too. while I received apresent that's of no use to me a travelling druggist's shop awhole cupboard full of poetry in bottles. Grandmother told me wherethe cupboard was to be placed, and there it's standing still. Justlook! You've your seven four leaved shamrocks in your pocket, one ofwhich is a six leaved one, and so you will be able to see it."And really in the midst of the moor lay something like a greatknotted block of alder, and that was the old grandmother's cupboard.The Moor woman said that this was always open to her and to everyone in the land, if they only knew where the cupboard stood. Itcould be opened either at the front or at the back, and at everyside and corner a perfect work of art, and yet only an old alderstump in appearance. The poets of all lands, and especially those ofour own country, had been arranged here. the spirit of them had beenextracted, refined, criticised and renovated, and then stored up inbottles. With what may be called great aptitude, if it was notgenius the grandmother had taken as it were the flavor of this andof that poet, and had added a little devilry, and then corked up thebottles for use during all future times."Pray let me see," said the man."Yes, but there are more important things to hear," replied theMoor woman."But now we are at the cupboard!" said the man. And he lookedin. "Here are bottles of all sizes. What is in this one? and what inthat one yonder?""Here is what they call may balm," replied the woman. "I havenot tried it myself. But I have not yet told you the 'moreimportant' thing you were to hear. THE WILL O' THE WISP'S IN THE TOWN!That's of much more consequence than poetry and stories. I ought,indeed, to hold my tongue. but there must be a necessity a fate asomething that sticks in my throat, and that wants to come out. Takecare, you mortals!""I don't understand a word of all this!" cried the man."Be kind enough to seat yourself on that cupboard," she retorted,"but take care you don't fall through and break the bottles you knowwhat's inside of them. I must tell of the great event. It occurred nolonger ago than the day before yesterday. It did not happen earlier.It has now three hundred and sixty three days to run about. I supposeyou know how many days there are in a year?"And this is what the Moor woman told:"There was a great commotion yesterday out here in the marsh!There was a christening feast! A little Will o' the Wisp was bornhere in fact, twelve of them were born all together. and they havepermission, if they choose to use it, to go abroad among men, and tomove about and command among them, just as if they were bornmortals. That was a great event in the marsh, and accordingly allthe Will o' the Wisps, male and female, went dancing like littlelights across the moor. There are some of them of the dog species, butthose are not worth mentioning. I sat there on the cupboard, and hadall the twelve little new born Will o' the Wisps upon my lap. Theyshone like glow worms. they already began to hop, and increased insize every moment, so that before a quarter of an hour had elapsed,each of them looked just as large as his father or his uncle. Now,it's an old established regulation and favor, that when the moonstands just as it did yesterday, and the wind blows just as it blewthen, it is allowed and accorded to all Will o' the Wisps that is, toall those who are born at that minute of time to become mortals,and individually to exert their power for the space of one year."The Will o' the Wisp may run about in the country and through theworld, if it is not afraid of falling into the sea, or of beingblown out by a heavy storm. It can enter into a person and speak forhim, and make all the movements it pleases. The Will o' the Wisp maytake whatever form he likes, of man or woman, and can act in theirspirit and in their disguise in such a way that he can effect whateverhe wishes to do. But he must manage, in the course of the year, tolead three hundred and sixty five people into a bad way, and in agrand style, too. To lead them away from the right and the truth.and then he reaches the highest point. Such a Will o' the Wisp canattain to the honor of being a runner before the devil's statecoach. and then he'll wear clothes of fiery yellow, and breatheforth flames out of his throat. That's enough to make a simpleWill o' the Wisp smack his lips. But there's some danger in this,and a great deal of work for a Will o' the Wisp who aspires to play sodistinguished a part. If the eyes of the man are opened to what he is,and if the man can then blow him away, it's all over with him, andhe must come back into the marsh. or if, before the year is up, theWill o' the Wisp is seized with a longing to see his family, and soreturns to it and gives the matter up, it is over with him likewise,and he can no longer burn clear, and soon becomes extinguished, andcannot be lit up again. and when the year has elapsed, and he hasnot led three hundred and sixty five people away from the truth andfrom all that is grand and noble, he is condemned to be imprisonedin decayed wood, and to lie glimmering there, without being able tomove. and that's the most terrible punishment that can be inflicted ona lively Will o' the Wisp."Now, all this I know, and all this I told to the twelve littleWill o' the Wisps whom I had on my lap, and who seemed quite crazywith joy."I told them that the safest and most convenient course was togive up the honor, and do nothing at all. but the little flameswould not agree to this, and already fancied themselves clad infiery yellow clothes, breathing flames from their throats."'Stay with us,' said some of the older ones."'Carry on your sport with mortals,' said the others."'The mortals are drying up our meadows. they've taken todraining. What will our successors do?'"'We want to flame. we will flame flame!' cried the new bornWill o'the Wisps."And thus the affair was settled."And now a ball was given, a minute long. it could not well beshorter. The little elf maidens whirled round three times with therest, that they might not appear proud, but they preferred dancingwith one another."And now the sponsors' gifts were presented, and presents werethrown them. These presents flew like pebbles across the sea water.Each of the elf maidens gave a little piece of her veil."'Take that,' they said, 'and then you'll know the higher dance,the most difficult turns and twists that is to say, if you shouldfind them necessary. You'll know the proper deportment, and then youcan show yourself in the very pick of society.'"The night raven taught each of the young Will o' the Wisps tosay, 'Goo goo good,' and to say it in the right place. and that's agreat gift which brings its own reward."The owl and the stork but they said it was not worth mentioning,and so we won't mention it."King Waldemar's wild chase was just then rushing over the moor,and when the great lords heard of the festivities that were goingon, they sent a couple of handsome dogs, which hunt on the spoor ofthe wind, as a present. and these might carry two or three of theWill o' the Wisps. A couple of old Alpas, spirits who occupythemselves with Alp pressing, were also at the feast. and from thesethe young Will o' the Wisps learned the art of slipping throughevery key hole, as if the door stood open before them. These Alpasoffered to carry the youngsters to the town, with which they were wellacquainted. They usually rode through the atmosphere on their own backhair, which is fastened into a knot, for they love a hard seat. butnow they sat sideways on the wild hunting dogs, took the youngWill o' the Wisps in their laps, who wanted to go into the town tomislead and entice mortals, and, whisk! away they were. Now, this iswhat happened last night. To day the Will o' the Wisps are in thetown, and have taken the matter in hand but where and how? Ah, canyou tell me that? Still, I've a lightning conductor in my great toe,and that will always tell me something.""Why, this is a complete story," exclaimed the man."Yes, but it is only the beginning," replied the woman. "Can youtell me how the Will o' the Wisps deport themselves, and how theybehave? and in what shapes they have aforetime appeared and led peopleinto crooked paths?""I believe," replied the man, "that one could tell quite a romanceabout the Will o' the Wisps, in twelve parts. or, better still, onemight make quite a popular play of them.""You might write that," said the woman, "but it's best let alone.""Yes, that's better and more agreeable," the man replied, "forthen we shall escape from the newspapers, and not be tied up bythem, which is just as uncomfortable as for a Will o' the Wisp tolie in decaying wood, to have to gleam, and not to be able to stir.""I don't care about it either way," cried the woman. "Let the restwrite, those who can, and those who cannot likewise. I'll grant you anold bung from my cask that will open the cupboard where poetry'skept in bottles, and you may take from that whatever may be wanting.But you, my good man, seem to have blotted your hands sufficientlywith ink, and to have come to that age of satiety that you need not berunning about every year for stories, especially as there are muchmore important things to be done. You must have understood what isgoing on?""The Will o' the Wisp is in town," said the man. "I've heard it,and I have understood it. But what do you think I ought to do? Ishould be thrashed if I were to go to the people and say, 'Look,yonder goes a Will o' the Wisp in his best clothes!'"They also go in undress," replied the woman. "TheWill o' the Wisp can assume all kinds of forms, and appear in everyplace. He goes into the church, but not for the sake of the service.and perhaps he may enter into one or other of the priests. He speaksin the Parliament, not for the benefit of the country, but only forhimself. He's an artist with the color pot as well as in thetheatre. but when he gets all the power into his own hands, then thepot's empty! I chatter and chatter, but it must come out, what'ssticking in my throat, to the disadvantage of my own family. But Imust now be the woman that will save a good many people. It is notdone with my good will, or for the sake of a medal. I do the mostinsane things I possibly can, and then I tell a poet about it, andthus the whole town gets to know of it directly.""The town will not take that to heart," observed the man. "thatwill not disturb a single person. for they will all think I'm onlytelling them a story if I say, 'The Will o' the Wisp is in the town,says the Moor woman. Take care of yourselves!'"