HedgehogI do not know how he managed it, but a fox one day got into a poultryyard, and there he ate his fill. Some time afterwards, going along to thepoultry yard, the hedgehog met him."Where are you going, brother?""I am going to eat my fill.""Surely you cannot get it just as you like.""Oh," he said, "you just come with me, and I will show you. I know myway, and there is plenty for me and for you, and some to leave behind foranother time."The hedgehog, who was a wise old fellow, said to the fox, "Now, becareful. Are you sure that the owners of the poultry yard will let you inagain so easily?""Don't you trouble," said the fox. "I know my business. You just comewith me."And the hedgehog went with him. But the people of the poultry yard werenot such fools as the fox had taken them for, and just where the fox hadgot in last time they had dug a deep pit, and into that the fox and thehedgehog tumbled.When they found themselves at the bottom of the pit, the hedgehogturned to the fox and said, "Well, you clever fellow, is that the properway to get into the poultry yard? Did I not warn you?""What is the good of talking?" replied the fox. "We are here now, andwe must see how to get out of it.""But you are so clever, and I am only a poor old fool.""Never mind. You were always a wise one. Can you help me?""No," he said. "I cannot help you. This sudden fall has upset me, and Ifeel queer and sick.""What," cried the fox. "You are not going to be sick here. That is morethan I can stand. Out you go!"So he got hold of the hedgehog by the snout, and the hedgehog coiledhimself up with his little paws into a little ball round the fox's mouth.The fox lifted up his head with a jerk and threw the little fellow out ofthe pit.As soon as he saw himself safely out of the pit, the little hedgehog,bending over the mouth of the pit, said, chuckling to the fox, "Where isyour wisdom, you fool? You boast that you have a bagful of wits, whilst itis I who get myself out of the pit, though I have only a little wit.""Oh," said the fox, whining, "do have pity on me! You are such a cleverold fellow. Help me out of it too.""Well, said the hedgehog, "I will help you. Now, you pretend to bedead, and when the people come and find you stiff and stark, and a nastysmell about you, they will say, 'The fox has died, and his carcass isrotting. It is going to make all the poultry yard offensive.' They willtake you and throw you out. And then see whither your way lies."The fox did as the hedgehog had advised him, and when the people cameand found him in that state, they hauled him out and threw him out of theyard onto the road. Quicker than you could clap your hands, the fox was onhis legs, and he ran as if the ground was burning under him.Since then the fox and the hedgehog are good friends.