Ah! yes, that was little Tuk: in reality his name was not Tuk, but thatwas what he called himself before he could speak plain: he meant it forCharles, and it is all well enough if one does but know it. He had nowto take care of his little sister Augusta, who was much younger thanhimself, and he was, besides, to learn his lesson at the same time. butthese two things would not do together at all. There sat the poor littlefellow, with his sister on his lap, and he sang to her all the songs heknew. and he glanced the while from time to time into the geography bookthat lay open before him. By the next morning he was to have learntall the towns in Zealand by heart, and to know about them all that ispossible to be known.His mother now came home, for she had been out, and took little Augustaon her arm. Tuk ran quickly to the window, and read so eagerly that hepretty nearly read his eyes out. for it got darker and darker, but hismother had no money to buy a candle."There goes the old washerwoman over the way," said his mother, as shelooked out of the window. "The poor woman can hardly drag herself along,and she must now drag the pail home from the fountain. Be a good boy,Tukey, and run across and help the old woman, won't you?"So Tuk ran over quickly and helped her. but when he came back again intothe room it was quite dark, and as to a light, there was no thought ofsuch a thing. He was now to go to bed. that was an old turn up bedstead.in it he lay and thought about his geography lesson, and of Zealand, andof all that his master had told him. He ought, to be sure, to have readover his lesson again, but that, you know, he could not do. He thereforeput his geography book under his pillow, because he had heard that wasa very good thing to do when one wants to learn one's lesson. but onecannot, however, rely upon it entirely. Well, there he lay, and thoughtand thought, and all at once it was just as if someone kissed his eyesand mouth: he slept, and yet he did not sleep. it was as though the oldwasherwoman gazed on him with her mild eyes and said, "It were a greatsin if you were not to know your lesson tomorrow morning. You have aidedme, I therefore will now help you. and the loving God will do so at alltimes." And all of a sudden the book under Tuk's pillow began scrapingand scratching."Kickery ki! kluk! kluk! kluk!" that was an old hen who came creepingalong, and she was from Kjoge. "I am a Kjoger hen," said she, and thenshe related how many inhabitants there were there, and about the battlethat had taken place, and which, after all, was hardly worth talkingabout.Kjoge, a town in the bay of Kjoge. "To see the Kjogehens," is an expression similar to "showing a child London,"which is said to be done by taking his head in both bands,and so lifting him off the ground. At the invasion of theEnglish in 1807, an encounter of a no very glorious naturetook place between the British troops and the undisciplinedDanish militia."Kribledy, krabledy plump!" down fell somebody: it was a wooden bird,the popinjay used at the shooting matches at Prastoe. Now he said thatthere were just as many inhabitants as he had nails in his body. and hewas very proud. "Thorwaldsen lived almost next door to me. Plump! HereI lie capitally."Prastoe, a still smaller town than Kjoge. Some hundred paces fromit lies the manor house Ny Soe, where Thorwaldsen, the famed sculptor,generally sojourned during his stay in Denmark, and where he called manyof his immortal works into existence.But little Tuk was no longer lying down: all at once he was onhorseback. On he went at full gallop, still galloping on and on. Aknight with a gleaming plume, and most magnificently dressed, held himbefore him on the horse, and thus they rode through the wood to the oldtown of Bordingborg, and that was a large and very lively town. Hightowers rose from the castle of the king, and the brightness of manycandles streamed from all the windows. within was dance and song,and King Waldemar and the young, richly attired maids of honor dancedtogether. The morn now came. and as soon as the sun appeared, the wholetown and the king's palace crumbled together, and one tower after theother. and at last only a single one remained standing where the castlehad been before, and the town was so small and poor, and the schoolboys came along with their books under their arms, and said, "2000inhabitants!" but that was not true, for there were not so many.Bordingborg, in the reign of King Waldemar, a considerable place, nowan unimportant little town. One solitary tower only, and some remains ofa wall, show where the castle once stood.And little Tukey lay in his bed: it seemed to him as if he dreamed, andyet as if he were not dreaming. however, somebody was close beside him."Little Tukey! Little Tukey!" cried someone near. It was a seaman,quite a little personage, so little as if he were a midshipman. but amidshipman it was not."Many remembrances from Corsor. That is a town that is just risinginto importance. a lively town that has steam boats and stagecoaches:formerly people called it ugly, but that is no longer true. I lie onthe sea," said Corsor. "I have high roads and gardens, and I have givenbirth to a poet who was witty and amusing, which all poets are not. Ionce intended to equip a ship that was to sail all round the earth. butI did not do it, although I could have done so: and then, too, I smellso deliciously, for close before the gate bloom the most beautifulroses."Corsor, on the Great Belt, called, formerly, before the introductionof steam vessels, when travellers were often obliged to wait a long timefor a favorable wind, "the most tiresome of towns." The poet Baggesenwas born here.Little Tuk looked, and all was red and green before his eyes. but assoon as the confusion of colors was somewhat over, all of a sudden thereappeared a wooded slope close to the bay, and high up above stood amagnificent old church, with two high pointed towers. From out thehill side spouted fountains in thick streams of water, so that therewas a continual splashing. and close beside them sat an old king witha golden crown upon his white head: that was King Hroar, near thefountains, close to the town of Roeskilde, as it is now called. And upthe slope into the old church went all the kings and queens of Denmark,hand in hand, all with their golden crowns. and the organ played andthe fountains rustled. Little Tuk saw all, heard all. "Do not forget thediet," said King Hroar.Roeskilde, once the capital of Denmark. The town takes its name fromKing Hroar, and the many fountains in the neighborhood. In the beautifulcathedral the greater number of the kings and queens of Denmark areinterred. In Roeskilde, too, the members of the Danish Diet assemble.Again all suddenly disappeared. Yes, and whither? It seemed to himjust as if one turned over a leaf in a book. And now stood there anold peasant woman, who came from Soroe, where grass grows in themarket place. She had an old grey linen apron hanging over her head andback: it was so wet, it certainly must have been raining. "Yes, that ithas," said she. and she now related many pretty things out of Holberg'scomedies, and about Waldemar and Absalon. but all at once she coweredtogether, and her head began shaking backwards and forwards, and shelooked as she were going to make a spring. "Croak! croak!" said she."It is wet, it is wet. there is such a pleasant deathlike stillness inSorbe!" She was now suddenly a frog, "Croak". and now she was an oldwoman. "One must dress according to the weather," said she. "It is wet.it is wet. My town is just like a bottle. and one gets in by the neck,and by the neck one must get out again! In former times I had thefinest fish, and now I have fresh rosy cheeked boys at the bottom of thebottle, who learn wisdom, Hebrew, Greek Croak!"Sorbe, a very quiet little town, beautifully situated, surrounded bywoods and lakes. Holberg, Denmark's Moliere, founded here an academyfor the sons of the nobles. The poets Hauch and Ingemann were appointedprofessors here. The latter lives there still.When she spoke it sounded just like the noise of frogs, or as if onewalked with great boots over a moor. always the same tone, so uniformand so tiring that little Tuk fell into a good sound sleep, which, bythe bye, could not do him any harm.But even in this sleep there came a dream, or whatever else it was: hislittle sister Augusta, she with the blue eyes and the fair curling hair,was suddenly a tall, beautiful girl, and without having wings was yetable to fly. and she now flew over Zealand over the green woods and theblue lakes."Do you hear the cock crow, Tukey? Cock a doodle doo! The cocks areflying up from Kjoge! You will have a farm yard, so large, oh! so verylarge! You will suffer neither hunger nor thirst! You will get on in theworld! You will be a rich and happy man! Your house will exalt itselflike King Waldemar's tower, and will be richly decorated with marblestatues, like that at Prastoe. You understand what I mean. Your nameshall circulate with renown all round the earth, like unto the ship thatwas to have sailed from Corsor. and in Roeskilde ""Do not forget the diet!" said King Hroar."Then you will speak well and wisely, little Tukey. and when at last yousink into your grave, you shall sleep as quietly ""As if I lay in Soroe," said Tuk, awaking. It was bright day, and he wasnow quite unable to call to mind his dream. that, however, was not atall necessary, for one may not know what the future will bring.And out of bed he jumped, and read in his book, and now all at once heknew his whole lesson. And the old washerwoman popped her head in at thedoor, nodded to him friendly, and said, "Thanks, many thanks, my goodchild, for your help! May the good ever loving God fulfil your loveliestdream!"Little Tukey did not at all know what he had dreamed, but the loving Godknew it.