At a long distant period there stood on the shore of a lake a vilvaforest. In this forest dwelt six hares. Now a vilva tree in that forestfell into the lake, thereby producing a great noise. When the six haresheard this noise, they began, as they had but small bodies, to run awayfull of fear.The jackals saw them running, and asked, "O honored ones, wherefore do yerun?"The hares replied, "There was a great noise." Thereupon the jackals alsotook to flight.When the monkeys saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, whereforedo ye run?"The jackals replied, "There was a great noise." Thereupon the monkeys alsotook to flight.When the gazelles saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, whereforedo ye run?"The monkeys replied, "There was a great noise." Thereupon the gazellesalso took to flight.When the boars saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore doye run?"The gazelles replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the boars also tookto flight.When the buffaloes saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, whereforedo ye run? "The boars replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the buffaloes also tookto flight.When the rhinoceroses saw them running they asked, "O honored ones,wherefore do ye run?"The buffaloes replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the rhinocerosesalso took to flight.When the elephants saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, whereforedo ye run?"The rhinoceroses replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the elephantsalso took to flight.When the bears saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore doye run?"The elephants replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the bears also tookto flight.When the hyenas saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore doye run?"The bears replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the hyenas also took toflight.When the panthers saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, whereforedo ye run?"The hyenas replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the panthers also tookto flight.When the tigers saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore doye run?"The panthers replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the tigers also tookto flight.When the lions saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore doye run?"The tigers replied, "There was a loud noise." Thereupon the lions alsotook to flight.At the foot of the mountain there dwelt a maned lion, which likewiseseemed to wear a diadem. When it saw the lions running it asked, "Ohonored ones, wherefore do ye all run, although each of you is strong inclaws and strong in teeth?"The lions replied, "There was a loud noise.""O honored ones, whence did the noise come?" it asked."We do not know," they replied.Then said that lion, "O honored ones, do not run. Inquiry must be made asto where the noise came from."It asked the tigers, "Who told you about it?"The tigers replied, "The panthers."It asked the panthers, "Who was it told you?"The panthers replied, "The hyenas."It asked the hyenas, "Who was it told you?"The hyenas replied, "The bears."It asked the bears, "Who was it told you?"The bears replied, "The elephants."It asked the elephants, "Who was it told you ?"The elephants replied, "The rhinoceroses."It asked the rhinoceroses, "Who was it told you?"The rhinoceroses replied, "The buffaloes."It asked the buffaloes, "Who was it told you?"The buffaloes replied, "The boars."It asked the boars, "Who was it told you?"The boars replied, "The gazelles."It asked the gazelles, "Who was it told you?"The gazelles replied, "The monkeys."It asked the monkeys, "Who was it told you?"The monkeys replied, "The jackals."It asked the jackals, "Who was it told you?"The jackals replied, "The hares."It asked the hares, "Who was it told you?"The hares replied, "We saw the terrible thing with our own eyes. Come, wewill show you whence the noise came." So they guided the lion, and showedit the vilva forest, saying, "That is where the noise came from."Inasmuch as the noise was caused by the fall of a vilva tree out of thatforest into the lake, the lion said, "O honored ones, be not afraid, forthat was only an empty sound."Consequently they were all tranquillized. And a deity uttered this verse,"Let not men believe in words. They ought to see everything forthemselves. Observe how, through the fall of a vilva, the forest lost itsbeasts."