Long, long ago, a king and queen reigned over a large and powerfulcountry. What their names were nobody knows, but their son was calledSigurd, and their daughter Lineik, and these young people were famedthroughout the whole kingdom for their wisdom and beauty.There was only a year between them, and they loved each other so muchthat they could do nothing apart. When they began to grow up the kinggave them a house of their own to live in, with servants and carriages,and everything they could possibly want.For many years they all lived happily together, and then the queen fellill, and knew that she would never get better.'Promise me two things,' she said one day to the king. 'one, that ifyou marry again, as indeed you must, you will not choose as your wife awoman from some small state or distant island, who knows nothing of theworld, and will be taken up with thoughts of her grandeur. But ratherseek out a princess of some great kingdom, who has been used to courtsall her life, and holds them at their true worth. The other thing I haveto ask is, that you will never cease to watch over our children, whowill soon become your greatest joy.'These were the queen's last words, and a few hours later she was dead.The king was so bowed down with sorrow that he would not attend even tothe business of the kingdom, and at last his Prime Minister had to tellhim that the people were complaining that they had nobody to right theirwrongs. 'You must rouse yourself, sir,' went on the minister, 'and putaside your own sorrows for the sake of your country.''You do not spare me,' answered the king. 'but what you say is just, andyour counsel is good. I have heard that men say, likewise, that it willbe for the good of my kingdom for me to marry again, though my heartwill never cease to be with my lost wife. But it was her wish also.therefore, to you I entrust the duty of finding a lady fitted to sharemy throne. only, see that she comes neither from a small town nor aremote island.'So an embassy was prepared, with the minister at its head, to visit thegreatest courts in the world, and to choose out a suitable princess. Butthe vessel which carried them had not been gone many days when a thickfog came on, and the captain could see neither to the right nor to theleft. For a whole month the ship drifted about in darkness, till atlength the fog lifted and they beheld a cliff jutting out just in front.On one side of the cliff lay a sheltered bay, in which the vessel wassoon anchored, and though they did not know where they were, at any ratethey felt sure of fresh fruit and water.The minister left the rest of his followers on board the ship, andtaking a small boat rowed himself to land, in order to look about himand to find out if the island was really as deserted as it seemed.He had not gone far, when he heard the sound of music, and, turningin its direction, he saw a woman of marvellous beauty sitting on a lowstool playing on a harp, while a girl beside her sang. The ministerstopped and greeted the lady politely, and she replied withfriendliness, asking him why he had come to such an out of the wayplace. In answer he told her of the object of his journey.'I am in the same state as your master,' replied the lady. 'I wasmarried to a mighty king who ruled over this land, till Vikingscame and slew him and put all the people to death. But Imanaged to escape, and hid myself here with my daughter.'And the daughter listened, and said softly to her mother: 'Are youspeaking the truth now?''Remember your promise,' answered the mother angrily, giving her a pinchwhich was unseen by the minister.'What is your name, madam?' asked he, much touched by this sad story.'Blauvor,' she replied 'and my daughter is called Laufer'. and then sheinquired the name of the minister, and of the king his master. Afterthis they talked of many things, and the lady showed herself learnedin all that a woman should know, and even in much that men only werecommonly taught. 'What a wife she would make for the king,' thought theminister to himself, and before long he had begged the honour of herhand for his master. She declared at first that she was too unworthy toaccept the position offered her, and that the minister would soon repenthis choice. but this only made him the more eager, and in the end hegained her consent, and prevailed on her to return with him at once tohis own country.The minister then conducted the mother and daughter back to the ship.the anchor was raised, the sails spread, and a fair wind was behindthem.Now that the fog had lifted they could see as they looked back that,except just along the shore, the island was bare and deserted and notfit for men to live in. but about that nobody cared. They had a quickvoyage, and in six days they reached the land, and at once set out forthe capital, a messenger being sent on first by the minister to informthe king of what had happened.When his Majesty's eyes fell on the two beautiful women, clad in dressesof gold and silver, he forgot his sorrows and ordered preparations forthe wedding to be made without delay. In his joy he never remembered toinquire in what kind of country the future queen had been found. In facthis head was so turned by the beauty of the two ladies that when theinvitations were sent by his orders to all the great people in thekingdom, he did not even recollect his two children, who remained shutup in their own house!After the marriage the king ceased to have any will of his own anddid nothing without consulting his wife. She was present at all hiscouncils, and her opinion was asked before making peace or war. But whena few months had passed the king began to have doubts as to whether theminister's choice had really been a wise one, and he noticed that hischildren lived more and more in their palace and never came near theirstepmother.It always happens that if a person's eyes are once opened they see agreat deal more than they ever expected. and soon it struck the kingthat the members of his court had a way of disappearing one after theother without any reason. At first he had not paid much attention to thefact, but merely appointed some fresh person to the vacant place. As,however, man after man vanished without leaving any trace, he began togrow uncomfortable and to wonder if the queen could have anything to dowith it.Things were in this state when, one day, his wife said to him that itwas time for him to make a progress through his kingdom and see that hisgovernors were not cheating him of the money that was his due. 'Andyou need not be anxious about going,' she added, 'for I will rule thecountry while you are away as carefully as you could yourself.'The king had no great desire to undertake this journey, but the queen'swill was stronger than his, and he was too lazy to make a fight for it.So he said nothing and set about his preparations, ordering his finestship to be ready to carry him round the coast. Still his heart washeavy, and he felt uneasy, though he could not have told why. and thenight before he was to start he went to the children's palace to takeleave of his son and daughter.He had not seen them for some time, and they gave him a warm welcome,for they loved him dearly and he had always been kind to them. Theyhad much to tell him, but after a while he checked their merry talk andsaid:'If I should never come back from this journey I fear that it may notbe safe for you to stay here. so directly there are no more hopes of myreturn go instantly and take the road eastwards till you reach a highmountain, which you must cross. Once over the mountain keep along by theside of a little bay till you come to two trees, one green and the otherred, standing in a thicket, and so far back from the road that withoutlooking for them you would never see them. Hide each in the trunk of oneof the trees and there you will be safe from all your enemies.'With these words the king bade them farewell and entered sadly intohis ship. For a few days the wind was fair, and everything seemed goingsmoothly. then, suddenly, a gale sprang up, and a fearful storm ofthunder and lightning, such as had never happened within the memory ofman. In spite of the efforts of the frightened sailors the vessel wasdriven on the rocks, and not a man on board was saved.That very night Prince Sigurd had a dream, in which he thought hisfather appeared to him in dripping clothes, and, taking the crown fromhis head, laid it at his son's feet, leaving the room as silently as hehad entered it.Hastily the prince awoke his sister Lineik, and they agreed that theirfather must be dead, and that they must lose no time in obeying hisorders and putting themselves in safety. So they collected their jewelsand a few clothes and left the house without being observed by anyone.They hurried on till they arrived at the mountain without once lookingback. Then Sigurd glanced round and saw that their stepmother wasfollowing them, with an expression on her face which made her uglierthan the ugliest old witch. Between her and them lay a thick wood, andSigurd stopped for a moment to set it on fire. then he and his sisterhastened on more swiftly than before, till they reached the grove withthe red and green trees, into which they jumped, and felt that at lastthey were safe.Now, at that time there reigned over Greece a king who was very richand powerful, although his name has somehow been forgotten. He had twochildren, a son and a daughter, who were more beautiful and accomplishedthan any Greeks had been before, and they were the pride of theirfather's heart.The prince had no sooner grown out of boyhood than he prevailed on hisfather to make war during the summer months on a neighbouring nation,so as to give him a chance of making himself famous. In winter, however,when it was difficult to get food and horses in that wild country, thearmy was dispersed, and the prince returned home.During one of these wars he had heard reports of the Princess Lineik'sbeauty, and he resolved to seek her out, and to ask for her hand inmarriage. All this Blauvor, the queen, found out by means of her blackarts, and when the prince drew near the capital she put a splendid dresson her own daughter and then went to meet her guest.She bade him welcome to her palace, and when they had finished suppershe told him of the loss of her husband, and how there was no one leftto govern the kingdom but herself.'But where is the Princess Lineik?' asked the prince when she had endedher tale.'Here,' answered the queen, bringing forward the girl, whom she hadhitherto kept in the background.The prince looked at her and was rather disappointed. The maiden waspretty enough, but not much out of the common.'Oh, you must not wonder at her pale face and heavy eyes,' said thequeen hastily, for she saw what was passing in his mind. 'She has nevergot over the loss of both father and mother.''That shows a good heart,' thought the prince. 'and when she is happyher beauty will soon come back.' And without any further delay he beggedthe queen to consent to their betrothal, for the marriage must takeplace in his own country.The queen was enchanted. She had hardly expected to succeed so soon, andshe at once set about her preparations. Indeed she wished to travel withthe young couple, to make sure that nothing should go wrong. but herethe prince was firm, that he would take no one with him but Laufer, whomhe thought was Lineik.They soon took leave of the queen, and set sail in a splendid ship. butin a short time a dense fog came on, and in the dark the captain steeredout of his course, and they found themselves in a bay which was quitestrange to all the crew. The prince ordered a boat to be lowered, andwent on shore to look about him, and it was not long before he noticedthe two beautiful trees, quite different from any that grew in Greece.Calling one of the sailors, he bade him cut them down, and carry them onboard the ship. This was done, and as the sky was now clear they put outto sea, and arrived in Greece without any more adventures.The news that the prince had brought home a bride had gone before them,and they were greeted with flowery arches and crowns of coloured lights.The king and queen met them on the steps of the palace, and conductedthe girl to the women's house, where she would have to remain until hermarriage. The prince then went to his own rooms and ordered that thetrees should be brought in to him.The next morning the prince bade his attendants bring his future brideto his own apartments, and when she came he gave her silk which she wasto weave into three robes one red, one green, and one blue and thesemust all be ready before the wedding. The blue one was to be done firstand the green last, and this was to be the most splendid of all, 'for Iwill wear it at our marriage,' said he.Left alone, Laufer sat and stared at the heap of shining silk beforeher. She did not know how to weave, and burst into tears as she thoughtthat everything would be discovered, for Lineik's skill in weaving wasas famous as her beauty. As she sat with her face hidden and her bodyshaken by sobs, Sigurd in his tree heard her and was moved to pity.'Lineik, my sister,' he called, softly, 'Laufer is weeping. help her, Ipray you.''Have you forgotten the wrongs her mother did to us' answered Lineik,'and that it is owing to her that we are banished from home?'But she was not really unforgiving, and very soon she slid quietly outof her hiding place, and taking the silk from Laufer's hands began toweave it. So quick and clever was she that the blue dress was not onlywoven but embroidered, and Lineik was safe back in her tree before theprince returned.'It is the most beautiful work I have ever seen,' said he, taking up abit. 'And I am sure that the red one will be still better, because thestuff is richer,' and with a low bow he left the room.Laufer had hoped secretly that when the prince had seen the blue dressfinished he would have let her off the other two. but when she found shewas expected to fulfil the whole task, her heart sank and she began tocry loudly. Again Sigurd heard her, and begged Lineik to come to herhelp, and Lineik, feeling sorry for her distress, wove and embroideredthe second dress as she had done the first, mixing gold thread andprecious stones till you could hardly see the red of the stuff. When itwas done she glided into her tree just as the prince came in.'You are as quick as you are clever,' said he, admiringly. 'This looksas if it had been embroidered by the fairies! But as the green robe mustoutshine the other two I will give you three days in which to finish it.After it is ready we will be married at once.'Now, as he spoke, there rose up in Laufer's mind all the unkind thingsthat she and her mother had done to Lineik. Could she hope that theywould be forgotten, and that Lineik would come to her rescue for thethird time? And perhaps Lineik, who had not forgotten the past either,might have left her alone, to get on as best she could, had not Sigurd,her brother, implored her to help just once more. So Lineik again slidout of her tree, and, to Laufer's great relief, set herself to work.When the shining green silk was ready she caught the sun's rays and themoon's beams on the point of her needle and wove them into a patternsuch as no man had ever seen. But it took a long time, and on the thirdmorning, just as she was putting the last stitches into the last flowerthe prince came in.Lineik jumped up quickly, and tried to get past him back to her tree.but the folds of the silk were wrapped round her, and she would havefallen had not the prince caught her.'I have thought for some time that all was not quite straight here,'said he. 'Tell me who you are, and where you come from?'Lineik then told her name and her story. When she had ended the princeturned angrily to Laufer, and declared that, as a punishment for herwicked lies, she deserved to die a shameful death.But Laufer fell at his feet and begged for mercy. It was her mother'sfault, she said: 'It was she, and not I, who passed me off as thePrincess Lineik. The only lie I have ever told you was about the robes,and I do not deserve death for that.'She was still on her knees when Prince Sigurd entered the room.He prayed the Prince of Greece to forgive Laufer, which he did,on condition that Lineik would consent to marry him. 'Not till mystepmother is dead,' answered she, 'for she has brought misery to allthat came near her.' Then Laufer told them that Blauvor was not the wifeof a king, but an ogress who had stolen her from a neighbouring palaceand had brought her up as her daughter. And besides being an ogress shewas also a witch, and by her black arts had sunk the ship in which thefather of Sigurd and Lineik had set sail. It was she who had causedthe disappearance of the courtiers, for which no one could account, byeating them during the night, and she hoped to get rid of all the peoplein the country, and then to fill the land with ogres and ogresses likeherself.So Prince Sigurd and the Prince of Greece collected an army swiftly,and marched upon the town where Blauvor had her palace. They came sosuddenly that no one knew of it, and if they had, Blauvor had eaten mostof the strong men. and others, fearful of something they could not tellwhat, had secretly left the place. Therefore she was easily captured,and the next day was beheaded in the market place. Afterwards the twoprinces marched back to Greece.Lineik had no longer any reason for putting off her wedding, and marriedthe Prince of Greece at the same time that Sigurd married the princess.And Laufer remained with Lineik as her friend and sister, till theyfound a husband for her in a great nobleman. and all three couples livedhappily until they died.