A young man was out walking one day in Erin, leading a stout cart horseby the bridle. He was thinking of his mother and how poor they weresince his father, who was a fisherman, had been drowned at sea, andwondering what he should do to earn a living for both of them. Suddenlya hand was laid on his shoulder, and a voice said to him:'Will you sell me your horse, son of the fisherman?' and looking up hebeheld a man standing in the road with a gun in his hand, a falcon onhis shoulder, and a dog by his side.'What will you give me for my horse?' asked the youth. 'Will you give meyour gun, and your dog, and your falcon?''I will give them,' answered the man, and he took the horse, and theyouth took the gun and the dog and the falcon, and went home with them.But when his mother heard what he had done she was very angry, and beathim with a stick which she had in her hand.'That will teach you to sell my property,' said she, when her arm wasquite tired, but Ian her son answered her nothing, and went off to hisbed, for he was very sore.That night he rose softly, and left the house carrying the gun with him.'I will not stay here to be beaten,' thought he, and he walked andhe walked and he walked, till it was day again, and he was hungry andlooked about him to see if he could get anything to eat. Not very faroff was a farm house, so he went there, and knocked at the door, and thefarmer and his wife begged him to come in, and share their breakfast.'Ah, you have a gun,' said the farmer as the young man placed it in acorner. 'That is well, for a deer comes every evening to eat my corn,and I cannot catch it. It is fortune that has sent you to me.''I will gladly remain and shoot the deer for you,' replied the youth,and that night he hid himself and watched till the deer came to thecornfield. then he lifted his gun to his shoulder and was just goingto pull the trigger, when, behold! instead of a deer, a woman with longblack hair was standing there. At this sight his gun almost dropped fromhis hand in surprise, but as he looked, there was the deer eating thecorn again. And thrice this happened, till the deer ran away over themoor, and the young man after her.On they went, on and on and one, till they reached a cottage which wasthatched with heather. With a bound the deer sprang on the roof, and laydown where none could see her, but as she did so she called out, 'Go in,fisher's son, and eat and drink while you may.' So he entered and foundfood and wine on the table, but no man, for the house belonged to somerobbers, who were still away at their wicked business.After Ian, the fisher's son, had eaten all he wanted, he hid himselfbehind a great cask, and very soon he heard a noise, as of men comingthrough the heather, and the small twigs snapping under their feet.From his dark corner he could see into the room, and he counted four andtwenty of them, all big, cross looking men.'Some one has been eating our dinner,' cried they, 'and there was hardlyenough for ourselves.''It is the man who is lying under the cask,' answered the leader. 'Goand kill him, and then come and eat your food and sleep, for we must beoff betimes in the morning.'So four of them killed the fisher's son and left him, and then went tobed.By sunrise they were all out of the house, for they had far to go. Andwhen they had disappeared the deer came off the roof, to where the deadman lay, and she shook her head over him, and wax fell from her ear, andhe jumped up as well as ever.'Trust me and eat as you did before, and no harm shall happen to you,'said she. So Ian ate and drank, and fell sound asleep under the cask.In the evening the robbers arrived very tired, and crosser than theyhad been yesterday, for their luck had turned and they had brought backscarcely anything.'Someone has eaten our dinner again,' cried they.'It is the man under the barrel,' answered the captain. 'Let four of yougo and kill him, but first slay the other four who pretended to kill himlast night and didn't because he is still alive.'Then Ian was killed a second time, and after the rest of the robbers hadeaten, they lay down and slept till morning.No sooner were their faces touched with the sun's rays than they were upand off. Then the deer entered and dropped the healing wax on the deadman, and he was as well as ever. By this time he did not mind whatbefell him, so sure was he that the deer would take care of him, andin the evening that which had happened before happened again the fourrobbers were put to death and the fisher's son also, but because therewas no food left for them to eat, they were nearly mad with rage, andbegan to quarrel. From quarrelling they went on to fighting, and foughtso hard that by and bye they were all stretched dead on the floor.Then the deer entered, and the fisher's son was restored to life, andbidding him follow her, she ran on to a little white cottage where dweltan old woman and her son, who was thin and dark.'Here I must leave you,' said the deer, 'but to morrow meet me atmidday in the church that is yonder.' And jumping across the stream, shevanished into a wood.Next day he set out for the church, but the old woman of the cottage hadgone before him, and had stuck an enchanted stick called 'the spike ofhurt' in a crack of the door, so that he would brush against it as hestepped across the threshold. Suddenly he felt so sleepy that he couldnot stand up, and throwing himself on the ground he sank into a deepslumber, not knowing that the dark lad was watching him. Nothing couldwaken him, not even the sound of sweetest music, nor the touch of a ladywho bent over him. A sad look came on her face, as she saw it was nouse, and at last she gave it up, and lifting his arm, wrote her nameacross the side 'the daughter of the king of the town under thewaves.''I will come to morrow,' she whispered, though he could not hear her,and she went sorrowfully away.Then he awoke, and the dark lad told him what had befallen him, and hewas very grieved. But the dark lad did not tell him of the name that waswritten underneath his arm.On the following morning the fisher's son again went to the church,determined that he would not go to sleep, whatever happened. But in hishurry to enter he touched with his hand the spike of hurt, and sank downwhere he stood, wrapped in slumber. A second time the air was filledwith music, and the lady came in, stepping softly, but though she laidhis head on her knee, and combed his hair with a golden comb, his eyesopened not. Then she burst into tears, and placing a beautifully wroughtbox in his pocket she went her way.The next day the same thing befell the fisher's son, and this timethe lady wept more bitterly than before, for she said it was the lastchance, and she would never be allowed to come any more, for home shemust go.As soon as the lady had departed the fisher's son awoke, and the darklad told him of her visit, and how he would never see her as long as helived. At this the fisher's son felt the cold creeping up to his heart,yet he knew the fault had not been his that sleep had overtaken him.'I will search the whole world through till I find her,' cried he, andthe dark lad laughed as he heard him. But the fisher's son took no heed,and off he went, following the sun day after day, till his shoes were inholes and his feet were sore from the journey. Nought did he see butthe birds that made their nests in the trees, not so much as a goat ora rabbit. On and on and on he went, till suddenly he came upon a littlehouse, with a woman standing outside it.'All hail, fisher's son!' said she. 'I know what you are seeking. enterin and rest and eat, and to morrow I will give you what help I can, andsend you on your way.'Gladly did Ian the fisher's son accept her offer, and all that day herested, and the woman gave him ointment to put on his feet, which healedhis sores. At daybreak he got up, ready to be gone, and the woman badehim farewell, saying:'I have a sister who dwells on the road which you must travel. It is along road, and it would take you a year and a day to reach it, but puton these old brown shoes with holes all over them, and you will be therebefore you know it. Then shake them off, and turn their toes to theknown, and their heels to the unknown, and they will come home ofthemselves.'The fisher's son did as the woman told him, and everything happened justas she had said. But at parting the second sister said to him, as shegave him another pair of shoes:'Go to my third sister, for she has a son who is keeper of the birds ofthe air, and sends them to sleep when night comes. He is very wise, andperhaps he can help you.'Then the young man thanked her, and went to the third sister.The third sister was very kind, but had no counsel to give him, so heate and drank and waited till her son came home, after he had sent allthe birds to sleep. He thought a long while after his mother had toldhim the young man's story, and at last he said that he was hungry, andthe cow must be killed, as he wanted some supper. So the cow was killedand the meat cooked, and a bag made of its red skin.'Now get into the bag,' bade the son, and the young man got in and tookhis gun with him, but the dog and the falcon he left outside. The keeperof the birds drew the string at the top of the bag, and left it tofinish his supper, when in flew an eagle through the open door, andpicked the bag up in her claws and carried it through the air to anisland. There was nothing to eat on the island, and the fisher's sonthought he would die of food, when he remembered the box that the ladyhad put in his pocket. He opened the lid, and three tiny little birdsflew out, and flapping their wings they asked,'Good master, is there anything we can do for thee?''Bear me to the kingdom of the king under the waves,' he answered, andone little bird flew on to his head, and the others perched on each ofhis shoulders, and he shut his eyes, and in a moment there he was inthe country under the sea. Then the birds flew away, and the young manlooked about him, his heart beating fast at the thought that here dweltthe lady whom he had sought all the world over.He walked on through the streets, and presently he reached the house ofa weaver who was standing at his door, resting from his work.'You are a stranger here, that is plain,' said the weaver, 'but come in,and I will give you food and drink.' And the young man was glad, for heknew not where to go, and they sat and talked till it grew late.'Stay with me, I pray, for I love company and am lonely,' observed theweaver at last, and he pointed to a bed in a corner, where the fisher'sson threw himself, and slept till dawn.'There is to be a horse race in the town to day,' remarked the weaver,'and the winner is to have the king's daughter to wife.' The youngman trembled with excitement at the news, and his voice shook as heanswered:'That will be a prize indeed, I should like to see the race.''Oh, that is quite easy anyone can go,' replied the weaver. 'I wouldtake you myself, but I have promised to weave this cloth for the king.''That is a pity,' returned the young man politely, but in his heart herejoiced, for he wished to be alone.Leaving the house, he entered a grove of trees which stood behind, andtook the box from his pocket. He raised the lid, and out flew the threelittle birds.'Good master, what shall we do for thee?' asked they, and he answered,'Bring me the finest horse that ever was seen, and the grandest dress,and glass shoes.''They are here, master,' said the birds, and so they were, and never hadthe young man seen anything so splendid.Mounting the horse he rode into the ground where the horses wereassembling for the great race, and took his place among them. Manygood beasts were there which had won many races, but the horse of thefisher's son left them all behind, and he was first at the winning post.The king's daughter waited for him in vain to claim his prize, forhe went back to the wood, and got off his horse, and put on his oldclothes, and bade the box place some gold in his pockets. After thathe went back to the weaver's house, and told him that the gold had beengiven him by the man who had won the race, and that the weaver mighthave it for his kindness to him.Now as nobody had appeared to demand the hand of the princess, the kingordered another race to be run, and the fisher's son rode into the fieldstill more splendidly dressed than he was before, and easily distancedeverybody else. But again he left the prize unclaimed, and so ithappened on the third day, when it seemed as if all the people inthe kingdom were gathered to see the race, for they were filled withcuriosity to know who the winner could be.'If he will not come of his own free will, he must be brought,' said theking, and the messengers who had seen the face of the victor were sentto seek him in every street of the town. This took many days, and whenat last they found the young man in the weaver's cottage, he was sodirty and ugly and had such a strange appearance, that they declared hecould not be the winner they had been searching for, but a wicked robberwho had murdered ever so many people, but had always managed to escape.'Yes, it must be the robber,' said the king, when the fisher's son wasled into his presence. 'build a gallows at once and hang him in thesight of all my subjects, that they may behold him suffer the punishmentof his crimes.'So the gallows was built upon a high platform, and the fisher's sonmounted the steps up to it, and turned at the top to make the speechthat was expected from every doomed man, innocent or guilt. As he spokehe happened to raise his arm, and the king's daughter, who was there ather father's side, saw the name which she had written under it. Witha shriek she sprang from her seat, and the eyes of the spectators wereturned towards her.'Stop! stop!' she cried, hardly knowing what she said. 'If that manis hanged there is not a soul in the kingdom but shall die also.' Andrunning up to where the fisher's son was standing, she took him by thehand, saying,'Father, this is no robber or murderer, but the victor in the threeraces, and he loosed the spells that were laid upon me.'Then, without waiting for a reply, she conducted him into the palace,and he bathed in a marble bath, and all the dirt that the fairies hadput upon him disappeared like magic, and when he had dressed himself inthe fine garments the princess had sent to him, he looked a match forany king's daughter in Erin. He went down into the great hall where shewas awaiting him, and they had much to tell each other but littletime to tell it in, for the king her father, and the princes who werevisiting him, and all the people of the kingdom were still in theirplaces expecting her return.'How did you find me out?' she whispered as they went down the passage.'The birds in the box told me,' answered he, but he could say no more,as they stepped out into the open space that was crowded with people.There the princes stopped.'O kings!' she said, turning towards them, 'if one of you were killedto day, the rest would fly. but this man put his trust in me, and hadhis head cut off three times. Because he has done this, I will marry himrather than one of you, who have come hither to wed me, for many kingshere sought to free me from the spells, but none could do it save Ianthe fisher's son.'From 'Popular Tales of the West Highlands.'