The compass, with its needle always pointing to the North, is quite acommon thing, and no one thinks that it is remarkable now, though whenit was first invented it must have been a wonder.Now long ago in China, there was a still more wonderful inventioncalled the shinansha. This was a kind of chariot with the figure of aman on it always pointing to the South. No matter how the chariot wasplaced the figure always wheeled about and pointed to the South.This curious instrument was invented by Kotei, one of the three ChineseEmperors of the Mythological age. Kotei was the son of the EmperorYuhi. Before he was born his mother had a vision which foretold thather son would be a great man.One summer evening she went out to walk in the meadows to seek the coolbreezes which blow at the end of the day and to gaze with pleasure atthe star lit heavens above her. As she looked at the North Star,strange to relate, it shot forth vivid flashes of lightning in everydirection. Soon after this her son Kotei came into the world.Kotei in time grew to manhood and succeeded his father the EmperorYuhi. His early reign was greatly troubled by the rebel Shiyu. Thisrebel wanted to make himself King, and many were the battles which hefought to this end. Shiyu was a wicked magician, his head was made ofiron, and there was no man that could conquer him.At last Kotei declared war against the rebel and led his army tobattle, and the two armies met on a plain called Takuroku. The Emperorboldly attacked the enemy, but the magician brought down a dense fogupon the battlefield, and while the royal army were wandering about inconfusion, trying to find their way, Shiyu retreated with his troops,laughing at having fooled the royal army.No matter however strong and brave the Emperor's soldiers were, therebel with his magic could always escape in the end.Kotei returned to his Palace, and thought and pondered deeply as to howhe should conquer the magician, for he was determined not to give upyet. After a long time he invented the shinansha with the figure of aman always pointing South, for there were no compasses in those days.With this instrument to show him the way he need not fear the densefogs raised up by the magician to confound his men.Kotei again declared war against Shiyu. He placed the shinansha infront of his army and led the way to the battlefield.The battle began in earnest. The rebel was being driven backward by theroyal troops when he again resorted to magic, and upon his saying somestrange words in a loud voice, immediately a dense fog came down uponthe battlefield.But this time no soldier minded the fog, not one was confused. Kotei bypointing to the shinansha could find his way and directed the armywithout a single mistake. He closely pursued the rebel army and drovethem backward till they came to a big river. This river Kotei and hismen found was swollen by the floods and impossible to cross.Shiyu by using his magic art quickly passed over with his army and shuthimself up in a fortress on the opposite bank.When Kotei found his march checked he was wild with disappointment, forhe had very nearly overtaken the rebel when the river stopped him.He could do nothing, for there were no boats in those days, so theEmperor ordered his tent to be pitched in the pleasantest spot that theplace afforded.One day he stepped forth from his tent and after walking about for ashort time he came to a pond. Here he sat down on the bank and was lostin thought.It was autumn. The trees growing along the edge of the water wereshedding their leaves, which floated hither and thither on the surfaceof the pond. By and by, Kotei's attention was attracted to a spider onthe brink of the water. The little insect was trying to get on to oneof the floating leaves near by. It did so at last, and was soonfloating over the water to the other side of the pond.This little incident made the clever Emperor think that he might try tomake something that could carry himself and his men over the river inthe same way that the leaf had carried over the spider. He set to workand persevered till he invented the first boat. When he found that itwas a success he set all his men to make more, and in time there wereenough boats for the whole army.Kotei now took his army across the river, and attacked Shiyu'sheadquarters. He gained a complete victory, and so put an end to thewar which had troubled his country for so long.This wise and good Emperor did not rest till he had secured peace andprosperity throughout his whole land. He was beloved by his subjects,who now enjoyed their happiness of peace for many long years under him.He spent a great deal of time in making inventions which would benefithis people, and he succeeded in many besides the boat and the SouthPointing shinansha.He had reigned about a hundred years when one day, as Kotei was lookingupwards, the sky became suddenly red, and something came glitteringlike gold towards the earth. As it came nearer Kotei saw that it was agreat Dragon. The Dragon approached and bowed down its head before theEmperor. The Empress and the courtiers were so frightened that they ranaway screaming.But the Emperor only smiled and called to them to stop, and said:"Do not be afraid. This is a messenger from Heaven. My time here isfinished!" He then mounted the Dragon, which began to ascend towardsthe sky.When the Empress and the courtiers saw this they all cried out together:"Wait a moment! We wish to come too." And they all ran and caught holdof the Dragon's beard and tried to mount him.But it was impossible for so many people to ride on the Dragon. Severalof them hung on to the creature's beard so that when it tried to mountthe hair was pulled out and they fell to the ground.Meanwhile the Empress and a few of the courtiers were safely seated onthe Dragon's back. The Dragon flew up so high in the heavens that in ashort time the inmates of the Palace, who had been left behinddisappointed, could see them no more.After some time a bow and an arrow dropped to the earth in thecourtyard of the Palace. They were recognized as having belonged to theEmperor Kotei. The courtiers took them up carefully and preserved themas sacred relics in the Palace.