A hermit, walking one day in a desert place, found a very large cave, which was much hidden from view, and retiring thither for sleep (for he was very weary), saw, as soon as he entered the cave, something shining in a certain place very brightly. for much gold was there. And no sooner had he perceived it than he incontinently departed and began to run through the desert as fast as he could go.Thus running, the hermit met with three great ruffians, who haunted that wild place ( foresta ), to rob whoever passed thereby. Nor were they ever aware this gold was there. Now seeing, as they lay hid, this man flee without a soul behind to chase him, they were somewhat afraid, but yet stopped him, to know what he was fleeing for, because at this they marveled much.And he replied and said, "My brothers, I am fleeing from Death, who comes after me in chase."They, seeing neither man nor beast that chased him, said, "Show us what is chasing thee, and lead us unto where it is."Then said the hermit to them, "Come with me and I will show it to you". beseeching them all the time not to go to it, for he himself was fleeing for that reason. And they, desiring to find it, to see what manner of thing it was, demanded of him nothing else.The hermit seeing that he could do no more, and fearing them, led them to the cave, whence he had departed, and said to them, "Here is Death, which was chasing me". and showed them the gold that was there. and they began to mightily congratulate themselves, and to have great fun together.Then they dismissed that good man, and he went away about his own affairs. and they began to say one to the other, how simple a person that was.These three ruffians remained all three together, to guard this wealth, and began to consider what they must do. Replied one and said, "Meseems that God has given us this so high fortune, that we should not depart from here until we carry away all this property."And another said, "Let us not do so. Let one of us take somewhat thereof and go to the city and sell it, and buy bread and wine, and whatsoever we need. and in that let him do his best, so that we be furnished."To this they all agree. The devil, who is crafty and bad enough to contrive to do whatever evil he can, put in this one's heart to go to the city for supplies. "When I am in the city," said he to himself, "I will eat and drink what I want, and then provide me with certain things whereof I have need at the present time. and then I will poison what I bring to my comrades, so that when the pair of them are dead I shall then be lord of all this property. and, as it seems to me, it is so much that I shall be the richest man of all this country for possessions."And as it came into his thought, so he did. He took for himself as much victual as he needed, and then poisoned the rest, and so he brought it to those his companions. But while he went to the city, as we have said, if he thought and contrived ill, to slay his companions, that every thing should remain for him, they, on their part, thought no better of him than he of them, and said one to the other, "As soon as this our comrade shall return with the bread and the wine and the other things we need, we will kill him, and then eat as much as we desire, and then all this great wealth shall be between us two. And the less in number we are the more shall each of us have."Now came he who had gone to the city to buy the things they needed. The moment his companions saw he had returned, they were upon him with lances and knives and killed him. When they had made a dead man of him, they ate of what he had brought. and so soon as they were satisfied both fell dead. And so died all three. for the one slew the other, as ye have heard, and had not the wealth.And thus may the Lord God requite traitors. for they went seeking death, and in this manner they found it, and in a way which they deserved. And the sage wisely fled it, and the gold abode free as at first.