HomeOnce on a time, when Brahmadatta was reigning in Benares, the Bodhisattawas born in a village as a potter's son. He plied the potter's trade,and had a wife and family to support.At that time there lay a great natural lake close by the great river ofBenares. When there was much water, river and lake were one. but whenthe water was low, they were apart. Now fish and tortoises know byinstinct when the year will be rainy and when there will be a drought.So at the time of our story the fish and tortoises which lived in thatlake knew there would be a drought. and when the two were one water, theyswam out of the lake into the river. But there was one tortoise thatwould not go into the river, because, said he, "here I was born, and hereI have grown up, and here is my parents' home. Leave it I cannot!"Then in the hot season the water all dried up. He dug a hole and buriedhimself, just in the place where the Bodhisatta was used to come forclay. There the Bodhisatta came to get some clay. With a big spade hedug down, until he cracked the tortoise's shell, turning him out on theground as though he were a large piece of clay. In his agony thecreature thought, "Here I am, dying, all because I was too fond of myhome to leave it!" And in the words of these following verses, he madehis moan:Here was I born, and here I lived. my refuge was the clay.And now the clay has played me false in a most grievous way.Thee, thee I call, oh Bhaggava. hear what I have to say!Go where thou canst find happiness, where'er the place may be.Forest or village, there the wise both home and birthplace see.Go where there's life. nor stay at home for death to master thee.So he went on and on, talking to the Bodhisatta, until hedied. TheBodhisatta picked him up, and collecting all the villagers addressed themthus: "Look at this tortoise. When the other fish and tortoises wentinto the great river, he was too fond of home to go with them, and buriedhimself in the place where I get my clay. Then as I was digging forclay, I broke his shell with my big spade, and turned him out on theground in the belief that he was a large lump of clay. Then he called tomind what he had done, lamented his fate in two verses of poetry, andexpired.So you see he came to his end because he was too fond of his home. Takecare not to be like this tortoise. Don't say to yourselves, 'I havesight, I have hearing, I have smell, I have taste, I have touch, I have ason, I have a daughter, I have numbers of men and maids for my service, Ihave precious gold.' Do not cleave to these things with craving anddesire. Each being passes through three stages of existence."Thus did he exhort the crowd with all a Buddha's skill. The discoursewas bruited abroad all over India, and for full seven thousand years itwas remembered. All the crowd abode by his exhortation, and gave alms,and did good until at last they went to swell the hosts of heaven.