Once upon a time there was a merchant who had three daughters, but hiswife was with God. Once he planned a journey across the ocean to aforeign land in order to bring back gold and other valuable things. Heconsoled his weeping children, saying, "I will bring back somethingbeautiful for you. What do you want?"The oldest asked for a silk dress, "and it must be made of three kinds ofsilk."The second desired a feathered hat, "and it must have three kinds offeathers."The youngest finally said, "Bring me a rose, dear father, and it must befresh and have three colors."The merchant promised to do this, kissed his daughters, and departed.After arriving in the foreign land, he ordered the dress of three kinds ofsilk for his oldest daughter and the hat with three kinds of feathers forthe second one. Both were soon finished, and of seldom splendor. Then hesent messengers throughout the entire country to seek a three colored rosefor his youngest and dearest daughter, but they all returned empty handed,even though the merchant had promised a high price, and even though therewere more roses there than there are daisies here.Sadly he set off for home and was downhearted the entire voyage. Thisside of the ocean he came to a large garden in which there was nothing butroses and roses. He went inside and looked, and behold, on a slender bushin the middle of the garden there was a three colored rose. Filled withjoy, he plucked it, and was about to leave, when he was magically frozenin place.A voice behind him cried out, "What do you want in my garden?" He lookedup. A large frog was sitting there on the bank of a clear pond staring athim with its goggle eyes. It said, "You have broken my dear rose. Thiswill cost you your life unless you give me your youngest daughter towife."The merchant was terrified. He begged and he pleaded, but all to noavail, and in the end he had to agree to marry his dearest daughter to theugly frog. He could now move his feet, and he freely walked out of thegarden. The frog called out after him, "In seven days I shall come for mywife!"With great sorrow the merchant gave his youngest daughter the fresh roseand told her what had happened. When the terrible day arrived, she creptunder her bed, for she did not at all want to go. At the hour of noon astately carriage drove up. The frog sent his servants into the house, andthey immediately went to the bedroom and dragged the screaming maiden frombeneath her bed, then carried her to the carriage. The horses leapedforward, and a short time later they were in the blossoming rose garden.In the middle of the garden, immediately behind the clear pond, therestood a small house. They took the bride into the house and laid her on asoft bed. The frog, however, sprang into the water.Darkness fell, and after the maiden had awakened from her unconsciousness,she heard the frog outside singing wonderfully sweet melodies. Asmidnight approached, he sang ever more sweetly, and came closer and closerto her. At midnight the bedroom door opened, and the frog jumped onto herbed. However, he had touched her with his sweet songs, and she took himinto bed with her and warmly covered him up.The next morning when she opened her eyes, behold, the ugly frog was nowthe handsomest prince in the world. He thanked her with all his heart,saying, "You have redeemed me and are now my wife!" And they lived longand happily together.