There lived a king who had an only son, on whom he doted. No one, noteven his oldest tutor, was permitted to utter a word of correction tothe prince whenever he did anything wrong, and so he grew upcompletely spoiled. He had many faults, but the worst features of hischaracter were that he was proud, arrogant and cruel. Naturally, too,he was selfish and disobedient. When he was called to his lessons, herefused, saying, "I am a prince. Before many years I shall be yourking. I have no need to learn what common people must know. Enough forme that I shall occupy the throne and shall rule. My will alone shallprevail. Says not the law of the land, 'The king can do no wrong'?"Handsome and haughty, even as a youth, he made the king's subjectsfear him by his imperious manner. His appearance in the streets wasthe signal for everyone to run into his house, bar the doors, and peernervously through the casements. He was a reckless rider, and woebetide the unfortunate persons who happened to be in his way. Sparingneither man, woman, nor child, he callously rode over them, or lashedout vindictively with the long whip he always carried, laughing whenanyone screamed with pain.So outrageous did his public conduct become that the people determinedto suffer in silence no longer. They denounced the prince in public,they petitioned the king himself to restrain his son, and his majestycould not disregard the complaints. At first he was merely annoyed,then he was indignant, but when he saw that the people were thoroughlyaroused and threatened revolt, he deemed it wise to inquire into thecharges against his son.A commission of three judges was appointed to investigate. They madefullest inquiry and finally laid a document before the kingsummarizing what they did not hesitate to declare the "infamousactions of His Royal Highness, the Crown Prince."The king's sense of justice and righteousness at once overcame hisfoolish pride."My people stand justified in their attitude which at first I thoughtonly disrespectful to my royal person," he said. "I owe them anapology and recompense. I shall atone. And my son shall atone, too.He shall not escape punishment."He summoned his son to appear before him, and the prince entered theroyal justice chamber with the air of a braggart, smilingcontemptuously at the learned judges who were seated to right and leftof his majesty, and defiantly cracking his whip."Knowest thou why thou hast been bidden to stand before the judges ofthe land?" asked the king."I know not and I care not," was the haughty answer. "The foolishchatter of the mob interests me not."The king frowned. He had not seen the prince behave in this fashionbefore. In the presence of his father, he had always been respectful."Thou hast disgraced thy honored name and thy mother's sacred memory,foolish prince," exclaimed the monarch angrily. "Thou hast humiliatedthyself and me before the people."Still the prince tried to laugh off the matter as a joke, but hequickly discovered that the king was in no mood for trifling. Standinggrave and erect, his majesty pronounced sentence in a loud and firmvoice."Know all men," he said, while all the judges, counselors, officers ofstate and representatives of the people stood awed to silence, "thatit having been proved on indisputable evidence that the prince, myson, hath grievously transgressed against the righteous laws of thisland and against the people, my subjects, on whom he hath heapedinsult, I have taken counsel with my advisers, the ministers of state,and it is my royal will and pleasure to pronounce sentence. Wherefore,I declare that my son, the prince, shall be cast forth into the world,penniless, and shall not return until he shall have learned how toCount Five. And be it further known that none may minister unto hiswants should he crave assistance by declaring he is my son, theprince."The prince stood astounded. What did the mysterious sentence mean?None could tell him. The only answer to his inquiries was a shrug ofthe shoulders, for nobody would speak to him.In the dead of night, with only the stars gazing down on the strangescene, the prince, clad in the cast off garments of a common laborer,with his golden curls cut off and not a solitary coin in his pocket,was conducted outside the palace grounds and left alone in the road.He was too much dazed to weep. He told himself this was some horribledream from which he would waken in the morning, to find himself in hisown beautiful room, lying on his gilded bed under the richlyembroidered silken coverlet.When dawn broke, however, he found himself hungry, tired, and his bodypainfully stiff, under a hedge. He knew now it was no dream but areality. He was alone and friendless, with no means of earning hisfood. He understood then what hardships the poor were compelled toundergo, and he began to realize how he had made them suffer, and how,in turn, he was now to pay a heavy price for his brutal treatment ofthe people.All that day he wandered aimlessly, until, foot sore and exhausted, hesank down at the door of a wayside cottage and begged for food andshelter. These were given to him, and next day he was set to work inthe fields. But his hands were not used to labor, and he was sentadrift, his fellow workers jeering at him. With a heavy heart, and hispride humbled, he set forth again to learn the mystery of how to CountFive.Long days and endless nights, through the heat of the summer, throughthe snows of winter, the autumnal rains and cold blasts of earlyspring, he wandered.A whole year passed away, and he had learned nothing. In truth, he hadalmost forgotten why he was aimlessly drifting from place to place,farther and farther from his home.Hunger and thirst were more often than not his daily portion, and thecold earth by night was frequently his couch. Time seemed to dragalong without meaning, and oft times for a week he heard not the soundof a human voice.He was a beggar, generally accepting gratefully what was given to him,sometimes with harsh words, often with kindly expressions. When hecould, he worked, doing anything for small coins, for a rabbi, who hadtaken compassion on him, had said, "Do any honest work, howeverrepugnant it may at first seem, rather than say haughtily, 'I am theson of a rich father.'"For a moment he wondered whether the rabbi had guessed his secret, butthe learned man said to him he was but repeating a maxim from theTalmud.Exactly a year from the date of his sentence, as well as he could keepcount, the prince found himself in a strange land on the outskirts ofa great city. There he fell in with a beggar who hailed him as abrother."Come with me," said the beggar. "I know the lore of our fraternityas few do. I know where to obtain the best food and shelter fornaught. Here, in this city, a beautiful and noble princess hasestablished a place where all wayfarers may rest and refresh. None areturned away. I will take you thither."The beggar was as good as his word, and the prince enjoyed the bestmeal and the most comfortable shelter since he had been an outcast.Overcome with emotion at the thoughts which were conjured up, heretired into a corner and wept. Suddenly he heard a voice ofentrancing sweetness say, "Why do you weep?"He looked up and beheld the most beautiful woman his eyes had everseen. Instinctively, he rose and bowed low, but made no answer."The princess speaks. It is your duty to answer," said another voice,that of an attendant.A princess! Of course, none but a princess could be so fair. And whata sympathetic voice she possessed. As a prince, he remembered, he hadspoken harshly as a rule, and had never visited any of the charitableinstitutions."You must have a history," said the princess, kindly. "Tell it to me.If it is to be kept a secret, you may place confidence in me. I shallnot betray you."The prince was on the point of telling her everything but he hesitatedand said:"Alas! I am an unhappy, wandering beggar, as you see, O most graciousprincess. But pity me not. I am not worthy of your kind thoughts. Ayear ago I dwelt in a a beautiful house. I was the only son ofa rich merchant, and my father lavished all his love and wealth onme. But I was wicked. I was unkind to people, and I was cast forth andordered not to return until I had learned to Count Five. I have notyet learned. I am doomed to a wretched life. That is the whole of myhistory.""Strange," murmured the princess. "I will help thee if I can."Next day she came again to the shelter, and with her was the rabbi whohad given the prince good counsel. The rabbi made no sign that he hadseen the stranger before."This sage of the Jews is a wise man and will teach thee," said theprincess, and, at her bidding, the prince repeated what he had saidthe previous night."It is a simple lesson," said the rabbi, "so absurdly simple,unfortunately, that proud people overlook it. Tell me, my son," headded. "Hast thou experienced hunger?""That I have," returned the prince, sadly."Then canst thou count One. Dost thou know what it is to feel cold?""I do.""Two canst thou count. Tell me, further, dost thou know what kindnessof heart is?""That have I received from the poorest and also from the graciousprincess.""Thou hast proceeded far in thy lesson," said the rabbi. "Thou canstnow count Three. Hast thou ever felt gratitude?""Indeed I have, often during this past year, and now mostparticularly.""Four is now the toll of thy count," said the rabbi. "Tell me, my son,hast thou learned the greatest lesson of all? Dost thou feel humble inspirit?"With tears in his eyes, the prince answered, "I do, most sincerely.""Then hast thou truly learned to Count Five. Return to thy father. Hemust be a wise and just man to impose on thee this lesson. He willassuredly forgive thee. Go, with my blessing," and the rabbi raisedhis hands above the young man's head and uttered a benediction."Take also my good wishes," said the princess, and she offered him herhand to kiss."Gracious princess," he said, "it is not meet that a beggar in ragsshould speak what is in his heart. But I shall return, and if thoudeemest me worthy, perchance thou wilt grant a request that I shallmake.""Perchance," replied the princess, with a laugh.The prince made haste to return to his father's palace and related allhis adventures. The old man listened quietly, then he clasped his sonin his arms, forgave him, and proudly proclaimed him prince before allthe people again. He was a changed man, and nevermore guilty of acruel action.Before many months had passed, he returned to the city where he hadseen the princess, with a long retinue of attendants, all bearingpresents."Gracious princess," he said, when he had been granted an audience. "Isaid I would return.""Indeed! I know thee not."The prince told her of their former meeting and she seemed highlypleased."Now," he said, "put the crown on thy work which restored to me themanhood I had foolishly cast away by my conduct. I would make thee mybride, and with thee ever my guide and counselor, I shall be the mostfaithful of kings, and thou a queen of goodness and beauty and wisdomsuch as the world has not yet seen."The princess did not give her answer immediately, but in due courseshe did. and once again, the prince returned home, this time happierthan ever. Sitting by his side in the chariot of state, was theprincess, radiant in smiles, for the people welcomed her heartily,strewing flowers in her path. And ever afterward there was happinessthroughout the land.(: As the Shah raised his sword an old man steppedfrom behind the tree. (_Page 166_).)