In passing a cottage (in Northumberland) I remembered that an old woman had dwelt who was suspected of having caused the death of one of her children. I inquired of a person, a native of the village, who was with me, if he knew anything of the circumstance, and received from him the following account:I knew the woman, who is now where the Lord pleases, very well. She was the wife of a day tale * man, and they had more small bairns than they could well provide for. and in harvest she used to go out a shearing. One year, about the harvest time, she had a young bairn at the breast, which she thought was one too many. and that she might not be hindered of the shearing by staying at home with it, and that she might get rid of it altogether, she smothered it in the cradle.There was no public inquiry made, nor inquest held, but all her neighbours, especially the women folk, believed that the bairn was wilfully made away with, for she had the character of being a cold hearted mother. She never did well, though she lived for nearly forty years afterwards. She fell into a low way, and was, at times, almost clean past herself. She was always at the worst about the time of the harvest moon. and would then often walk about the house, and sometimes go out and wander about the common, all night, moaning and greeting in a fearful way.I have many a time seen her holding her head atween her hands, rocking herself backwards and forwards on a low chair, groaning and sighing, and every now and then giving an awful sort of shriek, which folks, who knew her best, said was her way when she fancied that she heard the bairn cry out in the same way that it did when she was smooring it. About the harvest time, she often used to see the spirit of the innocent that she had put to death, and her neighbours often heard her talking to it, bidding it to be gone, and not to torment her longer with its cries.She is now dead and in her grave, and has been many years. and whatever may be her punishment in the next world for taking away the life of a harmless bairn of her own flesh and blood, she certainly dreed a heavy penance in this.*A day tale man is a labourer not engaged by a master for a certain time, but working for any person who will employ him by the day or by the week.