There were once two companions who werehumpbacks, but one more so than the other. They were both so poorthat they had not a penny to their names. One of them said: "I willgo out into the world, for here there is nothing to eat. we are dyingof hunger. I want to see whether I can make my fortune." "Go,"said the other. "If you make your fortune, return, and I will go andsee if I can make mine." So the humpback set off on his journey.Now these two humpbacks were from Parma. When the humpback had gonea long way, he came to a square where there was a fair, at whicheverything was sold. There was a person selling cheese, who criedout: "Eat the little Parmesan!" The poor humpback thought he meanthim, so he ran away and hid himself in a courtyard. When it was oneo'clock, he heard a clanking of chains and the words "Saturday andSunday" repeated several times. Then he answered: "AndMonday." "Oh, heavens!" said they who were singing. "Who is thiswho has harmonized with our choir?" They searched and found thepoor humpback hidden. "O gentlemen!" he said, "I have not come hereto do any harm, you know!" "Well! we have come to reward you. youhave harmonized our choir. come with us!"They put him on a table and removed his hump, healed him, and gave himtwo bagsof money."Now," they said, "you can go." He thanked them and went away without hishump.He liked it better, you can believe! He returned to his place at Parma,and when the other humpback saw him he exclaimed: "Does not that lookjust like my friend? But he had a hump! It is not he! Listen! You arenot my friend so and so, are you?" "Yes, I am," he replied. "Listen!Were you not a humpback?" "Yes. They have removed my hump and given metwo bags of money. I will tell you why. I reached," he continued, "suchand such a place, and I heard them beginning to say, 'Eat the littleParmesan! Eat the little Parmesan!' I was so frightened that I hidmyself." (He mentioned the place   in a courtyard.) "At a certain hour,I heard a noise of chains and a chorus singing: 'Saturday and Sunday.'After two or three times, I said: 'And Monday.' They came and found me,saying that I had harmonized their chorus, and they wanted to reward me.They took me, removed my hump, and gave me two bags of money." "Oh,heavens!" said the other humpback. "I want to go there, too!" "Go,poor fellow, go! Farewell!" The humpback reached the place, and hidhimself precisely where his companion had. After a while he heard a noiseof chains, and the chorus: "Saturday and Sunday!" Then another chorus:"And Monday!" After the humpback had heard them repeat: "Saturday andSunday, and Monday!" several times, he added: "And Tuesday!" "Where,"they exclaimed, "is he who has spoiled our chorus? If we find him, wewill tear him in pieces." Just think! they struck and beat this poorhumpback until they were tired. then they put him on the same table onwhich they had placed his companion, and said: "Take that hump and put iton him in front." So they took the other's hump and fastened it to hisbreast, and then drove him away with blows. He went home and found hisfriend, who cried: "Mercy! Is not that my friend? But it cannot be, forthis one is humpbacked in front. Listen," he said, "are you not myfriend?" "The same," he answered, weeping. "I did not want to bear myown hump, and now I have to carry mine and yours! and so beaten andreduced, you see!" "Come," said his friend, "come home with me, and wewill eat a mouthful together. and don't be disheartened." And so, everyday, he dined with his friend, and afterward they died, I imagine.