(From the Japanische Marchen und Sagen, von David Brauns (Leipzig:Wilhelm Friedrich).)Once upon a time there lived a cat of marvellous beauty, with a skin assoft and shining as silk, and wise green eyes, that could see even inthe dark. His name was Gon, and he belonged to a music teacher, whowas so fond and proud of him that he would not have parted with him foranything in the world.Now not far from the music master's house there dwelt a lady whopossessed a most lovely little pussy cat called Koma. She was such alittle dear altogether, and blinked her eyes so daintily, and ate hersupper so tidily, and when she had finished she licked her pink nose sodelicately with her little tongue, that her mistress was never tired ofsaying, 'Koma, Koma, what should I do without you?'Well, it happened one day that these two, when out for an eveningstroll, met under a cherry tree, and in one moment fell madly in lovewith each other. Gon had long felt that it was time for him to find awife, for all the ladies in the neighbourhood paid him so much attentionthat it made him quite shy. but he was not easy to please, and did notcare about any of them. Now, before he had time to think, Cupid hadentangled him in his net, and he was filled with love towards Koma. Shefully returned his passion, but, like a woman, she saw the difficultiesin the way, and consulted sadly with Gon as to the means of overcomingthem. Gon entreated his master to set matters right by buying Koma, buther mistress would not part from her. Then the music master was asked tosell Gon to the lady, but he declined to listen to any such suggestion,so everything remained as before.At length the love of the couple grew to such a pitch that theydetermined to please themselves, and to seek their fortunes together.So one moonlight night they stole away, and ventured out into an unknownworld. All day long they marched bravely on through the sunshine, tillthey had left their homes far behind them, and towards evening theyfound themselves in a large park. The wanderers by this time were veryhot and tired, and the grass looked very soft and inviting, and thetrees cast cool deep shadows, when suddenly an ogre appeared in thisParadise, in the shape of a big, big dog! He came springing towards themshowing all his teeth, and Koma shrieked, and rushed up a cherry tree.Gon, however, stood his ground boldly, and prepared to give battle, forhe felt that Koma's eyes were upon him, and that he must not run away.But, alas! his courage would have availed him nothing had his enemy oncetouched him, for he was large and powerful, and very fierce. From herperch in the tree Koma saw it all, and screamed with all her might,hoping that some one would hear, and come to help. Luckily a servant ofthe princess to whom the park belonged was walking by, and he drove offthe dog, and picking up the trembling Gon in his arms, carried him tohis mistress.So poor little Koma was left alone, while Gon was borne away full oftrouble, not in the least knowing what to do. Even the attention paidhim by the princess, who was delighted with his beauty and pretty ways,did not console him, but there was no use in fighting against fate, andhe could only wait and see what would turn up.The princess, Gon's new mistress, was so good and kind that everybodyloved her, and she would have led a happy life, had it not been for aserpent who had fallen in love with her, and was constantly annoying herby his presence. Her servants had orders to drive him away as often ashe appeared. but as they were careless, and the serpent very sly, itsometimes happened that he was able to slip past them, and to frightenthe princess by appearing before her. One day she was seated in herroom, playing on her favourite musical instrument, when she feltsomething gliding up her sash, and saw her enemy making his way to kissher cheek. She shrieked and threw herself backwards, and Gon, who hadbeen curled up on a stool at her feet, understood her terror, and withone bound seized the snake by his neck. He gave him one bite and oneshake, and flung him on the ground, where he lay, never to worry theprincess any more. Then she took Gon in her arms, and praised andcaressed him, and saw that he had the nicest bits to eat, and thesoftest mats to lie on. and he would have had nothing in the world towish for if only he could have seen Koma again.Time passed on, and one morning Gon lay before the house door, baskingin the sun. He looked lazily at the world stretched out before him,and saw in the distance a big ruffian of a cat teasing and ill treatingquite a little one. He jumped up, full of rage, and chased away the bigcat, and then he turned to comfort the little one, when his heart nearlyburst with joy to find that it was Koma. At first Koma did not know himagain, he had grown so large and stately. but when it dawned upon herwho it was, her happiness knew no bounds. And they rubbed their headsand their noses again and again, while their purring might have beenheard a mile off.Paw in paw they appeared before the princess, and told her the story oftheir life and its sorrows. The princess wept for sympathy, and promisedthat they should never more be parted, but should live with her to theend of their days. By and bye the princess herself got married, andbrought a prince to dwell in the palace in the park. And she told himall about her two cats, and how brave Gon had been, and how he haddelivered her from her enemy the serpent.And when the prince heard, he swore they should never leave them, butshould go with the princess wherever she went. So it all fell out asthe princess wished. and Gon and Koma had many children, and so had theprincess, and they all played together, and were friends to the end oftheir lives.