Many many years ago there lived a king and queen who had one only son,called Sigurd. When the little boy was only ten years old the queen, hismother, fell ill and died, and the king, who loved her dearly, built asplendid monument to his wife's memory, and day after day he sat by itand bewailed his sad loss.One morning, as he sat by the grave, he noticed a richly dressed ladyclose to him. He asked her name and she answered that it was Ingiborg,and seemed surprised to see the king there all alone. Then he told herhow he had lost his queen, and how he came daily to weep at her grave.In return, the lady informed him that she had lately lost her husband,and suggested that they might both find it a comfort if they madefriends.This pleased the king so much that he invited her to his palace, wherethey saw each other often. and after a time he married her.After the wedding was over he soon regained his good spirits, and usedto ride out hunting as in old days. but Sigurd, who was very fond of hisstepmother, always stayed at home with her.One evening Ingiborg said to Sigurd: 'To morrow your father is going outhunting, and you must go with him.' But Sigurd said he would much ratherstay at home, and the next day when the king rode off Sigurd refused toaccompany him. The stepmother was very angry, but he would not listen,and at last she assured him that he would be sorry for his disobedience,and that in future he had better do as he was told.After the hunting party had started she hid Sigurd under her bed, andbade him be sure to lie there till she called him.Sigurd lay very still for a long while, and was just thinking it was nogood staying there any more, when he felt the floor shake under him asif there were an earthquake, and peeping out he saw a great giantesswading along ankle deep through the ground and ploughing it up as shewalked.'Good morning, Sister Ingiborg,' cried she as she entered the room, 'isPrince Sigurd at home?''No,' said Ingiborg. 'he rode off to the forest with his father thismorning.' And she laid the table for her sister and set food before her.After they had both done eating the giantess said: 'Thank you, sister,for your good dinner the best lamb, the best can of beer and the bestdrink I have ever had. but is not Prince Sigurd at home?'Ingiborg again said 'No'. and the giantess took leave of her and wentaway. When she was quite out of sight Ingiborg told Sigurd to come outof his hiding place.The king returned home at night, but his wife told him nothing of whathad happened, and the next morning she again begged the prince to goout hunting with his father. Sigurd, however, replied as before, that hewould much rather stay at home.So once more the king rode off alone. This time Ingiborg hid Sigurdunder the table, and scolded him well for not doing as she bade him.For some time he lay quite still, and then suddenly the floor began toshake, and a giantess came along wading half way to her knees throughthe ground.As she entered the house she asked, as the first one had done: 'Well,Sister Ingiborg, is Prince Sigurd at home?''No,' answered Ingiborg,' he rode off hunting with his father thismorning'. and going to the cupboard she laid the table for her sister.When they had finished their meal the giantess rose and said: 'Thank youfor all these nice dishes, and for the best lamb, the best can of beerand the nicest drink I have ever had. but is Prince Sigurd really notat home?''No, certainly not!' replied Ingiborg. and with that they took leave ofeach other.When she was well out of sight Sigurd crept from under the table, andhis stepmother declared that it was most important that he should notstay at home next day. but he said he did not see what harm could comeof it, and he did not mean to go out hunting, and the next morning, whenthe king prepared to start, Ingiborg implored Sigurd to accompany hisfather. But it was all no use, he was quite obstinate and would notlisten to a word she said. 'You will have to hide me again,' said he,so no sooner had the king gone than Ingiborg hid Sigurd between the walland the panelling, and by and by there was heard once more a sound likean earthquake, as a great giantess, wading knee deep through the ground,came in at the door.'Good day, Sister Ingiborg!' she cried, in a voice like thunder. 'isPrince Sigurd at home?''Oh, no,' answered Ingiborg, 'he is enjoying himself out there in theforest. I expect it will be quite dark before he comes back again.''That's a lie!' shouted the giantess. And they squabbled about it tillthey were tired, after which Ingiborg laid the table. and when thegiantess had done eating she said: 'Well, I must thank you for all thesegood things, and for the best lamb, the best can of beer and the bestdrink I have had for a long time. but are you quite sure Prince Sigurdis not at home?''Quite,' said Ingiborg. 'I've told you already that he rode off with hisfather this morning to hunt in the forest.'At this the giantess roared out with a terrible voice: 'If he is nearenough to hear my words, I lay this spell on him: Let him be halfscorched and half withered. and may he have neither rest nor peace tillhe finds me.' And with these words she stalked off.For a moment Ingiborg stood as if turned to stone, then she fetchedSigurd from his hiding place, and, to her horror, there he was, halfscorched and half withered.'Now you see what has happened through your own obstinacy,' said she.'but we must lose no time, for your father will soon be coming home.'Going quickly into the next room she opened a chest and took out a ballof string and three gold rings, and gave them to Sigurd, saying: 'If youthrow this ball on the ground it will roll along till it reaches somehigh cliffs. There you will see a giantess looking out over the rocks.She will call down to you and say: "Ah, this is just what I wanted!Here is Prince Sigurd. He shall go into the pot to night". but don't befrightened by her. She will draw you up with a long boat hook, and youmust greet her from me, and give her the smallest ring as a present.This will please her, and she will ask you to wrestle with her. When youare exhausted, she will offer you a horn to drink out of, and though shedoes not know it, the wine will make you so strong that you will easilybe able to conquer her. After that she will let you stay there allnight. The same thing will happen with my two other sisters. But, aboveall, remember this: should my little dog come to you and lay his paws onyou, with tears running down his face, then hurry home, for my life willbe in danger. Now, good bye, and don't forget your stepmother.'Then Ingiborg dropped the ball on the ground, and Sigurd bade herfarewell.That same evening the ball stopped rolling at the foot of some highrocks, and on glancing up, Sigurd saw the giantess looking out at thetop.'Ah, just what I wanted!' she cried out when she saw him. 'here isPrince Sigurd. He shall go into the pot to night. Come up, my friend,and wrestle with me.'With these words she reached out a long boat hook and hauled him up thecliff. At first Sigurd was rather frightened, but he remembered whatIngiborg had said, and gave the giantess her sister's message and thering.The giantess was delighted, and challenged him to wrestle with her.Sigurd was fond of all games, and began to wrestle with joy. but he wasno match for the giantess, and as she noticed that he was getting faintshe gave him a horn to drink out of, which was very foolish on her part,as it made Sigurd so strong that he soon overthrew her.'You may stay here to night,' said she. and he was glad of the rest.Next morning Sigurd threw down the ball again and away it rolled forsome time, till it stopped at the foot of another high rock. Then helooked up and saw another giantess, even bigger and uglier than thefirst one, who called out to him: 'Ah, this is just what I wanted! Hereis Prince Sigurd. He shall go into the pot to night. Come up quickly andwrestle with me.' And she lost no time in hauling him up.The prince gave her his stepmother's message and the second largestring. The giantess was greatly pleased when she saw the ring, and atonce challenged Sigurd to wrestle with her.They struggled for a long time, till at last Sigurd grew faint. so shehanded him a horn to drink from, and when he had drunk he became sostrong that he threw her down with one hand.On the third morning Sigurd once more laid down his ball, and it rolledfar away, till at last it stopped under a very high rock indeed, overthe top of which the most hideous giantess that ever was seen lookeddown.When she saw who was there she cried out: 'Ah, this is just what Iwanted! Here comes Prince Sigurd. Into the pot he goes this very night.Come up here, my friend, and wrestle with me.' And she hauled him upjust as her sisters had done.Sigurd then gave her his stepmother's message and the last and largestring. The sight of the red gold delighted the giantess, and shechallenged Sigurd to a wrestling match. This time the fight was fierceand long, but when at length Sigurd's strength was failing the giantessgave him something to drink, and after he had drunk it he soon broughther to her knees. 'You have beaten me,' she gasped, so now, listen tome. 'Not far from here is a lake. Go there. you will find a little girlplaying with a boat. Try to make friends with her, and give her thislittle gold ring. You are stronger than ever you were, and I wish yougood luck.'With these words they took leave of each other, and Sigurd wandered ontill he reached the lake, where he found the little girl playing witha boat, just as he had been told. He went up to her and asked what hername was.She was called Helga, she answered, and she lived near by.So Sigurd gave her the little gold ring, and proposed that they shouldhave a game. The little girl was delighted, for she had no brothers orsisters, and they played together all the rest of the day.When evening came Sigurd asked leave to go home with her, but Helga atfirst forbade him, as no stranger had ever managed to enter their housewithout being found out by her father, who was a very fierce giant.However, Sigurd persisted, and at length she gave way. but when theycame near the door she held her glove over him and Sigurd was at oncetransformed into a bundle of wool. Helga tucked the bundle under her armand threw it on the bed in her room.Almost at the same moment her father rushed in and hunted round in everycorner, crying out: 'This place smells of men. What's that you threw onthe bed, Helga?''A bundle of wool,' said she.'Oh, well, perhaps it was that I smelt,' said the old man, and troubledhimself no more.The following day Helga went out to play and took the bundle of woolwith her under her arm. When she reached the lake she held her gloveover it again and Sigurd resumed his own shape.They played the whole day, and Sigurd taught Helga all sorts of gamesshe had never even heard of. As they walked home in the evening shesaid: 'We shall be able to play better still to morrow, for my fatherwill have to go to the town, so we can stay at home.'When they were near the house Helga again held her glove over Sigurd,and once more he was turned into a bundle of wool, and she carried himin without his being seen.Very early next morning Helga's father went to the town, and as soonas he was well out of the way the girl held up her glove and Sigurd washimself again. Then she took him all over the house to amuse him, andopened every room, for her father had given her the keys before he left.but when they came to the last room Sigurd noticed one key on the bunchwhich had not been used and asked which room it belonged to.'Helga grew red and did not answer.'I suppose you don't mind my seeing the room which it opens?' askedSigurd, and as he spoke he saw a heavy iron door and begged Helga tounlock it for him. But she told him she dared not do so, at least if shedid open the door it must only be a very tiny chink. and Sigurd declaredthat would do quite well.The door was so heavy, that it took Helga some time to open it, andSigurd grew so impatient that he pushed it wide open and walked in.There he saw a splendid horse, all ready saddled, and just above ithung a richly ornamented sword on the handle of which was engravedthese words: 'He who rides this horse and wears this sword will findhappiness.'At the sight of the horse Sigurd was so filled with wonder that he wasnot able to speak, but at last he gasped out: 'Oh, do let me mount himand ride him round the house! Just once. I promise not to ask any more.''Ride him round the house!' cried Helga, growing pale at the mere idea.'Ride Gullfaxi! Why father would never, never forgive me, if I let youdo that.''But it can't do him any harm,' argued Sigurd. 'you don't know howcareful I will be. I have ridden all sorts of horses at home, and havenever fallen off not once. Oh, Helga, do!''Well, perhaps, if you come back directly,' replied Helga, doubtfully.'but you must be very quick, or father will find out!'But, instead of mounting Gullfaxi, as she expected, Sigurd stood still.'And the sword,' he said, looking fondly up to the place where it hung.'My father is a king, but he has not got any sword so beautiful as that.Why, the jewels in the scabbard are more splendid than the big ruby inhis crown! Has it got a name? Some swords have, you know.''It is called "Gunnfjoder," the "Battle Plume,"' answered Helga, 'and"Gullfaxi" means "Golden Mane." I don't suppose, if you are to get onthe horse at all, it would matter your taking the sword too. And if youtake the sword you will have to carry the stick and the stone and thetwig as well.''They are easily carried,' said Sigurd, gazing at them with scorn. 'whatwretched dried up things! Why in the world do you keep them?''Bather says that he would rather lose Gullfaxi than lose them,' repliedHelga, 'for if the man who rides the horse is pursued he has only tothrow the twig behind him and it will turn into a forest, so thick thateven a bird could hardly fly through. But if his enemy happens to knowmagic, and can throw down the forest, the man has only to strike thestone with the stick, and hailstones as large as pigeons' eggs will raindown from the sky and will kill every one for twenty miles round.'Having said all this she allowed Sigurd to ride 'just once' round thehouse, taking the sword and other things with him. But when he hadridden round, instead of dismounting, he suddenly turned the horse'shead and galloped away.Soon after this Helga's father came home and found his daughter intears. He asked what was the matter, and when he heard all that hadhappened, he rushed off as fast as he could to pursue Sigurd.Now, as Sigurd happened to look behind him he saw the giant coming afterhim with great strides, and in all haste he threw the twig behind him.Immediately such a thick wood sprang up at once between him and hisenemy that the giant was obliged to run home for an axe with which tocut his way through.The next time Sigurd glanced round, the giant was so near that he almosttouched Gullfaxi's tail. In an agony of fear Sigurd turned quickly inhis saddle and hit the stone with the stick. No sooner had he done thisthan a terrible hailstorm burst behind, and the giant was killed on thespot.But had Sigurd struck the stone without turning round, the hail wouldhave driven right into his face and killed him instead.After the giant was dead Sigurd rode on towards his own home, and on theway he suddenly met his stepmother's little dog, running to meet him,with tears pouring down its face. He galloped on as hard as he could,and on arriving found nine men servants in the act of tying QueenIngiborg to a post in the courtyard of the palace, where they intendedto burn her.Wild with anger Prince Sigurd sprang from his horse and, sword in hand,fell on the men and killed them all. Then he released his stepmother,and went in with her to see his father.The king lay in bed sick with sorrow, and neither eating nor drinking,for he thought that his son had been killed by the queen. He couldhardly believe his own eyes for joy when he saw the prince, and Sigurdtold him all his adventures.After that Prince Sigurd rode back to fetch Helga, and a great feast wasmade which lasted three days. and every one said no bride was ever seenso beautiful as Helga, and they lived happily for many, many years, andeverybody loved them.