There was once a hunter who used often to spend the whole nightstalking the deer or setting traps for game. Now it happened one nightthat he was watching in a clump of bushes near the lake for some wildducks that he wished to trap. Suddenly he heard, high up in the air, awhirring of wings and thought the ducks were coming. and he strung his bowand got ready his arrows.But instead of ducks there appeared seven maidens all clad in robesmade of feathers, and they alighted on the banks of the lake, and takingoff their robes plunged into the waters and bathed and sported in thelake. They were all beautiful, but of them all the youngest and smallestpleased most the hunter's eye, and he crept forward from the bushes andseized her dress of plumage and took it back with him into the bushes.After the swan maidens had bathed and sported to their heart's delight,they came back to the bank wishing to put on their feather robes again.and the six eldest found theirs, but the youngest could not find hers.They searched and they searched until at last the dawn began to appear,and the six sisters called out to her, "We must away. 'tis the dawn. youmeet your fate whatever it be." And with that they donned their robes andflew away, and away, and away.When the hunter saw them fly away he came forward with the feather robein his hand. and the swan maiden begged and begged that he would give herback her robe. He gave her his cloak but would not give her her robe,feeling that she would fly away. And he made her promise to marry him, andtook her home, and hid her feather robe where she could not find it. Sothey were married and lived happily together and had two fine children, aboy and a girl, who grew up strong and beautiful. and their mother lovedthem with all her heart.One day her little daughter was playing at hide and seek with herbrother, and she went behind the wainscoting to hide herself, and foundthere a robe all made of feathers, and took it to her mother. As soon asshe saw it she put it on and said to her daughter, "Tell father that if hewishes to see me again he must find me in the Land East o' the Sun andWest o' the Moon." and with that she flew away.When the hunter came home next morning his little daughter told himwhat had happened and what her mother said. So he set out to find his wifein the Land East o' the Sun and West o' the Moon. And he wandered for manydays until he came across an old man who had fallen on the ground, and helifted him up and helped him to a seat and tended him until he feltbetter.Then the old man asked him what he was doing and where he was going.And he told him all about the swan maidens and his wife, and he asked theold man if he had heard of the Land East o' the Sun and West o' the Moon.And the old man said, "No, but I can ask."Then he uttered a shrill whistle and soon all the plain in front ofthem was filled with all of the beasts of the world, for the old man wasno less than the King of the Beasts.And he called out to them, "Who is there here that knows where the Landis East o' the Sun and West o' the Moon?" But none of the beasts knew.Then the old man said to the hunter, "You must go seek my brother whois the King of the Birds," and told him how to find his brother.And after a time he found the King of the Birds, and told him what hewanted. So the King of the Birds whistled loud and shrill, and soon thesky was darkened with all the birds of the air, who came around him. Thenhe asked, "Which of you knows where is the Land East o' the Sun and Westo' the Moon?"And none answered, and the King of the Birds said, "Then you mustconsult my brother the King of the Fishes," and he told him how to findhim.And the hunter went on, and he went on, and he went on, until he cameto the King of the Fishes, and he told him what he wanted. And the King ofthe Fishes went to the shore of the sea and summoned all the fishes of thesea. And when they came around him he called out, "Which of you knowswhere is the Land East o' the Sun and West o' the Moon?"And none of them answered, until at last a dolphin that had come latecalled out, "I have heard that at the top of the Crystal Mountain lies theLand East o' the Sun and West o' the Moon. but how to get there I know notsave that it is near the Wild Forest."So the hunter thanked the King of the Fishes and went to the WildForest. And as he got near there he found two men quarrelling, and as hecame near they came towards him and asked him to settle their dispute."Now what is it?" said the hunter."Our father has just died and he has left but two things, this capwhich, whenever you wear it, nobody can see you, and these shoes, whichwill carry you through the air to whatever place you will. Now I being theelder claim the right of choice, which of these two I shall have. and hedeclares that, as the younger, he has the right to the shoes. Which do youthink is right?"So the hunter thought and thought, and at last he said, "It isdifficult to decide, but the best thing I can think of is for you to racefrom here to that tree yonder, and whoever gets back to me first I willhand him either the shoes or the cap, whichever he wishes."So he took the shoes in one hand and the cap in the other, and waiteduntil they had started off running towards the tree. And as soon as theyhad started running towards the tree he put on the shoes of swiftness andplaced the invisible cap on his head and wished himself in the Land Easto' the Sun and West o' the Moon. And he flew, and he flew, and he flew,over seven Bends, and seven Glens, and seven Mountain Moors, until at lasthe came to the Crystal Mountain. And on the top of that, as the dolphinhad said, there was the Land East o' the Sun and West o' the Moon.Now when he got there he took off his invisible cap and shoes ofswiftness and asked who ruled over the Land. and he was told that therewas a king who had seven daughters who dressed in swans' feathers and flewwherever they wished.Then the hunter knew that he had come to the Land of his wife. And hewent boldly to the king and said, "Hail, oh king, I have come to seek mywife."And the king said, "Who is she?"And the hunter said, "Your youngest daughter." Then he told him how hehad won her.Then the king said, "If you can tell her from her sisters then I knowthat what you say is true." And he summoned his seven daughters to him,and there they all were, dressed in their robes of feathers and lookingeach like all the rest.So the hunter said, "If I may take each of them by the hand I willsurely know my wife". for when she had dwelt with him she had sewn thelittle shifts and dresses of her children, and the forefinger of her righthand had the marks of the needle.And when he had taken the hand of each of the swan maidens he soonfound which was his wife and claimed her for his own. Then the king gavethem great gifts and sent them by a sure way down the Crystal Mountain.And after a while they reached home, and lived happily together everafterwards.