A rich woman sat up late one night carding and preparing wool while allthe family and servants were asleep. Suddenly a knock was given at thedoor, and a voice called out, "Open! Open!""Who is there?" said the woman of the house."I am the Witch of the One Horn," was answered.The mistress, supposing that one of her neighbours had called andrequired assistance, opened the door, and a woman entered, having in herhand a pair of wool carders, and bearing a horn on her forehead, as ifgrowing there. She sat down by the fire in silence, and began to cardthe wool with violent haste. Suddenly she paused, and said aloud, "Whereare the women. they delay too long?"Then a second knock came to the door, and a voice called as before,"Open! Open!"The mistress felt herself constrained to rise and open to the call, andimmediately a second witch entered, having two horns on her forehead,and in her hand a wheel for spinning wool."Give me place," she said. "I am the Witch of the Two Horns". and shebegan to spin as quick as lightning.And so the knocks went on, and the call was heard and the witchesentered, until at last twelve women sat round the fire the first withone horn, the last with twelve horns.And they carded the thread and turned their spinning wheels, and woundand wove.All singing together an ancient rhyme, but no word did they speak to themistress of the house. Strange to hear and frightful to look upon werethese twelve women, with their horns and their wheels. and the mistressfelt near to death, and she tried to rise that she might call for help,but she could not move, nor could she utter a word or a cry, for thespell of the witches was upon her.Then one of them called to her in Irish, and said, "Rise, woman, andmake us a cake." Then the mistress searched for a vessel to bring waterfrom the well that she might mix the meal and make the cake, but shecould find none.And they said to her, "Take a sieve, and bring water in it." And shetook the sieve, and went to the well. but the water poured from it, andshe could fetch none for the cake, and she sat down by the well andwept.Then came a voice by her, and said, "Take yellow clay and moss and bindthem together, and plaster the sieve so that it will hold."This she did, and the sieve held the water for the cake. and the voicesaid again:"Return, and when thou comest to the north angle of the house cry aloudthree times, and say, 'The mountain of the Fenian women and the sky overit is all on fire.'"And she did so.When the witches inside heard the call, a great and terrible cry brokefrom their lips, and they rushed forth with wild lamentations andshrieks, and fled away to Slievenamon, where was their chief abode. Butthe Spirit of the Well bade the mistress of the house to enter andprepare her home against the enchantments of the witches, if theyreturned again.And first, to break their spells, she sprinkled the water in which shehad washed her child's feet (the feet water) outside the door on thethreshold. secondly, she took the cake which the witches had made in herabsence, of meal mixed with the blood drawn from the sleeping family,and she broke the cake in bits, and placed a bit in the mouth of eachsleeper, and they were restored. and she took the cloth they had woven,and placed it half in and half out of the chest with the padlock. and,lastly, she secured the door with a great crossbeam fastened in thejambs, so that they could not enter, and having done these things shewaited.Not long were the witches in coming, and they raged and called forvengeance."Open! Open!" they screamed. "Open, feet water!""I cannot," said the feet water. "I am scattered on the ground, and mypath is down to the Lough.""Open, open, wood and trees and beam!" they cried to the door."I cannot," said the door, "for the beam is fixed in the jambs, and Ihave no power to move.""Open, open, cake that we have made and mingled with blood!" they criedagain."I cannot," said the cake, "for I am broken and bruised, and my blood ison the lips of the sleeping children."Then the witches rushed through the air with great cries, and fled backto Slievenamon, uttering strange curses on the Spirit of the Well, whohad wished their ruin. But the woman and the house were left in peace,and a mantle dropped by one of the witches was kept hung up by themistress as a sign of the night's awful contest. and this mantle was inpossession of the same family from generation to generation for fivehundred years after.LADY WILDE.