Nearly a thousand years ago in the town of Mayence, on the bank of theRhine, there dwelt a pious Jew of the name of Simon ben Isaac. Of amost charitable disposition, learned and ever ready to assist the poorwith money and wise counsel, he was reverenced by all, and it wasbelieved he was a direct descendant of King David. Everybody was proudto do him honor.Simon ben Isaac had one little son, a bright boy of the name ofElkanan, who he intended should be trained as a rabbi. Little Elkananwas very diligent in his studies and gave early promise of developinginto an exceptionally clever student. Even the servants in thehousehold loved him for his keen intelligence. One of them, indeed,was unduly interested in him.She was the Sabbath fire woman who only came into the house on theSabbath day to attend to the fires, because, as you know, the Jewishservants could not perform this duty. The Sabbath fire woman was adevoted Catholic and she spoke of Elkanan to a priest. The latter wasconsiderably impressed.(: "Thou canst only be my long lost son Elkanan!"(_Page 224_).)"What a pity," he remarked, "that so talented a boy should be a Jew.If he were a Christian, now," he added, winningly, "he could enter theHoly Church and become famous."The Sabbath fire woman knew exactly what the priest meant."Do you think he could rise to be a bishop?" she asked."He might rise even higher to be the Pope himself," replied thepriest."It would be a great thing to give a bishop to the Church, would itnot?" said the woman."It is a great thing to give anyone to the Church of Rome," the priestassured her.Then they spoke in whispers. The woman appeared a little troubled, butthe priest promised her that all would be well, that she would berewarded, and that nobody would dare to accuse her of doing anythingwrong.Convinced that she was performing a righteous action, she agreed to dowhat the priest suggested.Accordingly, the following Friday night when the household of Simonben Isaac was wrapped in slumber, she crept stealthily and silentlyinto the boy's bedroom. Taking him gently in her arms, she stolesilently out of the house and carried him to the priest who waswaiting. Elkanan was well wrapped up in blankets, and so cautiouslydid the woman move that he did not waken.The priest said not a word. He just nodded to the woman, and thenplaced Elkanan in a carriage which he had in waiting.Elkanan slept peacefully, totally unaware of his adventure, and whenhe opened his eyes he thought he must be dreaming. He was not in hisown room, but a much smaller one which seemed to be jolting andmoving, like a carriage, and opposite to him was a priest."Where am I?" he asked in alarm."Lie still, Andreas," was the reply."But my name is not Andreas," he answered. "That is not a Jewish name.I am Elkanan, the son of Simon."To his amazement, however, the priest looked at him pityingly andshook his head."You have had a nasty accident," he said, "and it has affected yourhead. You must not speak."Not another word would he say in response to all the boy's eagerqueries. He simply ignored Elkanan who puzzled his head over thematter until he really began to feel ill and to wonder whether he wasElkanan after all. Tired out, he fell asleep again, and next time heawoke he was lying on a bed in a bare room. A bell was tolling, and heheard a chanting chorus. By his side stood a priest.Elkanan looked at the priest like one dazed. Before he could utter aword, the priest said: "Rise, Andreas, and follow me."The boy had no alternative but to obey. To his horror he was takeninto a chapel and made to kneel. The priests sprinkled water on him.He did not understand what the service meant, and when it was over hebegan to cry for his father and mother. For days nobody took theslightest notice of his continual questionings until a priest, with aharsh, cruel face, spoke to him severely one day."I perceive, Andreas," he said, "thou hast a stubborn spirit. It shallbe curbed. Thy father and mother are dead all the world is dead tothee. Thou hast strange notions in thy head. We shall rid thee ofthem."Elkanan cried so much on hearing these terrible words that he madehimself seriously ill. How long he was kept in bed he knew not, butwhen he recovered, he found himself a prisoner in a monastery. All thepriests called him Andreas, they were kind to him, and in time hebegan to doubt himself whether he was Elkanan, the son of Simon, thepious Jew of Mayence.To put an end to the unrest in his mind, he devoted himself earnestlyto his lessons. His tutors never had so brilliant a pupil, nor sointelligent a companion. He was a remarkable chess player."Where did you learn?" they asked him."My father, Simon ben Isaac, of Mayence, taught me," he replied, witha sob in his voice."It is well," they replied, having received their instructions what tosay in answer to such remarks, "thou art blessed from Heaven, Andreas.Not only dost thou absorb learning in the hours of daylight, butangels and dead sages visit thee in they sleep and impart knowledgeunto thee."He could obtain no more satisfactory words from his tutors, and intime he made no mention whatever of the past, and his tutors andcompanions refrained from touching upon the subject either. Once ortwice he formed the idea of endeavoring to escape, but he soondiscovered the project impossible. He was never allowed to be alonefor a moment. he was virtually a prisoner, although all men began todo him honor because of his amazing knowledge and learning.In due time, he became a priest and a tutor and was even called toRome and was created a cardinal. He wore a red cap and cloak, peoplekneeled to him and sought his blessing, and all spoke of him as thewisest, kindliest and most scholarly man in the Church.He had not spoken of his boyhood for years, but he never ceased tothink of those happy days. And although he tried hard, he could notbelieve that it was all a dream. Whenever he played a game of chess,which was his one pastime, he seemed to see himself in his old room atMayence, and he sighed. His fellow priests wondered why he did this,and he laughingly told them it was because he had no idea how to losea game.Then a great event happened. The Pope died and Andreas was elected hissuccessor. He was placed on a throne, a crown was put upon his head,and he was called Holy Father. The power of life and death overmillions of people in many countries was vested in him. kings,princes and nobles visited him in his great palace to do him homage,and his fame spread far and wide. But he himself grew more thoughtfuland silent and sought only to exercise his great powers for thepeople's good.This, however, did not altogether please some of his counselors."The Church needs money," they told him. "We must squeeze it out ofthe Jews."But Andreas steadfastly refused to countenance any persecutions. Manyedicts were placed before him for his signature, giving permission tobishops in certain districts to threaten the Jews unless they paidhuge sums of money in tribute, but Andreas declined to assent to anyone of them.One day a document was submitted to him from the archbishop of theRhine district, craving permission to drive the Jews from the city ofMayence. The Pope's face hardened when he read the iniquitous letter.He gave instant orders that the archbishop should be summoned to Rome,and to the utter amazement of his cardinals he also commanded them tobring before him three leading Jews from Mayence, to state theircase."It shall not be said," he declared, "that the Pope issued a decree ofpunishment without giving the people condemned an opportunity ofdefending themselves."When the news reached Mayence there was great wailing and sorrow amongthe Jews, for, alas! bitter experience had taught them to expect nomercy from Rome. Delegates were selected, and when they arrived at theVatican they were asked for their names. These were given andcommunicated to the Pope."The delegates of the Jews of the city of Mayence," announced asecretary, "humbly crave audience of Your Holiness.""Their names?" demanded the Pope."Simon ben Isaac, Abraham ben Moses, and Issachar, the priest.""Let them enter," said the Pope, in a quiet, firm voice. He had heardbut one name. his plan had proved successful, for he had counted uponSimon being one of the chosen delegates.The three men entered the audience chamber and stood expectant beforethe Pope. His Holiness appeared to be lost in deep thought. Suddenlyhe aroused himself from his reverie and looked keenly at the agedleader of the party."Simon of Mayence, stand forth," he said, "and give voice to thy plea.We give thee attention."The old man approached a few paces nearer, and in simple, but eloquentlanguage, pleaded that the Jews should be permitted to remainunmolested in Mayence in which city their community had been longestablished."Thy prayer" said the Pope, when he had finished, "shall have fullconsideration, and my answer shall be made known to thee withoutdelay. Now tell me, Simon of Mayence, something of thyself and thyco delegates. Who are ye in the city?"Simon gave the information."Have ye come hither alone?" asked the Pope. "Or have ye been escortedby members of your families your sons?"The Pope's voice was scarcely steady, but none noticed."I have no son," said Simon, with a weary sigh."Hast thou never been blessed with offspring?"Simon looked sharply at the Pope before answering. Then, with bowedhead and broken voice, he said: "God blessed me with one son, but hewas stolen from me in childhood. That has been the sorrow of my life."The old man's voice was choked with sobs."I have heard," said the Pope, after a while, "that thou art famed asa chess player. I, too, am credited with some skill in the game. Iwould fain pit it against thine. Hearken! If thou prove the victor inthe game, then shall thy appeal prevail.""I consent," said the old man, proudly. "It is many years since I havesustained defeat."It was arranged that the game should be played that evening.Naturally, the strange contest aroused the keenest interest. The gamewas followed closely by the papal secretaries and the Jewishdelegates. It was a wonderful trial of subtle play. The two playersseemed about evenly matched. First one and then the other made adaring move which appeared to place his opponent in difficulties, buteach time disaster was ingeniously evaded. A draw seemed the likeliestresult until, suddenly, the Pope made a brilliant move which startledthe onlookers. It was considered impossible now for Simon to avoiddefeat.No one was more astounded at the Pope's move than the old Jew. He rosetremblingly from his chair, gazed with piercing eyes into the face ofthe Pope and said huskily, "Where didst thou learn that move? I taughtit to but one other.""Who?" demanded the Pope, eagerly."I will tell thee alone," said Simon.The Pope made a sign, and the others left the room in great surprise.Then Simon exclaimed excitedly, "Unless thou art the devil himself,thou canst only be my long lost son, Elkanan.""Father!" cried the Pope, and the old man clasped him in his arms.When the others re entered the room, the Pope said quietly, "We havedecided to call the game a draw, and in thankfulness for the rarepleasure of a game of chess with so skilled a player as Simon ofMayence, I grant the prayer of the delegates of that city. It is mywill that the Jews shall live in peace."Shortly afterward, a new Pope was elected. Various rumors gainedcurrency. One was that Andreas had thrown himself into the flames.another that he had mysteriously disappeared. And at the same time astranger arrived in Mayence and was welcomed by Simon joyfully as hisson, Elkanan.