Once upon a time there was a man up in Finnmark who had caught a largewhite bear, which he was going to take to the King of Denmark. It sohappened that he came to the Dovrefjell on Christmas Eve. He went to acottage where a man lived whose name was Halvor, and he asked the man forlodging for himself and his white bear."God bless us!" said the man, "but we can't give anyone lodging justnow, for every Christmas Eve the house is so full of trolls that we areforced to move out, and we'll have no shelter over our own heads, to saynothing of providing for anyone else.""Oh?" said the man, "If that's all, you can very well let me use yourhouse. My bear can sleep under the stove here, and I can sleep in thestoreroom."Well, he begged so hard, that at last he got permission to stay there.The people of the house moved out, but before they went, everything wasmade ready for the trolls. The table was set with cream porridge and fishand sausages and everything else that was good, just as for any othergrand feast.When everything was ready, in came the trolls. Some were large, andsome were small. Some had long tails, and some had no tails at all. Andsome had long, long noses. They ate and drank and tasted everything.Then one of the troll youngsters saw the white bear lying under thestove, so he took a piece of sausage, stuck it onto a fork, and went andpoked it against the white bear's nose, burning it. Then he shrieked,"Kitty, do you want some sausage?"The white bear rose up and growled, and then chased the whole pack ofthem out, both large and small.A year later Halvor was out in the woods at midday of Christmas Eve,gathering wood for the holidays, for he expected the trolls again. As hewas chopping, he heard a voice shouting from the woods, "Halvor!Halvor!""Yes?" said Halvor."Do you still have that big cat?""Yes," said Halvor. "She's lying at home under the stove, and what'smore, she now has seven kittens, far bigger and fiercer than she isherself.""Then, we'll never come to your place again," shouted the troll in thewoods, and since that time the trolls have never eaten their Yule porridgewith Halvor on the Dovrefjell."