Which Is the Most Delicate?Then the king went to the sissoo tree, put the goblin on his shoulder oncemore, and started toward the monk. And as he walked along, the goblin onhis shoulder said, "O King, I will tell you a strange story to relieveyour weariness. Listen."There once was a king in Ujjain, whose name was Virtue Banner. He hadthree princesses as wives, and loved them dearly. One of them was namedCrescent, the second Star, and the third Moon. While the king livedhappily with his wives, he conquered all his enemies, and was content.One day at the time of the spring festival, the king went to the garden toplay with his three wives. There he looked at the flower laden vines withblack rows of bees on them . they seemed like the bow of the god of love,all ready for service. He heard the songs of nightingales in the trees.they sounded like commands of Love. And with his wives he drank wine whichseemed like Love's very life blood.Then the king playfully pulled the hair of Queen Crescent, and alotus petal fell from her hair into her lap. And the queen was so delicatethat it wounded her, and she screamed and fainted. And the king wasdistracted, but when servants sprinkled her with cool water and fannedher, she gradually recovered consciousness. And the king took her to thepalace and waited upon his dear wife with a hundred remedies which thephysicians brought.And when the king saw that she was made comfortable for the night, he wentto the palace balcony with his second wife Star. Now while she slept onthe king's breast, the moonbeams found their way through the window andfell upon her.And she awoke in a moment, and started up, crying, "I am burned!"Then the king awoke and anxiously asked what the matter was, and he sawgreat blisters on her body. When he asked her about it, Queen Star said,"The moonbeams that fell on me did it."And the king was distracted when he saw how she wept and suffered. Hecalled the servants and they made a couch of moist lotus leaves, anddressed her wounds with damp sandal paste.At that moment the third queen, Moon, left her room to go to the king. Andas she moved through the noiseless night, she clearly heard in a distantpart of the palace the sound of pestles grinding grain. And she cried,"Oh, oh! It will kill me!"She wrung her hands and sat down in agony in the hall. But her servantsreturned and led her to her room, where she took to her bed and wept. Andwhen the servants asked what the matter was, she tearfully showed herhands with bruises on them, like two lilies with black bees clinging tothem. So they went and told the king. And he came in great distress, andasked his dear wife about it.She showed her hands and spoke, though she suffered, "My dear, when Iheard the sound of the pestles, these bruises came."Then the king made them give her a cooling plaster of sandal paste andother things. And the king thought, "One of them was wounded by a fallinglotus petal. The second was burned by the moonbeams. The third had herhands terribly bruised by the sound of pestles. I love them dearly, butalas! The very delicacy which is so great a virtue, is positivelyinconvenient."And he wandered about in the palace, and it seemed as if the night hadthree hundred hours. But in the morning the king and his skilfulphysicians took such measures that before long his wives were well and hewas happy.When he had told this story, the goblin asked, "O King, which of them wasthe most delicate?"And the king said, "The one who was bruised by the mere sound of thepestles, when nothing touched her. The other two who were wounded orblistered by actual contact with lotus petals or moonbeams, are not equalto her."When the goblin heard this, he went back, and the king resolutely hastenedto catch him again.