journeys and his route over the wastes, travelling with diligence bynight and day, until there remained between him and his country ajourney of three days. whereupon he sent forward a messenger to the KingSuleyman Shah to inform him of the approach of the bride. So themessenger hasted in his journey till he arrived in the presence of theKing, and acquainted him with the approach of the bride. and the Kingwas rejoiced, and bestowed a robe of honour upon the messenger, andordered his troops to go forth in grand procession to meet the bride andher attendants with honour, desiring them to equip themselves in thegayest manner, and to unfurl the standards over their heads. And theycomplied with his commands. and a crier proclaimed through the city,that no curtained damsel nor honoured lady nor infirm old woman shouldfail to go forth to meet the bride. So they all went forth to meet her,and the chief among them accompanied her to serve her. They decidedtogether to conduct her towards night to the King's palace, and thechief officers of the court agreed to decorate the streets, and to standwhile the bride passed by them with the eunuchs and female slaves beforeher, she herself being clad in the dress which her father gave her. Andwhen she approached, the troops surrounded her, ranged on the right andleft, and the litter advanced with her until it drew near to the palace.and there was no one who did not come forth to see it: the drums werebeaten, and the spears brandished, and the trumpets sounded, and sweetodours were diffused around, and the standards flapped, and the horsesraced with each other, until they arrived at the gate of the palace,when the pages advanced with the litter to the entrance of the areem:the palace was illuminated by its splendour, and its walls shone withthe lustre of its ornaments. and at night the eunuchs opened the doorsof the inner apartment, and stood surrounding the chief entrance. Thebride then came forward among the female slaves, like the moon among thestars, or the chief pearl among the minor pearls of the string, and sheentered the apartment, where they had placed for her a couch ofalabaster set with pearls and jewels. Upon this she seated herself, andthe King came in to visit her, and God inspired his heart with love forher, so that his disquietude and trouble ceased.He remained with her about a month, after which he went forth and satupon his throne, and administered justice to his subjects. and towardsdaybreak on the morning after the expiration of the ninth month, hiswife gave birth to a male child of an auspicious appearance. When theKing heard of it, he rejoiced exceedingly, and gave a large sum of moneyto the bearer of the good tidings. and in his joy he went to the child,and kissed him between the eyes, wondering at his surpassing beauty. Themidwives took him, and blackened the edges of his eyelids withkol.He was nourished on the bosom of indulgence, and reared in the lap ofprosperity, and days and years passed until he attained the age of sevenyears. whereupon the King Suleyman Shah summoned the men of learning andscience, and ordered them to instruct his son in writing and science andpolite literature, and they continued to do so for some years, until hehad learnt what was requisite. and when he was acquainted with all thatthe King desired, he caused him to be brought from the professors andteachers, and engaged for him a master to instruct him in horsemanship,who continued to teach him until his pupil was fourteen years of age.Whenever the youth went forth on any business, every one who beheld himwas ravished by his beauty, so that they composed verses in his praise,and even the women of virtue were overcome by love for him, through thesurpassing beauty with which he was endowed. And when he had attainedthe age of eighteen years, the grey down appeared upon a mole on his redcheek, while another mole, like a globule of ambergris, added to thesecharms, and he captivated the minds and eyes of his beholders. Hiscomeliness increased as he became a man, and he had companions andfriends, and every one who enjoyed access to him wished thatTaj el Mulook might be Sulan after the death of his father, and that hemight himself be one of his emeers.