In ancient days there lived in a remote part of Japan a man and his wife,and they were blessed with a little girl, who was the pet and idol of herparents. On one occasion the man was called away on business in distantKyoto. Before he went he told his daughter that if she were good anddutiful to her mother he would bring her back a present she would prizevery highly. Then the good man took his departure, mother and daughterwatching him go.At last he returned to his home, and after his wife and child had takenoff his large hat and sandals he sat down upon the white mats and openeda bamboo basket, watching the eager gaze of his little child. He tookout a wonderful doll and a lacquer box of cakes and put them into heroutstretched hands. Once more he dived into his basket, and presentedhis wife with a metal mirror. Its convex surface shone brightly, whileupon its back there was a design of pine trees and storks.The good man's wife had never seen a mirror before, and on gazing into itshe was under the impression that another woman looked out upon her asshe gazed with growing wonder. Her husband explained the mystery andbade her take great care of the mirror.Not long after this happy homecoming and distribution of presents thewoman became very ill. Just before she died she called to her littledaughter, and said: "Dear child, when I am dead take every care of yourfather. You will miss me when I have left you. But take this mirror,and when you feel most lonely look into it and you will always see me."Having said these words she passed away.In due time the man married again, and his wife was not at all kind toher stepdaughter. But the little one, remembering her mother's words,would retire to a corner and eagerly look into the mirror, where itseemed to her that she saw her dear mother's face, not drawn in pain asshe had seen it on her deathbed, but young and beautiful.One day this child's stepmother chanced to see her crouching in a cornerover an object she could not quite see, murmuring to herself. Thisignorant woman, who detested the child and believed that her stepdaughterdetested her in return, fancied that this little one was performing somestrange magical art perhaps making an image and sticking pins into it.Full of these notions, the stepmother went to her husband and told himthat his wicked child was doing her best to kill her by witchcraft.When the master of the house had listened to this extraordinary recitalhe went straight to his daughter's room. He took her by surprise, andimmediately the girl saw him she slipped the mirror into her sleeve. Forthe first time her doting father grew angry, and he feared that therewas, after all, truth in what his wife had told him, and he repeated hertale forthwith.When his daughter had heard this unjust accusation she was amazed at herfather's words, and she told him that she loved him far too well ever toattempt or wish to kill his wife, who she knew was dear to him."What have you hidden in your sleeve?" said her father, only halfconvinced and still much puzzled."The mirror you gave my mother, and which she on her deathbed gave tome. Every time I look into its shining surface I see the face of my dearmother, young and beautiful. When my heart aches and oh! it has achedso much lately I take out the mirror, and mother's face, with sweet,kind smile, brings me peace, and helps me to bear hard words and crosslooks."Then the man understood and loved his child the more for her filialpiety. Even the girl's stepmother, when she knew what had really takenplace, was ashamed and asked forgiveness. And this child, who believedshe had seen her mother's face in the mirror, forgave, and troubleforever departed from the home.