Princess Solima was sick, not exactly ill, but so much out of sortsthat her father, King Zuliman, was both annoyed and perturbed. Theprincess was as beautiful as a princess of those days should be. herlong tresses were like threads of gold, her blue eyes rivaled thecolor of the sky on the balmiest summer day. and her smile was asradiant as the sunshine itself.She was learned and clever, too, and her goodness of heart gained forher as great a renown as her peerless beauty. Despite all this,Princess Solima was not happy. Indeed, she was wretched todespondency, and her melancholy weighed heavily upon her father."What ails you, my precious daughter?" he asked her a hundred times,but she made no answer.She just sat and silently moped. She did not waste away, which puzzledthe physicians. she did not grow pale, which surprised herattendants. and she did not weep, which astonished herself. But shefelt as if her heart had grown heavy, as if there was no use inanything.The king squared his shoulders to show his determination and summonedhis magicians and wizards and sorcerers and commanded them to performtheir arts and solve the mystery of the illness of Princess Solima. Astrange crew they were, ranged in a semi circle before the king. Therewas the renowned astrologer from Egypt, a little man with a humpback.the mixer of mysterious potions from China, a long, lank yellow man,with tiny eyes. the alchemist from Arabia, a scowling man with hisface almost concealed by whiskers. there was a Greek and a Persian anda Phoenician, each with some special knowledge and fearfully anxiousto display it. They set to work.One studied the stars, another concocted a sweet smelling fluid, athird retired to the woods and thought deeply, a fourth made abstrusecalculations with diagrams and figures, a fifth questioned theprincess' handmaidens, and a sixth conceived the brilliant notion oftalking with the princess herself. He was certainly an originalwizard, and he learned more than all the others.Then they met in consultation and talked foreign languages andpretended very seriously to understand one another. One said the starswere in opposition, another said he had gazed into a crystal and hadseen a glow worm chasing a hippopotamus which a third interpreted asmeaning the princess would die if the glow worm won the race."Rubbish!" exclaimed the magician who had spoken to the princess."likewise stuff and nonsense and the equivalent thereof in the seventyunknown languages."That was an impertinent comment on their divinations, and so theylistened seriously."The princess," he said, "is just tired. That is a disease which willbecome popular and fashionable as the world grows older and morepeople amass riches. She is sick of being waited on hand and foot andbowed down to and all that sort of thing. She has never been allowedto romp as a child, to choose her own companions and the rest of it.Therefore, she is bored with all the etcetras. The case iscomprehensible and comprehensive: it needs the exercise of imaginationstimulated by prescience, conscience, patience...."The others yawned and began to collect dictionaries, and fearing thatthey might be tempted to fling them at him after they had found themeaning of his big words, he ceased."I agree," said the president of the assembly, the oldest wizard,"only I diagnose the disease in simpler form. The princess is inlove."That set them all jabbering together, and they finally agreed toreport to the king that the time had arrived when the princess shouldmarry, so that she should be able to go away to a new land, amid otherpeople and different scenes.The king agreed reluctantly, for he dearly loved his daughter andwished her to remain with him always if possible. Heralds andmessengers were sent out far and wide, and very soon a procession ofsuitors for the princess' hand began to file past the lady. They wereprinces of all shapes and sizes, of all complexions and colors. somewere resplendent with jewels, others were followed by retinues ofslaves bearing gifts. a few entered the competition by proxy that is,they sent somebody else to see the lady first and pronounce judgmentupon her. These she dismissed summarily, declaring that they weredisqualified by the rules of fair play.When all the entrants had been inspected by the king, he said to hisdaughter:"Pick the one you love the best, Solima dear.""None," she answered promptly."Dear, dear me that is very awkward. We shall have to return theentrance fees I mean the presents," he said.That prospect did not seem to worry the princess in the least. nor didher father's appeal not to belittle him in the eyes of his fellowmonarchs have the slightest effect on her."At least," he said, growing impatient, "tell me what you do want.""I will marry any man," she replied, while he wondered gravely whatelse she could have said, "who is not such a fool as to think himselfthe only person in the world who is of consequence."The king was not without wisdom, and he knew that this remark isfoolish, or sensible, according to the mood in which it is said, andthe thoughts behind it."You do not regard any one of the princes," the king said gently, "asworthy of  ""Any woman," interrupted his daughter. "Listen, my father, you havetried to make me happy always and until recently you have succeeded. Iwish to obey you in all things, even in the choice of a husband. Wouldyou really have me marry any one of these fools? Be not angry. Didany one reveal a gleam of wisdom, or common sense? Were they not alljust ridiculous fops? Let me enumerate:"There was Prince Hafiz who talked only of his wars of the men ayeand women and children his soldiers had butchered. The soldiersfought and Prince Hafiz posed before me as a warrior and hero. I willnot be queen in a land where people cannot live in peace."Then there was Prince Aziz who boasted that he spends all his lifewith his horses and dogs and falcons in the hunting field. He knowsthe needs of beasts, but not of men. I will not be the bride of aprince who allows his subjects to starve in wretchedness and povertywhile he enjoys himself with the slaughter of wild beasts."Prince Guzman had nothing else to impart to me but his taste injewels and dress. Prince Abdul knew exactly how many bottles of winehe drank daily, but he could not tell me how many schools there werein his city. Prince Hassan had not the slightest notion how themajority of his people lived, whether by trading, or thieving, orworking, or begging."King Zuliman listened intently. This was a singular speech for aprincess, but reason told him this was profoundest wisdom."Oh, I am tired," burst out Princess Solima, in tears. "I have nodesire for life if to be a ruler over men and women and children meansthat you must take no interest in their welfare. My father, hearken. Iwill not be queen in a land where the king thinks the people live onlyto make him great. I shall be proud and happy to reign where the kingunderstands that it is his duty to make his people happy and hiscountry prosperous and peaceful."The king left his daughter, and, deeply concerned, sought his wizards."My daughter has been born thousands of years before her time," hedeclared, petulantly. "The stars have played a trick on me, and havesent me my great great great great ever so much great granddaughterout of her turn."The magicians did not laugh at this: they thought it a wonderfullysage remark, and after much mysterious whispering among themselves andconsultation of old books, and gazing into crystals, they informed theking that the stars foretold that Princess Solima would marry a poorman!They flattered themselves on their cleverness in arriving at thisconclusion, which they deduced from the princess contempt forprinces.King Zuliman's patience was exhausted by this time. In a toweringrage, he told his daughter what the wizards had said, and when shemerely said, "How nice," he swore he would imprison her in hisfortress in the sea.His majesty meant it, too, and at once had the fortress, which stoodon a tiny island miles from land, luxuriously furnished and fitted upfor his daughter's reception. Thither she was conveyed secretly onenight, but to her father's disgust she made no protest."I shall be free for a while," she said, "of all the absurd flummeryof the palace."II.The people were sad when the princess disappeared. She had been goodand kind to them, had understood them, and they did not know whethershe had died, or had deserted them without a word of farewell, thoughthat was hardly possible. All that they knew was that the kingsuddenly became morose and sullen. Strangely enough, he began to takean interest in the poor. He asked them funny questions for a king.How did they earn money? What was their occupation? Had they anypleasures? And what were their thoughts?Young people laughed, but old men said the king intended to promotelaws which would do good. Anyway, the king's interest did make hissubjects happier, and the officers of state became very busy withprojects and schemes for improving trade, providing work and foreducating children."They do say," remarked one old woman, who kept an apple stall in themarket place, "that a law will be passed that the sun should shineevery day, and that it should never rain on the days of the market.Ah! that will be good," and she rubbed her hands at the prospect ofnot having to crouch under a leaky awning when the rain came peltingdown, or over a tiny fire in a brass bowl in the winter, to thaw herfrozen and benumbed hands.Even the laborers in the fields, who were mainly dull witted peoplewith no learning whatsoever, heard the news. and they actuallypondered over it and wondered whether it meant that they would nevermore be hungry and wretchedly clad.One who thought deeply was a shepherd lad. He loved to bask lazily inthe sun, to listen to the birds chirruping, and to all the sounds ofthe air and the fields and the forests. He seemed to understand them.the murmuring of the brooks on a warm day was like a gentle cradlesong lulling him to sleep. on a day when the wind howled, its sulkygrowl as it dashed over the stones warned him that floods might come,and that he must move his flocks to safer ground."I wonder," he mused, "if I shall learn to read the written word andeven to pen it myself. I could then write the song of the brook andthe birds, so that others should know it."And musing thus, he fell asleep. He slept longer than usual, and whenhe awoke, he was alarmed to see that the sun had set. Darkness wasfalling fast, and he had his flock to see safely home. The cows andsheep had begun to collect themselves as a matter of habit, and it wastheir noise that woke him. They were already trudging the well knownroute, and all he had to do in following was to see that none strayed,or tumbled into the brook.All went well until he came in sight of home. Then a huge bird, a ziz,bigger than several houses, appeared in the sky and swooped down onthe cows and sheep.The shepherd beat the monster off as long as he could with a bigstick, while the affrighted animals scampered hastily homeward. Theziz however, was evidently determined not to be balked of its prey.It dug its talons deep into the flanks of an ox that had stampeded inthe wrong direction and was lagging behind the others.The poor animal bellowed in pain, and the shepherd, rushing to therescue, seized it by the forelegs as it was being raised from theground. Curling his leg round the slender trunk of a tree, the youngman began a struggle with the ziz. The mighty bird, its eyes glowinglike two signal lamps, tried to strike at him with his tremendousbeak, one stroke of which would have been fatal.In the fast gathering darkness it missed, fortunately for theshepherd, but the thrust of the beak caught the upper part of the treetrunk. It snapped under the blow, and the shepherd was compelled torelease his hold. He still gripped tightly the forelegs of the ox, butwith naught now to hold it back, the great bird had no difficulty inrising into the air. Before he fully grasped what had happened, theshepherd found himself high above the trees.To release his hold would have meant destruction. He held on grimly,clutching the legs of the ox with all his might, and even swinging uphis feet to grip the hind legs of the animal.Higher and higher the ziz rose into the air, spreading its vast wingsmajestically, and flying silently and swiftly over the land. It madethe shepherd giddy to glance down at the ground scurrying rapidly pastfar below him. So he closed his eyes, but opening them again for amoment, he was horrified to notice that the bird was now flying overthe sea on which the moon was shining with silvery radiance. With aheavy sigh he gave himself up for lost, and began to consider whetherit would be better to release his hold and fall down and be drowned,rather than be devoured by the gigantic bird.Before he could make up his mind, the bird stopped, and the shepherdwas bumped down on something with such violence that for a moment hewas stunned. Looking around, when he regained his senses, he saw thathe was on the top of a tower in the sea. Beside him was the carcass ofthe ox. Above them stood the ziz, its eyes glowing like twin fires,its beak thrust down to strike.With a quick movement, the shepherd drew a knife which he carried inhis girdle, and struck at the opening of the descending beak. The birduttered a shrill cry of pain as the knife pierced its tongue, and in afew moments it had disappeared in the air. So swift was its flightthat almost instantly it was a mere speck in the moonlit sky.Thoroughly exhausted, the shepherd slept until awakened by the soundof a voice. Opening his eyes, he saw that the sun had risen. Above himstood a woman of ravishing beauty. He sprang to his feet and bowedlow."Who are you?" asked Princess Solima, for she it was. "And tell me howcame you here with this carcass of an ox, so distant from the land, sohigh up as this tower in the sea?""Of a truth I scarcely know," answered the shepherd. "It may be that Iam bewitched, or dreaming, for my adventure passes all belief," and herelated it.The princess made no comment, but motioned to him that he shouldfollow her. He did so and she placed food before him. He wasravenously hungry and did full justice to the meal. Then she led himto the bath chamber."Wash and robe thyself," she said, giving him some clothes, "and thenI have much to inquire of thee."The shepherd felt ever so much better when he had bathed, and thenattired in the strange garments she had given him, he appeared beforethe princess.She gazed at him so long and searchingly that he blushed in confusion."Thou art fair to look upon and of manly stature," said the princess.The shepherd could only stammer a reply, but after a while he said,"Fair lady, who and what thou art I know not. Such beauty as thine isthe right of princesses only. I am but a poor shepherd.""And may not a shepherd be handsome?" she asked. "Tell me: who hathlaid down a law that only royal personages may be fair to behold? Ihave seen princes of vile countenance."She stopped suddenly, for she did not wish to betray her secret. Theysat in a little room in the tower, unknown to the many guards downbelow, and, although the shepherd protested, the princess waited onhim herself, bringing him food, and cushions on which he could restthat night.Next morning they ascended the tower together."I come here every morning," said the princess."Why?" the shepherd asked."To see if my husband cometh," was the answer."Who is he?" asked the shepherd.The princess laughed."I know not," she said. "Some mornings when I have stood here andgrieved at my loneliness, I have felt inclined to make a vow that Iwould marry the first man who came hither."The shepherd was silent. Then he looked boldly into the princess' eyesand said: "Thou hast told me I am the first man who has come to thee.I am emboldened to declare my love for thee, a feeling that swept overme the moment my eyes beheld thee. Who thou art, what thou art, I knownot, I care not. Shall we be husband and wife?"The princess gave him her hand."It is ordained," she said, and thus their troth was plighted."We cannot remain here forever," said the princess, presently. "Canstthou, husband of my heart's choice, devise some means of escape?"He looked down at the carcass of the ox thoughtfully for a fewmoments."I have it," he exclaimed, excitedly. "It is a safe assumption thatthe monster bird that brought me will return for his meal. He can thencarry us away. If the heavens approve," he said, fervently, "thus itshall be."That very night the ziz returned and feasted on the ox, and while itwas fully occupied appeasing its hunger, the shepherd managed toattach strong ropes to its legs. To this he attached a large basket inwhich he and his bride made themselves comfortable with cushions. Nordid they forget to take a store of food.Toward morning the ziz rose slowly into the air, and the loversclutched each other tightly as the basket spun round and round. Thegiant bird did not seem to notice its burden at all, and after amoment it began a swift flight over the sea. After many hours a citybecame visible, and as it was approached the shepherd could note theexcitement caused by the appearance of the ziz. The bird was gettingtired, and having at last noticed the weight tied to its feet wasevidently seeking to get rid of it.Flying low it dashed the basket against a tower. The occupants fearedthey might be killed, but suddenly the cords snapped, the basketrested on the parapet of the tower, and the bird flew swiftly away.No sooner had the shepherd extricated himself and his bride from thebasket, than armed guards appeared. At sight of the princess theylowered their weapons and fell upon their faces."Inform my father I have returned," she said, and they immediatelyrose to do her bidding."Know you where you are?" asked the shepherd."Yes. this is the king's palace," was the reply.Soon the king appeared, and with almost hysterical joy he embraced hisdaughter."I am happy to see thee again," he cried. "I crave thy pardon forimmuring thee in the sea fortress. Thou shalt tell me all thyadventures."Then he caught sight of the shepherd."Who is this?" he demanded."Thy son in law, my husband," said the princess, her joy showing inher bright eyes."What prince art thou?" asked the king."A prince among men," answered the princess quickly. "A man withoutriches, who comes from the people and will teach us their needs andhow to rule them."The king bowed to the inevitable. He blessed his son in law anddaughter, appointed them to rule over a province, and they settleddown to make everybody thoroughly happy, contented and prosperous.(: Then the door slowly opened and a figure inwhite stood in the entry. (_Page 286_).)