The highway between Pateley Bridge and Grassington crosses, in theparish of Burnsall, the deep dell in which runs the small river Dibb, orDibble, by a bridge known in legend as the Devil's Bridge. It mightreasonably be supposed that Deep Dell Bridge, or Dibble Bridge, was thecorrect and desirable designation, but legend and local tradition will byno means have it so, and account for the less pleasant name in thefollowing manner.In the days when Fountain's Abbey was in its prime, a shoemaker andsmall tenant of part of the abbey lands, named Ralph Calvert, resided atThorp sub Montem, and journeyed twice a year along this road to pay hisrent to the abbot, dispose of the fruits of his six months' handiwork, andreturn the shoes entrusted to him on his previous visit for repair, andbring back with him, on his return, a bag well filled with others thatneeded his attention.The night before setting out on one of these occasions, he had afearful dream, in which he struggled with the devil, who, in this wild,rocky ravine, amid unpleasant surroundings, endeavored to thrust Ralphinto a bag, similar to the one in which he carried his stock in trade.This he and his wife feared boded no good. In the morning, however, hestarted on his journey, and duly reached the abbey, assisted at theservice, did his business with the abbot and brethren, and then started,with his well filled bag, on his return homewards.When he arrived near home, in the deep ravine, where on previousoccasions he had found but a small brook which he could easily ford, henow found a mountain torrent, through which he only with difficulty andsome danger made his way. Having accomplished the passage, he sat down torest and to dry his wetted garments. As he sat and contemplated the place,he could not but recall how exactly it corresponded with the spot seen inhis dream, and at which the author of evil had tried to bag him. Dwellingon this brought anything but pleasant thoughts, and to drive them away,and to divert his mind, he struck up a familiar song, in which the name ofthe enemy finds frequent mention, and the refrain of which was:Sing luck a down, heigh down,Ho, down derry.He was unaware of any presence but his own. But, to his alarm, anothervoice than his added a further line:Tol lol derol, darel dol, dolde derry.Ralph thought of his dream. Then he fancied he saw the shadow of a manon the road. Then from a projecting corner of a rock he heard a voicereading over a list of delinquents in the neighborhood, with whom he mustremonstrate   Ralph's own name among the rest. Not to be caughteavesdropping, Ralph feigned sleep. But after a time was aroused by thestranger, and a long conversation ensued, the upshot of which was, afterthey had entered into a compact of friendship, that Satan informed theshoemaker who he was and inquired of the alarmed man if there was anythingthat he could do for him.Ralph looked at the swollen torrent and thought of the danger he hadlately incurred in crossing it, and of his future journeys that way to theabbey. And then he said, "I have heard that you are an able architect. Ishould wish you to build a bridge across this stream. I know you can doit."At nightfall Ralph reached his home at Thorpe, and related hisadventure to his wife, and added, "In spite of all that is said againsthim, the Evil One is an honest gentleman, and I have made him promise tobuild a bridge at the Gill Ford on the road to Pateley. If he fulfils hispromise, St. Crispin bless him."The news of Ralph's adventure and of the promise soon spread among theneighbors, and he had no small amount of village chaff and ridicule tomeet before the eventful Saturday   the fourth day   arrived. At last itcame.Accompanied by thirty or forty of the villagers, Ralph made his way tothe dell, where, on arrival, picture their astonishment at the sight! Lo,a beautiful and substantial bridge spanned the abyss! Surveyor, and mason,and priest pronounced it to be perfect. The latter sprinkled it with holywater, caused a cross to be placed at each approach to it, and thendeclared it to be safe for all Christian people to use. So it remaineduntil the Puritan Minister of Pateley, in the time of the Commonwealth,discerning the story to be a Popish legend, caused the protecting crossesto be removed as idolatrous.After that time, neither the original builder nor any other personseems to have thought fit to keep the bridge in "good and tenantable"repair, and in time it fell into so disreputable and dangerous acondition, that the liberal and almost magic working native of the parish  Sir William Craven, Lord Mayor of London in the reign of the 1st James  took the matter in hand and built upon the old foundations a moreterrestrial, but not less substantial and enduring, structure.Still men call it the Devil's Bridge.