From the Japanische Marchen und Sagen.A long long time ago, an old couple dwelt in the very heart of a highmountain. They lived together in peace and harmony, although they werevery different in character, the man being good natured and honest, andthe wife being greedy and quarrelsome when anyone came her way that shecould possibly quarrel with.One day the old man was sitting in front of his cottage, as he was veryfond of doing, when he saw flying towards him a little sparrow, followedby a big black raven. The poor little thing was very much frightened andcried out as it flew, and the great bird came behind it terribly fast,flapping its wings and craning its beak, for it was hungry and wantedsome dinner. But as they drew near the old man, he jumped up, and beatback the raven, which mounted, with hoarse screams of disappointment,into the sky, and the little bird, freed from its enemy, nestled intothe old man's hand, and he carried it into the house. He stroked itsfeathers, and told it not to be afraid, for it was quite safe. but ashe still felt its heart beating, he put it into a cage, where it soonplucked up courage to twitter and hop about. The old man was fond ofall creatures, and every morning he used to open the cage door, and thesparrow flew happily about until it caught sight of a cat or a rat orsome other fierce beast, when it would instantly return to the cage,knowing that there no harm could come to it.The woman, who was always on the look out for something to grumble at,grew very jealous of her husband's affection for the bird, and wouldgladly have done it some harm had she dared. At last, one morning heropportunity came. Her husband had gone to the town some miles away downthe mountain, and would not be back for several hours, but before heleft he did not forget to open the door of the cage. The sparrow hoppedabout as usual, twittering happily, and thinking no evil, and all thewhile the woman's brow became blacker and blacker, and at length herfury broke out. She threw her broom at the bird, who was perched on abracket high up on the wall. The broom missed the bird, but knocked downand broke the vase on the bracket, which did not soothe the angry woman.Then she chased it from place to place, and at last had it safe betweenher fingers, almost as frightened as on the day that it had made itsfirst entrance into the hut.By this time the woman was more furious than ever. If she had dared,she would have killed the sparrow then and there, but as it was she onlyventured to slit its tongue. The bird struggled and piped, but there wasno one to hear it, and then, crying out loud with the pain, it flew fromthe house and was lost in the depths of the forest.By and bye the old man came back, and at once began to ask for his pet.His wife, who was still in a very bad temper, told him the whole story,and scolded him roundly for being so silly as to make such a fuss overa bird. But the old man, who was much troubled, declared she was a bad,hard hearted woman, to have behaved so to a poor harmless bird. then heleft the house, and went into the forest to seek for his pet. He walkedmany hours, whistling and calling for it, but it never came, and he wentsadly home, resolved to be out with the dawn and never to rest till hehad brought the wanderer back. Day after day he searched and called. andevening after evening he returned in despair. At length he gave up hope,and made up his mind that he should see his little friend no more.One hot summer morning, the old man was walking slowly under the coolshadows of the big trees, and without thinking where he was going,he entered a bamboo thicket. As the bamboos became thinner, he foundhimself opposite to a beautiful garden, in the centre of which stooda tiny spick and span little house, and out of the house came a lovelymaiden, who unlatched the gate and invited him in the most hospitableway to enter and rest. 'Oh, my dear old friend,' she exclaimed, 'howglad I am you have found me at last! I am your little sparrow, whoselife you saved, and whom you took such care of.'The old man seized her hands eagerly, but no time was given him to askany questions, for the maiden drew him into the house, and set foodbefore him, and waited on him herself.While he was eating, the damsel and her maids took their lutes, and sangand danced to him, and altogether the hours passed so swiftly that theold man never saw that darkness had come, or remembered the scolding hewould get from his wife for returning home so late.Thus, in dancing and singing, and talking over the days when the maidenwas a sparrow hopping in and out of her cage, the night passed away, andwhen the first rays of sun broke through the hedge of bamboo, theold man started up, thanked his hostess for her friendly welcome, andprepared to say farewell. 'I am not going to let you depart like that,'said she. 'I have a present for you, which you must take as a sign of mygratitude.' And as she spoke, her servants brought in two chests, oneof them very small, the other large and heavy. 'Now choose which of themyou will carry with you.' So the old man chose the small chest, and hidit under his cloak, and set out on his homeward way.But as he drew near the house his heart sank a little, for he knewwhat a fury his wife would be in, and how she would abuse him forhis absence. And it was even worse than he expected. However, longexperience had taught him to let her storm and say nothing, so he lithis pipe and waited till she was tired out. The woman was still raging,and did not seem likely to stop, when her husband, who by this time hadforgotten all about her, drew out the chest from under his cloak, andopened it. Oh, what a blaze met his eyes! gold and precious stones wereheaped up to the very lid, and lay dancing in he sunlight. At thesight of these wonders even the scolding tongue ceased, and the womanapproached, and took the stones in her hand, setting greedily asidethose that were the largest and most costly. Then her voice softened,and she begged him quite politely to tell her where he had spent hisevening, and how he had come by these wonderful riches. So he told herthe whole story, and she listened with amazement, till he came to thechoice which had been given him between the two chests. At this hertongue broke loose again, as she abused him for his folly in takingthe little one, and she never rested till her husband had described theexact way which led to the sparrow princess's house. When she had got itinto her head, she put on her best clothes and set out at once. But inher blind haste she often missed the path, and she wandered for severalhours before she at length reached the little house. She walked boldlyup to the door and entered the room as if the whole place belonged toher, and quite frightened the poor girl, who was startled at the sightof her old enemy. However, she concealed her feelings as well as shecould, and bade the intruder welcome, placing before her food and wine,hoping that when she had eaten and drunk she might take her leave. Butnothing of the sort.'You will not let me go without a little present?' said the greedy wife,as she saw no signs of one being offered her. 'Of course not,' repliedthe girl, and at her orders two chests were brought in, as they had beenbefore. The old woman instantly seized the bigger, and staggering underthe weight of it, disappeared into the forest, hardly waiting even tosay good bye.It was a long way to her own house, and the chest seemed to grow heavierat every step. Sometimes she felt as if it would be impossible forher to get on at all, but her greed gave her strength, and at last shearrived at her own door. She sank down on the threshold, overcome withweariness, but in a moment was on her feet again, fumbling with the lockof the chest. But by this time night had come, and there was no light inthe house, and the woman was in too much hurry to get to her treasures,to go and look for one. At length, however, the lock gave way, andthe lid flew open, when, O horror! instead of gold and jewels, she sawbefore her serpents with glittering eyes and forky tongues. And theytwined themselves about her and darted poison into her veins, and shedied, and no man regretted her.