A peasant's wife died, and after she had been buried and mourned, the peasant said to his son, "Hans, I don't want to marry again. See that you find a housewife."This saddened Hans, for he had no desire to get married.The father became angry and said, "Why are you making such a sour face?"Hans replied, "I don't want to get married. I won't even think of it.""Why not?" asked the father angrily. "Didn't I get married, and didn't it serve me well?""I believe you," answered the son, "but you had my blessed mother. Do you want me to live with a total stranger?"Whatever the father said, he could not talk Hans into getting married, so he himself fetched a new wife into the household. This was a great misfortune for Hans, for when the stepmother gave birth to her own son, she succeeded in sowing discord between Hans and his father, until finally Hans was forced to leave home. He took a sausage from the smoking rack, cut a sturdy stick from his father's bush, then wandered off into the wide world.Toward evening he came into a large forest, lost his way, and was in great distress. He heard a rustling in the brush and a gray dwarf stepped forward, saying, "I'm hungry. Give me something to eat!"Hans reached into his pocket, pulled out the sausage, and gave it to the dwarf. Then the dwarf reached into his pocket, pulled out a transverse flute, then gave it to Hans, saying, "If you are in need, just blow!"With that the dwarf disappeared.Has was tired, so he lay down in the grass and fell asleep. The next morning he wandered further, and when he became hungry he blew on the flute. Two large wolfhounds suddenly appeared. the one had a sausage in his mouth, the other a loaf of bread. Hans ate until he was full, then wandered onward.Toward evening a wolf approached him and threatened to tear him apart. Hans blew on his flute and the dogs suddenly appeared and tore the wolf apart. The next day he again blew on the flute when he was hungry, and the dogs brought him bread and sausage. The same thing happened on the third day. And, when a bear attacked him toward evening on the second day, he blew on the flute, and the dogs appeared and tore the bear apart.Toward evening on the third day he came to a cave. A cannibal woman lived there with her son. Hans asked them for shelter, which they gladly offered him, for they intended to strangle him in the night, and then eat him. Time went by slowly for him, but that night when they came into his room to kill him, he blew on his flute. The dogs appeared and tore the cannibal and her son to pieces.When Hans awoke the next morning he found himself in the middle of a large city. during the night the dogs had carried him there.The innkeeper came to him and said, "Have you heard the news? Last night the dragon carried the princess away. Whoever can rescue her can have her and become king."Hans went out and followed the dragon's tracks. Before long he found himself back in the great forest. The dragon was lying beneath a large oak tree, and the princess was petting his head. Hans pulled the princess away. The dragon woke up and attempted to eat Hans. He blew on his flute. The dogs appeared and tore the dragon apart.Hans took the princess to her father, who said to him, "Do you want her?""Yes," said Hans. "She looks like my mother, only younger and more noble. Therefore I would like her."Then they married and lived many years together in peace and joy.