A mother sat by her little child. she was very sad, for she fearedit would die. It was quite pale, and its little eyes were closed,and sometimes it drew a heavy deep breath, almost like a sigh. andthen the mother gazed more sadly than ever on the poor littlecreature. Some one knocked at the door, and a poor old man walkedin. He was wrapped in something that looked like a greathorse cloth. and he required it truly to keep him warm, for it wascold winter. the country everywhere lay covered with snow and ice, andthe wind blew so sharply that it cut one's face. The little childhad dozed off to sleep for a moment, and the mother, seeing that theold man shivered with the cold, rose and placed a small mug of beer onthe stove to warm for him. The old man sat and rocked the cradle.and the mother seated herself on a chair near him, and looked at hersick child who still breathed heavily, and took hold of its littlehand."You think I shall keep him, do you not?" she said. "Our all mercifulGod will surely not take him away from me."The old man, who was indeed Death himself, nodded his head in apeculiar manner, which might have signified either Yes, or No. and themother cast down her eyes, while the tears rolled down her cheeks.Then her head became heavy, for she had not closed her eyes forthree days and nights, and she slept, but only for a moment. Shiveringwith cold, she started up and looked round the room. The old man wasgone, and her child it was gone too! the old man had taken it withhim. In the corner of the room the old clock began to strike."whirr" went the chains, the heavy weight sank to the ground, andthe clock stopped. and the poor mother rushed out of the house callingfor her child. Out in the snow sat a woman in long black garments, andshe said to the mother, "Death has been with you in your room. I sawhim hastening away with your little child. he strides faster thanthe wind, and never brings back what he has taken away.""Only tell me which way he has gone," said the mother. "tell me theway, I will find him.""I know the way," said the woman in the black garments. "butbefore I tell you, you must sing to me all the songs that you havesung to your child. I love these songs, I have heard them before. I amNight, and I saw your tears flow as you sang.""I will sing them all to you," said the mother. "but do not detainme now. I must overtake him, and find my child."But Night sat silent and still. Then the mother wept and sang, andwrung her hands. And there were many songs, and yet even more tears.till at length Night said, "Go to the right, into the dark forest offir trees. for I saw Death take that road with your little child."Within the wood the mother came to cross roads, and she knew notwhich to take. Just by stood a thorn bush. it had neither leaf norflower, for it was the cold winter time, and icicles hung on thebranches. "Have you not seen Death go by, with my little child?" sheasked."Yes," replied the thorn bush. "but I will not tell you whichway he has taken until you have warmed me in your bosom. I am freezingto death here, and turning to ice."Then she pressed the bramble to her bosom quite close, so thatit might be thawed, and the thorns pierced her flesh, and greatdrops of blood flowed. but the bramble shot forth fresh greenleaves, and they became flowers on the cold winter's night, so warm isthe heart of a sorrowing mother. Then the bramble bush told her thepath she must take. She came at length to a great lake, on which therewas neither ship nor boat to be seen. The lake was not frozensufficiently for her to pass over on the ice, nor was it open enoughfor her to wade through. and yet she must cross it, if she wished tofind her child. Then she laid herself down to drink up the water ofthe lake, which was of course impossible for any human being to do.but the bereaved mother thought that perhaps a miracle might takeplace to help her. "You will never succeed in this," said the lake."let us make an agreement together which will be better. I love tocollect pearls, and your eyes are the purest I have ever seen. Ifyou will weep those eyes away in tears into my waters, then I willtake you to the large hothouse where Death dwells and rears flowersand trees, every one of which is a human life.""Oh, what would I not give to reach my child!" said the weepingmother. and as she still continued to weep, her eyes fell into thedepths of the lake, and became two costly pearls.Then the lake lifted her up, and wafted her across to the oppositeshore as if she were on a swing, where stood a wonderful building manymiles in length. No one could tell whether it was a mountain coveredwith forests and full of caves, or whether it had been built. Butthe poor mother could not see, for she had wept her eyes into thelake. "Where shall I find Death, who went away with my littlechild?" she asked."He has not arrived here yet," said an old gray haired woman,who was walking about, and watering Death's hothouse. "How have youfound your way here? and who helped you?""God has helped me," she replied. "He is merciful. will you not bemerciful too? Where shall I find my little child?""I did not know the child," said the old woman. "and you areblind. Many flowers and trees have faded to night, and Death will sooncome to transplant them. You know already that every human being has alife tree or a life flower, just as may be ordained for him. They looklike other plants. but they have hearts that beat. Children's heartsalso beat: from that you may perhaps be able to recognize yourchild. But what will you give me, if I tell you what more you willhave to do?"I have nothing to give," said the afflicted mother. "but Iwould go to the ends of the earth for you.""I can give you nothing to do for me there," said the old woman."but you can give me your long black hair. You know yourself that itis beautiful, and it pleases me. You can take my white hair inexchange, which will be something in return.""Do you ask nothing more than that?" said she. "I will give itto you with pleasure."And she gave up her beautiful hair, and received in return thewhite locks of the old woman. Then they went into Death's vasthothouse, where flowers and trees grew together in wonderfulprofusion. Blooming hyacinths, under glass bells, and peonies, likestrong trees. There grew water plants, some quite fresh, and otherslooking sickly, which had water snakes twining round them, and blackcrabs clinging to their stems. There stood noble palm trees, oaks, andplantains, and beneath them bloomed thyme and parsley. Each tree andflower had a name. each represented a human life, and belonged tomen still living, some in China, others in Greenland, and in all partsof the world. Some large trees had been planted in little pots, sothat they were cramped for room, and seemed about to burst the potto pieces. while many weak little flowers were growing in rich soil,with moss all around them, carefully tended and cared for. Thesorrowing mother bent over the little plants, and heard the humanheart beating in each, and recognized the beatings of her child'sheart among millions of others."That is it," she cried, stretching out her hand towards alittle crocus flower which hung down its sickly head."Do not touch the flower," exclaimed the old woman. "but placeyourself here. and when Death comes I expect him every minute do notlet him pull up that plant, but threaten him that if he does youwill serve the other flowers in the same manner. This will make himafraid. for he must account to God for each of them. None can beuprooted, unless he receives permission to do so."There rushed through the hothouse a chill of icy coldness, and theblind mother felt that Death had arrived."How did you find your way hither?" asked he. "how could youcome here faster than I have?""I am a mother," she answered.And Death stretched out his hand towards the delicate littleflower. but she held her hands tightly round it, and held it fast atsame time, with the most anxious care, lest she should touch one ofthe leaves. Then Death breathed upon her hands, and she felt hisbreath colder than the icy wind, and her hands sank down powerless."You cannot prevail against me," said Death."But a God of mercy can," said she."I only do His will," replied Death. "I am his gardener. I takeall His flowers and trees, and transplant them into the gardens ofParadise in an unknown land. How they flourish there, and what thatgarden resembles, I may not tell you.""Give me back my child," said the mother, weeping and imploring.and she seized two beautiful flowers in her hands, and cried to Death,"I will tear up all your flowers, for I am in despair.""Do not touch them," said Death. "You say you are unhappy. andwould you make another mother as unhappy as yourself?""Another mother!" cried the poor woman, setting the flowers freefrom her hands."There are your eyes," said Death. "I fished them up out of thelake for you. They were shining brightly. but I knew not they wereyours. Take them back they are clearer now than before and then lookinto the deep well which is close by here. I will tell you the namesof the two flowers which you wished to pull up. and you will see thewhole future of the human beings they represent, and what you wereabout to frustrate and destroy."Then she looked into the well. and it was a glorious sight tobehold how one of them became a blessing to the world, and how muchhappiness and joy it spread around. But she saw that the life of theother was full of care and poverty, misery and woe."Both are the will of God," said Death."Which is the unhappy flower, and which is the blessed one?" shesaid."That I may not tell you," said Death. "but thus far you maylearn, that one of the two flowers represents your own child. It wasthe fate of your child that you saw, the future of your own child."Then the mother screamed aloud with terror, "Which of them belongsto my child? Tell me that. Deliver the unhappy child. Release itfrom so much misery. Rather take it away. Take it to the kingdom ofGod. Forget my tears and my entreaties. forget all that I have said ordone.""I do not understand you," said Death. "Will you have your childback? or shall I carry him away to a place that you do not know?"Then the mother wrung her hands, fell on her knees, and prayedto God, "Grant not my prayers, when they are contrary to Thy will,which at all times must be the best. Oh, hear them not." and herhead sank on her bosom.Then Death carried away her child to the unknown land.