There was a report that the Fians (Fingalians) were asleep in thisrock, and that if anyone would enter it a blow the wooden crier (whistle),which lay beside Finn, three times, they would rise up alive and well asthey formerly were.A smith who lived in the island heard the report, and resolved that hewould attempt to enter the rock. He reached the place where it was. and,having formed a good idea of the keyhole, he returned to the smithy, andmade a key which fitted the hole. He then went back to the rock, and, assoon as he turned the key in the hole, the door opened, and he saw a verygreat and wide place before him, and exceedingly big men lying on thefloor. One man, bigger than the rest, was lying in their midst, having alarge hollow baton of wood lying beside him.He thought that this was the wooden crier (whistle), but it was solarge that he was afraid that he could not lift it, much less blow it. Hestood for a time looking at it, but he at last said to himself that, as hecame so far, he would try at any rate. He laid hold of the wooden crier,and with difficulty raised its end up to his mouth. He blew it with allhis might, and so loud was the sound it produced that he thought the rockand all that was over it came down on the top of him.The huge unwieldy men who lay on the floor shook from the tops of theirheads to the soles of their feet. He gave another blast on the woodencrier, and with one spring they turned on their elbows. Their fingers werelike the prongs of wooden grapes (large forks used in sea harvesting), andtheir arms like beams of bog oak. Their size and the terrible appearancethey had put him in such fear that he threw the wooden crier from him, andsprang out.They were then crying after him, "Worse have you left us than as youfound us."But he looked not behind him until he got outside and shut the door. Hethen drew the key out of the hole, and threw it out into the lake which isnear the rock, and which is called to this day the Lake of the Smith'sRock.