Once Allah endowed a wealthy husbandman with the ability to understandthe language of every kind of beast and bird, commanding him, under painof death, never to divulge this gift. Fearing for his life, the husbandmanguarded the secret well.One day while observing his animals, he heard a bull say to a donkey,"Lucky one, you enjoy the best of care, while I suffer all manner of illtreatment. I toil under the yoke by day, receive but a meager ration ofbeans and straw, and must lie at night in a filthy stall. You, bycomparison, eat well and lie about at ease unless the master chooses toride you into town, which happens seldom enough, and even then he returnswith you straight away.""You fool," replied the donkey. "You could have an easier life, if youwould only feign illness. When they next take you to your stall, fall tothe ground, puff out your belly, and refuse to eat. This will surely bringa reprieve from your accustomed blows and toil."The bull did as the donkey recommended and pretended to be sick.However, the master, who had overheard their conversation, responded bybinding the wily donkey to the plow and forcing him to do the bull's work.The donkey, unaccustomed to such labor, suffered greatly under the yokeand the plowman's stick, while the bull enjoyed a day of rest. At day'send, the donkey, nearly dead from exertion and blows, came quickly to anew plan. "My friend," he said to the bull, "you have a bleak future ifyou do not soon recover your strength. I heard the master say that heintends to deliver you to the butcher, who will turn your flesh into meatfor the poor and your hide into a leather mat." The husbandman heard thisall.The next morning the husbandman, accompanied by his wife, approachedthe bull in his stall. The beast gave a great show of health and vigor,whisking his tail, farting, and frisking lustily about. The master,greatly amused at the turn of events, broke into laughter."Why do you laugh?" asked his wife."I cannot tell you, lest I die." replied the man."So be it," answered the woman, "but I must know why you laughed." Shecontinued to wheedle and to beg, until he, sensing that he could notforever resist her unrelenting pleas, resigned himself to his fate. Hebrought his affairs to order, then prepared to reveal his secret and todie.Now the husbandman had some fifty hens, all serviced by one rooster. Therooster, lustily mounting one hen after the other, was interrupted by one ofthe farm dogs, who said, "For shame, that you thus satisfy your lust onthis day that our master is to die."The rooster replied, "What sort of master do we have, who cannot manage asingle wife? I control fifty hens.""And what should the master do?" asked the dog."He should cut a branch from yonder mulberry tree then use it on herback and ribs until she repents. Then let him give her another beating forgood measure, and henceforth he will sleep well and enjoy life."The husbandman heard this conversation between the dog and the rooster,and he took it to heart. He cut a branch from the mulberry tree andproceeded with it to his wife's room. Locking the door behind him, heannounced that he was about to reveal his secret to her, but then began tobeat her soundly about her back, shoulders, ribs, arms, and legs, all thewhile saying, "Are you ever again going to ask questions about mattersthat do not concern you?" Nearly senseless, she finally cried out, "Irepent! With Allah as a witness, I will never again question you." Shethen kissed his hands and his feet, and he led her from the room assubmissive as a wife should be. Her parents and other members of thefamily rejoiced at the turn of events.Thus the husbandman learned family discipline from his rooster, and he andhis wife lived together the happiest of lives until they died.