Once upon a time there lived a poor widow who had one little boy. Atfirst sight you would not have thought that he was different from athousand other little boys. but then you noticed that by his side hungthe scabbard of a sword, and as the boy grew bigger the scabbard grewbigger too. The sword which belonged to the scabbard was found by thelittle boy sticking out of the ground in the garden, and every day hepulled it up to see if it would go into the scabbard. But though itwas plainly becoming longer and longer, it was some time before the twowould fit.However, there came a day at last when it slipped in quite easily. Thechild was so delighted that he could hardly believe his eyes, so hetried it seven times, and each time it slipped in more easily thanbefore. But pleased though the boy was, he determined not to tell anyoneabout it, particularly not his mother, who never could keep anythingfrom her neighbours.Still, in spite of his resolutions, he could not hide altogether thatsomething had happened, and when he went in to breakfast his motherasked him what was the matter.'Oh, mother, I had such a nice dream last night,' said he. 'but I can'ttell it to anybody.''You can tell it to me,' she answered. 'It must have been a nice dream,or you wouldn't look so happy.''No, mother. I can't tell it to anybody,' returned the boy, 'till itcomes true.''I want to know what it was, and know it I will,' cried she, 'and I willbeat you till you tell me.'But it was no use, neither words nor blows would get the secret out ofthe boy. and when her arm was quite tired and she had to leave off, thechild, sore and aching, ran into the garden and knelt weeping beside hislittle sword. It was working round and round in its hole all by itself,and if anyone except the boy had tried to catch hold of it, he wouldhave been badly cut. But the moment he stretched out his hand it stoppedand slid quietly into the scabbard.For a long time the child sat sobbing, and the noise was heard by theking as he was driving by. 'Go and see who it is that is crying so,'said he to one of his servants, and the man went. In a few minutes hereturned saying: 'Your Majesty, it is a little boy who is kneeling theresobbing because his mother has beaten him.''Bring him to me at once,' commanded the monarch, 'and tell him that itis the king who sends for him, and that he has never cried in all hislife and cannot bear anyone else to do so.' On receiving this messagethe boy dried his tears and went with the servant to the royal carriage.'Will you be my son?' asked the king.'Yes, if my mother will let me,' answered the boy. And the king bade theservant go back to the mother and say that if she would give her boy tohim, he should live in the palace and marry his prettiest daughter assoon as he was a man.The widow's anger now turned into joy, and she came running to thesplendid coach and kissed the king's hand. 'I hope you will be moreobedient to his Majesty than you were to me,' she said. and the boyshrank away half frightened. But when she had gone back to her cottage,he asked the king if he might fetch something that he had left in thegarden, and when he was given permission, he pulled up his little sword,which he slid into the scabbard.Then he climbed into the coach and was driven away.After they had gone some distance the king said: 'Why were you crying sobitterly in the garden just now?''Because my mother had been beating me,' replied the boy.'And what did she do that for?' asked the king again.'Because I would not tell her my dream.''And why wouldn't you tell it to her?''Because I will never tell it to anyone till it comes true,' answeredthe boy.'And won't you tell it to me either?' asked the king in surprise.'No, not even to you, your Majesty,' replied he.'Oh, I am sure you will when we get home,' said the king smiling, and hetalked to him about other things till they came to the palace.'I have brought you such a nice present,' he said to his daughters, andas the boy was very pretty they were delighted to have him and gave himall their best toys.'You must not spoil him,' observed the king one day, when he had beenwatching them playing together. He has a secret which he won't tell toanyone.''He will tell me,' answered the eldest princess. but the boy only shookhis head.'He will tell me,' said the second girl.'Not I,' replied the boy.'He will tell me,' cried the youngest, who was the prettiest too.'I will tell nobody till it comes true,' said the boy, as he had saidbefore. 'and I will beat anybody who asks me.'The king was very sorry when he heard this, for he loved the boy dearly.but he thought it would never do to keep anyone near him who would notdo as he was bid. So he commanded his servants to take him away and notto let him enter the palace again until he had come to his right senses.The sword clanked loudly as the boy was led away, but the child saidnothing, though he was very unhappy at being treated so badly when hehad done nothing. However, the servants were very kind to him, and theirchildren brought him fruit and all sorts of nice things, and he soongrew merry again, and lived amongst them for many years till hisseventeenth birthday.Meanwhile the two eldest princesses had become women, and had marriedtwo powerful kings who ruled over great countries across the sea.The youngest one was old enough to be married too, but she was veryparticular, and turned up her nose at all the young princes who hadsought her hand.One day she was sitting in the palace feeling rather dull and lonely,and suddenly she began to wonder what the servants were doing, andwhether it was not more amusing down in their quarters. The king was athis council and the queen was ill in bed, so there was no one to stopthe princess, and she hastily ran across the gardens to the houses wherethe servants lived. Outside she noticed a youth who was handsomer thanany prince she had ever seen, and in a moment she knew him to be thelittle boy she had once played with.'Tell me your secret and I will marry you,' she said to him. but the boyonly gave her the beating he had promised her long ago, when she askedhim the same question. The girl was very angry, besides being hurt, andran home to complain to her father.'If he had a thousand souls, I would kill them all,' swore the king.That very day a gallows was built outside the town, and all the peoplecrowded round to see the execution of the young man who had dared tobeat the king's daughter. The prisoner, with his hands tied behindhis back, was brought out by the hangman, and amidst dead silence hissentence was being read by the judge when suddenly the sword clankedagainst his side. Instantly a great noise was heard and a golden coachrumbled over the stones, with a white flag waving out of the window.It stopped underneath the gallows, and from it stepped the king of theMagyars, who begged that the life of the boy might be spared.'Sir, he has beaten my daughter, who only asked him to tell her hissecret. I cannot pardon that,' answered the princess's father.'Give him to me, I'm sure he will tell me the secret. or, if not, I havea daughter who is like the Morning Star, and he is sure to tell it toher.'The sword clanked for the third time, and the king said angrily: 'Well,if you want him so much you can have him. only never let me see his faceagain.' And he made a sign to the hangman. The bandage was removed fromthe young man's eyes, and the cords from his wrists, and he took hisseat in the golden coach beside the king of the Magyars. Then thecoachman whipped up his horses, and they set out for Buda.The king talked very pleasantly for a few miles, and when he thoughtthat his new companion was quite at ease with him, he asked him what wasthe secret which had brought him into such trouble. 'That I cannot tellyou,' answered the youth, 'until it comes true.''You will tell my daughter,' said the king, smiling.'I will tell nobody,' replied the youth, and as he spoke the swordclanked loudly. The king said no more, but trusted to his daughter'sbeauty to get the secret from him.The journey to Buda was long, and it was several days before theyarrived there. The beautiful princess happened to be picking roses inthe garden, when her father's coach drove up.'Oh, what a handsome youth! Have you brought him from fairyland?' criedshe, when they all stood upon the marble steps in front of the castle.'I have brought him from the gallows,' answered the king. rather vexedat his daughter's words, as never before had she consented to speak toany man.'I don't care where you brought him from,' said the spoilt girl. 'I willmarry him and nobody else, and we will live together till we die.''You will tell another tale,' replied the king, 'when you ask him hissecret. After all he is no better than a servant.''That is nothing to me,' said the princess, 'for I love him. He willtell his secret to me, and will find a place in the middle of my heart.'But the king shook his head, and gave orders that the lad was to belodged in the summer house.One day, about a week later, the princess put on her finest dress, andwent to pay him a visit. She looked so beautiful that, at the sight ofher, the book dropped from his hand, and he stood up speechless. 'Tellme,' she said, coaxingly, 'what is this wonderful secret? Just whisperit in my ear, and I will give you a kiss.''My angel,' he answered, 'be wise, and ask no questions, if you wish toget safely back to your father's palace. I have kept my secret all theseyears, and do not mean to tell it now.'However, the girl would not listen, and went on pressing him, till atlast he slapped her face so hard that her nose bled. She shrieked withpain and rage, and ran screaming back to the palace, where her fatherwas waiting to hear if she had succeeded. 'I will starve you to death,you son of a dragon,' cried he, when he saw her dress streaming withblood. and he ordered all the masons and bricklayers in the town to comebefore him.'Build me a tower as fast as you can,' he said, 'and see that there isroom for a stool and a small table, and for nothing else. The men setto work, and in two hours the tower was built, and they proceeded to thepalace to inform the king that his commands were fulfilled. On the waythey met the princess, who began to talk to one of the masons, and whenthe rest were out of hearing she asked if he could manage to make a holein the tower, which nobody could see, large enough for a bottle of wineand some food to pass through.'To be sure I can,' said the mason, turning back, and in a few minutesthe hole was bored.At sunset a large crowd assembled to watch the youth being led to thetower, and after his misdeeds had been proclaimed he was solemnly walledup. But every morning the princess passed him in food through the hole,and every third day the king sent his secretary to climb up a ladderand look down through a little window to see if he was dead. But thesecretary always brought back the report that he was fat and rosy.'There is some magic about this,' said the king.This state of affairs lasted some time, till one day a messenger arrivedfrom the Sultan bearing a letter for the king, and also three canes. 'Mymaster bids me say,' said the messenger, bowing low, 'that if you cannottell him which of these three canes grows nearest the root, which in themiddle, and which at the top, he will declare war against you.The king was very much frightened when he heard this, and though he tookthe canes and examined them closely, he could see no difference betweenthem. He looked so sad that his daughter noticed it, and inquired thereason.'Alas! my daughter,' he answered, 'how can I help being sad? The Sultanhas sent me three canes, and says that if I cannot tell him which ofthem grows near the root, which in the middle, and which at the top, hewill make war upon me. And you know that his army is far greater thanmine.''Oh, do not despair, my father,' said she. 'We shall be sure to find outthe answer'. and she ran away to the tower, and told the young man whathad occurred.'Go to bed as usual,' replied he, 'and when you wake, tell your fatherthat you have dreamed that the canes must be placed in warm water. Aftera little while one will sink to the bottom. that is the one that growsnearest the root. The one which neither sinks nor comes to the surfaceis the cane that is cut from the middle. and the one that floats is fromthe top.'So, the next morning, the princess told her father of her dream, and byher advice he cut notches in each of the canes when he took them out ofthe water, so that he might make no mistake when he handed them back tothe messenger. The Sultan could not imagine how he had found out, but hedid not declare war.The following year the Sultan again wanted to pick a quarrel with theking of the Magyars, so he sent another messenger to him with threefoals, begging him to say which of the animals was born in the morning,which at noon, and which in the evening. If an answer was not ready inthree days, war would be declared at once. The king's heart sank when heread the letter. He could not expect his daughter to be lucky enough todream rightly a second time, and as a plague had been raging throughthe country, and had carried off many of his soldiers, his army was evenweaker than before. At this thought his face became so gloomy that hisdaughter noticed it, and inquired what was the matter.'I have had another letter from the Sultan,' replied the king, 'andhe says that if I cannot tell him which of three foals was born in themorning, which at noon, and which in the evening, he will declare war atonce.''Oh, don't be cast down,' said she, 'something is sure to happen'. andshe ran down to the tower to consult the youth.'Go home, idol of my heart, and when night comes, pretend to scream outin your sleep, so that your father hears you. Then tell him that youhave dreamt that he was just being carried off by the Turks because hecould not answer the question about the foals, when the lad whom hehad shut up in the tower ran up and told them which was foaled in themorning, which at noon, and which in the evening.'So the princess did exactly as the youth had bidden her. and no soonerhad she spoken than the king ordered the tower to be pulled down, andthe prisoner brought before him.'I did not think that you could have lived so long without food,' saidhe, 'and as you have had plenty of time to repent your wicked conduct,I will grant you pardon, on condition that you help me in a sore strait.Read this letter from the Sultan. you will see that if I fail to answerhis question about the foals, a dreadful war will be the result.'The youth took the letter and read it through. 'Yes, I can help you,'replied he. 'but first you must bring me three troughs, all exactlyalike. Into one you must put oats, into another wheat, and into thethird barley. The foal which eats the oats is that which was foaled inthe morning. the foal which eats the wheat is that which was foaled atnoon. and the foal which eats the barley is that which was foaled atnight.' The king followed the youth's directions, and, marking thefoals, sent them back to Turkey, and there was no war that year.Now the Sultan was very angry that both his plots to get possession ofHungary had been such total failures, and he sent for his aunt, who wasa witch, to consult her as to what he should do next.'It is not the king who has answered your questions,' observed the aunt,when he had told his story. 'He is far too stupid ever to have donethat! The person who has found out the puzzle is the son of a poorwoman, who, if he lives, will become King of Hungary. Therefore, if youwant the crown yourself, you must get him here and kill him.'After this conversation another letter was written to the Court ofHungary, saying that if the youth, now in the palace, was not sentto Turkey within three days, a large army would cross the border. Theking's heart was sorrowful as he read, for he was grateful to the ladfor what he had done to help him. but the boy only laughed, and bade theking fear nothing, but to search the town instantly for two youths justlike each other, and he would paint himself a mask that was just likethem. And the sword at his side clanked loudly.After a long search twin brothers were found, so exactly resemblingeach other that even their own mother could not tell the difference. Theyouth painted a mask that was the precise copy of them, and when he hadput it on, no one would have known one boy from the other. They set outat once for the Sultan's palace, and when they reached it, they weretaken straight into his presence. He made a sign for them to come near.they all bowed low in greeting. He asked them about their journey. theyanswered his questions all together, and in the same words. If one satdown to supper, the others sat down at the same instant. When one gotup, the others got up too, as if there had been only one body betweenthem. The Sultan could not detect any difference between them, and hetold his aunt that he would not be so cruel as to kill all three.'Well, you will see a difference to morrow,' replied the witch, 'for onewill have a cut on his sleeve. That is the youth you must kill.' And onehour before midnight, when witches are invisible, she glided into theroom where all three lads were sleeping in the same bed. She took outa pair of scissors and cut a small piece out of the boy's coat sleevewhich was hanging on the wall, and then crept silently from the room.But in the morning the youth saw the slit, and he marked the sleeves ofhis two companions in the same way, and all three went down to breakfastwith the Sultan. The old witch was standing in the window and pretendednot to see them. but all witches have eyes in the backs of their heads,and she knew at once that not one sleeve but three were cut, and theywere all as alike as before. After breakfast, the Sultan, who wasgetting tired of the whole affair and wanted to be alone to invent someother plan, told them they might return home. So, bowing low with oneaccord, they went.The princess welcomed the boy back joyfully, but the poor youth was notallowed to rest long in peace, for one day a fresh letter arrived fromthe Sultan, saying that he had discovered that the young man was a verydangerous person, and that he must be sent to Turkey at once, and alone.The girl burst into tears when the boy told her what was in the letterwhich her father had bade her to carry to him. 'Do not weep, love ofmy heart,' said the boy, 'all will be well. I will start at sunriseto morrow.'So next morning at sunrise the youth set forth, and in a few days hereached the Sultan's palace. The old witch was waiting for him at thegate, and whispered as he passed: 'This is the last time you will everenter it.' But the sword clanked, and the lad did not even look at her.As he crossed the threshold fifteen armed Turks barred his way, with theSultan at their head. Instantly the sword darted forth and cut off theheads of everyone but the Sultan, and then went quietly back to itsscabbard. The witch, who was looking on, saw that as long as the youthhad possession of the sword, all her schemes would be in vain, and triedto steal the sword in the night, but it only jumped out of its scabbardand sliced off her nose, which was of iron. And in the morning, when theSultan brought a great army to capture the lad and deprive him of hissword, they were all cut to pieces, while he remained without a scratch.Meanwhile the princess was in despair because the days slipped by, andthe young man did not return, and she never rested until her father lether lead some troops against the Sultan. She rode proudly before them,dressed in uniform. but they had not left the town more than a milebehind them, when they met the lad and his little sword. When he toldthem what he had done they shouted for joy, and carried him back intriumph to the palace. and the king declared that as the youth had shownhimself worthy to become his son in law, he should marry the princessand succeed to the throne at once, as he himself was getting old, andthe cares of government were too much for him. But the young man said hemust first go and see his mother, and the king sent him in state, with atroop of soldiers as his bodyguard.The old woman was quite frightened at seeing such an array draw upbefore her little house, and still more surprised when a handsome youngman, whom she did not know, dismounted and kissed her hand, saying:'Now, dear mother, you shall hear my secret at last! I dreamed that Ishould become King of Hungary, and my dream has come true. When I wasa child, and you begged me to tell you, I had to keep silence, or theMagyar king would have killed me. And if you had not beaten me nothingwould have happened that has happened, and I should not now be King ofHungary.'