Mountain and valley do not meet, but the children of men do, both good andbad. Thus a shoemaker and a tailor once met on their travels. The tailorwas a handsome little fellow who was always cheerful and satisfied. He sawthe shoemaker approaching him from the other side, and, observing from hisbag what is trade was, he sang a mocking little song to him:Sew me the seam,Pull me the thread,Left and right, spread it with pitch,Pound, pound the nail on the head.The shoemaker, however, could not take a joke. He pulled a face as if hehad drunk vinegar, and made a gesture as if he were about to seize thetailor by the collar.With that the little fellow began to laugh, offered him his bottle,saying, "No harm was meant. Take a drink, and swallow your anger."The shoemaker took a mighty drink, and the storm on his face began toclear away. He gave the bottle back to the tailor, and said, "I took ahearty gulp. They have a lot to say about heavy drinking, but notmuch about great thirst. Shall we travel together?""All right," answered the tailor, "but only if only it suits you to goto a big town where there is no lack of work.""That is just where I wanted to go," answered the shoemaker. "In a smallplace there is nothing to be earned, and in the country people prefer togo barefoot."Thus they traveled on together, always setting one foot before the otherlike a weasel in the snow. Both of them had time enough, but little toeat. When they reached a town they went about looking for work, andbecause the tailor looked so lively and merry, and had such fine redcheeks, every one gave him work willingly, and if he was lucky, themaster's daughter gave him a kiss as well.Whenever he met up with the shoemaker, the tailor always had the most inhis bundle. The ill tempered shoemaker would make a sour face, thinking,"The greater the rascal, the better the luck."But the tailor would beginto laugh and to sing, and shared everything he had with his comrade. If acouple of pennies jingled in his pockets, he ordered drinks, thencheerfully thumped the table until the glasses danced. His motto was "Easycome, easy go."After they had traveled for some time, they came to a great forest throughwhich passed the way to the capital. Two footpaths led throughit, one of which was a seven days' journey and the other only two, butneither of them knew which way was the shorter one. They sat down beneathan oak tree and discussed together what preparations to make, and for howmany days they should provide themselves with bread.The shoemaker said, "One must plan ahead for the unexpected. I will takewith me bread for a week.""What?" said the tailor. "Haul bread for seven days on one's back like abeast of burden and not be able to look about? I shall trust in God, andnot trouble myself about anything. The money I have in my pocket is asgood in summer as in winter, but in hot weather bread dries out and getsmoldy on top of that. Even my coat reaches only to my ankles. Whyshouldn't we find the right way? Bread for two days, and that's enough."Therefore each person bought his own bread, and then they tried their luckin the forest.It was as quiet there as in a church. No wind stirred, no brook murmured,no bird sang, and no sunbeam found its way through the thickly leavedbranches. The shoemaker did not speak a word. The bread weighed so heavilyon his back that the sweat streamed down his cross and gloomy face.The tailor, however, was quite merry. Walking on with a spring in eachstep, he whistled on a leaf, or sang a song, and thought to himself, "Godin heaven must be pleased that I am so happy."This lasted two days, but on the third there was still no end to theforest, and the tailor had eaten up all his bread. Thus his heart sankdown a yard deeper. Nevertheless, he did not lose courage, but relied onGod and on his luck. On the evening of the third day he lay down hungryunder a tree, and rose again the next morning still hungry. The fourth daywasthe same, and when the shoemaker seated himself on a fallen tree anddevoured his dinner the tailor was only a spectator.If he begged for a little piece of bread, the other laughed mockingly, andsaid, "You have always been so merry. Now you can see for once what it islike to be sad. Birds that sing too early in the morning are caught by thehawk in the evening."In short, he was merciless. On the fifth morning the poor tailor could nolonger stand up and was hardly able to utter one word for weakness. Hischeeks were white, and his eyes were red.Then the shoemaker said to him, "I will give you a bit of bread today, butin return for it, I will put out your right eye."The unhappy tailor, who still wished to save his life, had to submit. Hewept once more with both eyes, and then held them out, and the shoemaker,who had a heart of stone, put out his right eye with a sharp knife. Thetailor remembered what his mother had once said to him when he had beensnacking in the pantry: "Eat whatever you can, and suffer whatever youmust."After eating his dearly bought bread, he got on his legs again, forgot hismisery, and comforted himself with the thought that he could always seeenough with one eye. But on the sixth day, hunger made itself felt again,almost consuming his heart. That evening he fell down by a tree, and onthe seventh morning he was too weak to get up, and death was close athand.Then the shoemaker said, "I will show mercy and give you bread once more,but you shall not have it for nothing. I shall put out your other eye forit."And now the tailor felt how careless his life had been, prayed to God forforgiveness, and said, "Do what you will. I will bear what I must, butremember that our Lord God does not always look on passively, and that anhour will come when the evil deed which you have done to me, and which Ihave not deserved of you, will be requited. When times were good with meI shared what I had with you. My trade is such that one stitch must followanother. If I no longer have my eyes and can sew no more, I must gobegging. At any rate do not leave me here alone when I am blind, or Ishall die of hunger."The shoemaker, however, who had driven God out of his heart, took theknife and put out his left eye. Then he gave him a bit of bread to eat,held out a stick to him, and led him on behind him.At sunset, they got out of the forest, and before them in an open fieldstood the gallows. The shoemaker led the blind tailor there, and then wenton his way, leaving him there alone. Weariness, pain, and hunger made thewretched man fall asleep, and he slept the whole night. He awoke at dawn,not knowing where he was.Two poor sinners were hanging on the gallows, with a crow sat on the headof each of them. Then one of the men who had been hanged began to speak,and said, "Brother, are you awake?""Yes, I am awake," answered the second."Then I will tell you something," said the first. "The dew that this nighthas fallen down over us from the gallows gives everyone who washeshimself with it his eyes again. If the blind knew this, how many wouldregain their sight who do not believe that to be possible?"Hearing this the tailor took his handkerchief, pressed it on the grass,and when it was moist with dew, washed the sockets of his eyes with it.Immediately what the man on the gallows had said came true, and a pair ofhealthy new eyes filled the sockets. It was not long before the tailor sawthe sun rise from behind the mountains. In the plain before him lay thegreatroyal city with its magnificent gates and hundred towers, and the goldenballs and crosses on the spires began to shine. He could distinguish everyleaf on the trees, saw the birds flying past, and the gnats dancing in theair. He took a needle out of his pocket, and as he could thread it as wellas ever he had done, his heart danced with delight.He threw himself on his knees, thanked God for the mercy he had shown him,and said his morning prayer, not forgetting to pray for the poor sinnerswho were hanging there swinging against each other in the wind like thependulums of clocks. Then he took his bundle on his back and soon forgotthe sorrow he had endured, and went on his way singing and whistling.The first thing he came to was a brown foal freely running about thefield. He caught it by the mane, and wanted to mount it and ride into thetown. The foal, however, begged for its freedom. "I am still too young,"it said. "Even a light tailor such as you are would break my back in two.Let me go until I have grown strong. Perhaps a time may come when I canreward you for it.""Run off," said the tailor. "I see that you are still only awhippersnapper."He gave it a touch on its back with a switch, whereupon it kicked up itshind legs for joy, jumped over hedges and ditches, and galloped away intothe open country.The little tailor had eaten nothing since the day before. "The sun fillsmy eyes," he said, "but bread does not fill my mouth. The first thing thatcomes my way and is even half edible will have to suffer for it."In the meantime a stork stepped solemnly over the meadow towards him."Stop, stop," cried the tailor, and seized him by the leg. "I don't knowif you are good to eat or not, but my hunger leaves me no great choice. Imust cut your head off, and roast you.""Don't do that," replied the stork. "I am a sacred bird that bringsmankind great profit, and no one harms me. If you spare my life I will beable do you good in some other way.""Then be off, cousin longlegs," said the tailor. The stork rose up, letits long legs hang down, and flew gently away."What's to be the end of this?" said the tailor to himself at last. "Myhunger grows greater and greater, and my stomach more and more empty.Whatever comes in my way now is lost."Then he saw a couple of youngducks which were on a pond come swimming towards him. "You come just atthe right moment," said he, and laid hold of one of them and was about towring its neck.With this an old duck which was hidden among the reeds, began to squawkloudly. She swam to him with open beak, begging him urgently to spare herdear children. "Can you not imagine," said she, "how your mother wouldmourn if someone wanted to carry you off, and do an end to you.""Quiet down," said the good natured tailor. "You shall keep yourchildren," and he set the captured one back into the water.When he turned around, he was standing in front of an old tree which waspartly hollow, and saw some wild bees flying in and out of it. "There Ishall find the reward of my good deed," said the tailor. "The honey willrefresh me."But the queen bee came out and threatened him, saying, "If you touch mypeople and destroy my nest our stings shall pierce your skin like tenthousand red hot needles. But if you leave us in peace and go your way wewill do you a service for it another time."The little tailor saw that here also nothing was to be done. Three dishesempty and nothing on the fourth is a bad dinner. He dragged himselftherefore with his starved out stomach into the town, and as it was juststriking twelve, all was ready cooked for him in the inn, and he was ableto sit down at once to dinner.When he was satisfied he said, "Now I will get to work." He went aroundthe town, sought a master, and soon found a good situation. Because healready had thoroughly learned his trade, it was not long before he becamefamous, and everyone wanted to have a new coat made by the little tailor.His reputation grew day by day."I can go no further in skill," said he, "and yet things improve everyday." At last the king appointed him court tailor.But strange things do happen in the world. On that very same day hisformercomrade the shoemaker also became court shoemaker. When the latter caughtsight of the tailor, and saw that he once more had two healthy eyes, hisconscience troubled him. "Before he takes revenge on me," he thought tohimself, "I must dig a pit for him."He, however, who digs a pit for another, falls into it himself. In theevening when work was over and it was growing dark, he sneaked to the kingand said, "Your majesty, the tailor is an arrogant fellow and has boastedthat he will get the golden crown back again that was lost ages ago.""That would please me," said the king, and the next morning he had thetailor broughtbefore him, and ordered him to get the crown back again, orto leave the city forever."Aha," thought the tailor. "A rogue gives more than he has. If thebad tempered king wants me to do what no one else can do, I will not waituntil morning, but will leave town at once."Therefore he tied up his bundle, but once outside the gate he could nothelp being sorry to give up his good fortune and turn his back on thecity in which all had gone so well for him. He came to the pond where hehad made the acquaintance of the ducks. At that very moment the old onewhose young ones he had spared was sitting there by the shore, preeningherself with her beak. She knew him again instantly, and asked why he washanging his head so."You will not be surprised when you hear what has happened to me," repliedthe tailor, and told her his fate."If that is all," said the duck, "we can help you. The crown fell into thewater, and it lies down below at the bottom. We will soon bring it upagain for you. In the meantime just spread out your handkerchief on thebank."She dived down with her twelve young ones, and in five minutes she was upagain with the crown resting on her wings. The twelve young ones wereswimming round about with their beaks under it, helping to carryit. They swam to the shore and put the crown on the handkerchief. No onecan imagine how magnificent the crown was. When the sun shone on it, itgleamed like a hundred thousand carbuncles. The tailor tied hishandkerchief together by the four corners and carried it to the king, whowas full of joy, and hung a gold chain around the tailor's neck.When the shoemaker saw that the one trick had failed, he contrived asecond, and went to the king and said, "Your majesty, the tailor hasbecome insolent again. He boasts that he can copy in wax the whole of theroyal palace, with everything that pertains to it, movable or immovable,inside and out."The king sent for the tailor and ordered him to copy in wax the whole ofthe royal palace, with everything that pertained to it, movable orimmovable, inside and out. And failing this, or if so much as one nail onthe wall were missing, he should be imprisoned underground for the rest ofhis life.The tailor thought, "It gets worse and worse. No one can endure this," andhe threw his bundle on his back, and went forth. When he came to thehollowtree, he sat down and hung his head. The bees came flying out, and thequeen bee asked him if he had a stiff neck, since he hung his head so."Oh no," answered the tailor, "something quite different weighs me down,"and he told her what the king had demanded of him.The bees began to buzz and hum amongst themselves, and the queen bee said,"Just go home again, but come back tomorrow at this time, and bring alarge cloth with you, and then all will be well."So he turned back again, but the bees flew to the royal palace andstraight into it through the open windows, crept into every corner, andinspected everything most carefully. Then they hurried back and modeledthe palace in wax so quickly that anyone looking on would have thought itwas growing before his eyes. By the evening all was ready, and when thetailor came the next morning, the whole splendid building was there, andnotone nail in the wall or tile on the roof was missing. And at the same timeit was delicate and white as snow, and smelled sweet as honey. The tailorwrapped it carefully in his cloth and took it to the king, who could notadmire it enough, placed it in his largest hall, and in return for itpresented the tailor with a large stone house.The shoemaker, however, did not give up, but went for the third time tothe king and said, "Your majesty, the tailor has heard that no water willspring up in the castle's courtyard, but he has boasted that he can createa fountain in the middle of the courtyard as tall as a man and as clear ascrystal."Then the king ordered the tailor to be brought before him and said, "If astream of water does not rise in my courtyard by tomorrow as you havepromised, in that very place the executioner shall make you shorter by ahead."The poor tailor did not take long to think about it, but hurried out tothe gate, and because this time it was a matter of life and death to him,tears rolled down his face.While he was thus sorrowfully going forth, the foal to which he hadformerly given its liberty, and which had now become a beautiful chestnuthorse, came leaping towards him. "The time has come," it said to thetailor, "when I can repay you for your good deed. I already know what youneed, and you shall soon have help. Climb on. my back can carry two ofyou."The tailor's courage came back to him. He jumped up in one bound, and thehorse went full speed into the city, and immediately to the castle'scourtyard. It galloped as quick as lightning three times around it, thethird time falling down. At that instant there was a terrific clap ofthunder, a fragment of earth in the middle of the courtyard sprang like acannonball into the air and over the castle. Directly afterward a jet ofwater rose as high as a man on horseback, and the water was as pure ascrystal, and the sunbeams began to dance on it. When the king saw this hearose in amazement, and went and embraced the tailor in the sight of allmen.But good fortune did not last long. The king had daughters aplenty, eachone more beautiful than the others, but he had no son. So the maliciousshoemaker went to the king a fourth time, and said, "Your majesty, thetailor has not given up his arrogance. He has now boasted that if heliked, he could cause a son to be brought to his majesty through the air."The king summoned the tailor and said, "If you cause a son to be broughtto me within nine days, you shall have my eldest daughter to wife.""The reward is indeed great," thought the little tailor. "One wouldwillingly do something for it, but the cherries grow too high for me. If Iclimb for them, the branch will break beneath me, and I shall fall."He went home, seated himself cross legged on his worktable, and thoughtover what was to be done. "It can't be managed," he cried at last. "I willgo away after all. I cannot live in peace here."He tied up his bundle and hurried away to the gate. When he got to themeadow, he perceived his old friend the stork, who was walking backwardsand forwards like a philosopher. Sometimes he stood still, looking closelyat a frog, than finally swallowing it down. The stork came to him andgreetedhim."I see," he began, "that you have your pack on your back. Why are youleaving town?"The tailor told him what the king had required of him, and how he couldnot perform it, and lamented his misfortune."Don't let that turn your hair gray," said the stork, "I will help you outof your difficulty. For a long time now, I have been carrying infantchildren into the city, so this time, I can fetch a little prince out ofthe well. Go home and take it easy. Nine days from now go to the royalpalace, and I will arrive there as well."The little tailor went home, and at the appointed time was at the castle.Not long afterward the stork flew up and tapped at the window. The tailoropened it, and cousin longlegs came in carefully and walked with solemnsteps over the smooth marble pavement. In his beak he had a baby that wasas lovely as an angel, and who stretched out his little hands to thequeen. The stork laid him in her lap, and she caressed him and kissed him,and was beside herself with delight. Before flying away, the stork tookhis traveling bag off his back and handed it to the queen. In itthere were little paper parcels with colored sweets, and they were dividedamongst the little princesses. The eldest, however, received none of them,but instead got the merry tailor for a husband."It seems to me," he said, "that I have won the highest prize. My motherwas right after all. She always said that whoever trusts in God and hasonly good luck can never fail."The shoemaker had to make the shoes in which the little tailor danced atthe wedding festival, after which he was commanded to quit the town forever. The road to the forest led him to the gallows. Worn out with anger,rage, and the heat of the day, he threw himself down. When he had closedhis eyes and was about to sleep, the two crows flew down from the heads ofthe men who were hanging there and pecked his eyes out. In his madness heran into the forest and must have died there of hunger, for no one hasseen him or heard of him again.