Far, far away, in the midst of a pine forest, there lived a woman whohad both a daughter and a stepdaughter. Ever since her own daughterwas born the mother had given her all that she cried for, so she grewup to be as cross and disagreeable as she was ugly. Her stepsister, onthe other hand, had spent her childhood in working hard to keep housefor her father, who died soon after his second marriage. and she was asmuch beloved by the neighbours for her goodness and industry as she wasfor her beauty.As the years went on, the difference between the two girls grew moremarked, and the old woman treated her stepdaughter worse than ever, andwas always on the watch for some pretext for beating her, or deprivingher of her food. Anything, however foolish, was good enough for this,and one day, when she could think of nothing better, she set both thegirls to spin while sitting on the low wall of the well.'And you had better mind what you do,' said she, 'for the one whosethread breaks first shall be thrown to the bottom.'But of course she took good care that her own daughter's flax was fineand strong, while the stepsister had only some coarse stuff, which noone would have thought of using. As might be expected, in a verylittle while the poor girl's thread snapped, and the old woman, who hadbeen watching from behind a door, seized her stepdaughter by hershoulders, and threw her into the well.'That is an end of you!' she said. But she was wrong, for it was onlythe beginning.Down, down, down went the girl it seemed as if the well must reach tothe very middle of the earth. but at last her feet touched the ground,and she found herself in a field more beautiful than even the summerpastures of her native mountains. Trees waved in the soft breeze, andflowers of the brightest colours danced in the grass. And though shewas quite alone, the girl's heart danced too, for she felt happier thanshe had since her father died. So she walked on through the meadowtill she came to an old tumbledown fence so old that it was a wonderit managed to stand up at all, and it looked as if it depended forsupport on the old man's beard that climbed all over it.The girl paused for a moment as she came up, and gazed about for aplace where she might safely cross. But before she could move a voicecried from the fence:'Do not hurt me, little maiden. I am so old, so old, I have not muchlonger to live.'And the maiden answered:'No, I will not hurt you. fear nothing.' And then seeing a spot wherethe clematis grew less thickly than in other places, she jumped lightlyover.'May all go well with thee,' said the fence, as the girl walked on.She soon left the meadow and turned into a path which ran between twoflowery hedges. Right in front of her stood an oven, and through itsopen door she could see a pile of white loaves.'Eat as many loaves as you like, but do me no harm, little maiden,'cried the oven. And the maiden told her to fear nothing, for she neverhurt anything, and was very grateful for the oven's kindness in givingher such a beautiful white loaf. When she had finished it, down to thelast crumb, she shut the oven door and said: 'Good morning.''May all go well with thee,' said the oven, as the girl walked on.By and by she became very thirsty, and seeing a cow with a milk pailhanging on her horn, turned towards her.'Milk me and drink as much as you will, little maiden,' cried the cow,'but be sure you spill none on the ground. and do me no harm, for Ihave never harmed anyone.''Nor I,' answered the girl. 'fear nothing.' So she sat down and milkedtill the pail was nearly full. Then she drank it all up except alittle drop at the bottom.'Now throw any that is left over my hoofs, and hang the pail on myhorns again,' said the cow. And the girl did as she was bid, andkissed the cow on her forehead and went her way.Many hours had now passed since the girl had fallen down the well, andthe sun was setting.'Where shall I spend the night?' thought she. And suddenly she sawbefore her a gate which she had not noticed before, and a very oldwoman leaning against it.'Good evening,' said the girl politely. and the old woman answered:'Good evening, my child. Would that everyone was as polite as you.Are you in search of anything?''I am in search of a place,' replied the girl. and the woman smiled andsaid:'Then stop a little while and comb my hair, and you shall tell me allthe things you can do.''Willingly, mother,' answered the girl. And she began combing out theold woman's hair, which was long and white.Half an hour passed in this way, and then the old woman said:'As you did not think yourself too good to comb me, I will show youwhere you may take service. Be prudent and patient and all will gowell.'So the girl thanked her, and set out for a farm at a little distance,where she was engaged to milk the cows and sift the corn.As soon as it was light next morning the girl got up and went into thecow house. 'I'm sure you must be hungry,' said she, patting each inturn. And then she fetched hay from the barn, and while they wereeating it, she swept out the cow house, and strewed clean straw uponthe floor. The cows were so pleased with the care she took of themthat they stood quite still while she milked them, and did not play anyof the tricks on her that they had played on other dairymaids who wererough and rude. And when she had done, and was going to get up fromher stool, she found sitting round her a whole circle of cats, blackand white, tabby and tortoise  shell, who all cried with one voice:'We are very thirsty, please give us some milk!''My poor little pussies,' said she, 'of course you shall have some.'And she went into the dairy, followed by all the cats, and gave eachone a little red saucerful. But before they drank they all rubbedthemselves against her knees and purred by way of thanks.The next thing the girl had to do was to go to the storehouse, and tosift the corn through a sieve. While she was busy rubbing the corn sheheard a whirr of wings, and a flock of sparrows flew in at the window.'We are hungry. give us some corn! give us some corn!' cried they. andthe girl answered:'You poor little birds, of course you shall have some!' and scattered afine handful over the floor. When they had finished they flew on hershoulders and flapped their wings by way of thanks.Time went by, and no cows in the whole country side were so fat andwell tended as hers, and no dairy had so much milk to show. Thefarmer's wife was so well satisfied that she gave her higher wages, andtreated her like her own daughter. At length, one day, the girl wasbidden by her mistress to come into the kitchen, and when there, theold woman said to her: 'I know you can tend cows and keep a diary. nowlet me see what you can do besides. Take this sieve to the well, andfill it with water, and bring it home to me without spilling one dropby the way.'The girl's heart sank at this order. for how was it possible for her todo her mistress's bidding? However, she was silent, and taking thesieve went down to the well with it. Stopping over the side, shefilled it to the brim, but as soon as she lifted it the water all ranout of the holes. Again and again she tried, but not a drop wouldremaining in the sieve, and she was just turning away in despair when aflock of sparrows flew down from the sky.'Ashes! ashes!' they twittered. and the girl looked at them and said:'Well, I can't be in a worse plight than I am already, so I will takeyour advice.' And she ran back to the kitchen and filled her sievewith ashes. Then once more she dipped the sieve into the well, and,behold, this time not a drop of water disappeared!'Here is the sieve, mistress,' cried the girl, going to the room wherethe old woman was sitting.'You are cleverer than I expected,' answered she. 'or else someonehelped you who is skilled in magic.' But the girl kept silence, andthe old woman asked her no more questions.Many days passed during which the girl went about her work as usual,but at length one day the old woman called her and said:'I have something more for you to do. There are here two yarns, theone white, the other black. What you must do is to wash them in theriver till the black one becomes white and the white black.' And thegirl took them to the river and washed hard for several hours, but washas she would they never changed one whit.'This is worse than the sieve,' thought she, and was about to give upin despair when there came a rush of wings through the air, and onevery twig of the birch trees which grew by the bank was perched asparrow.'The black to the east, the white to the west!' they sang, all at once.and the girl dried her tears and felt brave again. Picking up theblack yarn, she stood facing the east and dipped it in the river, andin an instant it grew white as snow, then turning to the west, she heldthe white yarn in the water, and it became as black as a crow's wing.She looked back at the sparrows and smiled and nodded to them, andflapping their wings in reply they flew swiftly away.At the sight of the yarn the old woman was struck dumb. but when atlength she found her voice she asked the girl what magician had helpedher to do what no one had done before. But she got no answer, for themaiden was afraid of bringing trouble on her little friends.For many weeks the mistress shut herself up in her room, and the girlwent about her work as usual. She hoped that there was an end to thedifficult tasks which had been set her. but in this she was mistaken,for one day the old woman appeared suddenly in the kitchen, and said toher:'There is one more trial to which I must put you, and if you do notfail in that you will be left in peace for evermore. Here are theyarns which you washed. Take them and weave them into a web that is assmooth as a king's robe, and see that it is spun by the time that thesun sets.''This is the easiest thing I have been set to do,' thought the girl,who was a good spinner. But when she began she found that the skeintangled and broke every moment.'Oh, I can never do it!' she cried at last, and leaned her head againstthe loom and wept. but at that instant the door opened, and thereentered, one behind another, a procession of cats.'What is the matter, fair maiden?' asked they. And the girl answered:'My mistress has given me this yarn to weave into a piece of cloth,which must be finished by sunset, and I have not even begun yet, forthe yarn breaks whenever I touch it.''If that is all, dry your eyes,' said the cats. 'we will manage it foryou.' And they jumped on the loom, and wove so fast and so skilfullythat in a very short time the cloth was ready and was as fine as anyking ever wore. The girl was so delighted at the sight of it that shegave each cat a kiss on his forehead as they left the room behind onethe other as they had come.'Who has taught you this wisdom?' asked the old woman, after she hadpassed her hands twice or thrice over the cloth and could find noroughness anywhere. But the girl only smiled and did not answer. Shehad learned early the value of silence.After a few weeks the old woman sent for her maid and told her that asher year of service was now up, she was free to return home, but that,for her part, the girl had served her so well that she hoped she mightstay with her. But at these words the maid shook her head, andanswered gently:'I have been happy here, Madam, and I thank you for your goodness tome. but I have left behind me a stepsister and a stepmother, and I amfain to be with them once more.' The old woman looked at her for amoment, and then she said:'Well, that must be as you like. but as you have worked faithfully forme I will give you a reward. Go now into the loft above the storehouse and there you will find many caskets. Choose the one whichpleases you best, but be careful not to open it till you have set it inthe place where you wish it to remain.'The girl left the room to go to the loft, and as soon as she gotoutside, she found all the cats waiting for her. Walking inprocession, as was their custom, they followed her into the loft, whichwas filled with caskets big and little, plain and splendid. She liftedup one and looked at it, and then put it down to examine another yetmore beautiful. Which should she choose, the yellow or the blue, thered or the green, the gold or the silver? She hesitated long, and wentfirst to one and then to another, when she heard the cats' voicescalling: 'Take the black! take the black!'The words make her look round she had seen no black casket, but as thecats continued their cry she peered into several corners that hadremained unnoticed, and at length discovered a little black box, sosmall and so black, that it might easily have been passed over.'This is the casket that pleases me best, mistress,' said the girl,carrying it into the house. And the old woman smiled and nodded, andbade her go her way. So the girl set forth, after bidding farewell tothe cows and the cats and the sparrows, who all wept as they saidgood bye.She walked on and on and on, till she reached the flowery meadow, andthere, suddenly, something happened, she never knew what, but she wassitting on the wall of the well in her stepmother's yard. Then she gotup and entered the house.The woman and her daughter stared as if they had been turned intostone. but at length the stepmother gasped out:'So you are alive after all! Well, luck was ever against me! Andwhere have you been this year past?' Then the girl told how she hadtaken service in the under world, and, beside her wages, had broughthome with her a little casket, which she would like to set up in herroom.'Give me the money, and take the ugly little box off to the outhouse,'cried the woman, beside herself with rage, and the girl, quitefrightened at her violence, hastened away, with her precious boxclasped to her bosom.The outhouse was in a very dirty state, as no one had been near itsince the girl had fallen down the well. but she scrubbed and swepttill everything was clean again, and then she placed the little casketon a small shelf in the corner.'Now I may open it,' she said to herself. and unlocking it with the keywhich hung to its handle, she raised the lid, but started back as shedid so, almost blinded by the light that burst upon her. No one wouldever have guessed that that little black box could have held such aquantity of beautiful things! Rings, crowns, girdles, necklaces allmade of wonderful stones. and they shone with such brilliance that notonly the stepmother and her daughter but all the people round camerunning to see if the house was on fire. Of course the woman feltquite ill with greed and envy, and she would have certainly taken allthe jewels for herself had she not feared the wrath of the neighbours,who loved her stepdaughter as much as they hated her.But if she could not steal the casket and its contents for herself, atleast she could get another like it, and perhaps a still richer one.So she bade her own daughter sit on the edge of the well, and threw herinto the water, exactly as she had done to the other girl. and, exactlyas before, the flowery meadow lay at the bottom.Every inch of the way she trod the path which her stepsister hadtrodden, and saw the things which she had seen. but there the likenessended. When the fence prayed her to do it no harm, she laughed rudely,and tore up some of the stakes so that she might get over the moreeasily. when the oven offered her bread, she scattered the loaves ontothe ground and stamped on them. and after she had milked the cow, anddrunk as much as she wanted, she threw the rest on the grass, andkicked the pail to bits, and never heard them say, as they looked afterher: 'You shall not have done this to me for nothing!'Towards evening she reached the spot where the old woman was leaningagainst the gate  post, but she passed her by without a word.'Have you no manners in your country?' asked the crone.'I can't stop and talk. I am in a hurry,' answered the girl. 'It isgetting late, and I have to find a place.''Stop and comb my hair for a little,' said the old woman, 'and I willhelp you to get a place.''Comb your hair, indeed! I have something better to do than that!' Andslamming the gate in the crone's face she went her way. And she neverheard the words that followed her: 'You shall not have done this to mefor nothing!'By and by the girl arrived at the farm, and she was engaged to lookafter the cows and sift the corn as her stepsister had been. But itwas only when someone was watching her that she did her work. at othertimes the cow house was dirty, and the cows ill fed and beaten, so thatthey kicked over the pail, and tried to butt her. and everyone saidthey had never seen such thin cows or such poor milk. As for the cats,she chased them away, and ill treated them, so that they had not eventhe spirit to chase the rats and mice, which nowadays ran abouteverywhere. And when the sparrows came to beg for some corn, theyfared no better than the cows and the cats, for the girl threw hershoes at them, till they flew in a fright to the woods, and tookshelter amongst the trees.Months passed in this manner, when, one day, the mistress called thegirl to her.'All that I have given you to do you have done ill,' said she, 'yetwill I give you another chance. For though you cannot tend cows, ordivide the grain from the chaff, there may be other things that you cando better. Therefore take this sieve to the well, and fill it withwater, and see that you bring it back without spilling a drop.'The girl took the sieve and carried it to the well as her sister haddone. but no little birds came to help her, and after dipping it in thewell two or three times she brought it back empty.'I thought as much,' said the old woman angrily. 'she that is uselessin one thing is useless in another.'Perhaps the mistress may have thought that the girl had learnt alesson, but, if she did, she was quite mistaken, as the work was nobetter done than before. By and by she sent for her again, and gaveher maid the black and white yarn to wash in the river. but there wasno one to tell her the secret by which the black would turn white, andthe white black. so she brought them back as they were. This time theold woman only looked at her grimly but the girl was too well pleasedwith herself to care what anyone thought about her.After some weeks her third trial came, and the yarn was given her tospin, as it had been given to her stepsister before her.But no procession of cats entered the room to weave a web of finecloth, and at sunset she only brought back to her mistress an armful ofdirty, tangled wool.'There seems nothing in the world you can do,' said the old woman, andleft her to herself.Soon after this the year was up, and the girl went to her mistress totell her that she wished to go home.'Little desire have I to keep you,' answered the old woman, 'for no onething have you done as you ought. Still, I will give you some payment,therefore go up into the loft, and choose for yourself one of thecaskets that lies there. But see that you do not open it till youplace it where you wish it to stay.'This was what the girl had been hoping for, and so rejoiced was she,that, without even stopping to thank the old woman, she ran as fast asshe could to the loft. There were the caskets, blue and red, green andyellow, silver and gold. and there in the corner stood a little blackcasket just like the one her stepsister had brought home.'If there are so many jewels in that little black thing, this big redone will hold twice the number,' she said to herself. and snatching itup she set off on her road home without even going to bid farewell toher mistress.'See, mother, see what I have brought!' cried she, as she entered thecottage holding the casket in both hands.'Ah! you have got something very different from that little black box,'answered the old woman with delight. But the girl was so busy findinga place for it to stand that she took little notice of her mother.'It will look best here no, here,' she said, setting it first on onepiece of furniture and then on another. 'No, after all it is to fineto live in a kitchen, let us place it in the guest chamber.'So mother and daughter carried it proudly upstairs and put it on ashelf over the fireplace. then, untying the key from the handle, theyopened the box. As before, a bright light leapt out directly the lidwas raised, but it did not spring from the lustre of jewels, but fromhot flames, which darted along the walls and burnt up the cottage andall that was in it and the mother and daughter as well.As they had done when the stepdaughter came home, the neighbours allhurried to see what was the matter. but they were too late. Only thehen house was left standing. and, in spite of her riches, there thestepdaughter lived happily to the end of her days.