There was once upon a time a man and woman who had three fine lookingsons, but they were so poor that they had hardly enough food forthemselves, let alone their children. So the sons determined to set outinto the world and to try their luck. Before starting their mother gavethem each a loaf of bread and her blessing, and having taken a tenderfarewell of her and their father the three set forth on their travels.The youngest of the three brothers, whose name was Ferko, was a beautifulyouth, with a splendid figure, blue eyes, fair hair, and a complexion likemilk and roses. His two brothers were as jealous of him as they could be,for they thought that with his good looks he would be sure to be morefortunate than they would ever be.One day all the three were sitting resting under a tree, for the sun washot and they were tired of walking. Ferko fell fast asleep, but the othertwo remained awake, and the eldest said to the second brother, "What doyou say to doing our brother Ferko some harm? He is so beautiful thateveryone takes a fancy to him, which is more than they do to us. If wecould only get him out of the way we might succeed better.""I quite agree with you," answered the second brother, "and my advice isto eat up his loaf of bread, and then to refuse to give him a bit of oursuntil he has promised to let us put out his eyes or break his legs."His eldest brother was delighted with this proposal, and the two wickedwretches seized Ferko's loaf and ate it all up, while the poor boy wasstill asleep.When he did awake he felt very hungry and turned to eat his bread, but hisbrothers cried out, "You ate your loaf in your sleep, you glutton, and youmay starve as long as you like, but you won't get a scrap of ours."Ferko was at a loss to understand how he could have eaten in his sleep,but he said nothing, and fasted all that day and the next night. But onthe following morning he was so hungry that he burst into tears, andimplored his brothers to give him a little bit of their bread. Then thecruel creatures laughed, and repeated what they had said the day before.but when Ferko continued to beg and beseech them, the eldest said at last,"If you will let us put out one of your eyes and break one of your legs,then we will give you a bit of our bread."At these words poor Ferko wept more bitterly than before, and bore thetorments of hunger till the sun was high in the heavens. then he couldstand it no longer, and he consented to allow his left eye to be put outand his left leg to be broken. When this was done he stretched out hishand eagerly for the piece of bread, but his brothers gave him such a tinyscrap that the starving youth finished it in a moment and besought themfor a second bit.But the more Ferko wept and told his brothers that he was dying of hunger,the more they laughed and scolded him for his greed. So he endured thepangs of starvation all that day, but when night came his endurance gaveway, and he let his right eye be put out and his right leg broken for asecond piece of bread.After his brothers had thus successfully maimed and disfigured him forlife, they left him groaning on the ground and continued their journeywithout him.Poor Ferko ate up the scrap of bread they had left him and wept bitterly,but no one heard him or came to his help. Night came on, and the poorblind youth had no eyes to close, and could only crawl along the ground,not knowing in the least where he was going. But when the sun was oncemore high in the heavens, Ferko felt the blazing heat scorch him, andsought for some cool shady place to rest his aching limbs. He climbed tothe top of a hill and lay down in the grass, and as he thought under theshadow of a big tree. But it was no tree he leant against, but a gallowson which two ravens were seated. The one was saying to the other as theweary youth lay down, "Is there anything the least wonderful or remarkableabout this neighborhood?""I should just think there was," replied the other. "many things thatdon't exist anywhere else in the world. There is a lake down there belowus, and anyone who bathes in it, though he were at death's door, becomessound and well on the spot, and those who wash their eyes with the dew onthis hill become as sharp sighted as the eagle, even if they have beenblind from their youth.""Well," answered the first raven, "my eyes are in no want of this healingbath, for, Heaven be praised, they are as good as ever they were. but mywing has been very feeble and weak ever since it was shot by an arrow manyyears ago, so let us fly at once to the lake that I may be restored tohealth and strength again." And so they flew away.Their words rejoiced Ferko's heart, and he waited impatiently till eveningshould come and he could rub the precious dew on his sightless eyes.At last it began to grow dusk, and the sun sank behind the mountains.gradually it became cooler on the hill, and the grass grew wet with dew.Then Ferko buried his face in the ground till his eyes were damp withdewdrops, and in a moment he saw clearer than he had ever done in his lifebefore. The moon was shining brightly, and lighted him to the lake wherehe could bathe his poor broken legs.Then Ferko crawled to the edge of the lake and dipped his limbs in thewater. No sooner had he done so than his legs felt as sound and strong asthey had been before, and Ferko thanked the kind fate that had led him tothe hill where he had overheard the ravens' conversation. He filled abottle with the healing water, and then continued his journey in the bestof spirits.He had not gone far before he met a wolf, who was limping disconsolatelyalong on three legs, and who on perceiving Ferko began to howl dismally."My good friend," said the youth, "be of good cheer, for I can soon healyour leg," and with these words he poured some of the precious water overthe wolf's paw, and in a minute the animal was springing about sound andwell on all fours. The grateful creature thanked his benefactor warmly,and promised Ferko to do him a good turn if he should ever need it.Ferko continued his way till he came to a ploughed field. Here he noticeda little mouse creeping wearily along on its hind paws, for its front pawshad both been broken in a trap.Ferko felt so sorry for the little beast that he spoke to it in the mostfriendly manner, and washed its small paws with the healing water. In amoment the mouse was sound and whole, and after thanking the kindphysician it scampered away over the ploughed furrows.Ferko again proceeded on his journey, but he hadn't gone far before aqueen bee flew against him, trailing one wing behind her, which had beencruelly torn in two by a big bird. Ferko was no less willing to help herthan he had been to help the wolf and the mouse, so he poured some healingdrops over the wounded wing. On the spot the queen bee was cured, andturning to Ferko she said, "I am most grateful for your kindness, andshall reward you some day." And with these words she flew away humming,gaily.Then Ferko wandered on for many a long day, and at length reached astrange kingdom. Here, he thought to himself, he might as well go straightto the palace and offer his services to the king of the country, for hehad heard that the king's daughter was as beautiful as the day.So he went to the royal palace, and as he entered the door the firstpeople he saw were his two brothers who had so shamefully ill treated him.They had managed to obtain places in the king's service, and when theyrecognized Ferko with his eyes and legs sound and well they werefrightened to death, for they feared he would tell the king of theirconduct, and that they would be hung.No sooner had Ferko entered the palace than all eyes were turned on thehandsome youth, and the king's daughter herself was lost in admiration,for she had never seen anyone so handsome in her life before. His brothersnoticed this, and envy and jealousy were added to their fear, so much sothat they determined once more to destroy him. They went to the king andtold him that Ferko was a wicked magician, who had come to the palace withthe intention of carrying off the princess.Then the king had Ferko brought before him, and said, "You are accused ofbeing a magician who wishes to rob me of my daughter, and I condemn you todeath. but if you can fulfill three tasks which I shall set you to do yourlife shall be spared, on condition you leave the country. but if youcannot perform what I demand you shall be hung on the nearest tree."And turning to the two wicked brothers he said, "Suggest something for himto do. no matter how difficult, he must succeed in it or die."They did not think long, but replied, "Let him build your Majesty in oneday a more beautiful palace than this, and if he fails in the attempt lethim be hung."The king was pleased with this proposal, and commanded Ferko to set towork on the following day. The two brothers were delighted, for theythought they had now got rid of Ferko forever. The poor youth himself washeart broken, and cursed the hour he had crossed the boundary of theking's domain. As he was wandering disconsolately about the meadows roundthe palace, wondering how he could escape being put to death, a little beeflew past, and settling on his shoulder whispered in his ear, "What istroubling you, my kind benefactor? Can I be of any help to you? I am thebee whose wing you healed, and would like to show my gratitude in someway."Ferko recognized the queen bee, and said, "Alas! how could you help me?for I have been set to do a task which no one in the whole world could do,let him be ever such a genius! Tomorrow I must build a palace morebeautiful than the king's, and it must be finished before evening.""Is that all?" answered the bee, "then you may comfort yourself. forbefore the sun goes down tomorrow night a palace shall be built unlike anythat king has dwelt in before. Just stay here till I come again and tellyou that it is finished." Having said this she flew merrily away, andFerko, reassured by her words, lay down on the grass and slept peacefullytill the next morning.Early on the following day the whole town was on its feet, and everyonewondered how and where the stranger would build the wonderful palace. Theprincess alone was silent and sorrowful, and had cried all night till herpillow was wet, so much did she take the fate of the beautiful youth toheart.Ferko spent the whole day in the meadows waiting the return of the bee.And when evening was come the queen bee flew by, and perching on hisshoulder she said, "The wonderful palace is ready. Be of good cheer, andlead the king to the hill just outside the city walls." And humming gailyshe flew away again.Ferko went at once to the king and told him the palace was finished. Thewhole court went out to see the wonder, and their astonishment was greatat the sight which met their eyes. A splendid palace reared itself on thehill just outside the walls of the city, made of the most exquisiteflowers that ever grew in mortal garden. The roof was all of crimsonroses, the windows of lilies, the walls of white carnations, the floors ofglowing auriculas and violets, the doors of gorgeous tulips and narcissiwith sunflowers for knockers, and all round hyacinths and othersweet smelling flowers bloomed in masses, so that the air was perfumed farand near and enchanted all who were present.This splendid palace had been built by the grateful queen bee, who hadsummoned all the other bees in the kingdom to help her.The king's amazement knew no bounds, and the princess's eyes beamed withdelight as she turned them from the wonderful building on the delightedFerko. But the two brothers had grown quite green with envy, and onlydeclared the more that Ferko was nothing but a wicked magician.The king, although he had been surprised and astonished at the way hiscommands had been carried out, was very vexed that the stranger shouldescape with his life, and turning to the two brothers he said, "He hascertainly accomplished the first task, with the aid no doubt of hisdiabolical magic. but what shall we give him to do now? Let us make it asdifficult as possible, and if he fails he shall die."Then the eldest brother replied, "The corn has all been cut, but it hasnot yet been put into barns. let the knave collect all the grain in thekingdom into one big heap before tomorrow night, and if as much as a stalkof corn is left let him be put to death."The princess grew white with terror when she heard these words. but Ferkofelt much more cheerful than he had done the first time, and wandered outinto the meadows again, wondering how he was to get out of the difficulty.But he could think of no way of escape. The sun sank to rest and nightcame on, when a little mouse started out of the grass at Ferko's feet, andsaid to him, "I'm delighted to see you, my kind benefactor. but why areyou looking so sad? Can I be of any help to you, and thus repay your greatkindness to me?"Then Ferko recognized the mouse whose front paws he had healed, andreplied, "Alas I how can you help me in a matter that is beyond any humanpower! Before tomorrow night all the grain in the kingdom has to begathered into one big heap, and if as much as a stalk of corn is wanting Imust pay for it with my life.""Is that all?" answered the mouse. "that needn't distress you much. Justtrust in me, and before the sun sets again you shall hear that your taskis done." And with these words the little creature scampered away into thefields.Ferko, who never doubted that the mouse would be as good as its word, laydown comforted on the soft grass and slept soundly till next morning. Theday passed slowly, and with the evening came the little mouse and said,"Now there is not a single stalk of corn left in any field. they are allcollected in one big heap on the hill out there."Then Ferko went joyfully to the king and told him that all he demanded hadbeen done. And the whole Court went out to see the wonder, and were noless astonished than they had been the first time. For in a heap higherthan the king's palace lay all the grain of the country, and not a singlestalk of corn had been left behind in any of the fields. And how had allthis been done? The little mouse had summoned every other mouse in theland to its help, and together they had collected all the grain in thekingdom.The king could not hide his amazement, but at the same time his wrathincreased, and he was more ready than ever to believe the two brothers,who kept on repeating that Ferko was nothing more nor less than a wickedmagician. Only the beautiful princess rejoiced over Ferko's success, andlooked on him with friendly glances, which the youth returned.The more the cruel king gazed on the wonder before him, the more angry hebecame, for he could not, in the face of his promise, put the stranger todeath. He turned once more to the two brothers and said, "His diabolicalmagic has helped him again, but now what third task shall we set him todo? No matter how impossible it is, he must do it or die."The eldest answered quickly, "Let him drive all the wolves of the kingdomon to this hill before tomorrow night. If he does this he may go free. ifnot he shall be hung as you have said."At these words the princess burst into tears, and when the king saw thishe ordered her to be shut up in a high tower and carefully guarded tillthe dangerous magician should either have left the kingdom or been hung onthe nearest tree.Ferko wandered out into the fields again, and sat down on the stump of atree wondering what he should do next. Suddenly a big wolf ran up to him,and standing still said, "I'm very glad to see you again, my kindbenefactor. What are you thinking about all alone by yourself? If I canhelp you in any way only say the word, for I would like to give you aproof of my gratitude."Ferko at once recognized the wolf whose broken leg he had healed, and toldhim what he had to do the following day if he wished to escape with hislife. "But how in the world," he added, "am I to collect all the wolves ofthe kingdom on to that hill over there?""If that's all you want done," answered the wolf, "you needn't worryyourself. I'll undertake the task, and you'll hear from me again beforesunset tomorrow. Keep your spirits up." And with these words he trottedquickly away.Then the youth rejoiced greatly, for now he felt that his life was safe.but he grew very sad when he thought of the beautiful princess, and thathe would never see her again if he left the country. He lay down once moreon the grass and soon fell fast asleep.All the next day he spent wandering about the fields, and toward eveningthe wolf came running to him in a great hurry and said, "I have collectedtogether all the wolves in the kingdom, and they are waiting for you inthe wood. Go quickly to the king, and tell him to go to the hill that hemay see the wonder you have done with his own eyes. Then return at once tome and get on my back, and I will help you to drive all the wolvestogether."Then Ferko went straight to the palace and told the king that he was readyto perform the third task if he would come to the hill and see it done.Ferko himself returned to the fields, and mounting on the wolf's back herode to the wood close by.Quick as lightning the wolf flew round the wood, and in a minute manyhundred wolves rose up before him, increasing in number every moment, tillthey could be counted by thousands. He drove them all before him on to thehill, where the king and his whole Court and Ferko's two brothers werestanding. Only the lovely princess was not present, for she was shut up inher tower weeping bitterly.The wicked brothers stamped and foamed with rage when they saw the failureof their wicked designs. But the king was overcome by a sudden terror whenhe saw the enormous pack of wolves approaching nearer and nearer, andcalling out to Ferko he said, "Enough, enough, we don't want any more."But the wolf on whose back Ferko sat, said to its rider, "Go on! go on!"and at the same moment many more wolves ran up the hill, howling horriblyand showing their white teeth.The king in his terror called out, "Stop a moment. I will give you half mykingdom if you will drive all the wolves away." But Ferko pretended not tohear, and drove some more thousands before him, so that everyone quakedwith horror and fear.Then the king raised his voice again and called out, "Stop! you shall havemy whole kingdom, if you will only drive these wolves back to the placesthey came from."But the wolf kept on encouraging Ferko, and said, "Go on! go on!" So heled the wolves on, till at last they fell on the king and on the wickedbrothers, and ate them and the whole Court up in a moment.Then Ferko went straight to the palace and set the princess free, and onthe same day he married her and was crowned king of the country. And thewolves all went peacefully back to their own homes, and Ferko and hisbride lived for many years in peace and happiness together, and were muchbeloved by great and small in the land.