Then said the sheykh, Know, O 'Efreet, that this gazelle is the daughterof my paternal uncle, and she is of my flesh and my blood. Itook her as my wife when she was young, and lived with herabout thirty years. but I was not blessed with a child by her. so I tookto me a concubine slave, and by her I was blessed with a malechild, like the rising full moon, with beautiful eyes, anddelicately shaped eyebrows, and perfectly formed limbs. and he grew upby little and little until he attained the age of fifteen years. At thisperiod, I unexpectedly had occasion to journey to a certain city, andwent thither with a great stock of merchandise.Now my cousin, this gazelle, had studied enchantment anddivination from her early years. and during my absence, she transformedthe youth above mentioned into a calf. and his mother, into acow. and committed them to the care of the herdsman: and whenI returned, after a long time, from my journey, I asked after my son andhis mother, and she said, Thy slave is dead, and thy son hath fled, andI know not whither he is gone. After hearing this, I remained for thespace of a year with mourning heart and weeping eye, until the Festivalof the Sacrifice. when I sent to the herdsman, and orderedhim to choose for me a fat cow. and he brought me one, and it was myconcubine, whom this gazelle had enchanted. I tucked up my skirts andsleeves, and took the knife in my hand, and prepared myselfto slaughter her. upon which she moaned and cried so violently that Ileft her, and ordered the herdsman to kill and skin her: and he did so,but found in her neither fat nor flesh, nor anything but skin and bone.and I repented of slaughtering her, when repentance was of no avail. Itherefore gave her to the herdsman, and said to him, Bring me a fatcalf: and he brought me my son, who was transformed into a calf. Andwhen the calf saw me, he broke his rope, and came to me, and fawned uponme, and wailed and cried, so that I was moved with pity for him. and Isaid to the herdsman, Bring me a cow, and let this Here Shahrazad perceived the light of morning, and discontinued therecitation with which she had been allowed thus far to proceed. Hersister said to her, How excellent is thy story! and how pretty! and howpleasant! and how sweet! but she answered, What is this in comparisonwith that which I will relate to thee in the next night, if I live, andthe King spare me! And the King said, By Allah, I will not kill heruntil I hear the remainder of her story. Thus they pleasantly passed thenight until the morning, when the King went forth to his hall ofjudgment, and the Wezeer went thither with the grave clothes under hisarm: and the King gave judgment, and invested and displaced, until theclose of the day, without informing the Wezeer of that which hadhappened. and the minister was greatly astonished. The court was thendissolved. and the King returned to the privacy of his palace.(On the second and each succeeding night, Shahrazad continued so tointerest King Shahriyar by her stories as to induce him to defer puttingher to death, in expectation that her fund of amusing tales would soonbe exhausted. and as this is expressed in the original work in nearlythe same words at the close of every night, such repetitions will in thepresent translation be omitted.When the sheykh, continued Shahrazad, observed the tears of the calf,his heart sympathized with him, and he said to the herdsman, Let thiscalf remain with the cattle. Meanwhile, the Jinnee wondered at thisstrange story. and the owner of the gazelle thus proceeded.O lord of the kings of the Jann, while this happened, my cousin, thisgazelle, looked on, and said, Slaughter this calf. for he is fat: but Icould not do it. so I ordered the herdsman to take him back. and he tookhim and went away. And as I was sitting, on the following day, he cameto me, and said, O my master, I have to tell thee something that thouwilt be rejoiced to hear. and a reward is due to me for bringing goodnews. I answered, Well: and he said, O merchant, I have adaughter who learned enchantment in her youth from an old woman in ourfamily. and yesterday, when thou gavest me the calf, I took him to her,and she looked at him, and covered her face, and wept, and then laughed,and said, O my father, hath my condition become so degraded in thyopinion that thou bringest before me strange men? Where,said I, are any strange men? and wherefore didst thou weep and laugh?She answered, This calf that is with thee is the son of our master, themerchant, and the wife of our master hath enchanted both him and hismother. and this was the reason of my laughter. but as to the reason ofmy weeping, it was on account of his mother, because his father hadslaughtered her. And I was excessively astonished at this. and scarcelywas I certain that the light of morning had appeared when I hastened toinform thee.When I heard, O Jinnee, the words of the herdsman, I went forth withhim, intoxicated without wine, from the excessive joy and happiness thatI received, and arrived at his house, where his daughter welcomed me,and kissed my hand. and the calf came to me, and fawned upon me. And Isaid to the herdsman's daughter, Is that true which thou hast saidrespecting this calf? She answered, Yes, O my master. he is verily thyson, and the vital spirit of thy heart. O maiden, said I, if thou wiltrestore him, all the cattle and other property of mine that thy fatherhath under his care shall be thine. Upon this, she smiled, and said, Omy master, I have no desire for the property unless on two conditions:the first is, that thou shalt marry me to him. and the second, that Ishall enchant her who enchanted him, and so restrain her. otherwise, Ishall not be secure from her artifice. On hearing, O Jinnee, these herwords, I said, And thou shalt have all the property that is under thecare of thy father besides. and as to my cousin, even her blood shall belawful to thee. So, when she heard this, she took a cup, and filled itwith water, and repeated a spell over it, and sprinkled with it thecalf, saying to him, If God created thee a calf, remain in this form,and be not changed. but if thou be enchanted, return to thy originalform, by permission of God, whose name be exalted! upon which he shook,and became a man. and I threw myself upon him, and said, I conjure theeby Allah that thou relate to me all that my cousin did to thee and tothy mother. So he related to me all that had happened to them both. andI said to him, O my son, God hath given thee one to liberate thee, andto avenge thee: and I married to him, O Jinnee, the herdsman'sdaughter. after which, she transformed my cousin into this gazelle. Andas I happened to pass this way, I saw this merchant, and asked him whathad happened to him. and when he had informed me, I sat down to see theresult. This is my story. The Jinnee said, This is a wonderful tale.and I give up to thee a third of my claim to his blood.The second sheykh, the owner of the two hounds, then advanced, and saidto the Jinnee, If I relate to thee the story of myself and these hounds,and thou find it to be in like manner wonderful, wilt thou remit to me,also, a third of thy claim to the blood of this merchant? The Jinneeanswered, Yes.THE STORY OF THE SECOND SHEYKH AND THE TWO BLACK HOUNDS.Then said the sheykh, Know, O lord of the kings of the Jann, that thesetwo hounds are my brothers. My father died, and left to us threethousand pieces of gold. tosell and buy. But one of my brothers made a journey, with a stock ofmerchandise, and was absent from us for the space of a year with thecaravans. after which, he returned destitute. I said to him, Did I notadvise thee to abstain from travelling? But he wept, and said, O mybrother, God, to whom be ascribed all might and glory, decreed thisevent. and there is no longer any profit in these words: I have nothingleft. So I took him up into the shop, and then went with him to thebath, and clad him in a costly suit of my own clothing. after which, wesat down together to eat. and I said to him, O my brother, I willcalculate the gain of my shop during the year, and divide it, exclusiveof the principal, between me and thee. Accordingly, I made thecalculation, and found my gain to amount to two thousand pieces of gold.and I praised God, to whom be ascribed all might and glory, and rejoicedexceedingly, and divided the gain in two equal parts between myself andhim. My other brother then set forth on a journey. and after a year,returned in the like condition. and I did unto him as I had done to theformer.After this, when we had lived together for some time, my brothers againwished to travel, and were desirous that I should accompany them. but Iwould not. What, said I, have ye gained in your travels, that I shouldexpect to gain? They importuned me. but I would not comply with theirrequest. and we remained selling and buying in our shops a whole year.Still, however, they persevered in proposing that we should travel, andI still refused, until after the lapse of six entire years, when at lastI consented, and said to them, O my brothers, let us calculate whatproperty we possess. We did so, and found it to be six thousand piecesof gold: and I then said to them, We will bury half of it in the earth,that it may be of service to us if any misfortune befall us, in whichcase each of us shall take a thousand pieces, with which totraffic. Excellent is thy advice, said they. So I took themoney and divided it into two equal portions, and buried three thousandpieces of gold. and of the other half, I gave to each of them a thousandpieces. We then prepared merchandise, and hired a ship, and embarked ourgoods, and proceeded on our voyage for the space of a whole month, atthe expiration of which we arrived at a city, where we sold ourmerchandise. and for every piece of gold we gained ten.