Once upon a time there was a king who had nothing better to do than to become friendly with a blacksmith's wife who lived in the vicinity of the castle. The king visited her often, but her husband was in his way, so he decided to get rid of him. Therefore one day the king commanded the poor fellow to make him a magnificent castle standing on four pillars, and it had to be finished in three days, or else the blacksmith would lose his life.The blacksmith saw that he was doomed, and in despair wandered into the woods.At last he came to an old woman who asked what was troubling him. He told her of the kings hardheartedness and asked for advise. Then the old woman taught him the magic that he would need to finish the castle.When the king saw the castle, he was amazed and angry, and now he commanded the blacksmith to dig a great moat around the new castle and to build four bridges over the moat, with a gate for each one, and all that within three days. The blacksmith, using the old woman's magic, completed this task in three days as well.The king was even more amazed and more angry, because now he did not know what kind of a difficult and impossible task he would be able to give the blacksmith in order to find an excuse to take his life. Finally the king, quite beside himself, declared, "If you don't want to lose your life, you must make a himphamp for me in three days!" The smith did not even know what a himphamp was, so more desperate than ever, he walked away.Once again he found the old woman, who said to him, "Make a chamber pot of iron and place it under your bed. Then hide, and when you see anyone touch it, just say hold fast quietly to yourself, and you will soon see a himphamp!"The blacksmith did what the old woman said.One evening the king came, as usual, to visit the blacksmiths wife, and the smith hid himself where he could watch. The lovers got undressed, and the wife got into bed. Before following her, the king had to use the pot. As soon as he touched the iron pot, the smith whispered, "Hold fast," and the king, wearing only his nightshirt, stuck to the pot. The wife jumped out of bed and tried to tear the pot loose, but as soon as she touched it, the smith whispered "hold fast," and she too became stuck.The king was enraged at this tomfoolery, and the smith's wife began to cry. Her maid heard the commotion and, half asleep and stark naked, came running to help them. But she too became stuck, just like the others.Then the smith stepped forward and drove all three from the house with an iron club. It was almost daytime, and the embarrassed maid picked up a bundle of hay and tried to cover her shame with it. A cow came by and wanted to get at the hay, but the smith said "hold fast!" and it also became attached. Then a bull came by and mounted the cow, and the smith called out once more, "Hold fast!"He drove them   all stuck to the iron pot   up one street and down another. The people were just beginning to stir, and they all laughed and jeered. A small boy looked out from his window and shouted, "What a himphamp!" The townspeople joined the smith, and together they drove the entire himphamp into the deep moat at the castle. Then they made the clever blacksmith their new king.