MagicA soldier was quartered in a certain town. He had taken to study the blackart, and had got possession of books which dealt therewith. One day,during his absence from his quarters, one of his comrades came to see him.Not finding him at home, the visitor took up one of the soldier's books,and for want of other occupation began to read it. It was in the evening,and he read by the light of a lamp. The book was full of names and nothingelse.He had read about half of the names when he raised his head, and lookingaround him, saw that the room was full of diabolical looking beings. Thesoldier was struck with terror, and not knowing what to do, began again toread the book. After reading for some little time, he again looked roundhim. the number of spirits had increased. Again he read, and havingfinished the book, looked again around him. By this time the number ofdemons had so much increased that there was barely space for them in theroom. They sat upon each other's shoulders, and pressed continuallyforward round the reader. The soldier saw that the situation was serious.he shut the book, closed his eyes, and anxiously awaited his comrade.The spirits pressed closer and closer upon him, crying, "Give us work todo   quick!"The soldier reflected awhile, and then said, "Fill up the cisterns of allthe baths in the town with water brought thither in a sieve."The demons flew away. In two minutes they returned and said, "It is done!Give us some more work to do   quick!"" Pull the Voivode's (governor's) house down, brick by brick   but takecare you do not touch or disturb the inmates. then build it up again as itwas before."The goblins disappeared, but in two minutes returned. "It is done!" theycried. "Give us more work   quick!""Go," said the soldier," and count the grains of sand that lie at thebottom of the Volga, the number of drops of water that are in the river,and of the fish that swim in it, from its source to its mouth."The spirits flew away. but in another minute they returned, havingexecuted their task. Thus, before the soldier could think of some newlabor to be done, the old one was completed, and the demons were again athis side demanding more work. When he began to think what he should givethem, they pressed round him, and threatened him with instant death if hedid not give them something to do. The soldier was becoming exhausted, andthere was yet no sign of his comrade's return. What course should he take?How deliver himself from the evil spirits?The soldier thought to himself, "While I was reading the book, not one ofthe demons came near me. Let me try to read it again. perhaps that willkeep them off."Again he began to read the book of magic, but he soon observed that as heread, the number of phantoms increased, so that soon such a host of thespirit world surrounded him that the very lamp was scarcely visible. Whenthe soldier hesitated at a word, or paused to rest himself, the goblinsbecame more restless and violent, demanding, "Give us work to do! Give uswork!"The soldier was almost worn out, and unhappily knew not how to helphimself.Suddenly a thought occurred to him, "The spirits appeared when I read thebook from the beginning. let me now read it from the end, perhaps thiswell send them way."He turned the book round and began to read it from the end. After readingfor some time he observed that the number of spirits decreased. the lampbegan again to burn brightly, and there was an empty space around him.The soldier was delighted, and continued his reading. He read and readuntil he had read them all away. And thus he saved himself from thedemons. His comrade came in soon afterwards. The soldier told him what hadhappened."It is fortunate for you," said his comrade, "that you began to read thebook backwards in time. Had you not thus read them away by midnight theywould have devoured you."