Once upon a time there lived a respectable young tailor called Labakan,who worked for a clever master in Alexandria. No one could callLabakan either stupid or lazy, for he could work extremely well andquickly when he chose. but there was something not altogether rightabout him. Sometimes he would stitch away as fast as if he had a red hotneedle and a burning thread, and at other times he would sit lost inthought, and with such a queer look about him that his fellow workmenused to say, 'Labakan has got on his aristocratic face today.'On Fridays he would put on his fine robe which he had bought with themoney he had managed to save up, and go to the mosque. As he came back,after prayers, if he met any friend who said 'Good day,' or 'How areyou, friend Labakan?' he would wave his hand graciously or nod in acondescending way. and if his master happened to say to him, as hesometimes did, 'Really, Labakan, you look like a prince,' he wasdelighted, and would answer, 'Have you noticed it too?' or 'Well, so Ihave long thought.'Things went on like this for some time, and the master put up withLabakan's absurdities because he was, on the whole, a good fellow and aclever workman.One day, the sultan's brother happened to be passing through Alexandria,and wanted to have one of his state robes altered, so he sent for themaster tailor, who handed the robe over to Labakan as his best workman.In the evening, when every one had left the workshop and gone home, agreat longing drove Labakan back to the place where the royal robe hung.He stood a long time gazing at it, admiring the rich material and thesplendid embroidery in it. At last he could hold out no longer. He felthe must try it on, and lo! and behold, it fitted as though it had beenmade for him.'Am not I as good a prince as any other?' he asked himself, as heproudly paced up and down the room. 'Has not the master often said thatI seemed born to be a prince?'It seemed to him that he must be the son of some unknown monarch, and atlast he determined to set out at once and travel in search of his properrank.He felt as if the splendid robe had been sent him by some kind fairy,and he took care not to neglect such a precious gift. He collected allhis savings, and, concealed by the darkness of the night, he passedthrough the gates of Alexandria.The new prince excited a good deal of curiosity where ever he went, forhis splendid robe and majestic manner did not seem quite suitable to aperson travelling on foot. If anyone asked questions, he only repliedwith an important air of mystery that he had his own reasons for notriding.However, he soon found out that walking made him ridiculous, so at lasthe bought a quiet, steady old horse, which he managed to get cheap.One day, as he was ambling along upon Murva (that was the horse's name),a horseman overtook him and asked leave to join him, so that they mightboth beguile the journey with pleasant talk. The newcomer was a bright,cheerful, good looking young man, who soon plunged into conversation andasked many questions. He told Labakan that his own name was Omar, thathe was a nephew of Elfi Bey, and was travelling in order to carry out acommand given him by his uncle on his death bed. Labakan was not quiteso open in his confidences, but hinted that he too was of noble birthand was travelling for pleasure.The two young men took a fancy to each other and rode on together. Onthe second day of their journey Labakan questioned Omar as to the ordershe had to carry out, and to his surprise heard this tale.Elfi Bey, Pacha of Cairo, had brought up Omar from his earliestchildhood, and the boy had never known his parents. On his deathbed ElfiBey called Omar to him, and then told him that he was not his nephew,but the son of a great king, who, having been warned of coming dangersby his astrologers, had sent the young prince away and made a vow not tosee him till his twenty second birthday.Elfi Bey did not tell Omar his father's name, but expressly desired himto be at a great pillar four days' journey east of Alexandria on thefourth day of the coming month, on which day he would be twenty twoyears old. Here he would meet some men, to whom he was to hand a daggerwhich Elfi Bey gave him, and to say 'Here am I for whom you seek.'If they answered: 'Praised be the Prophet who has preserved you,' he wasto follow them, and they would take him to his father.Labakan was greatly surprised and interested by this story, but afterhearing it he could not help looking on Prince Omar with envious eyes,angry that his friend should have the position he himself longed so muchfor. He began to make comparisons between the prince and himself, andwas obliged to confess that he was a fine looking young man with verygood manners and a pleasant expression.At the same time, he felt sure that had he been in the prince's placeany royal father might have been glad to own him.These thoughts haunted him all day, and he dreamt them all night. Hewoke very early, and as he saw Omar sleeping quietly, with a happy smileon his face, a wish arose in his mind to take by force or by cunning thethings which an unkind fate had denied him.The dagger which was to act as a passport was sticking in Omar's girdle.Labakan drew it gently out, and hesitated for a moment whether or not toplunge it into the heart of the sleeping prince. However, he shrank fromthe idea of murder, so he contented himself with placing the dagger inhis own belt, and, saddling Omar's swift horse for himself, was manymiles away before the prince woke up to realise his losses.For two days Labakan rode on steadily, fearing lest, after all, Omarmight reach the meeting place before him. At the end of the second dayhe saw the great pillar at a distance. It stood on a little hill inthe middle of a plain, and could be seen a very long way off. Labakan'sheart beat fast at the sight. Though he had had some time in which tothink over the part he meant to play his conscience made him ratheruneasy. However, the thought that he must certainly have been born to bea king supported him, and he bravely rode on.The neighbourhood was quite bare and desert, and it was a good thingthat the new prince had brought food for some time with him, as two dayswere still wanting till the appointed time.Towards the middle of the next day he saw a long procession of horsesand camels coming towards him. It halted at the bottom of the hill, andsome splendid tents were pitched. Everything looked like the escort ofsome great man. Labakan made a shrewd guess that all these people hadcome here on his account. but he checked his impatience, knowing thatonly on the fourth day could his wishes be fulfilled.The first rays of the rising sun woke the happy tailor. As he began tosaddle his horse and prepare to ride to the pillar, he could not helphaving some remorseful thoughts of the trick he had played and theblighted hopes of the real prince. But the die was cast, and his vanitywhispered that he was as fine looking a young man as the proudest kingmight wish his son to be, and that, moreover, what had happened hadhappened.With these thoughts he summoned up all his courage sprang on his horse,and in less than a quarter of an hour was at the foot of the hill. Herehe dismounted, tied the horse to a bush, and, drawing out Prince Omar'sdagger climbed up the hill.At the foot of the pillar stood six men round a tall and stately person.His superb robe of cloth of gold was girt round him by a white cashmereshawl, and his white, richly jewelled turban showed that he was a man ofwealth and high rank.Labakan went straight up to him, and, bending low, handed him thedagger, saying: 'Here am I whom you seek.''Praised be the Prophet who has preserved you! replied the old man withtears of joy. 'Embrace me, my dear son Omar!'The proud tailor was deeply moved by these solemn words, and withmingled shame and joy sank into the old king's arms.But his happiness was not long unclouded. As he raised his head he saw ahorseman who seemed trying to urge a tired or unwilling horse across theplain.Only too soon Labakan recognised his own old horse, Murva, and the realPrince Omar, but having once told a lie he made up his mind not to ownhis deceit.At last the horseman reached the foot of the hill. Here he flung himselffrom the saddle and hurried up to the pillar.'Stop!' he cried, 'whoever you may be, and do not let a disgracefulimpostor take you in. My name is Omar, and let no one attempt to rob meof it.'This turn of affairs threw the standers by into great surprise. The oldking in particular seemed much moved as he looked from one face to theother. At last Labakan spoke with forced calmness, 'Most gracious lordand father, do not let yourself be deceived by this man. As far as Iknow, he is a half crazy tailor's apprentice from Alexandria, calledLabakan, who really deserves more pity than anger.'These words infuriated the prince. Foaming with rage, he tried to presstowards Labakan, but the attendants threw themselves upon him and heldhim fast, whilst the king said, 'Truly, my dear son, the poor fellow isquite mad. Let him be bound and placed on a dromedary. Perhaps we may beable to get some help for him.'The prince's first rage was over, and with tears he cried to the king,'My heart tells me that you are my father, and in my mother's name Ientreat you to hear me.''Oh! heaven forbid!' was the reply. 'He is talking nonsense again. Howcan the poor man have got such notions into his head?'With these words the king took Labakan's arm to support him down thehill. They both mounted richly caparisoned horses and rode across theplain at the head of their followers.The unlucky prince was tied hand and foot, and fastened on a dromedary,a guard riding on either side and keeping a sharp look out on him.The old king was Sached, Sultan of the Wachabites. For many years hehad had no children, but at length the son he had so long wished forwas born. But the sooth sayers and magicians whom he consulted as to thechild's future all said that until he was twenty two years old he stoodin danger of being injured by an enemy. So, to make all safe, the sultanhad confided the prince to his trusty friend Elfi Bey, and deprivedhimself of the happiness of seeing him for twenty two years. All thisthe sultan told Labakan, and was much pleased by his appearance anddignified manner.When they reached their own country they were received with everysign of joy, for the news of the prince's safe return had spreadlike wildfire, and every town and village was decorated, whilst theinhabitants thronged to greet them with cries of joy and thankfulness.All this filled Labakan's proud heart with rapture, whilst theunfortunate Omar followed in silent rage and despair.At length they arrived in the capital, where the public rejoicings weregrander and more brilliant than anywhere else. The queen awaited themin the great hall of the palace, surrounded by her entire court. It wasgetting dark, and hundreds of coloured hanging lamps were lit to turnnight into day.The brightest hung round the throne on which the queen sat, and whichstood above four steps of pure gold inlaid with great amethysts. Thefour greatest nobles in the kingdom held a canopy of crimson silk overthe queen, and the Sheik of Medina fanned her with a peacock featherfan.In this state she awaited her husband and her son. She, too, had notseen Omar since his birth, but so many dreams had shown her what hewould look like that she felt she would know him among a thousand.And now the sound of trumpets and drums and of shouts and cheers outsideannounced the long looked for moment. The doors flew open, and betweenrows of low bending courtiers and servants the king approached thethrone, leading his pretended son by the hand.'Here,' said he, 'is he for whom you have been longing so many years.'But the queen interrupted him, 'That is not my son!' she cried. 'That isnot the face the Prophet has shown me in my dreams!'Just as the king was about to reason with her, the door was thrownviolently open, and Prince Omar rushed in, followed by his keepers,whom he had managed to get away from. He flung himself down before thethrone, panting out, 'Here will I die. kill me at once, cruel father,for I cannot bear this shame any longer.'Everyone pressed round the unhappy man, and the guards were about toseize him, when the queen, who at first was dumb with surprise, sprangup from her throne.'Hold!' cried she. 'This and no other is the right one. this is the onewhom my eyes have never yet seen, but whom my heart recognises.'The guards had stepped back, but the king called to them in a furiousvoice to secure the madman.'It is I who must judge,' he said in tones of command. 'and this mattercannot be decided by women's dreams, but by certain unmistakable signs.This one' (pointing to Labakan) 'is my son, for it was he who brought methe token from my friend Elfi the dagger.''He stole it from me,' shrieked Omar. 'he betrayed my unsuspiciousconfidence.'But the king would not listen to his son's voice, for he had always beenaccustomed to depend on his own judgment. He let the unhappy Omar bedragged from the hall, whilst he himself retired with Labakan to hisown rooms, full of anger with the queen his wife, in spite of their manyyears of happy life together.The queen, on her side, was plunged in grief, for she felt certain thatan impostor had won her husband's heart and taken the place of her realson.When the first shock was over she began to think how she could manageto convince the king of his mistake. Of course it would be a difficultmatter, as the man who declared he was Omar had produced the dagger as atoken, besides talking of all sorts of things which happened when hewas a child. She called her oldest and wisest ladies about her and askedtheir advice, but none of them had any to give. At last one very cleverold woman said: 'Did not the young man who brought the dagger call himwhom your majesty believes to be your son Labakan, and say he was acrazy tailor?''Yes,' replied the queen. 'but what of that?''Might it not be,' said the old lady, 'that the impostor has calledyour real son by his own name? If this should be the case, I know of acapital way to find out the truth.'And she whispered some words to the queen, who seemed much pleased, andwent off at once to see the king.Now the queen was a very wise woman, so she pretended to think she mighthave made a mistake, and only begged to be allowed to put a test to thetwo young men to prove which was the real prince.The king, who was feeling much ashamed of the rage he had been in withhis dear wife, consented at once, and she said: 'No doubt others wouldmake them ride or shoot, or something of that sort, but every one learnsthese things. I wish to set them a task which requires sharp wits andclever hands, and I want them to try which of them can best make akaftan and pair of trousers.'The king laughed. 'No, no, that will never do. Do you suppose my sonwould compete with that crazy tailor as to which could make the bestclothes? Oh, dear, no, that won't do at all.'But the queen claimed his promise, and as he was a man of his word theking gave in at last. He went to his son and begged that he would humourhis mother, who had set her heart on his making a kaftan.The worthy Labakan laughed to himself. 'If that is all she wants,'thought he, 'her majesty will soon be pleased to own me.'Two rooms were prepared, with pieces of material, scissors, needles andthreads, and each young man was shut up in one of them.The king felt rather curious as to what sort of garment his son wouldmake, and the queen, too, was very anxious as to the result of herexperiment.On the third day they sent for the two young men and their work. Labakancame first and spread out his kaftan before the eyes of the astonishedking. 'See, father,' he said. 'see, my honoured mother, if this is not amasterpiece of work. I'll bet the court tailor himself cannot do better.The queen smiled and turned to Omar: 'And what have you done, my son?'Impatiently he threw the stuff and scissors down on the floor. 'I havebeen taught how to manage a horse, to draw a sword, and to throw a lancesome sixty paces, but I never learnt to sew, and such a thing would havebeen thought beneath the notice of the pupil of Elfi Bey, the ruler ofCairo.''Ah, true son of your father,' cried the queen. 'if only I might embraceyou and call you son! Forgive me, my lord and husband,' she added,turning to the king, 'for trying to find out the truth in this way.Do you not see yourself now which is the prince and which the tailor?Certainly this kaftan is a very fine one, but I should like to know whatmaster taught this young man how to make clothes.'The king sat deep in thought, looking now at his wife and now atLabakan, who was doing his best to hide his vexation at his ownstupidity. At last the king said: 'Even this trial does not satisfy me.but happily I know of a sure way to discover whether or not I have beendeceived.'He ordered his swiftest horse to be saddled, mounted, and rode off aloneinto a forest at some little distance. Here lived a kindly fairy calledAdolzaide, who had often helped the kings of his race with her goodadvice, and to her he betook himself.In the middle of the forest was a wide open space surrounded by greatcedar trees, and this was supposed to be the fairy's favourite spot.When the king reached this place he dismounted, tied his horse to thetree, and standing in the middle of the open place said: 'If it is truethat you have helped my ancestors in their time of need, do not despisetheir descendant, but give me counsel, for that of men has failed me.'He had hardly finished speaking when one of the cedar trees opened, anda veiled figure all dressed in white stepped from it.'I know your errand, King Sached,' she said. 'it is an honest one, andI will give you my help. Take these two little boxes and let the twomen who claim to be your son choose between them. I know that the realprince will make no mistake.'She then handed him two little boxes made of ivory set with gold andpearls. On the lid of each (which the king vainly tried to open) was aninscription in diamonds. On one stood the words 'Honour and Glory,' andon the other 'Wealth and Happiness.''It would be a hard choice,' thought the king as he rode home.He lost no time in sending for the queen and for all his court, and whenall were assembled he made a sign, and Labakan was led in. With a proudair he walked up to the throne, and kneeling down, asked:'What does my lord and father command?'The king replied: 'My son, doubts have been thrown on your claim to thatname. One of these boxes contains the proofs of your birth. Choose foryourself. No doubt you will choose right.'He then pointed to the ivory boxes, which were placed on two littletables near the throne.Labakan rose and looked at the boxes. He thought for some minutes, andthen said: 'My honoured father, what can be better than the happiness ofbeing your son, and what nobler than the riches of your love. I choosethe box with the words "Wealth and Happiness."''We shall see presently if you have chosen the right one. For thepresent take a seat there beside the Pacha of Medina,' replied the king.Omar was next led in, looking sad and sorrowful. He threw himself downbefore the throne and asked what was the king's pleasure. The kingpointed out the two boxes to him, and he rose and went to the tables. Hecarefully read the two mottoes and said: 'The last few days have shownme how uncertain is happiness and how easily riches vanish away. ShouldI lose a crown by it I make my choice of "Honour and Glory."'He laid his hand on the box as he spoke, but the king signed to him towait, and ordered Labakan to come to the other table and lay his hand onthe box he had chosen.Then the king rose from his throne, and in solemn silence all presentrose too, whilst he said: 'Open the boxes, and may Allah show us thetruth.'The boxes were opened with the greatest ease. In the one Omar had chosenlay a little gold crown and sceptre on a velvet cushion. In Labakan'sbox was found a large needle with some thread!The king told the two young men to bring him their boxes. They did so.He took the crown in his hand, and as he held it, it grew bigger andbigger, till it was as large as a real crown. He placed it on the headof his son Omar, kissed him on the forehead, and placed him on his righthand. Then, turning to Labakan, he said: 'There is an old proverb, "Thecobbler sticks to his last." It seems as though you were to stick toyour needle. You have not deserved any mercy, but I cannot be harsh onthis day. I give you your life, but I advise you to leave this countryas fast as you can.'Full of shame, the unlucky tailor could not answer. He flung himselfdown before Omar, and with tears in his eyes asked: 'Can you forgive me,prince?''Go in peace,' said Omar as he raised him.'Oh, my true son!' cried the king as he clasped the prince in his arms,whilst all the pachas and emirs shouted, 'Long live Prince Omar!'In the midst of all the noise and rejoicing Labakan slipped off with hislittle box under his arm. He went to the stables, saddled his old horse,Murva, and rode out of the gate towards Alexandria. Nothing but theivory box with its diamond motto was left to show him that the last fewweeks had not been a dream.When he reached Alexandria he rode up to his old master's door. When heentered the shop, his master came forward to ask what was his pleasure,but as soon as he saw who it was he called his workmen, and they allfell on Labakan with blows and angry words, till at last he fell, halffainting, on a heap of old clothes.The master then scolded him soundly about the stolen robe, but in vainLabakan told him he had come to pay for it and offered three times itsprice. They only fell to beating him again, and at last pushed him outof the house more dead than alive.He could do nothing but remount his horse and ride to an inn. Here hefound a quiet place in which to rest his bruised and battered limbs andto think over his many misfortunes. He fell asleep fully determined togive up trying to be great, but to lead the life of an honest workman.Next morning he set to work to fulfil his good resolutions. He sold hislittle box to a jeweller for a good price, bought a house and opened aworkshop. Then he hung up a sign with, 'Labakan, Tailor,' over his door,and sat down to mend his own torn clothes with the very needle which hadbeen in the ivory box.After a while he was called away, and when he went back to his work hefound a wonderful thing had happened! The needle was sewing away all byitself and making the neatest little stitches, such as Labakan had neverbeen able to make even at his best.Certainly even the smallest gift of a kind fairy is of great value, andthis one had yet another advantage, for the thread never came to an end,however much the needle sewed.Labakan soon got plenty of customers. He used to cut out the clothes,make the first stitch with the magic needle, and then leave it to do therest. Before long the whole town went to him, for his work was both sogood and so cheap. The only puzzle was how he could do so much, workingall alone, and also why he worked with closed doors.And so the promise on the ivory box of 'Wealth and Happiness' came truefor him, and when he heard of all the brave doings of Prince Omar, whowas the pride and darling of his people and the terror of his enemies,the ex prince thought to himself, 'After all, I am better off as atailor, for "Honour and Glory" are apt to be very dangerous things.'