Long, long ago, there lived a king who ruled over a country by the sea.When he had been married about a year, some of his subjects, inhabitinga distant group of islands, revolted against his laws, and it becameneedful for him to leave his wife and go in person to settle theirdisputes. The queen feared that some ill would come of it, and imploredhim to stay at home, but he told her that nobody could do his work forhim, and the next morning the sails were spread, and the king started onhis voyage.The vessel had not gone very far when she ran upon a rock, and stuck sofast in a cleft that the strength of the whole crew could not get heroff again. To make matters worse, the wind was rising too, and it wasquite plain that in a few hours the ship would be dashed to pieces andeverybody would be drowned, when suddenly the form of a mermaid was seendancing on the waves which threatened every moment to overwhelm them.'There is only one way to free yourselves,' she said to the king,bobbing up and down in the water as she spoke, 'and that is to give meyour solemn word that you will deliver to me the first child that isborn to you.'The king hesitated at this proposal. He hoped that some day he mighthave children in his home, and the thought that he must yield up theheir to his crown was very bitter to him. but just then a huge wavebroke with great force on the ship's side, and his men fell on theirknees and entreated him to save them.So he promised, and this time a wave lifted the vessel clean off therocks, and she was in the open sea once more.The affairs of the islands took longer to settle than the king hadexpected, and some months passed away before he returned to his palace.In his absence a son had been born to him, and so great was his joy thathe quite forgot the mermaid and the price he had paid for the safety ofhis ship. But as the years went on, and the baby grew into a fine bigboy, the remembrance of it came back, and one day he told the queenthe whole story. From that moment the happiness of both their lives wasruined. Every night they went to bed wondering if they should find hisroom empty in the morning, and every day they kept him by their sides,expecting him to be snatched away before their very eyes.At last the king felt that this state of things could not continue, andhe said to his wife:'After all, the most foolish thing in the world one can do is to keepthe boy here in exactly the place in which the mermaid will seek him.Let us give him food and send him on his travels, and perhaps, if themermaid ever blocs come to seek him, she may be content with some otherchild.' And the queen agreed that his plan seemed the wisest.So the boy was called, and his father told him the story of the voyage,as he had told his mother before him. The prince listened eagerly, andwas delighted to think that he was to go away all by himself to seethe world, and was not in the least frightened. for though he was nowsixteen, he had scarcely been allowed to walk alone beyond the palacegardens. He began busily to make his preparations, and took off hissmart velvet coat, putting on instead one of green cloth, while herefused a beautiful bag which the queen offered him to hold his food,and slung a leather knapsack over his shoulders instead, just as he hadseen other travellers do. Then he bade farewell to his parents and wenthis way.All through the day he walked, watching with interest the strange birdsand animals that darted across his path in the forest or peeped at himfrom behind a bush. But as evening drew on he became tired, and lookedabout as he walked for some place where he could sleep. At length hereached a soft mossy bank under a tree, and was just about to stretchhimself out on it, when a fearful roar made him start and tremble allover. In another moment something passed swiftly through the air and alion stood before him.'What are you doing here?' asked the lion, his eyes glaring fiercely atthe boy.'I am flying from the mermaid,' the prince answered, in a quaking voice.'Give me some food then,' said the lion, 'it is past my supper time, andI am very hungry.'The boy was so thankful that the lion did not want to eat him, that hegladly picked up his knapsack which lay on the ground, and held out somebread and a flask of wine.'I feel better now,' said the lion when he had done, 'so now I shall goto sleep on this nice soft moss, and if you like you can lie down besideme.' So the boy and the lion slept soundly side by side, till the sunrose.'I must be off now,' remarked the lion, shaking the boy as he spoke.'but cut off the tip of my ear, and keep it carefully, and if you arein any danger just wish yourself a lion and you will become one on thespot. One good turn deserves another, you know.'The prince thanked him for his kindness, and did as he was bid, and thetwo then bade each other farewell.'I wonder how it feels to be a lion,' thought the boy, after he had gonea little way. and he took out the tip of the ear from the breast of hisjacket and wished with all his might. In an instant his head had swollento several times its usual size, and his neck seemed very hot and heavy.and, somehow, his hands became paws, and his skin grew hairy and yellow.But what pleased him most was his long tail with a tuft at the end,which he lashed and switched proudly. 'I like being a lion very much,'he said to himself, and trotted gaily along the road.After a while, however, he got tired of walking in this unaccustomedway it made his back ache and his front paws felt sore. So he wishedhimself a boy again, and in the twinkling of an eye his tail disappearedand his head shrank, and the long thick mane became short and curly.Then he looked out for a sleeping place, and found some dry ferns, whichhe gathered and heaped up.But before he had time to close his eyes there was a great noise in thetrees near by, as if a big heavy body was crashing through them. The boyrose and turned his head, and saw a huge black bear coming towards him.'What are you doing here?' cried the bear.'I am running away from the mermaid,' answered the boy. but the beartook no interest in the mermaid, and only said: 'I am hungry. give mesomething to eat.'The knapsack was lying on the ground among the fern, but the princepicked it up, and, unfastening the strap, took out his second flaskof wine and another loaf of bread. 'We will have supper together,' heremarked politely. but the bear, who had never been taught manners, madeno reply, and ate as fast as he could. When he had quite finished, hegot up and stretched himself.'You have got a comfortable looking bed there,' he observed. 'I reallythink that, bad sleeper as I am, I might have a good night on it. I canmanage to squeeze you in,' he added. 'you don't take up a great deal ofroom.' The boy was rather indignant at the bear's cool way of talking.but as he was too tired to gather more fern, they lay down side by side,and never stirred till sunrise next morning.'I must go now,' said the bear, pulling the sleepy prince on to hisfeet. 'but first you shall cut off the tip of my ear, and when you arein any danger just wish yourself a bear and you will become one. Onegood turn deserves another, you know.' And the boy did as he was bid,and he and the bear bade each other farewell.'I wonder how it feels to be a bear,' thought he to himself when he hadwalked a little way. and he took out the tip from the breast of his coatand wished hard that he might become a bear. The next moment his bodystretched out and thick black fur covered him all over. As before, hishands were changed into paws, but when he tried to switch his tailhe found to his disgust that it would not go any distance. 'Why itis hardly worth calling a tail!' said he. For the rest of the day heremained a bear and continued his journey, but as evening came on thebear skin, which had been so useful when plunging through brambles inthe forest, felt rather heavy, and he wished himself a boy again. He wastoo much exhausted to take the trouble of cutting any fern or seekingfor moss, but just threw himself down under a tree, when exactlyabove his head he heard a great buzzing as a bumble bee alighted on ahoneysuckle branch. 'What are you doing here?' asked the bee in a crossvoice. 'at your age you ought to be safe at home.''I am running away from the mermaid,' replied the boy. but the bee, likethe lion and the bear, was one of those people who never listen tothe answers to their questions, and only said: 'I am hungry. Give mesomething to eat.'The boy took his last loaf and flask out of his knapsack and laid themon the ground, and they had supper together. 'Well, now I am going tosleep,' observed the bee when the last crumb was gone, 'but as you arenot very big I can make room for you beside me,' and he curled up hiswings, and tucked in his legs, and he and the prince both slept soundlytill morning. Then the bee got up and carefully brushed every scrap ofdust off his velvet coat and buzzed loudly in the boy's ear to wakenhim.'Take a single hair from one of my wings,' said he, 'and if you are indanger just wish yourself a bee and you will become one. One good turndeserves another, so farewell, and thank you for your supper.' Andthe bee departed after the boy had pulled out the hair and wrapped itcarefully in a leaf.'It must feel quite different to be a bee from what it does to be a lionor bear,' thought the boy to himself when he had walked for an hour ortwo. 'I dare say I should get on a great deal faster,' so he pulled outhis hair and wished himself a bee.In a moment the strangest thing happened to him. All his limbs seemedto draw together, and his body to become very short and round. his headgrew quite tiny, and instead of his white skin he was covered with therichest, softest velvet. Better than all, he had two lovely gauze wingswhich carried him the whole day without getting tired.Late in the afternoon the boy fancied he saw a vast heap of stones along way off, and he flew straight towards it. But when he reached thegates he saw that it was really a great town, so he wished himself backin his own shape and entered the city.He found the palace doors wide open and went boldly into a sort ofhall which was full of people, and where men and maids were gossipingtogether. He joined their talk and soon learned from them that the kinghad only one daughter who had such a hatred to men that she would neversuffer one to enter her presence. Her father was in despair, and hadhad pictures painted of the handsomest princes of all the courts in theworld, in the hope that she might fall in love with one of them. but itwas no use. the princess would not even allow the pictures to be broughtinto her room.'It is late,' remarked one of the women at last. 'I must go to mymistress.' And, turning to one of the lackeys, she bade him find a bedfor the youth.'It is not necessary,' answered the prince, 'this bench is good enoughfor me. I am used to nothing better.' And when the hall was empty helay down for a few minutes. But as soon as everything was quiet in thepalace he took out the hair and wished himself a bee, and in this shapehe flew upstairs, past the guards, and through the keyhole into theprincess's chamber. Then he turned himself into a man again.At this dreadful sight the princess, who was broad awake, began toscream loudly. 'A man! a man!' cried she. but when the guards rushed inthere was only a bumble bee buzzing about the room. They looked underthe bed, and behind the curtains, and into the cupboards, then cameto the conclusion that the princess had had a bad dream, and bowedthemselves out. The door had scarcely closed on them than the beedisappeared, and a handsome youth stood in his place.'I knew a man was hidden somewhere,' cried the princess, and screamedmore loudly than before. Her shrieks brought back the guards, but thoughthey looked in all kinds of impossible places no man was to be seen, andso they told the princess.'He was here a moment ago I saw him with my own eyes,' and the guardsdared not contradict her, though they shook their heads and whispered toeach other that the princess had gone mad on this subject, and saw aman in every table and chair. And they made up their minds that let herscream as loudly as she might they would take no notice.Now the princess saw clearly what they were thinking, and that in futureher guards would give her no help, and would perhaps, besides, tell somestories about her to the king, who would shut her up in a lonely towerand prevent her walking in the gardens among her birds and flowers. Sowhen, for the third time, she beheld the prince standing before her, shedid not scream but sat up in bed gazing at him in silent terror.'Do not be afraid,' he said, 'I shall not hurt you'. and he began topraise her gardens, of which he had heard the servants speak, and thebirds and flowers which she loved, till the princess's anger softened,and she answered him with gentle words. Indeed, they soon became sofriendly that she vowed she would marry no one else, and confided tohim that in three days her father would be off to the wars, leaving hissword in her room. If any man could find it and bring it to him he wouldreceive her hand as a reward. At this point a cock crew, and the youthjumped up hastily saying: 'Of course I shall ride with the king tothe war, and if I do not return, take your violin every evening to theseashore and play on it, so that the very sea kobolds who live at thebottom of the ocean may hear it and come to you.'Just as the princess had foretold, in three days the king set out forthe war with a large following, and among them was the young prince, whohad presented himself at court as a young noble in search of adventures.They had left the city many miles behind them, when the king suddenlydiscovered that he had forgotten his sword, and though all hisattendants instantly offered theirs, he declared that he could fightwith none but his own.'The first man who brings it to me from my daughter's room,' cried he,'shall not only have her to wife, but after my death shall reign in mystead.'At this the Red Knight, the young prince, and several more turned theirhorses to ride as fast as the wind back to the palace. But suddenly abetter plan entered the prince's head, and, letting the others pass him,he took his precious parcel from his breast and wished himself a lion.Then on he bounded, uttering such dreadful roars that the horses werefrightened and grew unmanageable, and he easily outstripped them, andsoon reached the gates of the palace. Here he hastily changed himselfinto a bee, and flew straight into the princess's room, where he becamea man again. She showed him where the sword hung concealed behind acurtain, and he took it down, saying as he did so: 'Be sure not toforget what you have promised to do.'The princess made no reply, but smiled sweetly, and slipping a goldenring from her finger she broke it in two and held half out silently tothe prince, while the other half she put in her own pocket. He kissedit, and ran down the stairs bearing the sword with him. Some way off hemet the Red Knight and the rest, and the Red Knight at first tried totake the sword from him by force. But as the youth proved too strong forhim, he gave it up, and resolved to wait for a better opportunity.This soon came, for the day was hot and the prince was thirsty.Perceiving a little stream that ran into the sea, he turned aside, and,unbuckling the sword, flung himself on the ground for a long drink.Unluckily, the mermaid happened at that moment to be floating on thewater not very far off, and knew he was the boy who had been given herbefore he was born. So she floated gently in to where he was lying, sheseized him by the arm, and the waves closed over them both. Hardly hadthey disappeared, when the Red Knight stole cautiously up, and couldhardly believe his eyes when he saw the king's sword on the bank. Hewondered what had become of the youth, who an hour before had guardedhis treasure so fiercely. but, after all, that was no affair of his! So,fastening the sword to his belt, he carried it to the king.The war was soon over, and the king returned to his people, who welcomedhim with shouts of joy. But when the princess from her window saw thather betrothed was not among the attendants riding behind her father, herheart sank, for she knew that some evil must have befallen him, andshe feared the Red Knight. She had long ago learned how clever and howwicked he was, and something whispered to her that it was he who wouldgain the credit of having carried back the sword, and would claim her ashis bride, though he had never even entered her chamber. And she coulddo nothing. for although the king loved her, he never let her stand inthe way of his plans.The poor princess was only too right, and everything came to passexactly as she had foreseen it. The king told her that the Red Knighthad won her fairly, and that the wedding would take place next day, andthere would be a great feast after it.In those days feasts were much longer and more splendid than they arenow. and it was growing dark when the princess, tired out with all shehad gone through, stole up to her own room for a little quiet. But themoon was shining so brightly over the sea that it seemed to draw hertowards it, and taking her violin under her arm, she crept down to theshore.'Listen! listen! said the mermaid to the prince, who was lying stretchedon a bed of seaweeds at the bottom of the sea. 'Listen! that is your oldlove playing, for mermaids know everything that happens upon earth.''I hear nothing,' answered the youth, who did not look happy. 'Take meup higher, where the sounds can reach me.'So the mermaid took him on her shoulders and bore him up midway to thesurface. 'Can you hear now?' she asked.'No,' answered the prince, 'I hear nothing but the water rushing. I mustgo higher still.'Then the mermaid carried him to the very top. 'You must surely be ableto hear now?' said she.'Nothing but the water,' repeated the youth. So she took him right tothe land.'At any rate you can hear now?' she said again.'The water is still rushing in my ears,' answered he. 'but wait alittle, that will soon pass off.' And as he spoke he put his hand intohis breast, and seizing the hair wished himself a bee, and flew straightinto the pocket of the princess. The mermaid looked in vain for him, andcoated all night upon the sea. but he never came back, and never moredid he gladden her eyes. But the princess felt that something strangewas about her, though she knew not what, and returned quickly to thepalace, where the young man at once resumed his own shape. Oh, what joyfilled her heart at the sight of him! But there was no time to be lost,and she led him right into the hall, where the king and his nobles werestill sitting at the feast. 'Here is a man who boasts that he can dowonderful tricks,' said she, 'better even than the Red Knight's! Thatcannot be true, of course, but it might be well to give this impostor alesson. He pretends, for instance, that he can turn himself into alion. but that I do not believe. I know that you have studied the artof magic,' she went on, turning to the Red Knight, 'so suppose you justshow him how it is done, and bring shame upon him.'Now the Red Knight had never opened a book of magic in his life. but hewas accustomed to think that he could do everything better than otherpeople without any teaching at all. So he turned and twisted himselfabout, and bellowed and made faces. but he did not become a lion for allthat.'Well, perhaps it is very difficult to change into a lion. Make yourselfa bear,' said the princess. But the Red Knight found it no easier tobecome a bear than a lion.'Try a bee,' suggested she. 'I have always read that anyone who can domagic at all can do that.' And the old knight buzzed and hummed, but heremained a man and not a bee.'Now it is your turn,' said the princess to the youth. 'Let us see ifyou can change yourself into a lion.' And in a moment such a fiercecreature stood before them, that all the guests rushed out of the hall,treading each other underfoot in their fright. The lion sprang at theRed Knight, and would have torn him in pieces had not the princess heldhim back, and bidden him to change himself into a man again. And in asecond a man took the place of the lion.'Now become a bear,' said she. and a bear advanced panting andstretching out his arms to the Red Knight, who shrank behind theprincess.By this time some of the guests had regained their courage, and returnedas far as the door, thinking that if it was safe for the princessperhaps it was safe for them. The king, who was braver than they, andfelt it needful to set them a good example besides, had never lefthis seat, and when at a new command of the princess the bear once moreturned into a man, he was silent from astonishment, and a suspicion ofthe truth began to dawn on him. 'Was it he who fetched the sword?' askedthe king.'Yes, it was,' answered the princess. and she told him the whole story,and how she had broken her gold ring and given him half of it. And theprince took out his half of the ring, and the princess took out hers,and they fitted exactly. Next day the Red Knight was hanged, as herichly deserved, and there was a new marriage feast for the prince andprincess.