In a little village in the country of Japan there lived long, long ago aman and his wife. For many years they were happy and prosperous, but badtimes came, and at last nothing was left them but their daughter, whowas as beautiful as the morning. The neighbours were very kind, andwould have done anything they could to help their poor friends, but theold couple felt that since everything had changed they would rather goelsewhere, so one day they set off to bury themselves in the country,taking their daughter with them.Now the mother and daughter had plenty to do in keeping the house cleanand looking after the garden, but the man would sit for hours togethergazing straight in front of him, and thinking of the riches that oncewere his. Each day he grew more and more wretched, till at length hetook to his bed and never got up again.His wife and daughter wept bitterly for his loss, and it was many monthsbefore they could take pleasure in anything. Then one morning the mothersuddenly looked at the girl, and found that she had grown still morelovely than before. Once her heart would have been glad at the sight,but now that they two were alone in the world she feared some harm mightcome of it. So, like a good mother, she tried to teach her daughter allshe knew, and to bring her up to be always busy, so that she would neverhave time to think about herself. And the girl was a good girl, andlistened to all her mother's lessons, and so the years passed away.At last one wet spring the mother caught cold, and though in thebeginning she did not pay much attention to it, she gradually grew moreand more ill, and knew that she had not long to live. Then she calledher daughter and told her that very soon she would be alone in theworld. that she must take care of herself, as there would be no one totake care of her. And because it was more difficult for beautiful womento pass unheeded than for others, she bade her fetch a wooden helmet outof the next room, and put it on her head, and pull it low down over herbrows, so that nearly the whole of her face should lie in its shadow.The girl did as she was bid, and her beauty was so hidden beneath thewooden cap, which covered up all her hair, that she might have gonethrough any crowd, and no one would have looked twice at her. And whenshe saw this the heart of the mother was at rest, and she lay back inher bed and died.The girl wept for many days, but by and by she felt that, being alone inthe world, she must go and get work, for she had only herself to dependupon. There was none to be got by staying where she was, so she made herclothes into a bundle, and walked over the hills till she reached thehouse of the man who owned the fields in that part of the country. Andshe took service with him and laboured for him early and late, and everynight when she went to bed she was at peace, for she had not forgottenone thing that she had promised her mother. and, however hot the sunmight be, she always kept the wooden helmet on her head, and the peoplegave her the nickname of Hatschihime.In spite, however, of all her care the fame of her beauty spread abroad:many of the impudent young men that are always to be found in the worldstole softly up behind her while she was at work, and tried to lift offthe wooden helmet. But the girl would have nothing to say to them, andonly bade them be off. then they began to talk to her, but she neveranswered them, and went on with what she was doing, though her wageswere low and food not very plentiful. Still she could manage to live,and that was enough.One day her master happened to pass through the field where she wasworking, and was struck by her industry and stopped to watch her. Aftera while he put one or two questions to her, and then led her into hishouse, and told her that henceforward her only duty should be to tendhis sick wife. From this time the girl felt as if all her troubles wereended, but the worst of them was yet to come.Not very long after Hatschihime had become maid to the sick woman, theeldest son of the house returned home from Kioto, where he had beenstudying all sorts of things. He was tired of the splendours of the townand its pleasures, and was glad enough to be back in the green country,among the peach blossoms and sweet flowers. Strolling about in the earlymorning, he caught sight of the girl with the odd wooden helmet on herhead, and immediately he went to his mother to ask who she was, andwhere she came from, and why she wore that strange thing over her face.His mother answered that it was a whim, and nobody could persuade herto lay it aside. whereat the young man laughed, but kept his thoughts tohimself.One hot day, however, he happened to be going towards home when hecaught sight of his mother's waiting maid kneeling by a little streamthat flowed through the garden, splashing some water over her face.The helmet was pushed on one side, and as the youth stood watchingfrom behind a tree he had a glimpse of the girl's great beauty. and hedetermined that no one else should be his wife. But when he told hisfamily of his resolve to marry her they were very angry, and made upall sorts of wicked stories about her. However, they might have sparedthemselves the trouble, as he knew it was only idle talk. 'I have merelyto remain firm,' thought he, 'and they will have to give in.' It wassuch a good match for the girl that it never occurred to anyone that shewould refuse the young man, but so it was. It would not be right, shefelt, to make a quarrel in the house, and though in secret she weptbitterly, for a long while, nothing would make her change her mind. Atlength one night her mother appeared to her in a dream, and bade hermarry the young man. So the next time he asked her as he did nearlyevery day to his surprise and joy she consented. The parents then sawthey had better make the best of a bad business, and set aboutmaking the grand preparations suitable to the occasion. Of course theneighbours said a great many ill natured things about the wooden helmet,but the bridegroom was too happy to care, and only laughed at them.When everything was ready for the feast, and the bride was dressed inthe most beautiful embroidered dress to be found in Japan, the maidstook hold of the helmet to lift it off her head, so that they might doher hair in the latest fashion. But the helmet would not come, andthe harder they pulled, the faster it seemed to be, till the poor girlyelled with pain. Hearing her cries the bridegroom ran in and soothedher, and declared that she should be married in the helmet, as she couldnot be married without. Then the ceremonies began, and the bridal pairsat together, and the cup of wine was brought them, out of which theyhad to drink. And when they had drunk it all, and the cup was empty, awonderful thing happened. The helmet suddenly burst with a loud noise,and fell in pieces on the ground. and as they all turned to look theyfound the floor covered with precious stones which had fallen out of it.But the guests were less astonished at the brilliancy of the diamondsthan at the beauty of the bride, which was beyond anything they had everseen or heard of. The night was passed in singing and dancing, and thenthe bride and bridegroom went to their own house, where they lived tillthey died, and had many children, who were famous throughout Japan fortheir goodness and beauty.(Japanische Marchen.)