Once upon a time a fox lay peeping out of his hole, watching the roadthat ran by at a little distance, and hoping to see something that mightamuse him, for he was feeling very dull and rather cross. For a long whilehe watched in vain. everything seemed asleep, and not even a bird stirredoverhead. The fox grew crosser than ever, and he was just turning away indisgust from his place when he heard the sound of feet coming over thesnow.He crouched eagerly down at the edge of the road and said to himself,"I wonder what would happen if I were to pretend to be dead! This is a mandriving a reindeer sledge. I know the tinkling of the harness. And at anyrate I shall have an adventure, and that is always something!"So he stretched himself out by the side of the road, carefully choosinga spot where the driver could not help seeing him, yet where the reindeerwould not tread on him. and all fell out just as he had expected. Thesledge driver pulled up sharply, as his eyes lighted on the beautifulanimal lying stiffly beside him, and jumping out he threw the fox into thebottom of the sledge, where the goods he was carrying were bound tightlytogether by ropes. The fox did not move a muscle though his bones weresore from the fall, and the driver got back to his seat again and drove onmerrily.But before they had gone very far, the fox, who was near the edge,contrived to slip over, and when the Laplander saw him stretched out onthe snow he pulled up his reindeer and put the fox into one of the othersledges that was fastened behind, for it was market day at the nearesttown, and the man had much to sell.They drove on a little further, when some noise in the forest made theman turn his head, just in time to see the fox fall with a heavy thumponto the frozen snow."That beast is bewitched!" he said to himself, and then he threw thefox into the last sledge of all, which had a cargo of fishes. This wasexactly what the cunning creature wanted, and he wriggled gently to thefront and bit the cord which tied the sledge to the one before it so thatit remained standing in the middle of the road.Now there were so many sledges that the Lapp did not notice for a longwhile that one was missing. Indeed, he would have entered the town withoutknowing if snow had not suddenly begun to fall. Then he got down to securemore firmly the cloths that kept his goods dry, and going to the end ofthe long row, discovered that the sledge containing the fish and the foxwas missing. He quickly unharnessed one of his reindeer and rode backalong the way he had come, to find the sledge standing safe in the middleof the road. but as the fox had bitten off the cord close to the noosethere was no means of moving it away.The fox meanwhile was enjoying himself mightily. As soon as he hadloosened the sledge, he had taken his favorite fish from among the pilesneatly arranged for sale, and had trotted off to the forest with it in hismouth.