Between the Baltic and the North Sea there lies an old swan'snest, wherein swans are born and have been born that shall never die.In olden times a flock of swans flew over the Alps to the greenplains around Milan, where it was delightful to dwell. This flightof swans men called the Lombards.Another flock, with shining plumage and honest eyes, soaredsouthward to Byzantium. the swans established themselves there closeby the Emperor's throne, and spread their wings over him as shields toprotect him. They received the name of Varangians.On the coast of France there sounded a cry of fear, for theblood stained swans that came from the North with fire under theirwings. and the people prayed, "Heaven deliver us from the wildNorthmen."On the fresh sward of England stood the Danish swan by the openseashore, with the crown of three kingdoms on his head. and hestretched out his golden sceptre over the land. The heathens on thePomerian coast bent the knee, and the Danish swans came with thebanner of the Cross and with the drawn sword."That was in the very old times," you say.In later days two mighty swans have been seen to fly from thenest. A light shone far through the air, far over the lands of theearth. the swan, with the strong beating of his wings, scattered thetwilight mists, and the starry sky was seen, and it was as if itcame nearer to the earth. That was the swan Tycho Brahe."Yes, then," you say. "but in our own days?"We have seen swan after swan soar by in glorious flight. One lethis pinions glide over the strings of the golden harp, and itresounded through the North. Norway's mountains seemed to risehigher in the sunlight of former days. there was a rustling amongthe pine trees and the birches. the gods of the North, the heroes, andthe noble women, showed themselves in the dark forest depths.We have seen a swan beat with his wings upon the marble crag, sothat it burst, and the forms of beauty imprisoned in the stone steppedout to the sunny day, and men in the lands round about lifted up theirheads to behold these mighty forms.We have seen a third swan spinning the thread of thought that isfastened from country to country round the world, so that the word mayfly with lightning speed from land to land.And our Lord loves the old swan's nest between the Baltic andthe North Sea. And when the mighty birds come soaring through theair to destroy it, even the callow young stand round in a circle onthe margin of the nest, and though their breasts may be struck so thattheir blood flows, they bear it, and strike with their wings and theirclaws.Centuries will pass by, swans will fly forth from the nest, menwill see them and hear them in the world, before it shall be said inspirit and in truth, "This is the last swan the last song from theswan's nest."