There was upon a time a good man who had two children: a girl by afirstwife, and a boy by the second. The girl was as white as milk, and her lipswerelike cherries. Her hair was like golden silk, and it hung to the ground.Herbrother loved her dearly, but her wicked stepmother hated her."Child," said the stepmother one day, "go to the grocer's shop and buyme apound of candles."She gave her the money, and the little girl went, bought the candles,andstarted on her return. There was a stile to cross. She put down thecandleswhile she got over the stile. Up came a dog and ran off with thecandles.She went back to the grocer's, and she got a second bunch. She came tothestile, set down the candles, and proceeded to climb over. Up came the dogandran off with the candles.She went again to the grocer's, and she got a third bunch, and just thesameevent happened. Then she came to her stepmother crying, for she had spentallthe money and had lost three bunches of candles.The stepmother was angry, but she pretended not to mind the loss. Shesaidto the child, "Come, lay your head on my lap that I may comb yourhair."So the little one laid her head in the woman's lap, who proceeded tocombthe yellow silken hair. And when she combed, the hair fell over her kneesandrolled right down to the ground.Then the stepmother hated her more for the beauty of her hair, so shesaidto her, "I cannot part your hair on my knee. Fetch a billet of wood."So she fetched it.Then said the stepmother, "I cannot part your hair with a comb. Fetchme anax."So she fetched it."Now," said the wicked woman, "Lay your head down on the billet while Ipartyour hair."Well! She laid down her little golden head without fear. and whist!downcame the ax, and it was off. So the mother wiped the ax and laughed.Then she took the heart and liver of the little girl, and she stewedthemand brought them into the house for supper. The husband tasted them andshookhis head. He said they tasted very strangely. She gave some to the littleboy,but he would not eat. She tried to force him, but he refused, and ran outintothe garden, and took up his little sister, and put her in a box, andburied thebox under a rose tree. and every day he went to the tree and wept, tillhistears ran down on the box.One day the rose tree flowered. It was spring, and there among theflowerswas a white bird. and it sang, and sang, and sang like an angel out ofheaven.Away it flew, and it went to a cobbler's shop, and perched itself on atreehard by. and thus it sang:My wicked mother slew me,My dear father ate me,My little brother whom I loveSits below, and I sing aboveStick, stock, stone dead."Sing again that beautiful song," asked the shoemaker."If you will first give me those little red shoes you are making."The cobbler gave the shoes, and the bird sang the song, then flew to atreein front of a watchmaker's and sang:My wicked mother slew me,My dear father ate me,My little brother whom I loveSits below, and I sing aboveStick, stock, stone dead."Oh, the beautiful song! Sing it again, sweet bird," asked thewatchmaker."If you will give me first that gold watch and chain in your hand."The jeweler gave the watch and chain. The bird took it in one foot, theshoes in the other, and flew away, after having repeated the song, towherethree millers were picking a millstone. The bird perched on a tree andsang:My wicked mother slew me,My dear father ate me,My little brother whom I loveSits below, and I sing aboveStick!Then one of the men put down his tool and looked up from hiswork,Stock!Then the second miller's man laid aside his tool and lookedup,Stone!Then the third miller's man laid down his tool and lookedup,Dead!Then all three cried out with one voice, "Oh, what a beautifulsong!Sing it sweet bird, again.""If you will put the millstone round my neck," said the bird.The men complied with the bird's request, and away to the tree it flewwiththe millstone round his neck, the red shoes in the grasp of one foot, andthegold watch and chain in the grasp of the other. He sang the song and thenflewhome.It rattled the millstone against the eaves of the house, and thestepmothersaid, "It thunders."Then the little boy ran out to see the thunder, and down dropped theredshoes at his feet.It rattled the millstone against the eaves of the house once more, andthestepmother said again, "It thunders."Then the father ran out, and down fell the chain about his neck.In ran father and son, laughing and saying, "See, the thunder hasbrought usthese fine things!"Then the bird rattled the millstone against the eaves of the house athirdtime, and the stepmother said, "It thunders again. Perhaps the thunder hasbrought something for me," and she ran out. But the moment she steppedoutsidethe door, down fell the millstone on her head. And so she died.