A girl belonging to a village of four underground lodges near Lyttonrefused all suitors who had come from Spences Bridge, Nicola, Kamloops,and Lillooet, although they brought as marriage gifts robes,dentalia , and other valuables. Her parents and the chief of thevillage were angry with her for refusing so many good suitors. Thereforeshe became sad, and would have committed suicide had not her brotherstalked kindly with her.One morning, when she had gone to the river to bathe and to draw waterfor the house, she thought, "I wish a man from far away would come andtake me!"Crow Man, who lived at the mouth of the river, heard her. He said, "Apretty girl far away wants a husband. I wish I could go to her!"At once a man appeared to him and said, "I will help you, if you willdo as I direct you. You must shut your eyes and pray to me, and I shallgrant your desire. Now begin!"Crow Man knelt down and prayed that he might be enabled to go to thegirl. His eyes closed while he was praying. Then his helper told him toopen his eyes and look at himself. He saw that he had been transformedinto a crow, with wings and with black feathers all over his body. He wasafraid, and remained silent.His helper told him that he would not be a crow always, but only forthe journey to the girl. He said, "Now, fly up the river! And early in themorning you will see a girl bathing near four underground lodges. She isthe wife that you desire!"It was springtime, when crows come up the river. Three mornings thegirl had repeated her supplication for a husband. Early the fourth morningshe went to the accustomed place, put down her bark water baskets, tookoff her clothes, and went to bathe. She had just made her supplicationwhen a crow came up the river and passed close to her head.She called him nasty names and said, "Why do you fly so close to myhead, you black ugly bird? You will blind me with the dirt of your feet."It was Crow Man, who was acting under the instructions of his helper.He flew past out of sight, alighted on the ground, shut his eyes, andprayed. When he opened his eyes, he was a man again. He walked back towhere the girl was washing herself in the water, and sat down on herclothes. Presently she saw him, and asked him to leave. She pleaded withhim to go away, but he paid no heed.When she had asked him four times, he replied, "If you will become mywife, I will release your clothes."She assented, saying, "You must be my husband, for you have seen mynaked body."Crow Man shut his eyes and prayed. When he opened them again, a largebeaverskin robe was there, and a dugout cedar canoe. He gave the robe tohis wife. They embarked in the canoe and went downstream.As the girl did not return, the people looked for her. They found herclothes and the water baskets, and thought that she had drowned herself.She lived in her husband's country for a while, and bore a son to him.When the boy was growing up, he wished to see his grandparents. Every dayhe asked for them. Finally his parents determined to take him to see them.They went up the river in a canoe loaded with presents of many kinds,and eventually reached Lytton. They moored their canoe at the wateringplace. The weather was warm, and the woman's parents were living in a mattent. Her younger sister came down to draw water and discovered them. Shewent back with the news. and the parents cleaned their house, and madeready to receive their son in law. He gave his father in law all thepresents, and the people danced to welcome them. He made up his mind tolive there and became an adopted member of the tribe.