Once upon a time when Brahmadatta was reigning in Benares, theBodhisatta was born a Brahmin, and growing up was married to a bride ofhis own rank, who bore him three daughters named Nanda, Nanda vati, andSundari nanda. The Bodhisatta dying, they were taken in by neighbors andfriends, whilst he was born again into the world as a golden mallardendowed with consciousness of its former existences.Growing up, the bird viewed its own magnificent size and goldenplumage, and remembered that previously it had been a human being.Discovering that his wife and daughters were living on the charity ofothers, the mallard bethought him of his plumage like hammered and beatengold and how by giving them a golden feather at a time he could enable hiswife and daughters to live in comfort. So away he flew to where they dweltand alighted on the top of the central beam of the roof. Seeing theBodhisatta, the wife and girls asked where he had come from. and he toldthem that he was their father who had died and been born a golden mallard,and that he had come to visit them and put an end to their miserablenecessity of working for hire."You shall have my feathers," said he, "one by one, and they will sellfor enough to keep you all in ease and comfort."So saying, he gave them one of his feathers and departed. And from timeto time he returned to give them another feather, and with the proceeds oftheir sale these Brahmin women grew prosperous and quite well to do.But one day the mother said to her daughters, "There's no trustinganimals, my children. Who's to say your father might not go away one ofthese days and never come back again? Let us use our time and pluck himclean next time he comes, so as to make sure of all his feathers."Thinking this would pain him, the daughters refused.The mother in her greed called the golden mallard to her one day whenhe came, and then took him with both hands and plucked him.Now the Bodhisatta's feathers had this property that if they wereplucked out against his wish, they ceased to be golden and became like acrane's feathers. And now the poor bird, though he stretched his wings,could not fly, and the woman flung him into a barrel and gave him foodthere. As time went on his feathers grew again (though they were plainwhite ones now), and he flew away to his own abode and never came backagain.