There lived in the adjoining parish of Rosemarkie, when the fame of themill was at its highest, a wild unsettled fellow, named M'Kechan. Had hebeen born among the aristocracy of the country, he might have passed fornothing worse than a young man of spirit. and after sowing his wild oatsamong gentlemen of the turf and of the fancy, he would naturally havesettled down into the shrewd political landlord, who, if no builder ofchurches himself, would he willing enough to exert the privilege of givingclergymen, exclusively of his own choosing, to such churches as had beenbuilt already.As a poor man, however, and the son of a poor man, Tam M'Kechan seemed tobid pretty fair for the gallows. nor could he plead ignorance that suchwas the general opinion. He had been told so when a herd boy. for it wasno unusual matter for his master, a farmer of the parish, to find himstealing peas in the corner of one field, when the whole of his chargewere ravaging the crops of another. He had been told so too when a sailor,ere he had broken his indentures and ran away, when once caught among thecasks and packages in the hold, ascertaining where the Geneva and thesweetmeats were stowed. And now that be was a drover and a horse jockey,people, though they no longer told him so, for Tam had become dangerous,seemed as certain of the fact as ever.With all his roguery, however, when not much in liquor he was by no meansa very disagreeable companion. few could match him at a song or thebagpipe, and though rather noisy in his cups and somewhat quarrelsome, hiscompany was a good deal courted by the bolder spirits of the parish, andamong the rest by the miller. Tam had heard of the piebald horses andtheir ghostly attendants (fairies that were believed to frequent thearea). but without more knowledge than fell to the share of his neighbors,he was a much greater skeptic, and after rallying the miller on hisingenuity and the prettiness of his fancy, he volunteered to spend a nightat the mill, with no other companion than his pipes.Preparatory to the trial the miller invited one of his neighbors, theyoung farmer of Eathie, that they might pass the early part of the eveningwith Tam. but when, after an hour's hard drinking, they rose to leave thecottage, the farmer, a kindhearted lad, who was besides warmly attached tothe jockey's only sister, would fain have dissuaded him from theundertaking."I've been thinking, Tam," he said, "that flyte wi' the miller as ye may,ye would better let the good people alone. or stay, sin' ye are saebent on playing the fule, I'll e'en play it wi' you. rax me my plaid.we'll trim up the fire in the killogie thegether. an' you will keep me inmusic.""Na, Jock Hossack," said Tam, "I maun keep my good music for the goodpeople . it's rather late to flinch now. but come to the burn edge wi'me the night, an" to the mill as early in the morning as ye may. an' harkye, tak a double caulker (dram) wi' you."He wrapt himself up closely in his plaid, took the pipes under his arm,and, accompanied by Jock and the miller, set out for the dell, into which,however, he insisted on descending alone. Before leaving the bank, hiscompanions could see that he had succeeded in lighting up a fire in themill, which gleamed through every bore and opening, and could hear theshrill notes of a pibroch (a bagpipe tune) mingling with the dash of thecascade.The sun had risen high enough to look aslant into the dell, when Jock andthe miller descended to the mill, and found the door lying wide open. Allwas silent within. the fire had sunk into a heap of white ashes, thoughthere was a bundle of fagots untouched beside it, and the stool on whichTam had been seated lay overturned in front. But there were no traces ofTam, except that the miller picked up, beside the stool, a littleflat edged instrument, used by the unfortunate jockey in concealing theage of his horses by effacing the marks on their teeth, and that JockHossack found one of the drones of his pipes among the extinguishedembers.Weeks passed away, and there was still nothing heard of Tam. and aseveryone seemed to think it would be in vain to seek for him any where butin the place where he had been lost, Jock Hossack, whose marriage wasvexatiously delayed in consequence of his strange disappearance, came tothe resolution of unraveling the mystery, if possible, by passing a nightin the mill.For the first few hours he found the evening wear heavily away. the onlysounds that reached him were the loud monotonous dashings of the cascade,and the duller rush of the stream as it swept past the mill wheel. Hepiled up fuel on the fire till the flames rose halfway to the ceiling, andevery beam and rafter stood out from the smoke as clearly as by day. andthen yawning, as he thought how companionable a thing a good fire is, helonged for something to amuse him.A sudden cry rose from the further gable, accompanied by a flutter ofwings, and one of the miller's ducks, a fine plump bird, came swoopingdown among the live embers."Poor bird!" said Jock, "From the fox to the fire. I had almost forgottenthat I wanted my supper."He dashed the duck against the floor   plucked and emboweled it   andthen, suspending the carcass by a string before the fire, began to twirlit round and round to the heat. The strong odoriferous fume had begun tofill the apartment, and the drippings to hiss and sputter among theembers, when a burst of music rose so suddenly from the green without,that Jock, who had been so engaged with the thoughts of his supper asalmost to have forgotten the fames, started half a yard from his seat."That maun be Tam's pipes," he said . and giving a twirl to the duck herose to a window.The moon, only a few days in her wane, was looking aslant into the dell,lighting the huge melancholy cliffs with their birches and hazels, and thewhite flickering descent of the cascade. The little level green on themargin of the stream lay more in the shade. but Jock could see that it wascrowded with figures marvelously diminutive in stature, and that nearlyone half of them were engaged in dancing. It was enough for him, however,that the music was none of Tam's making. and, leaving the little creaturesto gambol undisturbed, he returned to the fire.He had hardly resumed his seat when a low tap was heard at the door, andshortly after a second and a third. Jock sedulously turned his duck to theheat, and sat still. He had no wish for visitors, and determined onadmitting none. The door, however, though firmly bolted, fell open ofitself, and there entered one of the strangest looking creatures he hadever seen. The figure was that of a man, hut it was little more than threefeet in height. and though the face was as sallow and wrinkled as that ofa person of eighty, the eye had the roguish sparkle and the limbs all thejuvenile activity of fourteen."What's your name, man?" said the little thing coming up to Jock, andpeering into his face till its wild elfish features were within a fewinches of his. "What's your name?""Mysel' an Mysel'"   i. e., myself   said Jock, with a policy similar tothat resorted to by Ulysses in the cave of the giant."Ah, Mysel' an Mysel'!" rejoined the creature. "Mysel an Mysel'! andwhat's that you have got there, Mysel' an Mysel'?" touching the duck as itspoke with the tip of its finger, and then transferring part of thescalding gravy to the cheek of Jock.Rather an unwarrantable liberty, thought the poor fellow, for so slight anacquaintance. the creature reiterated the question, and dabbed Jock'sother cheek with a larger and still more scalding application of thegravy."What is it?" he exclaimed, losing in his anger all thought ofconsequences, and dashing the bird, with the full swing of his arm,against the face of his visitor, "It's that!"The little creature, blinded and miserably burnt, screamed out in pain andterror till the roof rung again. the music ceased in a moment, and JockHossack had barely time to cover the fire with a fresh heap of fuel, whichfor a few seconds reduced the apartment to total darkness, when the crowdwithout came swarming like wasps to every door and window of the mill."Who did it, Sanachy   who did it?" was the query of a thousand voices atonce."Oh, 'twas Mysel' an Mysel'," said the creature. "'twas Mysel' an Mysel'.""And if it was yoursel' and yoursel', who, poor Sanachy," replied hiscompanions, "can help that?"They still, however, clustered round the mill. the flames began to rise inlong pointed columns through the smoke, and Jock Hossack had just givenhimself up for lost, when a cock crew outside the building, and after asudden breeze had moaned for a few seconds among the cliffs and thebushes, and then stink in the lower recesses of the dell, he found himselfalone.He was married shortly after to the sister of the lost jockey, and neveragain saw the good people , or, what he regretted nearly as little,his unfortunate brother in law. There were some, however, who affirmed,that the latter had returned from fairyland seven years after hismysterious disappearance, and supported the assertion by the fact, thatthere was one Thomas M'Kechan who suffered at Perth for sheep stealing afew months after the expiry of the seventh year.