In the year 1284 a mysterious man appeared in Hameln. He was wearing acoat of many colored, bright cloth, for which reason he was called thePied Piper. He claimed to be a ratcatcher, and he promised that for acertain sum he would rid the city of all mice and rats. The citizensstruck a deal, promising him a certain price. The ratcatcher then took asmall fife from his pocket and began to blow on it. Rats and miceimmediately came from every house and gathered around him. When he thoughtthat he had them all he led them to the River Weser where he pulled up hisclothes and walked into the water. The animals all followed him, fell in,and drowned.Now that the citizens had been freed of their plague, they regrettedhaving promised so much money, and, using all kinds of excuses, theyrefused to pay him. Finally he went away, bitter and angry. He returned onJune 26, Saint John's and Saint Paul's Day, earlyin the morning at seven o'clock (others say it was at noon), now dressedin a hunter's costume, with a dreadful look on his face and wearing astrange red hat. He sounded his fife in the streets, but this time itwasn't rats and mice that came to him, but rather children: a great numberof boys and girls from their fourth year on. Among them was the mayor'sgrown daughter. The swarm followed him, and he led them into a mountain,where he disappeared with them.All this was seen by a babysitter who, carrying a child in her arms,had followed them from a distance, but had then turned around and carriedthe news back to the town. The anxious parents ran in droves to the towngates seeking their children. The mothers cried out and sobbed pitifully.Within the hour messengers were sent everywhere by water and by landinquiring if the children   or any of them   had been seen, but it wasall for naught.In total, one hundred thirty were lost. Two, as some say, had laggedbehind and came back. One of them was blind and the other mute. The blindone was not able to point out the place, but was able to tell how they hadfollowed the piper. The mute one was able to point out the place, althoughhe (or she) had heard nothing. One little boy in shirtsleeves had gonealong with the others, but had turned back to fetch his jacket and thusescaped the tragedy, for when he returned, the others had alreadydisappeared into a cave within a hill. This cave is still shown.Until the middle of the eighteenth century, and probably still today,the street through which the children were led out to the town gate wascalled the bunge lose (drumless, soundless, quiet) street, becauseno dancing or music was allowed there. Indeed, when a bridal procession onits way to church crossed this street, the musicians would have to stopplaying. The mountain near Hameln where the children disappeared iscalled Poppenberg. Two stone monuments in the form of crosses have beenerected there, one on the left side and one on the right. Some say thatthe children were led into a cave, and that they came out again inTransylvania.The citizens of Hameln recorded this event in their town register, andthey came to date all their proclamations according to the years and dayssince the loss of their children.According to Seyfried the 22nd rather than the 26th of June was enteredinto the town register.The following lines were inscribed on the town hall:In the year 1284 after the birth of ChristFrom Hameln were led awayOne hundred thirty children, born at this placeLed away by a piper into a mountain.And on the new gate was inscribed:Centum ter denos cum magus ab urbe puellosduxerat ante annos CCLXXII condita porta fuit.(This gate was built 272 years after the magician led the 130 childrenfrom the city.)In the year 1572 the mayor had the story portrayed in the churchwindows. The accompanying inscription has become largely illegible. Inaddition, a coin was minted in memory of the event.