Once upon a time there was an old widow who lived, with her threedaughters, far away from the rest of the world, next to a mountain. Shewas so poor that her only animal was a single hen, which she prized as theapple of her eye. It was always cackling at her heels, and she was alwaysrunning to look after it. One day, all at once, the hen was gone. The oldwoman went out, and walked around and around the cottage, looking andcalling for her hen, but it was gone, and could not be found.So the woman said to her oldest daughter, "You must just go out and seeif you can find our hen, for we must have it back, even if we have tofetch it out of the mountain."The daughter was ready enough to go, so she set off and walked up anddown, and looked and called, but she could not find the hen. Suddenly,just as she was about to give up the hunt, she heard someone calling outfrom a cleft in the rock:Your hen is in the mountain!Your hen is in the mountain!So she went into the cleft to see what it was, but she had barely setfoot inside, when she fell through a trapdoor, deep, deep down, into anunderground cavern. When she got to the bottom she went through manyrooms, each finer than the one before it. but in the innermost room ofall, a large ugly troll came to her and asked, "Will you be mysweetheart?""No! I will not," she said. She wouldn't have him for any price! Allshe wanted was to get above ground again as fast as ever she could, and tofind her lost hen. Then the troll got so angry that he picked her up,twisted her head off, and then threw both the head and body into thecellar.While this was going on, her mother sat at home waiting and waiting,but no daughter came. After she had waited a bit longer, and neither heardnor saw anything of her daughter, she told her middle daughter to go outand look for her sister, and, she added, "Give our hen a call at the sametime."So the second sister had to set off, and the very same thing happenedto her. She was looking and calling, and suddenly she too heard a voicecalling from from the cleft in the rock:Your hen is in the mountain!Your hen is in the mountain!She thought that this was strange, and went to see what it was. She toofell through the trapdoor, deep, deep down, into the cavern. She too wentfrom room to room, and in the innermost one the troll came to her andasked if she would be his sweetheart? No, she would not. All she wantedwas to get above ground again, and hunt for her lost hen. The troll gotangry, and picked her up, twisted her head off, and threw both head andbody into the cellar.Now, when the old woman had sat and waited seven lengths and sevenbreadths for her second daughter, and could neither see nor hear anythingof her, she said to the youngest, "Now, you must go out and look for yoursisters. It was silly to lose the hen, but it would be sillier still tolose both your sisters. Of course, you can give the hen a call at the sametime." You see, the old woman's heart was still set on her hen.Yes, the youngest was ready to go, and she walked up and down, huntingfor her sisters and calling the hen, but she could neither see nor hearanything of them. She too came to the cleft in the rock, and heardsomething say:Your hen is in the mountain!Your hen is in the mountain!She thought that this was strange, so she too went to see what it was,and she too fell through the trapdoor, deep, deep down, into a cavern.When she reached the bottom she went from one room to another, eachgrander than the one before it. but she wasn't at all afraid, and tooktime to look carefully about her. As she was peeping into this and that,she saw the trapdoor into the cellar, and looked down it, and what shouldshe see there but her dead sisters. She barely had time to slam to thetrapdoor before the troll came to her and asked, "Will you be mysweetheart?""With all my heart," answered the girl, for she saw very well how ithad gone with her sisters. When the troll heard that, he brought her thefinest clothes in the world. Indeed, she had only to ask, and she gotwhatever she wanted, because the troll was so glad that someone would behis sweetheart.One day, after she had been there a little while, she was looking verygloomy and downcast, so the troll asked her what was the matter, and whyshe was so sad."Ah!" said the girl, "it's because I can't get home to my mother. Iknow that she has very little to eat and drink, and she has no one withher.""Well!" said the troll, "I can't let you go to see her. but just stuffsome meat and drink into a sack, and I'll carry it to her."With many thanks, she said that she would do that. However, she put alot of gold and silver into the bottom of the sack, then laid a littlefood on top. She told the ogre the sack was ready, but that he must besure not to look into it. He gave his word not to look inside, and setoff. As the troll walked off, she peeped out at him through a chink in thetrapdoor. When he had gone a little way, he said, "This sack is veryheavy. I'll just see what is inside." He was about to untie the the sack,when the girl called out to him, "I can still see you! I can still seeyou!""The devil you can!" said the troll. "you must have mighty sharp eyes!"And the troll did not try to look into it again. When he reached thewidow's cottage, he threw the sack in through the cottage door, saying,"Here you have meat and drink from your daughter. she doesn't want foranything."After the girl had been in the mountain a good bit longer, one day abilly goat fell down the trapdoor."Who sent for you, you long bearded beast!" said the troll, in an awfulrage, and he picked up the goat, twisted his head off, and threw him intothe cellar."Oh!" said the girl, "why did you do that? I might have had the goat toplay with down here.""Well!" said the troll, "you don't need to be so down in the mouthabout it. I can bring the billy goat back to life again."So saying, he took down a flask that was hanging on the wall, put thebilly goat's head on his body again, and smeared it with some ointmentfrom flask, and he was as well and as lively as before."Aha!" said the girl to herself. "that flask is worth something   thatit is."When she had been in the mountain some time longer, on a day when thetroll was away, she took her oldest sister, put her head on her shoulders,smeared her with some of the ointment from the flask, just as she had seenthe troll do with the billy goat, and in an instant her sister came tolife again.The girl stuffed her into a sack, laid a little food over her, and whenthe troll came home, she said to him, "Dear friend! Now do go home to mymother with a morsel of food again. I'm certain that the poor thing isboth hungry and thirsty, and besides that, she's all alone in the world.But you must not look into the sack."He said that he would carry the sack, and that he would not look intoit. But when he had gone a little way, he thought that the sack wasgetting very heavy. and when he had gone a bit further he said to himself,"Come what will, I must see what's inside this sack, for however sharp hereyes may be, she can't see me all this way off."But just as he was about to untie the sack, the girl inside the sackcalled out, "I can still see you! I can still see you!""The devil you can!" said the ogre. "then you must have mighty sharpeyes," for he thought it was the girl inside the mountain who wasspeaking. So he didn't dare so much as to peep into the sack again, butcarried it straight to her mother as fast as he could, and when he got tothe cottage door he threw it in through the door, and cried out, "Here youhave meat and drink from your daughter. she wants for nothing."When the girl had been in the mountain a while longer, she did the verysame thing with her other sister. She put her head on her shoulders,smeared her with ointment from the flask, brought her to life, and put herinto the sack. This time she crammed in also as much gold and silver asthe sack would hold, laying just a little food on top."Dear friend," she said to the troll, "you really must run home to mymother with a little food again. and don't look into the sack."Yes, the troll was eager to do as she wished, and he gave his word toothat he wouldn't look into the sack. but when he had gone a little way hebegan to think that the sack was getting very heavy, and when he had gonea bit further, he could scarce stagger along under it, so he set it down,and was just about to untie the string and look into it, when the girlinside the sack cried out, "I can still see you! I can still see you!""The devil you can," said the troll, "then you must have mighty sharpeyes."Well, he did not dare to try to look into the sack, but hurriedstraight to the girl's mother. When he got to the cottage he threw thesack in through the door, and roared out, "Here you have food from yourdaughter. she wants for nothing!"After the girl had been there a good while longer, on a day when thetroll had decided to go out for the day, the girl pretended to be sick.She moaned and complained. "There's no need for you to come home beforetwelve o'clock tonight," she said, "for I won't be able to have supperready before then. I'm just too sick!"As soon as the troll was out of the house, she stuffed some of herclothes with straw, and stood this straw girl in the corner by thechimney, with a broom in her hand, so that it looked just as though sheherself were standing there. After that she stole off home, and got amarksman to stay in the cottage with her mother.So when the clock struck twelve, or thereabouts, the troll came home,and the first thing he said to the straw girl was, "Give me something toeat."But she did not answer him."Give me something to eat, I say!" called out the troll, "for I amalmost starved."But she did not have a word for him."Give me something to eat!" roared out the ogre the third time. "Ithink you'd better open your ears and hear what I say, or else I'll wakeyou up, I will!"But the girl stood just as still as ever. so he flew into a rage, andgave her such a slap in the face, that the straw flew all about the room.When he saw that he had been tricked, he began to hunt everywhere. When hecame to the cellar, and found both the girl's sisters missing, he soonfigured out what had happened, and ran off to the cottage, saying, "I'llsoon pay her for this!"But when he reached the cottage, the marksman fired off his piece. Thetroll did not dare go into the house, for he thought it was thunder (Thor). So heset off for home again as fast as he could run. but just as he reached thetrapdoor, the sun rose and he exploded.There's a lot of gold and silver down there still, if you only knewwhere the trapdoor is!