This fairy or goblin was seldom seen, but his gambols were heard nightly in the hall of the great house. He overturned everything in the kitchen after the servants had gone to bed, and was, in short, one of the most mischievous sprites you could imagine. One night, however, the kitchen happened to be left in great confusion, and the goblin, who did everything by contraries, set it completely to rights. and the next morning it was in perfect apple pie order. We may be quite sure that, after this occurrence, the kitchen was not again made orderly by the servants.Notwithstanding, however, the service thus nightly rendered by the Cauld Lad, the servants did not like it. They preferred to do their own work without preter natural agency, and accordingly resolved to do their best to drive him from their haunts. The goblin soon understood what was going on, and he was heard in the dead of night to warble the following lines in a melancholy strain:Wae's me! wae's me!The acorn is not yetFallen from the tree,That's to grow the wood,That's to make the cradle,That's to rock the bairn,That's to grow to a man,That's to lay me.He was, however, deceived in this prediction. for one night, being colder than usual, he complained in moving verse of his condition. Accordingly, on the following evening, a cloak and hood were placed for him near the fire. The servants had unconsciously accomplished their deliverance, for present gifts to fairies, and they for ever disappear.On the next morning the following lines were found inscribed on the wall:I've taken your cloak, I've taken your hood.The Cauld Lad of Hilton will do no more good!A great variety of stories in which fairies are fright ened away by presents, are still to be heard in the rural districts of England. Another narrative, by Mr. Longstaffe, relates that on one occasion a woman found her washing and ironing regularly performed for her every night by the fairies. In gratitude to the "good people," she placed green mantles for their acceptance, and the next night the fairies departed, exclaiming:Now the pixies' work is done!We take our clothes, and off we run.Mrs. Bray tells a similar story of a Devonshire pixy, who helped an old woman to spin. One evening she spied the fairy jumping out of her door, and observed that it was very raggedly dressed. so the next day she thought to win the services of the elf further by placing some smart new clothes, as big as those made for a doll, by the side of her wheel. The pixy came, put on the clothes, and clapping its hands with delight, vanished, saying these lines:Pixy fine, pixy gay,Pixy now will run away.