At certain times every year an unearthly beautiful maiden was seen on the seashore not far from a peaceful village inhabited mostly by fishing people. She came in a beautiful little ship which appeared to have been constructed from pure brightly colored pearls. No one knew where she came from or where she went when she disappeared.The good fishing people were very fond of her, especially the children, because at every visit she would scatter a quantity of pearls onto the bank, and then motion to them that they should gather them up. The little ones busied themselves gathering up the pearls, delighted at their glistening colors. Then the fishing people   men and women   brought the pearl queen a something to eat: fish, bread, and good wine. The lovely maiden was friendly toward them all, ate a few bites and drank a little wine.When the beautiful stranger was expected to come ashore, princes and noblemen from foreign lands would often arrive, hoping to see the beautiful maiden, and perhaps to gain her hand in marriage, for it was said far and wide that she possessed earthly wealth equal to her physical beauty. However, they all left disappointed. The noble maiden demanded from each suitor that he fulfill three tasks that she gave him. Until now these tasks had been too difficult. No one had been able to fulfill them, so all the noble suitors had had to depart saddened and ashamed.The maiden's first task was to guess what color her hair was, for she always kept her head fully covered with a thick shawl. No one had guessed correctly, although they had named all the colors: black, red, blond, brown, white, green, gray, and blue.The second task was to put the maiden's necklace around one's own neck. If the glistening peals then turned cloudy it was an evil sign, causing the maiden to weep. Her tears turned to bright pearls and affixed themselves to the necklace. When she put the necklace back around her own neck the pearls again glistened brilliantly and marvelously.The third task was to guess what the maiden wore next to her breast. No one was able to guess. Thus no one gained the maiden's favor, nor her hand in marriage, even if he were the wealthiest prince.She remained a mystery. All attempts failed to discover more about her and her homeland. When her little ship of pearls left shore it quickly disappeared from sight. However, at certain times she appeared again, was as friendly and lovely as before, and scattered pearls on the bank.A little boy was there whom she favored more than all the other children. She would take him into her arms and squeeze him warmly. The boy loved the beautiful, gracious lady as well. However, when he grew older he became shy and bashful, no longer daring to gather the pearls. In any event, he was mostly at sea fishing with his father.The maiden had gone ashore several times without seeing her dear fisher boy. This saddened her, for in her heart she had chosen this handsome youth, hoping that one day he would be able to solve the three tasks, and then follow her to the beautiful Isle of Pearls, her homeland.When she again came ashore without seeing her beloved fisher lad, after casting off from land she resolved to return that same evening and to invisibly approach him. After the golden moon had risen, mirroring itself in the water, the little ship of pearls landed again on the familiar shore. Her beloved was now sound asleep in his little hut. The lovely maiden stepped into his little room and bent silently over the sleeping lad, who had only moss for a mattress.She took off her necklace and hung it around the lad's neck. When the pearls remained as bright and clear as before, great joy streamed through her loving heart! She gently kissed her beloved and left. She returned every evening, each time hanging the pearls around the lad's neck, and they always remained bright and glistening.The lad was also in love with the beautiful pearl queen, but was too shy and modest to openly approach her.One night while she was at the youth's bedside he awoke, but remained still, so she thought that he was asleep. Again she took the string of pearls from her neck, hung it around his neck, then wept warm tears onto his cheeks. Taking the shawl from her head, she used it to wipe away the tears. The youth saw that her hair was golden . Then she pulled aside her breast cloth, and he saw a glistening mirror on her breast that softly and beautifully reflected his own image.Upon leaving she became sad, for she knew that if the string of pearls became cloudy even a single time on her beloved's neck, that she would never again be able to approach him.The time came when the beautiful pearl queen again came ashore near the fishing village. In her customary manner she scattered pearls for the happy children. This time many princes and noblemen had arrived in order to court the wealthy and beautiful princess. The fisher lad was there as well, standing at the rear. He gathered courage and approached the suitors. His turn came at last, after all the others had failed and shamefully stepped aside.He modestly advanced and asked for the three tasks. Glowing with pleasure the maiden gave them to him, then cast a secret and pleading glance toward heaven, praying that her beloved youth would be able to solve them.The handsome fisher lad bowed respectfully before the lovely maiden and said: "Oh, your hair must be golden." In that instant the shawl fell from her head, and her golden locks flowed down.Then the happy maiden hung the string of pearls around the youth's neck, and they remained pure and glistening.The fisher lad spoke again: "And your breast must be a clear, beautiful mirror, noble maiden!"And that instant her breast cloth fell to the ground, revealing the clear mirror on the maiden's breast. The mirror reflected a beautiful, gentle image: that of the youth.A jubilant cheer and joyful music sounded forth from the ship of pearls, and a circle of beautiful women and radiant men came forth from the ship. They led the blessed couple back aboard, and the ship glided away to the magical Isle of Pearls, now the homeland of the lovely bride and the fisher lad. And they never, never returned.