There was once a fine gentleman who possessed among other things aboot jack and a hair brush. but he had also the finest shirt collar inthe world, and of this collar we are about to hear a story. The collarhad become so old that he began to think about getting married. andone day he happened to find himself in the same washing tub as agarter. "Upon my word," said the shirt collar, "I have never seenanything so slim and delicate, so neat and soft before. May Iventure to ask your name?""I shall not tell you," replied the garter."Where do you reside when you are at home?" asked theshirt collar. But the garter was naturally shy, and did not know howto answer such a question."I presume you are a girdle," said the shirt collar, "a sort ofunder girdle. I see that you are useful, as well as ornamental, mylittle lady.""You must not speak to me," said the garter. "I do not think Ihave given you any encouragement to do so.""Oh, when any one is as beautiful as you are," said theshirt collar, "is not that encouragement enough?""Get away. don't come so near me," said the garter, "you appear tome quite like a man.""I am a fine gentleman certainly," said the shirt collar, "Ipossess a boot jack and a hair brush." This was not true, for thesethings belonged to his master. but he was a boaster."Don't come so near me," said the garter. "I am not accustomedto it.""Affectation!" said the shirt collar.Then they were taken out of the wash tub, starched, and hungover a chair in the sunshine, and then laid on the ironing board.And now came the glowing iron. "Mistress widow," said theshirt collar, "little mistress widow, I feel quite warm. I amchanging, I am losing all my creases. You are burning a hole in me.Ugh! I propose to you.""You old rag," said the flat iron, driving proudly over thecollar, for she fancied herself a steam engine, which rolls over therailway and draws carriages. "You old rag!" said she.The edges of the shirt collar were a little frayed, so thescissors were brought to cut them smooth. "Oh!" exclaimed theshirt collar, "what a first rate dancer you would make. you canstretch out your leg so well. I never saw anything so charming. I amsure no human being could do the same.""I should think not," replied the scissors."You ought to be a countess," said the shirt collar. "but all Ipossess consists of a fine gentleman, a boot jack, and a comb. Iwish I had an estate for your sake.""What! is he going to propose to me?" said the scissors, and shebecame so angry that she cut too sharply into the shirt collar, and itwas obliged to be thrown by as useless."I shall be obliged to propose to the hair brush," thought theshirt collar. so he remarked one day, "It is wonderful whatbeautiful hair you have, my little lady. Have you never thought ofbeing engaged?""You might know I should think of it," answered the hair brush. "Iam engaged to the boot jack.""Engaged!" cried the shirt collar, "now there is no one left topropose to." and then he pretended to despise all love making.A long time passed, and the shirt collar was taken in a bag to thepaper mill. Here was a large company of rags, the fine ones lying bythemselves, separated from the coarser, as it ought to be. They hadall many things to relate, especially the shirt collar, who was aterrible boaster. "I have had an immense number of love affairs," saidthe shirt collar, "no one left me any peace. It is true I was a veryfine gentleman. quite stuck up. I had a boot jack and a brush that Inever used. You should have seen me then, when I was turned down. Ishall never forget my first love. she was a girdle, so charming, andfine, and soft, and she threw herself into a washing tub for mysake. There was a widow too, who was warmly in love with me, but Ileft her alone, and she became quite black. The next was afirst rate dancer. she gave me the wound from which I still suffer,she was so passionate. Even my own hair brush was in love with me, andlost all her hair through neglected love. Yes, I have had greatexperience of this kind, but my greatest grief was for the garter thegirdle I meant to say that jumped into the wash tub. I have a greatdeal on my conscience, and it is really time I should be turned intowhite paper."And the shirt collar came to this at last. All the rags weremade into white paper, and the shirt collar became the veryidentical piece of paper which we now see, and on which this storyis printed. It happened as a punishment to him, for having boastedso shockingly of things which were not true. And this is a warningto us, to be careful how we act, for we may some day find ourselves inthe rag bag, to be turned into white paper, on which our whole historymay be written, even its most secret actions. And it would not bepleasant to have to run about the world in the form of a piece ofpaper, telling everything we have done, like the boasting shirtcollar.