A long time ago   I don't exactly remember the day   Truth started, withher bag well filled, on a journey to see the world. On she went over hilland dale, and through village and town, till one day she met Falsehood."Good day, countrywoman," said Truth. "where are you bound for? Where doyou intend going?""I'm going to travel all over the world," said Falsehood."That's right," said Truth. "and as I'm bound in the same direction let'stravel together.""All right," replied Falsehood. "but you know that fellow travelers mustlive in harmony, so let's divide our provisions and finish yours first."Truth handed over her provisions, upon which the two lived till everymorsel was consumed. then it was Falsehood's turn to provide."Let me gouge out one of your eyes," said Falsehood to Truth, "and thenI'll let you have some food."Poor Truth couldn't help herself. for she was very hungry and didn't knowwhat to do. So she had one of her eyes gouged out, and she got some food.Next time she wanted food she had the other eye gouged out, and then bothher arms cut off.After all this Falsehood told her to go away. Truth implored not to beleft thus helpless in the wilds, and asked that she might be taken to thegate of the next town and left there to get her living by begging.Falsehood led her, not to where she wanted to go, but near a pair ofgallows and left her there. Truth was very much surprised that she heardno one pass, and thought that all the folks in that town must be dead. Asshe was thus reasoning with herself and trembling with fear she fellasleep.When she awoke she heard some people talking above her head, and soondiscovered that they were devils.The eldest of them said to the rest, "Tell me what you have heard and whatyou have been doing."One said, "I have today killed a learned physician, who has discovered amedicine with which he cured all crippled, maimed, or blind.""Well, you're a smart fellow!" said the old devil. "What may the medicinebe? ""It consists simply of this," replied the other, "that tonight is Fridaynight, and there will be a new moon. The cripples have to roll about andthe blind to wash their eyes in the dew that has fallen during the night.the cripples will be healed of their infirmities and the blind will see.""That is very good," said the old devil. "And now what have you done, andwhat do you know?" he asked the others."I," said another, "have just finished a little job of mine. I have cutoff the water supply and will thus kill the whole of the population of thecountry town not far from here.""What is your secret?" asked the old devil."It is this," replied he. "I have placed a stone on the spring which issituated at the eastern corner of the town at a depth of three fathoms. Bythis means the spring will be blocked up, and not one drop of water willflow. As for me, I can go everywhere without fear, because no one willever find out my secret, and all will happen just as I planned it."The poor crippled Truth listened attentively to all these things. Severalother devils spoke. but poor Truth either did not understand them or didnot listen to what they said, as it did not concern her. Having finishedall, the devils disappeared as the cock crew announcing the break of day.Truth thought she would try the remedies she had heard, and at nightrolled about on the dewy ground, when to her great relief her arms grewagain. Wishing to be completely cured, she groped about and plucked everyweed she could find, and rubbed the dew into the cavities of her eyes. Asday broke she saw light once more.She then gave hearty thanks to the God of Truth that he had not left her,his faithful follower, to perish. Being hungry she set off in search offood. So she hurried off to the nearest town, not only for food, but alsobecause she remembered what she had heard the devils say about cutting offthe water supply. She hurried on, so as not to be longer than she couldhelp in giving them her aid in their distress. She soon got there, andfound everyone in mourning.Off she went straight to the king, and told him all she knew. He wasdelighted when he was told that the thirst of the people might bequenched. She also told the king how she had been maimed and blinded, andthe king believed all she said.They commenced at once with great energy to dig up the stone that blockedthe spring. The work was soon done . the stone reached, lifted out, andthe spring flowed once more. The king was full of joy and so was the wholetown, and there were great festivities and a general holiday was held. Theking would not allow Truth to leave, but gave her all she needed, andtreated her as his most confidential friend, placing her in a position ofgreat wealth and happiness.In the meantime Falsehood's provisions came to an end, and she was obligedto beg for food. As only very few houses gave her anything she was almoststarving when she met her old travelling companion again. She cried toTruth for a piece of bread."Yes, you can have it," said Truth, "but you must have an eye gouged out."and Falsehood was in such a fix that she had either to submit or starve.Then the other eye was taken out, and after that her arms were cut off, inexchange for dry crusts of bread. Nor could she help it, for no one elsewould give her anything.Having lost her eyes and her arms she asked Truth to lead her under thesame gallows as she had been led to. At night the devils came. and, as theeldest began questioning the others as to what they had been doing andwhat they knew, one of them proposed that search be made, just to seewhether there were any listeners to their conversation, as someone musthave been eavesdropping the other night, else it would never have beenfound out how the springs of the town were plugged up.To this they all agreed, and search was made . and soon they foundFalsehood, whom they instantly tore to pieces, coiled up her bowels intoknots, burnt her, and dispersed her ashes to the winds. But even her dustwas so malignant that it was carried all over the world. and that is thereason that wherever men exist there Falsehood must be.