Now in a certain place there lived a Brahman named Haridatta. He was afarmer, but poor was the return his labour brought him. One day, atthe end of the hot hours, the Brahman, overcome by the heat, lay downunder the shadow of a tree to have a doze. Suddenly he saw a greathooded snake creeping out of an ant hill near at hand. So he thoughtto himself, "Sure this is the guardian deity of the field, and I havenot ever worshipped it. That's why my farming is in vain. I will atonce go and pay my respects to it."When he had made up his mind, he got some milk, poured it into a bowl,and went to the ant hill, and said aloud: "O Guardian of this Field!all this while I did not know that you dwelt here. That is why I havenot yet paid my respects to you. pray forgive me." And he laid themilk down and went to his house. Next morning he came and looked, andhe saw a gold denar in the bowl, and from that time onward every daythe same thing occurred: he gave milk to the serpent and found a golddenar.One day the Brahman had to go to the village, and so he ordered hisson to take the milk to the ant hill. The son brought the milk, putit down, and went back home. Next day he went again and found adenar, so he thought to himself: "This ant hill is surely fullof golden denars. I'll kill the serpent, and take them all formyself." So next day, while he was giving the milk to the serpent, theBrahman's son struck it on the head with a cudgel. But the serpentescaped death by the will of fate, and in a rage bit the Brahman's sonwith its sharp fangs, and he fell down dead at once. His people raisedhim a funeral pyre not far from the field and burnt him to ashes.Two days afterwards his father came back, and when he learnt his son'sfate he grieved and mourned. But after a time, he took the bowl ofmilk, went to the ant hill, and praised the serpent with a loud voice.After a long, long time the serpent appeared, but only with its headout of the opening of the ant hill, and spoke to the Brahman: "'Tisgreed that brings you here, and makes you even forget the loss ofyour son. From this time forward friendship between us is impossible.Your son struck me in youthful ignorance, and I have bitten him todeath. How can I forget the blow with the cudgel? And how can youforget the pain and grief at the loss of your son?" So speaking, itgave the Brahman a costly pearl and disappeared. But before it wentaway it said: "Come back no more." The Brahman took the pearl, andwent back home, cursing the folly of his son.