The fox and the wolf stole a keg of butter from a peasant and hid it ina safe place. However, the hiding place was far from where they lived, andone day when the fox got the urge to have a taste of the butter byhimself, he felt the necessity of borrowing the wolf's boots for the longjourney. The wolf, of course, asked him why he needed the boots."Well," said the fox, "I must travel a great distance to abaptism.""Good," said the wolf, and the fox, wearing the wolf's boots, took offfor the keg.When he returned, the wolf asked him what the child's name was."Beginning" said the fox, and wolf thought to himself, "That is a nicename."A short time later the fox came again and asked to borrow the boots,saying that once again he had to go to a baptism."Good," said the wolf, and once again the fox set forth wearing thewolf's boots.When he returned, the wolf asked him, "What is the child's name?""Middle of the Keg" said the fox, and the wolf thought, "That is aneven nicer name."Some time later the fox came again and said that still another childwas to be baptized. When he brought back the boots, the wolf again askedhim what name the child had been given."Well," said the fox, "this time his name is Bottom of the Keg."When the fox came a fourth time, the wolf grew somewhat impatient andasked if there would be no end to the baptisms."Yes," said the fox. "This is the last time.""If that is so," said the wolf, "then go ahead and put on the boots."The fox went again to the keg, and licked it clean. Then he filled itwith stones, spread a thin layer of butter over them, and went home.The wolf again asked him what the child's name was, and the foxanswered, "Scrape out the Keg."Some time later the fox proposed to the wolf that the two of themshould go to the keg of butter and have a real feast. Arriving there, theybegan quarreling with one another which one should have the first serving.Unable to decide, they drew straws. The wolf was lucky and drew the longerone, so he was to begin first. He started eating vigorously, but, ofcourse, got only a mouthful of stones.You should have seen the wolf and the fox. Each one accused the otherone of eating up the butter."You did it when you were going to the baptisms," said the wolf."No," said the fox. "You did it when you knew that I wasn't athome."But none of this led anywhere. The keg was empty and remained empty, sothey decided to return home without further delay.On their way home they found an old horse in a mire. They wanted totake it with them and asked one another how they might manage.The fox said, "You are the strongest. Tie the horse's tail around yourbody and pull, while I prod the horse with a stick."That happened, and soon the horse was out of the mud, but it then ranoff with the wolf tied to its tail."Claw your paws into the ground!" cried the fox."But I can see neither heaven nor earth!" answered the wolf.Finally the wolf succeeded in breaking loose, and he and the foxcontinued on their way, but without the horse.When they arrived at home the wolf sat down with his back to the fire,for he was wet to the bone. Sitting there, he fell asleep. The fox tooksome butter and spread it under the wolf's tail. Because of the warmth itsoon melted.Then the fox woke up the wolf and shouted, "Now it is clear who lickedout the butter keg."