Once upon a time what happened did happen: and if it had not happened,you would never have heard this story.Well, once upon a time there lived an emperor who had half a world allto himself to rule over, and in this world dwelt an old herd and hiswife and their three daughters, Anna, Stana, and Laptitza.Anna, the eldest, was so beautiful that when she took the sheep topasture they forgot to eat as long as she was walking with them. Stana,the second, was so beautiful that when she was driving the flock thewolves protected the sheep. But Laptitza, the youngest, with a skinas white as the foam on the milk, and with hair as soft as the finestlamb's wool, was as beautiful as both her sisters put together asbeautiful as she alone could be.One summer day, when the rays of the sun were pouring down on the earth,the three sisters went to the wood on the outskirts of the mountain topick strawberries. As they were looking about to find where the largestberries grew they heard the tramp of horses approaching, so loud thatyou would have thought a whole army was riding by. But it was only theemperor going to hunt with his friends and attendants.They were all fine handsome young men, who sat their horses as if theywere part of them, but the finest and handsomest of all was the youngemperor himself.As they drew near the three sisters, and marked their beauty, theychecked their horses and rode slowly by.'Listen, sisters!' said Anna, as they passed on. 'If one of those youngmen should make me his wife, I would bake him a loaf of bread whichshould keep him young and brave for ever.''And if I,' said Stana, 'should be the one chosen, I would weave myhusband a shirt which will keep him unscathed when he fights withdragons. when he goes through water he will never even be wet. or ifthrough fire, it will not scorch him.''And I,' said Laptitza, 'will give the man who chooses me two boys,twins, each with a golden star on his forehead, as bright as those inthe sky.'And though they spoke low the young men heard, and turned their horses'heads.'I take you at your word, and mine shall you be, most lovely ofempresses!' cried the emperor, and swung Laptitza and her strawberrieson the horse before him.'And I will have you,' 'And I you,' exclaimed two of his friends, andthey all rode back to the palace together.The following morning the marriage ceremony took place, and for threedays and three nights there was nothing but feasting over the wholekingdom. And when the rejoicings were over the news was in everybody'smouth that Anna had sent for corn, and had made the loaf of which shehad spoken at the strawberry beds. And then more days and nights passed,and this rumour was succeeded by another one that Stana had procuredsome flax, and had dried it, and combed it, and spun it into linen,and sewed it herself into the shirt of which she had spoken over thestrawberry beds.Now the emperor had a stepmother, and she had a daughter by her firsthusband, who lived with her in the palace. The girl's mother had alwaysbelieved that her daughter would be empress, and not the 'MilkwhiteMaiden,' the child of a mere shepherd. So she hated the girl with allher heart, and only bided her time to do her ill.But she could do nothing as long as the emperor remained with his wifenight and day, and she began to wonder what she could do to get him awayfrom her.At last, when everything else had failed, she managed to make herbrother, who was king of the neighbouring country, declare war againstthe emperor, and besiege some of the frontier towns with a large army.This time her scheme was successful. The young emperor sprang up inwrath the moment he heard the news, and vowed that nothing, not evenhis wife, should hinder his giving them battle. And hastily assemblingwhatever soldiers happened to be at hand he set off at once to meetthe enemy. The other king had not reckoned on the swiftness of hismovements, and was not ready to receive him. The emperor fell on himwhen he was off his guard, and routed his army completely. Then whenvictory was won, and the terms of peace hastily drawn up, he rode homeas fast as his horse would carry him, and reached the palace on thethird day.But early that morning, when the stars were growing pale in the sky, twolittle boys with golden hair and stars on their foreheads were born toLaptitza. And the stepmother, who was watching, took them away, and duga hole in the corner of the palace, under the windows of the emperor,and put them in it, while in their stead she placed two little puppies.The emperor came into the palace, and when they told him the news hewent straight to Laptitza's room. No words were needed. he saw withhis own eyes that Laptitza had not kept the promise she had made at thestrawberry beds, and, though it nearly broke his heart, he must giveorders for her punishment.So he went out sadly and told his guards that the empress was to beburied in the earth up to her neck, so that everyone might know whatwould happen to those who dared to deceive the emperor.Not many days after, the stepmother's wish was fulfilled. The emperortook her daughter to wife, and again the rejoicings lasted for threedays and three nights.Let us now see what happened to the two little boys.The poor little babies had found no rest even in their graves. In theplace where they had been buried there sprang up two beautiful youngaspens, and the stepmother, who hated the sight of the trees, whichreminded her of her crime, gave orders that they should be uprooted. Butthe emperor heard of it, and forbade the trees to be touched, saying,'Let them alone. I like to see them there! They are the finest aspens Ihave ever beheld!'And the aspens grew as no aspens had ever grown before. In each day theyadded a year's growth, and each night they added a year's growth, and atdawn, when the stars faded out of the sky, they grew three years' growthin the twinkling of an eye, and their boughs swept across the palacewindows. And when the wind moved them softly, the emperor would sit andlisten to them all the day long.The stepmother knew what it all meant, and her mind never ceased fromtrying to invent some way of destroying the trees. It was not an easything, but a woman's will can press milk out of a stone, and her cunningwill overcome heroes. What craft will not do soft words may attain, andif these do not succeed there still remains the resource of tears.One morning the empress sat on the edge of her husband's bed, and beganto coax him with all sorts of pretty ways.It was some time before the bait took, but at length even emperors areonly men!'Well, well,' he said at last, 'have your way and cut down the trees.but out of one they shall make a bed for me, and out of the other, onefor you!'And with this the empress was forced to be content. The aspens were cutdown next morning, and before night the new bed had been placed in theemperor's room.Now when the emperor lay down in it he seemed as if he had grown ahundred times heavier than usual, yet he felt a kind of calm that wasquite new to him. But the empress felt as if she was lying on thorns andnettles, and could not close her eyes.When the emperor was fast asleep, the bed began to crack loudly, and tothe empress each crack had a meaning. She felt as if she were listeningto a language which no one but herself could understand.'Is it too heavy for you, little brother?' asked one of the beds.'Oh, no, it is not heavy at all,' answered the bed in which the emperorwas sleeping. 'I feel nothing but joy now that my beloved father restsover me.''It is very heavy for me!' said the other bed, 'for on me lies an evilsoul.'And so they talked on till the morning, the empress listening all thewhile.By daybreak the empress had determined how to get rid of the beds. Shewould have two others made exactly like them, and when the emperor hadgone hunting they should be placed in his room. This was done and theaspen beds were burnt in a large fire, till only a little heap of asheswas left.Yet while they were burning the empress seemed to hear the same words,which she alone could understand.Then she stooped and gathered up the ashes, and scattered them to thefour winds, so that they might blow over fresh lands and fresh seas, andnothing remain of them.But she had not seen that where the fire burnt brightest two sparks flewup, and, after floating in the air for a few moments, fell down into thegreat river that flows through the heart of the country. Here the sparkshad turned into two little fishes with golden scales, and one was soexactly like the other that everyone could tell at the first glance thatthey must be twins. Early one morning the emperor's fishermen went downto the river to get some fish for their master's breakfast, and casttheir nets into the stream. As the last star twinkled out of the skythey drew them in, and among the multitude of fishes lay two with scalesof gold, such as no man had ever looked on.They all gathered round and wondered, and after some talk they decidedthat they would take the little fishes alive as they were, and give themas a present to the emperor.'Do not take us there, for that is whence we came, and yonder lies ourdestruction,' said one of the fishes.'But what are we to do with you?' asked the fisherman.'Go and collect all the dew that lies on the leaves, and let us swim init. Then lay us in the sun, and do not come near us till the sun's raysshall have dried off the dew,' answered the other fish.The fisherman did as they told him gathered the dew from the leaves andlet them swim in it, then put them to lie in the sun till the dew shouldbe all dried up.And when he came back, what do you think he saw? Why, two boys, twobeautiful young princes, with hair as golden as the stars on theirforeheads, and each so like the other, that at the first glance everyone would have known them for twins.The boys grew fast. In every day they grew a year's growth, and in everynight another year's growth, but at dawn, when the stars were fading,they grew three years' growth in the twinkling of an eye. And theygrew in other things besides height, too. Thrice in age, and thrice inwisdom, and thrice in knowledge. And when three days and three nightshad passed they were twelve years in age, twenty four in strength, andthirty six in wisdom.'Now take us to our father,' said they. So the fisherman gave them eacha lambskin cap which half covered their faces, and completely hid theirgolden hair and the stars on their foreheads, and led them to the court.By the time they arrived there it was midday, and the fisherman and hischarges went up to an official who was standing about. 'We wish to speakwith the emperor,' said one of the boys.'You must wait until he has finished his dinner,' replied the porter.'No, while he is eating it,' said the second boy, stepping across thethreshold.The attendants all ran forward to thrust such impudent youngstersoutside the palace, but the boys slipped through their fingers likequicksilver, and entered a large hall, where the emperor was dining,surrounded by his whole court.'We desire to enter,' said one of the princes sharply to a servant whostood near the door.'That is quite impossible,' replied the servant.'Is it? let us see!' said the second prince, pushing the servants toright and left.But the servants were many, and the princes only two. There was thenoise of a struggle, which reached the emperor's ears.'What is the matter?' asked he angrily.The princes stopped at the sound of their father's voice.'Two boys who want to force their way in,' replied one of the servants,approaching the emperor.'To FORCE their way in? Who dares to use force in my palace? What boysare they?' said the emperor all in one breath.'We know not, O mighty emperor,' answered the servant, 'but they mustsurely be akin to you, for they have the strength of lions, and havescattered the guards at the gate. And they are as proud as they arestrong, for they will not take their caps from their heads.'The emperor, as he listened, grew red with anger.'Thrust them out,' cried he. 'Set the dogs after them.''Leave us alone, and we will go quietly,' said the princes, and steppedbackwards, weeping silently at the harsh words. They had almost reachedthe gates when a servant ran up to them.'The emperor commands you to return,' panted he: 'the empress wishes tosee you.'The princes thought a moment: then they went back the way they had come,and walked straight up to the emperor, their caps still on their heads.He sat at the top of a long table covered with flowers and filled withguests. And beside him sat the empress, supported by twelve cushions.When the princes entered one of the cushions fell down, and thereremained only eleven.'Take off your caps,' said one of the courtiers.'A covered head is among men a sign of honour. We wish to seem what weare.''Never mind,' said the emperor, whose anger had dropped before thesilvery tones of the boy's voice. 'Stay as you are, but tell me WHO youare! Where do you come from, and what do you want?''We are twins, two shoots from one stem, which has been broken, andhalf lies in the ground and half sits at the head of this table. We havetravelled a long way, we have spoken in the rustle of the wind, havewhispered in the wood, we have sung in the waters, but now we wish totell you a story which you know without knowing it, in the speech ofmen.'And a second cushion fell down.'Let them take their silliness home,' said the empress.'Oh, no, let them go on,' said the emperor. 'You wished to see them, butI wish to hear them. Go on, boys, sing me the story.'The empress was silent, but the princes began to sing the story of theirlives.'There was once an emperor,' began they, and the third cushion felldown.When they reached the warlike expedition of the emperor three of thecushions fell down at once.And when the tale was finished there were no more cushions under theempress, but the moment that they lifted their caps, and showed theirgolden hair and the golden stars, the eyes of the emperor and of allhis guests were bent on them, and they could hardly bear the power of somany glances.And there happened in the end what should have happened in thebeginning. Laptitza sat next her husband at the top of the table. Thestepmother's daughter became the meanest sewing maid in the palace, thestepmother was tied to a wild horse, and every one knew and has neverforgotten that whoever has a mind turned to wickedness is sure to endbadly.(Rumanische Marchen.)