In a town in Persia there dwelt two brothers, one named Cassim, theother Ali Baba. Cassim was married to a rich wife and lived in plenty,while Ali Baba had to maintain his wife and children by cutting wood in aneighboring forest and selling it in the town.One day, when Ali Baba was in the forest, he saw a troop of men onhorseback, coming toward him in a cloud of dust. He was afraid they wererobbers, and climbed into a tree for safety. When they came up to him anddismounted, he counted forty of them. They unbridled their horses and tiedthem to trees.The finest man among them, whom Ali Baba took to be their captain, wenta little way among some bushes, and said, "Open, Sesame!" so plainly thatAli Baba heard him.A door opened in the rocks, and having made the troop go in, hefollowed them, and the door shut again of itself. They stayed some timeinside, and Ali Baba, fearing they might come out and catch him, wasforced to sit patiently in the tree. At last the door opened again, andthe Forty Thieves came out. As the Captain went in last he came out first,and made them all pass by him. he then closed the door, saying, "Shut,Sesame!"Every man bridled his horse and mounted, the Captain put himself attheir head, and they returned as they came.Then Ali Baba climbed down and went to the door concealed among thebushes, and said, "Open, Sesame!" and it flew open.Ali Baba, who expected a dull, dismal place, was greatly surprised tofind it large and well lighted, hollowed by the hand of man in the form ofa vault, which received the light from an opening in the ceiling. He sawrich bales of merchandise   silk, stuff brocades, all piled together, andgold and silver in heaps, and money in leather purses. He went in and thedoor shut behind him. He did not look at the silver, but brought out asmany bags of gold as he thought his asses, which were browsing outside,could carry, loaded them with the bags, and hid it all with fagots.Using the words, "Shut, Sesame!" he closed the door and went home.Then he drove his asses into the yard, shut the gates, carried themoney bags to his wife, and emptied them out before her. He bade her keepthe secret, and he would go and bury the gold."Let me first measure it," said his wife. "I will go borrow a measureof someone, while you dig the hole."So she ran to the wife of Cassim and borrowed a measure. Knowing AliBaba's poverty, the sister was curious to find out what sort of grain hiswife wished to measure, and artfully put some suet at the bottom of themeasure. Ali Baba's wife went home and set the measure on the heap ofgold, and filled it and emptied it often, to her great content. She thencarried it back to her sister, without noticing that a piece of gold wassticking to it, which Cassim's wife perceived directly her back wasturned.She grew very curious, and said to Cassim when he came home, "Cassim,your brother is richer than you. He does not count his money, he measuresit."He begged her to explain this riddle, which she did by showing him thepiece of money and telling him where she found it. Then Cassim grew soenvious that he could not sleep, and went to his brother in the morningbefore sunrise. "Ali Baba," he said, showing him the gold piece, "youpretend to be poor and yet you measure gold."By this Ali Baba perceived that through his wife's folly Cassim and hiswife knew their secret, so he confessed all and offered Cassim a share."That I expect," said Cassim. "but I must know where to find thetreasure, otherwise I will discover all, and you will lose all."Ali Baba, more out of kindness than fear, told him of the cave, and thevery words to use. Cassim left Ali Baba, meaning to be beforehand with himand get the treasure for himself. He rose early next morning, and set outwith ten mules loaded with great chests. He soon found the place, and thedoor in the rock.He said, "Open, Sesame!" and the door opened and shut behind him. Hecould have feasted his eyes all day on the treasures, but he now hastenedto gather together as much of it as possible. but when he was ready to gohe could not remember what to say for thinking of his great riches.Instead of "Sesame," he said, "Open, Barley!" and the door remained fast.He named several different sorts of grain, all but the right one, and thedoor still stuck fast. He was so frightened at the danger he was in thathe had as much forgotten the word as if he had never heard it.About noon the robbers returned to their cave, and saw Cassim's mulesroving about with great chests on their backs. This gave them the alarm.they drew their sabers, and went to the door, which opened on theirCaptain's saying, "Open, Sesame!"Cassim, who had heard the trampling of their horses' feet, resolved tosell his life dearly, so when the door opened he leaped out and threw theCaptain down. In vain, however, for the robbers with their sabers soonkilled him. On entering the cave they saw all the bags laid ready, andcould not imagine how anyone had got in without knowing their secret. Theycut Cassim's body into four quarters, and nailed them up inside the cave,in order to frighten anyone who should venture in, and went away in searchof more treasure.As night drew on Cassim's wife grew very uneasy, and ran to herbrother in law, and told him where her husband had gone. Ali Baba did hisbest to comfort her, and set out to the forest in search of Cassim. Thefirst thing he saw on entering the cave was his dead brother. Full ofhorror, he put the body on one of his asses, and bags of gold on the othertwo, and, covering all with some fagots, returned home. He drove the twoasses laden with gold into his own yard, and led the other to Cassim'shouse.The door was opened by the slave Morgiana, whom he knew to be bothbrave and cunning. Unloading the ass, he said to her, "This is the body ofyour master, who has been murdered, but whom we must bury as though he haddied in his bed. I will speak with you again, but now tell your mistress Iam come."The wife of Cassim, on learning the fate of her husband, broke out intocries and tears, but Ali Baba offered to take her to live with him and hiswife if she would promise to keep his counsel and leave everything toMorgiana. whereupon she agreed, and dried her eyes.Morgiana, meanwhile, sought an apothecary and asked him for somelozenges. "My poor master," she said, "can neither eat nor speak, and noone knows what his distemper is." She carried home the lozenges andreturned next day weeping, and asked for an essence only given to thosejust about to die.Thus, in the evening, no one was surprised to hear the wretched shrieksand cries of Cassim's wife and Morgiana, telling everyone that Cassim wasdead.The day after Morgiana went to an old cobbler near the gates of thetown who opened his stall early, put a piece of gold in his hand, and badehim follow her with his needle and thread. Having bound his eyes with ahandkerchief, she took him to the room where the body lay, pulled off thebandage, and bade him sew the quarters together, after which she coveredhis eyes again and led him home. Then they buried Cassim, and Morgiana hisslave followed him to the grave, weeping and tearing her hair, whileCassim's wife stayed at home uttering lamentable cries. Next day she wentto live with Ali Baba, who gave Cassim's shop to his eldest son.The Forty Thieves, on their return to the cave, were much astonished tofind Cassim's body gone and some of their money bags."We are certainly discovered," said the Captain, "and shall be undoneif we cannot find out who it is that knows our secret. Two men must haveknown it. we have killed one, we must now find the other. To this end oneof you who is bold and artful must go into the city dressed as a traveler,and discover whom we have killed, and whether men talk of the strangemanner of his death. If the messenger fails he must lose his life, lest webe betrayed."One of the thieves started up and offered to do this, and after therest had highly commended him for his bravery he disguised himself, andhappened to enter the town at daybreak, just by Baba Mustapha's stall. Thethief bade him good day, saying, "Honest man, how can you possibly see tostitch at your age?""Old as I am," replied the cobbler, "I have very good eyes, and willyou believe me when I tell you that I sewed a dead body together in aplace where I had less light than I have now."The robber was overjoyed at his good fortune, and, giving him a pieceof gold, desired to be shown the house where he stitched up the dead body.At first Mustapha refused, saying that he had been blindfolded. but whenthe robber gave him another piece of gold he began to think he mightremember the turnings if blindfolded as before. This means succeeded. therobber partly led him, and was partly guided by him, right in front ofCassim's house, the door of which the robber marked with a piece of chalk.Then, well pleased, he bade farewell to Baba Mustapha and returned to theforest. By and by Morgiana, going out, saw the mark the robber had made,quickly guessed that some mischief was brewing, and fetching a piece ofchalk marked two or three doors on each side, without saying anything toher master or mistress.The thief, meantime, told his comrades of his discovery. The Captainthanked him, and bade him show him the house he had marked. But when theycame to it they saw that five or six of the houses were chalked in thesame manner. The guide was so confounded that he knew not what answer tomake, and when they returned he was at once beheaded for having failed.Another robber was dispatched, and, having won over Baba Mustapha,marked the house in red chalk. but Morgiana being again too clever forthem, the second messenger was put to death also.The Captain now resolved to go himself, but, wiser than the others, hedid not mark the house, but looked at it so closely that he could not failto remember it. He returned, and ordered his men to go into theneighboring villages and buy nineteen mules, and thirty eight leatherjars, all empty except one, which was full of oil. The Captain put one ofhis men, fully armed, into each, rubbing the outside of the jars with oilfrom the full vessel. Then the nineteen mules were loaded withthirty seven robbers in jars, and the jar of oil, and reached the town bydusk.The Captain stopped his mules in front of Ali Baba's house, and said toAli Baba, who was sitting outside for coolness, "I have brought some oilfrom a distance to sell at tomorrow's market, but it is now so late that Iknow not where to pass the night, unless you will do me the favor to takeme in."Though Ali Baba had seen the Captain of the robbers in the forest, hedid not recognize him in the disguise of an oil merchant. He bade himwelcome, opened his gates for the mules to enter, and went to Morgiana tobid her prepare a bed and supper for his guest. He brought the strangerinto his hall, and after they had supped went again to speak to Morgianain the kitchen, while the Captain went into the yard under pretense ofseeing after his mules, but really to tell his men what to do.Beginning at the first jar and ending at the last, he said to each man,"As soon as I throw some stones from the window of the chamber where Ilie, cut the jars open with your knives and come out, and I will be withyou in a trice."He returned to the house, and Morgiana led him to his chamber. She thentold Abdallah, her fellow slave, to set on the pot to make some broth forher master, who had gone to bed. Meanwhile her lamp went out, and she hadno more oil in the house."Do not be uneasy," said Abdallah. "go into the yard and take some outof one of those jars."Morgiana thanked him for his advice, took the oil pot, and went intothe yard. When she came to the first jar the robber inside said softly,"Is it time?"Any other slave but Morgiana, on finding a man in the jar instead ofthe oil she wanted, would have screamed and made a noise. but she, knowingthe danger her master was in, bethought herself of a plan, and answeredquietly, "Not yet, but presently."She went to all the jars, giving the same answer, till she came to thejar of oil. She now saw that her master, thinking to entertain an oilmerchant, had let thirty eight robbers into his house. She filled her oilpot, went back to the kitchen, and, having lit her lamp, went again to theoil jar and filled a large kettle full of oil. When it boiled she went andpoured enough oil into every jar to stifle and kill the robber inside.When this brave deed was done she went back to the kitchen, put out thefire and the lamp, and waited to see what would happen.In a quarter of an hour the Captain of the robbers awoke, got up, andopened the window. As all seemed quiet, he threw down some little pebbleswhich hit the jars. He listened, and as none of his men seemed to stir hegrew uneasy, and went down into the yard. On going to the first jar andsaying, "Are you asleep?" he smelt the hot boiled oil, and knew at oncethat his plot to murder Ali Baba and his household had been discovered. Hefound all the gang was dead, and, missing the oil out of the last jar,became aware of the manner of their death. He then forced the lock of adoor leading into a garden, and climbing over several walls made hisescape. Morgiana heard and saw all this, and, rejoicing at her success,went to bed and fell asleep.At daybreak Ali Baba arose, and, seeing the oil jars still there, askedwhy the merchant had not gone with his mules. Morgiana bade him look inthe first jar and see if there was any oil. Seeing a man, he started backin terror. "Have no fear," said Morgiana. "the man cannot harm you. he isdead."Ali Baba, when he had recovered somewhat from his astonishment, askedwhat had become of the merchant."Merchant!" said she, "he is no more a merchant than I am!" and shetold him the whole story, assuring him that it was a plot of the robbersof the forest, of whom only three were left, and that the white and redchalk marks had something to do with it. Ali Baba at once gave Morgianaher freedom, saying that he owed her his life. They then buried the bodiesin Ali Baba's garden, while the mules were sold in the market by hisslaves.The Captain returned to his lonely cave, which seemed frightful to himwithout his lost companions, and firmly resolved to avenge them by killingAli Baba. He dressed himself carefully, and went into the town, where hetook lodgings in an inn. In the course of a great many journeys to theforest he carried away many rich stuffs and much fine linen, and set up ashop opposite that of Ali Baba's son. He called himself Cogia Hassan, andas he was both civil and well dressed he soon made friends with Ali Baba'sson, and through him with Ali Baba, whom he was continually asking to supwith him.Ali Baba, wishing to return his kindness, invited him into his houseand received him smiling, thanking him for his kindness to his son.When the merchant was about to take his leave Ali Baba stopped him,saying, "Where are you going, sir, in such haste? Will you not stay andsup with me?"The merchant refused, saying that he had a reason. and, on Ali Baba'sasking him what that was, he replied, "It is, sir, that I can eat novictuals that have any salt in them.""If that is all," said Ali Baba, "let me tell you that there shall beno salt in either the meat or the bread that we eat to night."He went to give this order to Morgiana, who was much surprised."Who is this man," she said, "who eats no salt with his meat?""He is an honest man, Morgiana," returned her master. "therefore do asI bid you."But she could not withstand a desire to see this strange man, so shehelped Abdallah to carry up the dishes, and saw in a moment that CogiaHassan was the robber Captain, and carried a dagger under his garment."I am not surprised," she said to herself, "that this wicked man, whointends to kill my master, will eat no salt with him. but I will hinderhis plans."She sent up the supper by Abdallah, while she made ready for one of theboldest acts that could be thought on. When the dessert had been served,Cogia Hassan was left alone with Ali Baba and his son, whom he thought tomake drunk and then to murder them. Morgiana, meanwhile, put on aheaddress like a dancing girl's, and clasped a girdle round her waist,from which hung a dagger with a silver hilt, and said to Abdallah, "Takeyour tabor, and let us go and divert our master and his guest."Abdallah took his tabor and played before Morgiana until they came tothe door, where Abdallah stopped playing and Morgiana made a low courtesy."Come in, Morgiana," said Ali Baba, "and let Cogia Hassan see what youcan do". and, turning to Cogia Hassan, he said, "She's my slave and myhousekeeper."Cogia Hassan was by no means pleased, for he feared that his chance ofkilling Ali Baba was gone for the present. but he pretended greateagerness to see Morgiana, and Abdallah began to play and Morgiana todance. After she had performed several dances she drew her dagger and madepasses with it, sometimes pointing it at her own breast, sometimes at hermaster's, as if it were part of the dance. Suddenly, out of breath, shesnatched the tabor from Abdallah with her left hand, and, holding thedagger in her right hand, held out the tabor to her master. Ali Baba andhis son put a piece of gold into it, and Cogia Hassan, seeing that she wascoming to him, pulled out his purse to make her a present, but while hewas putting his hand into it Morgiana plunged the dagger into his heart."Unhappy girl!" cried Ali Baba and his son, "what have you done to ruinus?""It was to preserve you, master, not to ruin you," answered Morgiana."See here," opening the false merchant's garment and showing the dagger."see what an enemy you have entertained! Remember, he would eat no saltwith you, and what more would you have? Look at him! he is both the falseoil merchant and the Captain of the Forty Thieves."Ali Baba was so grateful to Morgiana for thus saving his life that heoffered her to his son in marriage, who readily consented, and a few daysafter the wedding was celebrated with greatest splendor.At the end of a year Ali Baba, hearing nothing of the two remainingrobbers, judged they were dead, and set out to the cave. The door openedon his saying, "Open Sesame!" He went in, and saw that nobody had beenthere since the Captain left it. He brought away as much gold as he couldcarry, and returned to town. He told his son the secret of the cave, whichhis son handed down in his turn, so the children and grandchildren of AliBaba were rich to the end of their lives.