An emperor, whose wife had died, came upon the horrible idea to marry hisdaughter. However, she refused, and in this she was supported by her nursewith whom she confided all the secrets of her heart. When the emperoragain brought his proposal to her, she declared   following the oldwoman's advice   that she would accept if she could have a beautifulsilver dress. The emperor quickly had such a dress made and brought it tohis daughter himself, hoping that now she would cease hesitating. But theprincess, again coached by her nurse, this time demanded a beautifulgolden dress, that would have to be ten times more valuable than thesilver one. The emperor immediately ordered the master goldsmiths in hiscapital city to make such a dress, taking as much gold as they needed fromhis treasury. When it was finished he joyfully took it to the princess,but found her as resistant as before. Now she demanded a beautiful diamonddress that was worth ten thousand times more than the golden one. "Such adress," the nurse had said, "will cost more than his treasury contains,and that will be the end of his proposals."The emperor was astonished at this monstrous requirement, but in order toachieve his goal he depleted his treasury, and what was still needed heforcefully took from his subjects. Thus he collected enough wealth to havea diamond dress made than cost ten thousand times what the golden one hadcost.The princess was startled when he brought it to her, and asked for one dayto think things through. The emperor granted her this, and she discussedthe situation with her nurse, who advised her to demand a dress that hecertainly would not be able to have made: one made entirely of lousepelts, and trimmed with flea pelts.When the emperor heard the princess's latest wish he became angry, butsaid nothing. Instead he issued the order to have such a dress made. Ittook an entire year to collect all the pelts and hides for this dress, andyet another year before they were all sewn together. Then emperor broughtthe dress to his daughter, and this time the princess   following the oldwoman's advice   let the marriage between herself and her father takeplace.That evening, after entering the bridal chamber with him, she asked forpermission to step outside for a moment. He refused, for he did not trusther and thought that she wanted to escape from him. She gave him a pieceof string, tying one end around her own left hand, and told him that ifshe did not come back in time, he would only have to pull her in.So the hateful father finally agreed, and the princess slipped out thedoor, where her nurse was standing ready with an old bill goat, and theyquickly tied the string around its horns. Then the princess put on all herdresses   first the one of diamonds, over that the one of gold, then thesilver one, and over them all the disgusting one that the emperor had justhad made. Then she fled.Meanwhile the emperor waited impatiently, finally pulling gently on thestring. Outside the billy goat pulled back. The emperor finally pulledhard, but the billy goat would not be outdone in such a tug of war.Finally the emperor, filled with rage, jumped up and went to the door. Tohis astonishment, instead of his charming daughter he found there a shaggyblack billy goat, which rudely attacked him with its horns. The emperorretreated into the bridal chamber, and called for his people, who   ledby the nurse   came to him. The emperor vented his anger with a storm ofcurse words. He told of his adventure and ordered that the billy goat betaken away.The nurse began to shriek, "See here, you tyrannical father, see what youhave caused? God has punished you because of your wicked marriage. He hastransformed your daughter into this terrible horned monster!"With these and many other words, the cunning nurse convinced the deceivedruler that the just anger of God had caused this miracle. Filled withshame, he said nothing more about the matter.Meanwhile the princess fled into a great forest, where   since the seasonwas right   she lived from berries and nuts that she found in the bushes.Now it happened that the prince of the kingdom to which these woodsbelonged was hunting there. Evening was approaching when the prince,accompanied by just one servant, pursued a wild boar into a deep thicket.To his great astonishment he saw there an unusual forest creature. Notknowing what to make of it, he aimed an arrow at it. When he saw that itwas not moving, he climbed the tree and captured the unknown animal alive.With great clamor the forest creature was led through the city to thepalace. There, because of its disgusting fur, it was turned over to theswineherd, who locked it in his worst pig stall, above which was a chickencoop. Thus the unknown forest creature's fur became even filthier. Fromthe scraps that they brought it to eat, it would take only berries andnuts from the forest.Soon afterward there was a glorious festival in the city. The son of awell known gentleman was getting married. All the beautiful and importantpeople were gathered there: maidens, ladies, and gentlemen, whatever theirnames.When evening came the princess, pulled off her disgusting garb, revealingthe silver dress beneath it, left the pig stall, and went to the wedding.The prince, who was also there, saw her and danced with her. and becausehe found her so extraordinarily beautiful he gave her a valuable ring,after having spoken with her, and in the end having danced only with her.Morning approached, and the unknown beauty disappeared from the hallwithout anyone observing where she went. The princess had put her stallgarb back on and was peacefully asleep in the pig stall.On the second evening she again appeared at the wedding, this time in hergolden dress. The prince, who had been looking for her, was very happy tosee her, and did not leave her side, for he wanted to know who thisexceptionally wealthy gleaming beauty was. However, although he watchedher carefully, trying to prevent her from escaping again, she tookadvantage of an opportune moment and slipped away. Before anyone noticedher absence she was again hidden beneath her filthy garb in the pig stall.On the third evening the mysterious maiden once again appeared at thewedding. Her glorious diamond dress astonished everyone. The princethought that a maiden wearing such an incalculably costly dress must be ofhigh nobility, but he was a thousand times more impressed by her personalbeauty. He happily conversed with her alone, but to his dismay she wouldnot tell him who she was or where she came from.As morning approached she again slipped away from the hall so cunninglythat neither the prince nor anyone else noticed her leave.The wedding was now over, and the prince had no hope of seeing hismysterious beloved again. This made him seriously ill. The princess sat inher pig stall, but not as calmly as earlier, for she too had fallen inlove. A few days passed, and the prince, almost dying of longing, did notleave his bed. Then one of his friends came to visit him, and he orderedbreakfast for the prince.The strange forest creature appeared to be quiet and well behaved, so theylet it run about freely. On this morning it had gone to the kitchen towarm itself by the fire, for it was cold in the stall. Reluctantly thekitchen maid had allowed this, and the forest creature was cowering nextto the stove. When milk was placed on the fire, the forest creature askedwho it was for. Learning that it was for the prince, she secretly pulledfrom her finger the ring that the prince had given her at the wedding, anddropped it into the pot. After warming herself, she crept back to the pigstall, put on her diamond dress, and was once again the most beautifulprincess.Meanwhile the prince was eating breakfast with his friend, and he wasshocked almost to death to discover at the bottom of the milk pot the ringthat he had given to his beloved mysterious stranger. He immediatelysummoned the kitchen maid who had prepared his breakfast, but she sworethat she did not know how the ring came to be in the pot. The princeinvestigated further: Who else had been in the kitchen. Finally the girladmitted, after resisting for a long time, that the ugly forest creaturehad been there warming itself by the fire.The prince and his friend immediately went to the stall where thedisgusting forest creature was kept. He opened the door and looked inside,then took three steps back in joyful surprise. There sat his beautiful andbeloved mysterious stranger, dressed in her glorious gown.She stepped out and said, "I am the one, my prince!"Answering his questions as to how she had come to this horrible place, shetold him her story, which astonished everyone. Then the prince tenderlytook his beloved princess into his arms. Soon thereafter, to the pleasureof the entire court, a magnificent wedding brought this story to a happingend.