One day a woman went to cut thatching grass andshe cut such a quantity that when she tied it up, thebundle was too big for her to lift on to her head. soshe stood and called for some one to help her, but noone was within hearing and no one came. She calledand called and at last began to promise that she wouldgive her daughter in marriage to any one who wouldhelp her.After she had called out this a few times, a tigersuddenly appeared and asked what she wanted. sheexplained her difficulty and the tiger undertook to liftthe load on to her head, if she would really give himher daughter in marriage. She promised and withthe help of the tiger took up the bundle and wenthome.Two or three days after, the tiger presented himself ather house and was duly married to the daughter. Afterthe wedding the couple started for the tiger's home.all the way the unhappy bride wept und sang:"How far off is our home, big head?""You can just see the mouth of the cave," answered thetiger and in a short time they came to a large cave.Then the tiger told her to set to work and cook a feast whilehe went off and invited his friends to come and share it.But the bride when left alone caught a cat and killedit and hung it over the fire, so that its blood droppedslowly into the pan and made a fizzling noise, as ifcooking were going on. and then she ran off to hermother's house and climbed a tree which grew near itand began to sing:You married me to a ti ti tiger:You threw me to a bear:Take back the necklace you gave meTake back the bracelet and the diamonds and the coral.Meanwhile the tiger returned with his friends and satdown outside the cave and told his wife to be quickwith the cooking of the cakes for he heard the hissingover the fire and thought that she was cooking. Atlast as she did not come out, he got tired of waitingand went in to fetch her. Then he saw that she haddisappeared and had to go and tell his friends. Theywere very angry at being cheated out of a feast, andfell upon the tiger and beat him, till he ran away andwas seen no more. but his bride was left to flit fromtree to tree singing:You married me to a ti ti tiger:You threw me to a bear:Take back the necklace you gave meTake back the bracelet and the diamonds and the coral.