THERE were once upon a time a King and a Queen who lived happilytogether, and they had twelve children, all of whom were boys. One daythe King said to his wife:'If our thirteenth child is a girl, all her twelve brothers must die, sothat she may be very rich and the kingdom hers alone.'Then he ordered twelve coffins to be made, and filled them withshavings, and placed a little pillow in each. These he put away in anempty room, and, giving the key to his wife, he bade her tell no one ofit.The Queen grieved over the sad fate of her sons and refused to becomforted, so much so that the youngest boy, who was always with her,and whom she had christened Benjamin, said to her one day:'Dear mother, why are you so sad?''My child,' she answered, 'I may not tell you the reason.'But he left her no peace, till she went and unlocked the room and showedhim the twelve coffins filled with shavings, and with the little pillowlaid in each.Then she said: 'My dearest Benjamin, your father has had these coffinsmade for you and your eleven brothers, because if I bring a girl intothe world you are all to be killed and buried in them.'She wept bitterly as she spoke, but her son comforted her and said:'Don't cry, dear mother. we'll manage to escape somehow, and will flyfor our lives.''Yes,' replied his mother, 'that is what you must do go with youreleven brothers out into the wood, and let one of you always sit on thehighest tree you can find, keeping watch on the tower of the castle. IfI give birth to a little son I will wave a white flag, and then you maysafely return. but if I give birth to a little daughter I will wave ared flag, which will warn you to fly away as quickly as you can, and maythe kind Heaven have pity on you. Every night I will get up and pray foryou, in winter that you may always have a fire to warm yourselves by,and in summer that you may not languish in the heat.'Then she blessed her sons and they set out into the wood. They found avery high oak tree, and there they sat, turn about, keeping their eyesalways fixed on the castle tower. On the twelfth day, when the turn cameto Benjamin, he noticed a flag waving in the air, but alas! it was notwhite, but blood red, the sign which told them they must all die. Whenthe brothers heard this they were very angry, and said:'Shall we forsooth suffer death for the sake of a wretched girl? Let usswear vengeance, and vow that wherever and whenever we shall meet one ofher sex, she shall die at our hands.'Then they went their way deeper into the wood, and in the middle of it,where it was thickest and darkest, they came upon a little enchantedhouse which stood empty.'Here,' they said, 'let us take up our abode, and you, Benjamin, you arethe youngest and weakest, you shall stay at home and keep house for us.we others will go out and fetch food.' So they went forth into the wood,and shot hares and roe deer, birds and wood pigeons, and any other gamethey came across. They always brought their spoils home to Benjamin, whosoon learnt to make them into dainty dishes. So they lived for ten yearsin this little house, and the time slipped merrily away.In the meantime their little sister at home was growing up quickly.She was kind hearted and of a fair countenance, and she had a gold starright in the middle of her forehead. One day a big washing was goingon at the palace, and the girl looking down from her window saw twelvemen's shirts hanging up to dry, and asked her mother:'Who in the world do these shirts belong to? Surely they are far toosmall for my father?'And the Queen answered sadly: 'Dear child, they belong to your twelvebrothers.''But where are my twelve brothers?' said the girl. 'I have never evenheard of them.''Heaven alone knows in what part of the wide world they are wandering,'replied her mother.Then she took the girl and opened the locked up room. she showed her thetwelve coffins filled with shavings, and with the little pillow laid ineach.'These coffins,' she said, 'were intended for your brothers, but theystole secretly away before you were born.'Then she to tell her all that had happened, and when she had finishedher daughter said:'Do not cry, dearest mother. I will go and seek my brothers till I findthem.'So she took the twelve shirts and went on straight into the middle ofthe big wood. She walked all day long, and came in the evening to thelittle enchanted house. She stepped in and found a youth who, marvellingat her beauty, at the royal robes she wore, and at the golden star onher forehead, asked her where she came from and whither she was going.'I am a Princess,' she answered, 'and am seeking for my twelve brothers.I mean to wander as far as the blue sky stretches over the earth till Ifind them.'Then she showed him the twelve shirts which she had taken with her, andBenjamin saw that it must be his sister, and said:'I am Benjamin, your youngest brother.'So they wept for joy, and kissed and hugged each other again and again.After a time Benjamin said:'Dear sister, there is still a little difficulty, for we had all agreedthat any girl we met should die at our hands, because it was for thesake of a girl that we had to leave our kingdom.''But,' she replied, 'I will gladly die if by that means I can restore mytwelve brothers to their own.''No,' he answered, 'there is no need for that. only go and hide underthat tub till our eleven brothers come in, and I'll soon make mattersright with them.'She did as she was bid, and soon the others came home from the chase andsat down to supper.'Well, Benjamin, what's the news?' they asked. But he replied, 'I likethat. have you nothing to tell me?''No,' they answered.Then he said: 'Well, now, you've been out in the wood all the day andI've stayed quietly at home, and all the same I know more than you do.''Then tell us,' they cried.But he answered: 'Only on condition that you promise faithfully that thefirst girl we meet shall not be killed.''She shall be spared,' they promised, 'only tell us the news.'Then Benjamin said: 'Our sister is here!' and he lifted up the tub andthe Princess stepped forward, with her royal robes and with the goldenstar on her forehead, looking so lovely and sweet and charming that theyall fell in love with her on the spot.They arranged that she should stay at home with Benjamin and help himin the house work, while the rest of the brothers went out into the woodand shot hares and roe deer, birds and wood pigeons. And Benjamin andhis sister cooked their meals for them. She gathered herbs to cook thevegetables in, fetched the wood, and watched the pots on the fire, andalways when her eleven brothers returned she had their supper ready forthem. Besides this, she kept the house in order, tidied all the rooms,and made herself so generally useful that her brothers were delighted,and they all lived happily together.One day the two at home prepared a fine feast, and when they were allassembled they sat down and ate and drank and made merry.Now there was a little garden round the enchanted house, in which grewtwelve tall lilies. The girl, wishing to please her brothers, pluckedthe twelve flowers, meaning to present one to each of them as they satat supper. But hardly had she plucked the flowers when her brotherswere turned into twelve ravens, who flew croaking over the wood, and thehouse and garden vanished also.So the poor girl found herself left all alone in the wood, and as shelooked round her she noticed an old woman standing close beside her, whosaid:'My child, what have you done? Why didn't you leave the flowers alone?They were your twelve brothers. Now they are changed for ever intoravens.'The girl asked, sobbing: 'Is there no means of setting them free?''No,' said the old woman, 'there is only one way in the whole world, andthat is so difficult that you won't free them by it, for you would haveto be dumb and not laugh for seven years, and if you spoke a singleword, though but an hour were wanting to the time, your silence wouldall have been in vain, and that one word would slay your brothers.'Then the girl said to herself: 'If that is all I am quite sure I canfree my brothers.' So she searched for a high tree, and when she hadfound one she climbed up it and spun all day long, never laughing orspeaking one word.Now it happened one day that a King who was hunting in the wood had alarge greyhound, who ran sniffing to the tree on which the girl sat, andjumped round it, yelping and barking furiously. The King's attention wasattracted, and when he looked up and beheld the beautiful Princess withthe golden star on her forehead, he was so enchanted by her beauty thathe asked her on the spot to be his wife. She gave no answer, but noddedslightly with her head. Then he climbed up the tree himself, lifted herdown, put her on his horse and bore her home to his palace.The marriage was celebrated with much pomp and ceremony, but the brideneither spoke nor laughed.When they had lived a few years happily together, the King's mother, whowas a wicked old woman, began to slander the young Queen, and said tothe King:'She is only a low born beggar maid that you have married. who knowswhat mischief she is up to? If she is deaf and can't speak, she mightat least laugh. depend upon it, those who don't laugh have a badconscience.' At first the King paid no heed to her words, but the oldwoman harped so long on the subject, and accused the young Queen ofso many bad things, that at last he let himself be talked over, andcondemned his beautiful wife to death.So a great fire was lit in the courtyard of the palace, where she wasto be burnt, and the King watched the proceedings from an upper window,crying bitterly the while, for he still loved his wife dearly. But justas she had been bound to the stake, and the flames were licking hergarments with their red tongues, the very last moment of the seven yearshad come. Then a sudden rushing sound was heard in the air, and twelveravens were seen flying overhead. They swooped downwards, and as soonas they touched the ground they turned into her twelve brothers, and sheknew that she had freed them.They quenched the flames and put out the fire, and, unbinding their dearsister from the stake, they kissed and hugged her again and again. Andnow that she was able to open her mouth and speak, she told the King whyshe had been dumb and not able to laugh.The King rejoiced greatly when he heard she was innocent, and they alllived happily ever afterwards.(22)(22) Grimm.