Nicostratus, a wealthy patrician, married Lydia, a woman of greatdistinction and unsurpassed beauty. He was well advanced in years, whileshe was still a paragon of youth and vitality. Consequently, to state thematter delicately, their marriage did not leave the young wife entirelysatisfied. Thus, it is quite understandable that Lydia found herselfpaying ever more attention to one of her husband's servants, Pyrrhus byname, who was elegant, handsome, young, and energetic. He was attracted toher as well, and gladly would have accepted her invitations to love, butthe old man gave them no opportunity. What he lacked in vigor he made upwith jealousy and perseverance, rarely leaving his beautiful young wifealone.Their unrequited passion aglow, Lydia and Pyrrhus devised a daringscheme through which, even in the master's presence, they might satisfytheir longing for one another. Accordingly, one day when the three werewalking in the garden, as they often did, Lydia requested a pear from acertain tree. Pyrrhus climbed after the fruit, but once in the tree, hecalled to his master, "Have you no shame, making love like that in broaddaylight?"The master demanded an explanation for the strange remark, and Pyrrhusconcluded that the pear tree was enchanted, giving the impression ofunreal happenings below. To test the theory, he asked his master to climbthe tree, and see if he too would behold impossible things below. Hiscuriosity piqued, Nicostratus mustered enough strength to climb onto oneof the pear tree's lower branches. Looking down, what did he behold butPyrrhus and Lydia making fervent love. From his precarious perch, heshouted curses, threats, and insults at them. but they   engaged withother pursuits   quite ignored him.Nicostratus climbed down from the tree, only to find Pyrrhus and Lydiaseated discretely on a garden bench. Their innocent demeanor convinced himthat nothing unseemly had happened. Fearing that only a bedeviled treecould be responsible for the vile images that he had perceived, he sentfor an ax and had it cut down immediately.From that time forth Nicostratus relaxed his watchful vigil over hisyoung wife, and thus Pyrrhus and Lydia were able to pluck the fruits oftheir love at regular intervals, even without the help of their enchantedpear tree.