A Flea, a Grasshopper, and a Leap frog once wanted to see which couldjump highest. and they invited the whole world, and everybody elsebesides who chose to come to see the festival. Three famous jumpers werethey, as everyone would say, when they all met together in the room."I will give my daughter to him who jumps highest," exclaimed the King."for it is not so amusing where there is no prize to jump for."The Flea was the first to step forward. He had exquisite manners, andbowed to the company on all sides. for he had noble blood, and was,moreover, accustomed to the society of man alone. and that makes a greatdifference.Then came the Grasshopper. He was considerably heavier, but he waswell mannered, and wore a green uniform, which he had by right of birth.he said, moreover, that he belonged to a very ancient Egyptian family,and that in the house where he then was, he was thought much of. Thefact was, he had been just brought out of the fields, and put in apasteboard house, three stories high, all made of court cards, with thecolored side inwards. and doors and windows cut out of the body ofthe Queen of Hearts. "I sing so well," said he, "that sixteen nativegrasshoppers who have chirped from infancy, and yet got no house builtof cards to live in, grew thinner than they were before for sheervexation when they heard me."It was thus that the Flea and the Grasshopper gave an account ofthemselves, and thought they were quite good enough to marry a Princess.The Leap frog said nothing. but people gave it as their opinion, thathe therefore thought the more. and when the housedog snuffed at himwith his nose, he confessed the Leap frog was of good family. The oldcouncillor, who had had three orders given him to make him hold histongue, asserted that the Leap frog was a prophet. for that one couldsee on his back, if there would be a severe or mild winter, and thatwas what one could not see even on the back of the man who writes thealmanac."I say nothing, it is true," exclaimed the King. "but I have my ownopinion, notwithstanding."Now the trial was to take place. The Flea jumped so high that nobodycould see where he went to. so they all asserted he had not jumped atall. and that was dishonorable.The Grasshopper jumped only half as high. but he leaped into the King'sface, who said that was ill mannered.The Leap frog stood still for a long time lost in thought. it wasbelieved at last he would not jump at all."I only hope he is not unwell," said the house dog. when, pop! he made ajump all on one side into the lap of the Princess, who was sitting on alittle golden stool close by.Hereupon the King said, "There is nothing above my daughter. thereforeto bound up to her is the highest jump that can be made. but for this,one must possess understanding, and the Leap frog has shown that he hasunderstanding. He is brave and intellectual."And so he won the Princess."It's all the same to me," said the Flea. "She may have the oldLeap frog, for all I care. I jumped the highest. but in this worldmerit seldom meets its reward. A fine exterior is what people look atnow a days."The Flea then went into foreign service, where, it is said, he waskilled.The Grasshopper sat without on a green bank, and reflected on worldlythings. and he said too, "Yes, a fine exterior is everything a fineexterior is what people care about." And then he began chirping hispeculiar melancholy song, from which we have taken this history. andwhich may, very possibly, be all untrue, although it does stand hereprinted in black and white.