(8) Cabinet des Fees.In a part of the world whose name I forget lived once upon a time twokings, called Peridor and Diamantino. They were cousins as well asneighbours, and both were under the protection of the fairies. though itis only fair to say that the fairies did not love them half so well astheir wives did.Now it often happens that as princes can generally manage to get theirown way it is harder for them to be good than it is for common people.So it was with Peridor and Diamantino. but of the two, the fairiesdeclared that Diamantino was much the worst. indeed, he behaved so badlyto his wife Aglantino, that the fairies would not allow him to live anylonger. and he died, leaving behind him a little daughter. As she was anonly child, of course this little girl was the heiress of the kingdom,but, being still only a baby, her mother, the widow of Diamantino, wasproclaimed regent. The Queen dowager was wise and good, and tried herbest to make her people happy. The only thing she had to vex her wasthe absence of her daughter. for the fairies, for reasons of their own,determined to bring up the little Princess Serpentine among themselves.As to the other King, he was really fond of his wife, Queen Constance,but he often grieved her by his thoughtless ways, and in order to punishhim for his carelessness, the fairies caused her to die quite suddenly.When she was gone the King felt how much he had loved her, and his griefwas so great (though he never neglected his duties) that his subjectscalled him Peridor the Sorrowful. It seems hardly possible that anyman should live like Peridor for fifteen years plunged in such depth ofgrief, and most likely he would have died too if it had not been for thefairies.The one comfort the poor King had was his son, Prince Saphir, who wasonly three years old at the time of his mother's death, and great carewas given to his education. By the time he was fifteen Saphir had learnteverything that a prince should know, and he was, besides, charming andagreeable.It was about this time that the fairies suddenly took fright lest hislove for his father should interfere with the plans they had made forthe young prince. So, to prevent this, they placed in a pretty littleroom of which Saphir was very fond a little mirror in a black frame,such as were often brought from Venice. The Prince did not noticefor some days that there was anything new in the room, but at lasthe perceived it, and went up to look at it more closely. What was hissurprise to see reflected in the mirror, not his own face, but that ofa young girl as lovely as the morning! And, better still, every movementof the girl, just growing out of childhood, was also reflected in thewonderful glass.As might have been expected, the young Prince lost his heart completelyto the beautiful image, and it was impossible to get him out of theroom, so busy was he in watching the lovely unknown. Certainly it wasvery delightful to be able to see her whom he loved at any moment hechose, but his spirits sometimes sank when he wondered what was to bethe end of this adventure.The magic mirror had been for about a year in the Prince's possession,when one day a new subject of disquiet seized upon him. As usual, he wasengaged in looking at the girl, when suddenly he thought he saw a secondmirror reflected in the first, exactly like his own, and with the samepower. And in this he was perfectly right. The young girl had onlypossessed it for a short time, and neglected all her duties for the sakeof the mirror. Now it was not difficult for Saphir to guess the reasonof the change in her, nor why the new mirror was consulted so often.but try as he would he could never see the face of the person who wasreflected in it, for the young girl's figure always came between. All heknew was that the face was that of a man, and this was quite enough tomake him madly jealous. This was the doing of the fairies, and we mustsuppose that they had their reasons for acting as they did.When these things happened Saphir was about eighteen years old, andfifteen years had passed away since the death of his mother. KingPeridor had grown more and more unhappy as time went on, and at last hefell so ill that it seemed as if his days were numbered. He was so muchbeloved by his subjects that this sad news was heard with despair by thenation, and more than all by the Prince.During his whole illness the King never spoke of anything but the Queen,his sorrow at having grieved her, and his hope of one day seeing heragain. All the doctors and all the water cures in the kingdom had beentried, and nothing would do him any good. At last he persuaded them tolet him lie quietly in his room, where no one came to trouble him.Perhaps the worst pain he had to bear was a sort of weight on his chest,which made it very hard for him to breathe. So he commanded his servantsto leave the windows open in order that he might get more air. One day,when he had been left alone for a few minutes, a bird with brilliantplumage came and fluttered round the window, and finally rested on thesill. His feathers were sky blue and gold, his feet and his beak of suchglittering rubies that no one could bear to look at them, his eyes madethe brightest diamonds look dull, and on his head he wore a crown. Icannot tell you what the crown was made of, but I am quite certain thatit was still more splendid than all the rest. As to his voice I cansay nothing about that, for the bird never sang at all. In fact, he didnothing but gaze steadily at the King, and as he gazed, the King felthis strength come back to him. In a little while the bird flew into theroom, still with his eyes fixed on the King, and at every glance thestrength of the sick man became greater, till he was once more as wellas he used to be before the Queen died. Filled with joy at his cure,he tried to seize the bird to whom he owed it all, but, swifter than aswallow, it managed to avoid him. In vain he described the bird tohis attendants, who rushed at his first call. in vain they sought thewonderful creature both on horse and foot, and summoned the fowlers totheir aid: the bird could nowhere be found. The love the people boreKing Peridor was so strong, and the reward he promised was so large,that in the twinkling of an eye every man, woman, and child had fledinto the fields, and the towns were quite empty.All this bustle, however, ended in nothing but confusion, and, whatwas worse, the King soon fell back into the same condition as he was inbefore. Prince Saphir, who loved his father very dearly, was so unhappyat this that he persuaded himself that he might succeed where the othershad failed, and at once prepared himself for a more distant search.In spite of the opposition he met with, he rode away, followed by hishousehold, trusting to chance to help him. He had formed no plan, andthere was no reason that he should choose one path more than another.His only idea was to make straight for those spots which were thefavourite haunts of birds. But in vain he examined all the hedges andall the thickets. in vain he questioned everyone he met along the road.The more he sought the less he found.At last he came to one of the largest forests in all the world, composedentirely of cedars. But in spite of the deep shadows cast by thewide spreading branches of the trees, the grass underneath was soft andgreen, and covered with the rarest flowers. It seemed to Saphir thatthis was exactly the place where the birds would choose to live, andhe determined not to quit the wood until he had examined it from end toend. And he did more. He ordered some nets to be prepared and painted ofthe same colours as the bird's plumage, thinking that we are all easilycaught by what is like ourselves. In this he had to help him not onlythe fowlers by profession, but also his attendants, who excelled in thisart. For a man is not a courtier unless he can do everything.After searching as usual for nearly a whole day Prince Saphir beganto feel overcome with thirst. He was too tired to go any farther,when happily he discovered a little way off a bubbling fountain of theclearest water. Being an experienced traveller, he drew from his pocketa little cup (without which no one should ever take a journey), and wasjust about to dip it in the water, when a lovely little green frog,much prettier than frogs generally are, jumped into the cup. Far fromadmiring its beauty, Saphir shook it impatiently off. but it was nogood, for quick as lightning the frog jumped back again. Saphir, who wasraging with thirst, was just about to shake it off anew, when the littlecreature fixed upon him the most beautiful eyes in the world, and said,'I am a friend of the bird you are seeking, and when you have quenchedyour thirst listen to me.'So the Prince drank his fill, and then, by the command of the LittleGreen Frog, he lay down on the grass to rest himself.'Now,' she began, 'be sure you do exactly in every respect what I tellyou. First you must call together your attendants, and order them toremain in a little hamlet close by until you want them. Then go, quitealone, down a road that you will find on your right hand, lookingsouthwards. This road is planted all the way with cedars of Lebanon. andafter going down it a long way you will come at last to a magnificentcastle. And now,' she went on, 'attend carefully to what I am going tosay. Take this tiny grain of sand, and put it into the ground as closeas you can to the gate of the castle. It has the virtue both of openingthe gate and also of sending to sleep all the inhabitants. Then go atonce to the stable, and pay no heed to anything except what I tell you.Choose the handsomest of all the horses, leap quickly on its back, andcome to me as fast as you can. Farewell, Prince. I wish you goodluck,' and with these words the Little Frog plunged into the water anddisappeared.The Prince, who felt more hopeful than he had done since he left home,did precisely as he had been ordered. He left his attendants in thehamlet, found the road the frog had described to him, and followed itall alone, and at last he arrived at the gate of the castle, which waseven more splendid than he had expected, for it was built of crystal,and all its ornaments were of massive gold. However, he had no thoughtsto spare for its beauty, and quickly buried his grain of sand in theearth. In one instant the gates flew open, and all the dwellers insidefell sound asleep. Saphir flew straight to the stable, and already hadhis hand on the finest horse it contained, when his eye was caught bya suit of magnificent harness hanging up close by. It occurred tohim directly that the harness belonged to the horse, and without everthinking of harm (for indeed he who steals a horse can hardly be blamedfor taking his saddle), he hastily placed it on the animal's back.Suddenly the people in the castle became broad awake, and rushed to thestable. They flung themselves on the Prince, seized him, and dragged himbefore their lord. but, luckily for the Prince, who could only find verylame excuses for his conduct, the lord of the castle took a fancy to hisface, and let him depart without further questions.Very sad, and very much ashamed of himself poor Saphir crept back to thefountain, where the Frog was awaiting him with a good scolding.'Whom do you take me for?' she exclaimed angrily. 'Do you really believethat it was just for the pleasure of talking that I gave you the adviceyou have neglected so abominably?'But the Prince was so deeply grieved, and apologised so very humbly,that after some time the heart of the good little Frog was softened, andshe gave him another tiny little grain, but instead of being sand it wasnow a grain of gold. She directed him to do just as he had done before,with only this difference, that instead of going to the stable whichhad been the ruin of his hopes, he was to enter right into the castleitself, and to glide as fast as he could down the passages till he cameto a room filled with perfume, where he would find a beautiful maidenasleep on a bed. He was to wake the maiden instantly and carry her off,and to be sure not to pay any heed to whatever resistance she mightmake.The Prince obeyed the Frog's orders one by one, and all went well forthis second time also. The gate opened, the inhabitants fell soundasleep, and he walked down the passage till he found the girl on herbed, exactly as he had been told he would. He woke her, and begged herfirmly, but politely, to follow him quickly. After a little persuasionthe maiden consented, but only on condition that she was allowed firstto put on her dress. This sounded so reasonable and natural that it didnot enter the Prince's head to refuse her request.But the maiden's hand had hardly touched the dress when the palacesuddenly awoke from its sleep, and the Prince was seized and bound. Hewas so vexed with his own folly, and so taken aback at the disaster,that he did not attempt to explain his conduct, and things would havegone badly with him if his friends the fairies had not softened thehearts of his captors, so that they once more allowed him to leavequietly. However, what troubled him most was the idea of having to meetthe Frog who had been his benefactress. How was he ever to appear beforeher with this tale? Still, after a long struggle with himself, he madeup his mind that there was nothing else to be done, and that he deservedwhatever she might say to him. And she said a great deal, for she hadworked herself into a terrible passion. but the Prince humbly imploredher pardon, and ventured to point out that it would have been very hardto refuse the young lady's reasonable request. 'You must learn to do asyou are told,' was all the Frog would reply.But poor Saphir was so unhappy, and begged so hard for forgiveness, thatat last the Frog's anger gave way, and she held up to him a tiny diamondstone. 'Go back,' she said, 'to the castle, and bury this little diamondclose to the door. But be careful not to return to the stable or to thebedroom. they have proved too fatal to you. Walk straight to the gardenand enter through a portico, into a small green wood, in the midst ofwhich is a tree with a trunk of gold and leaves of emeralds. Perched onthis tree you will see the beautiful bird you have been seeking so long.You must cut the branch on which it is sitting, and bring it back tome without delay. But I warn you solemnly that if you disobey mydirections, as you have done twice before, you have nothing more toexpect either of me or anyone else.'With these words she jumped into the water, and the Prince, who hadtaken her threats much to heart, took his departure, firmly resolved notto deserve them. He found it all just as he had been told: the portico,the wood, the magnificent tree, and the beautiful bird, which wassleeping soundly on one of the branches. He speedily lopped off thebranch, and though he noticed a splendid golden cage hanging close by,which would have been very useful for the bird to travel in, he left italone, and came back to the fountain, holding his breath and walking ontip toe all the way, for fear lest he should awake his prize. But whatwas his surprise, when instead of finding the fountain in the spot wherehe had left it, he saw in its place a little rustic palace built inthe best taste, and standing in the doorway a charming maiden, at whosesight his mind seemed to give way.'What! Madam!' he cried, hardly knowing what he said. 'What! Is it you?'The maiden blushed and answered: 'Ah, my lord, it is long since I firstbeheld your face, but I did not think you had ever seen mine.''Oh, madam,' replied he, 'you can never guess the days and the hours Ihave passed lost in admiration of you.' And after these words they eachrelated all the strange things that had happened, and the more theytalked the more they felt convinced of the truth of the images theyhad seen in their mirrors. After some time spent in the most tenderconversation, the Prince could not restrain himself from asking thelovely unknown by what lucky chance she was wandering in the forest.where the fountain had gone. and if she knew anything of the Frog towhom he owed all his happiness, and to whom he must give up the bird,which, somehow or other, was still sound asleep.'Ah, my lord,' she replied, with rather an awkward air, 'as to the Frog,she stands before you. Let me tell you my story. it is not a long one. Iknow neither my country nor my parents, and the only thing I can say forcertain is that I am called Serpentine. The fairies, who have takencare of me ever since I was born, wished me to be in ignorance as to myfamily, but they have looked after my education, and have bestowed on meendless kindness. I have always lived in seclusion, and for the last twoyears I have wished for nothing better. I had a mirror' here shynessand embarrassment choked her words but regaining her self control,she added, 'You know that fairies insist on being obeyed withoutquestioning. It was they who changed the little house you saw before youinto the fountain for which you are now asking, and, having turned meinto a frog, they ordered me to say to the first person who came to thefountain exactly what I repeated to you. But, my lord, when you stoodbefore me, it was agony to my heart, filled as it was with thoughts ofyou, to appear to your eyes under so monstrous a form. However, therewas no help for it, and, painful as it was, I had to submit. I desiredyour success with all my soul, not only for your own sake, but also formy own, because I could not get back my proper shape till you had becomemaster of the beautiful bird, though I am quite ignorant as to yourreason for seeking it.'On this Saphir explained about the state of his father's health, and allthat has been told before.On hearing this story Serpentine grew very sad, and her lovely eyesfilled with tears.'Ah, my lord,' she said, 'you know nothing of me but what you have seenin the mirror. and I, who cannot even name my parents, learn that youare a king's son.'In vain Saphir declared that love made them equal. Serpentine would onlyreply: 'I love you too much to allow you to marry beneath your rank. Ishall be very unhappy, of course, but I shall never alter my mind. IfI do not find from the fairies that my birth is worthy of you, then,whatever be my feelings, I will never accept your hand.'The conversation was at this point, and bid fair to last some timelonger, when one of the fairies appeared in her ivory car, accompaniedby a beautiful woman past her early youth. At this moment the birdsuddenly awakened, and, flying on to Saphir's shoulder (which it neverafterwards left), began fondling him as well as a bird can do. The fairytold Serpentine that she was quite satisfied with her conduct, and madeherself very agreeable to Saphir, whom she presented to the lady she hadbrought with her, explaining that the lady was no other than his AuntAglantine, widow of Diamantino.Then they all fell into each other's arms, till the fairy mounted herchariot, placed Aglantine by her side, and Saphir and Serpentine on thefront seat. She also sent a message to the Prince's attendants thatthey might travel slowly back to the Court of King Peridor, and thatthe beautiful bird had really been found. This matter being comfortablyarranged, she started off her chariot. But in spite of the swiftnesswith which they flew through the air, the time passed even quicker forSaphir and Serpentine, who had so much to think about.They were still quite confused with the pleasure of seeing each other,when the chariot arrived at King Peridor's palace. He had had himselfcarried to a room on the roof, where his nurses thought that he woulddie at any moment. Directly the chariot drew within sight of the castlethe beautiful bird took flight, and, making straight for the dying King,at once cured him of his sickness. Then she resumed her natural shape,and he found that the bird was no other than the Queen Constance, whomhe had long believed to be dead. Peridor was rejoiced to embrace hiswife and his son once more, and with the help of the fairies began tomake preparations for the marriage of Saphir and Serpentine, who turnedout to be the daughter of Aglantine and Diamantino, and as much aprincess as he was a prince. The people of the kingdom were delighted,and everybody lived happy and contented to the end of their lives.