Once upon a time there lived a king who was always at war with hisneighbours, which was very strange, as he was a good and kind man,quite content with his own country, and not wanting to seize landbelonging to other people. Perhaps he may have tried too much toplease everybody, and that often ends in pleasing nobody. but, at anyrate, he found himself, at the end of a hard struggle, defeated inbattle, and obliged to fall back behind the walls of his capital city.Once there, he began to make preparations for a long siege, and thefirst thing he did was to plan how best to send his wife to a place ofsecurity.The queen, who loved her husband dearly, would gladly have remainedwith him to share his dangers, but he would not allow it. So theyparted, with many tears, and the queen set out with a strong guard to afortified castle on the outskirts of a great forest, some two hundredmiles distant. She cried nearly all the way, and when she arrived shecried still more, for everything in the castle was dusty and old, andoutside there was only a gravelled courtyard, and the king hadforbidden her to go beyond the walls without at least two soldiers totake care of her.Now the queen had only been married a few months, and in her own homeshe had been used to walk and ride all over the hills without anyattendants at all. so she felt very dull at her being shut up in thisway. However, she bore it for a long while because it was the king'swish, but when time passed and there were no signs of the war driftingin the direction of the castle, she grew bolder, and sometimes strayedoutside the walls, in the direction of the forest.Then came a dreadful period, when news from the king ceased entirely.'He must surely be ill or dead,' thought the poor girl, who even nowwas only sixteen. 'I can bear it no longer, and if I do not get aletter from him soon I shall leave this horrible place and go back tosee what is the matter. Oh! I do wish I had never come away!'So, without telling anyone what she intended to do, she ordered alittle low carriage to be built, something like a sledge, only it wason two wheels just big enough to hold one person.'I am tired of being always in the castle,' she said to her attendants.'and I mean to hunt a little. Quite close by, of course,' she added,seeing the anxious look on their faces. 'And there is no reason thatyou should not hunt too.'All the faces brightened at that, for, to tell the truth, they werenearly as dull as their mistress. so the queen had her way, and twobeautiful horses were brought from the stable to draw the littlechariot. At first the queen took care to keep near the rest of thehunt, but gradually she stayed away longer and longer, and at last, onemorning, she took advantage of the appearance of a wild boar, afterwhich her whole court instantly galloped, to turn into a path in theopposite direction.Unluckily, it did not happen to lead towards the king's palace, whereshe intended to go, but she was so afraid her flight would be noticedthat she whipped up her horses till they ran away.When she understood what was happening the poor young queen wasterribly frightened, and, dropping the reins, clung to the side of thechariot. The horses, thus left without any control, dashed blindlyagainst a tree, and the queen was flung out on the ground, where shelay for some minutes unconscious.A rustling sound near her at length caused her to open her eyes. beforeher stood a huge woman, almost a giantess, without any clothes save alion's skin, which was thrown over her shoulders, while a dried snake'sskin was plaited into her hair. In one hand she held a club on whichshe leaned, and in the other a quiver full of arrows.At the sight of this strange figure the queen thought she must be dead,and gazing on an inhabitant of another world. So she murmured softlyto herself:'I am not surprised that people are so loth to die when they know thatthey will see such horrible creatures.' But, low as she spoke, thegiantess caught the words, and began to laugh.'Oh, don't be afraid. you are still alive, and perhaps, after all, youmay be sorry for it. I am the Lion Fairy, and you are going to spendthe rest of your days with me in my palace, which is quite near this.So come along.' But the queen shrank back in horror.'Oh, Madam Lion, take me back, I pray you, to my castle. and fix whatransom you like, for my husband will pay it, whatever it is. But thegiantess shook her head.'I am rich enough already,' she answered, 'but I am often dull, and Ithink you may amuse me a little.' And, so saying, she changed hershape into that of a lion, and throwing the queen across her back, shewent down the ten thousand steps that led to her palace. The lion hadreached the centre of the earth before she stopped in front of a house,lighted with lamps, and built on the edge of a lake of quicksilver. Inthis lake various huge monsters might be seen playing or fighting thequeen did not know which  and around flew rooks and ravens, utteringdismal croaks. In the distance was a mountain down whose sides watersslowly coursed these were the tears of unhappy lovers and nearer thegate were trees without either fruit of flowers, while nettles andbrambles covered the ground. If the castle had been gloomy, what didthe queen feel about this?For some days the queen was so much shaken by all she had gone throughthat she lay with her eyes closed, unable either to move or speak.When she got better, the Lion Fairy told her that if she liked shecould build herself a cabin, as she would have to spend her life inthat place. At these words the queen burst into tears, and imploredher gaoler to put her to death rather than condemn her to such a life.but the Lion Fairy only laughed, and counselled her to try to makeherself pleasant, as many worse things might befall her.'Is there no way in which I can touch your heart?' asked the poor girlin despair.'Well, if you really wish to please me you will make me a pasty out ofthe stings of bees, and be sure it is good.''But I don't see any bees,' answered the queen, looking round.'Oh, no, there aren't any,' replied her tormentor. 'but you will haveto find them all the same.' And, so saying, she went away.'After all, what does it matter?' thought the queen to herself, 'I haveonly one life, and I can but lose it.' And not caring what she did,she left the palace and seating herself under a yew tree, poured outall her grief.'Oh, my dear husband,' wept she, 'what will you think when you come tothe castle to fetch me and find me gone? Rather a thousand times thatyou should fancy me dead than imagine that I had forgotten you! Ah,how fortunate that the broken chariot should be lying in the wood, forthen you may grieve for me as one devoured by wild beasts. And ifanother should take my place in your heart Well, at least I shallnever know it.'She might have continued for long in this fashion had not the voice ofa crow directly overhead attracted her attention. Looking up to seewhat was the matter she beheld, in the dim light, a crow holding a fatfrog in his claws, which he evidently intended for his supper. Thequeen rose hastily from the seat, and striking the bird sharply on theclaws with the fan which hung from her side, she forced him to drop thefrog, which fell to the round more dead than alive. The crow, furiousat his disappointment, flew angrily away.As soon as the frog had recovered her senses she hopped up to thequeen, who was still sitting under the yew. Standing on her hind legs,and bowing low before her, she said gently:'Beautiful lady, by what mischance do you come here? You are the onlycreature that I have seen do a kind deed since a fatal curiosity luredme to this place.''What sort of a frog can you be that knows the language of mortals?'asked the queen in her turn. 'But if you do, tell me, I pray, if Ialone am a captive, for hitherto I have beheld no one but the monstersof the lake.''Once upon a time they were men and women like yourself,' answered thefrog, 'but having power in their hands, they used it for their ownpleasure. Therefore fate has sent them here for a while to bear thepunishment of their misdoings.''But you, friend frog, you are not one of these wicked people, I amsure?' asked the queen.'I am half a fairy,' replied the frog. 'but, although I have certainmagic gifts, I am not able to do all I wish. And if the Lion Fairywere to know of my presence in her kingdom she would hasten to kill me.''But if you are a fairy, how was it that you were so nearly slain bythe crow?' said the queen, wrinkling her forehead.'Because the secret of my power lies in my little cap that is made ofrose leaves. but I had laid it aside for the moment, when that horriblecrow pounced upon me. Once it is on my head I fear nothing. But letme repeat. had it not been for you I could not have escaped death, andif I can do anything to help you, or soften your hard fate, you haveonly to tell me.''Alas,' sighed the queen, 'I have been commanded by the Lion Fairy tomake her a pasty out of the stings of bees, and, as far as I candiscover, there are none here. as how should there be, seeing there areno flowers for them to feed on? And, even if there were, how could Icatch them?''Leave it to me,' said the frog, 'I will manage it for you.' And,uttering a strange noise, she struck the ground thrice with her foot.In an instant six thousand frogs appeared before her, one of thembearing a little cap.'Cover yourselves with honey, and hop round by the beehives,' commandedthe frog, putting on the cap which her friend was holding in her mouth.And turning to the queen, he added:'The Lion Fairy keeps a store of bees in a secret place near to thebottom of the ten thousand steps leading into the upper world. Notthat she wants them for herself, but they are sometimes useful to herin punishing her victims. However, this time we will get the better ofher.'Just as she had finished speaking the six thousand frogs returned,looking so strange with bees sticking to every part of them that, sadas she felt, the poor queen could not help laughing. The bees were allso stupefied with what they had eaten that it was possible to drawtheir stings without hunting them. So, with the help of her friend,the queen soon made ready her pasty and carried it to the Lion Fairy.'Not enough pepper,' said the giantess, gulping down large morsels, inorder the hide the surprise she felt. 'Well, you have escaped thistime, and I am glad to find I have got a companion a little moreintelligent than the others I have tried. Now, you had better go andbuild yourself a house.'So the queen wandered away, and picking up a small axe which lay nearthe door she began with the help of her friend the frog to cut downsome cypress trees for the purpose. And not content with that the sixthousand froggy servants were told to help also, and it was not longbefore they had built the prettiest little cabin in the world, and madea bed in one corner of dried ferns which they fetched from the top ofthe ten thousand steps. It looked soft and comfortable, and the queenwas very glad to lie down upon it, so tired was she with all that hadhappened since the morning. Scarcely, however, had she fallen asleepwhen the lake monsters began to make the most horrible noises justoutside, while a small dragon crept in and terrified her so that sheran away, which was just what the dragon wanted!The poor queen crouched under a rock for the rest of the night, and thenext morning, when she woke from her troubled dreams, she was cheeredat seeing the frog watching by her.'I hear we shall have to build you another palace,' said she. 'Well,this time we won't go so near the lake.' And she smiled with her funnywide mouth, till the queen took heart, and they went together to findwood for the new cabin.The tiny palace was soon ready, and a fresh bed made of wild thyme,which smelt delicious. Neither the queen nor the frog said anythingabout it, but somehow, as always happens, the story came to the ears ofthe Lion Fairy, and she sent a raven to fetch the culprit.'What gods or men are protecting you?' she asked, with a frown. 'Thisearth, dried up by a constant rain of sulphur and fire, producesnothing, yet I hear that YOUR bed is made of sweet smelling herbs.However, as you can get flowers for yourself, of course you can getthem for me, and in an hour's time I must have in my room a nosegay ofthe rarest flowers. If not ! Now you can go.'The poor queen returned to her house looking so sad that the frog, whowas waiting for her, noticed it directly.'What is the matter?' said she, smiling.'Oh, how can you laugh!' replied the queen. 'This time I have to bringher in an hour a posy of the rarest flowers, and where am I to findthem? If I fail I know she will kill me.''Well, I must see if I can't help you,' answered the frog. 'The onlyperson I have made friends with here is a bat. She is a good creature,and always does what I tell her, so I will just lend her my cap, and ifshe puts it on, and flies into the world, she will bring back all wewant. I would go myself, only she will be quicker.'Then the queen dried her eyes, and waited patiently, and long beforethe hour had gone by the bat flew in with all the most beautiful andsweetest flowers that grew on the earth. The girl sprang up overjoyedat the sight, and hurried with them to the Lion Fairy, who was soastonished that for once she had nothing to say.Now the smell and touch of the flowers had made the queen sick withlonging for her home, and she told the frog that she would certainlydie if she did not manage to escape somehow.'Let me consult my cap,' said the frog. and taking it off she laid itin a box, and threw in after it a few sprigs of juniper, some capers,and two peas, which she carried under her right leg. she then shut downthe lid of the box, and murmured some words which the queen did notcatch.In a few moments a voice was heard speaking from the box.'Fate, who rules us all,' said the voice, 'forbids your leaving thisplace till the time shall come when certain things are fulfilled. But,instead, a gift shall be given you, which will comfort you in all yourtroubles.'And the voice spoke truly, for, a few days after, when the frog peepedin at the door she found the most beautiful baby in the world lying bythe side of the queen.'So the cap has kept its word,' cried the frog with delight. 'How softits cheeks are, and what tiny feet it has got! What shall we call it?'This was a very important point, and needed much discussion. Athousand names were proposed and rejected for a thousand silly reasons.One was too long, and one was too short. One was too harsh, andanother reminded the queen of somebody she did not like. but at lengthan idea flashed into the queen's head, and she called out:'I know! We will call her Muffette.''That is the very thing,' shouted the frog, jumping high into the air.and so it was settled.The princess Muffette was about six months old when the frog noticedthat the queen had begun to grow sad again.'Why do you have that look in your eyes?' she asked one day, when shehad come in to play with the baby, who could now crawl.The way they played their game was to let Muffette creep close to thefrog, and then for the frog to bound high into the air and alight onthe child's head, or back, or legs, when she always sent up a shout ofpleasure. There is no play fellow like a frog. but then it must be afairy frog, or else you might hurt it, and if you did somethingdreadful might happen to you. Well, as I have said, our frog wasstruck with the queen's sad face, and lost no time in asking her whatwas the reason.'I don't see what you have to complain of now. Muffette is quite welland quite happy, and even the Lion Fairy is kind to her when she seesher. What is it?''Oh! if her father could only see her!' broke forth the queen, claspingher hands. 'Or if I could only tell him all that has happened since weparted. But they will have brought him tidings of the broken carriage,and he will have thought me dead, or devoured by wild beasts. Andthough he will mourn for me long I know that well yet in time theywill persuade him to take a wife, and she will be young and fair, andhe will forget me.'And in all this the queen guessed truly, save that nine long years wereto pass before he would consent to put another in her place.The frog answered nothing at the time, but stopped her game and hoppedaway among the cypress trees. Here she sat and thought and thought,and the next morning she went back to the queen and said:'I have come, madam, to make you an offer. Shall I go to the kinginstead of you, and tell him of your sufferings, and that he has themost charming baby in the world for his daughter? The way is long, andI travel slowly. but, sooner or later, I shall be sure to arrive.Only, are you not afraid to be left without my protection? Ponder thematter carefully. it is for you to decide.''Oh, it needs no pondering,' cried the queen joyfully, holding up herclasped hands, and making Muffette do likewise, in token of gratitude.But in order that he may know that you have come from me I will sendhim a letter.' And pricking her arm, she wrote a few words with herblood on the corner of her handkerchief. Then tearing it off, she gaveit to the frog, and they bade each other farewell.It took the frog a year and four days to mount the ten thousand stepsthat led to the upper world, but that was because she was still underthe spell of a wicked fairy. By the time she reached the top, she wasso tired that she had to remain for another year on the banks of astream to rest, and also to arrange the procession with which she wasto present herself before the king. For she knew far too well what wasdue to herself and her relations, to appear at Court as if she was amere nobody. At length, after many consultations with her cap, theaffair was settled, and at the end of the second year after her partingwith the queen they all set out.First walked her bodyguard of grasshoppers, followed by her maids ofhonour, who were those tiny green frogs you see in the fields, each onemounted on a snail, and seated on a velvet saddle. Next came thewater rats, dressed as pages, and lastly the frog herself, in a litterborne by eight toads, and made of tortoiseshell. Here she could lie ather ease, with her cap on her head, for it was quite large and roomy,and could easily have held two eggs when the frog was not in it.The journey lasted seven years, and all this time the queen sufferedtortures of hope, though Muffette did her best to comfort her. Indeed,she would most likely have died had not the Lion Fairy taken a fancythat the child and her mother should go hunting with her in the upperworld, and, in spite of her sorrows, it was always a joy to the queento see the sun again. As for little Muffette, by the time she wasseven her arrows seldom missed their mark. So, after all, the years ofwaiting passed more quickly than the queen had dared to hope.The frog was always careful to maintain her dignity, and nothing wouldhave persuaded her to show her face in public places, or even along thehigh road, where there was a chance of meeting anyone. But sometimes,when the procession had to cross a little stream, or go over a piece ofmarshy ground, orders would be given for a halt. fine clothes werethrown off, bridles were flung aside, and grasshoppers, water rats,even the frog herself, spent a delightful hour or two playing in themud.But at length the end was in sight, and the hardships were forgotten inthe vision of the towers of the king's palace. and, one bright morning,the cavalcade entered the gates with all the pomp and circumstance of aroyal embassy. And surely no ambassador had ever created such asensation! Door and windows, even the roofs of houses, were filledwith people, whose cheers reached the ears of the king. However, hehad no time to attend to such matters just then, as, after nine years,he had at last consented to the entreaties of his courtiers, and was onthe eve of celebrating his second marriage.The frog's heart beat high when her litter drew up before the steps ofthe palace, and leaning forward she beckoned to her side one of theguards who were standing in his doorway.'I wish to see his Majesty,' said he.'His Majesty is engaged, and can see no one,' answered the soldier.'His Majesty will see ME,' returned the frog, fixing her eye upon him.and somehow the man found himself leading the procession along thegallery into the Hall of Audience, where the king sat surrounded by hisnobles arranging the dresses which everyone was to wear at his marriageceremony.All stared in surprise as the procession advanced, and still more whenthe frog gave one bound from the litter on to the floor, and withanother landed on the arm of the chair of state.'I am only just in time, sire,' began the frog. 'had I been a day lateryou would have broken your faith which you swore to the queen nineyears ago.''Her remembrance will always be dear to me,' answered the king gently,though all present expected him to rebuke the frog severely for herimpertinence. But know, Lady Frog, that a king can seldom do as hewishes, but must be bound by the desires of his subjects. For nineyears I have resisted them. now I can do so no longer, and have madechoice of the fair young maiden playing at ball yonder.''You cannot wed her, however fair she may be, for the queen your wifeis still alive, and sends you this letter written in her own blood,'said the frog, holding out the square of handkerchief as she spoke.'And, what is more, you have a daughter who is nearly nine years old,and more beautiful than all the other children in the world puttogether.'The king turned pale when he heard these words, and his hand trembledso that he could hardly read what the queen had written. Then hekissed the handkerchief twice or thrice, and burst into tears, and itwas some minutes before he could speak. When at length he found hisvoice he told his councillors that the writing was indeed that of thequeen, and now that he had the joy of knowing she was alive he could,of course, proceed no further with his second marriage. This naturallydispleased the ambassadors who had conducted the bride to court, andone of them inquired indignantly if he meant to put such an insult onthe princess on the word of a mere frog.'I am not a "mere frog," and I will give you proof of it,' retorted theangry little creature. And putting on her cap, she cried: Fairies thatare my friends, come hither!' And in a moment a crowd of beautifulcreatures, each one with a crown on her head, stood before her.Certainly none could have guessed that they were the snails, water rats, and grasshoppers from which she had chosen her retinue.At a sign from the frog the fairies danced a ballet, with whicheveryone was so delighted that they begged to have to repeated. but nowit was not youths and maidens who were dancing, but flowers. Thenthese again melted into fountains, whose waters interlaced and, rushingdown the sides of the hall, poured out in a cascade down the steps, andformed a river found the castle, with the most beautiful little boatsupon it, all painted and gilded.'Oh, let us go in them for a sail!' cried the princess, who had longago left her game of ball for a sight of these marvels, and, as she wasbent upon it, the ambassadors, who had been charged never to lose sightof her, were obliged to go also, though they never entered a boat ifthey could help it.But the moment they and the princess had seated themselves on the softcushions, river and boats vanished, and the princess and theambassadors vanished too. Instead the snails and grasshoppers andwater rats stood round the frog in their natural shapes.'Perhaps,' said she, 'your Majesty may now be convinced that I am afairy and speak the truth. Therefore lose no time in setting in orderthe affairs of your kingdom and go in search of your wife. Here is aring that will admit you into the presence of the queen, and willlikewise allow you to address unharmed the Lion Fairy, though she isthe most terrible creature that ever existed.'By this time the king had forgotten all about the princess, whom he hadonly chosen to please his people, and was as eager to depart on hisjourney as the frog was for him to go. He made one of his ministersregent of the kingdom, and gave the frog everything her heart coulddesire. and with her ring on his finger he rode away to the outskirtsof the forest. Here he dismounted, and bidding his horse go home, hepushed forward on foot.Having nothing to guide him as to where he was likely to find theentrance of the under  world, the king wandered hither and thither fora long while, till, one day, while he was resting under a tree, a voicespoke to him.'Why do you give yourself so much trouble for nought, when you mightknow what you want to know for the asking? Alone you will neverdiscover the path that leads to your wife.'Much startled, the king looked about him. He could see nothing, andsomehow, when he thought about it, the voice seemed as if it were partof himself. Suddenly his eyes fell on the ring, and he understood.'Fool that I was!' cried he. 'and how much precious time have I wasted?Dear ring, I beseech you, grant me a vision of my wife and mydaughter!' And even as he spoke there flashed past him a huge lioness,followed by a lady and a beautiful young maid mounted on fairy horses.Almost fainting with joy he gazed after them, and then sank backtrembling on the ground.'Oh, lead me to them, lead me to them!' he exclaimed. And the ring,bidding him take courage, conducted him safely to the dismal placewhere his wife had lived for ten years.Now the Lion Fairy knew beforehand of his expected presence in herdominions, and she ordered a palace of crystal to be built in themiddle of the lake of quicksilver. and in order to make it moredifficult of approach she let it float whither it would. Immediatelyafter their return from the chase, where the king had seen them, sheconveyed the queen and Muffette into the palace, and put them under theguard of the monsters of the lake, who one and all had fallen in lovewith the princess. They were horribly jealous, and ready to eat eachother up for her sake, so they readily accepted the charge. Somestationed themselves round the floating palace, some sat by the door,while the smallest and lightest perched themselves on the roof.Of course the king was quite ignorant of these arrangements, and boldlyentered the palace of the Lion Fairy, who was waiting for him, with hertail lashing furiously, for she still kept her lion's shape. With aroar that shook the walls she flung herself upon him. but he was on thewatch, and a blow from his sword cut off the paw she had put forth tostrike him dead. She fell back, and with his helmet still on and hisshield up, he set his foot on her throat.'Give me back the wife and the child you have stolen from me,' he said,'or you shall not live another second!'But the fairy answered:'Look through the window at that lake and see if it is in my power togive them to you.' And the king looked, and through the crystal wallshe beheld his wife and daughter floating on the quicksilver. At thatsight the Lion Fairy and all her wickedness was forgotten. Flingingoff his helmet, he shouted to them with all his might. The queen knewhis voice, and she and Muffette ran to the window and held out theirhands. Then the king swore a solemn oath that he would never leave thespot without taking them if it should cost him his life. and he meantit, though at the moment he did not know what he was undertaking.Three years passed by, and the king was no nearer to obtaining hisheart's desire. He had suffered every hardship that could beimagined nettles had been his bed, wild fruits more bitter than gallhis food, while his days had been spent in fighting the hideousmonsters which kept him from the palace. He had not advanced onesingle step, nor gained one solitary advantage. Now he was almost indespair, and ready to defy everything and throw himself into the lake.It was at this moment of his blackest misery that, one night, a dragonwho had long watched him from the roof crept to his side.'You thought that love would conquer all obstacles,' said he. 'well,you have found it hasn't! But if you will swear to me by your crownand sceptre that you will give me a dinner of the food that I nevergrow tired of, whenever I choose to ask for it, I will enable you toreach your wife and daughter.'Ah, how glad the king was to hear that! What oath would he not havetaken so as to clasp his wife and child in is arms? Joyfully he sworewhatever the dragon asked of him. then he jumped on his back, and inanother instant would have been carried by the strong wings into thecastle if the nearest monsters had not happened to awake and hear thenoise of talking and swum to the shore to give battle. The fight waslong and hard, and when the king at last beat back his foes anotherstruggle awaited him. At the entrance gigantic bats, owls, and crowsset upon him from all sides. but the dragon had teeth and claws, whilethe queen broke off sharp bits of glass and stabbed and cut in heranxiety to help her husband. At length the horrible creatures flewaway. a sound like thunder was heard, the palace and the monstersvanished, while, at the same moment no one knew how  the king foundhimself standing with his wife and daughter in the hall of his own home.The dragon had disappeared with all the rest, and for some years nomore was heard or thought of him. Muffette grew every day morebeautiful, and when she was fourteen the kings and emperors of theneighbouring countries sent to ask her in marriage for themselves ortheir sons. For a long time the girl turned a deaf ear to all theirprayers. but at length a young prince of rare gifts touched her heart,and though the king had left her free to choose what husband she would,he had secretly hoped that out of all the wooers this one might be hisson in law. So they were betrothed that some day with great pomp, andthen with many tears, the prince set out for his father's court,bearing with him a portrait of Muffette.The days passed slowly to Muffette, in spite of her brave efforts tooccupy herself and not to sadden other people by her complaints. Onemorning she was playing on her harp in the queen's chamber when theking burst into the room and clasped his daughter in his arms with anenergy that almost frightened her.'Oh, my child! my dear child! why were you ever born?' cried he, assoon as he could speak.'Is the prince dead?' faltered Muffette, growing white and cold.'No, no. but oh, how can I tell you!' And he sank down on a pile ofcushions while his wife and daughter knelt beside him.At length he was able to tell his tale, and a terrible one it was!There had just arrived at court a huge giant, as ambassador from thedragon by whose help the king had rescued the queen and Muffette fromthe crystal palace. The dragon had been very busy for many years past,and had quite forgotten the princess till the news of her betrothalreached his ears. Then he remembered the bargain he had made with herfather. and the more he heard of Muffette the more he felt sure shewould make a delicious dish. So he had ordered the giant who was hisservant to fetch her at once.No words would paint the horror of both the queen and the princess asthey listened to this dreadful doom. They rushed instantly to thehall, where the giant was awaiting them, and flinging themselves at hisfeet implored him to take the kingdom if he would, but to have pity onthe princess. The giant looked at them kindly, for he was not at allhard  hearted, but said that he had no power to do anything, and thatif the princess did not go with him quietly the dragon would comehimself.Several days went by, and the king and queen hardly ceased fromentreating the aid of the giant, who by this time was getting weary ofwaiting.'There is only one way of helping you,' he said at last, 'and that isto marry the princess to my nephew, who, besides being young andhandsome, has been trained in magic, and will know how to keep her safefrom the dragon.''Oh, thank you, thank you!' cried the parents, clasping his great handsto their breasts. 'You have indeed lifted a load from us. She shallhave half the kingdom for her dowry.' But Muffette stood up and thrustthem aside.'I will not buy my life with faithlessness,' she said proudly. 'and Iwill go with you this moment to the dragon's abode.' And all herfather's and mother's tears and prayers availed nothing to move her.The next morning Muffette was put into a litter, and, guarded by thegiant and followed by the king and queen and the weeping maids ofhonour, they started for the foot of the mountain where the dragon hadhis castle. The way, though rough and stony, seemed all too short, andwhen they reached the spot appointed by the dragon the giant orderedthe men who bore the litter to stand still.'It is time for you to bid farewell to your daughter,' said he. 'for Isee the dragon coming to us.'It was true. a cloud appeared to pass over the sun, for between themand it they could all discern dimly a huge body half a mile longapproaching nearer and nearer. At first the king could not believethat this was the small beast who had seemed so friendly on the shoreof the lake of quicksilver but then he knew very little of necromancy,and had never studied the art of expanding and contracting his body.But it was the dragon and nothing else, whose six wings were carryinghim forward as fast as might be, considering his great weight and thelength of his tail, which had fifty twists and a half.He came quickly, yes. but the frog, mounted on a greyhound, and wearingher cap on her head, went quicker still. Entering a room where theprince was sitting gazing at the portrait of his betrothed, she criedto him:'What are you doing lingering here, when the life of the princess isnearing its last moment? In the courtyard you will find a green horsewith three heads and twelve feet, and by its side a sword eighteenyards long. Hasten, lest you should be too late!'The fight lasted all day, and the prince's strength was well nighspent, when the dragon, thinking that the victory was won, opened hisjaws to give a roar of triumph. The prince saw his chance, and beforehis foe could shut his mouth again had plunged his sword far down hisadversary's throat. There was a desperate clutching of the claws tothe earth, a slow flagging of the great wings, then the monster rolledover on his side and moved no more. Muffette was delivered.After this they all went back to the palace. The marriage took placethe following day, and Muffette and her husband lived happy for everafter.