Once upon a time there was a knight thathad a Wyvern on his shield . but hewas none the better for that, as youshall hear.One day as he was riding in thecountry beyond Gloucester, he cameto a forest abounding in boars, stags,and every kind of wild beast. Now in agrovy lawn of this forest there was a little mount, risingin a point to the height of a man, on which knights andother hunters were used to ascend when fatigued withheat and thirst, to seek some relief. The nature of theplace   for it is a fairy place   is, however, such that whoeverascends the mount must leave his companions, andgo quite alone.As the knight rode in the wood, and came nigh thisfairy knoll, he met with a wood cutter and questioned himabout it. He must go thither alone, the wood cutter toldhim, and say, as if speaking to some other person,"I thirst!"Immediately there would appear a cup bearer in a richcrimson dress, with a shining face, bearing in his stretchedouthand a large horn, adorned with gold and gems, suchas was the custom among the most ancient English. Thecup was full of nectar, of an unknown but most deliciousflavour, and when it was drunk, all heat and wearinessfled from those who drank of it, so that they became readyto toil anew, instead of being tired from having toiled.Moreover, when the nectar was drunk, the cup beareroffered a towel to the drinker, to wipe his mouth with, andthen having done this courtesy, he waited neither for asilver penny for his services, nor for any question to beasked.Now the knight with the Wyvern laughed to himselfwhen he heard this."Who," thought he, "would be fool enough, havingwithin his grasp such a drinking horn, ever to let it goagain from him!"Later, that very same day, as he rode back hot and tiredand thirsty from his hunting, he bethought him of the fairy knolland the fairy horn. Sending away his followers, herepaired thither all alone, and did as the wood cutter hadtold him. He ascended the little hill, and said in a boldvoice, "I thirst!"Instantly there appeared, as the wood cutter had foretold,a cup bearer in a crimson dress, bearing in hishand a drinking horn. The horn was richly beset withprecious gems. and the knight was filled with envy atsight of it. No sooner had he seized upon it, and tastedof its delicious nectar, which glowed in his veins, than hedetermined when he had drained it to make off withthe horn. So, having gotten the horn, and drunk of itevery drop, instead of returning it to the cup bearer, as ingood manners he should have done, he stepped downfrom the knoll, and rudely made off with it in his hand.But, learn ye then what fate overtook this knight thatbore the Wyvern on his shield, but was without trueknighthood, and robbed the Fairy Horn. For the goodEarl of Gloucester, who had often quenched his thirst,and restored his strength, standing on the fairy knoll, whenhe heard that the wicked knight had destroyed the kindcustom of the horn, attacked the robber in his stronghold,and forthright slew him, and carried off the horn.But alas! The earl did not return it to the fairy cupbearer, butgave it to his master and lord, King Henry the Elder.Since then you may stand all day at the fairy knoll, andmany times cry, "I thirst!" but you may not taste of theFairy Horn.