The subjoined story is from the same source as "John Adroyns" and the " Maltman of Colebrook," and is at once more elaborate and more dramatic. It is in our estimation one of the drollest and best sustained narrations of the kind in our language. The plot is slightly involved, but it is managed and developed with rare skill and felicity. The treatment of this and other narrations and pleasantries in the "Hundred Merry Tales" (1526), tends to corroborate the notion which we broached in 1887, that Sir Thomas More had a share in compiling the volume, which combines with unusual literary merit a singular freedom from grossness, and was evidently under the inspiration of some masculine intellect with a precocious sense of humour and a descriptive faculty at that time almost unique. Like the preceding relation, the particulars here found were by no means improbably derived from an actual fact, although the writer doubtless permitted himself more or less license in the way of romantic embellishment. (Note by Hazlitt)There was a certain rich farmer in a village, who marvellously loved nuts, and planted trees of filberts and other nuts in his orchard, which through his whole life he cared for well. and when he died it appeared that his executors were to engage to bury with him in the grave a bag of nuts under pain of losing their executorship. So these executors did as they were bidden.It so happened that on the very night after the burial a miller in a white coat came to the dead man's garden to steal a bag of nuts. and as he went along he met with a tailor in a black coat, an unthrifty fellow, and discovered to him his scheme. The tailor confessed in his turn that that same night he planned stealing a sheep. It was determined between them that each should effect his purpose, and that they should meet, later on, in the church porch, the one who came first to tarry for the other.The miller gathered his nuts, and was the first to reach the porch. and while he waited for the tailor, he sat down and cracked nuts. It being about nine o'clock, the sexton came to ring the curfew. and when he looked, and saw a man in the porch dressed in white and cracking nuts, he weened that it was the farmer risen from his grave, cracking the nuts that had been buried along with him, and sped home in all haste and told a cripple, who lived in the same house what he had beheld. This cripple, when he heard the sexton so speak, reproved him, and said that, were it in his power to go to the place, he would conjure the spirit."By my faith, if thou art not afraid, I will carry thee on my back," said the sexton.And the sexton took the cripple on his back, and brought him to the churchyard. whereupon the miller in the porch, seeing one approach with something on his back, and weening it had been the tailor with the sheep, rose up, and came toward them, saying, "Is he fat? Is he fat?"The sexton, hearing these words, cast down the cripple, and said, "Fat or lean, take him as he is," and vanished. and the cripple by miracle was made whole, and ran as fast as the sexton, or faster.The miller, perceiving that there were two, and that one ran from the other, thought that one was the owner of the sheep and had espied the tailor stealing it. and lest somebody might have seen him steal the nuts out of the orchard, he left the shells behind him, and hied home to his mill.Presently came the tailor with the sheep on his back to seek him, as it had been arranged. and when he saw nought but nutshells, he concluded, as was indeed the truth, that the miller had gone home. So, throwing his sheep once more over his shoulder, he walked toward the mill.Meanwhile the sexton, when he ran away, went not to his own house, but to the parish priest, to whom he shewed how the spirit of the dead man was seated in the church porch eating nuts. and they both proceeded back together to the place, that the priest might conjure the spirit.The priest put on his stole and surplice, and took holy water with him. and as they went along, the tailor with the white sheep on his back met them, and in the dusk, taking the priest in his white surplice to be the miller in his white coat, shouted to him, "By God! I have him! I have him!" meaning the sheep which he had stolen.But the priest, seeing the tailor all in black and a white thing on his shoulder, imagined it to be the devil bearing away the spirit of the man that had just been buried, and ran away at full speed, the sexton following at his heels. The tailor judged that the two had been following him to take him for stealing the sheep, and thought that the miller might have got into trouble for stealing the nuts. So he went on toward the mill, to see if he could be of any use to the miller, and to hear what news.When he rapped at the mill door, the miller called out, "Who is there?"The tailor answered and said, "By God! I have caught one of them, and made him sure, and tied him fast by the legs."Then the miller feared that the tailor had been taken and secured by the constable, and that he had now come to fetch him away for stealing the nuts. wherefore he ran out at a backdoor as fast as ever he could. The tailor heard the door open, and going to the other side of the mill saw the miller posting off. and for a few moments he stood musing there with his sheep on his back.The parish priest and the sexton, who had been hiding near the mill for fear of the spirit of the dead man, presently caught sight of the black tailor and the white sheep again, and fled in dismay, and the priest, not knowing the ground, leapt into a ditch, where the mud almost reached his chin. Then the tailor, perceiving that the miller ran one way and the sexton another, and that the priest cried for assistance, and supposing that it was the constable, who had come at last to arrest him, cast down the sheep, and also disappeared.Thus each man suffered misfortune, because some had done what was wrong and others what was foolish, and all were afraid without cause. and a good deal was owing to the time when it happened, for it was in the night that all this strange game of errors was played.