Mr. H   R  , when he was alive, used to live a good deal in Dublin,and he was once a great while out of the country on account of the"ninety eight" business. But the servants kept on in the big house atRath   all the same as if the family was at home. Well, they used to befrightened out of their lives, after going to their beds, with thebanging of the kitchen door and the clattering of fire irons and thepots and plates and dishes. One evening they sat up ever so long keepingone another in heart with stories about ghosts and that, when whatwould you have of it? the little scullery boy that used to be sleepingover the horses, and could not get room at the fire, crept into the hothearth, and when he got tired listening to the stories, sorra fear him,but he fell dead asleep.Well and good. After they were all gone, and the kitchen raked up, hewas woke with the noise of the kitchen door opening, and the tramplingof an ass on the kitchen floor. He peeped out, and what should he seebut a big ass, sure enough, sitting on his curabingo and yawning beforethe fire. After a little he looked about him, and began scratching hisears as if he was quite tired, and says he, "I may as well begin firstas last." The poor boy's teeth began to chatter in his head, for, sayshe, "Now he's going to ate me". but the fellow with the long ears andtail on him had something else to do. He stirred the fire, and then hebrought in a pail of water from the pump, and filled a big pot that heput on the fire before he went out. He then put in his hand foot, Imean into the hot hearth, and pulled out the little boy. He let a roarout of him with the fright. but the pooka only looked at him, and thrustout his lower lip to show how little he valued him, and then he pitchedhim into his pew again.Well, he then lay down before the fire till he heard the boil coming onthe water, and maybe there wasn't a plate, or a dish, or a spoon on thedresser that he didn't fetch and put in the pot, and wash and dry thewhole bilin' of 'em as well as e'er a kitchen maid from that to Dublintown. He then put all of them up on their places on the shelves. and ifhe didn't give a good sweepin' to the kitchen, leave it till again. Thenhe comes and sits fornent the boy, let down one of his ears, and cockedup the other, and gave a grin. The poor fellow strove to roar out, butnot a dheeg 'ud come out of his throat. The last thing the pooka donewas to rake up the fire and walk out, giving such a slap o' the doorthat the boy thought the house couldn't help tumbling down.Well, to be sure, if there wasn't a hullabuloo next morning when thepoor fellow told his story! They could talk of nothing else the wholeday. One said one thing, another said another, but a fat, lazy scullerygirl said the wittiest thing of all. "Musha!" says she, "if the pookadoes be cleaning up everything that way when we are asleep, what shouldwe be slaving ourselves for doing his work?" "_Sha gu dheine_," saysanother, "them's the wisest words you ever said, Kauth. it's meeselfwon't contradict you."So said, so done. Not a bit of a plate or dish saw a drop of water thatevening, and not a besom was laid on the floor, and everyone went to bedsoon after sundown. Next morning everything was as fine as fine in thekitchen, and the lord mayor might eat his dinner off the flags. It wasgreat ease to the lazy servants, you may depend, and everything went onwell till a foolhardy gag of a boy said he would stay up one night andhave a chat with the pooka. He was a little daunted when the door wasthrown open and the ass marched up to the fire."And then, sir," says he at last, picking up courage, "if it isn'ttaking a liberty, might I ax who you are, and why you are so kind as todo half of the day's work for the girls every night?" "No liberty atall," says the pooka, says he: "I'll tell you, and welcome. I was aservant in the time of Squire R  's father, and was the laziest roguethat ever was clothed and fed, and done nothing for it. When my timecame for the other world, this is the punishment was laid on me to comehere and do all this labour every night, and then go out in the cold. Itisn't so bad in the fine weather. but if you only knew what it is tostand with your head between your legs, facing the storm from midnightto sunrise, on a bleak winter night." "And could we do anything foryour comfort, my poor fellow?" says the boy. "Musha, I don't know," saysthe pooka. "but I think a good quilted frieze coat would help me to keepthe life in me them long nights." "Why, then, in troth, we'd be theungratefullest of people if we didn't feel for you."To make a long story short, the next night the boy was there again. andif he didn't delight the poor pooka, holding a fine warm coat beforehim, it's no mather! Betune the pooka and the man, his legs was got intothe four arms of it, and it was buttoned down the breast and the belly,and he was so pleased he walked up to the glass to see how it looked."Well," says he, "it's a long lane that has no turning. I am muchobliged to you and your fellow servants. You have made me happy at last.Good night to you."So he was walking out, but the other cried, "Och! sure you're going toosoon. What about the washing and sweeping?" "Ah, you may tell the girlsthat they must now get their turn. My punishment was to last till I wasthought worthy of a reward for the way I done my duty. You'll see me nomore." And no more they did, and right sorry they were for having beenin such a hurry to reward the ungrateful pooka.PATRICK KENNEDY.