Once upon a time the king of the Goldland lost himself in a forest, andtry as he would he could not find the way out. As he was wandering downone path which had looked at first more hopeful than the rest he saw aman coming towards him.'What are you doing here, friend?' asked the stranger. 'darkness isfalling fast, and soon the wild beasts will come from their lairs toseek for food.''I have lost myself,' answered the king, 'and am trying to get home.''Then promise me that you will give me the first thing that comes out ofyour house, and I will show you the way,' said the stranger.The king did not answer directly, but after awhile he spoke: 'Why shouldI give away my BEST sporting dog. I can surely find my way out of theforest as well as this man.'So the stranger left him, but the king followed path after path forthree whole days, with no better success than before. He was almost indespair, when the stranger suddenly appeared, blocking up his way.'Promise you will give me the first thing that comes out of your houseto meet you?'But still the king was stiff necked and would promise nothing.For some days longer he wandered up and down the forest, trying firstone path, then another, but his courage at last gave way, and he sankwearily on the ground under a tree, feeling sure his last hour had come.Then for the third time the stranger stood before the king, and said:'Why are you such a fool? What can a dog be to you, that you should giveyour life for him like this? Just promise me the reward I want, and Iwill guide you out of the forest.''Well, my life is worth more than a thousand dogs,' answered the king,'the welfare of my kingdom depends on me. I accept your terms, sotake me to my palace.' Scarcely had he uttered the words than he foundhimself at the edge of the wood, with the palace in the dim distance. Hemade all the haste he could, and just as he reached the great gates outcame the nurse with the royal baby, who stretched out his arms to hisfather. The king shrank back, and ordered the nurse to take the babyaway at once.Then his great boarhound bounded up to him, but his caresses were onlyanswered by a violent push.When the king's anger was spent, and he was able to think what was bestto be done, he exchanged his baby, a beautiful boy, for the daughter ofa peasant, and the prince lived roughly as the son of poor people, whilethe little girl slept in a golden cradle, under silken sheets. At theend of a year, the stranger arrived to claim his property, and took awaythe little girl, believing her to be the true child of the king. Theking was so delighted with the success of his plan that he ordered agreat feast to be got ready, and gave splendid presents to the fosterparents of his son, so that he might lack nothing. But he did not dareto bring back the baby, lest the trick should be found out. The peasantswere quite contented with this arrangement, which gave them food andmoney in abundance.By and by the boy grew big and tall, and seemed to lead a happy life inthe house of his foster parents. But a shadow hung over him which reallypoisoned most of his pleasure, and that was the thought of the poorinnocent girl who had suffered in his stead, for his foster fatherhad told him in secret, that he was the king's son. And the princedetermined that when he grew old enough he would travel all over theworld, and never rest till he had set her free. To become king at thecost of a maiden's life was too heavy a price to pay. So one day he puton the dress of a farm servant, threw a sack of peas on his back, andmarched straight into the forest where eighteen years before his fatherhad lost himself. After he had walked some way he began to cry loudly:'Oh, how unlucky I am! Where can I be? Is there no one to show me theway out of the wood?'Then appeared a strange man with a long grey beard, with a leather baghanging from his girdle. He nodded cheerfully to the prince, and said:'I know this place well, and can lead you out of it, if you will promiseme a good reward.''What can a beggar such as I promise you?' answered the prince. 'I havenothing to give you save my life. even the coat on my back belongs to mymaster, whom I serve for my keep and my clothes.'The stranger looked at the sack of peas, and said, 'But you must possesssomething. you are carrying this sack, which seems to be very heavy.''It is full of peas,' was the reply. 'My old aunt died last night,without leaving money enough to buy peas to give the watchers, as isthe custom throughout the country. I have borrowed these peas from mymaster, and thought to take a short cut across the forest. but I havelost myself, as you see.''Then you are an orphan?' asked the stranger. 'Why should you not entermy service? I want a sharp fellow in the house, and you please me.''Why not, indeed, if we can strike a bargain?' said the other. 'I wasborn a peasant, and strange bread is always bitter, so it is the same tome whom I serve! What wages will you give me?''Every day fresh food, meat twice a week, butter and vegetables, yoursummer and winter clothes, and a portion of land for your own use.''I shall be satisfied with that,' said the youth. 'Somebody else willhave to bury my aunt. I will go with you!'Now this bargain seemed to please the old fellow so much that he spunround like a top, and sang so loud that the whole wood rang with hisvoice. Then he set out with his companion, and chattered so fast that henever noticed that his new servant kept dropping peas out of the sack.At night they slept under a fig tree, and when the sun rose startedon their way. About noon they came to a large stone, and here theold fellow stopped, looked carefully round, gave a sharp whistle, andstamped three times on the ground with his left foot. Suddenly thereappeared under the stone a secret door, which led to what looked likethe mouth of a cave. The old fellow seized the youth by the arm, andsaid roughly, 'Follow me!'Thick darkness surrounded them, yet it seemed to the prince as if theirpath led into still deeper depths. After a long while he thought he sawa glimmer of light, but the light was neither that of the sun nor ofthe moon. He looked eagerly at it, but found it was only a kind of palecloud, which was all the light this strange underworld could boast.Earth and water, trees and plants, birds and beasts, each was differentfrom those he had seen before. but what most struck terror into hisheart was the absolute stillness that reigned everywhere. Not a rustleor a sound could be heard. Here and there he noticed a bird sitting on abranch, with head erect and swelling throat, but his ear caught nothing.The dogs opened their mouths as if to bark, the toiling oxen seemedabout to bellow, but neither bark nor bellow reached the prince. Thewater flowed noiselessly over the pebbles, the wind bowed the tops ofthe trees, flies and chafers darted about, without breaking the silence.The old greybeard uttered no word, and when his companion tried to askhim the meaning of it all he felt that his voice died in his throat.How long this fearful stillness lasted I do not know, but the princegradually felt his heart turning to ice, his hair stood up likebristles, and a cold chill was creeping down his spine, when atlast oh, ecstasy! a faint noise broke on his straining ears, and thislife of shadows suddenly became real. It sounded as if a troop of horseswere ploughing their way over a moor.Then the greybeard opened his mouth, and said: 'The kettle is boiling.we are expected at home.'They walked on a little further, till the prince thought he heard thegrinding of a saw mill, as if dozens of saws were working together, buthis guide observed, 'The grandmother is sleeping soundly. listen how shesnores.'When they had climbed a hill which lay before them the prince saw inthe distance the house of his master, but it was so surrounded withbuildings of all kinds that the place looked more like a village oreven a small town. They reached it at last, and found an empty kennelstanding in front of the gate. 'Creep inside this,' said the master,'and wait while I go in and see my grandmother. Like all very oldpeople, she is very obstinate, and cannot bear fresh faces about her.'The prince crept tremblingly into the kennel, and began to regret thedaring which had brought him into this scrape.By and by the master came back, and called him from his hiding place.Something had put out his temper, for with a frown he said, 'Watchcarefully our ways in the house, and beware of making any mistake, or itwill go ill with you. Keep your eyes and ears open, and your mouth shut,obey without questions. Be grateful if you will, but never speak unlessyou are spoken to.'When the prince stepped over the threshold he caught sight of a maidenof wonderful beauty, with brown eyes and fair curly hair. 'Well!' theyoung man said to himself, 'if the old fellow has many daughters likethat I should not mind being his son in law. This one is just what Iadmire'. and he watched her lay the table, bring in the food, and takeher seat by the fire as if she had never noticed that a strange man waspresent. Then she took out a needle and thread, and began to darn herstockings. The master sat at table alone, and invited neither his newservant nor the maid to eat with him. Neither was the old grandmotheranywhere to be seen. His appetite was tremendous: he soon cleared allthe dishes, and ate enough to satisfy a dozen men. When at last he couldeat no more he said to the girl, 'Now you can pick up the pieces, andtake what is left in the iron pot for your own dinner, but give thebones to the dog.'The prince did not at all like the idea of dining off scraps, whichhe helped the girl to pick up, but, after all, he found that there wasplenty to eat, and that the food was very good. During the meal he stolemany glances at the maiden, and would even have spoken to her, butshe gave him no encouragement. Every time he opened his mouth for thepurpose she looked at him sternly, as if to say, 'Silence,' so he couldonly let his eyes speak for him. Besides, the master was stretched on abench by the oven after his huge meal, and would have heard everything.After supper that night, the old man said to the prince, 'For two daysyou may rest from the fatigues of the journey, and look about the house.But the day after to morrow you must come with me, and I will point outthe work you have to do. The maid will show you where you are to sleep.'The prince thought, from this, he had leave to speak, but his masterturned on him with a face of thunder and exclaimed:'You dog of a servant! If you disobey the laws of the house you willsoon find yourself a head shorter! Hold your tongue, and leave me inpeace.'The girl made a sign to him to follow her, and, throwing open a door,nodded to him to go in. He would have lingered a moment, for he thoughtshe looked sad, but dared not do so, for fear of the old man's anger.'It is impossible that she can be his daughter!' he said to himself,'for she has a kind heart. I am quite sure she must be the same girl whowas brought here instead of me, so I am bound to risk my head in thismad adventure.' He got into bed, but it was long before he fell asleep,and even then his dreams gave him no rest. He seemed to be surrounded bydangers, and it was only the power of the maiden who helped him throughit all.When he woke his first thoughts were for the girl, whom he found hard atwork. He drew water from the well and carried it to the house for her,kindled the fire under the iron pot, and, in fact, did everything thatcame into his head that could be of any use to her. In the afternoonhe went out, in order to learn something of his new home, and wonderedgreatly not to come across the old grandmother. In his rambles he cameto the farmyard, where a beautiful white horse had a stall to itself. inanother was a black cow with two white faced calves, while the cluckingof geese, ducks, and hens reached him from a distance.Breakfast, dinner, and supper were as savoury as before, and the princewould have been quite content with his quarters had it not been forthe difficulty of keeping silence in the presence of the maiden. On theevening of the second day he went, as he had been told, to receive hisorders for the following morning.'I am going to set you something very easy to do to morrow,' said theold man when his servant entered. 'Take this scythe and cut as muchgrass as the white horse will want for its day's feed, and clean out itsstall. If I come back and find the manger empty it will go ill with you.So beware!'The prince left the room, rejoicing in his heart, and saying to himself,'Well, I shall soon get through that! If I have never yet handled eitherthe plough or the scythe, at least I have often watched the countrypeople work them, and know how easy it is.'He was just going to open his door, when the maiden glided softly pastand whispered in his ear: 'What task has he set you?''For to morrow,' answered the prince, 'it is really nothing at all! Justto cut hay for the horse, and to clean out his stall!''Oh, luckless being!' sighed the girl. 'how will you ever get throughwith it. The white horse, who is our master's grandmother, is alwayshungry: it takes twenty men always mowing to keep it in food for oneday, and another twenty to clean out its stall. How, then, do you expectto do it all by yourself? But listen to me, and do what I tell you. Itis your only chance. When you have filled the manger as full as it willhold you must weave a strong plait of the rushes which grow among themeadow hay, and cut a thick peg of stout wood, and be sure that thehorse sees what you are doing. Then it will ask you what it is for, andyou will say, 'With this plait I intend to bind up your mouth so thatyou cannot eat any more, and with this peg I am going to keep you stillin one spot, so that you cannot scatter your corn and water all overthe place!' After these words the maiden went away as softly as she hadcome.Early the next morning he set to work. His scythe danced through thegrass much more easily than he had hoped, and soon he had enough to fillthe manger. He put it in the crib, and returned with a second supply,when to his horror he found the crib empty.Then he knew that without the maiden's advice he would certainly havebeen lost, and began to put it into practice. He took out the rusheswhich had somehow got mixed up with the hay, and plaited them quickly.'My son, what are you doing?' asked the horse wonderingly.'Oh, nothing!' replied he. 'Just weaving a chin strap to bind your jawstogether, in case you might wish to eat any more!'The white horse sighed deeply when it heard this, and made up its mindto be content with what it had eaten.The youth next began to clean out the stall, and the horse knew it hadfound a master. and by mid day there was still fodder in the manger,and the place was as clean as a new pin. He had barely finished when inwalked the old man, who stood astonished at the door.'Is it really you who have been clever enough to do that?' he asked. 'Orhas some one else given you a hint?''Oh, I have had no help,' replied the prince, 'except what my poor weakhead could give me.'The old man frowned, and went away, and the prince rejoiced thateverything had turned out so well.In the evening his master said, 'To morrow I have no special task to setyou, but as the girl has a great deal to do in the house you must milkthe black cow for her. But take care you milk her dry, or it may be theworse for you.''Well,' thought the prince as he went away, 'unless there is some trickbehind, this does not sound very hard. I have never milked a cow before,but I have good strong fingers.'He was very sleepy, and was just going toward his room, when the maidencame to him and asked: 'What is your task to morrow?''I am to help you,' he answered, 'and have nothing to do all day, exceptto milk the black cow dry.''Oh, you are unlucky,' cried she. 'If you were to try from morning tillnight you couldn't do it. There is only one way of escaping the danger,and that is, when you go to milk her, take with you a pan of burningcoals and a pair of tongs. Place the pan on the floor of the stall, andthe tongs on the fire, and blow with all your might, till the coals burnbrightly. The black cow will ask you what is the meaning of all this,and you must answer what I will whisper to you.' And she stood ontip toe and whispered something in his ear, and then went away.The dawn had scarcely reddened the sky when the prince jumped out ofbed, and, with the pan of coals in one hand and the milk pail in theother, went straight to the cow's stall, and began to do exactly as themaiden had told him the evening before.The black cow watched him with surprise for some time, and then said:'What are you doing, sonny?''Oh, nothing,' answered he. 'I am only heating a pair of tongs in caseyou may not feel inclined to give as much milk as I want.'The cow sighed deeply, and looked at the milkman with fear, but he tookno notice, and milked briskly into the pail, till the cow ran dry.Just at that moment the old man entered the stable, and sat down to milkthe cow himself, but not a drop of milk could he get. 'Have you reallymanaged it all yourself, or did somebody help you?''I have nobody to help me,' answered the prince, 'but my own poor head.'The old man got up from his seat and went away.That night, when the prince went to his master to hear what his nextday's work was to be, the old man said: 'I have a little hay stack outin the meadow which must be brought in to dry. To morrow you will haveto stack it all in the shed, and, as you value your life, be careful notto leave the smallest strand behind.' The prince was overjoyed to hearhe had nothing worse to do.'To carry a little hay rick requires no great skill,' thought he, 'andit will give me no trouble, for the horse will have to draw it in. I amcertainly not going to spare the old grandmother.'By and by the maiden stole up to ask what task he had for the next day.The young man laughed, and said: 'It appears that I have got to learnall kinds of farmer's work. To morrow I have to carry a hay rick, andleave not a stalk in the meadow, and that is my whole day's work!''Oh, you unlucky creature!' cried she. 'and how do you think you are todo it. If you had all the men in the world to help you, you could notclear off this one little hay rick in a week. The instant you havethrown down the hay at the top, it will take root again from below. Butlisten to what I say. You must steal out at daybreak to morrow andbring out the white horse and some good strong ropes. Then get on thehay stack, put the ropes round it, and harness the horse to the ropes.When you are ready, climb up the hay stack and begin to count one, two,three.The horse will ask you what you are counting, and you must be sure toanswer what I whisper to you.'So the maiden whispered something in his ear, and left the room. And theprince knew nothing better to do than to get into bed.He slept soundly, and it was still almost dark when he got up andproceeded to carry out the instructions given him by the girl. First hechose some stout ropes, and then he led the horse out of the stable androde it to the hay stack, which was made up of fifty cartloads, so thatit could hardly be called 'a little one.' The prince did all that themaiden had told him, and when at last he was seated on top of the rick,and had counted up to twenty, he heard the horse ask in amazement: 'Whatare you counting up there, my son?''Oh, nothing,' said he, 'I was just amusing myself with counting thepacks of wolves in the forest, but there are really so many of them thatI don't think I should ever be done.'The word 'wolf' was hardly out of his mouth than the white horse wasoff like the wind, so that in the twinkling of an eye it had reachedthe shed, dragging the hay stack behind it. The master was dumb withsurprise as he came in after breakfast and found his man's day's workquite done.'Was it really you who were so clever?' asked he. 'Or did some one giveyou good advice?''Oh, I have only myself to take counsel with,' said the prince, and theold man went away, shaking his head.Late in the evening the prince went to his master to learn what he wasto do next day.'To morrow,' said the old man, 'you must bring the white headed calf tothe meadow, and, as you value your life, take care it does not escapefrom you.'The prince answered nothing, but thought, 'Well, most peasants ofnineteen have got a whole herd to look after, so surely I can manageone.' And he went towards his room, where the maiden met him.'To morrow I have got an idiot's work,' said he. 'nothing but to takethe white headed calf to the meadow.''Oh, you unlucky being!' sighed she. 'Do you know that this calf is soswift that in a single day he can run three times round the world? Takeheed to what I tell you. Bind one end of this silk thread to the leftfore leg of the calf, and the other end to the little toe of your leftfoot, so that the calf will never be able to leave your side, whetheryou walk, stand, or lie.' After this the prince went to bed and sleptsoundly.The next morning he did exactly what the maiden had told him, and ledthe calf with the silken thread to the meadow, where it stuck to hisside like a faithful dog.By sunset, it was back again in its stall, and then came the master andsaid, with a frown, 'Were you really so clever yourself, or did somebodytell you what to do?''Oh, I have only my own poor head,' answered the prince, and the old manwent away growling, 'I don't believe a word of it! I am sure you havefound some clever friend!'In the evening he called the prince and said: 'To morrow I have no workfor you, but when I wake you must come before my bed, and give me yourhand in greeting.'The young man wondered at this strange freak, and went laughing insearch of the maiden.'Ah, it is no laughing matter,' sighed she. 'He means to eat you, andthere is only one way in which I can help you. You must heat an ironshovel red hot, and hold it out to him instead of your hand.'So next morning he wakened very early, and had heated the shovel beforethe old man was awake. At length he heard him calling, 'You lazy fellow,where are you? Come and wish me good morning.'But when the prince entered with the red hot shovel his master onlysaid, 'I am very ill to day, and too weak even to touch your hand. Youmust return this evening, when I may be better.'The prince loitered about all day, and in the evening went back to theold man's room. He was received in the most. friendly manner, and, tohis surprise, his master exclaimed, 'I am very well satisfied with you.Come to me at dawn and bring the maiden with you. I know you have longloved each other, and I wish to make you man and wife.'The young man nearly jumped into the air for joy, but, remembering therules of the house, he managed to keep still. When he told the maiden,he saw to his astonishment that she had become as white as a sheet, andshe was quite dumb.'The old man has found out who was your counsellor,' she said when shecould speak, 'and he means to destroy us both.' We must escape somehow,or else we shall be lost. Take an axe, and cut off the head of the calfwith one blow. With a second, split its head in two, and in its brainyou will see a bright red ball. Bring that to me. Meanwhile, I will dowhat is needful here.And the prince thought to himself, 'Better kill the calf than be killedourselves. If we can once escape, we will go back home. The peas which Istrewed about must have sprouted, so that we shall not miss the way.'Then he went into the stall, and with one blow of the axe killed thecalf, and with the second split its brain. In an instant the place wasfilled with light, as the red ball fell from the brain of the calf. Theprince picked it up, and, wrapping it round with a thick cloth, hid itin his bosom. Mercifully, the cow slept through it all, or by her criesshe would have awakened the master.He looked round, and at the door stood the maiden, holding a littlebundle in her arms.'Where is the ball?' she asked.'Here,' answered he.'We must lose no time in escaping,' she went on, and uncovered a tinybit of the shining ball, to light them on their way.As the prince had expected the peas had taken root, and grown into alittle hedge, so that they were sure they would not lose the path.As they fled, the girl told him that she had overheard a conversationbetween the old man and his grandmother, saying that she was a king'sdaughter, whom the old fellow had obtained by cunning from her parents.The prince, who knew all about the affair, was silent, though he wasglad from his heart that it had fallen to his lot to set her free. Sothey went on till the day began to dawn.The old man slept very late that morning, and rubbed his eyes till hewas properly awake. Then he remembered that very soon the couple wereto present themselves before him. After waiting and waiting till quitea long time had passed, he said to himself, with a grin, 'Well, they arenot in much hurry to be married,' and waited again.At last he grew a little uneasy, and cried loudly, 'Man and maid! whathas become of you?'After repeating this many times, he became quite frightened, but, callas he would, neither man nor maid appeared. At last he jumped angrilyout of bed to go in search of the culprits, but only found an emptyhouse, and beds that had never been slept in.Then he went straight to the stable, where the sight of the dead calftold him all. Swearing loudly, he opened the door of the third stallquickly, and cried to his goblin servants to go and chase the fugitives.'Bring them to me, however you may find them, for have them I must!' hesaid. So spake the old man, and the servants fled like the wind.The runaways were crossing a great plain, when the maiden stopped.'Something has happened!' she said. 'The ball moves in my hand, andI'm sure we are being followed!' and behind them they saw a black cloudflying before the wind. Then the maiden turned the ball thrice in herhand, and cried,'Listen to me, my ball, my ball.Be quick and change me into a brook,And my lover into a little fish.'And in an instant there was a brook with a fish swimming in it. Thegoblins arrived just after, but, seeing nobody, waited for a little,then hurried home, leaving the brook and the fish undisturbed. When theywere quite out of sight, the brook and the fish returned to their usualshapes and proceeded on their journey.When the goblins, tired and with empty hands, returned, their masterinquired what they had seen, and if nothing strange had befallen them.'Nothing,' said they. 'the plain was quite empty, save for a brook and afish swimming in it.''Idiots!' roared the master. 'of course it was they!' And dashing openthe door of the fifth stall, he told the goblins inside that they mustgo and drink up the brook, and catch the fish. And the goblins jumpedup, and flew like the wind.The young pair had almost reached the edge of the wood, when the maidenstopped again. 'Something has happened,' said she. 'The ball is movingin my hand,' and looking round she beheld a cloud flying towards them,large and blacker than the first, and striped with red. 'Those are ourpursuers,' cried she, and turning the ball three times in her hand shespoke to it thus:'Listen to me, my ball, my ball.Be quick and change us both.Me into a wild rose bush,And him into a rose on my stem.'And in the twinkling of an eye it was done. Only just in time too, forthe goblins were close at hand, and looked round eagerly for the streamand the fish. But neither stream nor fish was to be seen. nothing but arose bush. So they went sorrowing home, and when they were out of sightthe rose bush and rose returned to their proper shapes and walked allthe faster for the little rest they had had.'Well, did you find them?' asked the old man when his goblins came back.'No,' replied the leader of the goblins, 'we found neither brook norfish in the desert.''And did you find nothing else at all?''Oh, nothing but a rose tree on the edge of a wood, with a rose hangingon it.''Idiots!' cried he. 'Why, that was they.' And he threw open the door ofthe seventh stall, where his mightiest goblins were locked in. 'Bringthem to me, however you find them, dead or alive!' thundered he, 'for Iwill have them! Tear up the rose tree and the roots too, and don't leaveanything behind, however strange it may be!'The fugitives were resting in the shade of a wood, and were refreshingthemselves with food and drink. Suddenly the maiden looked up.'Something has happened,' said she. 'The ball has nearly jumped out ofmy bosom! Some one is certainly following us, and the danger is near,but the trees hide our enemies from us.'As she spoke she took the ball in her hand, and said:'Listen to me, my ball, my ball.Be quick and change me into a breeze,And make my lover into a midge.'An instant, and the girl was dissolved into thin air, while the princedarted about like a midge. The next moment a crowd of goblins rushed up,and looked about in search of something strange, for neither a rose bushnor anything else was to be seen. But they had hardly turned their backsto go home empty handed when the prince and the maiden stood on theearth again.'We must make all the haste we can,' said she, 'before the old manhimself comes to seek us, for he will know us under any disguise.'They ran on till they reached such a dark part of the forest that, ifit had not been for the light shed by the ball, they could not havemade their way at all. Worn out and breathless, they came at length toa large stone, and here the ball began to move restlessly. The maiden,seeing this, exclaimed:'Listen to me, my ball, my ball.Roll the stone quickly to one side,That we may find a door.'And in a moment the stone had rolled away, and they had passed throughthe door to the world again.'Now we are safe,' cried she. 'Here the old wizard has no more powerover us, and we can guard ourselves from his spells. But, my friend, wehave to part! You will return to your parents, and I must go in searchof mine.''No! no!' exclaimed the prince. 'I will never part from you. Youmust come with me and be my wife. We have gone through many troublestogether, and now we will share our joys. The maiden resisted his wordsfor some time, but at last she went with him.In the forest they met a woodcutter, who told them that in the palace,as well as in all the land, there had been great sorrow over the lossof the prince, and many years had now passed away during which they hadfound no traces of him. So, by the help of the magic ball, the maidenmanaged that he should put on the same clothes that he had been wearingat the time he had vanished, so that his father might know him morequickly. She herself stayed behind in a peasant's hut, so that fatherand son might meet alone.But the father was no longer there, for the loss of his son had killedhim. and on his deathbed he confessed to his people how he had contrivedthat the old wizard should carry away a peasant's child instead of theprince, wherefore this punishment had fallen upon him.The prince wept bitterly when he heard this news, for he had loved hisfather well, and for three days he ate and drank nothing. But on thefourth day he stood in the presence of his people as their new king,and, calling his councillors, he told them all the strange things thathad befallen him, and how the maiden had borne him safe through all.And the councillors cried with one voice, 'Let her be your wife, and ourliege lady.'And that is the end of the story.(Ehstnische Marchen.)