In a certain village there was a girl who was lazy and slothful, hatedworking, but would gossip and chatter away like anything! Well, she tookit into her head to invite the other girls to a spinning party. For in thevillages, as every one knows, it is the lazybones who gives thespinning feast, and the sweet toothed are those who go to it.Well, on the appointed night she got her spinners together. They spanfor her, and she fed them and feasted them. Among other things theychatted about was this   which of them all was the boldest?Says the lazybones: "I'm not afraid of anything!""Well then," say the spinners, "if you're not afraid, go past thegraveyard to the church, take down the holy picture from the door, andbring it here.""Good, I'll bring it. only each of you must spin me a distaff full."That was just her sort of notion: to do nothing herself, but to getothers to do it for her. Well, she went, took down the picture, andbrought it home with her. Her friends all saw that sure enough it was thepicture from the church. But the picture had to be taken back again, andit was now the midnight hour. Who was to take it? At length the lazybonessaid: "You girls go on spinning. I'll take it back myself. I'm not afraidof anything!"So she went and put the picture back in its place. As she was passingthe graveyard on her return, she saw a corpse in a white shroud, seated ona tomb. It was a moonlight night. everything was visible. She went up tothe corpse, and drew away its shroud from it. The corpse held its peace,not uttering a word. no doubt the time for it to speak had not come yet.Well, she took the shroud and went home."There!" says she, "I've taken back the picture and put it in itsplace. and, what's more, here's a shroud I took away from a corpse." Someof the girls were horrified. others didn't believe what she said, andlaughed at her.But after they had supped and lain down to sleep, all of a sudden thecorpse tapped at the window and said: "Give me my shroud! Give me myshroud!"The girls were so frightened they didn't know whether they were aliveor dead. But the lazybones took the shroud, went to the window, opened it,and said: "There, take it.""No," replied the corpse, "restore it to the place you took it from."Just then the cocks suddenly began to crow. The corpse disappeared.Next night, when the spinners had all gone home to their own houses, atthe very same hour as before, the corpse came, tapped at the window, andcried: "Give me my shroud!"Well, the girl's father and mother opened the window and offered himhis shroud. "No," says he, "let her take it back to the place she took itfrom.""Really now, how could one go to a graveyard with a corpse? What ahorrible idea!" she replied. Just then the cocks crew. The corpsedisappeared.Next day the girl's father and mother sent for the priest, told him thewhole story, and entreated him to help them in their trouble. "Couldn't aservice be performed?" they said.The priest reflected awhile. then he replied: "Please tell her to cometo church tomorrow."Next day the lazybones went to church. The service began, numbers ofpeople came to it. But just as they were going to sing the cherubim song,there suddenly arose, goodness knows whence, so terrible a whirlwind thatall the congregation fell flat on their faces. And it caught up that girl,and then flung her down on the ground. The girl disappeared from sight.nothing was left of her but her back hair.