Now as for my fourth brother, O Commander of the Faithful, Al Kuzal aswani, or the long necked Gugglet hight, from his brimmingover with words, the same who was blind of one eye, he became abutcher in Baghdad and he sold flesh and fattened rams. and greatmen and rich bought their meat of him, so that he amassed muchwealth and got him cattle and houses. He fared thus a long while,till one day, as he was sitting in his shop, there came up an oldman and long o' the beard, who laid down some silver and said,"Give me meat for this." He gave him his money s worth of fleshand the oldster went his ways. My brother examined the Shaykh'ssilver, and, seeing that the dirhams were white and bright, heset them in a place apart. The greybeard continued to return tothe shop regularly for five months, and my brother ceased not tolay up all the coin he received from him in its own box. At lasthe thought to take out the money to buy sheep. so he opened thebox and found in it nothing, save bits of white paper cut roundto look like coin. so he buffeted his face and criedaloud till the folk gathered about him, whereupon he told themhis tale which made them marvel exceedingly. Then he rose as washis wont, and slaughtering a ram hung it up inside his shop.after which he cut off some of the flesh, and hanging it outsidekept saying to himself, "O Allah, would the ill omened old fellowbut come!" And an hour had not passed before the Shaykh came withhis silver in hand. where upon my brother rose and caught hold ofhim calling out, "Come aid me, O Moslems, and learn my story withthis villain!" When the old man heard this, he quietly said tohim, "Which will be the better for thee, to let go of me or to bedisgraced by me amidst the folk?" "In what wilt thou disgraceme?" "In that thou sellest man's flesh for mutton!" "Thou liest,thou accursed!" "Nay, he is the accursed who hath a man hangingup by way of meat in his shop. If the matter be as thou sayest, Igive thee lawful leave to take my money and my life." Then theold man cried out aloud, "Ho, ye people! if you would prove thetruth of my words, enter this man's shop." The folk rushed in andfound that the ram was become a dead man hung up forsale. So they set upon my brother crying out, "O Infidel! Ovillain!". and his best friends fell to cuffing and kicking himand kept saying, "Dost thou make us eat flesh of the sons ofAdam?" Furthermore, the old man struck him on the eye and put itout. Then they carried the carcass, with the throat cut, beforethe Chief of the city watch, to whom the old man said, "O Emir,this fellow butchers men and sells their flesh for mutton and wehave brought him to thee. so arise and execute the judgments ofAllah (to whom be honour and glory!)." My brother would havedefended himself, but the Chief refused to hear him and sentencedhim to receive five hundred sticks and to forfeit the whole ofhis property. And, indeed, had it not been for that same propertywhich he expended in bribes, they would have surely slain him.Then the Chief banished him from Baghdad. and my brother faredforth at a venture, till he came to a great town, where hethought it best to set up as a cobbler. so he opened a shop andsat there doing what he could for his livelihood. One day, as hewent forth on his business, he heard the distant tramp of horsesand, asking the cause, was told that the King was going out tohunt and course. so my brother stopped to look at the fine suite.It so fortuned that the King's eye met my brother's. whereuponthe King hung down his head and said, "I seek refuge with Allahfrom the evil of this day!". and turned the reins of hissteed and returned home with all his retinue. Then he gave ordersto his guards, who seized my brother and beat him with a beatingso painful that he was well nigh dead. and my brother knew notwhat could be the cause of his maltreatment, after which hereturned to his place in sorriest plight. Soon afterwards he wentto one of the King's household and related what had happened tohim. and the man laughed till he fell upon his back and cried, "Obrother mine, know that the King cannot bear to look at amonocular, especially if he be blind of the right eye, in whichcase he doth not let him go without killing him." When my brotherheard this, he resolved to fly from that city. so he went forthfrom it to another wherein none knew him and there he abode along while. One day, being full of sorrowful thought for what hadbefallen him, he sallied out to solace himself. and, as he waswalking along, he heard the distant tramp of horses behind himand said, "The judgement of Allah is upon me!" and looked aboutfor a hiding place but found none. At last he saw a closed doorwhich he pushed hard: it yielded. and he entered a long galleryin which he took refuge, but hardly had he done so, when two menset upon him crying out, "Allah be thanked for having deliveredthee into our hands, O enemy of God! These three nights thou hastrobbed us of our rest and sleep, and verily thou hast made ustaste of the death cup." My brother asked, "O folk, what ailsyou?". and they answered, "Thou givest us the change and goestabout to disgrace us and plannest some plot to cut the throat ofthe house master! Is it not enough that thou hast brought him tobeggary, thou and thy fellows? But now give us up the knifewherewith thou threatenest us every night." Then they searchedhim and found in his waist belt the knife used for his shoeleather. and he said, "O people, have the fear of Allah beforeyour eyes and maltreat me not, for know that my story is a rightstrange!" "And what is thy story?" said they: so he told themwhat had befallen him, hoping they would let him go. however theypaid no heed to what he said and, instead of showing some regard,beat him grievously and tore off his clothes: then, finding onhis sides the scars of beating with rods, they said, "O accursed!these marks are the manifest signs of thy guilt!" They carriedhim before the Governor, whilst he said to himself, "I am nowpunished for my sins and none can deliver me save AllahAlmighty!" The Governor addressing my brother asked him, "Ovillain, what led thee to enter their house with intention tomurther?". and my brother answered, "I conjure thee by Allah, OEmir, hear my words and be not hasty in condemning me!" But theGovernor cried, "Shall we listen to the words of a robber whohath beggared these people, and who beareth on his back the scarof his stripes?" adding, "They surely had not done this to thee,save for some great crime." So he sentenced him to receive anhundred cuts with the scourge, after which they set him on acamel and paraded him about the city, proclaiming, "This is therequital and only too little to requite him who breaketh intopeople's houses." Then they thrust him out of the city, and mybrother wandered at random, till I heard what had befallen him.and, going in search of him, questioned him of his case. so heacquainted me with his story and all his mischances, and Icarried him secretly to the city where I made him an allowancefor his meat and drink. Then the Caliph gave ear to