Once upon a time there were a man and a woman, who had an only daughter.Now it happened that one of their sheep went astray, and they set out tolook for it, and searched and searched, each in n different part of thewood. Then the good wife met a witch, who said to her, "If you spit, youmiserable creature, if you spit into the sheath of my knife, or if you runbetween my legs, I shall change you into a black sheep."The woman neither spat, nor did she run between her legs, but yet thewitch changed her into a sheep. Then she made herself look exactly likethe woman, and called out to the good man, "Ho, old man, halloa! I havefound the sheep already!"The man thought the witch was really his wife, and he did not know thathis wife was the sheep. so he went home with her, glad at heart becausehis sheep was found. When they were safe at home the witch said to theman, "Look here, old man, we must really kill that sheep lest it run awayto the wood again."The man, who was a peaceable quiet sort of fellow, made no objections,but simply said, "Good, let us do so."The daughter, however, had overheard their talk, and she ran to theflock and lamented aloud, "Oh, dear little mother, they are going toslaughter you!""Well, then, if they do slaughter me," was the black sheep's answer,"eat you neither the meat nor the broth that is made of me, but gather allmy bones, and bury them by the edge of the field."Shortly after this they took the black sheep from the flock andslaughtered it. The witch made pease soup of it, and set it before thedaughter. But the girl remembered her mother's warning.She did not touch the soup, but she carried the bones to the edge ofthe field and buried them there. and there sprang up on the spot a birchtree   a very lovely birch tree.Some time had passed away   who can tell how long they might have beenliving there?   when the witch, to whom a child had been born in themeantime, began to take an ill will to the man's daughter, and to tormenther in all sorts of ways.Now it happened that a great festival was to be held at the palace, andthe king had commanded that all the people should be invited, and thatthis proclamation should be made:Come, people all!Poor and wretched, one and all!Blind and crippled though ye be,Mount your steeds or come by sea.And so they drove into the king's feast all the outcasts, and themaimed, and the halt, and the blind. In the good man's house, too,preparations were made to go to the palace. The witch said to the man, "Goyou on in front, old man, with our youngest. I will give the elder girlwork to keep her from being dull in our absence."So the man took the child and set out. But the witch kindled a fire onthe hearth, threw a potful of barleycorns among the cinders, and said tothe girl, "If you have not picked the barley out of the ashes, and put itall back in the pot before nightfall, I shall eat you up!"Then she hastened after the others, and the poor girl stayed at homeand wept. She tried to be sure to pick up the grains of barley, but shesoon saw how useless her labor was. and so she went in her sore trouble tothe birch tree on her mother's grave, and cried and cried, because hermother lay dead beneath the sod and could help her no longer. In the midstof her grief she suddenly heard her mother's voice speak from the grave,and say to her, "Why do you weep, little daughter?""The witch has scattered barleycorns on the hearth, and bid me pickthem out of the ashes," said the girl. "that is why I weep, dear littlemother.""Do not weep," said her mother consolingly. "Break off one of mybranches, and strike the hearth with it crosswise, and all will be putright."The girl did so. She struck the hearth with the birchen branch, and lo!the barleycorns flew into the pot, and the hearth was clean. Then she wentback to the birch tree and laid the branch upon the grave. Then her motherbade her bathe on one side of the stem, dry herself on another, and dresson the third. When the girl had done all that, she had grown so lovelythat no one on earth could rival her. Splendid clothing was given to her,and a horse, with hair partly of gold, partly of silver, and partly ofsomething more precious still. The girl sprang into the saddle, and rodeas swift as an arrow to the palace.As she turned into the courtyard of the castle the king's son came outto meet her, tied her steed to a pillar, and led her in. He never left herside as they passed through the castle rooms. and all the people gazed ather, and wondered who the lovely maiden was, and from what castle shecame. but no one knew her   no one knew anything about her. At thebanquet the prince invited her to sit next him in the place of honor. butthe witch's daughter gnawed the bones under the table. The prince did notsee her, and thinking it was a dog, he gave her such a push with his footthat her arm was broken. Are you not sorry for the witch's daughter? Itwas not her fault that her mother was a witch.Towards evening the good man's daughter thought it was time to go home.but as she went, her ring caught on the latch of the door, for the king'sson had had it smeared with tar. She did not take time to pull it off,but, hastily unfastening her horse from the pillar, she rode away beyondthe castle walls as swift as an arrow. Arrived at home, she took off herclothes by the birch tree, left her horse standing there, and hastened toher place behind the stove. In a short time the man and the woman camehome again too, and the witch said to the girl, "Ah! you poor thing, thereyou are to be sure! You don't know what fine times we have had at thepalace! The king's son carried my daughter about, but the poor thing felland broke her arm."The girl knew well how matters really stood, but she pretended to knownothing about it, and sat dumb behind the stove.The next day they were invited again to the king's banquet."Hey! old man," said the witch, "get on your clothes as quick as youcan. we are bidden to the feast. Take you the child. I will give the otherone work, lest she weary."She kindled the fire, threw a potful of hemp seed among the ashes, andsaid to the girl, "If you do not get this sorted, and all the seed backinto the pot, I shall kill you!"The girl wept bitterly. then she went to the birch tree, washed herselfon one side of it and dried herself on the other. and this time stillfiner clothes were given to her, and a very beautiful steed. She broke offa branch of the birch tree, struck the hearth with it, so that the seedsflew into the pot, and then hastened to the castle.Again the king's son came out to meet her, tied her horse to a pillar,and led her into the banqueting hall. At the feast the girl sat next himin the place of honor, as she had done the day before. But the witch'sdaughter gnawed bones under the table, and the prince gave her a push bymistake, which broke her leg   he had never noticed her crawling aboutamong the people's feet. She was very unlucky!The good man's daughter hastened home again betimes, but the king's sonhad smeared the door posts with tar, and the girl's golden circlet stuckto it. She had not time to look for it, but sprang to the saddle and rodelike an arrow to the birch tree. There she left her horse and her fineclothes, and said to her mother, "I have lost my circlet at the castle.the door post was tarred, and it stuck fast.""And even had you lost two of them," answered her mother, "I would giveyou finer ones."Then the girl hastened home, and when her father came home from thefeast with the witch, she was in her usual place behind the stove. Thenthe witch said to her, "You poor thing! what is there to see here comparedwith what we have seen at the palace? The king's son carried mydaughter from one room to another. he let her fall, 'tis true, and mychild's foot was broken."The man's daughter held her peace all the time, and busied herselfabout the hearth.The night passed, and when the day began to dawn, the witch awakenedher husband, crying, "Hi! get up, old man! We are bidden to the royalbanquet."So the old man got up. Then the witch gave him the child, saying, "Takeyou the little one. I will give the other girl work to do, else she willweary at home alone."She did as usual. This time it was a dish of milk she poured upon theashes, saying, "If you do not get all the milk into the dish again beforeI come home, you will suffer for it."How frightened the girl was this time! She ran to the birch tree, andby its magic power her task was accomplished. and then she rode away tothe palace as before. When she got to the courtyard she found the princewaiting for her. He led her into the hall, where she was highly honored.but the witch's daughter sucked the bones under the table, and crouchingat the people's feet she got an eye knocked out, poor thing! Now no oneknew any more than before about the good man's daughter, no one knewwhence she came. but the prince had had the threshold smeared with tar,and as she fled her gold slippers stuck to it. She reached the birch tree,and laying aside her finery, she said, "Alas I dear little mother, I havelost my gold slippers!""Let them be," was her mother's reply. "if you need them I shall giveyou finer ones."Scarcely was she in her usual place behind the stove when her fathercame home with the witch. Immediately the witch began to mock her,saying, "Ah! you poor thing, there is nothing for you to see here, andwe   ah: what great things we have seen at the palace! My littlegirl was carried about again, but had the ill luck to fall and get her eyeknocked out. You stupid thing, you, what do you know about anything?""Yes, indeed, what can I know?" replied the girl. "I had enough to doto get the hearth clean."Now the prince had kept all the things the girl had lost, and he soonset about finding the owner of them. For this purpose a great banquet wasgiven on the fourth day, and all the people were invited to the palace.The witch got ready to go too. She tied a wooden beetle on where herchild's foot should have been, a log of wood instead of an arm, and stucka bit of dirt in the empty socket for an eye, and took the child with herto the castle. When all the people were gathered together, the king's sonstepped in among the crowd and cried, "The maiden whose finger this ringslips over, whose head this golden hoop encircles, and whose foot thisshoe fits, shall be my bride."What a great trying on there was now among them all! The things wouldfit no one, however."The cinder wench is not here," said the prince at last. "go and fetchher, and let her try on the things."So the girl was fetched, and the prince was just going to hand theornaments to her, when the witch held him back, saying, "Don't give themtoher. she soils everything with cinders. give them to my daughter rather."Well, then the prince gave the witch's daughter the ring, and the womanfiled and pared away at her daughter's finger till the ring fitted. It wasthe same with the circlet and the shoes of gold. The witch would not allowthem to be handed to the cinder wench. she worked at her own daughter'shead and feet till she got the things forced on. What was to be done now?The prince had to take the witch's daughter for his bride whether he wouldor no. he sneaked away to her father's house with her, however, for he wasashamed to hold the wedding festivities at the palace with so strange abride. Some days passed, and at last he had to take his bride home to thepalace, and he got ready to do so. Just as they were taking leave, thekitchen wench sprang down from her place by the stove, on the pretext offetching something from the cowhouse, and in going by she whispered in theprince's ear as he stood in the yard, "Alas! dear prince, do not rob me ofmy silver and my gold."Thereupon the king's son recognized the cinder wench. so he took boththe girls with him, and set out. After they had gone some little way theycame to the bank of a river, and the prince threw the witch's daughteracross to serve as a bridge, and so got over with the cinder wench. Therelay the witch's daughter then, like a bridge over the river, and could notstir, though her heart was consumed with grief. No help was near, so shecried at last in her anguish, "May there grow a golden hemlock out of mybody! Perhaps my mother will know me by that token."Scarcely had she spoken when a golden hemlock sprang up from her, andstood upon the bridge.Now, as soon as the prince had got rid of the witch's daughter hegreeted the cinder wench as his bride, and they wandered together to thebirch tree which grew upon the mother's grave. There they received allsorts of treasures and riches, three sacks full of gold, and as muchsilver, and a splendid steed, which bore them home to the palace. Therethey lived a long time together, and the young wife bore a son to theprince. Immediately word was brought to the witch that her daughter hadborne a son   for they all believed the young king's wife to be thewitch's daughter."So, so," said the witch to herself. "I had better away with my giftfor the infant, then."And so saying she set out. Thus it happened that she came to the bankof the river, and there she saw the beautiful golden hemlock growing inthe middle of the bridge, and when she began to cut it down to take to hergrandchild, she heard a voice moaning, "Alas! dear mother, do not cut meso!""Are you here?" demanded the witch."Indeed I am, dear little mother," answered the daughter "They threw meacross the river to make a bridge of me."In a moment the witch had the bridge shivered to atoms, and then shehastened away to the palace. Stepping up to the young Queen's bed, shebegan to try her magic arts upon her, saying, "Spit, you wretch, on theblade of my knife. bewitch my knife's blade for me, and I shall change youinto a reindeer of the forest.""Are you there again to bring trouble upon me?" said the young woman.She neither spat nor did anything else, but still the witch changed herinto a reindeer, and smuggled her own daughter into her place as theprince's wife. But now the child grew restless and cried, because itmissed its mother's care. They took it to the court, and tried to pacifyit in every conceivable way, but its crying never ceased."What makes the child so restless?" asked the prince, and he went to awise widow woman to ask her advice."Ay, ay, your own wife is not at home," said the widow woman. "she isliving like a reindeer in the wood. you have the witch's daughter for awife now, and the witch herself for a mother in  law.""Is there any way of getting my own wife back from the wood again?"asked the prince."Give me the child," answered the widow woman. "I'll take it with metomorrow when I go to drive the cows to the wood. I'll make a rustlingamong the birch leaves and a trembling among the aspens   perhaps the boywill grow quiet when he hears it.""Yes, take the child away, take it to the wood with you to quiet it,"said the prince, and led the widow woman into the castle."How now? you are going to send the child away to the wood?" said thewitch in a suspicious tone, and tried to interfere.But the king's son stood firm by what he had commanded, and said,"Carry the child about the wood. perhaps that will pacify it."So the widow woman took the child to the wood. She came to the edge ofa marsh, and seeing a herd of reindeer there, she began all at once tosing:Little Bright eyes, little Redskin,Come nurse the child you bore!That bloodthirsty monster,That man eater grim,Shall nurse him, shall tend him no more.They may threaten and force as they will,He turns from her, shrinks from her still,and immediately the reindeer drew near, and nursed and tended the childthe whole day long. but at nightfall it had to follow the herd, and saidto the widow woman, "Bring me the child tomorrow, and again the followingday. after that I must wander with the herd far away to other lands."The following morning the widow woman went back to the castle to fetchthe child. The witch interfered, of course, but the prince said, "Take it,and carry it about in the open air. the boy is quieter at night, to besure, when he has been in the wood all day."So the widow took the child in her arms, and carried it to the marsh inthe forest. There she sang as on the preceding day:Little Bright eyes, little Redskin,Come nurse the child you bore!That bloodthirsty monster,That man eater grim,Shall nurse him, shall tend him no more.They may threaten and force as they will,He turns from her, shrinks from her still,and immediately the reindeer left the herd and came to the child, andtended it as on the day before. And so it was that the child throve, tillnot a finer boy was to be seen anywhere. But the king's son had beenpondering over all these things, and he said to the widow woman, "Is thereno way of changing the reindeer into a human being again?""I don't rightly know," was her answer. "Come to the wood with me,however. when the woman puts off her reindeer skin I shall comb her headfor her. whilst I am doing so you must burn the skin."Thereupon they both went to the wood with the child. scarcely were theythere when the reindeer appeared and nursed the child as before. Then thewidow woman said to the reindeer, "Since you are going far away tomorrow,and I shall not see you again, let me comb your head for the last time, asa remembrance of you."Good. the young woman stripped off the reindeer skin, and let the widowwoman do as she wished. In the meantime the king's son threw the reindeerskin into the fire unobserved."What smells of singeing here?" asked the young woman, and lookinground she saw her own husband. "Woe is me! you have burnt my skin. Why didyou do that?""To give you back your human form again.""Alack a day! I have nothing to cover me now, poor creature that I am!"cried the young woman, and transformed herself first into a distaff, theninto a wooden beetle, then into a spindle, and into all imaginable shapes.But all these shapes the king's son went on destroying till she stoodbefore him in human form again."Alas! wherefore take me home with you again," cried the young woman,"since the witch is sure to eat me up?""She will not eat you up," answered her husband. and they started forhome with the child.But when the witch wife saw them she ran away with her daughter, and ifshe has not stopped she is running still, though at a great age. And theprince, and his wife, and the baby lived happy ever afterwards.