A duck once arrived from Portugal, but there were some who saidshe came from Spain, which is almost the same thing. At all events,she was called the "Portuguese," and she laid eggs, was killed, andcooked, and there was an end of her. But the ducklings which creptforth from the eggs were also called "Portuguese," and about thatthere may be some question. But of all the family one only remained inthe duckyard, which may be called a farmyard, as the chickens wereadmitted, and the cock strutted about in a very hostile manner. "Heannoys me with his loud crowing," said the Portuguese duck. "but,still, he's a handsome bird, there's no denying that, although he'snot a drake. He ought to moderate his voice, like those little birdswho are singing in the lime trees over there in our neighbor's garden,but that is an art only acquired in polite society. How sweetly theysing there. it is quite a pleasure to listen to them! I call itPortuguese singing. If I had only such a little singing bird, I'd bekind and good as a mother to him, for it's in my nature, in myPortuguese blood."While she was speaking, one of the little singing birds cametumbling head over heels from the roof into the yard. The cat wasafter him, but he had escaped from her with a broken wing, and so cametumbling into the yard. "That's just like the cat, she's a villain,"said the Portuguese duck. "I remember her ways when I had childrenof my own. How can such a creature be allowed to live, and wanderabout upon the roofs. I don't think they allow such things inPortugal." She pitied the little singing bird, and so did all theother ducks who were not Portuguese."Poor little creature!" they said, one after another, as they cameup. "We can't sing, certainly. but we have a sounding board, orsomething of the kind, within us. we can feel that, though we don'ttalk about it.""But I can talk," said the Portuguese duck. "and I'll do somethingfor the little fellow. it's my duty." and she stepped into thewater trough, and beat her wings upon the water so strongly that thebird was nearly drowned by a shower bath. but the duck meant itkindly. "That is a good deed," she said. "I hope the others willtake example by it.""Tweet, tweet!" said the little bird, for one of his wings beingbroken, he found it difficult to shake himself. but he quiteunderstood that the bath was meant kindly, and he said, "You arevery kind hearted, madam." but he did not wish for a second bath."I have never thought about my heart," replied the Portugueseduck, "but I know that I love all my fellow creatures, except the cat,and nobody can expect me to love her, for she ate up two of myducklings. But pray make yourself at home. it is easy to make one'sself comfortable. I am myself from a foreign country, as you may seeby my feathery dress. My drake is a native of these parts. he's not ofmy race. but I am not proud on that account. If any one here canunderstand you, I may say positively I am that person.""She's quite full of 'Portulak,'" said a little common duck, whowas witty. All the common ducks considered the word "Portulak" agood joke, for it sounded like Portugal. They nudged each other, andsaid, "Quack! that was witty!"Then the other ducks began to notice the little bird. "ThePortuguese had certainly a great flow of language," they said to thelittle bird. "For our part we don't care to fill our beaks with suchlong words, but we sympathize with you quite as much. If we don't doanything else, we can walk about with you everywhere, and we thinkthat is the best thing we can do.""You have a lovely voice," said one of the eldest ducks. "itmust be great satisfaction to you to be able to give so muchpleasure as you do. I am certainly no judge of your singing so Ikeep my beak shut, which is better than talking nonsense, as othersdo.""Don't plague him so," interposed the Portuguese duck. "he requiresrest and nursing. My little singing bird do you wish me to prepareanother bath for you?""Oh, no! no! pray let me dry," implored the little bird."The water cure is the only remedy for me, when I am not well,"said the Portuguese. "Amusement, too, is very beneficial. The fowlsfrom the neighborhood will soon be here to pay you a visit. Thereare two Cochin Chinese amongst them. they wear feathers on their legs,and are well educated. They have been brought from a great distance,and consequently I treat them with greater respect than I do theothers."Then the fowls arrived, and the cock was polite enough to day tokeep from being rude. "You are a real songster," he said, "you do asmuch with your little voice as it is possible to do. but thererequires more noise and shrillness in any one who wishes it to beknown who he is."The two Chinese were quite enchanted with the appearance of thesinging bird. His feathers had been much ruffled by his bath, sothat he seemed to them quite like a tiny Chinese fowl. "He'scharming," they said to each other, and began a conversation withhim in whispers, using the most aristocratic Chinese dialect: "Weare of the same race as yourself," they said. "The ducks, even thePortuguese, are all aquatic birds, as you must have noticed. You donot know us yet, very few know us, or give themselves the troubleto make our acquaintance, not even any of the fowls, though we areborn to occupy a higher grade in society than most of them. But thatdoes not disturb us, we quietly go on in our own way among the rest,whose ideas are certainly not ours. for we look at the bright sideof things, and only speak what is good, although that is sometimesvery difficult to find where none exists. Except ourselves and thecock there is not one in the yard who can be called talented orpolite. It cannot even be said of the ducks, and we warn you, littlebird, not to trust that one yonder, with the short tail feathers,for she is cunning. that curiously marked one, with the crookedstripes on her wings, is a mischief maker, and never lets any one havethe last word, though she is always in the wrong. That fat duck yonderspeaks evil of every one, and that is against our principles. If wehave nothing good to tell, we close our beaks. The Portuguese is theonly one who has had any education, and with whom we can associate,but she is passionate, and talks too much about 'Portugal.'""I wonder what those two Chinese are whispering about,"whispered one duck to another. "they are always doing it, and itannoys me. We never speak to them."Now the drake came up, and he thought the little singing birdwas a sparrow. "Well, I don't understand the difference," he said. "itappears to me all the same. He's only a plaything, and if peoplewill have playthings, why let them, I say.""Don't take any notice of what he says," whispered the Portuguese."he's very well in matters of business, and with him business isplaced before everything. But now I shall lie down and have a littlerest. It is a duty we owe to ourselves that we may be nice and fatwhen we come to be embalmed with sage and onions and apples." So shelaid herself down in the sun and winked with one eye. she had a verycomfortable place, and felt so comfortable that she fell asleep. Thelittle singing bird busied himself for some time with his broken wing,and at last he lay down, too, quite close to his protectress. Thesun shone warm and bright, and he found out that it was a very goodplace. But the fowls of the neighborhood were all awake, and, totell the truth, they had paid a visit to the duckyard, simply andsolely to find food for themselves. The Chinese were the first toleave, and the other fowls soon followed them.The witty little duck said of the Portuguese, that the old ladywas getting quite a "doting ducky," All the other ducks laughed atthis. "Doting ducky," they whispered. "Oh, that's too 'witty!'" Andthen they repeated the former joke about "Portulak," and declared itwas most amusing. Then they all lay down to have a nap.They had been lying asleep for some time, when suddenlysomething was thrown into the yard for them to eat. It came downwith such a bang, that the whole company started up and clappedtheir wings. The Portuguese awoke too, and rushed over to the otherside: in so doing she trod upon the little singing bird."Tweet," he cried. "you trod very hard upon me, madam.""Well, then, why do you lie in my way?" she retorted, "you mustnot be so touchy. I have nerves of my own, but I do not cry 'tweet.'""Don't be angry," said the little bird. "the 'tweet' slipped outof my beak unawares."The Portuguese did not listen to him, but began eating as fastas she could, and made a good meal. When she had finished, she laydown again, and the little bird, who wished to be amiable, began tosing, "Chirp and twitter,The dew drops glitter,In the hours of sunny spring,I'll sing my best,Till I go to rest,With my head behind my wing.""Now I want rest after my dinner," said the Portuguese. "youmust conform to the rules of the house while you are here. I want tosleep now."The little bird was quite taken aback, for he meant it kindly.When madam awoke afterwards, there he stood before her with a littlecorn he had found, and laid it at her feet. but as she had not sleptwell, she was naturally in a bad temper. "Give that to a chicken," shesaid, "and don't be always standing in my way.""Why are you angry with me?" replied the little singing bird,"what have I done?""Done!" repeated the Portuguese duck, "your mode of expressingyourself is not very polite. I must call your attention to that fact.""It was sunshine here yesterday," said the little bird, "butto day it is cloudy and the air is close.""You know very little about the weather, I fancy," she retorted,"the day is not over yet. Don't stand there, looking so stupid.""But you are looking at me just as the wicked eyes looked when Ifell into the yard yesterday.""Impertinent creature!" exclaimed the Portuguese duck: "wouldyou compare me with the cat that beast of prey? There's not a drop ofmalicious blood in me. I've taken your part, and now I'll teach youbetter manners." So saying, she made a bite at the littlesinging bird's head, and he fell dead on the ground. "Now whateveris the meaning of this?" she said. "could he not bear even such alittle peck as I gave him? Then certainly he was not made for thisworld. I've been like a mother to him, I know that, for I've a goodheart."Then the cock from the neighboring yard stuck his head in, andcrowed with steam engine power."You'll kill me with your crowing," she cried, "it's all yourfault. He's lost his life, and I'm very near losing mine.""There's not much of him lying there," observed the cock."Speak of him with respect," said the Portuguese duck, "for he hadmanners and education, and he could sing. He was affectionate andgentle, and that is as rare a quality in animals as in those whocall themselves human beings."Then all the ducks came crowding round the little dead bird. Duckshave strong passions, whether they feel envy or pity. There wasnothing to envy here, so they all showed a great deal of pity, eventhe two Chinese. "We shall never have another singing bird againamongst us. he was almost a Chinese," they whispered, and then theywept with such a noisy, clucking sound, that all the other fowlsclucked too, but the ducks went about with redder eyes afterwards. "Wehave hearts of our own," they said, "nobody can deny that.""Hearts!" repeated the Portuguese, "indeed you have, almost astender as the ducks in Portugal.""Let us think of getting something to satisfy our hunger," saidthe drake, "that's the most important business. If one of our toys isbroken, why we have plenty more."