Once upon a time a king went out hunting, and after he had been huntingin the forest for a long time without finding anything, he found himselfsuddenly in an open plain, in which there was a huge lake, and in themidst of the lake he saw there a bird swimming about, the like of which hehad never seen before. It was a swan.Drawing his bow, he wanted to shoot it. To his surprise it spoke to himin a human voice, and said, "Do not kill me."So he tried his best to catch it, and succeeded. Pleased with thecapture of the bird, he carried it home alive, and gave it to the cook tokill it to make a meal of it for him. The cook was a Gypsy. She whettedher knife and went to the bird to cut its throat, when, to herastonishment, the bird turned three somersaults, and there stood beforeher a most beautiful maiden, more beautiful than she had ever seen before.So she ran to the king and told him what had happened.The king, who first thought that the cook was trying to play sometrickery with him, did not listen to her, but when she persisted in hertale, the king, driven by curiosity, went into the kitchen, and there hesaw a girl more beautiful than any that he had ever yet set his eyes upon.He asked her who she was, and she said she was the swan who wasswimming on the lake, that she had willfully gone away from her mother,who lived in the land of fairies, and that she had left two sistersbehind. So the king took her into the palace and married her. The Gypsy,who was a pretty wench, had thought that the king would marry her, andwhen she saw what had happened, she was very angry. But she managed toconceal her anger, and tried to be kind to the new queen, biding her timeall the while.The king and queen lived on for a while in complete happiness, andafter a time a child was born unto her.It so happened that the king had to go on a long journey, leaving thewife and child in the care of the Gypsy. One day the Gypsy came to thequeen, and said to her, "Why do you always sit in the palace? Come, let uswalk a little in the garden, to hear the birds singing, and to see thebeautiful flowers."The queen, who had no suspicion, took the advice of the Gypsy, and wentwith her for a walk into the garden. In the middle of the garden there wasa deep well, and the Gypsy said artfully to the young queen, "Just bendover the well, and look into the water below, and see whether your facehas remained so beautiful as it was on the first day when you turned intoa maiden from being a swan."The queen bent over the well to look down into the depths, and that waswhat the Gypsy was waiting for, for no sooner did the queen bend over thewell, than, getting hold of her by her legs, she threw her down headforemost into the well and drowned her.When the king came home and did not find the queen, he asked what hadhappened, and where she was. The Gypsy, who had meanwhile taken charge ofthe child, and looked after it very carefully, said to the king that theyoung queen, pining for her old home, had turned again into a swan andflown away.The king was deeply grieved when he heard this, but believing what theGypsy had told him, he thought that nothing could be done, and resignedhimself to the loss of his wife.They Gypsy woman looked after the child with great care, hoping therebythat she might win the king's love, and that he would marry her. A month,a year passed, and nothing was heard of the wife. And the king, seeing theapparent affection of the Gypsy for the child, decided at last to marryher, and fixed the day of the wedding.Out of the fountain into which the queen had been thrown, there grew awillow tree with three branches, one stem in the middle and two branchingout right and left. Not far from the garden there lived a man who had alarge flock of sheep. One day he sent his boy to lead the sheep to thefield. On his way the boy passed the king's garden with the well in themiddle of it.As the boy had left his flute at home, when he saw the willow hethought he would cut one of the branches and make a flute. Going into thegarden, he cut the middle stem, and made a flute of it. When he put it tohis lips, the flute by itself began to play as follows, "O boy, do notblow too hard, for my heart is aching for my little babe which I leftbehind in the cradle, and to suckle at the black breast of a Gypsy."When the boy heard what the flute was playing, not understanding whatit meant, he was greatly astonished, and ran home to tell his father whathad happened with the flute. The father, angry that he had left the sheepalone, scolded him, and took away the flute. Then he tried to see whetherthe boy had told the truth. As soon as he put it to his mouth the flutestarted playing the same tune as when the boy had tried to play it. Thefather said nothing, and wondering at the meaning of the words he hid theflute away in a cupboard.When the king's wedding day drew near, all the musicians of the kingdomwere invited to come and play at the banquet. Some of them passed the oldman's house, and hearing from them that they were going to play at theking's banquet, he remembered the marvelous flute, and asked whether hecould not go also, as he could play the flute so wonderfully well.His son   the young boy   had meanwhile gone into the garden in thehope of getting another flute, as the willow had three branches. So he cutone of the branches and made a flute of it. Now this flute did not play atall.When the old man came to the palace, there was much rejoicing andsinging. At last his turn came to play. As soon as he put the flute to hislips, the flute sang, "O man, do not blow so hard, for my heart aches formy little babe left in the cradle to be suckled by a black Gypsy."The Gypsy, who was the king's bride and sat at the head of the table,at once understood the saying of the flute, although she did not know whatthe flute had to do with the queen whom she had killed.The king, who marveled greatly at the flute and at the tune which itwas singing, took a gold piece and gave it to the man for the flute, andwhen he started blowing it, the flute began to sing, "O my dear husband,do not blow so hard, for my heart aches for our little babe whom I left inthe cradle to be sucked by the black Gypsy. Quickly, quickly, do away withthis cruel Gypsy, as otherwise you will lose your wife."The guests who were present marveled at the song, and no one understoodits meaning. The Gypsy, however, who understood full well what it meant,turning to the king, said, "Illustrious king, do not blow this flute andmake yourself ridiculous before your guests. Throw it into the fire."But the king, who felt offended by the words of the Gypsy, made hertake up the flute and blow. With great difficulty she submitted to theorder of the king, and she was quite justified in refusing to play it, forno sooner had she put the flute to her lips when it sang, "You enemy ofmine, do not blow hard, for my heart aches for my little babe left in thecradle to be suckled by you, you evil minded Gypsy. You have thrown meinto the well, and there put an end to my life, but God had pity on me,and he has preserved me to be again the true wife of this illustriousking."Furious at these words, the Gypsy threw the flute away with so muchforce that she thought it would break into thousands of splinters. But itwas not to be as she thought, for by this very throw the flute was changedinto a beautiful woman, more beautiful, indeed, than any had ever seenbefore. She was the very queen whom the Gypsy had thrown into the well.When the king saw her, he embraced her and kissed her, and asked herwhere she had been such a long time. She told him that she had slept atthe bottom of the well, into which she had been thrown by the Gypsy, whohad hoped to become the queen, and this would have come to pass had it notbeen for the boy cutting a flute out of the stem of the willow tree. "Andnow, punish the Gypsy as she deserves, otherwise your wife must leaveyou."When the king heard these words, he called the boy and asked himwhether he had cut himself a flute from the stem of the willow tree whichhad grown out of the well in the garden."It is so, O illustrious king," said the boy, "and may I be forgivenfor the audacity of going into the king's garden. I went and cut formyself a flute from the stem of the willow tree, and when I began to blowit, it played, 'Do not blow so hard, O boy, for my heart is aching withinme,' etc." Then he told him he had gone back to his father, who instead ofpraising him for the marvelous flute, gave him a good shaking. He had thengone a second time into the garden, and had cut off one of the branches tomake a flute, but this did not play like the first one. The king gave theboy a very rich gift, and he ordered the Gypsy to be killed.Some time afterwards, the queen came to the king and asked leave to goto her mother to tell her all that had happened to her, and to saygood bye for ever now, as she henceforth would live among human beings.The king reluctantly gave way. She then made three somersaults, and againbecame a swan, as she had been when the king found her for the first timeon the waters of the lake.Spreading her wings she flew far away until she reached the house ofher mother, who was quite alone. Her two sisters were not there. They hadleft her some time ago and no one knew whither they had gone. The youngqueen did not go into the house. She was probably afraid lest her motherwould not let her go back again, so she settled on the roof, and there shesang, "Remain in health, good mother mine, as the joy is no longer grantedyou to have me with you in your house, for you will only see me again whenI lose my kingdom, dear mother mine, not before, and not till then."And without waiting for the answer of her mother she returned backagain to her husband. Sitting on the window sill, she sang again, "Riseup, O husband, open the doors, wake up the servants and let them be awitness of my faithfulness to you, for since I have married you I haveleft my mother, and my sisters have gone away from me, and from a swan Ihave become a true wife to live in happiness with you. Henceforth I shallno longer be a swan, but you must take care of me that I do not go hencefrom you. I do not know whether my fate will be a better one by being aqueen in this world. O sweet water, how I long to bathe in you! And mywhite feathers, they will belong to my sisters. Since I am to leave themforever, and my mother with them, O Lord, what have I done? Shall I beable to live upon the earth, and shall I keep the kingdom? Thou, O Lord, Omerciful, hearken unto me and grant that this kingdom may not be in vain."And turning again head over heals, she became a woman as before, andentering the palace she lived there with her husband   the king   and ifthey have not died since, they are still alive.