There was once a fine gentleman, all of whose moveables were a boot jackand a hair comb: but he had the finest false collars in the world. andit is about one of these collars that we are now to hear a story.It was so old, that it began to think of marriage. and it happened thatit came to be washed in company with a garter."Nay!" said the collar. "I never did see anything so slender and sofine, so soft and so neat. May I not ask your name?""That I shall not tell you!" said the garter."Where do you live?" asked the collar.But the garter was so bashful, so modest, and thought it was a strangequestion to answer."You are certainly a girdle," said the collar. "that is to say an insidegirdle. I see well that you are both for use and ornament, my dear younglady.""I will thank you not to speak to me," said the garter. "I think I havenot given the least occasion for it.""Yes! When one is as handsome as you," said the collar, "that isoccasion enough.""Don't come so near me, I beg of you!" said the garter. "You look somuch like those men folks.""I am also a fine gentleman," said the collar. "I have a bootjack and ahair comb."But that was not true, for it was his master who had them: but heboasted."Don't come so near me," said the garter: "I am not accustomed to it.""Prude!" exclaimed the collar. and then it was taken out of thewashing tub. It was starched, hung over the back of a chair in thesunshine, and was then laid on the ironing blanket. then came the warmbox iron. "Dear lady!" said the collar. "Dear widow lady! I feel quitehot. I am quite changed. I begin to unfold myself. You will burn a holein me. Oh! I offer you my hand.""Rag!" said the box iron. and went proudly over the collar: for shefancied she was a steam engine, that would go on the railroad and drawthe waggons. "Rag!" said the box iron.The collar was a little jagged at the edge, and so came the longscissors to cut off the jagged part. "Oh!" said the collar. "You arecertainly the first opera dancer. How well you can stretch your legsout! It is the most graceful performance I have ever seen. No one canimitate you.""I know it," said the scissors."You deserve to be a baroness," said the collar. "All that I have is afine gentleman, a boot jack, and a hair comb. If I only had the barony!""Do you seek my hand?" said the scissors. for she was angry. and withoutmore ado, she CUT HIM, and then he was condemned."I shall now be obliged to ask the hair comb. It is surprising how wellyou preserve your teeth, Miss," said the collar. "Have you never thoughtof being betrothed?""Yes, of course! you may be sure of that," said the hair comb. "I AMbetrothed to the boot jack!""Betrothed!" exclaimed the collar. Now there was no other to court, andso he despised it.A long time passed away, then the collar came into the rag chest at thepaper mill. there was a large company of rags, the fine by themselves,and the coarse by themselves, just as it should be. They all had much tosay, but the collar the most. for he was a real boaster."I have had such an immense number of sweethearts!" said the collar."I could not be in peace! It is true, I was always a fine starched upgentleman! I had both a boot jack and a hair comb, which I never used!You should have seen me then, you should have seen me when I lay down!I shall never forget MY FIRST LOVE she was a girdle, so fine, so soft,and so charming, she threw herself into a tub of water for my sake!There was also a widow, who became glowing hot, but I left her standingtill she got black again. there was also the first opera dancer, shegave me that cut which I now go with, she was so ferocious! Myown hair comb was in love with me, she lost all her teeth from theheart ache. yes, I have lived to see much of that sort of thing. but Iam extremely sorry for the garter I mean the girdle that went into thewater tub. I have much on my conscience, I want to become white paper!"And it became so, all the rags were turned into white paper. but thecollar came to be just this very piece of white paper we here see,and on which the story is printed. and that was because it boasted soterribly afterwards of what had never happened to it. It would be wellfor us to beware, that we may not act in a similar manner, for we cannever know if we may not, in the course of time, also come into therag chest, and be made into white paper, and then have our whole life'shistory printed on it, even the most secret, and be obliged to run aboutand tell it ourselves, just like this collar.