1.In Pinno some people lived directly next to the churchyard, and whentheir daughter went to the spinning room in the evening she always had towalk through the churchyard. The young fellows teased her about this andtold her that something would happen to her if she continued to walk byherself through the churchyard. One evening when she was once againwalking through the churchyard on her way to the spinning room, she saw afigure sitting on a grave. She thought it was one of the young fellowstrying to frighten her, so she went up to the figure and ripped somethingoff its body. She ran with it to the spinning room and said, "You tried toplay a trick on me, but you failed! I took this away from the fellow whowas trying to trick me!"The other spinning girls said to her, "That is a burial shroud that youhave in your hands."She was frightened as she made her way home. The young fellows andgirls went with her, and nothing happened to her.In the night something knocked on her window, and a voice called out,"Give me my things. I'm freezing.!"She was afraid to give the things back, and there came another knock.Then she opened the window a little and reached the things out with astick. But outside no one took them.Every night the knocking and the calling came again. Then the girl wentwith her mother to the pastor and told him about it. The pastor said thathe and the teacher would go with her to take the things back to the sameplace where she had taken them. When all three were standing at the gravethey heard the girl cry, "My Jesus! My Jesus!"Suddenly the girl disappeared from their midst. They found only a fewtattered pieces of her clothing lying there next to them. The Evil One hadtorn the girl apart and taken her with him.2.In a village there was once a very audacious girl who wanted to havesomething from the churchyard, for such things were considered to be ofvalue. The girl went to the churchyard at twelve o'clock in the night.There she saw a white figure sitting on a grave. It had a white clothwrapped around its head. The girl unwrapped the cloth and took it withher.The next night the white figure came to the girl's bed and wanted thehave the cloth back. This happened every night. Then the frightened girlran to the pastor and told him about it. He said that she would have totake the cloth back to the place she had taken it from.The following night the girl went to the churchyard. The white figurewas sitting on the grave again, and she wrapped the cloth around its head.When the girl had done this she received a slap that knocked to theground, and she was dead.