It was at the time of the destruction of the First Temple. The cruelwar had laid Jerusalem desolate, and terrible was the suffering of thepeople.Rabbi Onias, mounted on a camel, was sorrowfully making his way towardthe unhappy city. He had traveled many days and was weary from lack ofsleep and faint with hunger, yet he would not touch the basket ofdates he had with him, nor would he drink from the water in a leatherbottle attached to the saddle."Perchance," he said, "I shall meet some one who needs them more thanI."But everywhere the land was deserted. One day, nearing the end of thejourney, he saw a man planting a carob tree at the foot of a hill."The Chaldeans," said the man, "have destroyed my beautiful vineyardsand all my crops, but I must sow and plant anew, so that the land maylive again."(: The sun was shining on a noble city of pinnaclesand minarets. (_P. 191_).)Onias passed sorrowfully on and at the top of the hill he stopped.Before him lay Jerusalem, not the once beautiful city with itshundreds of domes and minarets that caught the first rays of the suneach morning, but a vast heap of ruins and charred buildings. Oniasthrew himself on the ground and wept bitterly. No human being could hesee, and the sun was setting over what looked like a city of the dead."Woe, woe," he cried. "Zion, my beautiful Zion, is no more. Can itever rise again? Not in a hundred years can its glory be renewed."The sun sank lower as he continued to gaze upon the ruined city, anddarkness gathered over the scene. Utterly exhausted, Onias, laying hishead upon his camel on the ground, fell into a deep sleep.The silver moon shone serenely through the night and paled with thedawn, and the sun cast its bright rays on the sleeping rabbi. Darknessspread its mantle of night once more, and again the sun rose, andstill Onias slept. Days passed into weeks, the weeks merged intomonths, and the months rolled on until years went by. but Rabbi Oniasdid not waken.Seeds, blown by the winds and brought by the birds, dropped aroundhim, took root and grew into shrubs, and soon a thick hedgesurrounded him and screened him from all who passed. A date that hadfallen from his basket, took root also, and in time there rose abeautiful palm tree which cast a shade over the sleeping figure.And thus a hundred years rolled by.Suddenly, Onias moved, stretched himself and yawned. He was awakeagain. He looked around confused."Strange," he muttered. "Did I not fall asleep on a hill overlookingJerusalem last night? How comes it now that I am hemmed in by athicket and am lying in the shade of this noble date palm?"With great difficulty he rose to his feet."Oh, how my bones do ache!" he cried. "I must have overslept myself.And where is my camel?"Puzzled, he put his hand to his beard. Then he gave a cry of anguish."What is this? My beard is snow white and so long that it almostreaches to the ground."He sank down again, but the mound on which he sat was but a heap ofrubbish and collapsed under his weight. Beneath it were bones. Hastilyclearing away the rubbish, he saw the skeleton of a camel."This surely must be my camel," he said. "Can I have slept so long?The saddle bags have rotted, too. But what is this?" and he picked upthe basket of dates and the water bottle. The dates and the water werequite fresh."This must be some miracle," he said. "This must be a sign for me tocontinue my journey. But, alas, that Jerusalem should be destroyed!"He looked around and was more puzzled than ever. When he had fallenasleep the hill had been bare of vegetation. Now it was covered withcarob trees."I think I remember a man planting a carob tree yesterday," he said."But was it yesterday?"He turned in the other direction and gave a cry of astonishment. Thesun was shining on a noble city of glittering pinnacles and minarets,and around it were smiling fields and vineyards."Jerusalem still lives," he exclaimed. "Of a truth I have beendreaming dreaming that it was destroyed. Praise be to God that it wasbut a dream."With all speed he made his way across the plain to the city. Peoplelooked at him strangely and pointed him out to one another, and thechildren ran after him and called him names he did not understand.But he took no notice. Near the outskirts of the city he paused."Canst thou tell me, father," he said to an old man, "which is thehouse of Onias, the rabbi?""'Tis thy wit, or thy lack of it, that makes thee call me father,"replied the man. "I must be but a child compared with thee."Others gathered around and stared hard at Onias."Didst thou speak of Rabbi Onias?" asked one. "I know of one who saysthat was the name of his grandfather. I will bring him."He hastened away and soon returned with an aged man of about eighty."Who art thou?" Onias asked."Onias is my name," was the reply. "I am called so in honor of mysainted grandfather, Rabbi Onias, who disappeared mysteriously onehundred years ago, after the destruction of the First Temple.""A hundred years," murmured Onias. "Can I have slept so long?""By thy appearance, it would seem so," replied the other Onias. "TheTemple has been rebuilt since then.""Then it was not a dream," said the old man.They led him gently indoors, but everything was strange to him. Thecustoms, the manners, the habits of the people, their dress, theirtalk, was all different, and every time he spoke they laughed."Thou seemest like a creature from another world," they said. "Thouspeakest only of the things that have long passed away."One day he called his grandson."Lead me," he said, "to the place of my long sleep. Perchance I willsleep again. I am not of this world, my child. I am alone, a strangerhere, and would fain leave ye."Taking the dates and the bottle of water which still remained fresh,he made his way to where he had slept for a hundred years, and therehis prayer for peace was answered. He slept again, but not in thisworld will he awaken.(: He heard a cry of alarm and saw a huge stonefall on the soldier riding behind him. (_Page 201_).)