A king had three daughters. They were more beautiful than the youngwomen of today, and each had passed her sixteenth year of life. The kingthought about making one of his daughters queen, but he did not know whichone he should select over the other two.One day he summoned all three and said to them, "My dear children, I amnow old and frail, and every day is a gift. Before I die, I would like tobring everything in my realm into order and name one of you as the heir tomy kingdom. Now go out into the wide world, and the one of you who bringsback a singing rose shall inherit my throne, and she shall be queen overthe entire land."When the three daughters had heard this, they tearfully took leave oftheir old father, then   trusting their luck   set forth for foreignlands, each taking a different path.It happened that the youngest and most beautiful of them had to gothrough a dark pine forest. All kinds of birds were singing at the sametime. It was wonderful to listen to them. It began to get dark, the birdsflew to their nests, and after a while it became quiet as a mouse. Thensuddenly a bright, beautiful, loud tone sounded forth, such as theprincess had never heard before, neither from birds nor from humans, andshe immediately thought, "That can only be the singing rose."She hurried on in the direction that the marvelous sounds seemed to becoming from. She had not walked long before she saw a large, old fashionedcastle on a cliff. She eagerly climbed up to the castle and pulled severaltimes on the latch. Finally the gate opened with a creaking sound, and anold man with a long, ice gray beard looked out."What is your wish?" he grumpily asked the startled maiden."I would like a singing rose," she answered. "Do you have such a thingin your garden?""Yes indeed," answered the old man."What will you take for it, if I could get it from you?""You need give me nothing for the singing rose. You can have it today,but as payment, I will come to you in seven years and bring you back withme to this, my castle.""Just bring me quickly the valuable flower," shouted the maidenjoyfully, for she was thinking only about the singing rose and thekingdom, but not about what would happen after seven years.The old man went back into the castle, and returned soon with a full,glowing rose. It was singing so beautifully that the maiden's heart jumpedfor joy. She eagerly reached out her hand for it, and as soon as she hadthe flower in her hands she ran down the mountain like a deer.The old man called after her with a serious voice, "I will see you inseven years!"The maiden wandered the entire night through the dark woods with herrose. Her pleasure in the singing flower and the inherited kingdom causedher to forget all fear. The rose sang without pause the entire way. andthe louder and more beautifully it sang, the faster the princess hurriedon toward her homeland.She arrived home and told her father everything that had happened toher, and the rose sang beautifully. Immeasurable joy ruled in the castle,and the king gave one celebration after the other. Soon the two oldersisters returned. They had found nothing, and had had to return home emptyhanded. And now the youngest daughter, who had brought back the rose,became queen, although the old father continued to rule. The royal familylived beautiful, joyful days. Day after day and year after year slippedby.Finally the seventh year came to an end, and on the first day of theeighth year the old man from the castle appeared before the king anddemanded from him the one of his daughter who had brought home the singingrose. The king presented to him his oldest daughter, but the old manrejected her, shaking his head and growling, "She is not the right one."When the king saw that he could not get away with deception, he   witha bleeding heart   turned over the youngest and dearest of his children.The princess now had to go with the grumbling graybeard to his castle,from which she had once obtained the singing rose. The beautiful maidenwas very sad, for she had no one there except for her old master. Dayafter day she sorrowfully thought about her father and her sisters.In the castle there were other pleasures in abundance, but they did notcomfort her, for she did not have the company of her loved ones. Herthoughts were always in her homeland. Further, all the doors and chests inthe castle were locked, and the old man did not let her have access to asingle key.One day she learned   God knows from where!   that her oldest sisterwas to marry a neighboring prince, and that the wedding would take placein a few days. Disquieted, she went to the old man and asked him forpermission to attend her sister's wedding."Just go!" growled the old man. "But I am telling you in advance, donot laugh once during the entire wedding day. If you disobey my order, Iwill tear you into a thousand pieces. I myself will continually be by yourside, and if you as much as open your mouth to laugh, it will be over withyou. Take notice!"The princess thought that this would be easy to follow, and on theannounced day she appeared with the old graybeard at her sister's wedding.Joy ruled in the king's castle when they saw the long missing queenreturning. She was very happy and took advantage of the day, but she didnot forget the old man's order, and she did not once open her mouth tolaugh. That evening she had to take leave from her loved ones, and shesadly returned to the lonely castle with her companion. Her time ofmonotony began once again, and the poor princess was always glad when aday finally ended.Then the rumor came to her ears that the other sister would marry soon.This disquieted her again, and she asked the old man if she could notattend her second sister's wedding."Just go!" growled the old man." But this time you are not allowed tospeak a single word the entire day. I will go with you again and observeyou vigilantly.The princess thought that this would be easy to follow, and on theannounced day she appeared with the old graybeard at her sister's wedding.Joy ruled in the king's castle when they saw the long missing queenreturning. Everyone ran out to meet her. They greeted her and welcomed herand asked her about everything. But she pretended that she could not talk,and did not allow a single sound to escape from her beautiful lips. Butthis time she did not keep up her courage as well as she had the lasttime, and that evening when everyone was talking together until it washumming like a beehive, a little word slipped out. The old man quicklyjumped up, took her by the hand, and led her out of the hall and back tohis lonely castle.Here the princess had other things in great abundance, but she greatlymissed the company of her loved ones, and everything seemed terriblymonotonous to her.One day when she was sadly walking through the garden where the rosehad previously blossomed and sung, the old man came to her and said with aserious expression, "Your majesty, if tomorrow while it is striking twelveyou will cut off my head in three blows, then everything that you find inthe castle will be yours, and you will be free forever!"The princess took heart from the old man's speech and decided toattempt the risky deed.The next day   it was Saturday   the old man appeared a little beforetwelve o'clock and uncovered his neck. She drew the sword that she hadhung about her waist, and as the castle clock struck one she swung thesword once, then quickly again two more times. The old man's head rolledaway on the floor. But behold! Instead of blood, a key fell from the head.It opened all the chests and doors in the entire castle. There theprincess found many, many precious things, and she was rich and freeforever.