No longer ago than a week ... I had a house filled with every comfort, plenty of money, and a wife who was a miracle of beauty. One day this charming better half of myself, after having passed all the day in the bath, returned from it looking so clean, fresh, and rosy, that my head, where the hashish which I had been taking for the last hour and a half was breeding disorder, became on fire and was lost. My eyes grew intoxicated with my wife, as if I had then beheld her beauty for the first time, and my heart bounded like the holy waves of the Nile during a storm."Dear cousin," I cried, for she was my cousin as well as my wife, "how captivating you are today! I am over head and ears in love with you again!"At this instant the hashish suggested to me to divorce her immediately in order to contract a new marriage and taste again the bliss of a first union. No sooner said than done. I pronounced the prescribed phrase, and the next day I celebrated a new marriage with her. When the festivities were over, I conducted my relations and guests to the door, which, from absence of mind, I had forgotten to shut."Dear cousin," said my wife to me when we were alone, "go and shut the street door.""It would be strange indeed if I did," I replied. "Am I just made a bridegroom, clothed in silk, wearing a shawl and a dagger set with diamonds, and am I to go and shut the door? Why, my dear, you are crazy. go and shut it yourself!""Oh indeed!" she exclaimed. "am I, young, robed in a satin dress, with lace and precious stones, am I to go and shut the courtyard door? No, indeed, it is you who have become crazy, and not I. Come, let us make a bargain," she continued. "and let the first who speaks get up and bar the door.""Agreed," I replied, and straightway I became mute, and she too was silent, while we both sat down, dressed as we were in our nuptial attire, looking at each other, and seated on opposite sofas.We remained thus for one   two   hours. During this time thieves happening to pass by, and seeing the door open, entered and laid hold of whatever came to their hand. We heard footsteps in the house, but opened not our mouths. the robbers came even into our room, and saw us seated, motionless and indifferent to all that took place. They continued therefore their pillage, collecting together everything valuable, and even dragging away the carpets from beneath us. they then laid hands on our own persons, which they despoiled of every article worth taking, while we, in the fear of losing our wager, said not a word.Having thus cleared the house, the thieves departed quietly, but we remained on our seats, saying not a syllable. Towards morning a police officer came round on his tour of inspection, and, seeing our door opened, walked in. Having searched all the rooms and found no one, he entered the apartment where we were seated, and inquired the meaning of what he saw. Neither my wife nor I would condescend to reply. The officer became angry, and ordered our heads to be cut off.The executioner's sword was just about to perform its office, when my wife cried out, "Sir, he is my husband, spare him!""Oh, oh!" I exclaimed, overjoyed and clapping my hands, "you have lost the wager. go, shut the door."