Once upon a time, though it was not in my time or in your time, or inanybody else's time, there was a great king who had an only son, theprince and heir who was about to come of age. So the king sent round aherald who should blow his trumpet at every four corners where two roadsmet. And when the people came together he would call out, "O yes, O yes, Oyes, know ye that his grace the king will give on Monday sennight"   thatmeant seven nights or a week after   "a royal ball to which all maidensof noble birth are hereby summoned. and be it furthermore known unto youthat at this ball his highness the prince will select unto himself a ladythat shall be his bride and our future queen. God save the king."Now there was among the nobles of the king's court one who had marriedtwice, and by the first marriage he had but one daughter, and as she wasgrowing up her father thought that she ought to have someone to look afterher. So he married again, a lady with two daughters, and his new wife,instead of caring for his daughter, thought only of her own and favoredthem in every way. She would give them beautiful dresses but none to herstepdaughter who had only to wear the castoff clothes of the other two.The noble's daughter was set to do all the drudgery of the house, toattend the kitchen fire, and had naught to sleep on but the heap of cinderraked out in the scullery. and that is why they called her Cinder Maid.And no one took pity on her and she would go and weep at her mother'sgrave where she had planted a hazel tree, under which she sat.You can imagine how excited they all were when they heard the king'sproclamation called out by the herald. "What shall we wear, mother. whatshall we wear?" cried out the two daughters, and they all began talkingabout which dress should suit the one and what dress should suit theother, but when the father suggested that Cinder Maid should also have adress they all cried out, "What, Cinder Maid going to the king's ball?Why, look at her, she would only disgrace us all." And so her father heldhis peace.Now when the night came for the royal ball Cinder Maid had to help thetwo sisters to dress in their fine dresses and saw them drive off in thecarriage with her father and their mother. But she went to her ownmother's grave and sat beneath the hazel tree and wept and cried out:Tree o' mine, O tree o' me,With my tears I've watered thee.Make me a lady fair to see,Dress me as splendid as can be.And with that the little bird on the tree called out to her:Cinder Maid, Cinder Maid, shake the tree,Open the first nut that you see.So Cinder Maid shook the tree and the first nut that fell she took upand opened, and what do you think she saw?   a beautiful silk dress blueas the heavens, all embroidered with stars, and two little lovely shoon(shoes) made of shining copper. And when she had dressed herself the hazeltree opened and from it came a coach all made of copper with fourmilk white horses, with coachman and footmen all complete. And as shedrove away the little bird called out to her:Be home, be home ere mid o' nightOr else again you'll be a fright.When Cinder Maid entered the ballroom she was the loveliest of all theladies, and the prince, who had been dancing with her stepsisters, wouldonly dance with her. But as it came towards midnight Cinder Maidremembered what the little bird had told her and slipped away to hercarriage. And when the prince missed her he went to the guards at thepalace door and told them to follow the carriage. But Cinder Maid when shesaw this, called out:Mist behind and light before,Guide me to my father's door.And when the prince's soldiers tried to follow her there came such amist that they couldn't see their hands before their faces. So theycouldn't find which way Cinder Maid went.When her father and stepmother and two sisters came home after the ballthey could talk of nothing but the lovely lady: "Ah, would not you havelike to have been there?" said the sisters to Cinder Maid as she helpedthem to take off their fine dresses. "The was a most lovely lady with adress like the heavens and shoes of bright copper, and the prince woulddance with none but her. and when midnight came she disappeared and theprince could not find her. He is going to give a second ball in the hopethat she will come again. Perhaps she will not, and then we will have ourchance."When the time of the second royal ball came round the same thinghappened as before. the sisters teased Cinder Maid, saying "Wouldn't youlike to come with us?" and drove off again as before.And Cinder Maid went again to the hazel tree over her mother's graveand cried:Tree o' mine, O tree o' me,Shiver and shake, dear little tree.Make me a lady fair to see,Dress me as splendid as can be.And then the little bird on the tree called out:Cinder Maid, Cinder Maid, shake the tree,Open the first nut that you see.But this time she found a dress all golden brown like the earthembroidered with flowers, and her shoon were made of silver. and when thecarriage came from the tree, lo and behold, that was made of silver too,drawn by black horses with trappings all of silver, and the lace on thecoachman's and footmen's liveries was also of silver. and when Cinder Maidwent to the ball the prince would dance with none but her. and whenmidnight cam round she fled as before. But the prince, hoping to preventher running away, had ordered the soldiers at the foot of the staircase topour out honey on the stairs so that her shoes would stick in it. ButCinder Maid leaped from stair to stair and got away just in time, callingout as the soldiers tried to follow her:Mist behind and light before,Guide me to my father's door.And when her sisters got home they told her once more of the beautifullady that had come in a silver coach and silver shoon and in a dress allembroidered with flowers: "Ah, wouldn't you have like to have been there?"said they.Once again the prince gave a great ball in the hope that his unknownbe3auty would come to it. All happened as before. as soon as the sistershad gone Cinder Maid went to the hazel tree over her mother's grave andcalled out:Tree o' mine, O tree o' me,Shiver and shake, dear little tree.Make me a lady fair to see,Dress me as splendid as can be.And then the little bird appeared and said:Cinder Maid, Cinder Maid, shake the tree,Open the first nut that you see.And when she opened the nut in it was a dress of silk green as the seawith waves upon it, and her shoes this time were made of gold. and whenthe coach came out of the tree it was also made of gold, with goldtrappings for the horses and for the retainers. And as she drove off thelittle bird from the tree called out:Be home, be home ere mid o' nightOr else again you'll be a fright.Now this time, when Cinder Maid came to the ball, she was a desirous todance only with the prince as he with her, and so, when midnight cameround, she had forgotten to leave till the clock began to strike, one  two   three   four   five   six,   and then she began to run awaydown the stairs as the clock struck eight   nine   ten. But the princehad told his soldier to put tar upon the lower steps of the stairs. and asthe clock struck eleven her shoes stuck in the tar, and when she jumped tothe foot of the stairs one of her golden shoes was left behind, and justthen the clock struck TWELVE, and the golden coach with its horses andfootmen, disappeared, and the beautiful dress of Cinder Maid changed againinto her ragged clothes and she had to run home with only one golden shoe.You can imagine how excited the sister were when they came home andtold Cinder Maid all about it, how that the beautiful lady had come in agolden coach in a dress like the sea, with golden shoes, and how all haddisappeared at midnight except the golden shoe. "Ah, wouldn't you haveliked to have been there?" said they.Now when the prince found out that he could not keep his lady love nortrace where she had gone he spoke to his father and showed him the goldenshoe, and told him that he would never marry anyone but the maiden whocould wear that shoe. So the king, his father, ordered the herald to takeround the golden shoe upon a velvet cushion and to go to every fourcorners where two streets met and sound the trumpet and call out, "O yes,O yes, O yes, be it known unto you all that whatsoever lady of noble birthcan fit this shoe upon her foot shall become the bride of his highness theprince and our future queen. God save the king."And when the herald came to the house of Cinder Maid's father theeldest of her two stepsisters tried on the golden shoe, But it was muchtoo small for her, as it was for every other lady that had tried it up tothat time. but she went up into her room and with a sharp knife cut offone of her toes and part of her heel, and then fitted her foot into theshoe, and when she came down she shoed it to the herald, who sent amessage to the palace saying that the lady had been found who could wearthe golden shoe.Thereupon the prince jumped at once upon his horse and rode to thehouse of Cinder Maid's father. But when he saw the stepsister with thegolden shoe, "Ah," he said, "but this is not the lady.""But," she said, "you promised to marry the one that could wear thegolden shoe," And the prince could say nothing, but offered to take her onhis horse to his father's palace, for in those days ladies used to ride ona pillion at the back of the gentleman riding on horseback.Now as they were riding towards the palace her foot began to drip withblood, and the little bird from the hazel tree that had followed themcalled out:Turn and peep, turn and peep,There's blood within the shoe.A bit is cut from off the heelAnd a bit from off the toe.And the prince looked down and saw the blood streaming from her shoeand then he knew that this was not his true bride, and he rode back to thehouse of Cinder Maid's father. and then the second sister tried herchance. but when she found that her foot wouldn't fit the shoe she did thesame as her sister, but all happed as before. The little bird called out:Turn and peep, turn and peep,There's blood within the shoe.A bit is cut from off the heelAnd a bit from off the toe.And the prince took her back to her mother's house, and then he asked,"Have you no other daughter?" and the sisters cried out, "No, sir."But the father said, "Yes, I have another daughter.And the sisters cried out, "Cinder Maid, Cinder Maid, she could notwear that shoe."But the prince said, "As she is of noble birth she has a right to trythe shoe." So the herald went down to the kitchen and found cinder Maid.and when she saw her golden shoe she took it from him and put it on herfoot, which it fitted exactly. and then she took the other golden shoefrom underneath the cinders where she had hidden it and put that on too.Then the herald knew that she was the true bride of his master. and hertook her upstairs to where the prince was. when he saw her face, he knewthat she was the lady of his love. So he took her behind him upon hishorse. and as they rode to the palace the little bird from the hazel treecried out:Some cut their heel, and some cut their toe,But she sat by the fire who could wear the shoe.And so they were married and lived happy ever afterwards.