Once upon a time there lived, on the bank of a stream, a man and awoman who had a daughter. As she was an only child, and very prettybesides, they never could make up their minds to punish her for herfaults or to teach her nice manners. and as for work  she laughed inher mother's face if she asked her to help cook the dinner or to washthe plates. All the girl would do was to spend her days in dancing andplaying with her friends. and for any use she was to her parents theymight as well have no daughter at all.However, one morning her mother looked so tired that even the selfishgirl could not help seeing it, and asked if there was anything she wasable to do, so that her mother might rest a little.The good woman looked so surprised and grateful for this offer that thegirl felt rather ashamed, and at that moment would have scrubbed downthe house if she had been requested. but her mother only begged her totake the fishing net out to the bank of the river and mend some holesin it, as her father intended to go fishing that night.The girl took the net and worked so hard that soon there was not a holeto be found. She felt quite pleased with herself, though she had hadplenty to amuse her, as everybody who passed by had stopped and had achat with her. But by this time the sun was high overhead, and she wasjust folding her net to carry it home again, when she heard a splashbehind her, and looking round she saw a big fish jump into the air.Seizing the net with both hands, she flung it into the water where thecircles were spreading one behind the other, and, more by luck thanskill, drew out the fish.'Well, you are a beauty!' she cried to herself. but the fish looked upto her and said:'You had better not kill me, for, if you do, I will turn you into afish yourself!'The girl laughed contemptuously, and ran straight in to her mother.'Look what I have caught,' she said gaily. 'but it is almost a pity toeat it, for it can talk, and it declares that, if I kill it, it willturn me into a fish too.''Oh, put it back, put it back!' implored the mother. 'Perhaps it isskilled in magic. And I should die, and so would your father, ifanything should happen to you.''Oh, nonsense, mother. what power could a creature like that have overme? Besides, I am hungry, and if I don't have my dinner soon, I shallbe cross.' And off she went to gather some flowers to stick in herhair.About an hour later the blowing of a horn told her that dinner wasready.'Didn't I say that fish would be delicious?' she cried. and plungingher spoon into the dish the girl helped herself to a large piece. Butthe instant it touched her mouth a cold shiver ran through her. Herhead seemed to flatten, and her eyes to look oddly round the corners.her legs and her arms were stuck to her sides, and she gasped wildlyfor breath. With a mighty bound she sprang through the window and fellinto the river, where she soon felt better, and was able to swim to thesea, which was close by.No sooner had she arrived there than the sight of her sad faceattracted the notice of some of the other fishes, and they pressedround her, begging her to tell them her story.'I am not a fish at all,' said the new comer, swallowing a great dealof salt water as she spoke. for you cannot learn how to be a properfish all in a moment. 'I am not a fish at all, but a girl. at least Iwas a girl a few minutes ago, only ' And she ducked her head under thewaves so that they should not see her crying.'Only you did not believe that the fish you caught had power to carryout its threat,' said an old tunny. 'Well, never mind, that hashappened to all of us, and it really is not a bad life. Cheer up andcome with us and see our queen, who lives in a palace that is much morebeautiful than any your queens can boast of.'The new fish felt a little afraid of taking such a journey. but as shewas still more afraid of being left alone, she waved her tail in tokenof consent, and off they all set, hundreds of them together. Thepeople on the rocks and in the ships that saw them pass said to eachother:'Look what a splendid shoal!' and had no idea that they were hasteningto the queen's palace. but, then, dwellers on land have so littlenotion of what goes on in the bottom of the sea! Certainly the littlenew fish had none. She had watched jelly fish and nautilus swimming alittle way below the surface, and beautiful coloured sea weeds floatingabout. but that was all. Now, when she plunged deeper her eyes fellupon strange things.Wedges of gold, great anchors, heaps of pearl, inestimable stones,unvalued jewels  all scattered in the bottom of the sea! Dead men'sbones were there also, and long white creatures who had never seen thelight, for they mostly dwelt in the clefts of rocks where the sun'srays could not come. At first our little fish felt as if she wereblind also, but by and by she began to make out one object afteranother in the green dimness, and by the time she had swum for a fewhours all became clear.'Here we are at last,' cried a big fish, going down into a deep valley,for the sea has its mountains and valleys just as much as the land.'That is the palace of the queen of the fishes, and I think you mustconfess that the emperor himself has nothing so fine.''It is beautiful indeed,' gasped the little fish, who was very tiredwith trying to swim as fast as the rest, and beautiful beyond words thepalace was. The walls were made of pale pink coral, worn smooth by thewaters, and round the windows were rows of pearls. the great doors werestanding open, and the whole troop floated into the chamber ofaudience, where the queen, who was half a woman after all, was seatedon a throne made of a green and blue shell.'Who are you, and where do you come from?' said she to the little fish,whom the others had pushed in front. And in a low, trembling voice,the visitor told her story.'I was once a girl too,' answered the queen, when the fish had ended.'and my father was the king of a great country. A husband was foundfor me, and on my wedding day my mother placed her crown on my head andtold me that as long as I wore it I should likewise be queen. For manymonths I was as happy as a girl could be, especially when I had alittle son to play with. But, one morning, when I was walking in mygardens, there came a giant and snatched the crown from my head.Holding me fast, he told me that he intended to give the crown to hisdaughter, and to enchant my husband the prince, so that he should notknow the difference between us. Since then she has filled my place andbeen queen in my stead. As for me, I was so miserable that I threwmyself into the sea, and my ladies, who loved me, declared that theywould die too. but, instead of dying, some wizard, who pitied my fate,turned us all into fishes, though he allowed me to keep the face andbody of a woman. And fished we must remain till someone brings me backmy crown again!''I will bring it back if you tell me what to do!' cried the littlefish, who would have promised anything that was likely to carry her upto earth again. And the queen answered:'Yes, I will tell you what to do.'She sat silent for a moment, and then went on:'There is no danger if you will only follow my counsel. and first youmust return to earth, and go up to the top of a high mountain, wherethe giant has built his castle. You will find him sitting on the stepsweeping for his daughter, who has just died while the prince was awayhunting. At the last she sent her father my crown by a faithfulservant. But I warn you to be careful, for if he sees you he may killyou. Therefore I will give you the power to change yourself into anycreature that may help you best. You have only to strike yourforehead, and call out its name.'This time the journey to land seemed much shorter than before, and whenonce the fish reached the shore she struck her forehead sharply withher tail, and cried:'Deer, come to me!'In a moment the small, slimy body disappeared, and in its place stood abeautiful beast with branching horns and slender legs, quivering withlonging to be gone. Throwing back her head and snuffing the air, shebroke into a run, leaping easily over the rivers and walls that stoodin her way.It happened that the king's son had been hunting since daybreak, buthad killed nothing, and when the deer crossed his path as he wasresting under a tree he determined to have her. He flung himself onhis horse, which went like the wind, and as the prince had often huntedthe forest before, and knew all the short cuts, he at last came up withthe panting beast.'By your favour let me go, and do not kill me,' said the deer, turningto the prince with tears in her eyes, 'for I have far to run and muchto do.' And as the prince, struck dumb with surprise, only looked ather, the deer cleared the next wall and was soon out of sight.'That can't really be a deer,' thought the prince to himself, reiningin his horse and not attempting to follow her. 'No deer ever had eyeslike that. It must be an enchanted maiden, and I will marry her and noother.' So, turning his horse's head, he rode slowly back to hispalace.The deer reached the giant's castle quite out of breath, and her heartsank as she gazed at the tall, smooth walls which surrounded it. Thenshe plucked up courage and cried:'Ant, come to me!' And in a moment the branching horns and beautifulshape had vanished, and a tiny brown ant, invisible to all who did notlook closely, was climbing up the walls.It was wonderful how fast she went, that little creature! The wallmust have appeared miles high in comparison with her own body. yet, inless time than would have seemed possible, she was over the top anddown in the courtyard on the other side. Here she paused to considerwhat had best be done next, and looking about her she saw that one ofthe walls had a tall tree growing by it, and in the corner was a windowvery nearly on a level with the highest branches of the tree.'Monkey, come to me!' cried the ant. and before you could turn round amonkey was swinging herself from the topmost branches into the roomwhere the giant lay snoring.'Perhaps he will be so frightened at the sight of me that he may die offear, and I shall never get the crown,' thought the monkey. 'I hadbetter become something else.' And she called softly: 'Parrot, come tome!'Then a pink and grey parrot hopped up to the giant, who by this timewas stretching himself and giving yawns which shook the castle. Theparrot waited a little, until he was really awake, and then she saidboldly that she had been sent to take away the crown, which was not hisany longer, now his daughter the queen was dead.On hearing these words the giant leapt out of bed with an angry roar,and sprang at the parrot in order to wring her neck with his greathands. But the bird was too quick for him, and, flying behind hisback, begged the giant to have patience, as her death would be of nouse to him.'That is true,' answered the giant. 'but I am not so foolish as to giveyou that crown for nothing. Let me think what I will have inexchange!' And he scratched his huge head for several minutes, forgiants' minds always move slowly.'Ah, yes, that will do!' exclaimed the giant at last, his facebrightening. 'You shall have the crown if you will bring me a collarof blue stones from the Arch of St. Martin, in the Great City.'Now when the parrot had been a girl she had often heard of thiswonderful arch and the precious stones and marbles that had been letinto it. It sounded as if it would be a very hard thing to get themaway from the building of which they formed a part, but all had gonewell with her so far, and at any rate she could but try. So she bowedto the giant, and made her way back to the window where the giant couldnot see her. Then she called quickly:'Eagle, come to me!'Before she had even reached the tree she felt herself borne up onstrong wings ready to carry her to the clouds if she wished to gothere, and seeming a mere speck in the sky, she was swept along tillshe beheld the Arch of St. Martin far below, with the rays of the sunshining on it. Then she swooped down, and, hiding herself behind abuttress so that she could not be detected from below, she set herselfto dig out the nearest blue stones with her beak. It was even harderwork than she had expected. but at last it was done, and hope arose inher heart. She next drew out a piece of string that she had foundhanging from a tree, and sitting down to rest strung the stonestogether. When the necklace was finished she hung it round her neck,and called: 'Parrot, come to me!' And a little later the pink and greyparrot stood before the giant.'Here is the necklace you asked for,' said the parrot. And the eyes ofthe giant glistened as he took the heap of blue stones in his hand.But for all that he was not minded to give up the crown.'They are hardly as blue as I expected,' he grumbled, though the parrotknew as well as he did that he was not speaking the truth. 'so you mustbring me something else in exchange for the crown you covet so much.If you fail it will cost you not only the crown but you life also.''What is it you want now?' asked the parrot. and the giant answered:'If I give you my crown I must have another still more beautiful. andthis time you shall bring me a crown of stars.'The parrot turned away, and as soon as she was outside she murmured:'Toad, come to me!' And sure enough a toad she was, and off she set insearch of the starry crown.She had not gone far before she came to a clear pool, in which thestars were reflected so brightly that they looked quite real to touchand handle. Stooping down she filled a bag she was carrying with theshining water and, returning to the castle, wove a crown out of thereflected stars. Then she cried as before:'Parrot, come to me!' And in the shape of a parrot she entered thepresence of the giant.'Here is the crown you asked for,' she said. and this time the giantcould not help crying out with admiration. He knew he was beaten, andstill holding the chaplet of stars, he turned to the girl.'Your power is greater than mine: take the crown. you have won itfairly!'The parrot did not need to be told twice. Seizing the crown, shesprang on to the window, crying: 'Monkey, come to me!' And to amonkey, the climb down the tree into the courtyard did not take half aminute. When she had reached the ground she said again: 'Ant, come tome!' And a little ant at once began to crawl over the high wall. Howglad the ant was to be out of the giant's castle, holding fast thecrown which had shrunk into almost nothing, as she herself had done,but grew quite big again when the ant exclaimed:'Deer, come to me!'Surely no deer ever ran so swiftly as that one! On and on she went,bounding over rivers and crashing through tangles till she reached thesea. Here she cried for the last time:'Fish, come to me!' And, plunging in, she swam along the bottom as faras the palace, where the queen and all the fishes gathered togetherawaiting her.The hours since she had left had gone very slowly as they always do topeople that are waiting and many of them had quite given up hope.'I am tired of staying here,' grumbled a beautiful little creature,whose colours changed with every movement of her body, 'I want to seewhat is going on in the upper world. It must be months since that fishwent away.''It was a very difficult task, and the giant must certainly have killedher or she would have been back long ago,' remarked another.'The young flies will be coming out now,' murmured a third, 'and theywill all be eaten up by the river fish! It is really too bad!' When,suddenly, a voice was heard from behind: 'Look! look! what is thatbright thing that is moving so swiftly towards us?' And the queenstarted up, and stood on her tail, so excited was she.A silence fell on all the crowd, and even the grumblers held theirpeace and gazed like the rest. On and on came the fish, holding thecrown tightly in her mouth, and the others moved back to let her pass.On she went right up to the queen, who bent and, taking the crown,placed it on her own head. Then a wonderful thing happened. Her taildropped away or, rather, it divided and grew into two legs and a pairof the prettiest feet in the world, while her maidens, who were groupedaround her, shed their scales and became girls again. They all turnedand looked at each other first, and next at the little fish who hadregained her own shape and was more beautiful than any of them.'It is you who have given us back our life. you, you!' they cried. andfell to weeping from very joy.So they all went back to earth and the queen's palace, and quite forgotthe one that lay under the sea. But they had been so long away thatthey found many changes. The prince, the queen's husband, had diedsome years since, and in his place was her son, who had grown up andwas king! Even in his joy at seeing his mother again an air of sadnessclung to him, and at last the queen could bear it no longer, and beggedhim to walk with her in the garden. Seated together in a bower ofjessamine where she had passed long hours as a bride she took herson's hand and entreated him to tell her the cause of his sorrow.'For,' said she, 'if I can give you happiness you shall have it.''It is no use,' answered the prince. 'nobody can help me. I must bearit alone.''But at least let me share your grief,' urged the queen.'No one can do that,' said he. 'I have fallen in love with what I cannever marry, and I must get on as best I can.''It may not be as impossible as you think,' answered the queen. 'Atany rate, tell me.'There was silence between them for a moment, then, turning away hishead, the prince answered gently:'I have fallen in love with a beautiful deer!''Ah, if that is all,' exclaimed the queen joyfully. And she told himin broken words that, as he had guessed, it was no deer but anenchanted maiden who had won back the crown and brought her home to herown people.'She is here, in my palace,' added the queen. 'I will take you to her.'But when the prince stood before the girl, who was so much morebeautiful than anything he had ever dreamed of, he lost all hiscourage, and stood with bent head before her.Then the maiden drew near, and her eyes, as she looked at him, were theeyes of the deer that day in the forest. She whispered softly:'By your favour let me go, and do not kill me.'And the prince remembered her words, and his heart was filled withhappiness. And the queen, his mother, watched them and smiled.(From Cuentos Populars Catalans, por lo Dr. D. Francisco de S.Maspons y Labros.)The Owl and the EagleOnce upon a time, in a savage country where the snow lies deep for manymonths in the year, there lived an owl and an eagle. Though they wereso different in many ways they became great friends, and at length setup house together, one passing the day in hunting and the other thenight. In this manner they did not see very much of each other andperhaps agreed all the better for that. but at any rate they wereperfectly happy, and only wanted one thing, or, rather, two things, andthat was a wife for each.'I really am too tired when I come home in the evening to clean up thehouse,' said the eagle.'And I am much too sleepy at dawn after a long night's hunting to beginto sweep and dust,' answered the owl. And they both made up theirminds that wives they must have.They flew about in their spare moments to the young ladies of theiracquaintance, but the girls all declared they preferred one husband totwo. The poor birds began to despair, when, one evening, after theyhad been for a wonder hunting together, they found two sisters fastasleep on their two beds. The eagle looked at the owl and the owllooked at the eagle.'They will make capital wives if they will only stay with us,' saidthey. And they flew off to give themselves a wash, and to makethemselves smart before the girls awoke.For many hours the sisters slept on, for they had come a long way, froma town where there was scarcely anything to eat, and felt weak andtired. But by and by they opened their eyes and saw the two birdswatching them.'I hope you are rested?' asked the owl politely.'Oh, yes, thank you,' answered the girls. 'Only we are so very hungry.Do you think we could have something to eat?''Certainly!' replied the eagle. And he flew away to a farmhouse a mileor two off, and brought back a nest of eggs in his strong beak. whilethe owl, catching up a tin pot, went to a cottage where lived an oldwoman and her cow, and entering the shed by the window dipped the potinto the pail of new milk that stood there.The girls were so much delighted with the kindness and cleverness oftheir hosts that, when the birds inquired if they would marry them andstay there for ever, they accepted without so much as giving it asecond thought. So the eagle took the younger sister to wife, and theowl the elder, and never was a home more peaceful than theirs!All went well for several months, and then the eagle's wife had a son,while, on the same day, the owl's wife gave birth to a frog, which sheplaced directly on the banks of a stream near by, as he did not seem tolike the house. The children both grew quickly, and were never tiredof playing together, or wanted any other companions.One night in the spring, when the ice had melted, and the snow wasgone, the sisters sat spinning in the house, awaiting their husbands'return. But long though they watched, neither the owl nor the eagleever came. neither that day nor the next, nor the next, nor the next.At last the wives gave up all hope of their return. but, being sensiblewomen, they did not sit down and cry, but called their children, andset out, determined to seek the whole world over till the missinghusbands were found.Now the women had no idea in which direction the lost birds had gone,but they knew that some distance off was a thick forest, where goodhunting was to be found. It seemed a likely place to find them, or, atany rate, they might hear something of them, and they walked quicklyon, cheered by the thought that they were doing something. Suddenlythe younger sister, who was a little in front, gave a cry of surprise.'Oh! look at that lake!' she said, 'we shall never get across it.''Yes we shall,' answered the elder. 'I know what to do.' And taking along piece of string from her pocket, fastened it into the frog'smouth, like a bit.'You must swim across the lake,' she said, stooping to put him in, 'andwe will walk across on the line behind you.' And so they did, tillthey got to about the middle of the lake, when the frog boy stopped.'I don't like it, and I won't go any further,' cried he sulkily. Andhis mother had to promise him all sorts of nice things before he wouldgo on again.When at last they reached the other side, the owl's wife untied theline from the frog's mouth and told him he might rest and play by thelake till they got back from the forest. Then she and her sister andthe boy walked on, with the great forest looming before them. But theyhad by this time come far and were very tired, and felt glad enough tosee some smoke curling up from a little hut in front of them.'Let us go in and ask for some water,' said the eagle's wife. and inthey went.The inside of the hut was so dark that at first they could see nothingat all. but presently they heard a feeble croak from one corner. Butsisters turned to look, and there, tied by wings and feet, and theireyes sunken, were the husbands that they sought. Quick as lightningthe wives cut the deer  thongs which bound them. but the poor birdswere too weak from pain and starvation to do more than utter softsounds of joy. Hardly, however, were they set free, than a voice ofthunder made the two sisters jump, while the little boy clung tightlyround his mother's neck.'What are you doing in my house?' cried she. And the wives answeredboldly that now they had found their husbands they meant to save themfrom such a wicked witch.'Well, I will give you your chance,' answered the ogress, with ahideous grin. 'we will see if you can slide down this mountain. If youcan reach the bottom of the cavern, you shall have your husbands backagain.' And as she spoke she pushed them before her out of the door tothe edge of a precipice, which went straight down several hundreds offeet. Unseen by the witch, the frog's mother fastened one end of themagic line about her, and whispered to the little boy to hold fast theother. She had scarcely done so when the witch turned round.'You don't seem to like your bargain,' said she. but the girl answered:'Oh, yes, I am quite ready. I was only waiting for you!' And sittingdown she began her slide. On, on, she went, down to such a depth thateven the witch's eyes could not follow her. but she took for grantedthat the woman was dead, and told the sister to take her place. Atthat instant, however, the head of the elder appeared above the rock,brought upwards by the magic line. The witch gave a howl of disgust,and hid her face in her hands. thus giving the younger sister time tofasten the cord to her waist before the ogress looked up.'You can't expect such luck twice,' she said. and the girl sat down andslid over the edge. But in a few minutes she too was back again, andthe witch saw that she had failed, and feared lest her power was going.Trembling with rage though she was, she dared not show it, and onlylaughed hideously.'I sha'n't let my prisoners go as easily as all that!' she said. 'Makemy hair grow as thick and as black as yours, or else your husbandsshall never see daylight again.''That is quite simple,' replied the elder sister. 'only you must do aswe did and perhaps you won't like the treatment.''If you can bear it, of course I can,' answered the witch. And so thegirls told her they had first smeared their heads with pitch and thenlaid hot stones upon them.'It is very painful,' said they, 'but there is no other way that weknow of. And in order to make sure that all will go right, one of uswill hold you down while the other pours on the pitch.'And so they did. and the elder sister let down her hair till it hungover the witch's eyes, so that she might believe it was her own hairgrowing. Then the other brought a huge stone, and, in short, there wasan end of the witch. The sisters were savages who had never seen amissionary.So when the sisters saw that she was dead they went to the hut, andnursed their husbands till they grew strong. Then they picked up thefrog, and all went to make another home on the other side of the greatlake.