Once, long ago, in a little town that lay in the midst of high hills andwild forests, a party of shepherds sat one night in the kitchen of theinn talking over old times, and telling of the strange things that hadbefallen them in their youth.Presently up spoke the silver haired Father Martin.'Comrades,' said he, 'you have had wonderful adventures. but I will tellyou something still more astonishing that happened to myself. When I wasa young lad I had no home and no one to care for me, and I wandered fromvillage to village all over the country with my knapsack on my back.but as soon as I was old enough I took service with a shepherd in themountains, and helped him for three years. One autumn evening as wedrove the flock homeward ten sheep were missing, and the master bade mego and seek them in the forest. I took my dog with me, but he could findno trace of them, though we searched among the bushes till night fell.and then, as I did not know the country and could not find my way homein the dark, I decided to sleep under a tree. At midnight my dog becameuneasy, and began to whine and creep close to me with his tail betweenhis legs. by this I knew that something was wrong, and, looking about, Isaw in the bright moonlight a figure standing beside me. It seemed to bea man with shaggy hair, and a long beard which hung down to his knees.He had a garland upon his head, and a girdle of oak leaves about hisbody, and carried an uprooted fir tree in his right hand. I shook likean aspen leaf at the sight, and my spirit quaked for fear. The strangebeing beckoned with his hand that I should follow him. but as I did notstir from the spot he spoke in a hoarse, grating voice: "Take courage,fainthearted shepherd. I am the Treasure Seeker of the mountain. If youwill come with me you shall dig up much gold."'Though I was still deadly cold with terror I plucked up my courage andsaid: "Get away from me, evil spirit. I do not desire your treasures."'At this the spectre grinned in my face and cried mockingly:'"Simpleton! Do you scorn your good fortune? Well, then, remain aragamuffin all your days."'He turned as if to go away from me, then came back again and said:"Bethink yourself, bethink yourself, rogue. I will fill your knapsack Iwill fill your pouch."'"Away from me, monster," I answered, "I will have nothing to do withyou."'When the apparition saw that I gave no heed to him he ceased to urgeme, saying only: "Some day you will rue this," and looked at me sadly.Then he cried: "Listen to what I say, and lay it well to heart, it maybe of use to you when you come to your senses. A vast treasure of goldand precious stones lies in safety deep under the earth. At twilight andat high noon it is hidden, but at midnight it may be dug up. For sevenhundred years have I watched over it, but now my time has come. it iscommon property, let him find it who can. So I thought to give it intoyour hand, having a kindness for you because you feed your flock upon mymountain."'Thereupon the spectre told me exactly where the treasure lay, and howto find it. It might be only yesterday so well do I remember every wordhe spoke.'"Go towards the little mountains," said he, "and ask there for theBlack King's Valley, and when you come to a tiny brook follow the streamtill you reach the stone bridge beside the saw mill. Do not cross thebridge, but keep to your right along the bank till a high rock standsbefore you. A bow shot from that you will discover a little hollow likea grave. When you find this hollow dig it out. but it will be hard work,for the earth has been pressed down into it with care. Still, work awaytill you find solid rock on all sides of you, and soon you will come toa square slab of stone. force it out of the wall, and you will stand atthe entrance of the treasure house. Into this opening you must crawl,holding a lamp in your mouth. Keep your hands free lest you knock yournose against a stone, for the way is steep and the stones sharp. If itbruises your knees never mind. you are on the road to fortune. Do notrest till you reach a wide stairway, down which you will go till youcome out into a spacious hall, in which there are three doors. two ofthem stand open, the third is fastened with locks and bolts of iron. Donot go through the door to the right lest you disturb the bones of thelords of the treasure. Neither must you go through the door to the left,it leads to the snake's chamber, where adders and serpents lodge. butopen the fast closed door by means of the well known spring root, whichyou must on no account forget to take with you, or all your trouble willbe for naught, for no crowbar or mortal tools will help you. If you wantto procure the root ask a wood seller. it is a common thing for huntersto need, and it is not hard to find. If the door bursts open suddenlywith great crackings and groanings do not be afraid, the noise is causedby the power of the magic root, and you will not be hurt. Now trim yourlamp that it may not fail you, for you will be nearly blinded by theflash and glitter of the gold and precious stones on the walls andpillars of the vault. but beware how you stretch out a hand towards thejewels! In the midst of the cavern stands a copper chest, in thatyou will find gold and silver, enough and to spare, and you may helpyourself to your heart's content. If you take as much as you can carryyou will have sufficient to last your lifetime, and you may return threetimes. but woe betide you if you venture to come a fourth time. Youwould have your trouble for your pains, and would be punished for yourgreediness by falling down the stone steps and breaking your leg. Donot neglect each time to heap back the loose earth which concealed theentrance of the king's treasure chamber."'As the apparition left off speaking my dog pricked up his ears andbegan to bark. I heard the crack of a carter's whip and the noiseof wheels in the distance, and when I looked again the spectre haddisappeared.'So ended the shepherd's tale. and the landlord who was listening withthe rest, said shrewdly:'Tell us now, Father Martin, did you go to the mountain and find whatthe spirit promised you. or is it a fable?''Nay, nay,' answered the graybeard. 'I cannot tell if the spectrelied, for never a step did I go towards finding the hollow, for tworeasons: one was that my neck was too precious for me to risk it insuch a snare as that. the other, that no one could ever tell me wherethe spring root was to be found.'Then Blaize, another aged shepherd, lifted up his voice."Tis a pity, Father Martin, that your secret has grown old with you.If you had told it forty years ago truly you would not long have beenlacking the spring root. Even though you will never climb the mountainnow, I will tell you, for a joke, how it is to be found. The easiestway to get it is by the help of a black woodpecker. Look, in the spring,where she builds her nest in a hole in a tree, and when the time comesfor her brood to fly off block up the entrance to the nest with a hardsod, and lurk in ambush behind the tree till the bird returns to feedher nestlings. When she perceives that she cannot get into her nest shewill fly round the tree uttering cries of distress, and then dart offtowards the sun setting. When you see her do this, take a scarlet cloak,or if that be lacking to you, buy a few yards of scarlet cloth,and hurry back to the tree before the woodpecker returns with thespring root in her beak. So soon as she touches with the root the sodthat blocks the nest, it will fly violently out of the hole. Then spreadthe red cloth quickly under the tree, so that the woodpecker may thinkit is a fire, and in her terror drop the root. Some people really lighta fire and strew spikenard blossoms in it. but that is a clumsy method,for if the flames do not shoot up at the right moment away will fly thewoodpecker, carrying the root with her."The party had listened with interest to this speech, but by the time itwas ended the hour was late, and they went their ways homeward, leavingonly one man who had sat unheeded in a corner the whole evening through.Master Peter Bloch had once been a prosperous innkeeper, and amaster cook. but he had gone steadily down in the world for some time,and was now quite poor.Formerly he had been a merry fellow, fond of a joke, and in the art ofcooking had no equal in the town. He could make fish jelly, and quincefritters, and even wafer cakes. and he gilded the ears of all hisboars' heads. Peter had looked about him for a wife early in life, butunluckily his choice fell upon a woman whose evil tongue was well knownin the town. Ilse was hated by everybody, and the young folks would gomiles out of their way rather than meet her, for she had some ill wordfor everyone. Therefore, when Master Peter came along, and let himselfbe taken in by her boasted skill as a housewife, she jumped at hisoffer, and they were married the next day. But they had not got homebefore they began to quarrel. In the joy of his heart Peter had tastedfreely of his own good wine, and as the bride hung upon his arm hestumbled and fell, dragging her down with him. whereupon she beat himsoundly, and the neighbours said truly that things did not promisewell for Master Peter's comfort. Even when the ill matched couple werepresently blessed with children, his happiness was but short lived, thesavage temper of his quarrelsome wife seemed to blight them from thefirst, and they died like little kids in a cold winter.Though Master Peter had no great wealth to leave behind him, stillit was sad to him to be childless. and he would bemoan himself to hisfriends, when he laid one baby after another in the grave, saying: 'Thelightning has been among the cherry blossoms again, so there will be nofruit to grow ripe.'But, by and by, he had a little daughter so strong and healthy thatneither her mother's temper nor her father's spoiling could keep herfrom growing up tall and beautiful. Meanwhile the fortunes of the familyhad changed. From his youth up, Master Peter had hated trouble. when hehad money he spent it freely, and fed all the hungry folk who asked himfor bread. If his pockets were empty he borrowed of his neighbours, buthe always took good care to prevent his scolding wife from finding outthat he had done so. His motto was: 'It will all come right in the end'.but what it did come to was ruin for Master Peter. He was at his wits'end to know how to earn an honest living, for try as he might ill luckseemed to pursue him, and he lost one post after another, till at lastall he could do was to carry sacks of corn to the mill for his wife, whoscolded him well if he was slow about it, and grudged him his portion offood.This grieved the tender heart of his pretty daughter, who loved himdearly, and was the comfort of his life.Peter was thinking of her as he sat in the inn kitchen and heardthe shepherds talking about the buried treasure, and for her sake heresolved to go and seek for it. Before he rose from the landlord'sarm chair his plan was made, and Master Peter went home more joyful andfull of hope than he had been for many a long day. but on the wayhe suddenly remembered that he was not yet possessed of the magicspring root, and he stole into the house with a heavy heart, and threwhimself down upon his hard straw bed. He could neither sleep nor rest.but as soon as it was light he got up and wrote down exactly all thatwas to be done to find the treasure, that he might not forget anything,and when it lay clear and plain before his eyes he comforted himselfwith the thought that, though he must do the rough work for his wifeduring one more winter at least, he would not have to tread the path tothe mill for the rest of his life. Soon he heard his wife's harshvoice singing its morning song as she went about her household affairs,scolding her daughter the while. She burst open his door while he wasstill dressing: 'Well, Toper!' was her greeting, 'have you been drinkingall night, wasting money that you steal from my housekeeping? For shame,drunkard!'Master Peter, who was well used to this sort of talk, did not disturbhimself, but waited till the storm blew over, then he said calmly:'Do not be annoyed, dear wife. I have a good piece of business in handwhich may turn out well for us.''You with a good business?' cried she, 'you are good for nothing buttalk!''I am making my will,' said he, 'that when my hour comes my house may bein order.'These unexpected words cut his daughter to the heart. she rememberedthat all night long she had dreamed of a newly dug grave, and at thisthought she broke out into loud lamentations. But her mother only cried:'Wretch! have you not wasted goods and possessions, and now do you talkof making a will?'And she seized him like a fury, and tried to scratch out his eyes. Butby and by the quarrel was patched up, and everything went on as before.From that day Peter saved up every penny that his daughter Lucia gavehim on the sly, and bribed the boys of his acquaintance to spy out ablack woodpecker's nest for him. He sent them into the woods and fields,but instead of looking for a nest they only played pranks on him. Theyled him miles over hill and vale, stock and stone, to find a raven'sbrood, or a nest of squirrels in a hollow tree, and when he was angrywith them they laughed in his face and ran away. This went on forsome time, but at last one of the boys spied out a woodpecker in themeadow lands among the wood pigeons, and when he had found her nest ina half dead alder tree, came running to Peter with the news of hisdiscovery. Peter could hardly believe his good fortune, and went quicklyto see for himself if it was really true. and when he reached the treethere certainly was a bird flying in and out as if she had a nest init. Peter was overjoyed at this fortunate discovery, and instantly sethimself to obtain a red cloak. Now in the whole town there was onlyone red cloak, and that belonged to a man of whom nobody ever willinglyasked a favour Master Hammerling the hangman. It cost Master Petermany struggles before he could bring himself to visit such a person, butthere was no help for it, and, little as he liked it, he ended by makinghis request to the hangman, who was flattered that so respectable a manas Peter should borrow his robe of office, and willingly lent it to him.Peter now had all that was necessary to secure the magic root. hestopped up the entrance to the nest, and everything fell out exactly asBlaize had foretold. As soon as the woodpecker came back with the rootin her beak out rushed Master Peter from behind the tree and displayedthe fiery red cloak so adroitly that the terrified bird dropped the rootjust where it could be easily seen. All Peter's plans had succeeded, andhe actually held in his hand the magic root that master key which wouldunlock all doors, and bring its possessor unheard of luck. His thoughtsnow turned to the mountain, and he secretly made preparations for hisjourney. He took with him only a staff, a strong sack, and a little boxwhich his daughter Lucia had given him.It happened that on the very day Peter had chosen for setting out, Luciaand her mother went off early to the town, leaving him to guard thehouse. but in spite of that he was on the point of taking his departurewhen it occurred to him that it might be as well first to test themuch vaunted powers of the magic root for himself. Dame Ilse had astrong cupboard with seven locks built into the wall of her room, inwhich she kept all the money she had saved, and she wore the key of italways hung about her neck. Master Peter had no control at all of themoney affairs of the household, so the contents of this secret hoardwere quite unknown to him, and this seemed to be a good opportunity forfinding out what they were. He held the magic root to the keyhole, andto his astonishment heard all the seven locks creaking and turning, thedoor flew suddenly wide open, and his greedy wife's store of gold pieceslay before his eyes. He stood still in sheer amazement, not knowingwhich to rejoice over most this unexpected find, or the proof of themagic root's real power. but at last he remembered that it was quitetime to be starting on his journey. So, filling his pockets with thegold, he carefully locked the empty cupboard again and left the housewithout further delay. When Dame Ilse and her daughter returned theywondered to find the house door shut, and Master Peter nowhere to beseen. They knocked and called, but nothing stirred within but the housecat, and at last the blacksmith had to be fetched to open the door. Thenthe house was searched from garret to cellar, but no Master Peter was tobe found.'Who knows?' cried Dame Ilse at last, 'the wretch may have been idlingin some tavern since early morning.'Then a sudden thought startled her, and she felt for her keys. Supposethey had fallen into her good for nothing husband's hands and he hadhelped himself to her treasure! But no, the keys were safe in theirusual place, and the cupboard looked quite untouched. Mid day came,then evening, then midnight, and still no Master Peter appeared, and thematter became really serious. Dame Ilse knew right well what a tormentshe had been to her husband, and remorse caused her the gloomiestforebodings.'Ah! Lucia,' she cried, 'I greatly fear that your father has donehimself a mischief.' And they sat till morning weeping over their ownfancies.As soon as it was light they searched every corner of the house again,and examined every nail in the wall and every beam. but, luckily, MasterPeter was not hanging from any of them. After that the neighbours wentout with long poles to fish in every ditch and pond, but they foundnothing, and then Dame Ilse gave up the idea of ever seeing her husbandagain and very soon consoled herself, only wondering how the sacks ofcorn were to be carried to the mill in future. She decided to buya strong ass to do the work, and having chosen one, and after somebargaining with the owner as to its price, she went to the cupboardin the wall to fetch the money. But what were her feelings when sheperceived that every shelf lay empty and bare before her! For a momentshe stood bewildered, then broke into such frightful ravings that Luciaran to her in alarm. but as soon as she heard of the disappearance ofthe money she was heartily glad, and no longer feared that her fatherhad come to any harm, but understood that he must have gone out into theworld to seek his fortune in some new way.About a month after this, someone knocked at Dame Ilse's door one day,and she went to see if it was a customer for meal. but in steppeda handsome young man, dressed like a duke's son, who greeted herrespectfully, and asked after her pretty daughter as if he were an oldfriend, though she could not remember having ever set eyes upon himbefore.However, she invited him to step into the house and be seated while heunfolded his business. With a great air of mystery he begged permissionto speak to the fair Lucia, of whose skill in needlework he had heard somuch, as he had a commission to give her. Dame Ilse had her own opinionas to what kind of commission it was likely to be brought by a youngstranger to a pretty maiden. however, as the meeting would be under herown eye, she made no objection, but called to her industrious daughter,who left off working and came obediently. but when she saw the strangershe stopped short, blushing, and casting down her eyes. He looked at herfondly, and took her hand, which she tried to draw away, crying:'Ah! Friedlin, why are you here? I thought you were a hundred milesaway. Are you come to grieve me again?''No, dearest girl,' answered he. 'I am come to complete your happinessand my own. Since we last met my fortune has utterly changed. I amno longer the poor vagabond that I was then. My rich uncle has died,leaving me money and goods in plenty, so that I dare to present myselfto your mother as a suitor for your hand. That I love you I know well.if you can love me I am indeed a happy man.'Lucia's pretty blue eyes had looked up shyly as he spoke, and now asmile parted her rosy lips. and she stole a glance at her mother to seewhat she thought about it all. but the dame stood lost in amazement tofind that her daughter, whom she could have declared had never been outof her sight, was already well acquainted with the handsome stranger,and quite willing to be his bride. Before she had done staring, thishasty wooer had smoothed his way by covering the shining table with goldpieces as a wedding gift to the bride's mother, and had filled Lucia'sapron into the bargain. after which the dame made no difficulties, andthe matter was speedily settled.While Ilse gathered up the gold and hid it away safely, the loverswhispered together, and what Friedlin told her seemed to make Luciaevery moment more happy and contented.Now a great hurry burly began in the house, and preparations for thewedding went on apace. A few days later a heavily laden waggon drove up,and out of it came so many boxes and bales that Dame Ilse was lost inwonder at the wealth of her future son in law. The day for the weddingwas chosen, and all their friends and neighbours were bidden to thefeast. As Lucia was trying on her bridal wreath she said to her mother:'This wedding garland would please me indeed if father Peter could leadme to the church. If only he could come back again! Here we are rollingin riches while he may be nibbling at hunger's table.' And the very ideaof such a thing made her weep, while even Dame Ilse said:'I should not be sorry myself to see him come back there is alwayssomething lacking in a house when the good man is away.'But the fact was that she was growing quite tired of having no one toscold. And what do you think happened?On the very eve of the wedding a man pushing a wheelbarrow arrived atthe city gate, and paid toll upon a barrel of nails which it contained,and then made the best of his way to the bride's dwelling and knocked atthe door.The bride herself peeped out of the window to see who it could be, andthere stood father Peter! Then there was great rejoicing in the house.Lucia ran to embrace him, and even Dame Ilse held out her hand inwelcome, and only said: 'Rogue, mend your ways,' when she remembered theempty treasure cupboard. Father Peter greeted the bridegroom, lookingat him shrewdly, while the mother and daughter hastened to say allthey knew in his favour, and appeared to be satisfied with him as ason in law. When Dame Ilse had set something to eat before her husband,she was curious to hear his adventures, and questioned him eagerly as towhy he had gone away.'God bless my native place,' said he. 'I have been marching through thecountry, and have tried every kind of work, but now I have found a jobin the iron trade. only, so far, I have put more into it than I haveearned by it. This barrel of nails is my whole fortune, which I wish togive as my contribution towards the bride's house furnishing.'This speech roused Dame Ilse to anger, and she broke out into suchshrill reproaches that the bystanders were fairly deafened, and Friedlinhastily offered Master Peter a home with Lucia and himself, promisingthat he should live in comfort, and be always welcome. So Lucia had herheart's desire, and father Peter led her to the church next day, andthe marriage took place very happily. Soon afterwards the young peoplesettled in a fine house which Friedlin had bought, and had a garden andmeadows, a fishpond, and a hill covered with vines, and were as happy asthe day was long. Father Peter also stayed quietly with them, living, aseverybody believed, upon the generosity of his rich son in law. No onesuspected that his barrel of nails was the real 'Horn of Plenty,' fromwhich all this prosperity overflowed.Peter had made the journey to the treasure mountain successfully,without being found out by anybody. He had enjoyed himself by the way,and taken his own time, until he actually reached the little brook inthe valley which it had cost him some trouble to find. Then he pressedon eagerly, and soon came to the little hollow in the wood. down hewent, burrowing like a mole into the earth. the magic root did its work,and at last the treasure lay before his eyes. You may imagine how gailyPeter filled his sack with as much gold as he could carry, and howhe staggered up the seventy seven steps with a heart full of hope anddelight. He did not quite trust the gnome's promises of safety, andwas in such haste to find himself once more in the light of day thathe looked neither to the right nor the left, and could not afterwardsremember whether the walls and pillars had sparkled with jewels or not.However, all went well he neither saw nor heard anything alarming. theonly thing that happened was that the great iron barred door shut witha crash as soon as he was fairly outside it, and then he rememberedthat he had left the magic root behind him, so he could not go back foranother load of treasure. But even that did not trouble Peter much. hewas quite satisfied with what he had already. After he had faithfullydone everything according to Father Martin's instructions, and pressedthe earth well back into the hollow, he sat down to consider how hecould bring his treasure back to his native place, and enjoy it there,without being forced to share it with his scolding wife, who wouldgive him no peace if she once found out about it. At last, aftermuch thinking, he hit upon a plan. He carried his sack to the nearestvillage, and there bought a wheelbarrow, a strong barrel, and a quantityof nails. Then he packed his gold into the barrel, covered it well witha layer of nails, hoisted it on to the wheelbarrow with some difficulty,and set off with it upon his homeward way. At one place upon the roadhe met a handsome young man who seemed by his downcast air to be in somegreat trouble. Father Peter, who wished everybody to be as happy as hewas himself, greeted him cheerfully, and asked where he was going, towhich he answered sadly:'Into the wide world, good father, or out of it, where ever my feet maychance to carry me.''Why out of it?' said Peter. 'What has the world been doing to you?''It has done nothing to me, nor I to it,' he replied. 'Neverthelessthere is not anything left in it for me.'Father Peter did his best to cheer the young man up, and invited him tosup with him at the first inn they came to, thinking that perhaps hungerand poverty were causing the stranger's trouble. But when good food wasset before him he seemed to forget to eat. So Peter perceived that whatailed his guest was sorrow of heart, and asked him kindly to tell himhis story.'Where is the good, father?' said he. 'You can give me neither help norcomfort.''Who knows?' answered Master Peter. 'I might be able to do somethingfor you. Often enough in life help comes to us from the most unexpectedquarter.'The young man, thus encouraged, began his tale.'I am,' said he, 'a crossbow man in the service of a noble count, inwhose castle I was brought up. Not long ago my master went on a journey,and brought back with him, amongst other treasures, the portrait of afair maiden so sweet and lovely that I lost my heart at first sight ofit, and could think of nothing but how I might seek her out and marryher. The count had told me her name, and where she lived, but laughed atmy love, and absolutely refused to give me leave to go in search of her,so I was forced to run away from the castle by night. I soon reached thelittle town where the maiden dwelt. but there fresh difficulties awaitedme. She lived under the care of her mother, who was so severe that shewas never allowed to look out of the window, or set her foot outside thedoor alone, and how to make friends with her I did not know. But at lastI dressed myself as an old woman, and knocked boldly at her door. Thelovely maiden herself opened it, and so charmed me that I came nearforgetting my disguise. but I soon recovered my wits, and begged herto work a fine table cloth for me, for she is reported to be the bestneedlewoman in all the country round. Now I was free to go and see heroften under the presence of seeing how the work was going oil, and oneday, when her mother had gone to the town, I ventured to throw off mydisguise, and tell her of my love. She was startled at first. but Ipersuaded her to listen to me, and I soon saw that I was not displeasingto her, though she scolded me gently for my disobedience to my master,and my deceit in disguising myself. But when I begged her to marry me,she told me sadly that her mother would scorn a penniless wooer, andimplored me to go away at once, lest trouble should fall upon her.'Bitter as it was to me, I was forced to go when she bade me, and I havewandered about ever since, with grief gnawing at my heart. for how cana masterless man, without money or goods, ever hope to win the lovelyLucia?'Master Peter, who had been listening attentively, pricked up his earsat the sound of his daughter's name, and very soon found out that it wasindeed with her that this young man was so deeply in love.'Your story is strange indeed,' said he. 'But where is the father ofthis maiden why do you not ask him for her hand? He might well takeyour part, and be glad to have you for his son in law.''Alas!' said the young man, 'her father is a wandering good for naught,who has forsaken wife and child, and gone off who knows where? The wifecomplains of him bitterly enough, and scolds my dear maiden when shetakes her father's part.'Father Peter was somewhat amused by this speech. but he liked the youngman well, and saw that he was the very person he needed to enable himto enjoy his wealth in peace, without being separated from his deardaughter.'If you will take my advice,' said he, 'I promise you that you shallmarry this maiden whom you love so much, and that before you are manydays older.''Comrade,' cried Friedlin indignantly, for he thought Peter did but jestwith him, 'it is ill done to mock at an unhappy man. you had better findsomeone else who will let himself be taken in with your fine promises.'And up he sprang, and was going off hastily, when Master Peter caughthim by the arm.'Stay, hothead!' he cried. 'it is no jest, and I am prepared to makegood my words.'Thereupon he showed him the treasure hidden under the nails, andunfolded to him his plan, which was that Friedlin should play the partof the rich son in law, and keep a still tongue, that they might enjoytheir wealth together in peace.The young man was overjoyed at this sudden change in his fortunes, anddid not know how to thank father Peter for his generosity. They tookthe road again at dawn the next morning, and soon reached a town, whereFriedlin equipped himself as a gallant wooer should. Father Peter filledhis pockets with gold for the wedding dowry, and agreed with him thatwhen all was settled he should secretly send him word that Peter mightsend off the waggon load of house plenishings with which the richbridegroom was to make such a stir in the little town where the bridelived. As they parted, father Peter's last commands to Friedlin were toguard well their secret, and not even to tell it to Lucia till she washis wife.Master Peter long enjoyed the profits of his journey to the mountain,and no rumour of it ever got abroad. In his old age his prosperity wasso great that he himself did not know how rich he was. but it was alwayssupposed that the money was Friedlin's. He and his beloved wife lived inthe greatest happiness and peace, and rose to great honour in the town.And to this day, when the citizens wish to describe a wealthy man, theysay: 'As rich as Peter Bloch's son in law!'