A king, while visiting his wives' apartments, took a monkey from aneighboring stable for a pet. He kept him constantly close at hand for hisamusement, for as it is said, parrots, partridges, doves, rams, monkeys,and such creatures are a king's natural companions.It goes without saying that the monkey, fed on the various dishes thatthe king gave him, grew large and was given respect by all who surroundedthe king. Indeed, the king, due to his love and exceeding trust of themonkey, even gave him a sword to carry.In the vicinity of the palace the king had a grove artfully plantedwith many trees of various sorts. Early in the springtime the king noticedhow beautiful the grove was. Its blossoms exuded a magnificent fragrance,while swarms of bees sang praise to the god of love. Thus overcome bylove, he entered the grove with his favorite wife. He ordered all hisservants to wait for him at the entrance.After having pleasantly strolling through and observing the grove, hegrew tired and said to his monkey, "I want to sleep a little while in thisarbor of flowers. Take care that nothing disturbs me!" Having said this,the king fell asleep.Presently a bee, pursuing the aroma of the flowers, betel, and musk,flew up and lit on his head. Seeing this, the monkey thought angrily,"What is this? Am I to allow this common creature to bite the king beforemy very eyes?"With that he proceeded to drive it away. However, in spite of themonkey's defense, the bee approached the king again and again. Finally,blinded by anger, the monkey drew his sword and struck down the bee with asingle blow. However, the same blow also split the king's head.The queen, who was sleeping next to the king jumped up in terror.Seeing the crime, she said, "Oh, oh, you foolish monkey! What have youdone to the king who placed such trust in you?"The monkey explained how it had happened, but thereafter he was shunnedand scorned by everyone. Thus it is said, "Do not choose a fool for afriend, for the king was killed by a monkey."And I say, "It is better to have a clever enemy than a foolish friend."