Once upon a time there lived seven brothers and a sister. The brotherswere married, but their wives did not do the cooking for the family. Itwas done by their sister, who stopped at home to cook. The wives for thisreason bore their sister in law much ill will, and at length they combinedtogether to oust her from the office of cook and general provider, so thatone of themselves might obtain it. They said, "She does not go out to thefields to work, but remains quietly at home, and yet she has not the mealsready at the proper time." They then called upon their bonga, and vowingvows unto him they secured his goodwill and assistance. then they said tothe bonga, "At midday, when our sister in law goes to bring water, causeit thus to happen, that on seeing her pitcher, the water shall vanish, andagain slowly reappear. In this way she will be delayed. Let the water notflow into her pitcher, and you may keep the maiden as your own."At noon when she went to bring water, it suddenly dried up before her,and she began to weep. Then after a while the water began slowly to rise.When it reached her ankles she tried to fill her pitcher, but it would notgo under the water. Being frightened she began to wail and cry to herbrother:Oh! my brother, the water reaches to my ankles,Still, Oh! my brother, the pitcher will not dip.The water continued to rise until it reached her knee, when she beganto wail again:Oh! my brother, the water reaches to my knee,Still, Oh! my brother, the pitcher will not dip.The water continued to rise, and when it reached her waist, she criedagain:Oh! my brother, the water reaches to my waist,Still, Oh! my brother, the pitcher will not dip.The water still rose, and when it reached her neck she kept on crying:Oh! my brother, the water reaches to my neck,Still, Oh! my brother, the pitcher will not dip.At length the water became so deep that she felt herself drowning, thenshe cried aloud:Oh! my brother, the water measures a man's height,Oh! my brother, the pitcher begins to fill.The pitcher filled with water, and along with it she sank and wasdrowned. The bonga then transformed her into a bonga like himself, andcarried her off.After a time she reappeared as a bamboo growing on the embankment ofthe tank in which she had been drowned. When the bamboo had grown to animmense size, a jogi, who was in the habit of passing that way, seeing it,said to himself, "This will make a splendid fiddle."So one day he brought an ax to cut it down. but when he was about tobegin, the bamboo called out, "Do not cut at the root, cut higher up."When he lifted his ax to cut high up the stem, the bamboo cried out, "Donot cut near the top, cut at the root." When the jogi again preparedhimself to cut at the root as requested, the bamboo said, "Do not cut atthe root, cut higher up." and when he was about to cut higher up, it againcalled out to him, "Do not cut high up, cut at the root." The jogi by thistime felt sure that a bonga was trying to frighten him, so becoming angryhe cut down the bamboo at the root, and taking it away made a fiddle outof it. The instrument had a superior tone and delighted all who heard it.The jogi carried it with him when he went a begging, and through theinfluence of its sweet music he returned home every evening with a fullwallet.He now and then visited, when on his rounds, the house of the bongagirl's brothers, and the strains of the fiddle affected them greatly. Someof them were moved even to tears, for the fiddle seemed to wail as one inbitter anguish. The elder brother wished to purchase it, and offered tosupport the jogi for a whole year if he would consent to part with hiswonderful instrument. The jogi, however, knew its value, and refused tosell it.It so happened that the jogi some time after went to the house of avillage chief, and after playing a tune or two on his fiddle asked forsomething to eat. They offered to buy his fiddle and promised a high pricefor it, but he refused to sell it, as his fiddle brought to him his meansof livelihood. When they saw that he was not to be prevailed upon, theygave him food and a plentiful supply of liquor. Of the latter he drank sofreely that he presently became intoxicated. While he was in thiscondition, they took away his fiddle, and substituted their own old onefor it. When the jogi recovered, he missed his instrument, and suspectingthat it had been stolen asked them to return it to him. They denied havingtaken it, so he had to depart, leaving his fiddle behind him. The chief'sson, being a musician, used to play on the jogi's fiddle, and in his handsthe music it gave forth delighted the ears of all who heard it.When all the household were absent at their labors in the fields, thebonga girl used to come out of the bamboo fiddle, and prepared the familymeal. Having eaten her own share, she placed that of the chief's son underhis bed, and covering it up to keep off the dust, reentered the fiddle.This happening every day, the other members of the household thought thatsome girl friend of theirs was in this manner showing her interest in theyoung man, so they did not trouble themselves to find out how it cameabout. The young chief, however, was determined to watch, and see which ofhis girl friends was so attentive to his comfort. He said in his own mind,"I will catch her today, and give her a sound beating. she is causing meto be ashamed before the others." So saying, he hid himself in a corner ina pile of firewood. In a short time the girl came out of the bamboofiddle, and began to dress her hair. Having completed her toilet, shecooked the meal of rice as usual, and having eaten some herself, sheplaced the young man's portion under his bed, as before, and was about toenter the fiddle again, when he, running out from his hiding place, caughther in his arms. The bonga girl exclaimed, "Fie! Fie! You may be a dom, oryou may be a hadi of some other caste with whom I cannot marry."He said, "No. But from today, you and I are one." So they beganlovingly to hold converse with each other. When the others returned homein the evening, they saw that she was both a human being and a bonga, andthey rejoiced exceedingly.Now in course of time the bonga girl's family became very poor, and herbrothers on one occasion came to the chief's house on a visit. The bongagirl recognized them at once, but they did not know who she was. Shebrought them water on their arrival, and afterwards set cooked rice beforethem. Then sitting down near them, she began in wailing tones to upbraidthem on account of the treatment she had been subjected to by their wives.She related all that had befallen her, and wound up by saying, "You musthave known it all, and yet you did not interfere to save me." And that wasall the revenge she took.