"Terence Mooney was an honest boy and well to do. an' he rinted thebiggest farm on this side iv the Galties. an' bein' mighty cute an' asevare worker, it was small wonder he turned a good penny every harvest.But, unluckily, he was blessed with an ilegant large family ivdaughters, an' iv coorse, his heart was allamost bruck, striving to makeup fortunes for the whole of them. An' there wasn't a conthrivance ivany soart or description for makin' money out iv the farm but he was upto."Well, among the other ways he had iv gettin' up in the world he alwayskep a power iv turkeys, and all soarts iv poultrey. an' he was out ivall rason partial to geese an' small blame to him for that same fortwice't a year you can pluck them as bare as my hand an' get a fineprice for the feathers, an' plenty of rale sizable eggs an' when theyare too ould to lay any more, you can kill them, an' sell them to thegintlemen for goslings, d'ye see, let alone that a goose is the mostmanly bird that is out."Well, it happened in the coorse iv time that one ould gandher tuck awondherful likin' to Terence, an' divil a place he could go serenadin'about the farm, or lookin' afther the men, but the gandher id be at hisheels, an' rubbin' himself agin his legs, an' lookin' up in his facejist like any other Christian id do. an', begorra, the likes iv it wasnever seen Terence Mooney an' the gandher wor so great."An' at last the bird was so engagin' that Terence would not allow it tobe plucked any more, an' kep it from that time out for love an'affection just all as one like one iv his childer."But happiness in perfection never lasts long, an' the neighboursbegin'd to suspect the nathur an' intentions iv the gandher, an' some ivthem said it was the divil, an' more iv them that it was a fairy."Well, Terence could not but hear something of what was sayin', an' youmay be sure he was not altogether asy in his mind about it, an' from oneday to another he was gettin' more ancomfortable in himself, until hedetarmined to sind for Jer Garvan, the fairy docthor, in Garryowen, an'it's he was the illigant hand at the business, an' divil a sperit id saya crass word to him, no more nor a priest. An', moreover, he was verygreat wid ould Terence Mooney this man's father that was."So without more about it he was sint for, an', sure enough, the divil along he was about it, for he kem back that very evenin' along wid theboy that was sint for him, an' as soon as he was there, an' tuck hissupper, an' was done talkin' for a while, he begin'd, of coorse, to lookinto the gandher."Well, he turned it this away an' that away, to the right an' to theleft, an' straight ways an' upside down, an' when he was tired handlin'it, says he to Terence Mooney:"'Terence,' says he, 'you must remove the bird into the next room,' sayshe, 'an' put a petticoat,' says he, 'or anny other convaynience roundhis head,' says he."'An' why so?' says Terence."'Becase,' says Jer, says he."'Becase what?' says Terence."'Becase,' says Jer, 'if it isn't done you'll never be asy agin,' sayshe, 'or pusillanimous in your mind,' says he. 'so ax no more questions,but do my biddin',' says he."'Well,' says Terence, 'have your own way,' says he."An' wid that he tuck the ould gandher an' giv' it to one iv thegossoons."'An' take care,' says he, 'don't smother the crathur,' says he."Well, as soon as the bird was gone, says Jer Garvan, says he:"'Do you know what that old gandher _is_, Terence Mooney?'"'Divil a taste,' says Terence."'Well, then,' says Jer, 'the gandher is your own father,' says he."'It's jokin' you are,' says Terence, turnin' mighty pale. 'how can anould gandher be my father?' says he."'I'm not funnin' you at all,' says Jer. 'it's thrue what I tell you,it's your father's wandhrin' sowl,' says he, 'that's naturally tuckpissession iv the ould gandher's body,' says he. 'I know him many ways,and I wondher,' says he, 'you do not know the cock iv his eye yourself,'says he."'Oh, blur an' ages!' says Terence, 'what the divil will I ever do atall at all,' says he. 'it's all over wid me, for I plucked him twelvetimes at the laste,' says he."'That can't be helped now,' says Jer. 'it was a sevare act, surely,'says he, 'but it's too late to lamint for it now,' says he. 'the onlyway to prevint what's past,' says he, 'is to put a stop to it before ithappens,' says he."'Thrue for you,' says Terence, 'but how the divil did you come to theknowledge iv my father's sowl,' says he, 'bein' in the ould gandher,'says he."'If I tould you,' says Jer, 'you would not undherstand me,' says he,'without book larnin' an' gasthronomy,' says he. 'so ax me noquestions,' says he, 'an' I'll tell you no lies. But b'lieve me in thismuch,' says he, 'it's your father that's in it,' says he. 'an' if Idon't make him spake to morrow mornin',' says he, 'I'll give you lave tocall me a fool,' says he."'Say no more,' says Terence. 'that settles the business,' says he. 'an'oh, blur and ages! is it not a quare thing,' says he, 'for a dacent,respictable man,' says he, 'to be walkin' about the counthry in theshape iv an ould gandher,' says he. 'and oh, murdher, murdher! is notit often I plucked him,' says he, 'an' tundher and ouns! might not Ihave ate him?' says he. and wid that he fell into a could parspiration,savin' your prisince, an' on the pint iv faintin' wid the bare notionsiv it."Well, whin he was come to himself agin, says Jerry to him, quite an'asy:"'Terence,' says he, 'don't be aggravatin' yourself,' says he. 'for Ihave a plan composed that 'ill make him spake out,' says he, 'an' tellwhat it is in the world he's wantin',' says he. 'an' mind an' don't becomin' in wid your gosther, an' to say agin anything I tell you,' sayshe, 'but jist purtind, as soon as the bird is brought back,' says he,'how that we're goin' to sind him to morrow mornin' to market,' says he.'An' if he don't spake to night,' says he, 'or gother himself out iv theplace,' says he, 'put him into the hamper airly, and sind him in thecart,' says he, 'straight to Tipperary, to be sould for ating,' says he,'along wid the two gossoons,' says he, 'an' my name isn't Jer Garvan,'says he, 'if he doesn't spake out before he's half way,' says he. 'An'mind,' says he, 'as soon as iver he says the first word,' says he, 'thatvery minute bring him aff to Father Crotty,' says he. 'an' if hisraverince doesn't make him ratire,' says he, 'like the rest iv hisparishioners, glory be to God,' says he, 'into the siclusion iv theflames iv purgathory,' says he, 'there's no vartue in my charums,' sayshe."Well, wid that the ould gandher was let into the room agin, an' theyall begin'd to talk iv sindin' him the nixt mornin' to be sould forroastin' in Tipperary, jist as if it was a thing andoubtingly settled.But divil a notice the gandher tuck, no more nor if they wor spaking ivthe Lord Liftinant. an' Terence desired the boys to get ready the kishfor the poulthry, an' to 'settle it out wid hay soft an' shnug,' sayshe, 'for it's the last jauntin' the poor ould gandher 'ill get in thisworld,' says he."Well, as the night was gettin' late, Terence was growin' mightysorrowful an' down hearted in himself entirely wid the notions iv whatwas goin' to happen. An' as soon as the wife an' the crathurs wor fairlyin bed, he brought out some illigint potteen, an' himself an' Jer Garvansot down to it. an', begorra, the more anasy Terence got, the more hedhrank, and himself and Jer Garvan finished a quart betune them. Itwasn't an imparial, though, an' more's the pity, for them wasn'tanvinted antil short since. but divil a much matther it signifies anylonger if a pint could hould two quarts, let alone what it does, sinstFather Mathew the Lord purloin his raverince begin'd to give thepledge, an' wid the blessin' iv timperance to deginerate Ireland."An', begorra, I have the medle myself. an' it's proud I am iv thatsame, for abstamiousness is a fine thing, although it's mighty dhry."Well, whin Terence finished his pint, he thought he might as well stop.'for enough is as good as a faste,' says he. 'an' I pity the vagabond,'says he, 'that is not able to conthroul his licquor,' says he, 'an' tokeep constantly inside iv a pint measure,' says he. an' wid that hewished Jer Garvan a good night an' walked out iv the room."But he wint out the wrong door, bein' a thrifle hearty in himself an'not rightly knowin' whether he was standin' on his head or his heels,or both iv them at the same time, an' in place iv gettin' into bed,where did he thrun himself but into the poulthry hamper that the boyshad settled out ready for the gandher in the mornin'. An', sure enough,he sunk down soft an' complate through the hay to the bottom. an' widthe turnin' and roulin' about in the night, the divil a bit iv him butwas covered up as shnug as a lumper in a pittaty furrow before mornin'."So wid the first light, up gets the two boys that wor to take thesperit, as they consaved, to Tipperary. an' they cotched the ouldgandher an' put him in the hamper, an' clapped a good wisp iv hay an thetop iv him, an' tied it down sthrong wid a bit iv a coard, an' med thesign iv the crass over him, in dhread iv any harum, an' put the hamperup an the car, wontherin' all the while what in the world was makin' theould bird so surprisin' heavy."Well, they wint along quite anasy towards Tipperary, wishin' everyminute that some iv the neighbours bound the same way id happen to fallin with them, for they didn't half like the notions iv havin' no companybut the bewitched gandher, an' small blame to them for that same."But although they wor shaking in their skhins in dhread iv the ouldbird beginnin' to convarse them every minute, they did not let an to oneanother, but kep singin' an' whistlin' like mad to keep the dread out ivtheir hearts."Well, afther they wor on the road betther nor half an hour, they kem tothe bad bit close by Father Crotty's, an' there was one divil of a rutthree feet deep at the laste. an' the car got sich a wondherful chuckgoin' through it that it wakened Terence widin in the basket."'Bad luck to ye,' says he, 'my bones is bruck wid yer thricks. what thedivil are ye doin' wid me?'"'Did ye hear anything quare, Thady?' says the boy that was next to thecar, turnin' as white as the top iv a mushroom. 'did ye hear anythingquare soundin' out iv the hamper?' says he."'No, nor you,' says Thady, turnin' as pale as himself. 'It's the ouldgandher that's gruntin' wid the shakin' he's gettin',' says he."'Where the divil have ye put me into?' says Terence inside. 'Bad luckto your sowls,' says he. 'let me out, or I'll be smothered this minute,'says he."'There's no use in purtending,' says the boy. 'the gandher's spakin',glory be to God,' says he."'Let me out, you murdherers,' says Terence."'In the name iv the blessed Vargin,' says Thady, 'an' iv all the holysaints, hould yer tongue, you unnatheral gandher,' says he."'Who's that, that dar to call me nicknames?' says Terence inside,roaring wid the fair passion. 'Let me out, you blasphamious infiddles,'says he, 'or by this crass I'll stretch ye,' says he."'In the name iv all the blessed saints in heaven,' says Thady, 'who thedivil are ye?'"'Who the divil would I be, but Terence Mooney,' says he. 'It's myselfthat's in it, you unmerciful bliggards,' says he. 'Let me out, or, bythe holy, I'll get out in spite iv yes,' says he, 'an', by jaburs, I'llwallop yes in arnest,' says he."'It's ould Terence, sure enough,' says Thady. 'Isn't it cute the fairydocthor found him out?' says he."'I'm an the pint of snuffication,' says Terence. 'Let me out, I tellyou, an' wait till I get at ye,' says he, 'for, begorra, the divil abone in your body but I'll powdher,' says he."An' wid that he beginned kickin' and flingin' inside in the hamper, anddhrivin' his legs agin the sides iv it, that it was a wonder he did notknock it to pieces."Well, as soon as the boys seen that they skelped the ould horse into agallop as hard as he could peg towards the priest's house, through theruts, an' over the stones. an' you'd see the hamper fairly flyin' threefeet up in the air with the joultin'. glory be to God."So it was small wondher, by the time they got to his raverince's door,the breath was fairly knocked out of poor Terence, so that he was lyin'speechless in the bottom iv the hamper."Well, whin his raverince kem down, they up an' they tould him all thathappened, an' how they put the gandher in the hamper, an' how hebeginned to spake, an' how he confissed that he was ould Terence Mooney.an' they axed his honour to advise them how to get rid iv the sperit forgood an' all."So says his raverince, says he:"'I'll take my booke,' says he, 'an' I'll read some rale sthrong holybits out iv it,' says he, 'an' do you get a rope and put it round thehamper,' says he, 'an' let it swing over the runnin' wather at thebridge,' says he, 'an' it's no matther if I don't make the sperit comeout iv it,' says he."Well, wid that the priest got his horse, and tuck his booke in undherhis arm, an' the boys follied his raverince, ladin' the horse down tothe bridge, an' divil a word out iv Terence all the way, for he seen itwas no use spakin', an' he was afeard if he med any noise they mightthrait him to another gallop an' finish him intirely."Well, as soon as they wor all come to the bridge, the boys tuck therope they had wid them an' med it fast to the top iv the hamper, an'swung it fairly over the bridge, lettin' it hang in the air about twelvefeet out iv the wather."And his raverince rode down to the bank of the river close by, an'beginned to read mighty loud and bould intirely."An' whin he was goin' on about five minutes, all at onst the bottom ivthe hamper kem out, an' down wint Terence, falling splash into thewather, an' the ould gandher a top iv him. Down they both wint to thebottom, wid a souse you'd hear half a mile off."An' before they had time to rise agin, his raverince, wid the fairastonishment, giv his horse one dig iv the spurs, an' before he knewwhere he was, in he wint, horse an' all, a top iv them, an' down to thebottom."Up they all kem agin together, gaspin' and puffin', an' off down widthe current wid them, like shot in under the arch iv the bridge tillthey kem to the shallow wather."The ould gandher was the first out, and the priest and Terence kemnext, pantin' an' blowin' an' more than half dhrounded, an' hisraverince was so freckened wid the dhroundin' he got and wid the sightiv the sperit, as he consaved, that he wasn't the better of it for amonth."An' as soon as Terence could spake he swore he'd have the life of thetwo gossoons. but Father Crotty would not give him his will. An' as soonas he was got quiter they all endivoured to explain it. but Terenceconsaved he went raly to bed the night before, an' his wife said thesame to shilter him from the suspision for havin' th' dhrop taken. An'his raverince said it was a mysthery, an' swore if he cotched anyonelaughin' at the accident he'd lay the horsewhip across their shoulders."An' Terence grew fonder an' fonder iv the gandher every day, until atlast he died in a wondherful old age, lavin' the gandher afther him an'a large family iv childher."An' to this day the farm is rinted by one iv Terence Mooney's lenialand legitimate postariors."JOSEPH SHERIDAN LE FANN.