Once upon a time there lived a king who had three daughters. Now ithappened that he had to go out to battle, so he called his daughters andsaid to them, "My dear children, I am obliged to go to the wars. The enemyis approaching us with a large army. It is a great grief to me to leaveyou all. During my absence take care of yourselves and be good girls.behave well and look after everything in the house. You may walk in thegarden, and you may go into all the rooms in the palace, except the roomat the back in the right hand corner. into that you must not enter, forharm would befall you.""You may keep your mind easy, father," they replied. "We have neverbeen disobedient to you. Go in peace, and may heaven give you a gloriousvictory!"When everything was ready for his departure, the king gave them thekeys of all the rooms and reminded them once more of what he had said. Hisdaughters kissed his hands with tears in their eyes, and wished himprosperity, and he gave the eldest the keys.Now when the girls found themselves alone they felt so sad and dullthat they did not know what to do. So, to pass the time, they decided towork for part of the day, to read for part of the day, and to enjoythemselves in the garden for part of the day. As long as they did this allwent well with them. But this happy state of things did not last long.Every day they grew more and more curious, and you will see what the endof that was."Sisters," said the eldest princess, "all day long we sew, spin, andread. We have been several days quite alone, and there is no corner of thegarden that we have not explored. We have been in all the rooms of ourfather's palace, and have admired the rich and beautiful furniture. whyshould not we go into the room that our father forbad us to enter?""Sister," said the youngest, "I cannot think how you can tempt us tobreak our father's command. When he told us not to go into that room hemust have known what he was saying, and have had a good reason for sayingit.""Surely the sky won't fall about our heads if we do go in," saidthe second princess. "Dragons and such like monsters that would devour uswill not be hidden in the room. And how will our father ever find out thatwe have gone in?"While they were speaking thus, encouraging each other, they had reachedthe room. the eldest fitted the key into the lock, and snap! the doorstood open.The three girls entered, and what do you think they saw?The room was quite empty, and without any ornament, but in the middlestood a large table, with a gorgeous cloth, and on it lay a big open book.Now the princesses were curious to know what was written in the book,especially the eldest, and this is what she read, "The eldest daughter ofthis king will marry a prince from the East."Then the second girl stepped forward, and turning over the page sheread, "The second daughter of this king will marry a prince from theWest."The girls were delighted, and laughed and teased each other.But the youngest princess did not want to go near the table or to openthe book. Her elder sisters however left her no peace, and will she, nillshe, they dragged her up to the table, and in fear and trembling sheturned over the page and read, "The youngest daughter of this king will bemarried to a pig from the North."Now if a thunderbolt had fallen upon her from heaven it would not havefrightened her more.She almost died of misery, and if her sisters had not held her up, shewould have sunk to the ground and cut her head open.When she came out of the fainting fit into which she had fallen in herterror, her sisters tried to comfort her, saying, "How can you believesuch nonsense? When did it ever happen that a king's daughter married apig?""What a baby you are!" said the other sister. "has not our fatherenough soldiers to protect you, even if the disgusting creature did cometo woo you?"The youngest princess would fain have let herself be convinced by hersisters' words, and have believed what they said, but her heart was heavy.Her thoughts kept turning to the book, in which stood written that greathappiness waited her sisters, but that a fate was in store for her such ashad never before been known in the world.Besides, the thought weighed on her heart that she had been guilty ofdisobeying her father. She began to get quite ill, and in a few days shewas so changed that it was difficult to recognize her. formerly she hadbeen rosy and merry, now she was pale and nothing gave her any pleasure.She gave up playing with her sisters in the garden, ceased to gatherflowers to put in her hair, and never sang when they sat together at theirspinning and sewing.In the meantime the king won a great victory, and having completelydefeated and driven off the enemy, he hurried home to his daughters, towhom his thoughts had constantly turned. Everyone went out to meet himwith cymbals and fifes and drums, and there was great rejoicing over hisvictorious return. The king's first act on reaching home was to thankHeaven for the victory he had gained over the enemies who had risenagainst him. He then entered his palace, and the three princesses steppedforward to meet him. His joy was great when he saw that they were allwell, for the youngest did her best not to appear sad.In spite of this, however, it was not long before the king noticed thathis third daughter was getting very thin and sad looking. And all of asudden he felt as if a hot iron were entering his soul, for it flashedthrough his mind that she had disobeyed his word. He felt sure he wasright. but to be quite certain he called his daughters to him, questionedthem, and ordered them to speak the truth. They confessed everything, buttook good care not to say which had led the other two into temptation.The king was so distressed when he heard it that he was almost overcomeby grief. But he took heart and tried to comfort his daughters, who lookedfrightened to death. He saw that what had happened had happened, and thata thousand words would not alter matters by a hair's breadth.Well, these events had almost been forgotten when one fine day a princefrom the East appeared at the court and asked the king for the hand of hiseldest daughter. The king gladly gave his consent. A great wedding banquetwas prepared, and after three days of feasting the happy pair wereaccompanied to the frontier with much ceremony and rejoicing.After some time the same thing befell the second daughter, who waswooed and won by a prince from the West.Now when the young princess saw that everything fell out exactly as hadbeen written in the book, she grew very sad. She refused to eat, and wouldnot put on her fine clothes nor go out walking, and declared that shewould rather die than become a laughing stock to the world. But the kingwould not allow her to do anything so wrong, and he comforted her in allpossible ways.So the time passed, till lo and behold! one fine day an enormous pigfrom the North walked into the palace, and going straight up to the kingsaid, "Hail! oh king. May your life be as prosperous and bright as sunriseon a clear day!""I am glad to see you well, friend," answered the king, "but what windhas brought you hither?""I come a wooing," replied the pig.Now the king was astonished to hear so fine a speech from a pig, and atonce it occurred to him that something strange was the matter. He wouldgladly have turned the pig's thoughts in another direction, as he did notwish to give him the princess for a wife. but when he heard that the courtand the whole street were full of all the pigs in the world he saw thatthere was no escape, and that he must give his consent. The pig was notsatisfied with mere promises, but insisted that the wedding should takeplace within a week, and would not go away till the king had sworn a royaloath upon it.The king then sent for his daughter, and advised her to submit to fate,as there was nothing else to be done. And he added, "My child, the wordsand whole behavior of this pig are quite unlike those of other pigs. I donot myself believe that he always was a pig. Depend upon it some magic orwitchcraft has been at work. Obey him, and do everything that he wishes,and I feel sure that Heaven will shortly send you release.""If you wish me to do this, dear father, I will do it," replied thegirl.In the meantime the wedding day drew near. After the marriage, the pigand his bride set out for his home in one of the royal carriages. On theway they passed a great bog, and the pig ordered the carriage to stop, andgot out and rolled about in the mire till he was covered with mud fromhead to foot. then he got back into the carriage and told his wife to kisshim. What was the poor girl to do? She bethought herself of her father'swords, and, pulling out her pocket handkerchief, she gently wiped thepig's snout and kissed it.By the time they reached the pig's dwelling, which stood in a thickwood, it was quite dark. They sat down quietly for a little, as they weretired after their drive. then they had supper together, and lay down torest. During the night the princess noticed that the pig had changed intoa man. She was not a little surprised, but remembering her father's words,she took courage, determined to wait and see what would happen.And now she noticed that every night the pig became a man, and everymorning he was changed into a pig before she awoke. This happened severalnights running, and the princess could not understand it at all. Clearlyher husband must be bewitched. In time she grew quite fond of him, he wasso kind and gentle.One fine day as she was sitting alone she saw an old witch go past. Shefelt quite excited, as it was so long since she had seen a human being,and she called out to the old woman to come and talk to her. Among otherthings the witch told her that she understood all magic arts, and that shecould foretell the future, and knew the healing powers of herbs andplants."I shall be grateful to you all my life, old dame," said the princess,"if you will tell me what is the matter with my husband. Why is he a pigby day and a human being by night?""I was just going to tell you that one thing, my dear, to show you whata good fortuneteller I am. If you like, I will give you a herb to breakthe spell.""If you will only give it to me," said the princess, "I will give youanything you choose to ask for, for I cannot bear to see him in thisstate.""Here, then, my dear child," said the witch, "take this thread, but donot let him know about it, for if he did it would lose its healing power.At night, when he is asleep, you must get up very quietly, and fasten thethread round his left foot as firmly as possible. and you will see in themorning he will not have changed back into a pig, but will still be a man.I do not want any reward. I shall be sufficiently repaid by knowing thatyou are happy. It almost breaks my heart to think of all you havesuffered, and I only wish I had known it sooner, as I should have come toyour rescue at once."When the old witch had gone away the princess hid the thread verycarefully, and at night she got up quietly, and with a beating heart shebound the thread round her husband's foot. Just as she was pulling theknot tight there was a crack, and the thread broke, for it was rotten.Her husband awoke with a start, and said to her, "Unhappy woman, whathave you done? Three days more and this unholy spell would have fallenfrom me, and now, who knows how long I may have to go about in thisdisgusting shape? I must leave you at once, and we shall not meet againuntil you have worn out three pairs of iron shoes and blunted a steelstaff in your search for me." So saying he disappeared.Now, when the princess was left alone she began to weep and moan in away that was pitiful to hear. but when she saw that her tears and groansdid her no good, she got up, determined to go wherever fate should leadher.On reaching a town, the first thing she did was to order three pairs ofiron sandals and a steel staff, and having made these preparations for herjourney, she set out in search of her husband. On and on she wandered overnine seas and across nine continents. through forests with trees whosestems were as thick as beer barrels. stumbling and knocking herselfagainst the fallen branches, then picking herself up and going on. theboughs of the trees hit her face, and the shrubs tore her hands, but onshe went, and never looked back. At last, wearied with her long journeyand worn out and overcome with sorrow, but still with hope at her heart,she reached a house.Now who do you think lived there? The moon.The princess knocked at the door, and begged to be let in that shemight rest a little. The mother of the moon, when she saw her sad plight,felt a great pity for her, and took her in and nursed and tended her. Andwhile she was here the princess had a little baby.One day the mother of the moon asked her, "How was it possible for you,a mortal, to get hither to the house of the moon?"Then the poor princess told her all that happened to her, and added "Ishall always be thankful to Heaven for leading me hither, and grateful toyou that you took pity on me and on my baby, and did not leave us to die.Now I beg one last favor of you. can your daughter, the moon, tell mewhere my husband is?""She cannot tell you that, my child," replied the goddess, "but, if youwill travel towards the East until you reach the dwelling of the sun, hemay be able to tell you something."Then she gave the princess a roast chicken to eat, and warned her to bevery careful not to lose any of the bones, because they might be of greatuse to her.When the princess had thanked her once more for her hospitality and forher good advice, and had thrown away one pair of shoes that were worn out,and had put on a second pair, she tied up the chicken bones in a bundle,and taking her baby in her arms and her staff in her hand, she set outonce more on her wanderings.On and on and on she went across bare sandy deserts, where the roadswere so heavy that for every two steps that she took forwards she fellback one. but she struggled on till she had passed these dreary plains.next she crossed high rocky mountains, jumping from crag to crag and frompeak to peak. Sometimes she would rest for a little on a mountain, andthen start afresh always farther and farther on. She had to cross swampsand to scale mountain peaks covered with flints, so that her feet andknees and elbows were all torn and bleeding, and sometimes she came to aprecipice across which she could not jump, and she had to crawl round onhands and knees, helping herself along with her staff.At length, wearied to death, she reached the palace in which the sunlived. She knocked and begged for admission. The mother of the sun openedthe door, and was astonished at beholding a mortal from the distantearthly shores, and wept with pity when she heard of all she had suffered.Then, having promised to ask her son about the princess's husband, she hidher in the cellar, so that the sun might notice nothing on his returnhome, for he was always in a bad temper when he came in at night.The next day the princess feared that things would not go well withher, for the sun had noticed that some one from the other world had beenin the palace. But his mother had soothed him with soft words, assuringhim that this was not so. So the princess took heart when she saw howkindly she was treated, and asked, "But how in the world is itpossible for the sun to be angry? He is so beautiful and so good tomortals.""This is how it happens," replied the sun's mother. "In the morningwhen he stands at the gates of paradise he is happy, and smiles on thewhole world, but during the day he gets cross, because he sees all theevil deeds of men, and that is why his heat becomes so scorching. but inthe evening he is both sad and angry, for he stands at the gates of death.that is his usual course. From there he comes back here."She then told the princess that she had asked about her husband, butthat her son had replied that he knew nothing about him, and that her onlyhope was to go and inquire of the wind.Before the princess left the mother of the sun gave her a roast chickento eat, and advised her to take great care of the bones, which she did,wrapping them up in a bundle. She then threw away her second pair ofshoes, which were quite worn out, and with her child on her arm and herstaff in her hand, she set forth on her way to the wind.In these wanderings she met with even greater difficulties than before,for she came upon one mountain of flints after another, out of whichtongues of fire would flame up. she passed through woods which had neverbeen trodden by human foot, and had to cross fields of ice and avalanchesof snow. The poor woman nearly died of these hardships, but she kept abrave heart, and at length she reached an enormous cave in the side of amountain. This was where the wind lived. There was a little door in therailing in front of the cave, and here the princess knocked and begged foradmission. The mother of the wind had pity on her and took her in, thatshe might rest a little. Here too she was hidden away, so that the windmight not notice her.The next morning the mother of the wind told her that her husband wasliving in a thick wood, so thick that no axe had been able to cut a waythrough it. here he had built himself a sort of house by placing trunks oftrees together and fastening them with withes and here he lived alone,shunning human kind.After the mother of the wind had given the princess a chicken to eat,and had warned her to take care of the bones, she advised her to go by theMilky Way, which at night lies across the sky, and to wander on till shereached her goal.Having thanked the old woman with tears in her eyes for herhospitality, and for the good news she had given her, the princess set outon her journey and rested neither night nor day, so great was her longingto see her husband again. On and on she walked until her last pair ofshoes fell in pieces. So she threw them away and went on with bare feet,not heeding the bogs nor the thorns that wounded her, nor the stones thatbruised her. At last she reached a beautiful green meadow on the edge of awood. Her heart was cheered by the sight of the flowers and the soft coolgrass, and she sat down and rested for a little. But hearing the birdschirping to their mates among the trees made her think with longing of herhusband, and she wept bitterly, and taking her child in her arms, and herbundle of chicken bones on her shoulder, she entered the wood.For three days and three nights she struggled through it, but couldfind nothing. She was quite worn out with weariness and hunger, and evenher staff was no further help to her, for in her many wanderings it hadbecome quite blunted. She almost gave up in despair, but made one lastgreat effort, and suddenly in a thicket she came upon the sort of housethat the mother of the wind had described. It had no windows, and the doorwas up in the roof. Round the house she went, in search of steps, butcould find none. What was she to do? How was she to get in? She thoughtand thought, and tried in vain to climb up to the door. Then suddenly shebethought her of the chicken bones that she had dragged all that wearyway, and she said to herself, "They would not all have told me to takesuch good care of these bones if they had not had some good reason fordoing so. Perhaps now, in my hour of need, they may be of use to me."So she took the bones out of her bundle, and having thought for amoment, she placed the two ends together. To her surprise they stucktight. then she added the other bones, till she had two long poles theheight of the house. these she placed against the wall, at a distance of ayard from one another. Across them she placed the other bones, piece bypiece, like the steps of a ladder. As soon as one step was finished shestood upon it and made the next one, and then the next, till she was closeto the door. But just as she got near the top she noticed that there wereno bones left for the last rung of the ladder. What was she to do? Withoutthat last step the whole ladder was useless. She must have lost one of thebones. Then suddenly an idea came to her. Taking a knife she chopped offher little finger, and placing it on the last step, it stuck as the boneshad done. The ladder was complete, and with her child on her arm sheentered the door of the house. Here she found everything in perfect order.Having taken some food, she laid the child down to sleep in a trough thatwas on the floor, and sat down herself to rest.When her husband, the pig, came back to his house, he was startled bywhat he saw. At first he could not believe his eyes, and stared at theladder of bones, and at the little finger on the top of it. He felt thatsome fresh magic must be at work, and in his terror he almost turned awayfrom the house. but then a better idea came to him, and he changed himselfinto a dove, so that no witchcraft could have power over him, and flewinto the room without touching the ladder. Here he found a woman rocking achild. At the sight of her, looking so changed by all that she hadsuffered for his sake, his heart was moved by such love and longing and byso great a pity that he suddenly became a man.The princess stood up when she saw him. and her heart beat with fear,for she did not know him. But when he had told her who he was, in hergreat joy she forgot all her sufferings, and they seemed as nothing toher. He was a very handsome man, as straight as a fir tree. They sat downtogether and she told him all her adventures, and he wept with pity at thetale. And then he told her his own history."I am a king's son. Once when my father was fighting against somedragons, who were the scourge of our country, I slew the youngest dragon.His mother, who was a witch, cast a spell over me and changed me into apig. It was she who in the disguise of an old woman gave you the thread tobind round my foot. So that instead of the three days that had to runbefore the spell was broken, I was forced to remain a pig for three moreyears. Now that we have suffered for each other, and have found each otheragain, let us forget the past."And in their joy they kissed one another.Next morning they set out early to return to his father's kingdom.Great was the rejoicing of all the people when they saw him and his wife.his father and his mother embraced them both, and there was feasting inthe palace for three days and three nights.Then they set out to see her father. The old king nearly went out ofhis mind with joy at beholding his daughter again. When she had told himall her adventures, he said to her, "Did not I tell you that I was quitesure that that creature who wooed and won you as his wife had not beenborn a pig? You see, my child, how wise you were in doing what I toldyou."And as the king was old and had no heirs, he put them on the throne inhis place. And they ruled as only kings rule who have suffered manythings. And if they are not dead they are still living and ruling happily.