Juan was always getting into trouble. He was a lazy boy, and more thanthat, he did not have good sense. When he tried to do things, he made suchdreadful mistakes that he might better not have tried.His family grew very impatient with him, scolding and beating himwhenever he did anything wrong. One day his mother, who was almostdiscouraged with him, gave him a bolo (a long knife) and sent him to theforest, for she thought he could at least cut firewood. Juan walkedleisurely along, contemplating some means of escape. At last he came to atree that seemed easy to cut, and then he drew his long knife and preparedto work.Now it happened that this was a magic tree, and it said to Juan, "Ifyou do not cut me I will give you a goat that shakes silver from itswhiskers."This pleased Juan wonderfully, both because he was curious to see thegoat, and because he would not have to chop the wood. He agreed at once tospare the tree, whereupon the bark separated, and a goat stepped out. Juancommanded it to shake its whiskers, and when the money began to drop, hewas so delighted that he took the animal and started home to show histreasure to his mother.On the way he met a friend who was more cunning than Juan, and when heheard of the boy's rich goat he decided to rob him. Knowing Juan'sfondness for tuba (fermented coconut juice), he persuaded him to drink,and while he was drunk, the friend substituted another goat for the magicone.As soon as he was sober again, Juan hastened home with the goat andtold his people of the wonderful tree, but when he commanded the animal toshake its whiskers, no money fell out. The family, believing it to beanother of Juan's tricks, beat and scolded the poor boy.He went back to the tree and threatened to cut it down for lying tohim, but the tree said, "No, do not cut me down, and I will give you a netwhich you may cast on dry ground, or even in the treetops, and it willreturn full of fish."So Juan spared the tree and started home with his precious net, but onthe way he met the same friend who again persuaded him to drink tuba.While he was drunk, the friend replaced the magic net with a common one,so that when Juan reached home and tried to show his power, he was againthe subject of ridicule.Once more Juan went to his tree, this time determined to cut it down.But the offer of a magic pot, always full of rice, and spoons whichprovided whatever he wished to eat with his rice, dissuaded him, and hestarted home happier than ever. Before reaching home, however, he met withthe same fate as before, and his folks, who were becoming tired of hispranks, beat him harder than ever.Thoroughly angered, Juan sought the tree a fourth time and was on thepoint of cutting it down when once more it arrested his attention. Aftersome discussion, he consented to accept a stick to which he had only tosay, "Boombye, Boomba," and it would beat and kill anything he wished.When he met his friend on this trip, he was asked what he had, and hereplied, "Oh, it is only a stick, but if I say 'Boombye, Boomba' it willbeat you to death."At the sound of the magic words the stick leaped from his hands andbegan beating his friend until he cried, "Oh, stop it, and I will giveback everything that I stole from you."Juan ordered the stick to stop, and then he compelled the man to leadthe goat and to carry the net and the jar and spoons to his home.There Juan commanded the goat, and it shook its whiskers until hismother and brothers had all the silver they could carry. Then they atefrom the magic jar and spoons until they were filled. And this time Juanwas not scolded. After they had finished Juan said, "You have beaten meand scolded me all my life, and now you are glad to accept my good things.I am going to show you something else, 'Boombye, Boomba.'"Immediately the stick leaped out and beat them all until they beggedfor mercy and promised that Juan should ever after be head of thehouse.From that time Juan was rich and powerful, but he never went anywherewithout his stick. One night, when some thieves came to his house, hewould have been robbed and killed had it not been for the magic words"Boombye, Boomba," which caused the death of all the robbers.Some time after this he married a beautiful princess, and because ofthe kindness of the magic tree they always lived happily.