In a certain forest there once lived a fierce tiger, which was in thehabit of hunting down the rest of the animals for meresport, whether hunger impelled him thereto or not. All the animals,therefore, met together by common consent to consider theirgrievances."Let us agree," said the jackal, "that one of us shall be chosen by lotday by day as a sacrifice to the tiger.""All right," assented the others, "but first let us see the tiger, andlet us offer him a petition."So they all marched together to the tiger's den and humbly sought himto refrain from indiscriminate slaughter, and to besatisfied with the animal which should voluntarily come to him day by day."Do not hunt us poor fellows down," said they, "for one of us willalways come to be devoured by you, and this plan willsave you trouble as well.""No, no," cried the tiger. "I shall use my claws and my teeth, and soeat my food.""But," answered the animals, "God has said that we ought to live inhope.""True," answered the tiger, "but he has also bidden everyone to earnhis own bread."At last, after much argument, the tiger suffered himself to bepersuaded, and made a solemn promise to remain at home inhis den. Thenceforward every day an animal chosen by lot went to the dento be eaten.But when the hare's turn came, she flatly said, "I shall not go. Ishall live my life."In vain the other animals tried to persuade or coerce her. Twelveo'clock, the tiger's usual feeding time, came and went, thencame one, two, and three.At last the hare suddenly started up, and exclaiming "Now I'm off!" sheset out for the den.As she drew near she noticed the famished tiger tearing up the earth infury, and heard him bellowing, "Who is this ridiculoushare to keep me waiting?""But I have an excuse," protested the hare."What excuse can you have?" demanded the tiger."Today," said the hare, "it was not my turn to come at all. It was mybrother's. I am thin, but my brother is plump and fat.My brother had started for your den, but on the way he fell in withanother tiger which wanted to eat him, and, in fact, he caughthim and was carrying him away, when I came up and said to him, 'Thiscountry is not your country, but the country of anothertiger who will punish you.' To which the strange tiger answered, 'You goat once and call that tiger of yours out, and then he andI shall have a fight.' So here I am, sir, sent to deliver his challenge.Come and kill the villain for us."Full of rage and jealousy, the tiger said to the hare, "Lead on!" andthe pair started forth to seek the rival tiger.As they went along, the hare began to look alarmed and shrink back, andmade as though she would have hidden herself ina thicket."What is the matter now?" inquired the tiger. "What are you afraid of?""I am afraid," answered she, "because the other tiger's den lies closein front of us.""Where? Where?" cried the tiger, peering forward with searching eyes."I see no den whatever.""It is there. See!" answered the hare. "Almost at your very feet!""I can see no den," said the tiger. "Is there no means of persuadingyou to come forward and show me the place?""Yes," replied the hare, "if you will please carry me under your arm."So the tiger lifted the cunning hare under his arm, and, guided by herdirections, he unexpectedly found himself at the edgeof a large deep well."The is the den I told you of," whispered the hare. "Look in and youwill see the robber."Standing on the brink and looking down into the clear depths, the tigersaw at the bottom the reflected image of himself andthe hare, and imagining that he saw his enemy in proud possession of thefat brother, he dropped the nimble hare, which easilyescaped, and with a roar leaped down, where, after struggling in the waterfor many hours, he finally expired, and thus the forestwas at last rid of the tyrant.