A camel driver, crossing the plains, stopped to rest where a caravanhad halted and built a fire the night before. in the morning they hadmoved on before it had died out. As the night wind arose, it fanned thesparks and soon set all the brushwood around on fire. In the midst of thebrushwood lay coiled an adder, fast asleep. The flames, however, soonawoke him, but not until he was completely encircled by the fire. He wasabout to despair of his life, when he saw the camel driver and called uponhim for aid. At first the camel driver hesitated, for he remembered thepoisonous sting of the adder. Still, he could not bear to see any livingcreature suffer, so he promised to help the adder. He had a bag beneathhis saddle. This he now drew forth and tied to the end of his spear. Hethen reached it over into the midst of the burning brush. the addercrawled inside, and the camel driver drew him safely out of the fire."Now go your way," said the camel driver, loosening the neck of the bagso that the adder could glide out. "Only remember the kindness which Ihave shown to you, and do you hereafter be kind to men in your turn.""I confess," replied the adder, slipping out on the ground, "that youhave been kind to me, and yet I shall not go away until I have stung bothyou and your camel. I only leave it to you to decide whether I shall stingyou first or the camel.""What a monster of ingratitude you are!" cried the camel driver. "Is itright to return evil for good?"Such is the custom of men," said the adder."You are not only ungrateful, but untruthful as well," the camel drivermade reply. "It would be hard indeed for you to prove these words ofyours. There is no other creature in the world, I venture to say, who willagree with you. If you can find out one other, I will allow you to stingme.""Very well," responded the adder. "let us put the question to yondercow."The cow stopped chewing her cud. "If you mean what is man's custom,"she began, in answer to their question, "I must answer to my sorrow thathe is wont to repay evil for good. For many years I have been the faithfulservant of a farmer. Every day I have supplied him with milk to drink andrich cream for his butter. Now I am old and no longer able to serve him.So he has put me out in this pasture that I may grow fat, and onlyyesterday he brought the butcher to see me. Tomorrow I am to be sold forbeef. Surely this is repaying my kindness with evil.""You see," said the adder to the camel driver, "that what I said istrue. Get ready for me to sting you. Shall it be you or the camelfirst?""Hold," replied the camel driver. "In court a decree is not passedwithout the testimony of two witnesses. Bring another witness, and if heagrees with the cow, you may do with me as you please."The adder looked about him and saw that they were standing beneath ahuge palm tree. "Let us put the question to the tree," he said.When the palm had heard their question, he shook his great branchessadly. "Experience has taught me," he moaned, "that for every favor you doto men, you must expect some injury in return. I stand here in the desert,doing harm to none and good to many. Every traveler who comes by can restbeneath my shade. I bear dates for his refreshment, and gladly give my sapto quench his thirst. Yet when the traveler has eaten and slept beneath myshade, he looks up into my branches and says to himself, 'That branchwould make me a good cane, or handle for my ax,' or 'What splendid woodthere is in this tree! I must cut off a limb to make some new doors for myhouse.' And I must consent to this without a murmur. Thus is my kindnessreturned by men.""The two witnesses have now testified," spoke the adder, "and agree.Which shall I bite first, you or the camel?"But just at that moment a fox ran by, and the camel driver pleaded thatthey might hear one more testimony. The adder was so pleased with what thecow and the tree had said, that he readily agreed to listen to thefox.When the camel driver had finished telling the whole tale to the fox,the fox laughed out loud. "You seem to be a clever fellow," he replied tothe camel driver. "Why do you tell me such a falsehood?""Indeed, he is telling you nothing but the truth," the adder hastenedto assure the fox.Again the fox laughed outright. "Do you mean to tell me," he askedscornfully, "that such a large adder as you could possibly get into such asmall bag?""If you do not believe it, I will crawl in again and show you,"answered the adder."Well," responded the fox, thoughtfully, "if I see you in there with myown eyes, then I will consent to give my answer to your question."The camel driver straightway held the bag open, and the adder crept inand coiled up in the bottom."Be quick now," cried the fox, "and draw the string. Any creature solacking in gratitude as this adder deserves nothing but death."