Long, long ago in Japan there lived an old man and his wife. The oldman was a good, kind hearted, hard working old fellow, but his wife wasa regular cross patch, who spoiled the happiness of her home by herscolding tongue. She was always grumbling about something from morningto night. The old man had for a long time ceased to take any notice ofher crossness. He was out most of the day at work in the fields, and ashe had no child, for his amusement when he came home, he kept a tamesparrow. He loved the little bird just as much as if she had been hischild.When he came back at night after his hard day's work in the open air itwas his only pleasure to pet the sparrow, to talk to her and to teachher little tricks, which she learned very quickly. The old man wouldopen her cage and let her fly about the room, and they would playtogether. Then when supper time came, he always saved some tit bitsfrom his meal with which to feed his little bird.Now one day the old man went out to chop wood in the forest, and theold woman stopped at home to wash clothes. The day before, she had madesome starch, and now when she came to look for it, it was all gone. thebowl which she had filled full yesterday was quite empty.While she was wondering who could have used or stolen the starch, downflew the pet sparrow, and bowing her little feathered head a trickwhich she had been taught by her master the pretty bird chirped andsaid:"It is I who have taken the starch. I thought it was some food put outfor me in that basin, and I ate it all. If I have made a mistake I begyou to forgive me! tweet, tweet, tweet!"You see from this that the sparrow was a truthful bird, and the oldwoman ought to have been willing to forgive her at once when she askedher pardon so nicely. But not so.The old woman had never loved the sparrow, and had often quarreled withher husband for keeping what she called a dirty bird about the house,saying that it only made extra work for her. Now she was only toodelighted to have some cause of complaint against the pet. She scoldedand even cursed the poor little bird for her bad behavior, and notcontent with using these harsh, unfeeling words, in a fit of rage sheseized the sparrow who all this time had spread out her wings andbowed her head before the old woman, to show how sorry she was andfetched the scissors and cut off the poor little bird's tongue."I suppose you took my starch with that tongue! Now you may see what itis like to go without it!" And with these dreadful words she drove thebird away, not caring in the least what might happen to it and withoutthe smallest pity for its suffering, so unkind was she!The old woman, after she had driven the sparrow away, made some morerice paste, grumbling all the time at the trouble, and after starchingall her clothes, spread the things on boards to dry in the sun, insteadof ironing them as they do in England.In the evening the old man came home. As usual, on the way back helooked forward to the time when he should reach his gate and see hispet come flying and chirping to meet him, ruffling out her feathers toshow her joy, and at last coming to rest on his shoulder. But to nightthe old man was very disappointed, for not even the shadow of his dearsparrow was to be seen.He quickened his steps, hastily drew off his straw sandals, and steppedon to the veranda. Still no sparrow was to be seen. He now felt surethat his wife, in one of her cross tempers, had shut the sparrow up inits cage. So he called her and said anxiously:"Where is Suzume San (Miss Sparrow) today?"The old woman pretended not to know at first, and answered:"Your sparrow? I am sure I don't know. Now I come to think of it, Ihaven't seen her all the afternoon. I shouldn't wonder if theungrateful bird had flown away and left you after all your petting!"But at last, when the old man gave her no peace, but asked her againand again, insisting that she must know what had happened to his pet,she confessed all. She told him crossly how the sparrow had eaten therice paste she had specially made for starching her clothes, and howwhen the sparrow had confessed to what she had done, in great anger shehad taken her scissors and cut out her tongue, and how finally she haddriven the bird away and forbidden her to return to the house again.Then the old woman showed her husband the sparrow's tongue, saying:"Here is the tongue I cut off! Horrid little bird, why did it eat allmy starch?""How could you be so cruel? Oh! how could you so cruel?" was all thatthe old man could answer. He was too kind hearted to punish his beshrew of a wife, but he was terribly distressed at what had happened tohis poor little sparrow."What a dreadful misfortune for my poor Suzume San to lose her tongue!"he said to himself. "She won't be able to chirp any more, and surelythe pain of the cutting of it out in that rough way must have made herill! Is there nothing to be done?"The old man shed many tears after his cross wife had gone to sleep.While he wiped away the tears with the sleeve of his cotton robe, abright thought comforted him: he would go and look for the sparrow onthe morrow. Having decided this he was able to go to sleep at last.The next morning he rose early, as soon as ever the day broke, andsnatching a hasty breakfast, started out over the hills and through thewoods, stopping at every clump of bamboos to cry:"Where, oh where does my tongue cut sparrow stay? Where, oh where, doesmy tongue cut sparrow stay!"He never stopped to rest for his noonday meal, and it was far on in theafternoon when he found himself near a large bamboo wood. Bamboo grovesare the favorite haunts of sparrows, and there sure enough at the edgeof the wood he saw his own dear sparrow waiting to welcome him. Hecould hardly believe his eyes for joy, and ran forward quickly to greether. She bowed her little head and went through a number of the tricksher master had taught her, to show her pleasure at seeing her oldfriend again, and, wonderful to relate, she could talk as of old. Theold man told her how sorry he was for all that had happened, andinquired after her tongue, wondering how she could speak so wellwithout it. Then the sparrow opened her beak and showed him that a newtongue had grown in place of the old one, and begged him not to thinkany more about the past, for she was quite well now. Then the old manknew that his sparrow was a fairy, and no common bird. It would bedifficult to exaggerate the old man's rejoicing now. He forgot all histroubles, he forgot even how tired he was, for he had found his lostsparrow, and instead of being ill and without a tongue as he had fearedand expected to find her, she was well and happy and with a new tongue,and without a sign of the ill treatment she had received from his wife.And above all she was a fairy.The sparrow asked him to follow her, and flying before him she led himto a beautiful house in the heart of the bamboo grove. The old man wasutterly astonished when he entered the house to find what a beautifulplace it was. It was built of the whitest wood, the soft cream coloredmats which took the place of carpets were the finest he had ever seen,and the cushions that the sparrow brought out for him to sit on weremade of the finest silk and crape. Beautiful vases and lacquer boxesadorned the tokonoma of every room.An alcove where precious objects are displayed.The sparrow led the old man to the place of honor, and then, taking herplace at a humble distance, she thanked him with many polite bows forall the kindness he had shown her for many long years.Then the Lady Sparrow, as we will now call her, introduced all herfamily to the old man. This done, her daughters, robed in dainty crapegowns, brought in on beautiful old fashioned trays a feast of all kindsof delicious foods, till the old man began to think he must bedreaming. In the middle of the dinner some of the sparrow's daughtersperformed a wonderful dance, called the "suzume odori" or the"Sparrow's dance," to amuse the guest.Never had the old man enjoyed himself so much. The hours flew by tooquickly in this lovely spot, with all these fairy sparrows to wait uponhim and to feast him and to dance before him.But the night came on and the darkness reminded him that he had a longway to go and must think about taking his leave and return home. Hethanked his kind hostess for her splendid entertainment, and begged herfor his sake to forget all she had suffered at the hands of his crossold wife. He told the Lady Sparrow that it was a great comfort andhappiness to him to find her in such a beautiful home and to know thatshe wanted for nothing. It was his anxiety to know how she fared andwhat had really happened to her that had led him to seek her. Now heknew that all was well he could return home with a light heart. If evershe wanted him for anything she had only to send for him and he wouldcome at once.The Lady Sparrow begged him to stay and rest several days and enjoy thechange, but the old man said he must return to his old wife who wouldprobably be cross at his not coming home at the usual time and to hiswork, and there fore, much as he wished to do so, he could not accepther kind invitation. But now that he knew where the Lady Sparrow livedhe would come to see her whenever he had the time.When the Lady Sparrow saw that she could not persuade the old man tostay longer, she gave an order to some of her servants, and they atonce brought in two boxes, one large and the other small. These wereplaced before the old man, and the Lady Sparrow asked him to choosewhichever he liked for a present, which she wished to give him.The old man could not refuse this kind proposal, and he chose thesmaller box, saying:"I am now too old and feeble to carry the big and heavy box. As you areso kind as to say that I may take whichever I like, I will choose thesmall one, which will be easier for me to carry."Then the sparrows all helped him put it on his back and went to thegate to see him off, bidding him good by with many bows and entreatinghim to come again whenever he had the time. Thus the old man and hispet sparrow separated quite happily, the sparrow showing not the leastill will for all the unkindness she had suffered at the hands of theold wife. Indeed, she only felt sorrow for the old man who had to putup with it all his life.When the old man reached home he found his wife even crosser thanusual, for it was late on in the night and she had been waiting up forhim for a long time."Where have you been all this time?" she asked in a big voice. "Why doyou come back so late?"The old man tried to pacify her by showing her the box of presents hehad brought back with him, and then he told her of all that hadhappened to him, and how wonderfully he had been entertained at thesparrow's house."Now let us see what is in the box," said the old man, not giving hertime to grumble again. "You must help me open it." And they both satdown before the box and opened it.To their utter astonishment they found the box filled to the brim withgold and silver coins and many other precious things. The mats of theirlittle cottage fairly glittered as they took out the things one by oneand put them down and handled them over and over again. The old man wasoverjoyed at the sight of the riches that were now his. Beyond hisbrightest expectations was the sparrow's gift, which would enable himto give up work and live in ease and comfort the rest of his days.He said: "Thanks to my good little sparrow! Thanks to my good littlesparrow!" many times.But the old woman, after the first moments of surprise and satisfactionat the sight of the gold and silver were over, could not suppress thegreed of her wicked nature. She now began to reproach the old man fornot having brought home the big box of presents, for in the innocenceof his heart he had told her how he had refused the large box ofpresents which the sparrows had offered him, preferring the smaller onebecause it was light and easy to carry home."You silly old man," said she, "Why did you not bring the large box?Just think what we have lost. We might have had twice as much silverand gold as this. You are certainly an old fool!" she screamed, andthen went to bed as angry as she could be.The old man now wished that he had said nothing about the big box, butit was too late. the greedy old woman, not contented with the good luckwhich had so unexpectedly befallen them and which she so littledeserved, made up her mind, if possible, to get more.Early the next morning she got up and made the old man describe the wayto the sparrow's house. When he saw what was in her mind he tried tokeep her from going, but it was useless. She would not listen to oneword he said. It is strange that the old woman did not feel ashamed ofgoing to see the sparrow after the cruel way she had treated her incutting off her tongue in a fit of rage. But her greed to get the bigbox made her forget everything else. It did not even enter her thoughtsthat the sparrows might be angry with her as, indeed, they were andmight punish her for what she had done.Ever since the Lady Sparrow had returned home in the sad plight inwhich they had first found her, weeping and bleeding from the mouth,her whole family and relations had done little else but speak of thecruelty of the old woman. "How could she," they asked each other,"inflict such a heavy punishment for such a trifling offense as that ofeating some rice paste by mistake?" They all loved the old man who wasso kind and good and patient under all his troubles, but the old womanthey hated, and they determined, if ever they had the chance, to punishher as she deserved. They had not long to wait.After walking for some hours the old woman had at last found the bamboogrove which she had made her husband carefully describe, and now shestood before it crying out:"Where is the tongue cut sparrow's house? Where is the tongue cutsparrow's house?"At last she saw the eaves of the house peeping out from amongst thebamboo foliage. She hastened to the door and knocked loudly.When the servants told the Lady Sparrow that her old mistress was atthe door asking to see her, she was somewhat surprised at theunexpected visit, after all that had taken place, and she wondered nota little at the boldness of the old woman in venturing to come to thehouse. The Lady Sparrow, however, was a polite bird, and so she wentout to greet the old woman, remembering that she had once been hermistress.The old woman intended, however, to waste no time in words, she wentright to the point, without the least shame, and said:"You need not trouble to entertain me as you did my old man. I havecome myself to get the box which he so stupidly left behind. I shallsoon take my leave if you will give me the big box that is all I want!"The Lady Sparrow at once consented, and told her servants to bring outthe big box. The old woman eagerly seized it and hoisted it on herback, and without even stopping to thank the Lady Sparrow began tohurry homewards.The box was so heavy that she could not walk fast, much less run, asshe would have liked to do, so anxious was she to get home and see whatwas inside the box, but she had often to sit down and rest herself bythe way.While she was staggering along under the heavy load, her desire to openthe box became too great to be resisted. She could wait no longer, forshe supposed this big box to be full of gold and silver and preciousjewels like the small one her husband had received.At last this greedy and selfish old woman put down the box by thewayside and opened it carefully, expecting to gloat her eyes on a mineof wealth. What she saw, however, so terrified her that she nearly losther senses. As soon as she lifted the lid, a number of horrible andfrightful looking demons bounced out of the box and surrounded her asif they intended to kill her. Not even in nightmares had she ever seensuch horrible creatures as her much coveted box contained. A demon withone huge eye right in the middle of its forehead came and glared ather, monsters with gaping mouths looked as if they would devour her, ahuge snake coiled and hissed about her, and a big frog hopped andcroaked towards her.The old woman had never been so frightened in her life, and ran fromthe spot as fast as her quaking legs would carry her, glad to escapealive. When she reached home she fell to the floor and told her husbandwith tears all that had happened to her, and how she had been nearlykilled by the demons in the box.Then she began to blame the sparrow, but the old man stopped her atonce, saying:"Don't blame the sparrow, it is your wickedness which has at last metwith its reward. I only hope this may be a lesson to you in the future!"The old woman said nothing more, and from that day she repented of hercross, unkind ways, and by degrees became a good old woman, so that herhusband hardly knew her to be the same person, and they spent theirlast days together happily, free from want or care, spending carefullythe treasure the old man had received from his pet, the tongue cutsparrow.