In times long past there was a very greedy jackal, which used to roamin the forest, and even in places uninhabited by men. At length he madehis way into the house of a dyer, and fell into an indigo vat. After hehad escaped he lay down to sleep on a neighboring dunghill. Having tossedabout thereon, so that his body became ever so unshapely, he jumped intothe water. When he had come out, and had been exposed to the rays of thesun, he acquired the color of cyanite.When the other jackals saw him, they dispersed and stood afar off, andasked, "Who are you? Where do you come from?"He replied, "My name is Sataga, and I have been appointed king of thefour footed beasts by Sakra, the king of the gods."The jackals considered that, as his body was of a color never beforeseen, this must be true, and they made all the four footed beastacquainted with the fact.The lions thought, "If someone is exalted above us and made the king ofthe beasts, we must go and carry this news to the chief of our band." Sothey told the news to the maned chief of their band, who dwelt in acertain hill district. He ordered the other beasts to go forth and findout whether any animal had seen this chieftain of the four footed. So theybetook themselves to where the jackal was, and made inquiries. And theyperceived the jackal, like unto nothing ever seen before, surrounded byall the four footed creatures except the lions. Then they returned totheir chief and told him what they had seen. and he, when he had listenedto them, betook himself, surrounded by the band of lions, to where thejackal was. The jackal, surrounded by many quadrupeds, rode along on anelephant, with the lions around him, and then the tigers and otherquadrupeds. The jackals formed a circle round him at a greaterdistance.Now the jackal's mother dwelt in a certain mountain ravine. Her sonsent a jackal to her, and invited her to come, now that he had obtainedthe sovereign power.She asked what was the nature of his surroundings.The messenger replied, "The inner circle is formed of lions, tigers,and elephants, but the outer of jackals."She said, "So much for things not following their proper order." Shealso said in verse:I live here comfortably in the mountain ravine,and amid cool waters enjoy my good fortune.So long as he utters no jackal's cry,the elephant will let him retain his prosperity.The messenger jackal said to the jackals, "This king of the four footedis only another jackal. I have seen his mother who dwells in such a such amountain ravine."They replied, "In that case we will test him and see whether he is ajackal or not."Now it is according to the nature of things that jackals, if they heara jackal howl without howling themselves, lose their hair. So the jackal,when he heard the other jackals lift up their voices, said to himself, "IfI utter no cry, my hair will certainly fall off. But if I get off theelephant and then begin to howl, he will kill me. So I will lift up myvoice where I am."So soon as, sitting on the elephant, he began to lift up his voice, theelephant perceived that it was a jackal that was riding on his back, so heflung him off and trampled him underfoot.A deity uttered this verse:He who keeps at a distancethose who should be near,and brings near thosewho should be at a distance,will be cast down,as the jackal was by the elephant.