A wild boar was wreaking havoc throughout the country. No one daredventure into the forest where it ran about. With its tusks it ripped topieces anyone who was bold enough to pursue it and attempt to kill it.Then the king proclaimed that anyone who could kill the boar would receivehis daughter for a wife.There were three brothers in the kingdom. The oldest was sly andclever. the second was of ordinary intelligence. but the third andyoungest was innocent and slow witted. They wanted to win the princess, sothey set forth to seek out the wild boar and kill it.The two oldest ones went together, while the youngest one went byhimself. When he entered the woods an old man approached him. He washolding a black lance in his hand, and said to him, "Take this lance andfearlessly attack the boar with it, and you will kill it." And that iswhat happened. He struck the boar with the lance, and it fell dead to theearth. Then he lifted it onto his shoulder, and cheerfully set off towardhome.On the way he came to a house where his brothers were making merry anddrinking wine. When they saw him with the boar on his back, they called tohim, "Come in and have a drink with us. You must be tired." The innocentsimpleton, not thinking about any danger, went inside and told them how hehad killed the boar with the black lance, and rejoiced in his goodfortune. That evening they returned home together. The two oldest onesplotted to kill their brother. They let him walk ahead of them, and whenthey came to a bridge just outside the city, they attacked him, strikinghim dead. They buried him beneath the bridge. Then the oldest one took theboar, carried it to the king, claimed that he had killed it, and receivedthe princess for a wife.Many years passed, but it was not to remain hidden. One day a shepherdwas crossing the bridge when he saw a little bone beneath him in the sand.It was so pure and snow white that he wanted it to make a mouthpiece from,so he climbed down and picked it up. Afterward he made a mouthpiece fromit for his horn, and when he put it to his lips to play, the little bonebegan to sing by itself:Oh, dear shepherdYou are blowing on my bone.My brothers struck me dead,And buried me beneath the bridge,To get the wild boarFor the daughter of the king.The shepherd took the horn to the king, and once again it sang the samewords. After hearing this, the king had his people dig under the bridge,and they soon uncovered the skeleton. The two wicked brothers confessedtheir crime and were thrown into the water. The murdered brother's boneswere laid to rest in a beautiful grave in the churchyard.