(_As told by an Irish Peasant._)There was a poor man there. He had a great family of sons. He had nomeans to put them forward. He had them at school. One day, when theywere coming from school, he thought that whichever of them was last atthe door he would keep him out. It was the youngest of the family thatwas last at the door. The father shut the door. He would not let him in.The boy went weeping. He would not let him in till night came. Thefather said he would never let him in that he had boys enough.The lad went away. He was walking till night. He came to a house on therugged side of a hill on a height, one feather giving it shelter andsupport. He went in. He got a place till morning. When he made hisbreakfast in the morning he was going. The man of the house made him apresent of a red pony, a saddle, and bridle. He went riding on the pony.He went away with himself."Now," said the pony, "whatever thing you may see before you, don'ttouch it."They went on with themselves. He saw a light before him on the highroad. When he came as far as the light, there was an open box on theroad, and a light coming out of it. He took up the box. There was a lockof hair in it."Are you going to take up the box?" said the pony."I am. I cannot go past it.""It's better for you to leave it," said the pony.He took up the box. He put it in his pocket. He was going with himself.A gentleman met him."Pretty is your little beast. Where are you going?""I am looking for service.""I am in want of one like you among the stable boys."He hired the lad. The lad said he must get room for the little beast inthe stable. The gentleman said he would get it. They went home then. Hehad eleven boys. When they were going out into the stable at ten o'clockeach of them took a light with him but he. He took no candle at all withhim.Each of them went into his own stable. When he went into his stable, heopened the box. He left it in a hole in the wall. The light was great.It was twice as much as in the other stables. There was wonder on theboys what was the reason of the light being so great, and he without acandle with him at all. They told the master they did not know what wasthe cause of the light with the last boy. They had given him no candle,and he had twice as much light as they had."Watch to morrow night what kind of light he has," said the master.They watched the night of the morrow. They saw the box in the hole thatwas in the wall, and the light coming out of the box. They told themaster. When the boys came to the house, the King asked him what was thereason why he did not take a candle with him to the stable, as well asthe other boys. The lad said he had a candle. The King said he had not.He asked him how he got the box from which the light came. He said hehad no box. The King said he had, and that he must give it to him. thathe would not keep him, unless he gave him the box. The boy gave it tohim. The King opened it. He drew out the lock of hair, in which was thelight."You must go," said the King, "and bring me the woman to whom the hairbelongs."The lad was troubled. He went out. He told the red pony."I told you not to take up the box. You will get more than that onaccount of the box. When you have made your breakfast to morrow, put thesaddle and bridle on me."When he made his breakfast on the morning of the morrow, he put saddleand bridle on the pony. He went till they came to three miles of sea."Keep a good hold now. I am going to give a jump over the sea. When Iarrive yonder, there is a fair on the strand. Everyone will be coming upto you to ask for a ride, because I am such a pretty little beast. Giveno one a ride. You will see a beautiful woman drawing near you, her inwhose hair was the wonderful light. She will come up to you. She willask you to let her ride for a while. Say you will, and welcome. When shecomes riding, I will be off."When she came to the sea, she cleared the three miles at a jump. Shecame upon the land opposite, and everyone was asking for a ride upon thebeast, she was that pretty. He was giving a ride to no one. He saw thatwoman in the midst of the people. She was drawing near. She asked himwould he give her a little riding. He said he would give it, and athousand welcomes. She went riding. She went quietly, till she got outof the crowd. When the pony came to the sea, she made the three milejump again, the beautiful woman along with her. She took her home to theKing. There was great joy on the King to see her. He took her into theparlour. She said to him she would not marry anyone until he would getthe bottle of healing water that was in the eastern world. The King saidto the lad he must go and bring the bottle of healing water that was inthe eastern world to the lady. The lad was troubled. He went to thepony. He told the pony he must go to the eastern world for the bottle ofhealing water that was in it, and bring it to the lady."My advice was good," said the pony, "on the day you took the box up.Put saddle and bridle on me."He went riding on her. They were going till they came to the sea. Shestood then."You must kill me," said the pony. "That, or I must kill you!""It is hard to me to kill you," said the boy. "If I kill you, there willbe no way to myself."He cut her down. He opened her up. She was not long opened when therecame two black ravens and one small one. The two ravens went into thebody. They drank their fill of the blood. When they came out, the littleraven went in. He closed up the pony. He would not let the little birdcome out till he got the bottle of healing water that was in the easternworld. The ravens were very troubled. They were begging him to let thelittle bird out. He said he would not let it out till they brought himthe bottle. They went to seek the bottle. They came back, and there wasno bottle with them. They were entreating him to let the bird out tothem. He would not let out the bird till he got the bottle. They wentaway again for the bottle. They came again at evening. They were tossedand scorched, and they had the bottle. They came to the place where thepony was. They gave the bottle to the boy. He rubbed the healing waterto every place where they were burned. Then he let out the little bird.There was great joy on them to see him. He rubbed some of the healingwater to the place where he cut the pony. He spilt a drop into her ear.She arose as well as she ever was. He had a little bottle in his pocket.He put some of the healing water into it. They went home.When the King perceived the pony coming, he rose out. He took hold ofher with his two hands. He took her in. He smothered her with kisses,and drowned her with tears. he dried her with finest cloths of silk andsatin.This is what the lady was doing while they were away. She boiled pitch,and filled a barrel, and that boiling. Now she went beside it. Sherubbed the healing water to herself. She came out. she went to thebarrel. She gave a jump in and out of the barrel. Three times she wentin and out. She said she would never marry anyone who could not do thesame. The young King came. He went to the barrel. He fell half in, halfout.He was all boiled and burned. Another gentleman came. He gave a jumpinto the barrel. He was burned. He came not out till he died. After thatthere was no one going in or out. The barrel was there, and no one atall was going near it. The lad went up to it. He rubbed the healingwater on himself. He came to the barrel. He jumped in and out threetimes. He was watching her. She came out. She said she would never marryanyone but him.Came the priest of the pattens, and the clerk of the bells. The pairwere married. The wedding lasted three days and three nights. When itwas over, the lad went to look at the place where the pony was. He neverremembered to go and see the pony during the wedding. He found nothingbut a heap of bones. There were two champions and two girls playingcards. The lad went crying when he saw the bones of the pony. One of thegirls asked what was the matter with him. He said it was all one toher that she cared nothing for his troubles."I would like to get knowledge of the cause why you are crying.""It was my pony who was here. I never remembered to see her during thewedding. I have nothing now but her bones. I don't know what I shall doafter her. It was she who did all that I accomplished."The girl went laughing."Would you know your pony if you saw her?""I would know," said he.She laid aside the cards. She stood up."Isn't that your pony?" said she."It is," said he."I was the pony," said the girl, "and the two ravens who went in todrink my blood my two brothers. When the ravens came out, a little birdwent in. You closed the pony. You would not let the little bird out tillthey brought the bottle of healing water that was in the eastern world.They brought the bottle to you. The little bird was my sister. It was mybrothers were the ravens. We were all under enchantments. It is mysister who is married to you. The enchantments are gone from us sinceshe was married."W. LARMINIE.(_From "West Irish Folk Tales."_)