There was once upon a time a man who had a wife, and she was so contrary and cross grained that it was not an easy thing at all to get on with her. The husband fared worst of all. whatever he was for, she was always against. So it happened one Sunday in summer that the man and the woman went out to see how the crops looked.When they came to a corn ?eld on the other side of the river the man said, "It's ready for reaping. tomorrow we must begin.""Yes, tomorrow we can begin and clip it," said the woman."What is it you say? Are we going to clip it? Are we supposed not to reap corn any longer?" said the man."No, it must be clipped," said the woman."There is nothing so dangerous as a little knowledge," said the man. "one would think you had lost what little sense you had! Have you ever seen anybody clipping corn?" said he."Little I know, and less I want to know," said the woman. "but this I do know, that the corn shall be clipped and not reaped."There was no use talking any more about that. clipped it should be. So they walked on wrangling and quarrelling, till they came to the bridge across the river, close to a deep pool."There's an old saying," said the man, "that good tools make good work. I fancy that'll be a queer harvest which is cut with a pair of shears," said he. "Shall we not settle to reap the corn, after all?""No, no! It must be clipped, clipped, clipped!" shouted the woman jumping up and clipping her ?ngers under the man's nose.In her passion she forgot to look where she was going, and all at once she stumbled over one of the beams on the bridge and fell into the river."Old habits are hard to change," thought the man, "but it would be a wonder if I, for once, got my way."He waded out into the pool and got hold of her by the hair, till her head was just out of the water. "Shall we reap the corn then?" he said."Clip, clip, clip!" screamed the woman."I'll teach you to clip," thought the man, and ducked her under the water. But that wasn't of much use."They must clip it," she said, as he brought her to the surface again."I do believe the woman is crazy," said the man to himself. "Many are mad and don't know it, and many have sense and don't use it. but I must try once more, anyhow," said he.But no sooner had he ducked her under again than she held her hand above the water and began to clip with her ?ngers, like a pair of shears. Then the man got furious and kept her under so long that her hand all of a sudden fell under water, and the woman became so heavy that he had to let go his hold."If you want to drag me down into the pool with you, you may lie there, you wretch!" said the man.And so the woman was drowned.But after a while he thought it wasn't right that she should lie there and not be buried in Christian soil, so he went along the river and searched and dragged for her. but for all his searching and all his dragging he could not ?nd her. He took the people on the farm and others in the neighborhood with him, and they began dragging the river all the way down. but for all the searching they could not ?nd the woman."Well," said the man, "this is not much use! This woman was a sort by herself. while she was alive she was altogether a contrary one, and it is not likely she'll be different now," he said. "We must search up the river for her, and try above the fall. perhaps she has ?oated upwards."So they went up the river and searched and dragged for her above the fall, and there, sure enough, she lay. That shows what a contrary woman she was!