Once upon a time there lived in Japan a rat and his wife who came of anold and noble race, and had one daughter, the loveliest girl in all therat world. Her parents were very proud of her, and spared no pains toteach her all she ought to know. There was not another young lady in thewhole town who was as clever as she was in gnawing through the hardestwood, or who could drop from such a height on to a bed, or run away sofast if anyone was heard coming. Great attention, too, was paid to herpersonal appearance, and her skin shone like satin, while her teeth wereas white as pearls, and beautifully pointed.Of course, with all these advantages, her parents expected her to make abrilliant marriage, and, as she grew up, they began to look round for asuitable husband.But here a difficulty arose. The father was a rat from the tip of hisnose to the end of his tail, outside as well as in, and desired that hisdaughter should wed among her own people. She had no lack of lovers, buther father's secret hopes rested on a fine young rat, with moustacheswhich almost swept the ground, whose family was still nobler and moreancient than his own. Unluckily, the mother had other views for herprecious child. She was one of those people who always despise theirown family and surroundings, and take pleasure in thinking that theythemselves are made of finer material than the rest of the world. 'HERdaughter should never marry a mere rat,' she declared, holding her headhigh. 'With her beauty and talents she had a right to look for someone alittle better than THAT.'So she talked, as mothers will, to anyone that would listen to her. Whatthe girl thought about the matter nobody knew or cared it was not thefashion in the rat world.Many were the quarrels which the old rat and his wife had upon thesubject, and sometimes they bore on their faces certain marks whichlooked as if they had not kept to words only.'Reach up to the stars is MY motto,' cried the lady one day, when shewas in a greater passion than usual. 'My daughter's beauty places herhigher than anything upon earth,' she cried. 'and I am certainly notgoing to accept a son in law who is beneath her.''Better offer her in marriage to the sun,' answered her husbandimpatiently. 'As far as I know there is nothing greater than he.''Well, I WAS thinking of it,' replied the wife, 'and as you are of thesame mind, we will pay him a visit to morrow.'So the next morning, the two rats, having spent hours in makingthemselves smart, set out to see the sun, leading their daughter betweenthem.The journey took some time, but at length they came to the golden palacewhere the sun lived.'Noble king,' began the mother, 'behold our daughter! She is sobeautiful that she is above everything in the whole world. Naturally, wewish for a son in law who, on his side, is greater than all. Thereforewe have come to you.''I feel very much flattered,' replied the sun, who was so busy that hehad not the least wish to marry anybody. 'You do me great honour by yourproposal. Only, in one point you are mistaken, and it would be wrong ofme to take advantage of your ignorance. There is something greaterthan I am, and that is the cloud. Look!' And as he spoke a cloud spreaditself over the sun's face, blotting out his rays.'Oh, well, we will speak to the cloud,' said the mother. And turning tothe cloud she repeated her proposal.'Indeed I am unworthy of anything so charming,' answered the cloud. 'butyou make a mistake again in what you say. There is one thing that iseven more powerful than I, and that is the wind. Ah, here he comes, youcan see for yourself.'And she DID see, for catching up the cloud as he passed, he threw it onthe other side of the sky. Then, tumbling father, mother and daughterdown to the earth again, he paused for a moment beside them, his foot onan old wall.When she had recovered her breath, the mother began her little speechonce more.'The wall is the proper husband for your daughter,' answered the wind,whose home consisted of a cave, which he only visited when he was notrushing about elsewhere. 'you can see for yourself that he is greaterthan I, for he has power to stop me in my flight.' And the mother, whodid not trouble to conceal her wishes, turned at once to the wall.Then something happened which was quite unexpected by everyone.'I won't marry that ugly old wall, which is as old as my grandfather,'sobbed the girl, who had not uttered one word all this time. 'I wouldhave married the sun, or the cloud, or the wind, because it was my duty,although I love the handsome young rat, and him only. But that horridold wall I would sooner die!'And the wall, rather hurt in his feelings, declared that he had no claimto be the husband of so beautiful a girl.'It is quite true,' he said, 'that I can stop the wind who can part theclouds who can cover the sun. but there is someone who can do more thanall these, and that is the rat. It is the rat who passes through me, andcan reduce me to powder, simply with his teeth. If, therefore, you wanta son in law who is greater than the whole world, seek him among therats.''Ah, what did I tell you?' cried the father. And his wife, though forthe moment angry at being beaten, soon thought that a rat son in law waswhat she had always desired.So all three returned happily home, and the wedding was celebrated threedays after.