A troll had once taken up his abode near the village of Kund, in the highbank on which the church now stands. but when the people about there hadbecome pious, and went constantly to church, the troll was dreadfullyannoyed by their almost incessant ringing of bells in the steeple of thechurch. He was at last obliged, in consequence of it, to take hisdeparture. for nothing has more contributed to the emigration of the trollfolk out of the country than the increasing piety of the people, and theirtaking to bell ringing. The troll of Kund accordingly quitted the country,and went over to Funen, where he lived for some time in peace and quiet.Now it chanced that a man who had lately settled in the town of Kund,coming to Funen on business, met on the road with this same troll. "Wheredo you live?" said the troll to him.Now there was nothing whatever about the troll unlike a man, so heanswered him, as was the truth, "I am from the town of Kund.""So?" said the troll. "I don't know you then! And yet I think I know everyman in Kund. Will you, however," continued he, "just be so kind to take aletter from me back with you to Kund?"The man said, of course, he had no objection. The troll then thrust theletter into his pocket, and charged him strictly not to take it out tillhe came to Kund church, and then to throw it over the churchyard wall, andthe person for whom it was intended would get it.The troll then went away in great haste, and with him the letter wententirely out of the man's mind. But when he was come back to Zealand hesat down by the meadow where Tis Lake now is, and suddenly recollected thetroll's letter. He felt a great desire to look at it at least. So he tookit out of his pocket, and sat a while with it in his hands, when suddenlythere began to dribble a little water out of the seal. The letter nowunfolded itself, and the water came out faster and faster, and it was withthe utmost difficulty that the poor man was enabled to save his life, forthe malicious troll had enclosed an entire lake in the letter.The troll, it is plain, had thought to avenge himself on Kund church bydestroying it in this manner. but God ordered it so that the lake chancedto run out in the great meadow where it now flows.