At the time when the Tuatha De Dannan held the sovereignty of Ireland,there reigned in Leinster a king, who was remarkably fond of hearingstories. Like the other princes and chieftains of the island, he had afavourite story teller, who held a large estate from his Majesty, oncondition of telling him a new story every night of his life, before hewent to sleep. Many indeed were the stories he knew, so that he hadalready reached a good old age without failing even for a single nightin his task. and such was the skill he displayed that whatever cares ofstate or other annoyances might prey upon the monarch's mind, hisstory teller was sure to send him to sleep.One morning the story teller arose early, and as his custom was,strolled out into his garden turning over in his mind incidents whichhe might weave into a story for the king at night. But this morning hefound himself quite at fault. after pacing his whole demesne, hereturned to his house without being able to think of anything new orstrange. He found no difficulty in "there was once a king who had threesons" or "one day the king of all Ireland," but further than that hecould not get. At length he went in to breakfast, and found his wifemuch perplexed at his delay."Why don't you come to breakfast, my dear?" said she."I have no mind to eat anything," replied the story teller. "long as Ihave been in the service of the king of Leinster, I never sat down tobreakfast without having a new story ready for the evening, but thismorning my mind is quite shut up, and I don't know what to do. I mightas well lie down and die at once. I'll be disgraced for ever thisevening, when the king calls for his story teller."Just at this moment the lady looked out of the window."Do you see that black thing at the end of the field?" said she."I do," replied her husband.They drew nigh, and saw a miserable looking old man lying on the groundwith a wooden leg placed beside him."Who are you, my good man?" asked the story teller."Oh, then, 'tis little matter who I am. I'm a poor, old, lame,decrepit, miserable creature, sitting down here to rest awhile.""An' what are you doing with that box and dice I see in your hand?""I am waiting here to see if any one will play a game with me," repliedthe beggar man."Play with you! Why what has a poor old man like you to play for?""I have one hundred pieces of gold in this leathern purse," replied theold man."You may as well play with him," said the story teller's wife. "andperhaps you'll have something to tell the king in the evening."A smooth stone was placed between them, and upon it they cast theirthrows.It was but a little while and the story teller lost every penny of hismoney."Much good may it do you, friend," said he. "What better hap could Ilook for, fool that I am!""Will you play again?" asked the old man."Don't be talking, man: you have all my money.""Haven't you chariot and horses and hounds?""Well, what of them!""I'll stake all the money I have against thine.""Nonsense, man! Do you think for all the money in Ireland, I'd run therisk of seeing my lady tramp home on foot?""Maybe you'd win," said the bocough."Maybe I wouldn't," said the story teller."Play with him, husband," said his wife. "I don't mind walking, if youdo, love.""I never refused you before," said the story teller, "and I won't do sonow."Down he sat again, and in one throw lost houses, hounds, and chariot."Will you play again?" asked the beggar."Are you making game of me, man. what else have I to stake?""I'll stake all my winnings against your wife," said the old man.The story teller turned away in silence, but his wife stopped him."Accept his offer," said she. "This is the third time, and who knowswhat luck you may have? You'll surely win now."They played again, and the story teller lost. No sooner had he done so,than to his sorrow and surprise, his wife went and sat down near theugly old beggar."Is that the way you're leaving me?" said the story teller."Sure I was won," said she. "You would not cheat the poor man, wouldyou?""Have you any more to stake?" asked the old man."You know very well I have not," replied the story teller."I'll stake the whole now, wife and all, against your own self," saidthe old man.Again they played, and again the story teller lost."Well! here I am, and what do you want with me?""I'll soon let you know," said the old man, and he took from his pocketa long cord and a wand."Now," said he to the story teller, "what kind of animal would yourather be, a deer, a fox, or a hare? You have your choice now, but youmay not have it later."To make a long story short, the story teller made his choice of a hare.the old man threw the cord round him, struck him with the wand, and lo!a long eared, frisking hare was skipping and jumping on the green.But it wasn't for long. who but his wife called the hounds, and setthem on him. The hare fled, the dogs followed. Round the field ran ahigh wall, so that run as he might, he couldn't get out, and mightilydiverted were beggar and lady to see him twist and double.In vain did he take refuge with his wife, she kicked him back again tothe hounds, until at length the beggar stopped the hounds, and with astroke of the wand, panting and breathless, the story teller stoodbefore them again."And how did you like the sport?" said the beggar."It might be sport to others," replied the story teller looking at hiswife, "for my part I could well put up with the loss of it.""Would it be asking too much," he went on to the beggar, "to know whoyou are at all, or where you come from, or why you take a pleasure inplaguing a poor old man like me?""Oh!" replied the stranger, "I'm an odd kind of good for little fellow,one day poor, another day rich, but if you wish to know more about meor my habits, come with me and perhaps I may show you more than youwould make out if you went alone.""I'm not my own master to go or stay," said the story teller, with asigh.The stranger put one hand into his wallet and drew out of it beforetheir eyes a well looking middle aged man, to whom he spoke as follows:"By all you heard and saw since I put you into my wallet, take chargeof this lady and of the carriage and horses, and have them ready for mewhenever I want them."Scarcely had he said these words when all vanished, and thestory teller found himself at the Foxes' Ford, near the castle of RedHugh O'Donnell. He could see all but none could see him.O'Donnell was in his hall, and heaviness of flesh and weariness ofspirit were upon him."Go out," said he to his doorkeeper, "and see who or what may becoming."The doorkeeper went, and what he saw was a lank, grey beggarman. halfhis sword bared behind his haunch, his two shoes full of coldroad a wayish water sousing about him, the tips of his two ears outthrough his old hat, his two shoulders out through his scant tatteredcloak, and in his hand a green wand of holly."Save you, O'Donnell," said the lank grey beggarman."And you likewise," said O'Donnell. "Whence come you, and what is yourcraft?""I come from the outmost stream of earth,From the glens where the white swans glide,A night in Islay, a night in Man,A night on the cold hillside.""It's the great traveller you are," said O'Donnell."Maybe you've learnt something on the road.""I am a juggler," said the lank grey beggarman, "and for five pieces ofsilver you shall see a trick of mine.""You shall have them," said O'Donnell. and the lank grey beggarman tookthree small straws and placed them in his hand."The middle one," said he, "I'll blow away. the other two I'll leave.""Thou canst not do it," said one and all.But the lank grey beggarman put a finger on either outside straw and,whiff, away he blew the middle one."'Tis a good trick," said O'Donnell. and he paid him his five pieces ofsilver."For half the money," said one of the chief's lads, "I'll do the sametrick.""Take him at his word, O'Donnell."The lad put the three straws on his hand, and a finger on eitheroutside straw and he blew. and what happened but that the fist wasblown away with the straw."Thou art sore, and thou wilt be sorer," said O'Donnell."Six more pieces, O'Donnell, and I'll do another trick for thee," saidthe lank grey beggarman."Six shalt thou have.""Seest thou my two ears! One I'll move but not t'other.""'Tis easy to see them, they're big enough, but thou canst never moveone ear and not the two together."The lank grey beggarman put his hand to his ear, and he gave it a pull.O'Donnell laughed and paid him the six pieces."Call that a trick," said the fistless lad, "any one can do that," andso saying, he put up his hand, pulled his ear, and what happened wasthat he pulled away ear and head."Sore thou art. and sorer thou'lt be," said O'Donnell."Well, O'Donnell," said the lank grey beggarman, "strange are thetricks I've shown thee, but I'll show thee a stranger one yet for thesame money.""Thou hast my word for it," said O'Donnell.With that the lank grey beggarman took a bag from under his armpit, andfrom out the bag a ball of silk, and he unwound the ball and he flungit slantwise up into the clear blue heavens, and it became a ladder.then he took a hare and placed it upon the thread, and up it ran. againhe took out a red eared hound, and it swiftly ran up after the hare."Now," said the lank grey beggarman. "has any one a mind to run afterthe dog and on the course?""I will," said a lad of O'Donnell's."Up with you then," said the juggler. "but I warn you if you let myhare be killed I'll cut off your head when you come down."The lad ran up the thread and all three soon disappeared. After lookingup for a long time, the lank grey beggarman said: "I'm afraid the houndis eating the hare, and that our friend has fallen asleep."Saying this he began to wind the thread, and down came the lad fastasleep. and down came the red eared hound and in his mouth the lastmorsel of the hare.He struck the lad a stroke with the edge of his sword, and so cast hishead off. As for the hound, if he used it no worse, he used it nobetter."It's little I'm pleased, and sore I'm angered," said O'Donnell, "thata hound and a lad should be killed at my court.""Five pieces of silver twice over for each of them," said the juggler,"and their heads shall be on them as before.""Thou shalt get that," said O'Donnell.Five pieces, and again five were paid him, and lo! the lad had his headand the hound his. And though they lived to the uttermost end of time,the hound would never touch a hare again, and the lad took good care tokeep his eyes open.Scarcely had the lank grey beggarman done this when he vanished fromout their sight, and no one present could say if he had flown throughthe air or if the earth had swallowed him up.He moved as wave tumbling o'er waveAs whirlwind following whirlwind,As a furious wintry blast,So swiftly, sprucely, cheerily,Right proudly,And no stop madeUntil he cameTo the court of Leinster's King,He gave a cheery light leapO'er top of turret,Of court and cityOf Leinster's King.Heavy was the flesh and weary the spirit of Leinster's king. 'Twas thehour he was wont to hear a story, but send he might right and left, nota jot of tidings about the story teller could he get."Go to the door," said he to his doorkeeper, "and see if a soul is insight who may tell me something about my story teller."The doorkeeper went, and what he saw was a lank grey beggarman, halfhis sword bared behind his haunch, his two old shoes full of coldroad a wayish water sousing about him, the tips of his two ears outthrough his old hat, his two shoulders out through his scant tatteredcloak, and in his hand a three stringed harp."What canst thou do?" said the doorkeeper."I can play," said the lank grey beggarman."Never fear," added he to the story teller, "thou shalt see all, andnot a man shall see thee."When the king heard a harper was outside, he bade him in."It is I that have the best harpers in the five fifths of Ireland,"said he, and he signed them to play. They did so, and if they played,the lank grey beggarman listened."Heardst thou ever the like?" said the king."Did you ever, O king, hear a cat purring over a bowl of broth, or thebuzzing of beetles in the twilight, or a shrill tongued old womanscolding your head off?""That I have often," said the king."More melodious to me," said the lank grey beggarman, "were the worstof these sounds than the sweetest harping of thy harpers."When the harpers heard this, they drew their swords and rushed at him,but instead of striking him, their blows fell on each other, and soonnot a man but was cracking his neighbour's skull and getting his owncracked in turn.When the king saw this, he thought it hard the harpers weren't contentwith murdering their music, but must needs murder each other."Hang the fellow who began it all," said he. "and if I can't have astory, let me have peace."Up came the guards, seized the lank grey beggarman, marched him to thegallows and hanged him high and dry. Back they marched to the hall, andwho should they see but the lank grey beggarman seated on a bench withhis mouth to a flagon of ale."Never welcome you in," cried the captain of the guard, "didn't we hangyou this minute, and what brings you here?""Is it me myself, you mean?""Who else?" said the captain."May your hand turn into a pig's foot with you when you think of tyingthe rope. why should you speak of hanging me?"Back they scurried to the gallows, and there hung the king's favouritebrother.Back they hurried to the king who had fallen fast asleep."Please your Majesty," said the captain, "we hanged that strollingvagabond, but here he is back again as well as ever.""Hang him again," said the king, and off he went to sleep once more.They did as they were told, but what happened was that they found theking's chief harper hanging where the lank grey beggarman should havebeen.The captain of the guard was sorely puzzled."Are you wishful to hang me a third time?" said the lank grey beggarman."Go where you will," said the captain, "and as fast as you please ifyou'll only go far enough. It's trouble enough you've given us already.""Now you're reasonable," said the beggarman. "and since you've given uptrying to hang a stranger because he finds fault with your music, Idon't mind telling you that if you go back to the gallows you'll findyour friends sitting on the sward none the worse for what has happened."As he said these words he vanished. and the story teller found himselfon the spot where they first met, and where his wife still was with thecarriage and horses."Now," said the lank grey beggarman, "I'll torment you no longer.There's your carriage and your horses, and your money and your wife. dowhat you please with them.""For my carriage and my houses and my hounds," said the story teller,"I thank you. but my wife and my money you may keep.""No," said the other. "I want neither, and as for your wife, don'tthink ill of her for what she did, she couldn't help it.""Not help it! Not help kicking me into the mouth of my own hounds! Nothelp casting me off for the sake of a beggarly old ""I'm not as beggarly or as old as ye think. I am Angus of the Bruff.many a good turn you've done me with the King of Leinster. This morningmy magic told me the difficulty you were in, and I made up my mind toget you out of it. As for your wife there, the power that changed yourbody changed her mind. Forget and forgive as man and wife should do,and now you have a story for the King of Leinster when he calls forone." and with that he disappeared.It's true enough he now had a story fit for a king. From first to lasthe told all that had befallen him. so long and loud laughed the kingthat he couldn't go to sleep at all. And he told the story teller neverto trouble for fresh stories, but every night as long as he lived helistened again and he laughed afresh at the tale of the lank greybeggarman.