of the SeaThere was once an honest old farmer who had three daughters. His farm randown to the shores of a deep lake. One day as he leaned over the water totake a drink, wicked old Wetehinen reached up from the bottom of the lakeand clutched him by the beard."Ouch! Ouch!" the farmer cried. "Let me go!"Wetehinen only held on more tightly. "Yes, I'll let you go," he said, "butonly on this condition: that you give me one of your daughters for wife!""Give you one of my daughters? Never!""Very well, then I'll never let go!" wicked old Wetehinen declared andwith that he began jerking at the beard as if it were a bell rope."Wait! Wait!" the fanner spluttered. Now he didn't want to give one of hisdaughters to wicked old Wetehinen   of course not! But at the same timehe was in Wetehinen's power and he realized that if he didn't do what theold reprobate demanded he might lose his life and so leave all three ofhis daughters orphans. Perhaps for the good of all he had better sacrificeone of them."All right," he said, "let me go and I'll send you my oldest daughter. Ipromise."So Wetehinen let go his beard and the farmer scrambled to his feet andhurried home."My dear," he said to his oldest daughter, "I left a bit of the harnessdown at the lake. Like a good girl will you run down and get it for me."The eldest daughter went at once and when she reached the water's edge,old Wetehinen reached up and caught her about the waist and carried herdown to the bottom of the lake where he lived in a big house.At first he was kind to her. He made her mistress of the house and gaveher the keys to all the rooms and closets. He went very carefully over thekeys and pointing to one he said, "That key you must never use for itopens the door to a room which I forbid you to enter."The eldest daughter began keeping house for old Wetehinen and spent hertime cooking and cleaning and spinning much as she used to at home withher father. The days went by and she grew familiar with the house andbegan to know what was in every room and every closet.At first she felt no temptation to open the forbidden door. If oldWetehinen wanted to have a secret room, well and good. But why in theworld had he given her the key if he really didn't want her to open thedoor? The more she thought about it the more she wondered. Every time shepassed the room she stopped a moment and stared at the door. It lookedjust exactly like the doors that led into all the other rooms."I wonder why he doesn't want me to open just that door?" she kept askingherself.Finally one day when old Wetehinen was away she thought, "I don't believeit would matter if I opened that door just a little crack and peeped inonce! No one would know the difference!"For a few moments she hesitated, then mustered up courage enough to turnthe key in the forbidden lock and throw open the door. The room was astoreroom with boxes and chests and old jars piled up around the wall.That was unexciting enough, but in the middle of the floor was somethingthat made her start when she saw what it was. It was blood   that's whatit was, a pool of dark red blood! She was about to slam the door shut whenshe saw something else that made her pause. This was a lovely shining ringthat lay in the midst of the pool."Oh!" she thought to herself, "what a beautiful ring! If I had it I'd wearit on my finger!"The longer she looked at it, the more she wanted it. "If I'm verycareful," she said, "I know I could reach over and pick it up withouttouching the blood."She tiptoed cautiously into the room, wrapped her skirts tightly about herlegs, knelt down on the floor, and stretched her arm over the pool. Shepicked up the ring very carefully but even so she got a few drops of bloodon her fingers."No matter!" she thought. "I can wash that off! And see the lovely ring!"But later, after she had the door again locked, when she tried to wash theblood off, she found she couldn't. She tried soap, she tried sand, shetried everything she could think of, but without success."I don't care!" she thought to herself. "If Wetehinen sees the blood, I'lljust tell him I cut my finger by accident."So when Wetehinen came home, she hid the ring and pretended nothing wasthe matter.After supper Wetehinen put his head in her lap and said, "Now, my dear,scratch my head and make me drowsy for bed."She began scratching his head as she had many nights before but, at thefirst touch of her fingers, he cried out, "Stop! You're burning my ear!There must be some blood on your fingers! Let me see!"He reached up and caught her hand and, when he saw the blood stains, heflew into a towering rage. "I thought so! You've been in the forbiddenroom!" He jumped up and without allowing her time to say a word he justcut off her head then and there with no more concern than if she had beena mosquito! After that he took the body and the severed head and threwthem into the forbidden room and locked the door."Now then," he growled, " she won't disobey me again!"This was all very well but now he had no one to keep house for him andcook and scratch his head in the evening and soon he decided he'd have toget another wife. He remembered that the farmer had two more daughters, sohe thought to himself that now he'd marry the second sister.He waited his chance and one day when the farmer was out in his boatfishing, old Wetehinen came up from the bottom of the lake and clutchedthe boat. When the poor old farmer tried to row back to shore he couldn'tmake the boat move an inch. He worked and worked at the oars and wickedold Wetehinen let him struggle until he was exhausted.Then he put his head up out of the water and over the side of the boat andas though nothing were the matter he said, "Hullo!""Oh!" the farmer cried, wishing he were safe on shore, "it's you, is it? Iwondered what was holding my boat.""Yes," wicked old Wetehinen said, "it's me and I'm going to hold your boatright here on this spot until you promise to give me another of yourdaughters."What could the farmer do? He pleaded with Wetehinen but Wetehinen was firmand the upshot was that before the farmer again walked dry land he hadpromised Wetehinen his second daughter.Well, when he got home, he pretended he had forgotten his ax in the boatand sent his second daughter down to the lake to get it. Wicked oldWetehinen caught her as he had caught her sister and carried her home withhim to his house at the bottom of the lake.Wetehinen treated the second sister just exactly as he had the first,making her mistress of the house and telling her she might use every keybut one. Like her sister she, too, after a time gave way to the temptationof looking into the forbidden room and when she saw the shining ring lyingin the pool of blood of course she wanted it and of course when shereached to get it she dabbled her fingers in the blood. So that was theend of her, too, for wicked old Wetehinen when he saw the blood stainsjust cut her head right off and threw her body and the severed head intothe forbidden room beside the body and head of her sister and locked thedoor.Time went by and the farmer was living happily with his youngest daughterwhen one day while he was out chopping wood he found a pair of fine birchbark brogues. He put them on and instantly found himself, walking awayfrom the woods and down to the lake. He tried to stop but he couldn't. Hetried to walk in another direction but the brogues carried him straightdown to the water's edge and out into the lake until he was in waist deep.Then he heard a gruff voice saying, "Hullo, there! What are you doing withmy brogues?"Of course it was wicked old Wetehinen who had played that trick to get thefarmer into his power again."What do you want this time?" the poor farmer cried."I want your youngest daughter," Wetehinen said."What! My youngest daughter!""Yes.""I won't give her up!" the farmer declared. "I don't care what you do tome. I won't give her up!""Oh, very well!" Wetehinen said, and immediately the brogues which hadbeen standing still while they talked started walking again. They carriedthe farmer out into the lake farther and farther until the water was up tohis chin."Wait   wait a minute!" he cried.The brogues stopped walking and Wetehinen said, "Well, do you promise togive her to me?""No!" the farmer began. "She's my last daughter and   "Before he could say more, the brogues walked on and the water rose to hisnose.In desperation he threw up his hands and shouted, "I promise! I promise!"So when he got home that day he said to his youngest daughter whose namewas Lisa, "Lisa, my dear, I forgot my brogues at the lake. Like a goodgirl won't you run and get them for me?"So Lisa went to the lake and Wetehinen of course caught her and carriedher down to his house as he had her two sisters. Then the same old storywas repeated. Wetehinen made Lisa mistress of the house and gave her keysto all the doors and closets with the same prohibition against opening thedoor of the forbidden room."If I am mistress of the house," Lisa said to herself, "why should I notunlock every door?"She waited until one day when Wetehinen was away from home, then wentboldly to the forbidden room, fitted the key in the lock, and flung openthe door.There lay her two poor sisters with their heads cut off. There in the poolof blood sparkled the lovely ring, but Lisa paid no heed to it."Wicked old Wetehinen!" Lisa cried. "I suppose he thinks that ring willtempt me, but nothing will tempt me to touch that awful blood!"Then she rummaged about, opening boxes and chests, and turning thingsover. In a dark corner she found two pitchers, one marked Water ofLife , the other Water of Death ."Ha! This is what I want!" she cried, taking the pitcher of the Water ofLife. She set the severed heads of her sisters in place and then with themagic water brought them back to life. She used up all the Water ofLife , so she filled the pitcher marked Water of Life with thewater from the other pitcher, the Water of Death . She hid hersisters each in a big wooden chest, she shut and locked the door of theforbidden room, and Wetehinen when he came home found her working at herspinning wheel as though nothing unusual had happened.After supper Wetehinen said, "Now scratch my head and make me drowsy forbed."So Lisa scratched his wicked old head and she did it so well that hegrunted with satisfaction."Uh! Uh!" he said. "That's good! Now just behind my right ear! That's it!That's it! You're a good girl, you are! You're not like some of them whodo what they're told not to do! Now behind the other ear! Oh, that's fine!Yes, you're a good girl, and if there's anything you want me to do justtell me what it is.""I want to send a chest of things to my poor old father," Lisa said. "Justa lot of little nothings   odds and ends that I've picked up about thehouse. I'd be ashamed to have you open the chest and see them. I do wishyou'd carry the chest ashore tomorrow and leave it where my father willfind it.""All right, I will," Wetehinen promised. He was true to his word. The nextmorning he hoisted one of the chests on his shoulder, the one that had init the eldest sister. He trudged off with it, and tossed it up on shore ata place where he was sure the farmer would find it.Lisa then wheedled him into carrying up the second chest that had in itthe second sister. This time Wetehinen wasn't so good natured."I don't know what she can always be sending her father!" he grumbled. "Ifshe sends another chest I'll have to look inside and see."Now Lisa, when the second sister was safely delivered, began to plan herown escape. She pulled out another empty chest and then one evening aftershe had succeeded in making old Wetehinen comfortable and drowsy shebegged him to carry this also to her father. He grumbled and protested butfinally promised."And you won't look inside, will you? Promise me you won't!" Lisa begged.Wetehinen said he wouldn't, but he intended to just the same.Well, the next morning as soon as Wetehinen went out, Lisa took the churnand dressed it up in some of her own clothes. She carried it to the top ofthe house and perched it on the ridge of the roof before a spinning wheel.Then she herself crept inside the third chest and waited.When Wetehinen came home he looked up and saw what he thought was Lisaspinning on the roof."Hullo!" he shouted. "What are you doing up there?"Lisa, in the chest, answered in a voice that sounded as if it came fromthe roof: "I'm spinning. And you, Wetehinen, my dear, don't forget thechest that you promised to carry to my poor old father. It's standing inthe kitchen."Wetehinen grumbled but because of his promise he hoisted the chest on hisshoulder and started off. When he had gone a little way he thought to putit down and take a peep inside.Instantly Lisa's voice, sounding as if it came from the roof, cried out,"No! No! You promised not to look inside!""I'm not looking inside!" Wetehinen called back. "I'm only resting aminute!"Then he thought to himself, "I suppose she's sitting up there so she canwatch me!"When he had gone some distance farther, he thought again to set down thechest and open the lid but instantly Lisa's voice, as from a long way off,called out: "No! No! You promised not to look inside!""Who's looking inside?" he called back, pretending again he was onlyresting.Every time he thought it would be safe to put down the chest and open thelid, Lisa's voice cried out: "No! No! You promised not to !""Mercy on us!" old Wetehinen fumed to himself, "who would have thought shecould see so far!"On the shore of the lake when he threw down the chest in disgust he triedone last time to raise the lid.Instantly Lisa's voice cried out: "No! No! You promised not to!""I'm not looking inside!" Wetehinen roared, and in a fury he left thechest and started back into the water.All the way home He grumbled and growled, "A nice way to treat a man,always making him carry chests! I won't carry another one no matter howmuch she begs me!"When he came neat home he saw the spinning wheel still on the roof and thefigure still seated before it."Why haven't you got my dinner ready?" he called out angrily.The figure at the spinning wheel made no answer."What's the matter with you?" Wetehinen cried. "Why are you sitting therelike a wooden image instead of cooking my dinner?"Still the figure made no answer and in a rage Wetehinen began climbing upthe roof. He reached out blindly and clutched at Lisa's skirt and jerkedit so hard that the churn came clattering down on his head. It knocked himoff the roof and he fell all the way to the ground and cracked his wickedold head wide open."Ouch! Ouch!" he roared in pain. "Just wait till I get hold of that Lisa!"He crawled to the forbidden room and poured over himself the water thatwas in the pitcher marked Water of Life . But it wasn't the Waterof Life at all, it was the Water of Death , and so it didn'thelp his wicked old cracked head at all. In fact it just made it worse andworse and worse.Lisa and her sisters were never again troubled by him nor was any one elsethat lived on the shores of that lake."Wonder what's become of wicked old Wetehinen?" people began saying.Lisa thought she knew but she didn't tell.