Once upon a time there lived a King who had seven Queens, but nochildren. This was a great grief to him, especially when he rememberedthat on his death there would be no heir to inherit the kingdom.Now it happened one day that a poor old fakir came to the King, andsaid, "Your prayers are heard, your desire shall be accomplished, andone of your seven Queens shall bear a son."The King's delight at this promise knew no bounds, and he gave ordersfor appropriate festivities to be prepared against the coming eventthroughout the length and breadth of the land.Meanwhile the seven Queens lived luxuriously in a splendid palace,attended by hundreds of female slaves, and fed to their hearts'content on sweetmeats and confectionery.Now the King was very fond of hunting, and one day, before he started,the seven Queens sent him a message saying, "May it please our dearestlord not to hunt towards the north to day, for we have dreamt baddreams, and fear lest evil should befall you."The King, to allay their anxiety, promised regard for their wishes,and set out towards the south. but as luck would have it, although hehunted diligently, he found no game. Nor had he more success to theeast or west, so that, being a keen sportsman, and determined not togo home empty handed, he forgot all about his promise, and turned tothe north. Here also he was at first unsuccessful, but just as he hadmade up his mind to give up for that day, a white hind with goldenhorns and silver hoofs flashed past him into a thicket. So quickly didit pass that he scarcely saw it. nevertheless a burning desire tocapture and possess the beautiful strange creature filled his breast.He instantly ordered his attendants to form a ring round the thicket,and so encircle the hind. then, gradually narrowing the circle, hepressed forward till he could distinctly see the white hind panting inthe midst. Nearer and nearer he advanced, till, just as he thought tolay hold of the beautiful strange creature, it gave one mighty bound,leapt clean over the King's head, and fled towards the mountains.Forgetful of all else, the King, setting spurs to his horse, followedat full speed. On, on he galloped, leaving his retinue far behind,keeping the white hind in view, never drawing bridle, until, findinghimself in a narrow ravine with no outlet, he reined in his steed.Before him stood a miserable hovel, into which, being tired after hislong, unsuccessful chase, he entered to ask for a drink of water. Anold woman, seated in the hut at a spinning wheel, answered his requestby calling to her daughter, and immediately from an inner room came amaiden so lovely and charming, so white skinned and golden haired,that the King was transfixed by astonishment at seeing so beautiful asight in the wretched hovel.She held the vessel of water to the King's lips, and as he drank helooked into her eyes, and then it became clear to him that the girlwas no other than the white hind with the golden horns and silver feethe had chased so far.Her beauty bewitched him, so he fell on his knees, begging her toreturn with him as his bride. but she only laughed, saying sevenQueens were quite enough even for a King to manage. However, when hewould take no refusal, but implored her to have pity on him, promisingher everything she could desire, she replied, "Give me the eyes ofyour seven Queens, and then perhaps I may believe you mean what yousay."The King was so carried away by the glamour of the white hind'smagical beauty, that he went home at once, had the eyes of his sevenQueens taken out, and, after throwing the poor blind creatures into anoisome dungeon whence they could not escape, set off once more forthe hovel in the ravine, bearing with him his horrible offering. Butthe white hind only laughed cruelly when she saw the fourteen eyes,and threading them as a necklace, flung it round her mother's neck,saying, "Wear that, little mother, as a keepsake, whilst I am away inthe King's palace."Then she went back with the bewitched monarch, as his bride, and hegave her the seven Queens' rich clothes and jewels to wear, the sevenQueens' palace to live in, and the seven Queens' slaves to wait uponher. so that she really had everything even a witch could desire.Now, very soon after the seven wretched hapless Queens had their eyestorn out, and were cast into prison, a baby was born to the youngestof the Queens. It was a handsome boy, but the other Queens were veryjealous that the youngest amongst them should be so fortunate. Butthough at first they disliked the handsome little boy, he soon provedso useful to them, that ere long they all looked on him as their son.Almost as soon as he could walk about he began scraping at the mudwall of their dungeon, and in an incredibly short space of time hadmade a hole big enough for him to crawl through. Through this hedisappeared, returning in an hour or so laden with sweetmeats, whichhe divided equally amongst the seven blind Queens.As he grew older he enlarged the hole, and slipped out two or threetimes every day to play with the little nobles in the town. No oneknew who the tiny boy was, but everybody liked him, and he was so fullof funny tricks and antics, so merry and bright, that he was sure tobe rewarded by some girdle cakes, a handful of parched grain, or somesweetmeats. All these things he brought home to his seven mothers, ashe loved to call the seven blind Queens, who by his help lived on intheir dungeon when all the world thought they had starved to deathages before.At last, when he was quite a big lad, he one day took his bow andarrow, and went out to seek for game. Coming by chance past the palacewhere the white hind lived in wicked splendour and magnificence, hesaw some pigeons fluttering round the white marble turrets, and,taking good aim, shot one dead. It came tumbling past the very windowwhere the white Queen was sitting. she rose to see what was thematter, and looked out. At the first glance of the handsome young ladstanding there bow in hand, she knew by witchcraft that it was theKing's son.She nearly died of envy and spite, determining to destroy the ladwithout delay. therefore, sending a servant to bring him to herpresence, she asked him if he would sell her the pigeon he had justshot."No," replied the sturdy lad, "the pigeon is for my seven blindmothers, who live in the noisome dungeon, and who would die if I didnot bring them food.""Poor souls!" cried the cunning white witch. "would you not like tobring them their eyes again? Give me the pigeon, my dear, and Ifaithfully promise to show you where to find them."Hearing this, the lad was delighted beyond measure, and gave up thepigeon at once. Whereupon the white Queen told him to seek her motherwithout delay, and ask for the eyes which she wore as a necklace."She will not fail to give them," said the cruel Queen, "if you showher this token on which I have written what I want done."So saying, she gave the lad a piece of broken potsherd, with thesewords inscribed on it "Kill the bearer at once, and sprinkle hisblood like water!"Now, as the son of seven Queens could not read, he took the fatalmessage cheerfully, and set off to find the white Queen's mother.Whilst he was journeying he passed through a town, where every one ofthe inhabitants looked so sad, that he could not help asking what wasthe matter. They told him it was because the King's only daughterrefused to marry. so when her father died there would be no heir tothe throne. They greatly feared she must be out of her mind, forthough every good looking young man in the kingdom had been shown toher, she declared she would only marry one who was the son of sevenmothers, and who ever heard of such a thing? The King, in despair, hadordered every man who entered the city gates to be led before thePrincess. so, much to the lad's impatience, for he was in an immensehurry to find his mothers' eyes, he was dragged into thepresence chamber.No sooner did the Princess catch sight of him than she blushed, and,turning to the King, said, "Dear father, this is my choice!"Never were such rejoicings as these few words produced.The inhabitants nearly went wild with joy, but the son of sevenQueens said he would not marry the Princess unless they first let himrecover his mothers' eyes. When the beautiful bride heard his story,she asked to see the potsherd, for she was very learned and clever.Seeing the treacherous words, she said nothing, but taking anothersimilar shaped bit of potsherd, she wrote on it these words "Takecare of this lad, giving him all he desires," and returned it to theson of seven Queens, who, none the wiser, set off on his quest.Ere long he arrived at the hovel in the ravine where the white witch'smother, a hideous old creature, grumbled dreadfully on reading themessage, especially when the lad asked for the necklace of eyes.Nevertheless she took it off, and gave it him, saying, "There are onlythirteen of 'em now, for I lost one last week."The lad, however, was only too glad to get any at all, so he hurriedhome as fast as he could to his seven mothers, and gave two eyesapiece to the six elder Queens. but to the youngest he gave one,saying, "Dearest little mother! I will be your other eye always!"After this he set off to marry the Princess, as he had promised, butwhen passing by the white Queen's palace he saw some pigeons on theroof. Drawing his bow, he shot one, and it came fluttering past thewindow. The white hind looked out, and lo! there was the King's sonalive and well.She cried with hatred and disgust, but sending for the lad, asked himhow he had returned so soon, and when she heard how he had broughthome the thirteen eyes, and given them to the seven blind Queens, shecould hardly restrain her rage. Nevertheless she pretended to becharmed with his success, and told him that if he would give her thispigeon also, she would reward him with the Jogi's wonderful cow, whosemilk flows all day long, and makes a pond as big as a kingdom. Thelad, nothing loth, gave her the pigeon. whereupon, as before, she badehim go ask her mother for the cow, and gave him a potsherd whereon waswritten "Kill this lad without fail, and sprinkle his blood likewater!"But on the way the son of seven Queens looked in on the Princess, justto tell her how he came to be delayed, and she, after reading themessage on the potsherd, gave him another in its stead. so that whenthe lad reached the old hag's hut and asked her for the Jogi's cow,she could not refuse, but told the boy how to find it. and bidding himof all things not to be afraid of the eighteen thousand demons whokept watch and ward over the treasure, told him to be off before shebecame too angry at her daughter's foolishness in thus giving away somany good things.Then the lad did as he had been told bravely. He journeyed on and ontill he came to a milk white pond, guarded by the eighteen thousanddemons. They were really frightful to behold, but, plucking upcourage, he whistled a tune as he walked through them, looking neitherto the right nor the left. By and by he came upon the Jogi's cow,tall, white, and beautiful, while the Jogi himself, who was king ofall the demons, sat milking her day and night, and the milk streamedfrom her udder, filling the milk white tank.The Jogi, seeing the lad, called out fiercely, "What do you wanthere?"Then the lad answered, according to the old hag's bidding, "I wantyour skin, for King Indra is making a new kettle drum, and says yourskin is nice and tough."Upon this the Jogi began to shiver and shake (for no Jinn or Jogidares disobey King Indra's command), and, falling at the lad's feet,cried, "If you will spare me I will give you anything I possess, evenmy beautiful white cow!"To this the son of seven Queens, after a little pretended hesitation,agreed, saying that after all it would not be difficult to find a nicetough skin like the Jogi's elsewhere. so, driving the wonderful cowbefore him, he set off homewards. The seven Queens were delighted topossess so marvellous an animal, and though they toiled from morningtill night making curds and whey, besides selling milk to theconfectioners, they could not use half the cow gave, and became richerand richer day by day.Seeing them so comfortably off, the son of seven Queens started with alight heart to marry the Princess. but when passing the white hind'spalace he could not resist sending a bolt at some pigeons which werecooing on the parapet. One fell dead just beneath the window where thewhite Queen was sitting. Looking out, she saw the lad hale and heartystanding before her, and grew whiter than ever with rage and spite.She sent for him to ask how he had returned so soon, and when sheheard how kindly her mother had received him, she very nearly had afit. however, she dissembled her feelings as well as she could, and,smiling sweetly, said she was glad to have been able to fulfil herpromise, and that if he would give her this third pigeon, she would doyet more for him than she had done before, by giving him themillion fold rice, which ripens in one night.The lad was of course delighted at the very idea, and, giving up thepigeon, set off on his quest, armed as before with a potsherd, onwhich was written, "Do not fail this time. Kill the lad, and sprinklehis blood like water!"But when he looked in on his Princess, just to prevent her becominganxious about him, she asked to see the potsherd as usual, andsubstituted another, on which was written, "Yet again give this ladall he requires, for his blood shall be as your blood!"Now when the old hag saw this, and heard how the lad wanted themillion fold rice which ripens in a single night, she fell into themost furious rage, but being terribly afraid of her daughter, shecontrolled herself, and bade the boy go and find the field guarded byeighteen millions of demons, warning him on no account to look backafter having plucked the tallest spike of rice, which grew in thecentre.So the son of seven Queens set off, and soon came to the field where,guarded by eighteen millions of demons, the million fold rice grew. Hewalked on bravely, looking neither to the right or left, till hereached the centre and plucked the tallest ear, but as he turnedhomewards a thousand sweet voices rose behind him, crying in tenderestaccents, "Pluck me too! oh, please pluck me too!" He looked back, andlo! there was nothing left of him but a little heap of ashes!Now as time passed by and the lad did not return, the old hag grewuneasy, remembering the message "his blood shall be as your blood". soshe set off to see what had happened.Soon she came to the heap of ashes, and knowing by her arts what itwas, she took a little water, and kneading the ashes into a paste,formed it into the likeness of a man. then, putting a drop of bloodfrom her little finger into its mouth, she blew on it, and instantlythe son of seven Queens started up as well as ever."Don't you disobey orders again!" grumbled the old hag, "or next timeI'll leave you alone. Now be off, before I repent of my kindness!"So the son of seven Queens returned joyfully to his seven mothers,who, by the aid of the million fold rice, soon became the richestpeople in the kingdom. Then they celebrated their son's marriage tothe clever Princess with all imaginable pomp. but the bride was soclever, she would not rest until she had made known her husband to hisfather, and punished the wicked white witch. So she made her husbandbuild a palace exactly like the one in which the seven Queens hadlived, and in which the white witch now dwelt in splendour. Then, whenall was prepared, she bade her husband give a grand feast to the King.Now the King had heard much of the mysterious son of seven Queens, andhis marvellous wealth, so he gladly accepted the invitation. but whatwas his astonishment when on entering the palace he found it was afacsimile of his own in every particular! And when his host, richlyattired, led him straight to the private hall, where on royal thronessat the seven Queens, dressed as he had last seen them, he wasspeechless with surprise, until the Princess, coming forward, threwherself at his feet, and told him the whole story. Then the King awokefrom his enchantment, and his anger rose against the wicked white hindwho had bewitched him so long, until he could not contain himself. Soshe was put to death, and her grave ploughed over, and after that theseven Queens returned to their own splendid palace, and everybodylived happily.