Along time ago, there lived an old poet, a thoroughly kind old poet. Ashe was sitting one evening in his room, a dreadful storm arose without,and the rain streamed down from heaven. but the old poet sat warmand comfortable in his chimney corner, where the fire blazed and theroasting apple hissed."Those who have not a roof over their heads will be wetted to the skin,"said the good old poet."Oh let me in! Let me in! I am cold, and I'm so wet!" exclaimed suddenlya child that stood crying at the door and knocking for admittance, whilethe rain poured down, and the wind made all the windows rattle."Poor thing!" said the old poet, as he went to open the door. Therestood a little boy, quite naked, and the water ran down from his longgolden hair. he trembled with cold, and had he not come into a warm roomhe would most certainly have perished in the frightful tempest."Poor child!" said the old poet, as he took the boy by the hand. "Comein, come in, and I will soon restore thee! Thou shalt have wine androasted apples, for thou art verily a charming child!" And the boy wasso really. His eyes were like two bright stars. and although the watertrickled down his hair, it waved in beautiful curls. He looked exactlylike a little angel, but he was so pale, and his whole body trembledwith cold. He had a nice little bow in his hand, but it was quitespoiled by the rain, and the tints of his many colored arrows ran oneinto the other.The old poet seated himself beside his hearth, and took the littlefellow on his lap. he squeezed the water out of his dripping hair,warmed his hands between his own, and boiled for him some sweet wine.Then the boy recovered, his cheeks again grew rosy, he jumped down fromthe lap where he was sitting, and danced round the kind old poet."You are a merry fellow," said the old man. "What's your name?""My name is Cupid," answered the boy. "Don't you know me? There lies mybow. it shoots well, I can assure you! Look, the weather is now clearingup, and the moon is shining clear again through the window.""Why, your bow is quite spoiled," said the old poet."That were sad indeed," said the boy, and he took the bow in his handand examined it on every side. "Oh, it is dry again, and is not hurt atall. the string is quite tight. I will try it directly." And he bent hisbow, took aim, and shot an arrow at the old poet, right into his heart."You see now that my bow was not spoiled," said he laughing. and away heran.The naughty boy, to shoot the old poet in that way. he who had taken himinto his warm room, who had treated him so kindly, and who had given himwarm wine and the very best apples!The poor poet lay on the earth and wept, for the arrow had really flowninto his heart."Fie!" said he. "How naughty a boy Cupid is! I will tell all childrenabout him, that they may take care and not play with him, for he willonly cause them sorrow and many a heartache."And all good children to whom he related this story, took great heedof this naughty Cupid. but he made fools of them still, for he isastonishingly cunning. When the university students come from thelectures, he runs beside them in a black coat, and with a book under hisarm. It is quite impossible for them to know him, and they walk alongwith him arm in arm, as if he, too, were a student like themselves. andthen, unperceived, he thrusts an arrow to their bosom. When the youngmaidens come from being examined by the clergyman, or go to church tobe confirmed, there he is again close behind them. Yes, he is foreverfollowing people. At the play, he sits in the great chandelier and burnsin bright flames, so that people think it is really a flame, but theysoon discover it is something else. He roves about in the garden of thepalace and upon the ramparts: yes, once he even shot your father andmother right in the heart. Ask them only and you will hear what they'lltell you. Oh, he is a naughty boy, that Cupid. you must never haveanything to do with him. He is forever running after everybody. Onlythink, he shot an arrow once at your old grandmother! But that is along time ago, and it is all past now. however, a thing of that sort shenever forgets. Fie, naughty Cupid! But now you know him, and you know,too, how ill behaved he is!