Hiram, king of Tyre, was a foolish old man. He lived so long and grewto such a venerable age that he absuredly imagined he would never die.The idea gained strength daily in his mind and thus he mused:"David, king of the Jews, I knew, and afterward his son, the wise KingSolomon. But wise as he was, Solomon had to appeal to me forassistance in building his wondrous Temple, and it was only with theaid of the skilled workmen I sent to him that he successfullyaccomplished the erection of that structure. David, the sweet singerin Israel, who, as a mere boy slew the giant Goliath, has passed away.I still live. It must be that I shall never die. Men die. Gods livefor ever. I must be a god, and why not?"He put that question to the chief of his counselors, who, however, wasmuch too wise to answer it. Now the counselors of the king had neveryet failed to answer his queries, and so Hiram felt sure he had atlast puzzled them by a question beyond the power of mortal man toanswer. That was another proof, he told himself, that he was differentfrom other men and kings that, in short, he was a god."I must be, I must be," he muttered to himself, and he repeated thisto himself so regularly that he came to the conclusion it was true."It is not I, but the voice of the Spirit of God that is in me thatspeaks," he said to himself, and he thought this remark so clever thathe regarded it as still further proof. It is so easy to delude one'sself.Then he decided to make the great secret known to the people, and thedoddering old man thought if he would do this in an unusual way, hissubjects would have no doubts. He did not make a proclamationcommanding everybody to believe in him as a god. he whispered thesecret first to his chief counselor and instructed him to tell it toone person daily and to order all who were informed to do likewise. Inthis way the news soon spread to the remotest corners of the country,for if you work out a little sum you will discover that if you takethe figure one and double it thus: two, four, eight, sixteen, and soon, it will run into millions.In spite of this, nothing happened. Hiram, now quite idiotic,commanded the people to worship him. Some obeyed, fearing that if theyrefused they would be punished, or even put to death. Others declaredthere was no evidence that the king was a god. This came to theknowledge of Hiram and troubled him sorely."What proof do the unbelievers require?" he asked of his counselors.They hesitated to reply, but presently the vizier, a shrewd old manwith a long beard, said quietly, "I have heard people say a god musthave a heaven from which to hurl lightning and thunderbolts, and aparadise in which to dwell.""I shall have a heaven and a paradise," said Hiram, after a fewmoments' silence, adding to himself: "If Solomon could build amarvelous temple by the help of my workmen, surely I can devise aparadise."He spent so much thought over this that it seemed to become easiereach day. Besides, it would be so nice to live in a paradise all tohimself. At first he decided to build a great big palace of gold, withwindows of precious stones. There would be a high tower on which thethrone would be placed so far above the people that they must beimpressed with the fact that he was God.Then it occurred to him this would not do. A palace, however vast andbeautiful, would only be a building, not a paradise. Day and night hepondered and worried until his head ached badly. Then one day, whilewatching a ship on the sea, an extraordinary idea came into his head."I will build a palace which will seem to hang above the water onnothing!" he said to himself, chuckling. "None but a god couldconceive such a brilliant idea."Hiram set about his ingenious plan at once. He sent trusted envoys farand wide for skilled divers. Only those who did not know the languageof the country were selected. Hiram himself gave them their orders andthey worked only at night, so that none should see or know of theirwork. Their task was to fasten four huge pillars to the bottom of thesea. Their work completed, the divers were well paid and sent away.Next, a different gang of workmen was brought from a strange land.They constructed a platform on the pillars in the sea. Then a thirdlot of artisans began to erect a wonderful edifice on the platform.They, too, only worked at night, but the building could no longer beconcealed. It was showing itself above the sea. The people weretherefore told, by royal proclamation, in these words:I, Hiram of Tyre, the King, and of all the People,GOD OMNIPOTENT,Hereby make known to you that it has become my pleasure toreveal unto you myPARADISEwhich hitherto I have concealed in the clouds. Ye who are worthyshall behold itTODAY!Of all the clever things he had done, Hiram believed the compositionof that proclamation the cleverest."Those who do not see, will think themselves unworthy," he said, "andwill tremble in fear of my wrath. They will see a little more each dayand will think themselves growing worthy. And they will believe. theymust, when they see it all. Besides, they will look upward, toward theclouds, to see the paradise descending. They will never think oflooking below to see it rising."And so it happened. The people could not help but be impressed whenthey saw the amazing structure. It grew daily, apparently of its ownaccord, for no workmen were seen. and most wonderful of all, it seemedto rest on nothing in the air!This was because the first story was of clearest glass, so clear,indeed, that the people saw through it and thought they saw nothing.On this the other stories were erected, and, of course, they appearedto be suspended in space.There were seven stories to represent seven heavens. The second, theone above the glass, was constructed of iron, the third was of lead,the fourth of shining brass, the fifth of burnished copper, the sixthof glistening silver, and the last story of all, of pure gold.The whole building was lavishly studded with precious stones, gems andjewels of many hues. By day, when the sun shone and was reflected fromthe thousands of jewels and the polished metals, the appearance wasdazzling. the people could not help but regard as a heaven that whichthey could scarcely look upon without being blinded. In the settingsun the uppermost story, with its huge golden dome, glowed like anexpanse of fire. and by night, the myriad gems twinkled likeadditional stars.Yet some people would not believe this was a paradise, and so Hiramhad to set his wits to work again."Thunder and lightning I must produce," he said, and this part of hisambition he found not at all difficult.In the second story he kept huge boulders and round heavy stones. Whenthese were rolled about the people thought the noise was thunder. Bymeans of many revolving windows and reflectors, Hiram could flash alight on the town and delude simple people, who were easily impressedand frightened, into the belief that they saw lightning."When I am seated here above the forces of the storm," said Hiram,"the people must surely accept me as God and extol me above all mortalkings."He was foolishly happy on his throne in the clouds, but his counselorsshook their heads. They knew that such folly would meet with its duepunishment. They warned Hiram against remaining in his paradise duringa storm, but he replied, in a rage: "I, the God of the storm, am notafraid."But when the real thunder rolled and the lightning flashed all aroundhis paradise, Hiram lost his boastful courage. He saw visions.Trembling in every limb, he crouched on his throne and imagined he sawangels and demons and fairies dancing round him and jeering at hispretensions and his wonderful structure.The storm grew fiercer, the lightning more vivid, the thunder crasheslouder, and Hiram screamed when there was a tremendous noise ofcrashing glass. The first story could not withstand the terriblebuffeting of the waves. It cracked and crumbled. There was no supportleft for the six heavens above. They could no longer hang in space.With a mighty crash, that struck terror into the hearts of thebeholders, the whole structure collapsed in a thousand pieces in thesea.Marvelous to relate, Hiram was not killed or drowned. It seemed amiracle that he should be saved, but such was the case. and somepeople thought that proved him to be a god more than his unfortunateparadise. But his life was only spared to end in greater misery andsorrow. He was dethroned by Nebuchadnezzar and ended his days awretched captive. And all the people knew that Hiram, once the greatking of Tyre, the friend of King David and King Solomon, was but amortal and a foolish one.