Once upon a time there lived a lion and a lioness who inhabited a den amongst some rocks on the slopes of a mountain. They were both very fine, well grown animals, and they used to prey upon all the smaller beasts in that part of the country. until at last they became so powerful that no other animal was safe from their clutches, and the wild beasts of the neighborhood lived in a continual state of terror.It chanced one day that while the lion was hunting for something to eat, he came across a hare sleeping behind a boulder. and seizing the hare in his great paws he was just about to devour him, when the hare spoke as follows:"Oh! Uncle Lion," said he, "before eating me I just want to tell you about another animal who lives in that pond down there in the valley. He is very big and fierce, and I think he must be even stronger than you are. But if you will allow me to do so I will show you where he lives, and if you can succeed in killing him, he will make a very much better meal for you than a poor little beast like me."On hearing this the lion was very indignant. "What!" said he, "do you mean to tell me that there is any animal in this country stronger and more powerful than I am? Don't you know that I am the lord of this district, and that I should never allow anyone else to dispute the mastery with me. Show me at once where this creature lives, and I will show you how I shall deal with him.""Oh! Uncle Lion," said the hare, "let me beg you to be careful. You have no idea what a big, strong creature this is. you must on no account allow yourself to be injured by fighting with him. Think what a grief it would be to us all if you were to come to any harm."This remark of the hare's made the lion more angry than before, and he insisted that the hare should at once lead him down and show him where the other animal lived. So the hare, after again begging him to be careful of himself, preceded him down the hill until they arrived at the edge of a square built stone tank, which was nearly full of water."Now, Uncle Lion," said the hare, "if you will go to the edge of that tank and look down into the water you will see the animal I speak of."So saying he moved on one side, and the lion, stalking to the edge, peered down into the tank. The water was very smooth, and on the clear surface he saw his own head reflected."There he is," called out the hare from the background. "there he is, Uncle Lion, I can see him quite plainly in the water. You see how fierce he is looking. please be careful not to start fighting with him."These remarks made the lion more angry than ever, and he moved up and down on the brink of the tank, glaring fiercely at his own reflection in the water, and growling and showing his teeth at it."That's right, Uncle Lion," called out the hare. "I am so glad you are taking good care of yourself. Don't on any account come to grips with that beast in the water, or he might do you an injury. You are certainly much safer on the bank, and no doubt you will frighten him if you continue to growl and show your teeth."These last observations of the hare goaded the lion to desperation, and with a fierce roar he sprang straight at the image in the water. Once in the tank he was unable to get out, for its sides were built of masonry, and it was impossible for him to climb them. So he swam about for some time in the tank, whilst the hare, sitting on the bank, threw stones at him and made nasty remarks. and finally, when quite wearied out, he sank to the bottom and was drowned.The hare was very pleased at having accomplished the destruction of the lion, and he now turned his attention to the lioness.It happened that nearby there was a thick wall standing, which was part of the remains of a ruined castle. and in one portion of the wall there was a hole, very large at one end and tapering down to quite a small opening at the other. The hare, having studied his ground, went off next morning to find the lioness. He soon came across her stalking up and down near her den, very much perturbed at the disappearance of her lord and master."Good morning, Aunt Lioness," said the hare, going up cautiously towards her. "what is the matter with you this morning? How is it I find you pacing here in front of your den instead of hunting your prey as usual on the hillside?"The lioness took no notice of the hare, except to growl at him in an angry manner, and to lash her sides with her tail."I suppose," went on the hare, "you are anxious about Mr. Lion, but I am sorry to tell you that you are not likely to see him again for some time. The fact is, he and I had a little argument yesterday, in which we both lost our tempers. It ended in our having a free fight, and I regret to say that I was obliged to injure Mr. Lion rather severely before I could make him see reason, and he is now lying in a dying state in the valley below."This impudence so enraged the lioness that she sprang towards the hare and endeavoured to seize him. but he eluded her and galloped off down the hill hotly pursued by the angry beast.The hare made straight for the ruined wall, and entering the breach in the wall at the large end he emerged safely at the other side by the smaller recess, which was just large enough for him to pass through. The lioness, following closely at his heels, was so blind with rage that she did not see that she was being led into a trap. so she rushed head foremost into the opening in the wall, and before she had time to stop herself was wedged tightly in the tapering hole. She struggled violently, trying to extricate herself, but all in vain.Meanwhile the hare, having cantered round to the other side, took up its position in rear of the lioness, and began pelting her with stones and calling her all the bad names he could think of. When he was tired of this he went off home very pleased with himself, and the lioness, being unable to free herself from the trap she was in, shortly afterwards starved to death.