Notes on the Folk Lore of the North East of Scotland"The fair folk" were most covetous of new born children and their mothers.Tillthe mothers were "sained" and churched, and the children were baptized,the moststrict watch and ward had to be kept over them to keep them from beingstolen.Every seven years they had to pay "the teind to hell," and to save themfrompaying this tribute with one of themselves they were ever on the alert togethold of human infants.There came a wind oot o' the north,A sharp wind and a snell.And a dead sleep came over me,And frae my horse I fell.The Queen of Fairies she was there,And took me to hersel.And never would I tire, Janet,In fairyland to dwell,But aye, at every seven yearsThey pay the teind to hell.And though the Queen macks much o' meI fear 'twill be mysel.Sometimes they succeeded in carrying off an unbaptized infant, and for ittheyleft one of their own. The one left by them soon began to "dwine," and tofretand cry night and day. At times the child has been saved from them asthey werecarrying it through the dog hole.A fisherman had a fine thriving baby. One day what looked like a beggarwomanentered the house. She went to the cradle in which the baby was lying,andhandled it under pretense of admiring it. From that day the child didnothingbut fret and cry and waste away.This had gone on for some months, when one day a beggar man entered askingalms.As he was getting his alms his eye lighted upon the infant in the cradle.After looking on it for some time he said, "That's nae a bairn. that's animage.the bairn's been stoun." He immediately set to work to bring back thechild.He heaped up a large fire on the hearth, and ordered a black hen to bebroughtto him. When the fire was blazing at its full strength, he took the henandheld her over the fire as near it as possible, so as not to kill her. Thebirdstruggled for a little, then escaped from the man's grasp, and flew out bythe"lum." The child was restored, and throve every day afterwards.Another. A strong healthy boy in the parish of Tyrie began to "dwine."Thereal baby had been stolen. A wise woman gave the means of bringing himback.His clothes were to be taken to a south running well, washed, laid out todrybeside the well, and most carefully watched. This was done for some time,butno one came to take them away. The next thing to be done was to take thechildhimself and lay him between two furrows in a cornfield. This was carriedout,and the child throve daily afterwards. All this was annoying to the "fairfolk,"and rather than submit to such annoyance they restored the child, and tookbacktheir own one.One day a fisherwoman with her baby was left a bed alone, when in came alittleman dressed in green. He proceeded at once to lay hold of the baby. Thewomanknew at once who the little man was and what he intended to do. Sheuttered theprayer, "God be atween you an me." Out rushed the fairy in a moment, andthewoman and her baby were left without further molestation.