Once upon a time there was a youth who used to herd buffaloes. and ashe watched his animals graze he noticed that exactly at noon every day ashe dog used to make its way to a ravine, in which there were some poolsof water. This made him curious and he wondered to whom it belonged andwhat it did in the ravine. So he decided to watch, and one day when thedog came he hid himself and saw that when it got to the water, it shed itsdog skin, and out stepped a beautiful maiden and began to bathe. And whenshe had finished bathing she put on the skin and became a dog again, andwent off to the village. The herdboy followed her and watched into whathouse she entered, and he inquired to whom the house belonged. Havingfound out all about it, he went back to his work.That year the herdboy's father and mother decided that it was time forhim to marry and began to look about for a wife for him. But he announcedthat he had made up his mind to have a dog for his wife, and he wouldnever marry a human girl.Everyone laughed at him for such an extraordinary idea, but he couldnot be moved. So at last they concluded that he must really have the soulof a dog in him, and that it was best to let him have his own way. So hisfather and mother asked him whether there was any particular dog he wouldlike to have for his bride, and then he gave the name of the man intowhose house he had tracked the dog that he had seen going to the ravine.The master of the dog laughed at the idea that anyone should wish to marryher, and gladly accepted a bride's price for her. So a day was fixed forthe wedding and the booth built for the ceremony, and the bridegroom'sparty went to the bride's house, and the marriage took place in due form,and the bride was escorted to her husband's house.Every night when her husband was asleep, the bride used to come out ofthe dog's skin and go out of the house. And when her husband found outthis, he one night only pretended to go to sleep and lay watching her. Andwhen she was about to leave the room he jumped up and caught hold of herand seizing the dog skin, threw it into the fire, where it was burnt toashes. So his bride remained a woman, but she was of more than humanbeauty. This soon became known in the village, and everyone congratulatedthe herdboy on his wisdom in marrying a dog.Now the herdboy had a friend named Jitu, and when Jitu saw what a prizehis friend had got, he thought that he could not do better than marry adog himself. His relations made no objection, and a bride was selected,and the marriage took place, but when they were putting vermilion on thebride's forehead she began to growl. but in spite of her growling theydragged her to the bridegroom's house, and forcibly anointed her with oiland turmeric. But when the bride's party set off home, the dog broke looseand ran after them. Then everyone shouted to Jitu to run after his brideand bring her back, but she only growled and bit at him, so that he had atlast to give it up.Then everyone laughed at him so much that he was too ashamed to speak,and two or three days later he hanged himself.