Once upon a time a mouse, a bird, and a sausage formed a partnership.They kept house together, and for a long time they lived in peace andprosperity, acquiring many possessions. The bird's task was to fly intothe forest every day to fetch wood. The mouse carried water, made thefire, and set the table. The sausage did the cooking.Whoever is too well off always wants to try something different! Thusone day the bird chanced to meet another bird, who boasted to him of hisown situation. This bird criticized him for working so hard while theother two enjoyed themselves at home. For after the mouse had made thefire and carried the water, she could sit in the parlor and rest until itwas time for her to set the table. The sausage had only to stay by the potwatching the food cook. When mealtime approached, she would slitherthrough the porridge or the vegetables, and thus everything was greasedand salted and ready to eat. The bird would bring his load of wood home.They would eat their meal, and then sleep soundly until the next morning.It was a great life.The next day, because of his friend's advice, the bird refused to go tothe forest, saying that he had been their servant long enough. He was nolonger going to be a fool for them. Everyone should try a different taskfor a change. The mouse and the sausage argued against this, but the birdwas the master, and he insisted that they give it a try. The sausage wasto fetch wood, the mouse became the cook, and the bird was to carrywater.And what was the result? The sausage trudged off toward the forest. thebird made the fire. and the mouse put on the pot and waited for thesausage to return with wood for the next day. However, the sausage stayedout so long that the other two feared that something bad had happened. Thebird flew off to see if he could find her. A short distance away he cameupon a dog that had seized the sausage as free booty and was making offwith her. The bird complained bitterly to the dog about this brazenabduction, but he claimed that he had discovered forged letters on thesausage, and that she would thus have to forfeit her life to him.Filled with sorrow, the bird carried the wood home himself and told themouse what he had seen and heard. They were very sad, but were determinedto stay together and make the best of it. The bird set the table while themouse prepared the food. She jumped into the pot, as the sausage hadalways done, in order to slither and weave in and about the vegetables andgrease them, but before she reached the middle, her hair and skin werescalded off, and she perished.When the bird wanted to eat, no cook was there. Beside himself, hethrew the wood this way and that, called out, looked everywhere, but nocook was to be found. Because of his carelessness, the scattered woodcaught fire, and the entire house was soon aflame. The bird rushed tofetch water, but the bucket fell into the well, carrying him with it, andhe drowned.