If you drop Vladimir by mistake, you know he always falls on his feet.And if Vladimir tumbles off the roof of the hut, he always falls onhis feet. Cats always fall on their feet, on their four paws, andnever hurt themselves. And as in tumbling, so it is in life. No cat isever unfortunate for very long. The worse things look for a cat, thebetter they are going to be.Well, once upon a time, not so very long ago, an old peasant had a catand did not like him. He was a tom cat, always fighting. and he hadlost one ear, and was not very pretty to look at. The peasant thoughthe would get rid of his old cat, and buy a new one from a neighbour.He did not care what became of the old tom cat with one ear, so longas he never saw him again. It was no use thinking of killing him, forit is a life's work to kill a cat, and it's likely enough that the catwould come alive at the end.So the old peasant he took a sack, and he bundled the tom cat into thesack, and he sewed up the sack and slung it over his back, and walkedoff into the forest. Off he went, trudging along in the summersunshine, deep into the forest. And when he had gone very many verstsinto the forest, he took the sack with the cat in it and threw it awayamong the trees."You stay there," says he, "and if you do get out in this desolateplace, much good may it do you, old quarrelsome bundle of bones andfur!"And with that he turned round and trudged home again, and bought anice looking, quiet cat from a neighbour in exchange for a littletobacco, and settled down comfortably at home with the new cat infront of the stove. and there he may be to this day, so far as I know.My story does not bother with him, but only with the old tom cat tiedup in the sack away there out in the forest.The bag flew through the air, and plumped down through a bush to theground. And the old tom cat landed on his feet inside it, very muchfrightened but not hurt. Thinks he, this bag, this flight through theair, this bump, mean that my life is going to change. Very well. thereis nothing like something new now and again.And presently he began tearing at the bag with his sharp claws. Soonthere was a hole he could put a paw through. He went on, tearing andscratching, and there was a hole he could put two paws through. Hewent on with his work, and soon he could put his head through, all theeasier because he had only one ear. A minute or two after that he hadwriggled out of the bag, and stood up on his four paws and stretchedhimself in the forest."The world seems to be larger than the village," he said. "I will walkon and see what there is in it."He washed himself all over, curled his tail proudly up in the air,cocked the only ear he had left, and set off walking under the foresttrees."I was the head cat in the village," says he to himself. "If all goeswell, I shall be head here too." And he walked along as if he were theTzar himself.Well, he walked on and on, and he came to an old hut that had belongedto a forester. There was nobody there, nor had been for many years,and the old tom cat made himself quite at home. He climbed up intothe loft under the roof, and found a little rotten hay."A very good bed," says he, and curls up and falls asleep.When he woke he felt hungry, so he climbed down and went off in theforest to catch little birds and mice. There were plenty of them inthe forest, and when he had eaten enough he came back to the hut,climbed into the loft, and spent the night there very comfortably.You would have thought he would be content. Not he. He was a cat. Hesaid, "This is a good enough lodging. But I have to catch all my ownfood. In the village they fed me every day, and I only caught mice forfun. I ought to be able to live like that here. A person of my dignityought not to have to do all the work for himself."Next day he went walking in the forest. And as he was walking he met afox, a vixen, a very pretty young thing, gay and giddy like all girls.And the fox saw the cat, and was very much astonished."All these years," she said for though she was young she thought shehad lived a long time "all these years," she said, "I've lived inthe forest, but I've never seen a wild beast like that before. What astrange looking animal! And with only one ear. How handsome!"And she came up and made her bows to the cat, and said, "Tell me, great lord, who you are. What fortunate chance has broughtyou to this forest? And by what name am I to call your Excellency?"Oh! the fox was very polite. It is not every day that you meet ahandsome stranger walking in the forest.The cat arched his back, and set all his fur on end, and said, veryslowly and quietly, "I have been sent from the far forests of Siberia to be Head foresterover you. And my name is Cat Ivanovitch.""O Cat Ivanovitch!" says the pretty young fox, and she makes morebows. "I did not know. I beg your Excellency's pardon. Will yourExcellency honour my humble house by visiting it as a guest?""I will," says the cat. "And what do they call you?""My name, your Excellency, is Lisabeta Ivanovna.""I will come with you, Lisabeta," says the cat.And they went together to the fox's earth. Very snug, very neat it wasinside. and the cat curled himself up in the best place, whileLisabeta Ivanovna, the pretty young fox, made ready a tasty dish ofgame. And while she was making the meal ready, and dusting thefurniture with her tail, she looked at the cat. At last she said,shyly, "Tell me, Cat Ivanovitch, are you married or single?""Single," says the cat."And I too am unmarried," says the pretty young fox, and goes busilyon with her dusting and cooking.Presently she looks at the cat again."What if we were to marry, Cat Ivanovitch? I would try to be a goodwife to you.""Very well, Lisabeta," says the cat. "I will marry you."The fox went to her store and took out all the dainties that she had,and made a wedding feast to celebrate her marriage to the great CatIvanovitch, who had only one ear, and had come from the far Siberianforests to be Head forester.They ate up everything there was in the place.Next morning the pretty young fox went off busily into the forest toget food for her grand husband. But the old tom cat stayed at home,and cleaned his whiskers and slept. He was a lazy one, was that cat,and proud.The fox was running through the forest, looking for game, when she metan old friend, the handsome young wolf, and he began making politespeeches to her."What had become of you, gossip?" says he. "I've been to all the bestearths and not found you at all.""Let be, fool," says the fox very shortly. "Don't talk to me likethat. What are you jesting about? Formerly I was a young, unmarriedfox. now I am a wedded wife.""Whom have you married, Lisabeta Ivanovna?""What!" says the fox, "you have not heard that the great CatIvanovitch, who has only one ear, has been sent from the far Siberianforests to be Head forester over all of us? Well, I am now theHead forester's wife.""No, I had not heard, Lisabeta Ivanovna. And when can I pay myrespects to his Excellency?""Not now, not now," says the fox. "Cat Ivanovitch will be raging angrywith me if I let any one come near him. Presently he will be takinghis food. Look you. Get a sheep, and make it ready, and bring it as agreeting to him, to show him that he is welcome and that you know howto treat him with respect. Leave the sheep near by, and hide yourselfso that he shall not see you. for, if he did, things might beawkward.""Thank you, thank you, Lisabeta Ivanovna," says the wolf, and off hegoes to look for a sheep.The pretty young fox went idly on, taking the air, for she knew thatthe wolf would save her the trouble of looking for food.Presently she met the bear."Good day to you, Lisabeta Ivanovna," says the bear. "as pretty asever, I see you are.""Bandy legged one," says the fox. "fool, don't come worrying me.Formerly I was a young, unmarried fox. now I am a wedded wife.""I beg your pardon," says the bear, "whom have you married, LisabetaIvanovna?""The great Cat Ivanovitch has been sent from the far Siberian foreststo be Head forester over us all. And Cat Ivanovitch is now myhusband," says the fox."Is it forbidden to have a look at his Excellency?""It is forbidden," says the fox. "Cat Ivanovitch will be raging angrywith me if I let any one come near him. Presently he will be takinghis food. Get along with you quickly. make ready an ox, and bring itby way of welcome to him. The wolf is bringing a sheep. And look you.Leave the ox near by, and hide yourself so that the great CatIvanovitch shall not see you. or else, brother, things may beawkward."The bear shambled off as fast as he could go to get an ox.The pretty young fox, enjoying the fresh air of the forest, wentslowly home to her earth, and crept in very quietly, so as not toawake the great Head forester, Cat Ivanovitch, who had only one earand was sleeping in the best place.Presently the wolf came through the forest, dragging a sheep he hadkilled. He did not dare to go too near the fox's earth, because of CatIvanovitch, the new Head forester. So he stopped, well out of sight,and stripped off the skin of the sheep, and arranged the sheep so asto seem a nice tasty morsel. Then he stood still, thinking what to donext. He heard a noise, and looked up. There was the bear, strugglingalong with a dead ox."Good day, brother Michael Ivanovitch," says the wolf."Good day, brother Levon Ivanovitch," says the bear. "Have you seenthe fox, Lisabeta Ivanovna, with her husband, the Head forester?""No, brother," says the wolf. "For a long time I have been waiting tosee them.""Go on and call out to them," says the bear."No, Michael Ivanovitch," says the wolf, "I will not go. Do you go.you are bigger and bolder than I.""No, no, Levon Ivanovitch, I will not go. There is no use in riskingone's life without need."Suddenly, as they were talking, a little hare came running by. Thebear saw him first, and roared out, "Hi, Squinteye! trot along here."The hare came up, slowly, two steps at a time, trembling with fright."Now then, you squinting rascal," says the bear, "do you know wherethe fox lives, over there?""I know, Michael Ivanovitch.""Get along there quickly, and tell her that Michael Ivanovitch thebear and his brother Levon Ivanovitch the wolf have been ready for along time, and have brought presents of a sheep and an ox, asgreetings to his Excellency ...""His Excellency, mind," says the wolf. "don't forget."The hare ran off as hard as he could go, glad to have escaped soeasily. Meanwhile the wolf and the bear looked about for good placesin which to hide."It will be best to climb trees," says the bear. "I shall go up to thetop of this fir.""But what am I to do?" says the wolf. "I can't climb a tree for thelife of me. Brother Michael, Brother Michael, hide me somewhere orother before you climb up. I beg you, hide me, or I shall certainly bekilled.""Crouch down under these bushes," says the bear, "and I will cover youwith the dead leaves.""May you be rewarded," says the wolf. and he crouched down under thebushes, and the bear covered him up with dead leaves, so that only thetip of his nose could be seen.Then the bear climbed slowly up into the fir tree, into the very top,and looked out to see if the fox and Cat Ivanovitch were coming.They were coming. oh yes, they were coming! The hare ran up andknocked on the door, and said to the fox, "Michael Ivanovitch the bear and his brother Levon Ivanovitch thewolf have been ready for a long time, and have brought presents of asheep and an ox as greetings to his Excellency.""Get along, Squinteye," says the fox. "we are just coming."And so the fox and the cat set out together.The bear, up in the top of the tree, saw them, and called down to thewolf, "They are coming, Brother Levon. they are coming, the fox and herhusband. But what a little one he is, to be sure!""Quiet, quiet," whispers the wolf. "He'll hear you, and then we aredone for."The cat came up, and arched his back and set all his furs on end, andthrew himself on the ox, and began tearing the meat with his teeth andclaws. And as he tore he purred. And the bear listened, and heard thepurring of the cat, and it seemed to him that the cat was angrilymuttering, "Small, small, small...."And the bear whispers: "He's no giant, but what a glutton! Why, wecouldn't get through a quarter of that, and he finds it not enough.Heaven help us if he comes after us!"The wolf tried to see, but could not, because his head, all but hisnose, was covered with the dry leaves. Little by little he moved hishead, so as to clear the leaves away from in front of his eyes. Try ashe would to be quiet, the leaves rustled, so little, ever so little,but enough to be heard by the one ear of the cat.The cat stopped tearing the meat and listened."I haven't caught a mouse to day," he thought.Once more the leaves rustled.The cat leapt through the air and dropped with all four paws, and hisclaws out, on the nose of the wolf. How the wolf yelped! The leavesflew like dust, and the wolf leapt up and ran off as fast as his legscould carry him.Well, the wolf was frightened, I can tell you, but he was not sofrightened as the cat.When the great wolf leapt up out of the leaves, the cat screamed andran up the nearest tree, and that was the tree where MichaelIvanovitch the bear was hiding in the topmost branches."Oh, he has seen me. Cat Ivanovitch has seen me," thought the bear. Hehad no time to climb down, and the cat was coming up in long leaps.The bear trusted to Providence, and jumped from the top of the tree.Many were the branches he broke as he fell. many were the bones hebroke when he crashed to the ground. He picked himself up and stumbledoff, groaning.The pretty young fox sat still, and cried out, "Run, run, BrotherLevon!... Quicker on your pins, Brother Michael! His Excellency isbehind you. his Excellency is close behind!"Ever since then all the wild beasts have been afraid of the cat, andthe cat and the fox live merrily together, and eat fresh meat all theyear round, which the other animals kill for them and leave a littleway off.And that is what happened to the old tom cat with one eye, who wassewn up in a bag and thrown away in the forest."Just think what would happen to our handsome Vladimir if we were tothrow him away!" said Vanya.