A mouse, a rat, and a little red hen once lived together in the same cabin, and one day the little red hen said, "Let us bake a cake and have a feast.""Let us," says the mouse. and "Let us," says the rat."Who'll go get the wheat ground?" says the hen."I won't," says the mouse. "I won't," says the rat. "I'll go myself," says the little red hen."Who'll make the cake?"I won't," says the mouse. "I won't," says the rat. "I will myself," saysthe little red hen."Who'll eat the cake?""I will," says the mouse. "I will," says the rat. "Dickens a bit you shall," says the little red hen.Well, while the hen was putting over her hand to it, magh go brath with it out of the door, and after it with the three housekeepers.When it was running away, it went by a barn full of thrashers, and they asked it where it was running."Oh," says it, "I'm running away from the mouse, the rat, and the little red hen, and from you too if I can."So they piked away after it with their flails, and it run and it run till it came to a ditch full of ditchers, and they asked it where it was running."Oh, I'm running away from the mouse, the rat, and the little red hen, and from a barn full of thrashers, and from you too if I can."Well they all ran after it along with the rest till it came to a well full of washers, and they asked the same question, and it returned the same answer, and after it they went.At last it came to a ford where it met with a fox, who asked where it was running."Oh, I'm running away from the mouse, the rat, and the little red hen, from a barn full of thrashers, a ditch full of ditchers, a well full of washers, a crumply horned cow, a saddled backed sow, and from you too if I can.""But you can't cross the ford," says the fox."And can't you carry me over?" says the cake."What'll you give me?" says the fox."A kiss at Christmas, and an egg at Easter," says the cake."Very well," says the fox." Up with you."So he sat on his currabingo with his nose in the air, and the cake got up by his tail till it sat on his crupper."Now over with you," says the cake."You're not high enough."Then it scrambled up on his shoulder."Up higher still," says he, "you wouldn't be safe there.""Am I right now ?" says the cake, when it was on his head."Not quite," says he. "you'll be safer on the ridge pole of my nose.""Well," says the cake, "I think I can go no further.""Oh, yes," says he, and he shot it up in the air, caught it in his mouth, and sent it down the red lane.