In a certain village there lived an old Brahman who had three sons anda daughter. The girl being the youngest was brought up most tenderly andbecome spoilt, and so whenever she saw a beautiful boy she would say toher parents that she must be wedded to him. Her parents were, therefore,much put about to devise excuses for taking her away from her youthfullovers. Thus passed on some years, until the girl was very nearly grownup, and then the parents, fearing that they would be driven out of theircaste if they failed to dispose of her hand in marriage before she came tothe years of maturity, began to be eager about finding a bridegroom forher.Now near their village there lived a fierce tiger, that had attained togreat proficiency in the art of magic, and had the power of assumingdifferent forms. Having a great taste for Brahman's food, the tiger usednow and then to frequent temples and other places of public refreshment inthe shape of an old famished Brahman in order to share the food preparedfor the Brahmans. The tiger also wanted, if possible, a Brahman wife totake to the woods, and there to make her cook his meals after her fashion.One day, when he was partaking of his meals in Brahman shape at a publicfeeding place, he heard the talk about the Brahman girl who was alwaysfalling in love with every beautiful Brahman boy.Said he to himself, "Praised be the face that I saw first this morning.I shall assume the shape of a Brahman boy, and appear as beautiful as canbe, and win the heart of the girl."Next morning he accordingly assumed the form of a Brahman teacherproficient in the Ramayana near the landing of the sacred river of thevillage. Scattering holy ashes profusely over his body he opened theRamayana and began to read."The voice of the new teacher is most enchanting. Let us go and hearhim," said some women among themselves, and sat down before him to hearhim expound the great book. The girl for whom the tiger had assumed thisshape came in due time to bathe at the river, and as soon as she saw thenew teacher fell in love with him, and bothered her old mother to speak toher father about him, so as not to lose her new lover. The old woman toowas delighted at the bridegroom whom fortune had thrown in her way, andran home to her husband, who, when he came and saw the teacher, raised uphis hands in praise of the great god Mahesvara. The teacher was nowinvited to take his meals with them, and as he had come with the expressintention of marrying the daughter, he, of course, agreed.A grand dinner followed in honor of the teacher, and his host began toquestion him as to his parentage, etc., to which the cunning tiger repliedthat he was born in a village beyond the adjacent wood. The Brahman had notime to wait for further inquiries, and as the boy was very fair hemarried his daughter to him the very next day. Feasts followed for amonth, during which time the bridegroom gave every satisfaction to his newrelatives, who supposed him to be human all the while. He also did fulljustice to the Brahman dishes, and swallowed everything that was placedbefore him.After the first month was over the tiger bridegroom yearned for hisaccustomed prey, and hankered after his abode in the woods. A change ofdiet for a day or two is all very well, but to renounce his own properfood for more than a month was hard. So one day he said to hisfather in law, "I must go back soon to my old parents, for they will bepining at my absence. But why should we have to bear the double expense ofmy coming all the way here again to take my wife to my village? So if youwill kindly let me take the girl with me I shall take her to her futurehome, and hand her over to her mother in law, and see that she is welltaken care of."The old Brahman agreed to this, and replied, "My dear son in law, youare her husband, and she is yours, and we now send her with you, though itis like sending her into the wilderness with her eyes tied up. But as wetake you to be everything to her, we trust you to treat her kindly."The mother of the bride shed tears at the idea of having to send heraway, but nevertheless the very next day was fixed for the journey. Theold woman spent the whole day in preparing cakes and sweetmeats for herdaughter, and when the time for the journey arrived, she took care toplace in her bundles and on her head one or two margosa leaves to keep offdemons. The relatives of the bride requested her husband to allow her torest wherever she found shade, and to eat wherever she found water, and tothis he agreed, and so they began their journey.The boy tiger and his human wife pursued their journey for an hour orso in free and pleasant conversation, when the girl happened to see a finepond, around which the birds were warbling their sweet notes. Sherequested her husband to follow her to the water's edge and to partake ofsome of the cakes and sweetmeats with her.But he replied, "Be quiet, or I shall show you my original shape."This made her afraid, so she pursued her journey in silence until shesaw another pond, when she asked the same question of her husband, whoreplied in the same tone.Now she was very hungry, and not liking her husband's tone, which shefound had greatly changed ever since they had entered the woods, said tohim, "Show me your original shape."No sooner were these words uttered than her husband's form changed fromthat of a man. Four legs, striped skin, a long tail, and a tiger's facecame over him suddenly and, horror of horrors! a tiger and not a man stoodbefore her! Nor were her fears stilled when the tiger in human voice beganas follows: "Know henceforth that I, your husband, am a tiger   this verytiger that now speaks to you. If you have any regard for your life youmust obey all my orders implicitly, for I can speak to you in human voice,and understand what you say. In an hour or so we shall reach my home, ofwhich you will become the mistress. In the front of my house you will seehalf a dozen tubs, each of which you must fill up daily with some dish orother, cooked in your own way. I shall take care to supply you with allthe provisions you want." So saying the tiger slowly conducted her to hishouse.The misery of the girl may more be imagined than described, for if shewere to object she would be put to death. So, weeping all the way, shereached her husband's house. Leaving her there he went out and returnedwith several pumpkins and some flesh, of which she soon prepared a curryand gave it to her husband. He went out again after this and returned inthe evening with several vegetables and some more flesh, and gave her anorder, "Every morning I shall go out in search of provisions and prey, andbring something with me on my return. you must keep cooked for me whateverI leave in the house."So next morning as soon as the tiger had gone away she cookedeverything left in the house and filled all the tubs with food. At thefourth hour the tiger returned and growled out, "I smell a man! I smell awoman in my wood." And his wife for very fear shut herself up in thehouse.As soon as the tiger had satisfied his appetite he told her to open thedoor, which she did, and they talked together for a time, after which thetiger rested awhile, and then went out hunting again. Thus passed many aday, until the tiger's Brahman wife had a son, which also turned out to beonly a tiger.One day, after the tiger had gone out to the woods, his wife was cryingall alone in the house, when a crow happened to peck at some rice that wasscattered near her, and seeing the girl crying, began to shed tears."Can you assist me?" asked the girl."Yes," said the crow.So she brought out a palmyra leaf and wrote on it with an iron nail allher sufferings in the wood, and requested her brothers to come and relieveher. This palmyra leaf she tied to the neck of the crow, which, seeming tounderstand her thoughts, flew to her village and sat down before one ofher brothers. He untied the leaf and read the contents of the letter andtold them to his other brothers. All the three then started for the wood,asking their mother to give them something to eat on the way. She had notenough rice for the three, so she made a big ball of clay and stuck itover with what rice she had, so as to make it look like a ball of rice.This she gave to the brothers to eat on their way, and started them off tothe woods.They had not proceeded long before they caught sight of a donkey. Theyoungest, who was of a playful disposition, wished to take the donkey withhim. The two elder brothers objected to this for a time, but in the endthey allowed him to have his own way. Further on they saw an ant, whichthe middle brother took with him. Near the ant there was a big palmyratree lying on the ground, which the eldest took with him to keep off thetiger.The sun was now high in the horizon and the three brothers became veryhungry. So they sat down near a tank and opened the bundle containing theball of rice. To their utter disappointment they found it to be all clay,but being extremely hungry they drank all the water in the pond andcontinued their journey. On leaving the tank they found a big iron tubbelonging to the washerman of the adjacent village. This they took alsowith them in addition to the donkey, the ant, and the palmyra tree.Following the road described by their sister in her letter sent by thecrow, they walked on and on until they reached the tiger's house.The sister, overjoyed to see her brothers again, ran out at once towelcome them, "My dearest brothers, I am so glad to see that you have comehere to relieve me after all, but the time for the tiger's coming home isapproaching, so hide yourselves in the loft, and wait until he is gone."So saying, she helped her brothers to ascend into the loft.By this time the tiger returned, and perceived the presence of humanbeings by the peculiar smell. He asked his wife whether anyone had come totheir house. She said, "No." But when the brothers, who with theirtrophies of the way   the donkey, the ant, and so on   were sitting uponthe loft, saw the tiger dallying with their sister, they were greatlyfrightened. so much so that the youngest, through fear, began to quake,and they all fell on the floor."What is all this?" said the terrified tiger to his wife."Nothing," said she, "but your brothers in law. They came here threehours ago, and as soon as you have finished your meals they want to seeyou.""How can my brothers in law be such cowards?" thought the tiger tohimself. He then asked them to speak to him, whereon the youngest brotherput the ant which he had in his hand into the ear of the donkey, and assoon as the latter was bitten, it began to bawl out most horribly."How is it that your brothers have such a hoarse voice?" said the tigerto his wife.He next asked them to show him their legs. Taking courage at thestupidity of the tiger on the two former occasions, the eldest brother nowstretched out the palmyra tree."By my father, I have never seen such a leg," said the tiger, and askedhis brothers in law to show their bellies. The second brother now showedthe tub, at which the tiger shuddered, and saying, "such a harsh voice, sostout a leg, and such a belly, truly I have never heard of such persons asthese!" He ran away.It was already dark, and the brothers, wishing to take advantage of thetiger's terror, prepared to return home with their sister at once. Theyate up what little food she had, and ordered her to start. Fortunately forher, her tiger child was asleep. So she tore it into two pieces andsuspended them over the hearth, and, thus getting rid of the child, sheran off with her brothers towards home.Before leaving she bolted the front door from inside, and went out atthe back of the house. As soon as the pieces of the cub, which were hungup over the hearth, began to roast, they dripped, which made the fire hissand sputter. and when the tiger returned at about midnight, he found thedoor shut and heard the hissing of the fire, which he mistook for thenoise of cooking muffins."I see," said he to himself, "how very cunning you are. you have boltedthe door and are cooking muffins for your brothers. Let us see if we can'tget your muffins."So saying, he went around to the back door and entered his house, andwas greatly perplexed to find his cub torn in two and being roasted, hishouse deserted by his Brahman wife, and his property plundered. for hiswife, before leaving, had taken with her as much of the tiger's propertyas she could conveniently carry.The tiger now discovered all the treachery of his wife, and his heartgrieved for the loss of his son, that was now no more. He determined to berevenged on his wife, and to bring her back into the wood, and there tearher into many pieces in place of only two. But how to bring her back? Heassumed his original shape of a young bridegroom, making, of course, dueallowance for the number of years that had passed since his marriage, andnext morning went to his father in law's house. His brothers in law andhis wife saw from a distance the deceitful form he had assumed, anddevised means to kill him. The younger ones too ran here and there tobring provisions to feed him sumptuously, and the tiger was highly pleasedat the hospitable way in which he was received.There was a ruined well at the back of the house, and the eldest of thebrothers placed some thin sticks across its mouth, over which he spread afine mat. Now it is usual to ask guests to have an oil bath before dinner,and so his three brothers in law requested the tiger to take his seat onthe fine mat for his bath. As soon as he sat on it, the thin sticks beingunable to bear his weight, gave way, and down fell the cunning tiger witha heavy crash! The well was at once filled in with stones and otherrubbish, and thus the tiger was effectually prevented from doing any moremischief.But the Brahman girl, in memory of her having married a tiger, raised apillar over the well and planted a tulasi shrub on the top of it.Morning and evening, for the rest of her life, she used to smear thepillar with sacred cow dung, and water the tulasi shrub.This story is told to explain the Tamil proverb, "Be quiet, or I shallshow you my original shape."