Know then, O my lord, that whilome my sire was King of this city,and his name was Mahmud, entitled Lord of the Black Islands, andowner of what are now these four mountains. He ruled three scoreand ten years, after which he went to the mercy of the Lord and Ireigned as Sultan in his stead. I took to wife my cousin, thedaughter of my paternal uncle, and she loved me with suchabounding love that whenever I was absent she ate not and shedrank not until she saw me again. She cohabited with me for fiveyears till a certain day when she went forth to the Hammam bath.and I bade the cook hasten to get ready all requisites for oursupper. And I entered this palace and lay down on the bed where Iwas wont to sleep and bade two damsels to fan my face, onesitting by my head and the other at my feet. But I was troubledand made restless by my wife's absence and could not sleep. foralthough my eyes were closed my mind and thoughts were wideawake. Presently I heard the slave girl at my head say to her atmy feet, "O Mas'udah, how miserable is our master and how wastedin his youth and oh! the pity of his being so be trayed by ourmistress, the accursed whore!'' The other replied, "Yesindeed: Allah curse all faithless women and adulterous. but thelike of our master, with his fair gifts, deserveth somethingbetter than this harlot who lieth abroad every night." Then quothshe who sat by my head, "Is our lord dumb or fit only forbubbling that he questioneth her not!" and quoth the other, "Fieon thee! cloth our lord know her ways or cloth she allow him hischoice? Nay, more, cloth she not drug every night the cup shegiveth him to drink before sleep time, and put Bhang intoit? So he sleepeth and wotteth not whither she goeth, nor whatshe doeth. but we know that after giving him the drugged wine,she donneth her richest raiment and perfumeth herself and thenshe fareth out from him to be away till break of day. then shecometh to him, and burneth a pastile under his nose and heawaketh from his deathlike sleep." When I heard the slave girl'swords, the light became black before my sight and I thought nightwould never fall. Presently the daughter of my uncle came fromthe baths. and they set the table for us and we ate and sattogether a fair half hour quaffing our wine as was ever our wont.Then she called for the particular wine I used to drink beforesleeping and reached me the cup. but, seeming to drink itaccording to my wont, I poured the contents into my bosom. and,lying down, let her hear that I was asleep. Then, behold, shecried, "Sleep out the night, and never wake again: by Allah, Iloathe thee and I loathe thy whole body, and my soul turneth indisgust from cohabiting with thee. and I see not the moment whenAllah shall snatch away thy life!" Then she rose and donned herfairest dress and perfumed her person and slung my sword over hershoulder. and, opening the gates of the palace, went her ill way.I rose and followed her as she left the palace and she threadedthe streets until she came to the city gate, where she spokewords I understood not, and the padlocks dropped of themselves asif broken and the gate leaves opened. She went forth (and I afterher without her noticing aught) till she came at last to theoutlying mounds and a reed fence built about a roundroofed hut of mud bricks. As she entered the door, I climbed uponthe roof which commanded a view of the interior, and lo! my faircousin had gone in to a hideous negro slave with his upper liplike the cover of a pot, and his lower like an open pot. lipswhich might sweep up sand from the gravel floor of the cot. Hewas to boot a leper and a paralytic, lying upon a strew of sugarcane trash and wrapped in an old blanket and the foulest rags andtatters. She kissed the earth before him, and he raised his headso as to see her and said, "Woe to thee! what call hadst thou tostay away all this time? Here have been with me sundry of theblack brethren, who drank their wine and each had his young lady,and I was not content to drink because of thine absence." Thenshe, "O my lord, my heart's love and coolth of my eyesknowest thou not that I am married to my cousin whose very look Iloathe, and hate myself when in his company? And did not I fearfor thy sake, I would not let a single sun arise before makinghis city a ruined heap wherein raven should croak and howlethoot, and jackal and wolf harbour and loot. nay I had removed itsvery stones to the back side of Mount Kaf." Rejoined theslave, Thou liest, damn thee! Now I swear an oath by the velourand honour of blackamoor men (and deem not our manliness to be .the poor manliness of white men), from today forth if thou stayaway till this hour, I will not keep company with thee nor will Iglue my body with thy body and strum and belly bump Dost playfast and loose with us, thou cracked pot, that we may satisfy thydirty lusts? stinkard! bitch! vilest of the vile whites!" When Iheard his words, and saw with my own eyes what passed betweenthese two wretches, the world waxed dark be fore my face and mysoul knew not in what place it was. But , my wife humbly stood upweeping before and wheedling the slave, and saying, O my beloved,and very fruit of my heart, there is none left to cheer me butthy dear self. and, if thou cast me off who shall take me in, Omy beloved, O light of my eyes?" And she ceased not weeping andabasing herself to him until he deigned be reconciled with her.Then was she right glad and stood up and doffed her clothes, evento her petticoat trousers, and said, 0 my master what hast thouhere for thy handmaiden to eat? Uncover the basin," he grumbled,"and thou shalt find t the bottom the broiled bones of some ratswe dined on, pick at them, and then go to that slop pot wherethou shalt find some leavings of beer which thou mayestdrink." So she ate and drank and washed her hands, and went andlay down by the side of the slave, upon the cane trash and,stripping herself stark naked, she crept in with him under hisfoul coverlet and his rags and tatters. When I saw my wife, mycousin, the daughter of my uncle, do this deed I cleanlost my wits, and climbing down from the roof, I entered and tookthe sword which she had with her and drew it, determined to cutdown the twain. I first struck at the slave's neck and thoughtthat the death decree had fallen on him:"And Shahrazad perceivedthe dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.When it was the Eighth Night,She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that theyoung ensorcelled Prince said to the King, "When I smote theslave with intent to strike off his head, I thought that I hadslain him. for he groaned a loud hissing groan, but I had cutonly the skin and flesh of the gullet and the two arteries! Itawoke the daughter of my uncle, so I sheathed the sword and faredforth for the city. and, entering the palace, lay upon my bed andslept till morning when my wife aroused me and I saw that she hadcut off her hair and had donned mourning garments. Quoth she: Oson of my uncle, blame me not for what I do. it hath just reachedme that my mother is dead, and my father hath been killed in holywar, and of my brothers one hath lost his life by a snake stingand the other by falling down some precipice. and I can andshould do naught save weep and lament. When I heard her words Irefrained from all reproach and said only: Do as thou list. Icertainly will not thwart thee. She continued sorrowing, weepingand wailing one whole year from the beginning of its circle tothe end, and when it was finished she said to me. I wish tobuild me in thy palace a tomb with a cupola, which I will setapart for my mourning and will name the House ofLamentations. Quoth I again: Do as thou list! Then shebuilded for herself a cenotaph wherein to mourn, and set on itscentre a dome under which showed a tomb like a Santon'ssepulchre. Thither she carried the slave and lodged him. but hewas exceeding weak by reason of his wound, and unable to do herlove service. he could only drink wine and from the day of hishurt he spake not a word, yet he lived on because his appointedhour was not come. Every day, morning and evening, mywife went to him and wept and wailed over him and gave him wineand strong soups, and left not off doing after this manner asecond year. and I bore with her patiently and paid no heed toher. One day, however, I went in to her unawares. and I found herweeping and beating her face and crying: Why art thou absentfrom my sight, O my heart's delight? Speak to me, O my life. talkwith me, O my love? Then she recited these verses: For your love my patience fails and albeit you forget I maynot, nor to other love my heart can make reply:Bear my body, bear my soul wheresoever you may fare Andwhere you pitch the camp let my body buried lie:Cry my name above my grave, and an answer shall return Themoaning of my bones responsive to your cry.Then she recited, weeping bitterly the while: The day of my delight is the day when draw you near And theday of mine affright is the day you turn away:Though I tremble through the night in my bitter dread of deathWhen I hold you in my arms I am free from all affrayOnce more she began reciting: Though a morn I may awake with all happiness in handThough the world all be mine and like Kisra kings Ireign.To me they had the worth of the winglet of the gnat When I failto see thy form, when I look for thee in vainWhen she had ended for a time her words and her weeping I said toher O my cousin, let this thy mourning suffice, for in pouringforth tears there is little profit! Thwart me not, answered she,in aught I do, or I will lay violent hands on myself! So I heldmy peace and left her to go her own way. and she ceased not tocry and keen and indulge her affliction for yet another year. Atthe end of the third year I waxed aweary of this lonesomemourning, and one day I happened to enter the cenotaph when vexedand angry with some matter which had thwarted me, and suddenly Iheard her say: O my lord, I never hear thee vouch safe a singleword to me! Why cost thou not answer me, O my master? and shebegan reciting: O thou tomb! O, thou tomb! be his beauty set in shade? Hastthou darkened that countenance all sheeny as the noon?O thou tomb! neither earth nor yet heaven art to me Then howcometh it in thee are conjoined my sun and moon?When I heard such verses as these rage was heaped upon my rage Icried out: Well away! how long is this sorrow to last? and Ibegan repeating: O thou tomb! O thou tomb! be his horrors set in blight? Hastthou dark ened his countenance that sickeneth the soul?O thou tomb! neither cess pool nor pipkin art to me Then howcometh it in thee are conjoined soil and coal?When she heard my words she sprang to her feet crying. Fie uponthee, thou cur! all this is of thy doings. thou hast wounded myheart s darling and thereby worked me sore woe and thou hastwasted his youth so that these three years he hath lain abed moredead than alive! In my wrath I cried: O thou foulest of harlotsand filthiest of whores ever futtered by negro slaves who arehired to have at thee! Yes indeed it was I who did thisgood deed. and snatching up my sword I drew it and made at her tocut her down. But she laughed my words and mine intent to scorncrying: To heel, hound that thou art! Alas for the pastwhich shall no more come to pass nor shall any one avail the deadto raise. Allah hath indeed now given into my hand him who did tome this thing, a deed that hath burned my heart with a fire whichdied not and a flame which might not be quenched! Then she stoodup. and, pronouncing some words to me unintelligible, she said: By virtue of my egromancy become thou half stone and half man.whereupon I became what thou seest, unable to rise or to sit, andneither dead nor alive. Moreover she ensorcelled the city withall its streets and garths, and she turned by her gramarye thefour islands into four mountains around the tarn whereof thouquestionest me. and the citizens, who were of four differentfaiths, Moslem, Nazarene, Jew and Magian, she transformed by herenchantments into fishes. the Moslems are the white, the Magiansred, the Christians blue and the Jews yellow. And everyday she tortureth me and scourgeth me with an hundred stripes,each of which draweth floods of blood and cutteth the skin of myshoulders to strips. and lastly she clotheth my upper half with ahair cloth and then throweth over them these robes." Hereupon theyoung man again shed tears and began reciting: In patience, O my God, I endure my lot and fate. I will bear atwill of Thee whatsoever be my state:They oppress me. they torture me. they make my life a woe Yethaply Heaven's happiness shall compensate my strait:Yea, straitened is my life by the bane and hate o' foes ButMustafa and Murtaza shall ope me Heaven's gate.After this the Sultan turned towards the young Prince and said,"O youth, thou hast removed one grief only to add another grief.but now, O my friend, where is she. and where is the mausoleumwherein lieth the wounded slave?" "The slave lieth under yondome," quoth the young man, "and she sitteth in the chamberfronting yonder door. And every day at sunrise she cometh forth,and first strippeth me, and whippeth me with an hundred strokesof the leathern scourge, and I weep and shriek. but there is nopower of motion in my lower limbs to keep her off me. Afterending her tormenting me she visiteth the slave, bringing himwine and boiled meats. And to morrow at an early hour she will behere." Quoth the King, "By Allah, O youth, I will as suredly dothee a good deed which the world shall not willingly let die, andan act of derring do which shall be chronicled long after I amdead and gone by." Then the King sat him by the side of the youngPrince and talked till nightfall, when he lay down and slept.but, as soon as the false dawn showed, he arose anddoffing his outer garments bared his blade and hastenedto the place wherein lay the slave. Then was he ware of lightedcandles and lamps, and the perfume of incenses and unguents, anddirected by these, he made for the slave and struck him onestroke killing him on the spot: after which he lifted him on hisback and threw him into a well that was in the palace. Presentryhe returned and, donning the slave's gear, lay down at lengthwithin the mausoleum with the drawn sword laid close to and alonghis side. After an hour or so the accursed witch came. and, firstgoing to her husband, she stripped off his clothes and, taking awhip, flogged him cruelly while he cried out, "Ah! enough for methe case I am in! take pity on me, O my cousin!' But she replied,"Didst thou take pity on me and spare the life of my true love onwhom I coated?" Then she drew the cilice over his raw andbleeding skin and threw the robe upon all and went down to theslave with a goblet of wine and a bowl of meat broth in herhands. She entered under the dome weeping and wailing,"Well away!" and crying, "O my lord! speak a word to me! O mymaster! talk awhile with me!" and began to recite thesecouplets. How long this harshness, this unlove, shall bide? Suffice theenot tear floods thou hast espied?Thou cost prolong our parting purposely And if wouldst pleasemy foe, thou'rt satisfied!Then she wept again and said, "O my lord! speak to me, talk withme!" The King lowered his voice and, twisting his tongue, spokeafter the fashion of the blackamoors and said "'lack! 'lack!there be no Ma'esty and there be no Might save in Allauh, theGloriose, the Great!" Now when she heard these words she shoutedfor joy, and fell to the ground fainting. and when her sensesreturned she asked, "O my lord, can it be true that thou hastpower of speech?" and the King making his voice small and faintanswered, "O my cuss! cost thou deserve that I talk to thee andspeak with thee?" "Why and wherefore?" rejoined she. and hereplied "The why is that all the livelong day thou tormentest thyhubby. and he keeps calling on 'eaven for aid until sleep isstrange to me even from evenin' till mawnin', and he prays anddamns, cussing us two, me and thee, causing me disquiet and muchbother: were this not so, I should long ago have got my health.and it is this which prevents my answering thee." Quoth she,"With thy leave I will release him from what spell is on him."andquoth the King, "Release him and let's have some rest!" Shecried, "To hear is to obey." and, going from the cenotaph to thepalace, she took a metal bowl and filled it with water and spakeover it certain words which made the contents bubble and boil asa cauldron seetheth over the fire. With this she sprinkled herhusband saying, "By virtue of the dread words I have spoken, ifthou becamest thus by my spells, come forth out of that form intoshine own former form." And lo and behold! the young man shookand trembled. then he rose to his feet and, rejoicing at hisdeliverance, cried aloud, "I testify that there is no god but theGod, and in very truth Mohammed is His Apostle, whom Allah blessand keep!" Then she said to him, "Go forth and return not hither,for if thou do I will surely slay thee." screaming these words inhis face. So he went from between her hands. and she returned tothe dome and, going down to the sepulchre, she said, "O my lord,come forth to me that I may look upon thee and thy goodliness!"The King replied in faint low words, "What thing hastthou done? Thou hast rid me of the branch but not of the root."She asked, "O my darling! O my negro ring! what is the root?" Andhe answered, "Fie on thee, O my cuss! The people of this city andof the four islands every night when it's half passed lift theirheads from the tank in which thou hast turned them to fishes andcry to Heaven and call down its anger on me and thee. and this isthe reason why my body's baulked from health. Go at once and setthem free then come to me and take my hand, and raise me up, fora little strength is already back in me." When she heard theKing's words (and she still supposed him to be the slave) shecried joyously, O my master, on my head and on my eyes be thycommend, Bismillah!'' So she sprang to her feet and, fullof joy and gladness, ran down to the tarn and took a little ofits water n the palm of her hand And Shahrazad perceived thedawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.When it Was the Ninth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when theyoung woman, the sorceress, took in hand some of the tarn waterand spake over it words not to be understood, the fishes liftedtheir heads and stood up on the instant like men, the spell onthe people of the city having been removed. What was the lakeagain became a crowded capital. the bazars were thronged withfolk who bought and sold. each citizen was occupied with his owncalling and the four hills became islands as they were whilome.Then the young woman, that wicked sorceress, returned to the Kingand (still thinking he was the negro) said to him, O my love!stretch forth thy honoured hand that I may assist thee to rise.""Nearer to me," quoth the King in a faint and feigned tone. Shecame close as to embrace him when he took up the sword lying hidby his side and smote her across the breast, so that the pointshowed gleaming behind her back. Then he smote her a second timeand cut her in twain and cast her to the ground in two halves.After which he fared forth and found the young man, now freedfrom the spell, awaiting him and gave him joy of his happyrelease while the Prince kissed his hand with abundant thanks.Quoth the King, "Wilt thou abide in this city or go with me to mycapital?" Quoth the youth, "O King of the age, wottest thou notwhat journey is between thee and thy city?" "Two days and ahalf," answered he, whereupon said the other, "An thou besleeping, O King, awake! Between thee and thy city is a year'smarch for a well girt walker, and thou haddest not come hither intwo days and a half save that the city was under enchantment. AndI, O King, will never part from thee. no, not even for thetwinkling of an eye." The King rejoiced at his words and said,"Thanks be to Allah who hath bestowed thee upon me! From thishour thou art my son and my only son, for that in all my life Ihave never been blessed with issue." Thereupon they embraced andjoyed with exceeding great joy. and, reaching the palace, thePrince who had been spell bound informed his lords and hisgrandees that he was about to visit the Holy Places as a pilgrim,and bade them get ready all things necessary for the occasion.The preparations lasted ten days, after which he set out with theSultan, whose heart burned in yearning for his city whence he hadbeen absent a whole twelvemonth. They journeyed with an escort ofMamelukes carrying all manners of precious gifts andrarities, nor stinted they wayfaring day and night for a fullyear until they approached the Sultan's capital, and sent onmessengers to announce their coming. Then the Wazir and the wholearmy came out to meet him in joy and gladness, for they had givenup all hope of ever seeing their King. and the troops kissed theground before him and wished him joy of his safety. He enteredand took seat upon his throne and the Minister came before himand, when acquainted with all that had be fallen the youngPrince, he congratulated him on his narrow escape. When order wasrestored throughout the land the King gave largesse to many ofhis people, and said to the Wazir, "Hither the Fisherman whobrought us the fishes!" So he sent for the man who had been thefirst cause of the city and the citizens being delivered fromenchantment and, when he came in to the presence, the Sultanbestowed upon him a dress of honour, and questioned him of hiscondition and whether he had children. The Fisherman gave him toknow that he had two daughters and a son, so the King sent forthem and, taking one daughter to wife, gave the other to theyoung Prince and made the son his head treasurer. Furthermore heinvested his Wazir with the Sultanate of the City in the BlackIslands whilome belonging to the young Prince, and dispatchedwith him the escort of fifty armed slaves together with dressesof honour for all the Emirs and Grandees. The Wazir kissed handsand fared forth on his way. while the Sultan and the Prince abodeat home in all the solace and the delight of life. and theFisherman became the richest man of his age, and his daughterswived with Kings, until death came to them. And yet, O King!this is not more wondrous than the story of