One would have thought that something important was going on inthe duck pond, but it was nothing after all. All the ducks lyingquietly on the water or standing on their heads in it for theycould do that at once swarm to the sides. the traces of their feetwere seen in the wet earth, and their cackling was heard far and wide.The water, which a few moments before had been as clear and smoothas a mirror, became very troubled. Before, every tree, everyneighbouring bush, the old farmhouse with the holes in the roof andthe swallows' nest, and especially the great rose bush full offlowers, had been reflected in it. The rose bush covered the walland hung out over the water, in which everything was seen as if in apicture, except that it all stood on its head. but when the waterwas troubled everything got mixed up, and the picture was gone. Twofeathers which the fluttering ducks had lost floated up and down.suddenly they took a rush as if the wind were coming, but as it didnot come they had to lie still, and the water once more became quietand smooth. The roses were again reflected. they were verybeautiful, but they did not know it, for no one had told them. The sunshone among the delicate leaves. everything breathed forth theloveliest fragrance, and all felt as we do when we are filled with joyat the thought of our happiness."How beautiful existence is!" said each rose. "The only thing thatI wish for is to be able to kiss the sun, because it is so warm andbright. I should also like to kiss those roses down in the water,which are so much like us, and the pretty little birds down in thenest. There are some up above too. they put out their heads and pipesoftly. they have no feathers like their father and mother. We havegood neighbours, both below and above. How beautiful existence is!"The young ones above and below those below were really onlyshadows in the water were sparrows. their parents were sparrowstoo, and had taken possession of the empty swallows' nest of lastyear, and now lived in it as if it were their own property."Are those the duck's children swimming here?" asked the youngsparrows when they saw the feathers on the water."If you must ask questions, ask sensible ones," said their mother."Don't you see that they are feathers, such as I wear and you willwear too? But ours are finer. Still, I should like to have them upin the nest, for they keep one warm. I am very curious to know whatthe ducks were so startled about. not about us, certainly, althoughI did say 'peep' to you pretty loudly. The thick headed roses ought toknow why, but they know nothing at all. they only look at themselvesand smell. I am heartily tired of such neighbours.""Listen to the dear little birds up there," said the roses."they begin to want to sing too, but are not able to manage it yet.But it will soon come. What a pleasure that must be! It is fine tohave such cheerful neighbours."Suddenly two horses came galloping up to be watered. A peasant boyrode on one, and he had taken off all his clothes except his largebroad black hat. The boy whistled like a bird, and rode into thepond where it was deepest, and as he passed the rose bush he plucked arose and stuck it in his hat. Now he looked dressed, and rode on.The other roses looked after their sister, and asked each other,"Where can she be going to?" But none of them knew."I should like to go out into the world for once," said one."but here at home among our green leaves it is beautiful too. Thewhole day long the sun shines bright and warm, and in the night thesky shines more beautifully still. we can see that through all thelittle holes in it."They meant the stars, but they knew no better."We make it lively about the house," said the sparrow mother. "andpeople say that a swallows' nest brings luck. so they are glad ofus. But such neighbours as ours! A rose bush on the wall like thatcauses damp. I daresay it will be taken away. then we shall,perhaps, have some corn growing here. The roses are good for nothingbut to be looked at and to be smelt, or at most to be stuck in ahat. Every year, as I have been told by my mother, they fall off.The farmer's wife preserves them and strews salt among them. then theyget a French name which I neither can pronounce nor care to, and areput into the fire to make a nice smell. You see, that's their life.they exist only for the eye and the nose. Now you know."In the evening, when the gnats were playing about in the warmair and in the red clouds, the nightingale came and sang to theroses that the beautiful was like sunshine to the world, and thatthe beautiful lived for ever. The roses thought that the nightingalewas singing about itself, and that one might easily have believed.they had no idea that the song was about them. But they were verypleased with it, and wondered whether all the little sparrows couldbecome nightingales."I understand the song of that bird very well," said the youngsparrows. "There was only one word that was not clear to me. What does'the beautiful' mean?""Nothing at all," answered their mother. "that's only somethingexternal. Up at the Hall, where the pigeons have their own house,and corn and peas are strewn before them every day I have dinedwith them myself, and that you shall do in time, too. for tell me whatcompany you keep and I'll tell you who you are up at the Hall theyhave two birds with green necks and a crest upon their heads. they canspread out their tails like a great wheel, and these are so brightwith various colours that it makes one's eyes ache. These birds arecalled peacocks, and that is 'the beautiful.' If they were onlyplucked a little they would look no better than the rest of us. Iwould have plucked them already if they had not been so big.""I'll pluck them," piped the young sparrow, who had no feathersyet.In the farmhouse lived a young married couple. they loved eachother dearly, were industrious and active, and everything in theirhome looked very nice. On Sundays the young wife came down early,plucked a handful of the most beautiful roses, and put them into aglass of water, which she placed upon the cupboard."Now I see that it is Sunday," said the husband, kissing hislittle wife. They sat down, read their hymn book, and held eachother by the hand, while the sun shone down upon the fresh roses andupon them."This sight is really too tedious," said the sparrow mother, whocould see into the room from her nest. and she flew away.The same thing happened on the following Sunday, for everySunday fresh roses were put into the glass. but the rose bushbloomed as beautifully as ever. The young sparrows now had feathers,and wanted very much to fly with their mother. but she would not allowit, and so they had to stay at home. In one of her flights, however itmay have happened, she was caught, before she was aware of it, in ahorse hair net which some boys had attached to a tree. Thehorse hair was drawn tightly round her leg as tightly as if thelatter were to be cut off. she was in great pain and terror. Theboys came running up and seized her, and in no gentle way either."It's only a sparrow," they said. they did not, however, let hergo, but took her home with them, and every time she cried they hit heron the beak.In the farmhouse was an old man who understood making soap intocakes and balls, both for shaving and washing. He was a merry old man,always wandering about. On seeing the sparrow which the boys hadbrought, and which they said they did not want, he asked, "Shall wemake it look very pretty?"At these words an icy shudder ran through the sparrow mother.Out of his box, in which were the most beautiful colours, theold man took a quantity of shining leaf gold, while the boys had to goand fetch some white of egg, with which the sparrow was to besmeared all over. the gold was stuck on to this, and thesparrow mother was now gilded all over. But she, trembling in everylimb, did not think of the adornment. Then the soap man tore off asmall piece from the red lining of his old jacket, and cutting it soas to make it look like a cock's comb, he stuck it to the bird's head."Now you will see the gold jacket fly," said the old man,letting the sparrow go, which flew away in deadly fear, with the sunshining upon her. How she glittered! All the sparrows, and even acrow and an old boy he was too were startled at the sight. but stillthey flew after her to learn what kind of strange bird she was.Driven by fear and horror, she flew homeward. she was almostsinking fainting to the earth, while the flock of pursuing birdsincreased, some even attempting to peck at her."Look at her! Look at her!" they all cried."Look at her! Look at her" cried her little ones, as sheapproached the nest. "That is certainly a young peacock, for itglitters in all colours. it makes one's eyes ache, as mother toldus. Peep! that's 'the beautiful'." And then they pecked at the birdwith their little beaks so that it was impossible for her to getinto the nest. she was so exhausted that she couldn't even say "Peep!"much less "I am your own mother!" The other birds, too, now fellupon the sparrow and plucked off feather after feather until shefell bleeding into the rose bush."Poor creature!" said all the roses. "only be still, and we willhide you. Lean your little head against us."The sparrow spread out her wings once more, then drew them closelyto her, and lay dead near the neighbouring family, the beautiful freshroses."Peep!" sounded from the nest. "Where can mother be so long?It's more than I can understand. It cannot be a trick of hers, andmean that we are now to take care of ourselves. She has left us thehouse as an inheritance. but to which of us is it to belong when wehave families of our own?""Yes, it won't do for you to stay with me when I increase myhousehold with a wife and children,"' said the smallest."I daresay I shall have more wives and children than you," saidthe second."But I am the eldest!" exclaimed the third. Then they all gotexcited. they hit out with their wings, pecked with their beaks, andflop! one after another was thrown out of the nest. There they laywith their anger, holding their heads on one side and blinking the eyethat was turned upwards. That was their way of looking foolish.They could fly a little. by practice they learned to improve,and at last they agreed upon a sign by which to recognise each otherif they should meet in the world later on. It was to be one "Peep!"and three scratches on the ground with the left foot.The young one who had remained behind in the nest made himselfas broad as he could, for he was the proprietor. But this greatnessdid not last long. In the night the red flames burst through thewindow and seized the roof, the dry straw blazed up high, and thewhole house, together with the young sparrow, was burned. The twoothers, who wanted to marry, thus saved their lives by a stroke ofluck.When the sun rose again and everything looked as refreshed as ifit had had a quiet sleep, there only remained of the farmhouse a fewblack charred beams leaning against the chimney, which was now its ownmaster. Thick smoke still rose from the ruins, but the rose bush stoodyonder, fresh, blooming, and untouched, every flower and every twigbeing reflected in the clear water."How beautifully the roses bloom before the ruined house,"exclaimed a passer by. "A pleasanter picture cannot be imagined. Imust have that." And the man took out of his portfolio a little bookwith white leaves: he was a painter, and with his pencil he drew thesmoking house, the charred beams and the overhanging chimney, whichbent more and more. in the foreground he put the large, bloomingrose bush, which presented a charming view. For its sake alone thewhole picture had been drawn.Later in the day the two sparrows who had been born there came by."Where is the house?" they asked. "Where is the nest? Peep! All isburned and our strong brother too. That's what he has now forkeeping the nest. The roses got off very well. there they stillstand with their red cheeks. They certainly do not mourn at theirneighbours' misfortunes. I don't want to talk to them, and it looksmiserable here that's my opinion." And away they went.On a beautiful sunny autumn day one could almost have believed itwas still the middle of summer there hopped about in the dryclean swept courtyard before the principal entrance of the Hall anumber of black, white, and gaily coloured pigeons, all shining in thesunlight. The pigeon mothers said to their young ones: "Stand ingroups, stand in groups! for that looks much better.""What kind of creatures are those little grey ones that runabout behind us?" asked an old pigeon, with red and green in her eyes."Little grey ones! Little grey ones!" she cried."They are sparrows, and good creatures. We have always had thereputation of being pious, so we will allow them to pick up the cornwith us. they don't interrupt our talk, and they scrape so prettilywhen they bow."Indeed they were continually making three foot scrapings withthe left foot and also said "Peep!" By this means they recognised eachother, for they were the sparrows from the nest on the burned house."Here is excellent fare!" said the sparrow. The pigeons struttedround one another, puffed out their chests mightily, and had their ownprivate views and opinions."Do you see that pouter pigeon?" said one to the other. "Do yousee how she swallows the peas? She eats too many, and the best onestoo. Curoo! Curoo! How she lifts her crest, the ugly, spitefulcreature! Curoo! Curoo!" And the eyes of all sparkled with malice."Stand in groups! Stand in groups! Little grey ones, little grey ones!Curoo, curoo, curoo!"So their chatter ran on, and so it will run on for thousands ofyears. The sparrows ate lustily. they listened attentively, and evenstood in the ranks with the others, but it did not suit them at all.They were full, and so they left the pigeons, exchanging opinionsabout them, slipped in under the garden palings, and when they foundthe door leading into the house open, one of them, who was more thanfull, and therefore felt brave, hopped on to the threshold. "Peep!"said he. "I may venture that.""Peep!" said the other. "so may I, and something more too!" and hehopped into the room. No one was there. the third sparrow, seeingthis, flew still farther into the room, exclaiming, "All or nothing!It is a curious man's nest all the same. and what have they put uphere? What is it?"Close to the sparrows the roses were blooming. they were reflectedin the water, and the charred beams leaned against the overhangingchimney. "Do tell me what this is. How comes this in a room at theHall?" And all three sparrows wanted to fly over the roses and thechimney, but flew against a flat wall. It was all a picture, a greatsplendid picture, which the artist had painted from a sketch."Peep!" said the sparrows, "it's nothing. It only looks likesomething. Peep! that is 'the beautiful.' Do you understand it? Idon't."And they flew away, for some people came into the room.Days and years went by. The pigeons had often cooed, not to saygrowled the spiteful creatures. the sparrows had been frozen inwinter and had lived merrily in summer: they were all betrothed, ormarried, or whatever you like to call it. They had little ones, and ofcourse each one thought his own the handsomest and cleverest. one flewthis way, another that, and when they met they recognised each otherby their "Peep!" and the three scrapes with the left foot. Theeldest had remained an old maid and had no nest nor young ones. It washer pet idea to see a great city, so she flew to Copenhagen.There was a large house painted in many gay colours standing closeto the castle and the canal, upon which latter were to be seen manyships laden with apples and pottery. The windows of the house werebroader at the bottom than at the top, and when the sparrows lookedthrough them, every room appeared to them like a tulip with thebrightest colours and shades. But in the middle of the tulip stoodwhite men, made of marble. a few were of plaster. still, looked atwith sparrows' eyes, that comes to the same thing. Up on the roofstood a metal chariot drawn by metal horses, and the goddess ofVictory, also of metal, was driving. It was Thorwaldsen's Museum."How it shines! how it shines!" said the maiden sparrow. "Isuppose that is 'the beautiful.' Peep! But here it is larger than apeacock." She still remembered what in her childhood's days her motherhad looked upon as the greatest among the beautiful. She flew downinto the courtyard: there everything was extremely fine. Palms andbranches were painted on the walls, and in the middle of the courtstood a great blooming rose tree spreading out its fresh boughs,covered with roses, over a grave. Thither flew the maiden sparrow, forshe saw several of her own kind there. A "peep" and threefoot scrapings in this way she had often greeted throughout the year,and no one here had responded, for those who are once parted do notmeet every day. and so this greeting had become a habit with her.But to day two old sparrows and a young one answered with a "peep" andthe thrice repeated scrape with the left foot."Ah! Good day! good day!" They were two old ones from the nest anda little one of the family. "Do we meet here? It's a grand place,but there's not much to eat. This is 'the beautiful.' Peep!"Many people came out of the side rooms where the beautifulmarble statues stood and approached the grave where lay the greatmaster who had created these works of art. All stood with enrapturedfaces round Thorwaldsen's grave, and a few picked up the fallenrose leaves and preserved them. They had come from afar: one frommighty England, others from Germany and France. The fairest of theladies plucked one of the roses and hid it in her bosom. Then thesparrows thought that the roses reigned here, and that the house hadbeen built for their sake. That appeared to them to be really toomuch, but since all the people showed their love for the roses, theydid not wish to be behindhand. "Peep!" they said sweeping the groundwith their tails, and blinking with one eye at the roses, they had notlooked at them long before they were convinced that they were theirold neighbours. And so they really were. The painter who had drawn therose bush near the ruined house, had afterwards obtained permission todig it up, and had given it to the architect, for finer roses hadnever been seen. The architect had planted it upon Thorwaldsen'sgrave, where it bloomed as an emblem of 'the beautiful' and yieldedfragrant red rose leaves to be carried as mementoes to distant lands."Have you obtained an appointment here in the city?" asked thesparrows. The roses nodded. they recognized their grey neighboursand were pleased to see them again. "How glorious it is to live and tobloom, to see old friends again, and happy faces every day. It is asif every day were a festival." "Peep!" said the sparrows. "Yes, theyare really our old neighbours. we remember their origin near the pond.Peep! how they have got on. Yes, some succeed while they are asleep.Ah! there's a faded leaf. I can see that quite plainly." And theypecked at it till it fell off. But the tree stood there fresher andgreener than ever. the roses bloomed in the sunshine onThorwaldsen's grave and became associated with his immortal name.