Sicilianische Malirchen. L. Gonzenbach.Long ago there lived two brothers, both of them very handsome, and bothso very poor that they seldom had anything to eat but the fish whichthey caught. One day they had been out in their boat since sunrisewithout a single bite, and were just thinking of putting up their linesand going home to bed when they felt a little feeble tug, and, drawingin hastily, they found a tiny fish at the end of the hook.'What a wretched little creature!' cried one brother. 'However, it isbetter than nothing, and I will bake him with bread crumbs and have himfor supper.''Oh, do not kill me yet!' begged the fish. 'I will bring you goodluck indeed I will!''You silly thing!' said the young man. 'I've caught you, and I shall eatyou.'But his brother was sorry for the fish, and put in a word for him.'Let the poor little fellow live. He would hardly make one bite, and,after all, how do we know we are not throwing away our luck! Put himback into the sea. It will be much better.''If you will let me live,' said the fish, 'you will find on the sandsto morrow morning two beautiful horses splendidly saddled and bridled,and on them you can go through the world as knights seeking adventures.''Oh dear, what nonsense!' exclaimed the elder. 'and, besides, what proofhave we that you are speaking the truth?'But again the younger brother interposed: 'Oh, do let him live! You knowif he is lying to us we can always catch him again. It is quite worthwhile trying.'At last the young man gave in, and threw the fish back into the sea. andboth brothers went supperless to bed, and wondered what fortune the nextday would bring.At the first streaks of dawn they were both up, and in a very fewminutes were running down to the shore. And there, just as the fish hadsaid, stood two magnificent horses, saddled and bridled, and on theirbacks lay suits of armour and under dresses, two swords, and two pursesof gold.'There!' said the younger brother. 'Are you not thankful you did noteat that fish? He has brought us good luck, and there is no knowing howgreat we may become! Now, we will each seek our own adventures. If youwill take one road I will go the other.''Very well,' replied the elder. 'but how shall we let each other know ifwe are both living?''Do you see this fig tree?' said the younger. 'Well, whenever we wantnews of each other we have only to come here and make a slit with ourswords in the back. If milk flows, it is a sign that we are well andprosperous. but if, instead of milk, there is blood, then we are eitherdead or in great danger.'Then the two brothers put on their armour, buckled their swords, andpocketed their purees. and, after taking a tender farewell of eachother, they mounted their horses and went their various ways.The elder brother rode straight on till he reached the borders of astrange kingdom. He crossed the frontier, and soon found himself onthe banks of a river. and before him, in the middle of the stream, abeautiful girl sat chained to a rock and weeping bitterly. For in thisriver dwelt a serpent with seven heads, who threatened to lay waste thewhole land by breathing fire and flame from his nostrils unless the kingsent him every morning a man for his breakfast. This had gone on so longthat now there were no men left, and he had been obliged to send hisown daughter instead, and the poor girl was waiting till the monster gothungry and felt inclined to eat her.When the young man saw the maiden weeping bitterly he said to her, 'Whatis the matter, my poor girl?''Oh!' she answered, 'I am chained here till a horrible serpent withseven heads comes to eat me. Oh, sir, do not linger here, or he will eatyou too.''I shall stay,' replied the young man, 'for I mean to set you free.''That is impossible. You do not know what a fearful monster the serpentis. you can do nothing against him.''That is my affair, beautiful captive,' answered he. 'only tell me,which way will the serpent come?''Well, if you are resolved to free me, listen to my advice. Stand alittle on one side, and then, when the serpent rises to the surface, Iwill say to him, "O serpent, to day you can eat two people. But you hadbetter begin first with the young man, for I am chained and cannot runaway." When he hears this most likely he will attack you.'So the young man stood carefully on one side, and by and bye he hearda great rushing in the water. and a horrible monster came up to thesurface and looked out for the rock where the king's daughter waschained, for it was getting late and he was hungry.But she cried out, 'O serpent, to day you can eat two people. And youhad better begin with the young man, for I am chained and cannot runaway.'Then the serpent made a rush at the youth with wide open jaws to swallowhim at one gulp, but the young man leaped aside and drew his sword,and fought till he had cut off all the seven heads. And when the greatserpent lay dead at his feet he loosed the bonds of the king's daughter,and she flung herself into his arms and said, 'You have saved me fromthat monster, and now you shall be my husband, for my father has madea proclamation that whoever could slay the serpent should have hisdaughter to wife.'But he answered, 'I cannot become your husband yet, for I have still farto travel. But wait for me seven years and seven months. Then, if I donot return, you are free to marry whom you will. And in case you shouldhave forgotten, I will take these seven tongues with me so that when Ibring them forth you may know that I am really he who slew the serpent.'So saying he cut out the seven tongues, and the princess gave him athick cloth to wrap them in. and he mounted his horse and rode away.Not long after he had gone there arrived at the river a slave who hadbeen sent by the king to learn the fate of his beloved daughter. Andwhen the slave saw the princess standing free and safe before him, withthe body of the monster lying at her feet, a wicked plan came into hishead, and he said, 'Unless you promise to tell your father it was I whoslew the serpent, I will kill you and bury you in this place, and no onewill ever know what befell.'What could the poor girl do? This time there was no knight to come toher aid. So she promised to do as the slave wished, and he took up theseven heads and brought the princess to her father.Oh, how enchanted the king was to see her again, and the whole townshared his joy!And the slave was called upon to tell how he had slain the monster, andwhen he had ended the king declared that he should have the princess towife.But she flung herself at her father's feet, and prayed him to delay.'You have passed your royal word, and cannot go back from it Yet grantme this grace, and let seven years and seven months go by before youwed me. When they are over, then I will marry the slave.' And the kinglistened to her, and seven years and seven months she looked for herbridegroom, and wept for him night and day.All this time the young man was riding through the world, and when theseven years and seven months were over he came back to the town wherethe princess lived only a few days before the wedding. And he stoodbefore the king, and said to him: 'Give me your daughter, O king, forI slew the seven headed serpent. And as a sign that my words are true,look on these seven tongues, which I cut from his seven heads, and onthis embroidered cloth, which was given me by your daughter.'Then the princess lifted up her voice and said, 'Yes, dear father, hehas spoken the truth, and it is he who is my real bridegroom. Yet pardonthe slave, for he was sorely tempted.'But the king answered, 'Such treachery can no man pardon. Quick, awaywith him, and off with his head!'So the false slave was put to death, that none might follow in hisfootsteps, and the wedding feast was held, and the hearts of allrejoiced that the true bridegroom had come at last.These two lived happy and contentedly for a long while, when oneevening, as the young man was looking from the window, he saw on amountain that lay out beyond the town a great bright light.'What can it be?' he said to his wife.'Ah! do not look at it,' she answered, 'for it comes from the house ofa wicked witch whom no man can manage to kill.' But the princess hadbetter have kept silence, for her words made her husband's heart burnwithin him, and he longed to try his strength against the witch'scunning. And all day long the feeling grew stronger, till the nextmorning he mounted his horse, and in spite of his wife's tears, he rodeoff to the mountain.The distance was greater than he thought, and it was dark before hereached the foot of the mountain. indeed, he could not have found theroad at all had it not been for the bright light, which shone like themoon on his path. At length he came to the door of a fine castle, whichhad a blaze streaming from every window. He mounted a flight of stepsand entered a hall where a hideous old woman was sitting on a goldenchair.She scowled at the young man and said, 'With a single one of the hairsof my head I can turn you into stone.''Oh, what nonsense!' cried he. 'Be quiet, old woman. What could youdo with one hair?' But the witch pulled out a hair and laid it on hisshoulder, and his limbs grew cold and heavy, and he could not stir.Now at this very moment the younger brother was thinking of him, andwondering how he had got on during all the years since they had parted.'I will go to the fig tree,' he said to himself, 'to see whether he isalive or dead.' So he rode through the forest till he came where thefig tree stood, and cut a slit in the bark, and waited. In a moment alittle gurgling noise was heard, and out came a stream of blood, runningfast. 'Ah, woe is me!' he cried bitterly. 'My brother is dead or dying!Shall I ever reach him in time to save his life?' Then, leaping on hishorse, he shouted, 'Now, my steed, fly like the wind!' and they roderight through the world, till one day they came to the town where theyoung man and his wife lived. Here the princess had been sitting everyday since the morning that her husband had left her, weeping bittertears, and listening for his footsteps. And when she saw his brotherride under the balcony she mistook him for her own husband, for theywere so alike that no man might tell the difference, and her heartbounded, and, leaning down, she called to him, 'At last! at last! howlong have I waited for thee!' When the younger brother heard these wordshe said to himself, 'So it was here that my brother lived, and thisbeautiful woman is my sister in law,' but he kept silence, and let herbelieve he was indeed her husband. Full of joy, the princess led him tothe old king, who welcomed him as his own son, and ordered a feast tobe made for him. And the princess was beside herself with gladness, butwhen she would have put her arms round him and kissed him he held uphis hand to stop her, saying, 'Touch me not,' at which she marvelledgreatly.In this manner several days went by. And one evening, as the young manleaned from the balcony, he saw a bright light shining on the mountain.'What can that be?' he said to the princess.'Oh, come away,' she cried. 'has not that light already proved yourbane? Do you wish to fight a second time with that old witch?'He marked her words, though she knew it not, and they taught him wherehis brother was, and what had befallen him. So before sunrise he stoleout early, saddled his horse, and rode off to the mountain. But the waywas further than he thought, and on the road he met a little old man whoasked him whither he was going.Then the young man told him his story, and added. 'Somehow or other Imust free my brother, who has fallen into the power of an old witch.''I will tell you what you must do,' said the old man. 'The witch's powerlies in her hair. so when you see her spring on her and seize her bythe hair, and then she cannot harm you. Be very careful never to let herhair go, bid her lead you to your brother, and force her to bring himback to life. For she has an ointment that will heal all wounds, andeven wake the dead. And when your brother stands safe and well beforeyou, then cut off her head, for she is a wicked woman.'The young man was grateful for these words, and promised to obey them.Then he rode on, and soon reached the castle. He walked boldly up thesteps and entered the hall, where the hideous old witch came to meethim. She grinned horribly at him, and cried out, 'With one hair of myhead I can change you into stone.''Can you, indeed?' said the young man, seizing her by the hair. 'You oldwretch! tell me what you have done with my brother, or I will cut yourhead off this very instant.' Now the witch's strength was all gone fromher, and she had to obey.'I will take you to your brother,' she said, hoping to get the better ofhim by cunning, 'but leave me alone. You hold me so tight that I cannotwalk.''You must manage somehow,' he answered, and held her tighter than ever.She led him into a large hall filled with stone statues, which once hadbeen men, and, pointing out one, she said, 'There is your brother.'The young man looked at them all and shook his head. 'My brother is nothere. Take me to him, or it will be the worse for you.' But she triedto put him off with other statues, though it was no good, and it wasnot until they had reached the last hall of all that he saw his brotherlying on the ground.'That is my brother,' said he. 'Now give me the ointment that willrestore him to life.'Very unwillingly the old witch opened a cupboard close by filled withbottles and jars, and took down one and held it out to the young man.But he was on the watch for trickery, and examined it carefully, and sawthat it had no power to heal. This happened many times, till at lengthshe found it was no use, and gave him the one he wanted. And when hehad it safe he made her stoop down and smear it over his brother's face,taking care all the while never to loose her hair, and when the deadman opened his eyes the youth drew his sword and cut off her head witha single blow. Then the elder brother got up and stretched himself, andsaid, 'Oh, how long I have slept! And where am I?''The old witch had enchanted you, but now she is dead and you are free.We will wake up the other knights that she laid under her spells, andthen we will go.'This they did, and, after sharing amongst them the jewels and gold theyfound in the castle, each man went his way. The two brothers remainedtogether, the elder tightly grasping the ointment which had brought himback to life.They had much to tell each other as they rode along, and at last theyounger man exclaimed, 'O fool, to leave such a beautiful wife to go andfight a witch! She took me for her husband, and I did not say her nay.'When the elder brother heard this a great rage filled his heart, and,without saying one word, he drew his sword and slew his brother, and hisbody rolled in the dust. Then he rode on till he reached his home,where his wife was still sitting, weeping bitterly. When she saw himshe sprang up with a cry, and threw herself into his arms. 'Oh, how longhave I waited for thee! Never, never must you leave me any more!'When the old king heard the news he welcomed him as a son, and madeready a feast, and all the court sat down. And in the evening, when theyoung man was alone with his wife, she said to him, 'Why would you notlet me touch you when you came back, but always thrust me away when Itried to put my arms round you or kiss you?'Then the young man understood how true his brother had been to him, andhe sat down and wept and wrung his hands because of the wicked murderthat he had done. Suddenly he sprang to his feet, for he remembered theointment which lay hidden in his garments, and he rushed to the placewhere his brother still lay. He fell on his knees beside the body, and,taking out the salve, he rubbed it over the neck where the wound wasgaping wide, and the skin healed and the sinews grew strong, and thedead man sat up and looked round him. And the two brothers embraced eachother, and the elder asked forgiveness for his wicked blow. and theywent back to the palace together, and were never parted any more.