Right in the middle of Japan, high up among the mountains, an old manlived in his little house. He was very proud of it, and never tired ofadmiring the whiteness of his straw mats, and the pretty papered walls,which in warm weather always slid back, so that the smell of the treesand flowers might come in.One day he was standing looking at the mountain opposite, when he hearda kind of rumbling noise in the room behind him. He turned round, and inthe corner he beheld a rusty old iron kettle, which could not have seenthe light of day for many years. How the kettle got there the old mandid not know, but he took it up and looked it over carefully, and whenhe found that it was quite whole he cleaned the dust off it and carriedit into his kitchen.'That was a piece of luck,' he said, smiling to himself. 'a good kettlecosts money, and it is as well to have a second one at hand in case ofneed. mine is getting worn out, and the water is already beginning tocome through its bottom.'Then he took the other kettle off the fire, filled the new one withwater, and put it in its place.No sooner was the water in the kettle getting warm than a strange thinghappened, and the man, who was standing by, thought he must be dreaming.First the handle of the kettle gradually changed its shape and became ahead, and the spout grew into a tail, while out of the body sprang fourpaws, and in a few minutes the man found himself watching, not a kettle,but a tanuki! The creature jumped off the fire, and bounded about theroom like a kitten, running up the walls and over the ceiling, till theold man was in an agony lest his pretty room should be spoilt. He criedto a neighbour for help, and between them they managed to catch thetanuki, and shut him up safely in a wooden chest. Then, quite exhausted,they sat down on the mats, and consulted together what they should dowith this troublesome beast. At length they decided to sell him, andbade a child who was passing send them a certain tradesman called Jimmu.When Jimmu arrived, the old man told him that he had something which hewished to get rid of, and lifted the lid of the wooden chest, wherehe had shut up the tanuki. But, to his surprise, no tanuki was there,nothing but the kettle he had found in the corner. It was certainly veryodd, but the man remembered what had taken place on the fire, and didnot want to keep the kettle any more, so after a little bargaining aboutthe price, Jimmu went away carrying the kettle with him.Now Jimmu had not gone very far before he felt that the kettle wasgetting heavier and heavier, and by the time he reached home he was sotired that he was thankful to put it down in the corner of his room, andthen forgot all about it. In the middle of the night, however, he wasawakened by a loud noise in the corner where the kettle stood, andraised himself up in bed to see what it was. But nothing was thereexcept the kettle, which seemed quiet enough. He thought that he musthave been dreaming, and fell asleep again, only to be roused a secondtime by the same disturbance. He jumped up and went to the corner, andby the light of the lamp that he always kept burning he saw that thekettle had become a tanuki, which was running round after his tail.After he grew weary of that, he ran on the balcony, where he turnedseveral somersaults, from pure gladness of heart. The tradesman wasmuch troubled as to what to do with the animal, and it was only towardsmorning that he managed to get any sleep. but when he opened his eyesagain there was no tanuki, only the old kettle he had left there thenight before.As soon as he had tidied his house, Jimmu set off to tell his story toa friend next door. The man listened quietly, and did not appear sosurprised as Jimmu expected, for he recollected having heard, in hisyouth, something about a wonder working kettle. 'Go and travel withit, and show it off,' said he, 'and you will become a rich man. but becareful first to ask the tanuki's leave, and also to perform some magicceremonies to prevent him from running away at the sight of the people.'Jimmu thanked his friend for his counsel, which he followed exactly. Thetanuki's consent was obtained, a booth was built, and a notice was hungup outside it inviting the people to come and witness the most wonderfultransformation that ever was seen.They came in crowds, and the kettle was passed from hand to hand, andthey were allowed to examine it all over, and even to look inside. ThenJimmu took it back, and setting it on the platform, commanded it tobecome a tanuki. In an instant the handle began to change into a head,and the spout into a tail, while the four paws appeared at the sides.'Dance,' said Jimmu, and the tanuki did his steps, and moved first onone side and then on the other, till the people could not stand stillany longer, and began to dance too. Gracefully he led the fan dance, andglided without a pause into the shadow dance and the umbrella dance, andit seemed as if he might go on dancing for ever. And so very likelyhe would, if Jimmu had not declared he had danced enough, and that thebooth must now be closed.Day after day the booth was so full it was hardly possible to enter it,and what the neighbour foretold had come to pass, and Jimmu was a richman. Yet he did not feel happy. He was an honest man, and he thoughtthat he owed some of his wealth to the man from whom he had boughtthe kettle. So, one morning, he put a hundred gold pieces into it, andhanging the kettle once more on his arm, he returned to the seller ofit. 'I have no right to keep it any longer,' he added when he had endedhis tale, 'so I have brought it back to you, and inside you will find ahundred gold pieces as the price of its hire.'The man thanked Jimmu, and said that few people would have been ashonest as he. And the kettle brought them both luck, and everything wentwell with them till they died, which they did when they were very old,respected by everyone.