There was once a peasant family. and, among other domestic animals, theyhad a house dog named Sultan. When the dog had grown old, the peasantdrove him away, thinking that he could no longer properly attend to hisduty.Quite downcast, with drooping head, the dog left the village, andcomplained to himself, "This is the way I am rewarded for my faithful andhard service. after having spent my years of youth and strength in toil, Iam driven away in my weak old age, and no rest is allowed me."Sadly he went on, and wandered about for many days without finding atolerable shelter. At last, lean and weak after his long wandering, hecame to a forest. There came a wolf out of the forest, ran up to the poordog, and cried, "Stop, old fellow, now thou art in my power, so getready!"When Sultan heard the wolf speak thus, he was in terror, and said, "Dearfriend, do but give a good look at me first, and then you will certainlylose all appetite for me. in me you will find the worst meat that you evertasted, for I am nothing but skin and bone. However, I can give you somegood advice."The wolf said, "I want no advice from you, wretched creature! Without yourtelling me, I know how it would run, namely, that I should spare yourlife. No! 'tis the old story, short and sweet, down my throat you go!"Then the dog replied, "I have no thought of the kind, for I would not livelonger. Use your jaws so long as you enjoy yourself, but I only advise youfor the best. Would it not be the best plan to feed me first, and after Ihave been fattened you might then gobble me up? The food would not be lostin this way, because you would find it all at one meal in me. There wouldbe a fine dish of meat. What thinkest thou, brother wolf?"The wolf said, "Agreed, provided the feeding does not last long. follow meinto my hut."The dog did this, and both now went deeper into the forest. Arrived at thehut, Sultan crept in, but the wolf went on to get some game for the poorweak dog. When he came back, he threw his bag before Sultan, and Sultanmade a good supper.The next day the wolf came and said to the dog, "Yesterday you ate. todayI will eat."The dog replied, "But what have you taken into your head, dear wolf? Why,as to yesterday's food, I scarce know that I had it."The wolf was very cross. but he had to put up with it, and go into theforest a second time to hunt down some fresh game for the dog. In this waySultan contrived to put off the wolf so long, that at last he felt strongenough to take up the cudgels with him. The wolf kept on hunting, andbrought his prey to the dog. but himself ate little or nothing that Sultanmight get enough. And so it came to pass that the dog gained in flesh andstrength, while the wolf equally fell off.On the sixth day the wolf came up to the dog and said, "Now, I think youare ripe!"Sultan replied, "O yes. in fact I feel myself so well that I will fight itout with you if you won't let me go."Said the wolf, "You jest! Consider I have fed you for six whole days, yes,and eaten nothing myself, and now you want me to go away empty? No, no,that will never do!"Then Sultan replied, "In one respect you are right, but how do you thinkyou can be justified in eating me up?""'Tis the right of the strong over the weak," said the wolf."Good!" said the dog, you have given judgment against yourself." Withthese words he made a bold dash, and before the wolf knew where he was, helay on the ground overcome by Sultan. "Because you spared my life, I willnot now destroy you, but give you a chance for your own. So choose twocomrades. I will do the same, and tomorrow meet me with them in theforest, and we will decide our dispute."They separated to seek their seconds. The wolf went wrathfully deeper intothe forest. the dog hastened to the nearest village. After long talk withthe growling bear and the sly fox, the wolf found two comrades. Sultan ranfirst to the parsonage, and got the great grey cat to go along with him.Thence he turned his steps to the court of the local magistrate, and foundin the brave cock his second comrade. It was hardly daybreak when the dogwas with his companions on the way. He all but surprised his enemies in adeep sleep.The wolf opened his eyes first, awoke his companions, and said to thebear, "You can climb trees, can't you? Be so good as to get up this tallfir tree, and look out and see whether our enemies are coming on."Up went the bear, and as soon as he had got to the top, he called down,"Run, our enemies are here, close at hand, and what mighty enemies! Onerides proudly along, and carries many sharp sabers with him that glistenbrightly in the morning sun. behind him there soberly advances another,dragging a long iron bar after him. O dear! O dear!"At these words the fox was so frightened that he thought it most advisableto take to his heels. The bear hastily scrambled down out of the tree, andcrept into a dense thicket, so that only just the end of his tail peepedout. The foes came on. The wolf, seeing himself deserted by hiscompanions, was about also to take to his heels, when Sultan confrontedhim. One spring, and the dog held the wolf by the throat, and put an endto him. Meanwhile the cat observed in the bushes the point of the bear'stail as it moved, and snapped at it, thinking to catch a mouse. In terrorthe bear came out of his hiding place, and fled in all haste up a tree,thinking that there he would be safe from foes. But he was deceived, forthere was the cock before him. When the cock saw the bear on the tree, hesprang to the next bough, and to the next, and so on. The bear was besidehimself, and in terror he fell down and lay dead as a door nail. So endedthe battle.The news of Sultan's heroic deeds and those of his comrades spread far andwide, even to that village where Sultan had formerly served. Theconsequence was that the peasant family took back again their faithfulhouse dog, and lovingly cared for him.