Long, long ago Japan was governed by Hohodemi, the fourth Mikoto (orAugustness) in descent from the illustrious Amaterasu, the Sun Goddess.He was not only as handsome as his ancestress was beautiful, but he wasalso very strong and brave, and was famous for being the greatesthunter in the land. Because of his matchless skill as a hunter, he wascalled "Yama sachi hiko" or "The Happy Hunter of the Mountains."His elder brother was a very skillful fisher, and as he far surpassedall rivals in fishing, he was named "Umi sachi hiko" or the "SkillfulFisher of the Sea." The brothers thus led happy lives, thoroughlyenjoying their respective occupations, and the days passed quickly andpleasantly while each pursued his own way, the one hunting and theother fishing.One day the Happy Hunter came to his brother, the Skillful Fisher, andsaid:"Well, my brother, I see you go to the sea every day with your fishingrod in your hand, and when you return you come laden with fish. And asfor me, it is my pleasure to take my bow and arrow and to hunt the wildanimals up the mountains and down in the valleys. For a long time wehave each followed our favorite occupation, so that now we must both betired, you of your fishing and I of my hunting. Would it not be wisefor us to make a change? Will you try hunting in the mountains and Iwill go and fish in the sea?"The Skillful Fisher listened in silence to his brother, and for amoment was thoughtful, but at last he answered:"O yes, why not? Your idea is not a bad one at all. Give me your bowand arrow and I will set out at once for the mountains and hunt forgame."So the matter was settled by this talk, and the two brothers eachstarted out to try the other's occupation, little dreaming of all thatwould happen. It was very unwise of them, for the Happy Hunter knewnothing of fishing, and the Skillful Fisher, who was bad tempered, knewas much about hunting.The Happy Hunter took his brother's much prized fishing hook and rodand went down to the seashore and sat down on the rocks. He baited hishook and then threw it into the sea clumsily. He sat and gazed at thelittle float bobbing up and down in the water, and longed for a goodfish to come and be caught. Every time the buoy moved a little hepulled up his rod, but there was never a fish at the end of it, onlythe hook and the bait. If he had known how to fish properly, he wouldhave been able to catch plenty of fish, but although he was thegreatest hunter in the land he could not help being the most bunglingfisher.The whole day passed in this way, while he sat on the rocks holding thefishing rod and waiting in vain for his luck to turn. At last the daybegan to darken, and the evening came. still he had caught not a singlefish. Drawing up his line for the last time before going home, he foundthat he had lost his hook without even knowing when he had dropped it.He now began to feel extremely anxious, for he knew that his brotherwould be angry at his having lost his hook, for, it being his only one,he valued it above all other things. The Happy Hunter now set to workto look among the rocks and on the sand for the lost hook, and while hewas searching to and fro, his brother, the Skillful Fisher, arrived onthe scene. He had failed to find any game while hunting that day, andwas not only in a bad temper, but looked fearfully cross. When he sawthe Happy Hunter searching about on the shore he knew that somethingmust have gone wrong, so he said at once:"What are you doing, my brother?"The Happy Hunter went forward timidly, for he feared his brother'sanger, and said:"Oh, my brother, I have indeed done badly.""What is the matter? what have you done?" asked the elder brotherimpatiently."I have lost your precious fishing hook "While he was still speaking his brother stopped him, and cried outfiercely:"Lost my hook! It is just what I expected. For this reason, when youfirst proposed your plan of changing over our occupations I was reallyagainst it, but you seemed to wish it so much that I gave in andallowed you to do as you wished. The mistake of our trying unfamiliartasks is soon seen! And you have done badly. I will not return you yourbow and arrow till you have found my hook. Look to it that you find itand return it to me quickly."The Happy Hunter felt that he was to blame for all that had come topass, and bore his brother's scornful scolding with humility andpatience. He hunted everywhere for the hook most diligently, but it wasnowhere to be found. He was at last obliged to give up all hope offinding it. He then went home, and in desperation broke his belovedsword into pieces and made five hundred hooks out of it.He took these to his angry brother and offered them to him, asking hisforgiveness, and begging him to accept them in the place of the one hehad lost for him. It was useless. his brother would not listen to him,much less grant his request.The Happy Hunter then made another five hundred hooks, and again tookthem to his brother, beseeching him to pardon him."Though you make a million hooks," said the Skillful Fisher, shakinghis head, "they are of no use to me. I cannot forgive you unless youbring me back my own hook."Nothing would appease the anger of the Skillful Fisher, for he had abad disposition, and had always hated his brother because of hisvirtues, and now with the excuse of the lost fishing hook he planned tokill him and to usurp his place as ruler of Japan. The Happy Hunterknew all this full well, but he could say nothing, for being theyounger he owed his elder brother obedience. so he returned to theseashore and once more began to look for the missing hook. He was muchcast down, for he had lost all hope of ever finding his brother's hooknow. While he stood on the beach, lost in perplexity and wondering whathe had best do next, an old man suddenly appeared carrying a stick inhis hand. The Happy Hunter afterwards remembered that he did not seefrom whence the old man came, neither did he know how he was there hehappened to look up and saw the old man coming towards him."You are Hohodemi, the Augustness, sometimes called the Happy Hunter,are you not?" asked the old man. "What are you doing alone in such aplace?""Yes, I am he," answered the unhappy young man. "Unfortunately, whilefishing I lost my brother's precious fishing hook. I have hunted thisshore all over, but alas! I cannot find it, and I am very troubled, formy brother won't forgive me till I restore it to him. But who are you?""My name is Shiwozuchino Okina, and I live near by on this shore. I amsorry to hear what misfortune has befallen you. You must indeed beanxious. But if I tell you what I think, the hook is nowhere here itis either at the bottom of the sea or in the body of some fish who hasswallowed it, and for this reason, though you spend your whole life inlooking for it here, you will never find it.""Then what can I do?" asked the distressed man."You had better go down to Ryn Gu and tell Ryn Jin, the Dragon King ofthe Sea, what your trouble is and ask him to find the hook for you. Ithink that would be the best way.""Your idea is a splendid one," said the Happy Hunter, "but I fear Icannot get to the Sea King's realm, for I have always heard that it issituated at the bottom of the sea.""Oh, there will be no difficulty about your getting there," said theold man. "I can soon make something for you to ride on through the sea.""Thank you," said the Happy Hunter, "I shall be very grateful to you ifyou will be so kind."The old man at once set to work, and soon made a basket and offered itto the Happy Hunter. He received it with joy, and taking it to thewater, mounted it, and prepared to start. He bade good by to the kindold man who had helped him so much, and told him that he wouldcertainly reward him as soon as he found his hook and could return toJapan without fear of his brother's anger. The old man pointed out thedirection he must take, and told him how to reach the realm of Ryn Gu,and watched him ride out to sea on the basket, which resembled a smallboat.The Happy Hunter made all the haste he could, riding on the basketwhich had been given him by his friend. His queer boat seemed to gothrough the water of its own accord, and the distance was much shorterthan he had expected, for in a few hours he caught sight of the gateand the roof of the Sea King's Palace. And what a large place it was,with its numberless sloping roofs and gables, its huge gateways, andits gray stone walls! He soon landed, and leaving his basket on thebeach, he walked up to the large gateway. The pillars of the gate weremade of beautiful red coral, and the gate itself was adorned withglittering gems of all kinds. Large katsura trees overshadowed it. Ourhero had often heard of the wonders of the Sea King's Palace beneaththe sea, but all the stories he had ever heard fell short of thereality which he now saw for the first time.The Happy Hunter would have liked to enter the gate there and then, buthe saw that it was fast closed, and also that there was no one aboutwhom he could ask to open it for him, so he stopped to think what heshould do. In the shade of the trees before the gate he noticed a wellfull of fresh spring water. Surely some one would come out to drawwater from the well some time, he thought. Then he climbed into thetree overhanging the well, and seated himself to rest on one of thebranches, and waited for what might happen. Ere long he saw the hugegate swing open, and two beautiful women came out. Now the Mikoto(Augustness) had always heard that Ryn Gu was the realm of the DragonKing under the Sea, and had naturally supposed that the place wasinhabited by dragons and similar terrible creatures, so that when hesaw these two lovely princesses, whose beauty would be rare even in theworld from which he had just come, he was exceedingly surprised, andwondered what it could mean.He said not a word, however, but silently gazed at them through thefoliage of the trees, waiting to see what they would do. He saw that intheir hands they carried golden buckets. Slowly and gracefully in theirtrailing garments they approached the well, standing in the shade ofthe katsura trees, and were about to draw water, all unknowing of thestranger who was watching them, for the Happy Hunter was quite hiddenamong the branches of the tree where he had posted himself.As the two ladies leaned over the side of the well to let down theirgolden buckets, which they did every day in the year, they sawreflected in the deep still water the face of a handsome youth gazingat them from amidst the branches of the tree in whose shade they stood.Never before had they seen the face of mortal man. they werefrightened, and drew back quickly with their golden buckets in theirhands. Their curiosity, however, soon gave them courage, and theyglanced timidly upwards to see the cause of the unusual reflection, andthen they beheld the Happy Hunter sitting in the tree looking down atthem with surprise and admiration. They gazed at him face to face, buttheir tongues were still with wonder and could not find a word to sayto him.When the Mikoto saw that he was discovered, he sprang down lightly fromthe tree and said:"I am a traveler, and as I was very thirsty I came to the well in thehopes of quenching my thirst, but I could find no bucket with which todraw the water. So I climbed into the tree, much vexed, and waited forsome one to come. Just at that moment, while I was thirstily andimpatiently waiting, you noble ladies appeared, as if in answer to mygreat need. Therefore I pray you of your mercy give me some water todrink, for I am a thirsty traveler in a strange land."His dignity and graciousness overruled their timidity, and bowing insilence they both once more approached the well, and letting down theirgolden buckets drew up some water and poured it into a jeweled cup andoffered it to the stranger.He received it from them with both hands, raising it to the height ofhis forehead in token of high respect and pleasure, and then drank thewater quickly, for his thirst was great. When he had finished his longdraught he set the cup down on the edge of the well, and drawing hisshort sword he cut off one of the strange curved jewels (magatama), anecklace of which hung round his neck and fell over his breast. Heplaced the jewel in the cup and returned it to them, and said, bowingdeeply:"This is a token of my thanks!"The two ladies took the cup, and looking into it to see what he had putinside for they did not yet know what it was they gave a start ofsurprise, for there lay a beautiful gem at the bottom of the cup."No ordinary mortal would give away a jewel so freely. Will you nothonor us by telling us who you are?" said the elder damsel."Certainly," said the Happy Hunter, "I am Hohodemi, the fourth Mikoto,also called in Japan, the Happy Hunter.""Are you indeed Hohodemi, the grandson of Amaterasu, the Sun Goddess?"asked the damsel who had spoken first. "I am the eldest daughter of RynJin, the King of the Sea, and my name is Princess Tayotama.""And," said the younger maiden, who at last found her tongue, "I am hersister, the Princess Tamayori.""Are you indeed the daughters of Ryn Jin, the King of the Sea? I cannottell you how glad I am to meet you," said the Happy Hunter. And withoutwaiting for them to reply he went on:"The other day I went fishing with my brother's hook and dropped it,how, I am sure I can't tell. As my brother prizes his fishing hookabove all his other possessions, this is the greatest calamity thatcould have befallen me. Unless I find it again I can never hope to winmy brother's forgiveness, for he is very angry at what I have done. Ihave searched for it many, many times, but I cannot find it, thereforeI am much troubled. While I was hunting for the hook, in greatdistress, I met a wise old man, and he told me that the best thing Icould do was to come to Ryn Gu, and to Ryn Jin, the Dragon King of theSea, and ask him to help me. This kind old man also showed me how tocome. Now you know how it is I am here and why. I want to ask Ryn Jin,if he knows where the lost hook is. Will you be so kind as to take meto your father? And do you think he will see me?" asked the HappyHunter anxiously.Princess Tayotama listened to this long story, and then said:"Not only is it easy for you to see my father, but he will be muchpleased to meet you. I am sure he will say that good fortune hasbefallen him, that so great and noble a man as you, the grandson ofAmaterasu, should come down to the bottom of the sea." And then turningto her younger sister, she said:"Do you not think so, Tamayori?""Yes, indeed," answered the Princess Tamayori, in her sweet voice. "Asyou say, we can know no greater honor than to welcome the Mikoto to ourhome.""Then I ask you to be so kind as to lead the way," said the HappyHunter."Condescend to enter, Mikoto (Augustness)," said both the sisters, andbowing low, they led him through the gate.The younger Princess left her sister to take charge of the HappyHunter, and going faster than they, she reached the Sea King's Palacefirst, and running quickly to her father's room, she told him of allthat had happened to them at the gate, and that her sister was even nowbringing the Augustness to him. The Dragon King of the Sea was muchsurprised at the news, for it was but seldom, perhaps only once inseveral hundred years, that the Sea King's Palace was visited bymortals.Ryn Jin at once clapped his hands and summoned all his courtiers andthe servants of the Palace, and the chief fish of the sea together, andsolemnly told them that the grandson of the Sun Goddess, Amaterasu, wascoming to the Palace, and that they must be very ceremonious and politein serving the august visitor. He then ordered them all to the entranceof the Palace to welcome the Happy Hunter.Ryn Jin then dressed himself in his robes of ceremony, and went out towelcome him. In a few moments the Princess Tayotama and the HappyHunter reached the entrance, and the Sea King and his wife bowed to theground and thanked him for the honor he did them in coming to see them.The Sea King then led the Happy Hunter to the guest room, and placinghim in the uppermost seat, he bowed respectfully before him, and said:"I am Ryn Jin, the Dragon King of the Sea, and this is my wife.Condescend to remember us forever!""Are you indeed Ryn Jin, the King of the Sea, of whom I have so oftenheard?" answered the Happy Hunter, saluting his host mostceremoniously. "I must apologize for all the trouble I am giving you bymy unexpected visit." And he bowed again, and thanked the Sea King."You need not thank me," said Ryn Jin. "It is I who must thank you forcoming. Although the Sea Palace is a poor place, as you see, I shall behighly honored if you will make us a long visit."There was much gladness between the Sea King and the Happy Hunter, andthey sat and talked for a long time. At last the Sea King clapped hishands, and then a huge retinue of fishes appeared, all robed inceremonial garments, and bearing in their fins various trays on whichall kinds of sea delicacies were served. A great feast was now spreadbefore the King and his Royal guest. All the fishes in waiting werechosen from amongst the finest fish in the sea, so you can imagine whata wonderful array of sea creatures it was that waited upon the HappyHunter that day. All in the Palace tried to do their best to please himand to show him that he was a much honored guest. During the longrepast, which lasted for hours, Ryn Jin commanded his daughters to playsome music, and the two Princesses came in and performed on the KOTO(the Japanese harp), and sang and danced in turns. The time passed sopleasantly that the Happy Hunter seemed to forget his trouble and whyhe had come at all to the Sea King's Realm, and he gave himself up tothe enjoyment of this wonderful place, the land of fairy fishes! Whohas ever heard of such a marvelous place? But the Mikoto soonremembered what had brought him to Ryn Gu, and said to his host:"Perhaps your daughters have told you, King Ryn Jin, that I have comehere to try and recover my brother's fishing hook, which I lost whilefishing the other day. May I ask you to be so kind as to inquire of allyour subjects if any of them have seen a fishing hook lost in the sea?""Certainly," said the obliging Sea King, "I will immediately summonthem all here and ask them."As soon as he had issued his command, the octopus, the cuttlefish, thebonito, the oxtail fish, the eel, the jelly fish, the shrimp, and theplaice, and many other fishes of all kinds came in and sat down beforeRyn Jin their King, and arranged themselves and their fins in order.Then the Sea King said solemnly:"Our visitor who is sitting before you all is the august grandson ofAmaterasu. His name is Hohodemi, the fourth Augustness, and he is alsocalled the Happy Hunter of the Mountains. While he was fishing theother day upon the shore of Japan, some one robbed him of his brother'sfishing hook. He has come all this way down to the bottom of the sea toour Kingdom because he thought that one of you fishes may have takenthe hook from him in mischievous play. If any of you have done so youmust immediately return it, or if any of you know who the thief is youmust at once tell us his name and where he is now."All the fishes were taken by surprise when they heard these words, andcould say nothing for some time. They sat looking at each other and atthe Dragon King. At last the cuttlefish came forward and said:"I think the TAI (the red bream) must be the thief who has stolen thehook!""Where is your proof?" asked the King."Since yesterday evening the TAI has not been able to eat anything, andhe seems to be suffering from a bad throat! For this reason I think thehook may be in his throat. You had better send for him at once!"All the fish agreed to this, and said:"It is certainly strange that the TAI is the only fish who has notobeyed your summons. Will you send for him and inquire into the matter.Then our innocence will be proved.""Yes," said the Sea King, "it is strange that the TAI has not come, forhe ought to be the first to be here. Send for him at once!"Without waiting for the King's order the cuttlefish had already startedfor the TAI'S dwelling, and he now returned, bringing the TAI with him.He led him before the King.The TAI sat there looking frightened and ill. He certainly was in pain,for his usually red face was pale, and his eyes were nearly closed andlooked but half their usual size."Answer, O TAI!" cried the Sea King, "why did you not come in answer tomy summons today?""I have been ill since yesterday," answered the TAI. "that is why Icould not come.""Don't say another word!" cried out Ryn Jin angrily. "Your illness isthe punishment of the gods for stealing the Mikoto's hook.""It is only too true!" said the TAI. "the hook is still in my throat,and all my efforts to get it out have been useless. I can't eat, and Ican scarcely breathe, and each moment I feel that it will choke me, andsometimes it gives me great pain. I had no intention of stealing theMikoto's hook. I heedlessly snapped at the bait which I saw in thewater, and the hook came off and stuck in my throat. So I hope you willpardon me."The cuttlefish now came forward, and said to the King:"What I said was right. You see the hook still sticks in the TAI'Sthroat. I hope to be able to pull it out in the presence of the Mikoto,and then we can return it to him safely!""O please make haste and pull it out!" cried the TAI, pitifully, for hefelt the pains in his throat coming on again. "I do so want to returnthe hook to the Mikoto.""All right, TAI SAN," said his friend the cuttlefish, and then openingthe TAI'S mouth as wide as he could and putting one of his feelers downthe TAI'S throat, he quickly and easily drew the hook out of thesufferer's large mouth. He then washed it and brought it to the King.Ryn Jin took the hook from his subject, and then respectfully returnedit to the Happy Hunter (the Mikoto or Augustness, the fishes calledhim), who was overjoyed at getting back his hook. He thanked Ryn Jinmany times, his face beaming with gratitude, and said that he owed thehappy ending of his quest to the Sea King's wise authority and kindness.Ryn Jin now desired to punish the TAI, but the Happy Hunter begged himnot to do so. since his lost hook was thus happily recovered he did notwish to make more trouble for the poor TAI. It was indeed the TAI whohad taken the hook, but he had already suffered enough for his fault,if fault it could be called. What had been done was done inheedlessness and not by intention. The Happy Hunter said he blamedhimself. if he had understood how to fish properly he would never havelost his hook, and therefore all this trouble had been caused in thefirst place by his trying to do something which he did not know how todo. So he begged the Sea King to forgive his subject.Who could resist the pleading of so wise and compassionate a judge? RynJin forgave his subject at once at the request of his august guest. TheTAI was so glad that he shook his fins for joy, and he and all theother fish went out from the presence of their King, praising thevirtues of the Happy Hunter.Now that the hook was found the Happy Hunter had nothing to keep him inRyn Gu, and he was anxious to get back to his own kingdom and to makepeace with his angry brother, the Skillful Fisher. but the Sea King,who had learnt to love him and would fain have kept him as a son,begged him not to go so soon, but to make the Sea Palace his home aslong as ever he liked. While the Happy Hunter was still hesitating, thetwo lovely Princesses, Tayotama and Tamayori, came, and with thesweetest of bows and voices joined with their father in pressing him tostay, so that without seeming ungracious he could not say them "Nay,"and was obliged to stay on for some time.Between the Sea Realm and the Earth there was no difference in thenight of time, and the Happy Hunter found that three years wentfleeting quickly by in this delightful land. The years pass swiftlywhen any one is truly happy. But though the wonders of that enchantedland seemed to be new every day, and though the Sea King's kindnessseemed rather to increase than to grow less with time, the Happy Huntergrew more and more homesick as the days passed, and he could notrepress a great anxiety to know what had happened to his home and hiscountry and his brother while he had been away.So at last he went to the Sea King and said:"My stay with you here has been most happy and I am very grateful toyou for all your kindness to me, but I govern Japan, and, delightful asthis place is, I cannot absent myself forever from my country. I mustalso return the fishing hook to my brother and ask his forgiveness forhaving deprived him of it for so long. I am indeed very sorry to partfrom you, but this time it cannot be helped. With your graciouspermission, I will take my leave to day. I hope to make you anothervisit some day. Please give up the idea of my staying longer now."King Ryn Jin was overcome with sorrow at the thought that he must losehis friend who had made a great diversion in the Palace of the Sea, andhis tears fell fast as he answered:"We are indeed very sorry to part with you, Mikoto, for we have enjoyedyour stay with us very much. You have been a noble and honored guestand we have heartily made you welcome. I quite understand that as yougovern Japan you ought to be there and not here, and that it is vainfor us to try and keep you longer with us, much as we would like tohave you stay. I hope you will not forget us. Strange circumstanceshave brought us together and I trust the friendship thus begun betweenthe Land and the Sea will last and grow stronger than it has ever beenbefore."When the Sea King had finished speaking he turned to his two daughtersand bade them bring him the two Tide Jewels of the Sea. The twoPrincesses bowed low, rose and glided out of the hall. In a few minutesthey returned, each one carrying in her hands a flashing gem whichfilled the room with light. As the Happy Hunter looked at them hewondered what they could be. The Sea King took them from his daughtersand said to his guest:"These two valuable talismans we have inherited from our ancestors fromtime immemorial. We now give them to you as a parting gift in token ofour great affection for you. These two gems are called the nanjiu andthe kanjiu."The Happy Hunter bowed low to the ground and said:"I can never thank you enough for all your kindness to me. And now willyou add one more favor to the rest and tell me what these jewels areand what I am to do with them?""The nanjiu," answered the Sea King, "is also called the Jewel of theFlood Tide, and whoever holds it in his possession can command the seato roll in and to flood the land at any time that he wills. The kanjiuis also called the Jewel of the Ebbing Tide, and this gem controls thesea and the waves thereof, and will cause even a tidal wave to recede."Then Ryn Jin showed his friend how to use the talismans one by one andhanded them to him. The Happy Hunter was very glad to have these twowonderful gems, the Jewel of the Flood Tide and the Jewel of the EbbingTide, to take back with him, for he felt that they would preserve himin case of danger from enemies at any time. After thanking his kindhost again and again, he prepared to depart. The Sea King and the twoPrincesses, Tayotama and Tamayori, and all the inmates of the Palace,came out to say "Good by," and before the sound of the last farewellhad died away the Happy Hunter passed out from under the gateway, pastthe well of happy memory standing in the shade of the great KATSURAtrees on his way to the beach.Here he found, instead of the queer basket on which he had come to theRealm of Ryn Gu, a large crocodile waiting for him. Never had he seensuch a huge creature. It measured eight fathoms in length from the tipof its tail to the end of its long mouth. The Sea King had ordered themonster to carry the Happy Hunter back to Japan. Like the wonderfulbasket which Shiwozuchino Okina had made, it could travel faster thanany steamboat, and in this strange way, riding on the back of acrocodile, the Happy Hunter returned to his own land.As soon as the crocodile landed him, the Happy Hunter hastened to tellthe Skillful Fisher of his safe return. He then gave him back thefishing hook which had been found in the mouth of the TAI and which hadbeen the cause of so much trouble between them. He earnestly begged hisbrother's forgiveness, telling him all that had happened to him in theSea King's Palace and what wonderful adventures had led to the findingof the hook.Now the Skillful Fisher had used the lost hook as an excuse for drivinghis brother out of the country. When his brother had left him that daythree years ago, and had not returned, he had been very glad in hisevil heart and had at once usurped his brother's place as ruler of theland, and had become powerful and rich. Now in the midst of enjoyingwhat did not belong to him, and hoping that his brother might neverreturn to claim his rights, quite unexpectedly there stood the HappyHunter before him.The Skillful Fisher feigned forgiveness, for he could make no moreexcuses for sending his brother away again, but in his heart he wasvery angry and hated his brother more and more, till at last he couldno longer bear the sight of him day after day, and planned and watchedfor an opportunity to kill him.One day when the Happy Hunter was walking in the rice fields hisbrother followed him with a dagger. The Happy Hunter knew that hisbrother was following him to kill him, and he felt that now, in thishour of great danger, was the time to use the Jewels of the Flow andEbb of the Tide and prove whether what the Sea King had told him wastrue or not.So he took out the Jewel of the Flood Tide from the bosom of his dressand raised it to his forehead. Instantly over the fields and over thefarms the sea came rolling in wave upon wave till it reached the spotwhere his brother was standing. The Skillful Fisher stood amazed andterrified to see what was happening. In another minute he wasstruggling in the water and calling on his brother to save him fromdrowning.The Happy Hunter had a kind heart and could not bear the sight of hisbrother's distress. He at once put back the Jewel of the Flood Tide andtook out the Jewel of the Ebb Tide. No sooner did he hold it up as highas his forehead than the sea ran back and back, and ere long thetossing rolling floods had vanished, and the farms and fields and dryland appeared as before.The Skillful Fisher was very frightened at the peril of death in whichhe had stood, and was greatly impressed by the wonderful things he hadseen his brother do. He learned now that he was making a fatal mistaketo set himself against his brother, younger than he thought he was, forhe now had become so powerful that the sea would flow in and the tideebb at his word of command. So he humbled himself before the HappyHunter and asked him to forgive him all the wrong he had done him. TheSkillful Fisher promised to restore his brother to his rights and alsoswore that though the Happy Hunter was the younger brother and owed himallegiance by right of birth, that he, the Skillful Fisher, would exalthim as his superior and bow before him as Lord of all Japan.Then the Happy Hunter said that he would forgive his brother if hewould throw into the receding tide all his evil ways. The SkillfulFisher promised and there was peace between the two brothers. From thistime he kept his word and became a good man and a kind brother.The Happy Hunter now ruled his Kingdom without being disturbed byfamily strife, and there was peace in Japan for a long, long time.Above all the treasures in his house he prized the wonderful Jewels ofthe Flow and Ebb of the Tide which had been given him by Ryn Jin, theDragon King of the Sea.This is the congratulatory ending of the Happy Hunter and the SkillfulFisher.