Know O Jinni! that this gazelle is the daughter of my paternaluncle, my own flesh and blood, and I married her when she was ayoung maid, and I lived with her well nigh thirty years, yet wasI not blessed with issue by her. So I took me a concubinewho brought to me the boon of a male child fair as the full moon,with eyes of lovely shine and eyebrows which formed one line, andlimbs of perfect design. Little by little he grew in stature andwaxed tall. and when he was a lad fifteen years old, it becameneedful I should journey to certain cities and I travelled withgreat store of goods. But the daughter of my uncle (this gazelle)had learned gramarye and egromancy and clerkly craft fromher childhood. so she bewitched that son of mine to a calf, andmy handmaid (his mother) to a heifer, and made them over to theherdsman's care. Now when I returned after a long time from myjourney and asked for my son and his mother, she answered me,saying "Thy slave girl is dead, and thy son hath fled and I knownot whither he is sped." So I remained for a whole year withgrieving heart, and streaming eyes until the time came for theGreat Festival of Allah. Then sent I to my herdsman biddinghim choose for me a fat heifer. and he brought me one whichwas the damsel, my handmaid, whom this gazelle had ensorcelled. Itucked up my sleeves and skirt and, taking a knife, proceeded tocut her throat, but she lowed aloud and wept bitter tears.Thereat I marvelled and pity seized me and I held my hand, sayingto the herd, "Bring me other than this." Then cried my cousin,"Slay her, for I have not a fatter nor a fairer!" Once more Iwent forward to sacrifice her, but she again lowed aloud uponwhich in ruth I refrained and commanded the herdsman to slay herand flay her. He killed her and skinned her but found in herneither fat nor flesh, only hide and bone. and I repented whenpenitence availed me naught. I gave her to the herdsman and saidto him, "Fetch me a fat calf." so he brought my son ensorcelled.When the calf saw me, he brake his tether and ran to me, andfawned upon me and wailed and shed tears. so that I took pity onhim and said to the herdsman, "Bring me a heifer and let thiscalf go!" Thereupon my cousin (this gazelle) called aloud at me,saying, "Needs must thou kill this calf. this is a holy day and ablessed, whereon naught is slain save what be perfect pure. andwe have not amongst our calves any fatter or fairer than this!"Quoth I, "Look thou upon the condition of the heifer which Islaughtered at thy bidding and how we turn from her indisappointment and she profited us on no wise. and I repent withan exceeding repentance of having killed her: so this time I willnot obey thy bidding for the sacrifice of this calf." Quoth she,"By Allah the Most Great, the Compassionating, the Compassionate!there is no help for it. thou must kill him on this holy day, andif thou kill him not to me thou art no man and I to thee am nowife." Now when I heard those hard words, not knowing her objectI went up to the calf, knife in hand And Shahrazad perceived thedawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say. Thenquoth her sister to her, "How fair is thy tale, and how grateful,and how sweet and how tasteful!" And Shahrazad answered her,"What is this to that I could tell thee on the coming night, wereI to live and the King would spare me?" Then said the King inhimself, "By Allah, I will not slay her, until I shall have heardthe rest of her tale." So they slept the rest of that night inmutual em brace till day fully brake. Then the King went forth tohis audience hall and the Wazir went up with hisdaughter's shroud under his arm. The King issued his orders, andpromoted this and deposed that, until the end of the day. and hetold the Wazir no whit of what had happened. But the Ministerwondered thereat with exceeding wonder. and when the Court brokeup King Shahryar entered his palace.When it was the Second Night,said Dunyazad to her sister Shahrazad, "O my sister, finish forus that story of the Merchant and the Jinni." and she answered"With joy and goodly gree, if the King permit me." Then quoth theKing, "Tell thy tale." and Shahrazad began in these words: Ithath reached me, O auspicious King and Heaven directed Ruler!that when the merchant purposed the sacrifice of the calf but sawit weeping, his heart relented and he said to the herdsman, "Keepthe calf among my cattle." All this the old Shaykh told the Jinniwho marvelled much at these strange words. Then the owner of thegazelle continued: O Lord of the Kings of the Jann, this muchtook place and my uncle's daughter, this gazelle, looked on andsaw it, and said, "Butcher me this calf, for surely it is a fatone." but I bade the herdsman take it away and he took it andturned his face homewards. On the next day as I was sitting in myown house, lo! the herdsman came and, standing before me said, "Omy master, I will tell thee a thing which shall gladden thy soul,and shall gain me the gift of good tidings." I answered,"Even so." Then said he, "O merchant, I have a daughter, and shelearned magic in her childhood from an old woman who lived withus. Yesterday when thou gavest me the calf, I went into the houseto her, and she looked upon it and veiled her face. then she weptand laughed alternately and at last she said: O my father, hathmine honour become so cheap to thee that thou bringest in to mestrange men? I asked her: Where be these strange men and whywast thou laughing, and crying?. and she answered, Of a truththis calf which is with thee is the son of our master, themerchant. but he is ensorcelled by his stepdame who bewitchedboth him and his mother: such is the cause of my laughing. nowthe reason of his weeping is his mother, for that his father slewher unawares. Then I marvelled at this with exceeding marvel andhardly made sure that day had dawned before I came to tell thee."When I heard, O Jinni, my herdsman's words, I went out with him,and I was drunken without wine, from the excess of joy andgladness which came upon me, until I reached his house. There hisdaughter welcomed me and kissed my hand, and forthwith the calfcame and fawned upon me as before. Quoth I to the herdsman'sdaughter, "Is this true that thou sayest of this calf?" Quothshe, "Yea, O my master, he is thy son, the very core of thyheart." I rejoiced and said to her, "O maiden, if thou wiltrelease him thine shall be whatever cattle and property of mineare under thy father's hand." She smiled and answered, "O mymaster, I have no greed for the goods nor will I take them saveon two conditions. the first that thou marry me to thy son andthe second that I may bewitch her who bewitched him and imprisonher, otherwise I cannot be safe from her malice andmalpractices." Now when I heard, O Jinni, these, the words of theherdsman's daughter, I replied, "Beside what thou askest all thecattle and the house hold stuff in thy father's charge are thineand, as for the daughter of my uncle, her blood is lawful tothee." When I had spoken, she took a cup and filled it withwater: then she recited a spell over it and sprinkled it upon thecalf, saying, "If Almighty Allah created thee a calf, remain soshaped, and change not. but if thou be enchanted, return to thywhilom form, by command of Allah Most Highest!" and lo! hetrembled and became a man. Then I fell on his neck and said,"Allah upon thee, tell me all that the daughter of my uncle didby thee and by thy mother." And when he told me what had come topass between them I said, " O my son, Allah favoured thee withone to restore thee, and thy right hath returned to thee." Then,O Jinni, I married the herdsman's daughter to him, and shetransformed my wife into this gazelle, saying: Her shape is acomely and by no means loathsome. After this she abode with usnight and day, day and night, till the Almighty took her toHimself. When she deceased, my son fared forth to the cities ofHind, even to the city of this man who hath done to thee whathath been done. and I also took this gazelle (my cousin)and wandered with her from town to town seeking tidings of myson, till Destiny drove me to this place where I saw the merchantsitting in tears. Such is my tale! Quoth the Jinni, "This storyis indeed strange, and therefore I grant thee the third part ofhis blood." There upon the second old man, who owned the twogreyhounds, came up and said, " O Jinni, if I recount to theewhat befel me from my brothers, these two hounds, and thou seethat it is a tale even more wondrous and marvellous than whatthou hast heard, wilt thou grant to me also the third of thisman's blood?" Replied the Jinni, "Thou hast my word for it, ifthine adventures be more marvellous and wondrous." Thereupon hethus began