Llyn Gwernen is by the side of the old road leading from Dolgellau toLlanegryn, at the foot of Cader Idris. A number of the farmers ofLlanegryn were once hurrying home from a fair at Dolgellau (they werehungry, because the men who sold food at Dolgellau fairs in the olden timeused to serve it up so hot that no one could touch it. The farmers were sobusy that they could not wait for the dishes to cool, and so it was verylittle they had for their money). They saw a great man, with green waterweeds entwined in his hair, and naked save for a girdle of green weeds,walking round the lake and crying in a querulous tone, "The hour is comebut the man is not, the hour is come but the man is not," over and overagain.The farmers were frightened and ran home. Others also who returned homelater than they saw and heard him, and it was afterwards found out thatthe great man with the green water weeds kept on complaining, "The hour iscome but the man is not," from ten o'clock at night until five o'clock inthe morning.Some days after the body of an Englishman was found floating, swollen andhorrible, on the surface of the lake. He had caused a great stir in theregions round about Cader Idris by sitting all night in the chair in whichthe astronomer Idris used in early days to watch the stars. (Idris was ofmore than ordinary stature. One day in walking he felt something in hisshoe hurting him. he pulled it off and shook out three stones, which arestill to be seen by the Lake of the Three Pebbles, Llyn y Tri Graienyn.One of them is twenty four feet long, eighteen feet broad, and twelve feethigh.) His object was to test the truth of the saying that anyone whospent a night in the chair would by morning be either mad, or a poet, or acorpse. So far from being a poet by the next day, he was not even a bard,and he certainly was not dead then. It was therefore concluded that hisintellect was deranged thereby, and he had in this state fallen into theclutches of the man with the green weeds, who had dragged him into thedepths of the lake. The objection to that idea was that he must have beenmad beforehand, because his chief delight was to climb to the summits ofmountains. The folk who dwell at the feet of such mountains as Cader Idrisand Snowdon make it a boast that they are much too sensible to attemptanything so silly.