(22) From the Russian. Kletke.Long time ago there lived a King who had three sons. the eldest wascalled Szabo, the second Warza, and the youngest Iwanich.One beautiful spring morning the King was walking through hisgardens with these three sons, gazing with admiration at the variousfruit trees, some of which were a mass of blossom, whilst others werebowed to the ground laden with rich fruit. During their wanderings theycame unperceived on a piece of waste land where three splendid treesgrew. The King looked on them for a moment, and then, shaking his headsadly, he passed on in silence.The sons, who could not understand why he did this, asked him the reasonof his dejection, and the King told them as follows:'These three trees, which I cannot see without sorrow, were planted byme on this spot when I was a youth of twenty. A celebrated magician, whohad given the seed to my father, promised him that they would grow intothe three finest trees the world had ever seen. My father did not liveto see his words come true. but on his death bed he bade me transplantthem here, and to look after them with the greatest care, which Iaccordingly did. At last, after the lapse of five long years, I noticedsome blossoms on the branches, and a few days later the most exquisitefruit my eyes had ever seen.'I gave my head gardener the strictest orders to watch the treescarefully, for the magician had warned my father that if one unripefruit were plucked from the tree, all the rest would become rotten atonce. When it was quite ripe the fruit would become a golden yellow.'Every day I gazed on the lovely fruit, which became gradually moreand more tempting looking, and it was all I could do not to break themagician's commands.'One night I dreamt that the fruit was perfectly ripe. I ate some of it,and it was more delicious than anything I had ever tasted in real life.As soon as I awoke I sent for the gardener and asked him if the fruit onthe three trees had not ripened in the night to perfection.'But instead of replying, the gardener threw himself at my feet andswore that he was innocent. He said that he had watched by the trees allnight, but in spite of it, and as if by magic, the beautiful trees hadbeen robbed of all their fruit.'Grieved as I was over the theft, I did not punish the gardener, ofwhose fidelity I was well assured, but I determined to pluck off all thefruit in the following year before it was ripe, as I had not much beliefin the magician's warning.'I carried out my intention, and had all the fruit picked off the tree,but when I tasted one of the apples it was bitter and unpleasant, andthe next morning the rest of the fruit had all rotted away.'After this I had the beautiful fruit of these trees carefully guardedby my most faithful servants. but every year, on this very night, thefruit was plucked and stolen by an invisible hand, and next morning nota single apple remained on the trees. For some time past I have given upeven having the trees watched.'When the King had finished his story, Szabo, his eldest son, said tohim: 'Forgive me, father, if I say I think you are mistaken. I am surethere are many men in your kingdom who could protect these trees fromthe cunning arts of a thieving magician. I myself, who as your eldestson claim the first right to do so, will mount guard over the fruit thisvery night.'The King consented, and as soon as evening drew on Szabo climbed up onto one of the trees, determined to protect the fruit even if it cost himhis life. So he kept watch half the night. but a little after midnighthe was overcome by an irresistible drowsiness, and fell fast asleep.He did not awake till it was bright daylight, and all the fruit on thetrees had vanished.The following year Warza, the second brother, tried his luck, but withthe same result. Then it came to the turn of the third and youngest son.Iwanich was not the least discouraged by the failure of his elderbrothers, though they were both much older and stronger than he was,and when night came climbed up the tree as they had done, The moon hadrisen, and with her soft light lit up the whole neighbourhood, so thatthe observant Prince could distinguish the smallest object distinctly.At midnight a gentle west wind shook the tree, and at the same momenta snow white swan like bird sank down gently on his breast. ThePrince hastily seized the bird's wings in his hands, when, lo! to hisastonishment he found he was holding in his arms not a bird but the mostbeautiful girl he had ever seen.'You need not fear Militza,' said the beautiful girl, looking at thePrince with friendly eyes. 'An evil magician has not robbed you of yourfruit, but he stole the seed from my mother, and thereby caused herdeath. When she was dying she bade me take the fruit, which you have noright to possess, from the trees every year as soon as it was ripe.This I would have done to night too, if you had not seized me with suchforce, and so broken the spell I was under.'Iwanich, who had been prepared to meet a terrible magician and not alovely girl, fell desperately in love with her. They spent the rest ofthe night in pleasant conversation, and when Militza wished to go awayhe begged her not to leave him.'I would gladly stay with you longer,' said Militza, 'but a wicked witchonce cut off a lock of my hair when I was asleep, which has put me inher power, and if morning were still to find me here she would do mesome harm, and you, too, perhaps.'Having said these words, she drew a sparkling diamond ring from herfinger, which she handed to the Prince, saying: 'Keep this ring inmemory of Militza, and think of her sometimes if you never see heragain. But if your love is really true, come and find me in my ownkingdom. I may not show you the way there, but this ring will guide you.'If you have love and courage enough to undertake this journey, wheneveryou come to a cross road always look at this diamond before you settlewhich way you are going to take. If it sparkles as brightly as ever gostraight on, but if its lustre is dimmed choose another path.'Then Militza bent over the Prince and kissed him on his forehead, andbefore he had time to say a word she vanished through the branches ofthe tree in a little white cloud.Morning broke, and the Prince, still full of the wonderful apparition,left his perch and returned to the palace like one in a dream, withouteven knowing if the fruit had been taken or not. for his whole mind wasabsorbed by thoughts of Militza and how he was to find her.As soon as the head gardener saw the Prince going towards the palace heran to the trees, and when he saw them laden with ripe fruit he hastenedto tell the King the joyful news. The King was beside himself for joy,and hurried at once to the garden and made the gardener pick him some ofthe fruit. He tasted it, and found the apple quite as luscious as ithad been in his dream. He went at once to his son Iwanich, and afterembracing him tenderly and heaping praises on him, he asked him howhe had succeeded in protecting the costly fruit from the power of themagician.This question placed Iwanich in a dilemma. But as he did not want thereal story to be known, he said that about midnight a huge wasp hadflown through the branches, and buzzed incessantly round him. He hadwarded it off with his sword, and at dawn, when he was becoming quiteworn out, the wasp had vanished as suddenly as it had appeared.The King, who never doubted the truth of this tale, bade his son go torest at once and recover from the fatigues of the night. but he himselfwent and ordered many feasts to be held in honour of the preservation ofthe wonderful fruit.The whole capital was in a stir, and everyone shared in the King's joy.the Prince alone took no part in the festivities.While the King was at a banquet, Iwanich took some purses of gold, andmounting the quickest horse in the royal stable, he sped off like thewind without a single soul being any the wiser.It was only on the next day that they missed him. the King was verydistressed at his disappearance, and sent search parties all over thekingdom to look for him, but in vain. and after six months they gave himup as dead, and in another six months they had forgotten all about him.But in the meantime the Prince, with the help of his ring, had had amost successful journey, and no evil had befallen him.At the end of three months he came to the entrance of a huge forest,which looked as if it had never been trodden by human foot before, andwhich seemed to stretch out indefinitely. The Prince was about to enterthe wood by a little path he had discovered, when he heard a voiceshouting to him: 'Hold, youth! Whither are you going?'Iwanich turned round, and saw a tall, gaunt looking man, clad inmiserable rags, leaning on a crooked staff and seated at the foot ofan oak tree, which was so much the same colour as himself that it waslittle wonder the Prince had ridden past the tree without noticing him.'Where else should I be going,' he said, 'than through the wood?''Through the wood?' said the old man in amazement. 'It's easily seenthat you have heard nothing of this forest, that you rush so blindly tomeet your doom. Well, listen to me before you ride any further. let metell you that this wood hides in its depths a countless number of thefiercest tigers, hyenas, wolves, bears, and snakes, and all sorts ofother monsters. If I were to cut you and your horse up into tiny morselsand throw them to the beasts, there wouldn't be one bit for each hundredof them. Take my advice, therefore, and if you wish to save your lifefollow some other path.'The Prince was rather taken aback by the old man's words, and consideredfor a minute what he should do. then looking at his ring, and perceivingthat it sparkled as brightly as ever, he called out: 'If this wood heldeven more terrible things than it does, I cannot help myself, for I mustgo through it.'Here he spurred his horse and rode on. but the old beggar screamed soloudly after him that the Prince turned round and rode back to the oaktree.'I am really sorry for you,' said the beggar, 'but if you are quitedetermined to brave the dangers of the forest, let me at least give youa piece of advice which will help you against these monsters.'Take this bagful of bread crumbs and this live hare. I will make youa present of them both, as I am anxious to save your life. but you mustleave your horse behind you, for it would stumble over the fallen treesor get entangled in the briers and thorns. When you have gone about ahundred yards into the wood the wild beasts will surround you. Then youmust instantly seize your bag, and scatter the bread crumbs among them.They will rush to eat them up greedily, and when you have scattered thelast crumb you must lose no time in throwing the hare to them. as soonas the hare feels itself on the ground it will run away as quickly aspossible, and the wild beasts will turn to pursue it. In this way youwill be able to get through the wood unhurt.'Iwanich thanked the old man for his counsel, dismounted from his horse,and, taking the bag and the hare in his arms, he entered the forest. Hehad hardly lost sight of his gaunt grey friend when he heard growls andsnarls in the thicket close to him, and before he had time to think hefound himself surrounded by the most dreadful looking creatures. Onone side he saw the glittering eye of a cruel tiger, on the other thegleaming teeth of a great she wolf. here a huge bear growled fiercely,and there a horrible snake coiled itself in the grass at his feet.But Iwanich did not forget the old man's advice, and quickly put hishand into the bag and took out as many bread crumbs as he could hold inhis hand at a time. He threw them to the beasts, but soon the bag grewlighter and lighter, and the Prince began to feel a little frightened.And now the last crumb was gone, and the hungry beasts thronged roundhim, greedy for fresh prey. Then he seized the hare and threw it tothem.No sooner did the little creature feel itself on the ground than itlay back its ears and flew through the wood like an arrow from a bow,closely pursued by the wild beasts, and the Prince was left alone. Helooked at his ring, and when he saw that it sparkled as brightly as everhe went straight on through the forest.He hadn't gone very far when he saw a most extraordinary looking mancoming towards him. He was not more than three feet high, his legswere quite crooked, and all his body was covered with prickles like ahedgehog. Two lions walked with him, fastened to his side by the twoends of his long beard.He stopped the Prince and asked him in a harsh voice: 'Are you the manwho has just fed my body guard?'Iwanich was so startled that he could hardly reply, but the little mancontinued: 'I am most grateful to you for your kindness. what can I giveyou as a reward?''All I ask,' replied Iwanich, 'is, that I should be allowed to gothrough this wood in safety.''Most certainly,' answered the little man. 'and for greater security Iwill give you one of my lions as a protector. But when you leave thiswood and come near a palace which does not belong to my domain, let thelion go, in order that he may not fall into the hands of an enemy and bekilled.'With these words he loosened the lion from his beard and bade the beastguard the youth carefully.With this new protector Iwanich wandered on through the forest, andthough he came upon a great many more wolves, hyenas, leopards, andother wild beasts, they always kept at a respectful distance when theysaw what sort of an escort the Prince had with him.Iwanich hurried through the wood as quickly as his legs would carry him,but, nevertheless, hour after hour went by and not a trace of a greenfield or a human habitation met his eyes. At length, towards evening,the mass of trees grew more transparent, and through the interlacedbranches a wide plain was visible.At the exit of the wood the lion stood still, and the Prince took leaveof him, having first thanked him warmly for his kind protection. It hadbecome quite dark, and Iwanich was forced to wait for daylight beforecontinuing his journey.He made himself a bed of grass and leaves, lit a fire of dry branches,and slept soundly till the next morning.Then he got up and walked towards a beautiful white palace which he sawgleaming in the distance. In about an hour he reached the building, andopening the door he walked in.After wandering through many marble halls, he came to a huge staircasemade of porphyry, leading down to a lovely garden.The Prince burst into a shout of joy when he suddenly perceived Militzain the centre of a group of girls who were weaving wreaths of flowerswith which to deck their mistress.As soon as Militza saw the Prince she ran up to him and embraced himtenderly. and after he had told her all his adventures, they went intothe palace, where a sumptuous meal awaited them. Then the Princesscalled her court together, and introduced Iwanich to them as her futurehusband.Preparations were at once made for the wedding, which was held soonafter with great pomp and magnificence.Three months of great happiness followed, when Militza received one dayan invitation to visit her mother's sister.Although the Princess was very unhappy at leaving her husband, she didnot like to refuse the invitation, and, promising to return in sevendays at the latest, she took a tender farewell of the Prince, andsaid: 'Before I go I will hand you over all the keys of the castle. Goeverywhere and do anything you like. only one thing I beg and beseechyou, do not open the little iron door in the north tower, which isclosed with seven locks and seven bolts. for if you do, we shall bothsuffer for it.'Iwanich promised what she asked, and Militza departed, repeating herpromise to return in seven days.When the Prince found himself alone he began to be tormented by pangsof curiosity as to what the room in the tower contained. For two days heresisted the temptation to go and look, but on the third he could standit no longer, and taking a torch in his hand he hurried to the tower,and unfastened one lock after the other of the little iron door until itburst open.What an unexpected sight met his gaze! The Prince perceived a small roomblack with smoke, lit up feebly by a fire from which issued long blueflames. Over the fire hung a huge cauldron full of boiling pitch, andfastened into the cauldron by iron chains stood a wretched man screamingwith agony.Iwanich was much horrified at the sight before him, and asked the manwhat terrible crime he had committed to be punished in this dreadfulfashion.'I will tell you everything,' said the man in the cauldron. 'but firstrelieve my torments a little, I implore you.''And how can I do that?' asked the Prince.'With a little water,' replied the man. 'only sprinkle a few drops overme and I shall feel better.'The Prince, moved by pity, without thinking what he was doing, ranto the courtyard of the castle, and filled a jug with water, which hepoured over the man in the cauldron.In a moment a most fearful crash was heard, as if all the pillars of thepalace were giving way, and the palace itself, with towers and doors,windows and the cauldron, whirled round the bewildered Prince's head.This continued for a few minutes, and then everything vanished intothin air, and Iwanich found himself suddenly alone upon a desolate heathcovered with rocks and stones.The Prince, who now realised what his heedlessness had done, cursed toolate his spirit of curiosity. In his despair he wandered on over theheath, never looking where he put his feet, and full of sorrowfulthoughts. At last he saw a light in the distance, which came from amiserable looking little hut.The owner of it was none other than the kind hearted gaunt grey beggarwho had given the Prince the bag of bread crumbs and the hare. Withoutrecognising Iwanich, he opened the door when he knocked and gave himshelter for the night.On the following morning the Prince asked his host if he could get himany work to do, as he was quite unknown in the neighbourhood, and hadnot enough money to take him home.'My son,' replied the old man, 'all this country round here isuninhabited. I myself have to wander to distant villages for my living,and even then I do not very often find enough to satisfy my hunger. Butif you would like to take service with the old witch Corva, go straightup the little stream which flows below my hut for about three hours, andyou will come to a sand hill on the left hand side. that is where shelives.'Iwanich thanked the gaunt grey beggar for his information, and went onhis way.After walking for about three hours the Prince came upon adreary looking grey stone wall. this was the back of the building anddid not attract him. but when he came upon the front of the househe found it even less inviting, for the old witch had surrounded herdwelling with a fence of spikes, on every one of which a man's skull wasstuck. In this horrible enclosure stood a small black house, which hadonly two grated windows, all covered with cobwebs, and a battered irondoor.The Prince knocked, and a rasping woman's voice told him to enter.Iwanich opened the door, and found himself in a smoke begrimed kitchen,in the presence of a hideous old woman who was warming her skinny handsat a fire. The Prince offered to become her servant, and the old hagtold him she was badly in want of one, and he seemed to be just theperson to suit her.When Iwanich asked what his work, and how much his wages would be, thewitch bade him follow her, and led the way through a narrow damppassage into a vault, which served as a stable. Here he perceived twopitch black horses in a stall.'You see before you,' said the old woman, 'a mare and her foal. you havenothing to do but to lead them out to the fields every day, and to seethat neither of them runs away from you. If you look after them both fora whole year I will give you anything you like to ask. but if, on theother hand, you let either of the animals escape you, your last hour iscome, and your head shall be stuck on the last spike of my fence. Theother spikes, as you see, are already adorned, and the skulls are allthose of different servants I have had who have failed to do what Idemanded.'Iwanich, who thought he could not be much worse off than he was already,agreed to the witch's proposal.At daybreak nest morning he drove his horses to the field, and broughtthem back in the evening without their ever having attempted to breakaway from him. The witch stood at her door and received him kindly, andset a good meal before him.So it continued for some time, and all went well with the Prince.Early every morning he led the horses out to the fields, and broughtthem home safe and sound in the evening.One day, while he was watching the horses, he came to the banks of ariver, and saw a big fish, which through some mischance had been cast onthe land, struggling hard to get back into the water.Iwanich, who felt sorry for the poor creature, seized it in his arms andflung it into the stream. But no sooner did the fish find itself in thewater again, than, to the Prince's amazement, it swam up to the bank andsaid:'My kind benefactor, how can I reward you for your goodness?''I desire nothing,' answered the Prince. 'I am quite content to havebeen able to be of some service to you.''You must do me the favour,' replied the fish, 'to take a scale from mybody, and keep it carefully. If you should ever need my help, throw itinto the river, and I will come to your aid at once.'Iwanich bowed, loosened a scale from the body of the grateful beast, putit carefully away, and returned home.A short time after this, when he was going early one morning to theusual grazing place with his horses, he noticed a flock of birdsassembled together making a great noise and flying wildly backwards andforwards.Full of curiosity, Iwanich hurried up to the spot, and saw that a largenumber of ravens had attacked an eagle, and although the eagle was bigand powerful and was making a brave fight, it was overpowered at last bynumbers, and had to give in.But the Prince, who was sorry for the poor bird, seized the branch ofa tree and hit out at the ravens with it. terrified at this unexpectedonslaught they flew away, leaving many of their number dead or woundedon the battlefield.As soon as the eagle saw itself free from its tormentors it plucked afeather from its wing, and, handing it to the Prince, said: 'Here, mykind benefactor, take this feather as a proof of my gratitude. shouldyou ever be in need of my help blow this feather into the air, and Iwill help you as much as is in my power.'Iwanich thanked the bird, and placing the feather beside the scale hedrove the horses home.Another day he had wandered farther than usual, and came close to afarmyard. the place pleased the Prince, and as there was plenty of goodgrass for the horses he determined to spend the day there. Just as hewas sitting down under a tree he heard a cry close to him, and saw a foxwhich had been caught in a trap placed there by the farmer.In vain did the poor beast try to free itself. then the good naturedPrince came once more to the rescue, and let the fox out of the trap.The fox thanked him heartily, tore two hairs out of his bushy tail, andsaid: 'Should you ever stand in need of my help throw these two hairsinto the fire, and in a moment I shall be at your side ready to obeyyou.'Iwanich put the fox's hairs with the scale and the feather, and as itwas getting dark he hastened home with his horses.In the meantime his service was drawing near to an end, and in threemore days the year was up, and he would be able to get his reward andleave the witch.On the first evening of these last three days, when he came home and waseating his supper, he noticed the old woman stealing into the stables.The Prince followed her secretly to see what she was going to do. Hecrouched down in the doorway and heard the wicked witch telling thehorses to wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep, and then to go andhide themselves in the river, and to stay there till she told them toreturn. and if they didn't do as she told them the old woman threatenedto beat them till they bled.When Iwanich heard all this he went back to his room, determined thatnothing should induce him to fall asleep next day. On the followingmorning he led the mare and foal to the fields as usual, but bound acord round them both which he kept in his hand.But after a few hours, by the magic arts of the old witch, he wasoverpowered by sleep, and the mare and foal escaped and did as they hadbeen told to do. The Prince did not awake till late in the evening. andwhen he did, he found, to his horror, that the horses had disappeared.Filled with despair, he cursed the moment when he had entered theservice of the cruel witch, and already he saw his head sticking up onthe sharp spike beside the others.Then he suddenly remembered the fish's scale, which, with the eagle'sfeather and the fox's hairs, he always carried about with him. He drewthe scale from his pocket, and hurrying to the river he threw it in. Ina minute the grateful fish swam towards the bank on which Iwanich wasstanding, and said: 'What do you command, my friend and benefactor?'The Prince replied: 'I had to look after a mare and foal, and they haverun away from me and have hidden themselves in the river. if you wish tosave my life drive them back to the land.''Wait a moment,' answered the fish, 'and I and my friends will soondrive them out of the water.' With these words the creature disappearedinto the depths of the stream.Almost immediately a rushing hissing sound was heard in the waters, thewaves dashed against the banks, the foam was tossed into the air, andthe two horses leapt suddenly on to the dry land, trembling and shakingwith fear.Iwanich sprang at once on to the mare's back, seized the foal by itsbridle, and hastened home in the highest spirits.When the witch saw the Prince bringing the horses home she could hardlyconceal her wrath, and as soon as she had placed Iwanich's supper beforehim she stole away again to the stables. The Prince followed her, andheard her scolding the beasts harshly for not having hidden themselvesbetter. She bade them wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep and thento hide themselves in the clouds, and to remain there till she called.If they did not do as she told them she would beat them till they bled.The next morning, after Iwanich had led his horses to the fields, hefell once more into a magic sleep. The horses at once ran away and hidthemselves in the clouds, which hung down from the mountains in softbillowy masses.When the Prince awoke and found that both the mare and the foal haddisappeared, he bethought him at once of the eagle, and taking thefeather out of his pocket he blew it into the air.In a moment the bird swooped down beside him and asked: 'What do youwish me to do?''My mare and foal,' replied the Prince, 'have run away from me, and havehidden themselves in the clouds. if you wish to save my life, restoreboth animals to me.''Wait a minute,' answered the eagle. 'with the help of my friends I willsoon drive them back to you.'With these words the bird flew up into the air and disappeared among theclouds.Almost directly Iwanich saw his two horses being driven towards him bya host of eagles of all sizes. He caught the mare and foal, and havingthanked the eagle he drove them cheerfully home again.The old witch was more disgusted than ever when she saw him appearing,and having set his supper before him she stole into the stables, andIwanich heard her abusing the horses for not having hidden themselvesbetter in the clouds. Then she bade them hide themselves next morning,as soon as Iwanich was asleep, in the King's hen house, which stood ona lonely part of the heath, and to remain there till she called. If theyfailed to do as she told them she would certainly beat them this timetill they bled.On the following morning the Prince drove his horses as usual to thefields. After he had been overpowered by sleep, as on the former days,the mare and foal ran away and hid themselves in the royal hen house.When the Prince awoke and found the horses gone he determined to appealto the fox. so, lighting a fire, he threw the two hairs into it, andin a few moments the fox stood beside him and asked: 'In what way can Iserve you?''I wish to know,' replied Iwanich, 'where the King's hen house is.''Hardly an hour's walk from here,' answered the fox, and offered to showthe Prince the way to it.While they were walking along the fox asked him what he wanted to doat the royal hen house. The Prince told him of the misfortune that hadbefallen him, and of the necessity of recovering the mare and foal.'That is no easy matter,' replied the fox. 'But wait a moment. I havean idea. Stand at the door of the hen house, and wait there for yourhorses. In the meantime I will slip in among the hens through a hole inthe wall and give them a good chase, so that the noise they make willarouse the royal henwives, and they will come to see what is the matter.When they see the horses they will at once imagine them to be the causeof the disturbance, and will drive them out. Then you must lay hands onthe mare and foal and catch them.All turned out exactly as the sly fox had foreseen. The Prince swunghimself on the mare, seized the foal by its bridle, and hurried home.While he was riding over the heath in the highest of spirits the maresuddenly said to her rider: 'You are the first person who has eversucceeded in outwitting the old witch Corva, and now you may ask whatreward you like for your service. If you promise never to betray me Iwill give you a piece of advice which you will do well to follow.'The Prince promised never to betray her confidence, and the marecontinued: 'Ask nothing else as a reward than my foal, for it has notits like in the world, and is not to be bought for love or money. for itcan go from one end of the earth to another in a few minutes. Of coursethe cunning Corva will do her best to dissuade you from taking the foal,and will tell you that it is both idle and sickly. but do not believeher, and stick to your point.'Iwanich longed to possess such an animal, and promised the mare tofollow her advice.This time Corva received him in the most friendly manner, and set asumptuous repast before him. As soon as he had finished she asked himwhat reward he demanded for his year's service.'Nothing more nor less,' replied the Prince, 'than the foal of yourmare.'The witch pretended to be much astonished at his request, and said thathe deserved something much better than the foal, for the beast was lazyand nervous, blind in one eye, and, in short, was quite worthless.But the Prince knew what he wanted, and when the old witch saw that hehad made up his mind to have the foal, she said, 'I am obliged to keepmy promise and to hand you over the foal. and as I know who you are andwhat you want, I will tell you in what way the animal will be useful toyou. The man in the cauldron of boiling pitch, whom you set free, is amighty magician. through your curiosity and thoughtlessness Militza cameinto his power, and he has transported her and her castle and belongingsinto a distant country.'You are the only person who can kill him. and in consequence he fearsyou to such an extent that he has set spies to watch you, and theyreport your movements to him daily.'When you have reached him, beware of speaking a single word to him, oryou will fall into the power of his friends. Seize him at once by thebeard and dash him to the ground.'Iwanich thanked the old witch, mounted his foal, put spurs to its sides,and they flew like lightning through the air.Already it was growing dark, when Iwanich perceived some figures in thedistance. they soon came up to them, and then the Prince saw that itwas the magician and his friends who were driving through the air in acarriage drawn by owls.When the magician found himself face to face with Iwanich, without hopeof escape, he turned to him with false friendliness and said: 'Thrice mykind benefactor!'But the Prince, without saying a word, seized him at once by his beardand dashed him to the ground. At the same moment the foal sprang on thetop of the magician and kicked and stamped on him with his hoofs till hedied.Then Iwanich found himself once more in the palace of his bride, andMilitza herself flew into his arms.From this time forward they lived in undisturbed peace and happinesstill the end of their lives.