Once upon a time, a long while ago, when beasts and fowls could talk,it happened that a dog lived in a farmer's barnyard. By and by he grewtired of watching the house all night and working hard all day, so hethought he'd go out into the world to seek his fortune. One fine day, whenthe farmer had gone away, he started off down the road.He hadn't gone far when he spied a cat curled up asleep on a door stonein a farmer's yard, so he looked over the fence and called to the cat,"I'm going out into the world to seek my fortune. Don't you want to comealong too?"But the cat said she was very comfortable where she was, and didn'tthink she cared to go traveling. But the dog told her that by and by whenshe got old the farmer wouldn't let her lie on his sunny door stone, butwould make her lie in the cold, no matter whether it snowed or not. So thecat concluded she'd go along too, and they walked down the road arm inarm.They hadn't gone far when they spied a jackass eating grass in afarmer's yard.So the dog looked over the fence and called to the jackass, "We'regoing out into the world to seek our fortune. Don't you want to come alongtoo?"But the jackass said he was very comfortable where he was, and didn'tthink he cared to go traveling. But the dog told him that by and by, whenhe got old and stiff, he'd have to work early and late, year after year,for only just what he would eat, and short allowance at that. So thejackass concluded to go along too, and they all walked down the road armin arm.They hadn't gone far when they spied a cock crowing in a farmer's yard,so the dog looked over the fence and called, "We're going out into theworld to seek our fortune. Don't you want to come along too?"But the rooster said he was very comfortable where he was, and didn'tthink he cared to go traveling. But the dog told him that by and by, whenit came Thanksgiving, pop would go his head, and he'd make a finedinner for the farmer. So the rooster concluded he'd go along too, andthey all walked down the road arm in arm.Now they had neglected to take anything to eat along with them, andwhen night overtook them, weary, footsore, and hungry, they were in adense forest, and they all began to blame the dog for getting them intosuch a scrape. The ass proposed that the cock should fly to the top of ahigh tree to see if he could discover a place for them to lodge. He hadscarcely perched on a limb before he called to his friends that a housewas a little way off, for he could see a light in the window. The dogcalled to him to come down and lead the was to the house, and they allwalked off arm in arm to the house.When they got there it was perfectly still about the house. They couldhear no one inside. The ass kicked at the door, but no one answered. Theylooked about and found the house had only one window, and that was so highup they couldn't look in. He proposed that the jackass should stand on hishind legs, with his forelegs resting against the house, while the dogshould clamber up his back and stand on his head, the cat run up the backsof both, and the rooster fly to the cat's head, and then he could justlook in at the window."Hurry and tell what you see," said the jackass, "for my neck isbreaking off.""I see a fire on a hearth and a table loaded with all sorts of finethings to eat: turkey and plum pudding, and pan dowdy, and a band of mensitting round the table.""Zounds!" said the dog, "we must get in."So the rooster flew against the window with such a crash that it scaredthe robbers   for this was a band of robbers   nearly to death. Theyjumped up from the table so quickly that they overturned their chairs andwhisked out the candles, while in flew the rooster, the cat, and the dogat the window, while the jackass went round and waited at the door tillthe robbers came out and ran away.Then the beasts lighted the candles again, and picked up the chairs,and sat down and had a good supper. Then they began to look about to seehow they should dispose of themselves for the night. The jackass went outin the barn to sleep in the hay, the dog lay on the rug by the hearth, thecat took up her bed among the warm ashes, and the rooster flew to theridgepole of the house, and soon all were fast asleep, being very tired bytheir long day's journey.By and by the robbers plucked up courage, and about midnight came backto the house to see if perchance they had not been scared at theirshadows. Two of them got in at the window to take a survey, and seeing thecat's glowing eyes in the ashes mistook them for coals, and scratching amatch in them the cat sunk her claws in his hand, which terrified him somuch that in attempting to escape he ran against the dog, and he in turncaught the robber by the leg and bit him.By this time the tumult had awakened the ass, and just as the robberrushed out at the door the jackass met him and kicked him ten feet in theair, while the rooster set up a hideous crowing. It took but a few minutesfor the robbers to escape to the woods and find their companions, to whomthey told a doleful tale, how in trying to light a match at the fireplacethe devil with red hot eyes stuck his claws into his hands, a second devilattacked him in the rear, while another devil kicked him into the air,and as he came down on the greensward, more dead than alive, anotherhorrid demon form the housetop cried out, "Throw the rascal up her,through the rascal up here."The thieves could never be induced to go back to the house. Theythought it haunted by devils. So our friends, the jackass, the dog, thecat, and the rooster, lived there happy forever after, preferring it totraveling about to see the world.