I was the chief of the race he had stricken my father dead But I gathered my fellows together. I swore I would strike off his head.Each of them looked like a king, and was noble in birth as in worth,And each of them boasted he sprang from the oldest race upon earth.Each was as brave in the fight as the bravest hero of song,And each of them liefer had died than have done one another a wrong._He_ lived on an isle in the ocean we sail'd on a Friday morn He that had slain my father the day before I was born.And we came to the isle in the ocean, and there on the shore was he.But a sudden blast blew us out and away through a boundless sea.And we came to the Silent Isle that we never had touched before,Where a silent ocean always broke on a silent shore,And the brooks glittered on in the light without sound, and the longwaterfallsPoured in a thunderless plunge to the base of the mountain walls,And the poplar and cypress unshaken by storm flourished up beyond sightAnd the pine shot aloft from the crag to an unbelievable height,And high in the heaven above it there flickered a songless lark,And the cock couldn't crow, and the bull couldn't low, and the dogcouldn't bark.And round it we went, and thro' it, but never a murmur, a breath,It was all of it fair as life, it was all of it quiet as death,And we hated the beautiful Isle, for whenever we strove to speakOur voices were thinner and fainter than any flittermouse shriek.And the men that were mighty of tongue, and could raise such a battle cryThat a hundred who heard it would rush on a thousand lances and die Oh, they to be dumb'd by the charm! so fluster'd with anger were theyThey almost fell on each other. but, after, we sailed away.And we came to the Isle of Shouting, we landed, a score of wild birdsCried from the topmost summit with human voices and words.Once in an hour they cried, and whenever their voices peal'dThe steer fell down at the plough and the harvest died from the field,And the men dropt dead in the valleys and half of the cattle went lame,And the roof sank in on the hearth, and the dwelling broke into flame.And the shouting of these wild birds ran into the hearts of my crew,Till they shouted along with the shouting, and seized one another andslew.But I drew them the one from the other. I saw that we could not stay,And we left the dead to the birds and we sail'd with our wounded away.And we came to the Isle of Flowers, their breath met us out on the seas,For the Spring and the middle Summer sat each on the lap of the breeze.And the red passion flower to the cliffs, and the dark blue clematisclungAnd starr'd with a myriad blossom, the long convolvulus hung.And the topmost spire of the mountain was lilies in lieu of snow,And the lilies like glaciers winded down, running out belowThro' the fire of the tulip and poppy, the blaze of gorse, and the blushOf millions of roses that sprang without leaf or thorn from the bush.And the whole isle side flashing down from the peak without ever a treeSwept like a torrent of gems from the sky to the blue of the sea.And we roll'd upon capes of crocus and vaunted our kith and kin,And we wallowed in beds of lilies, and chanted the triumph of Finn,Till each like a golden image was pollen'd from head to feetAnd each was as dry as a cricket, with thirst in the middle day heat.Blossom, and blossom, and promise of blossom, but never a fruit!And we hated the Flowering Isle, as we hated the isle that was mute,And we tore up the flowers by the million and flung them in bight andbay.And we left but a naked rock, and in anger we sail'd away.And we came to the Isle of Fruits: all round from the cliffs and thecapes,Purple or amber dangled a hundred fathom of grapes,And the warm melon lay, like a little sun, on the tawny sand,And the fig ran up from the beach, and rioted over the land,And the mountain arose, like a jewelled throne thro' the fragrant air,Glowing with all coloured plums, and with golden masses of pear,And the crimson and scarlet of berries that flamed upon bine and vine,But in every berry and fruit was the poisonous pleasure of wine:And the peak of the mountain was apples, the hugest that ever were seen,And they prest, as they grew, on each other, with hardly a leafletbetween.And all of them redder than rosiest health, or than utterest shame,And setting, when Even descended, the very sunset aflame.And we stay'd three days, and we gorged and we madden'd till everyonedrewHis sword on his fellow to slay him, and ever they struck and they slew.And myself I had eaten but sparsely, and fought till I sunder'd the fray,Then I bade them remember my father's death, and we sail'd away.And we came to the Isle of Fire: we were lured by the light from afar,For the peak sent up one league of fire to the Northern Star.Lured by the glare and the blare, but scarcely could stand upright,For the whole isle shudder'd and shook, like a man in a mortal affright.We were giddy, besides, with the fruits we had gorged, and so crazed thatat last,There were some leap'd into the fire. and away we sail'd, and we pastOver that undersea isle, where the water is clearer than air:Down we look'd: what a garden! Oh, bliss, what a Paradise there!Towers of a happier time, low down in a rainbow deepSilent palaces, quiet fields of eternal sleep!And three of the gentlest and best of my people, whate'er I could say,Plunged head down in the sea, and the Paradise trembled away.And we came to the Bounteous Isle, where the heavens lean low on theland,And ever at dawn from the cloud glitter'd o'er us a sun bright hand,Then it opened, and dropped at the side of each man, as he rose from hisrest,Bread enough for his need till the labourless day dipt under the West.And we wandered about it, and thro' it. Oh, never was time so good!And we sang of the triumphs of Finn, and the boast of our ancient blood,And we gazed at the wandering wave, as we sat by the gurgle of springs,And we chanted the songs of the Bards and the glories of fairy kings.But at length we began to be weary, to sigh, and to stretch and yawn,Till we hated the Bounteous Isle, and the sun bright hand of the dawn,For there was not an enemy near, but the whole green isle was our own,And we took to playing at ball, and we took to throwing the stone,And we took to playing at battle, but that was a perilous play,For the passion of battle was in us, we slew and we sail'd away.And we passed to the Isle of Witches, and heard their musical cry "Come to us, Oh, come, come," in the stormy red of a skyDashing the fires and the shadows of dawn on the beautiful shapes,For a wild witch, naked as heaven, stood on each of the loftiest capes,And a hundred ranged on the rocks, like white sea birds in a row,And a hundred gambled and pranced on the wrecks in the sand below,And a hundred splashed from the ledges, and bosomed the burst of thespray.But I knew we should fall on each other, and hastily sail'd away.And we came in an evil time to the Isle of the Double Towers,One was of smooth cut stone, one carved all over with flowers,But an earthquake always moved in the hollows under the dells,And they shock'd on each other and butted each other with clashing ofbells,And the daws flew out of the Towers, and jangled and wrangled in vain,And the clash and boom of the bells rang into the heart and brain,Till the passion of battle was on us, and all took sides with the Towers,There were some for the clean cut stone, there were more for the carvenflowers,And the wrathful thunder of God peal'd over us all the day,For the one half slew the other, and, after, we sail'd away.And we came to the Isle of a Saint, who had sail'd with St. Brendan ofyore,He had lived ever since on the isle, and his winters were fifteen score,And his voice was low as from other worlds, and his eyes were sweet,And his white hair sank to his heels, and his white beard fell to hisfeet,And he spake to me, "Oh, Maeldune, let be this purpose of thine!Remember the words of the Lord, when He told us 'Vengeance is Mine!'His fathers have slain thy fathers, in war or in single strife,Thy fathers have slain his fathers, each taken a life for a life,Thy father had slain his father, how long shall the murder last?Go back to the Isle of Finn and suffer the Past to be Past."And we kiss'd the fringe of his beard, and we pray'd as we heard himpray,And the Holy Man he assoil'd us, and sadly we sail'd away.And we came to the Isle we were blown from, and there on the shore washe,The man that had slain my father. I saw him, and let him be.Oh, weary was I of the travel, the trouble, the strife, and the sin,When I landed again with a tithe of my men on the Island of Finn.The Book Of TheTHOUSAND NIGHTS AND A NIGHT(ALF LAYLAH WA LAYLAH.)In the Name of Allah,the Compassionating, the Compassionate!PRAISE BE TO ALLAH THE BENEFICENT KING THE CREATOR OF THEUNIVERSE LORD OF THE THREE WORLDS WHO SET UP THE FIRMAMENTWITHOUT PILLARS IN ITS STEAD AND WHO STRETCHED OUT THE EARTHEVEN AS A BED AND GRACE, AND PRAYER BLESSING BE UPON OUR LORDMOHAMMED LORD OF APOSTOLIC MEN AND UPON HIS FAMILY ANDCOMPANION TRAIN PRAYER AND BLESSINGS ENDURING AND GRACE WHICHUNTO THE DAY OF DOOM SHALL REMAIN AMEN! O THOU OF THE THREEWORLDS SOVEREIGN!And afterwards. Verily the works and words of those gone beforeus have become instances and examples to men of our modern day,that folk may view what admonishing chances befel other folk andmay therefrom take warning. and that they may peruse the annalsof antique peoples and all that hath betided them, and be therebyruled and restrained: Praise, therefore, be to Him who hath madethe histories of the Past an admonition unto the Present! Now ofsuch instances are the tales called "A Thousand Nights and aNight," together with their far famed legends and wonders.Therein it is related (but Allah is All knowing of His hiddenthings and All ruling and All honoured and All giving and Allgracious and All merciful ) that, in tide of yore and intime long gone before, there was a King of the Kings of the BanuSasan in the Islands of India and China, a Lord of armies andguards and servants and dependents. He left only two sons,one in the prime of manhood and the other yet a youth, while bothwere Knights and Braves, albeit the elder was a doughtierhorseman than the younger. So he succeeded to the empire. when heruled the land and forded it over his lieges with justice soexemplary that he was beloved by all the peoples of his capitaland of his kingdom. His name was King Shahryar, and he madehis younger brother, Shah Zaman hight, King of Samarcand inBarbarian land. These two ceased not to abide in their severalrealms and the law was ever carried out in their dominions. andeach ruled his own kingdom, with equity and fair dealing to hissubjects, in extreme solace and enjoyment. and this conditioncontinually endured for a score of years. But at the end of thetwentieth twelvemonth the elder King yearned for a sight of hisyounger brother and felt that he must look upon him once more. Sohe took counsel with his Wazir about visiting him, but theMinister, finding the project unadvisable, recommended that aletter be written and a present be sent under his charge to theyounger brother with an invitation to visit the elder. Havingaccepted this advice the King forthwith bade prepare handsomegifts, such as horses with saddles of gem encrusted gold.Mamelukes, or white slaves. beautiful handmaids, high breastedvirgins, and splendid stuffs and costly. He then wrote a letterto Shah Zaman expressing his warm love and great wish to seehim, ending with these words, "We therefore hope of the favourand affection of the beloved brother that he will condescend tobestir himself and turn his face us wards. Furthermore we havesent our Wazir to make all ordinance for the march, and our oneand only desire is to see thee ere we die. but if thou delay ordisappoint us we shall not survive the blow. Wherewith peace beupon thee!" Then King Shahryar, having sealed the missive andgiven it to the Wazir with the offerings aforementioned,commanded him to shorten his skirts and strain his strength andmake all expedition in going and returning. "Harkening andobedience!" quoth the Minister, who fell to making ready withoutstay and packed up his loads and prepared all his requisiteswithout delay. This occupied him three days, and on the dawn ofthe fourth he took leave of his King and marched right away, overdesert and hill' way, stony waste and pleasant lea withouthalting by night or by day. But whenever he entered a realm whoseruler was subject to his Suzerain, where he was greeted withmagnificent gifts of gold and silver and all manner of presentsfair and rare, he would tarry there three days, the termof the guest rite. and, when he left on the fourth, he would behonourably escorted for a whole day's march. As soon as theWazir drew near Shah Zaman's court in Samarcand he despatched toreport his arrival one of his high officials, who presentedhimself before the King. and, kissing ground between his hands,delivered his message. Hereupon the King commanded sundry of hisGrandees and Lords of his realm to fare forth and meet hisbrother's Wazir at the distance of a full day's journey. whichthey did, greeting him respectfully and wishing him allprosperity and forming an escort and a procession. When heentered the city he proceeded straightway to the palace, wherehe presented himself in the royal presence. and, after kissingground and praying for the King's health and happiness and forvictory over all his enemies, he informed him that his brotherwas yearning to see him, and prayed for the pleasure of a visit.He then delivered the letter which Shah Zaman took from his handand read: it contained sundry hints and allusions which requiredthought. but, when the King had fully comprehended its import, hesaid, "I hear and I obey the commands of the beloved brother!"adding to the Wazir, "But we will not march till after the thirdday's hospitality." He appointed for the Minister fittingquarters of the palace. and, pitching tents for the troops,rationed them with whatever they might require of meat and drinkand other necessaries. On the fourth day he made ready forwayfare and got together sumptuous presents befitting his elderbrother's majesty, and stablished his chief Wazir viceroy of theland during his absence. Then he caused his tents and camels andmules to be brought forth and encamped, with their bales andloads, attend ants and guards, within sight of the city, inreadiness to set out next morning for his brother's capital. Butwhen the night was half spent he bethought him that he hadforgotten in his palace somewhat which he should have broughtwith him, so he re turned privily and entered his apartments,where he found the Queen, his wife, asleep on his own carpetbed, embracing with both arms a black cook of loathsome aspectand foul with kitchen grease and grime. When he saw this theworld waxed black before his sight and he said, "If such casehappen while I am yet within sight of the city what will be thedoings of this damned whore during my long absence at mybrother's court?" So he drew his scymitar and, cutting the two infour pieces with a single blow, left them on the carpet andreturned presently to his camp without letting anyone know ofwhat had happened. Then he gave orders for immediate departureand set out at once and began his travel. but he could not helpthinking over his wife's treason and he kept ever saying tohimself, "How could she do this deed by me? How could she workher own death?," till excessive grief seized him, his colourchanged to yellow, his body waxed weak and he was threatenedwith a dangerous malady, such an one as bringeth men to die. Sothe Wazir shortened his stages and tarried long at the wateringstations and did his best to solace the King. Now when Shah Zamandrew near the capital of his brother he despatched vauntcouriers and messengers of glad tidings to announce his arrival,and Shahryar came forth to meet him with his Wazirs and Emirsand Lords and Grandees of his realm. and saluted him and joyedwith exceeding joy and caused the city to be decorated in hishonour. When, however, the brothers met, the elder could not butsee the change of complexion in the younger and questioned himof his case whereto he replied, "Tis caused by the travails ofwayfare and my case needs care, for I have suffered from thechange of water and air! but Allah be praised for reuniting mewith a brother so dear and so rare!" On this wise he dissembledand kept his secret, adding, "O King of the time and Caliph ofthe tide, only toil and moil have tinged my face yellow withbile and hath made my eyes sink deep in my head." Then the twoentered the capital in all honour. and the elder brother lodgedthe younger in a palace overhanging the pleasure garden. and,after a time, seeing his condition still unchanged, he attributedit to his separation from his country and kingdom. So he let himwend his own ways and asked no questions of him till one day whenhe again said, "O my brother, I see thou art grown weaker ofbody and yellower of colour." "O my brother," replied Shah Zaman"I have an internal wound:" still he would not tell himwhat he had witnessed in his wife. Thereupon Shahryar summoneddoctors and surgeons and bade them treat his brother accordingto the rules of art, which they did for a whole month. but theirsherbets and potions naught availed, for he would dwell upon thedeed of his wife, and despondency, instead of diminishing,prevailed, and leach craft treatment utterly failed. One day hiselder brother said to him, "I am going forth to hunt and courseand to take my pleasure and pastime. maybe this would lighten thyheart." Shah Zaman, however, refused, saying, "O my brother, mysoul yearneth for naught of this sort and I entreat thy favour tosuffer me tarry quietly in this place, being wholly taken upwith my malady." So King Shah Zaman passed his night in thepalace and, next morning, when his brother had fared forth, heremoved from his room and sat him down at one of the latticewindows overlooking the pleasure grounds. and there he abodethinking with saddest thought over his wife's betrayal andburning sighs issued from his tortured breast. And as hecontinued in this case lo! a pastern of the palace, which wascarefully kept private, swung open and out of it came twentyslave girls surrounding his bother's wife who was wondrous fair,a model of beauty and comeliness and symmetry and perfectloveliness and who paced with the grace of a gazelle whichpanteth for the cooling stream. Thereupon Shah Zaman drew backfrom the window, but he kept the bevy in sight espying them froma place whence he could not be espied. They walked under the verylattice and advanced a little way into the garden till they cameto a jetting fountain amiddlemost a great basin of water. thenthey stripped off their clothes and behold, ten of them werewomen, concubines of the King, and the other ten were whiteslaves. Then they all paired off, each with each: but the Queen,who was left alone, presently cried out in a loud voice, "Here tome, O my lord Saeed!" and then sprang with a drop leap from oneof the trees a big slobbering blackamoor with rolling eyes whichshowed the whites, a truly hideous sight. He walked boldlyup to her and threw his arms round her neck while she embracedhim as warmly. then he bussed her and winding his legs roundhers, as a button loop clasps a button, he threw her and enjoyedher. On like wise did the other slaves with the girls till allhad satisfied their passions, and they ceased not from kissingand clipping, coupling and carousing till day began to wane. whenthe Mamelukes rose from the damsels' bosoms and the blackamoorslave dismounted from the Queen's breast. the men resumed theirdisguises and all, except the negro who swarmed up the tree,entered the palace and closed the postern door as before. Now,when Shah Zaman saw this conduct of his sister in law he said inhimself, "By Allah, my calamity is lighter than this! My brotheris a greater King among the kings than I am, yet this infamygoeth on in his very palace, and his wife is in love with thatfilthiest of filthy slaves. But this only showeth that they alldo it and that there is no woman but who cuckoldeth herhusband, then the curse of Allah upon one and all and upon thefools who lean against them for support or who place the reins ofconduct in their hands." So he put away his melancholy anddespondency, regret and repine, and allayed his sorrow byconstantly repeating those words, adding, " 'Tis my convictionthat no man in this world is safe from their malice!" When suppertime came they brought him the trays and he ate with voraciousappetite, for he had long refrained from meat, feeling unable totouch any dish however dainty. Then he returned grateful thanksto Almighty Allah, praising Him and blessing Him, and he spent amost restful night, it having been long since he had savoured thesweet food of sleep. Next day he broke his fast heartily andbegan to recover health and strength, and presently regainedexcellent condition. His brother came back from the chase tendays after, when he rode out to meet him and they saluted eachother. and when King Shahryar looked at King Shah Zaman he sawhow the hue of health had returned to him, how his face had waxedruddy and how he ate with an appetite after his late scanty diet.He wondered much and said, "O my brother, I was so anxious thatthou wouldst join me in hunting and chasing, and wouldst take thypleasure and pastime in my dominion!" He thanked him and excusedhimself. then the two took horse and rode into the city and, whenthey were seated at their ease in the palace, the food trays wereset before them and they ate their sufficiency. After the meatswere removed and they had washed their hands, King Shahryarturned to his brother and said, "My mind is overcome withwonderment at thy condition. I was desirous to carry thee with meto the chase but I saw thee changed in hue, pale and wan to view,and in sore trouble of mind too. But now Alham dolillah glory beto God! I see thy natural colour hath returned to thy face andthat thou art again in the best of case. It was my belief thatthy sickness came of severance from thy family and friends, andabsence from capital and country, so I refrained from troublingthee with further questions. But now I beseech thee to expound tome the cause of thy complaint and thy change of colour, and toexplain the reason of thy recovery and the return to the ruddyhue of health which I am wont to view. So speak out and hidenaught!" When Shah Zaman heard this he bowed groundwards awhilehis head, then raised it and said, "I will tell thee what causedmy complaint and my loss of colour. but excuse my acquaintingthee with the cause of its return to me and the reason of mycomplete recovery: indeed I pray thee not to press me for areply." Said Shahryar, who was much surprised by these words,"Let me hear first what produced thy pallor and thy poorcondition." "Know, then, O my brother," rejoined Shah Zaman,"that when thou sentest thy Wazir with the invitation to placemyself between thy hands, I made ready and marched out of mycity. but presently I minded me having left behind me in thepalace a string of jewels intended as a gift to thee. I returnedfor it alone and found my wife on my carpet bed and in the armsof a hideous black cook. So I slew the twain and came to thee,yet my thoughts brooded over this business and I lost my bloomand became weak. But excuse me if I still refuse to tell theewhat was the reason of my complexion returning." Shahryar shookhis head, marvelling with extreme marvel, and with the fire ofwrath flaming up from his heart, he cried, "Indeed, the malice ofwoman is mighty!" Then he took refuge from them with Allah andsaid, "In very sooth, O my brother, thou hast escaped many anevil by putting thy wife to death, and right excusable werethy wrath and grief for such mishap which never yet befel crownedKing like thee. By Allah, had the case been mine, I would nothave been satisfied without slaying a thousand women and that waymadness lies! But now praise be to Allah who hath tempered tothee thy tribulation, and needs must thou acquaint me with thatwhich so suddenly restored to thee complexion and health, andexplain to me what causeth this concealment." "O King of the Age,again I pray thee excuse my so doing!" "Nay, but thou must." "Ifear, O my brother, lest the recital cause thee more anger andsorrow than afflicted me." "That were but a better reason," quothShahryar, "for telling me the whole history, and I conjure theeby Allah not to keep back aught from me." Thereupon Shah Zamantold him all he had seen, from commencement to con elusion,ending with these words, "When I beheld thy calamity and thetreason of thy wife, O my brother, and I resected that thou artin years my senior and in sovereignty my superior, mine ownsorrow was belittled by the comparison, and my mind recoveredtone and temper: so throwing off melancholy and despondency, Iwas able to eat and drink and sleep, and thus I speedily regainedhealth and strength. Such is the truth and the whole truth." WhenKing Shahryar heard this he waxed wroth with exceeding wrath, andrage was like to strangle him. but presently he recovered himselfand said, "O my brother, I would not give thee the lie in thismatter, but I cannot credit it till I see it with mine own eyes.""An thou wouldst look upon thy calamity," quoth Shah Zaman, "riseat once and make ready again for hunting and coursing. andthen hide thyself with me, so shalt thou witness it and thineeyes shall verify it." "True," quoth the King. whereupon he letmake proclamation of his in tent to travel, and the troops andtents fared forth without the city, camping within sight, andShahryar sallied out with them and took seat amidmost his host,bidding the slaves admit no man to him. When night came on hesummoned his Wazir and said to him, "Sit thou in my stead and letnone wot of my absence till the term of three days." Then thebrothers disguised themselves and returned by night with allsecrecy to the palace, where they passed the dark hours: and atdawn they seated themselves at the lattice overlooking thepleasure grounds, when presently the Queen and her handmaids cameout as before, and passing under the windows made for thefountain. Here they stripped, ten of them being men to ten women,and the King's wife cried out, "Where art thou, O Saeed?" Thehideous blackamoor dropped from the tree straightway. and,rushing into her arms without stay or delay, cried out, "I amSa'ad al Din Saood!" The lady laughed heartily, and allfell to satisfying their lusts, and remained so occupied for acouple of hours, when the white slaves rose up from thehandmaidens' breasts and the blackamoor dismounted from theQueen's bosom: then they went into the basin and, afterperforming the Ghusl, or complete ablution, donned their dressesand retired as they had done before. When King Shahryar saw thisinfamy of his wife and concubines he became as one distraught andhe cried out, "Only in utter solitude can man be safe from thedoings of this vile world! By Allah, life is naught but one greatwrong." Presently he added, "Do not thwart me, O my brother, inwhat I propose." and the other answered, "I will not." So hesaid, "Let us up as we are and depart forthright hence, for wehave no concern with Kingship, and let us overwander Allah'searth, worshipping the Almighty till we find some one to whom thelike calamity hath happened. and if we find none then will deathbe more welcome to us than life." So the two brothers issued froma second private postern of the palace. and they never stintedwayfaring by day and by night, until they reached a tree a middleof a meadow hard by a spring of sweet water on the shore of thesalt sea. Both drank of it and sat down to take their rest. andwhen an hour of the day had gone by: lo! they heard a mighty roarand uproar in the middle of the main as though the heavens werefalling upon the earth. and the sea brake with waves before them,and from it towered a black pillar, which grew and grew till itrose skywards and began making for that meadow. Seeing it, theywaxed fearful exceedingly and climbed to the top of the tree,which was a lofty. whence they gazed to see what might be thematter. And behold, it was a Jinni, huge of height andburly of breast and bulk, broad of brow and black of blee,bearing on his head a coffer of crystal. He strode to land,wading through the deep, and coming to the tree whereupon werethe two Kings, seated himself beneath it. He then set down thecoffer on its bottom and out it drew a casket, with sevenpadlocks of steel, which he unlocked with seven keys of steel hetook from beside his thigh, and out of it a young lady to comewas seen, white skinned and of winsomest mien, of stature fineand thin, and bright as though a moon of the fourteenth night shehad been, or the sun raining lively sheen. Even so the poetUtayyah hath excellently said: She rose like the morn as she shone through the night And shegilded the grove with her gracious sight:From her radiance the sun taketh increase when She unveilethand shameth the moonshine bright.Bow down all beings between her hands As she showeth charmswith her veil undight.And she foodeth cities with torrent tears When sheflasheth her look of levee light.The Jinni seated her under the tree by his side and looking ather said, "O choicest love of this heart of mine! O dame ofnoblest line, whom I snatched away on thy bride night that nonemight prevent me taking thy maidenhead or tumble thee before Idid, and whom none save myself hath loved or hath enjoyed: O mysweetheart! I would fief sleep a little while." He then laid hishead upon the lady's thighs. and, stretching out his legs whichextended down to the sea, slept and snored and sparked like theroll of thunder. Presently she raised her head towards the treetop and saw the two Kings perched near the summit. then shesoftly lifted off her lap the Jinni's pate which she was tired ofsupporting and placed it upon the ground. then standing uprightunder the tree signed to the Kings, "Come ye down, ye two, andfear naught from this Ifrit." They were in a terriblefright when they found that she had seen them and answered her inthe same manner, "Allah upon thee and by thy modesty, Olady, excuse us from coming down!" But she rejoined by saying,"Allah upon you both, that ye come down forthright, and if yecome not, I will rouse upon you my husband, this Ifrit, and heshall do you to die by the illest of deaths." and she continuedmaking signals to them. So, being afraid, they came down to herand she rose be fore them and said, "Stroke me a strong stroke,without stay or delay, otherwise will I arouse and set upon youthis Ifrit who shall slay you straightway." They said to her, "Oour lady, we conjure thee by Allah, let us off this work, for weare fugitives from such and in extreme dread and terror of thisthy husband. How then can we do it in such a way as thoudesires"?" "Leave this talk: it needs must be so." quoth she, andshe swore them by Him who raised the skies on high,without prop or pillar, that, if they worked not her will, shewould cause them to be slain and cast into the sea. Whereupon outof fear King Shahryar said to King Shah Zaman, "O my brother, dothou what she biddeth thee do." but he replied, "I will not do ittill thou do it before I do." And they began disputing aboutfuttering her. Then quoth she to the twain, "How is it I see youdisputing and demurring. if ye do not come forward like men anddo the deed of kind ye two, I will arouse upon you the If rit."At this, by reason of their sore dread of the Jinni, both did byher what she bade them do. and, when they had dismounted fromher, she said, "Well done!" She then took from her pocket a purseand drew out a knotted string, whereon were strung five hundredand seventy seal rings, and asked, "Know ye what bethese?" They answered her saying, "We know not!" Then quoth she."These be the signets of five hundred and seventy men who haveall futtered me upon the horns of this foul, this foolish, thisfilthy Ifrit. so give me also your two seal rings, ye pair ofbrothers." When they had drawn their two rings from their handsand given them to her, she said to them, "Of a truth this If ritbore me off on my bride night, and put me into a casket and setthe casket in a coffer and to the coffer he affixed seven strongpadlocks of steel and deposited me on the deep bottom of the seathat raves, dashing and clashing with waves. and guarded me sothat I might remain chaste and honest, quotha! none save himselfmight have connexion with me. But I have lain under as many of mykind as I please, and this wretched Jinni wotteth not that Destiny may not be averted nor hindered by aught, and that whatsowoman willeth the same she fulfilleth however man nilleth. Evenso saith one of them. Rely not on women. Trust not to their hearts,Whose joys and whose sorrows Are hung to their parts!Lying love they will swear thee Whence guile ne'er departs:Take Yusuf for sample 'Ware sleights and 'ware smarts!Iblis ousted Adam (See ye not?) thro' their arts.And another saith: Stint thy blame, man! 'Twill drive to a passion without bound.My fault is not so heavy as fault in it hast found.If true lover I become, then to me there cometh not Save whathappened unto many in the bygone stound.For wonderful is he and right worthy of our praise Who fromwiles of female wits kept him safe and kept him sound."Hearing these words they marvelled with exceeding marvel, and shewent from them to the Ifrit and, taking up his head on her thighas before, said to them softly, "Now wend your ways and bearyourselves beyond the bounds of his malice." So they fared forthsaying either to other, "Allah! Allah!" and, "There be no Majestyand there be no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great. andwith Him we seek refuge from women's malice and sleight, for of atruth it hath no mate in might. Consider, O my brother, the waysof this marvellous lady with an Ifrit who is so much morepowerful than we are. Now since there hath hap pened to him agreater mishap than that which befel us and which should bear usabundant consolation, so return we to our countries and capitals,and let us decide never to intermarry with womankind andpresently we will show them what will be our action." Thereuponthey rode back to the tents of King Shahryar, which they reachedon the morning of the third day. and, having mustered the Wazirsand Emirs, the Chamberlains and high officials, he gave a robe ofhonour to his Viceroy and issued orders for an immediate returnto the city. There he sat him upon his throne and sending for theChief Minister, the father of the two damsels who (Inshallah!)will presently be mentioned, he said, "I command thee to take mywife and smite her to death. for she hath broken her plight andher faith." So he carried her to the place of execution and didher die. Then King Shahryar took brand in hand and repairing tothe Serraglio slew all the concubines and their Mamelukes.He also sware himself by a binding oath that whatever wife hemarried he would abate her maidenhead at night and slay her nextmorning to make sure of his honour. "For," said he, "there neverwas nor is there one chaste woman upon face of earth." Then ShahZaman prayed for permission to fare homewards. and he went forthequipped and escorted and travelled till he reached his owncountry. Mean while Shahryar commanded his Wazir to bring him thebride of the night that he might go in to her. so he produced amost beautiful girl, the daughter of one of the Emirs and theKing went in unto her at eventide and when morning dawned he badehis Minister strike off her head. and the Wazir did accordinglyfor fear of the Sultan. On this wise he continued for the spaceof three years. marrying a maiden every night and killing her thenext morning, till folk raised an outcry against him and cursedhim, praying Allah utterly to destroy him and his rule. and womenmade an uproar and mothers wept and parents fled with theirdaughters till there remained not in the city a young person fitfor carnal copulation. Presently the King ordered his ChiefWazir, the same who was charged with the executions, to bring hima virgin as was his wont. and the Minister went forth andsearched and found none. so he returned home in sorrow andanxiety fearing for his life from the King. Now he had twodaughters, Shahrazad and Dunyazad hight, of whom the elderhad perused the books, annals and legends of preceding Kings, andthe stories, examples and instances of by gone men and things.indeed it was said that she had collected a thousand books ofhistories relating to antique races and departed rulers. She hadperused the works of the poets and knew them by heart. she hadstudied philosophy and the sciences, arts and accomplish meets.and she was pleasant and polite, wise and witty, well read andwell bred. Now on that day she said to her father, "Why do I seethee thus changed and laden with cark and care? Concerning thismatter quoth one of the poets. Tell whoso hath sorrow Grief never shall last:E'en as joy hath no morrow So woe shall go past."When the Wazir heard from his daughter these words he related toher, from first to last, all that had happened between him andthe King. Thereupon said she, "By Allah, O my father, how longshall this slaughter of women endure? Shall I tell thee what isin my mind in order to save both sides from destruction?" "Sayon, O my daughter," quoth he, and quoth she, "I wish thou wouldstgive me in marriage to this King Shahryar. either I shall live orI shall be a ransom for the virgin daughters of Moslems and thecause of their deliverance from his hands and thine.""Allah upon thee!" cried he in wrath exceeding that lacked nofeeding, "O scanty of wit, expose not thy life to such peril! Howdurst thou address me in words so wide from wisdom and un farfrom foolishness? Know that one who lacketh experience in worldlymatters readily falleth into misfortune. and whoso considerethnot the end keepeth not the world to friend, and the vulgar say: I was lying at mine ease: nought but my officiousness brought meunease." "Needs must thou," she broke in, "make me a doer of thisgood deed, and let him kill me an he will: I shall only die aransom for others." "O my daughter," asked he, "and how shallthat profit thee when thou shalt have thrown away thy life?" andshe answered, "O my father it must be, come of it what will!" TheWazir was again moved to fury and blamed and reproached her,ending with, "In very deed I fear lest the same befal thee whichbefel the Bull and the Ass with the Husband man." "And what,"asked she, "befel them, O my father?" Whereupon the Wazir beganthe