Popular Romances of the West of EnglandThis story is told by Mr. T. Q. Couch, as an example of the folk lore of aCornish village, in "Notes and Queries," under the name of "Coleman Gray":There is a farmhouse of some antiquity with which my family have a closeconnection. and it is this circumstance, more than any other, that hasrendered this tradition concerning it more interesting to us, and betterremembered than many other equally romantic and authentic.Close to this house, one day, a little miserable looking bantling wasdiscovered alone, unknown, and incapable of making its wants understood.It was instantly remembered by the finder, that this was the way in whichthe piskies were accustomed to deal with those infants of their race forwhom they sought human protection. and it would have been an awfulcircumstance if such a one were not received by the individual sovisited. The anger of the piskies would be certain, and some direfulcalamity must be the result. whereas, a kind welcome would probably beattended with great good fortune.The miserable plight of this stranger, therefore, attracted attention andsympathy. The little unconscious one was admitted as one of the family.Its health was speedily restored, and its renewed strength, activity,intelligence, and good humour, caused it to become a general favourite.It is true the stranger was often found to indulge in odd freaks. butthis was accounted for by a recollection of its pedigree, which was notdoubted to be of the piskie order. So the family prospered, and hadbanished the thought that the foundling would ever leave them.There was to the front door of this house, a hatch, which is a half door,that is kept closed when the whole door behind it is open, and it thenserves as a guard against the intrusion of dogs, hogs, and ducks, whileair and light are freely admitted. This little being was one day leaningover the top of this hatch, and looking wistfully outward, when a clearvoice was heard to proceed from a neighbouring part of the townplace,calling "Coleman Gray, Coleman Gray!"The piskie immediately started up, and with a sudden laugh clapped itshands, exclaiming, "Aha! my daddy is come!" It was gone in a moment,never to be seen again.