Know then, O Commander of the Faithful, that my first brother, AlBakbuk, the Prattler, is a Hunchback who took to tailoring inBaghdad, and he used to sew in a shop hired from a man of muchwealth, who dwelt over the shop, and there was also aflour mill in the basement. One day as my brother, the Hunchback,was sitting in his shop a tailoring, he chanced to raise his headand saw a lady like the rising full moon at a balconied window ofhis landlord's house, engaged in looking out at the passersby. When my brother beheld her, his heart was taken withlove of her and he passed his whole day gazing at her andneglected his tailoring till eventide. Next morning he opened hisshop and sat him down to sew. but, as often as he stitched astitch, he looked to the window and saw her as before. and hispassion and infatuation for her increased. On the third day as hewas sitting in his usual place gazing on her, she caught sight ofhim and, perceiving that he had been captivated with love of her,laughed in his face and he smiled back at her. Then shedisappeared and presently sent her slave girl to him with abundle containing a piece of red cowered silk. The handmaidaccosted him and said, "My lady salameth to thee and desireththee, of thy skill and good will, to fashion for her a shift ofthis piece and to sew it handsomely with thy best sewing. Hereplied, "Hearkening and obedience". and shaped for her a chemiseand finished sewing it the same day. When the morning morrowedthe girl came back and said to him, "My lady salameth to thee andasks how thou hast passed yesternight. for she hath not tastedsleep by reason of her heart being taken up with thee. Then shelaid before him a piece of yellow satin and said, My lady biddeththee cut her two pair of petticoat trousers out of this piece andsew them this very day." "Hearkening and obedience!' replied he,"greet her for me with many greetings and say to her, Thy slaveis obedient to thine order. so command him as thou wilt." Then heapplied himself to cutting out and worked hard at sewing thetrousers. and after an hour the lady appeared at the lattice andsaluted him by signs, now casting down her eyes, then smiling inhis face, and he began to assure himself that he would soon makea conquest. She did not let him stir till he had finished the twopair of trousers, when she with drew and sent the handmaid towhom he delivered them. and she took them and went her ways. Whenit was night, he threw himself on his carpet bed, and lay tossingabout from side to side till morning, when he rose and sat downin his place. Presently the damsel came to him and said, "Mymaster calleth for thee." Hearing these words he feared withexceeding fear. but the slave girl, seeing his affright, said tohim, "No evil is meant to thee: naught but good awaiteth thee. Mylady would have thee make acquaintance with my lord." So mybrother the tailor, rejoicing with great joy, went with her. andwhen he came into the presence of his landlord, the lady'shusband, he kissed the ground before him, and the master of thehouse returned his greeting and gave him a great piece of linensaying, "Shape me shirts out of this stuff and sew them well."and my brother answered, "To hear is to obey." Thereupon he fellto work at once, snipping, shaping and sewing till he hadfinished twenty shirts by supper time, without stopping to tastefood. The house master asked him, "How much the wage for this?".and he answered, "Twenty dirhams." So the gentleman cried out tothe slave girl, "Bring me twenty dirhams," and my brother spakenot a word. but the lady signed, "Take nothing from him.'whereupon my brother said, "By Allah I will take naught from thyhand. And he carried off his tailor's gear and returned to hisshop, although he was destitute even to a red cent. Thenhe applied himself to do their work. eating, in his zeal anddiligence, but a bit of bread and drinking only a little waterfor three days. At the end of this time came the handmaid andsaid to him, "What hast thou done?" Quoth he, "They arefinished," and carried the shirts to the lady's husband, whowould have paid him his hire: but he said, "I will take nothing,"for fear of her and, returning to his shop, passed the nightwithout sleep because of his hunger. Now the dame had informedher husband how the case stood (my brother knowing naught ofthis). and the two had agreed to make him tailor for nothing, thebetter to mock and laugh at him. Next morning he went to hisshop, and, as he sat there, the handmaid came to him and said,"Speak with my master." So he accompanied her to the husband whosaid to him, "I wish thee to cut out for me five long sleevedrobes." and took the stuff andwent away. Then he sewed them and carried them to the gentleman,who praised his sewing and offered him a purse of silver. He putout his hand to take it, but the lady signed to him from behindher husband not to do so, and he replied, "O my lord, there is nohurry, we have time enough for this." Then he went forth from thehouse meaner and meeker than a donkey, for verily five thingswere gathered together in him viz.: love, beggary, hunger,nakedness and hard labour. Nevertheless he heartened himself withthe hope of gaining the lady's favours. When he had made an endof all their jobs, they played him another trick and married himto their slave girl. but, on the night when he thought to go into her, they said to him, "Lie this night in the mill. and tomorrow all will go well." My brother concluded that there wassome good cause for this and nighted alone in the mill. Now thehusband had set on the miller to make the tailor turn the mill:so when night was half spent the man came in to him and began tosay, "This bull of ours hath be come useless and standeth stillinstead of going round: he will not turn the mill this night, andyet we have great store of corn to be ground. However, I'll yokehim perforce and make him finish grinding it before morning, asthe folk are impatient for their flour." So he filled the hopperswith grain and, going up to my brother with a rope in his hand,tied it round his neck and said to him, "Gee up! Round with themill! thou, O bull, wouldst do nothing but grub and stale anddung!" Then he took a whip and laid it on the shoulders andcalves of my brother, who began to howl and bellow. but none cameto help him. and he was forced to grind the wheat till hard upondawn, when the house master came in and, seeing my brother stilltethered to the yoke and the man flogging him, went away. At daybreak the miller returned home and left him still yoked and halfdead. and soon after in came the slave girl who unbound him, andsaid to him, "I and my lady are right sorry for what hathhappened and we have borne thy grief with thee." But he had notongue wherewith to answer her from excess of beating and millturning. Then he retired to his lodging and behold, the clerk whohad drawn up the marriage deed came to him and salutedhim, saying, "Allah give thee long life! May thy espousal beblessed! This face telleth of pleasant doings and dalliance andkissing and clipping from dusk to dawn." "Allah grant the liar nopeace, O thou thousandfold cuckold!", my brother replied, "byAllah, I did nothing but turn the mill in the place of the bullall night till morning!" "Tell me thy tale," quoth he. and mybrother recounted what had befallen him and he said, "Thy staragrees not with her star. but an thou wilt I can alter thecontract for thee," adding, "'Ware lest another cheat be not instore for thee." And my brother answered him, "See if thou havenot another contrivance." Then the clerk left him and he sat inhis shop, looking for some one to bring him a job whereby hemight earn his day's bread. Presently the handmaid came to himand said, "Speak with my lady." "Begone, O my good girl," repliedhe, "there shall be no more dealings between me and thy lady."The handmaid returned to her mistress and told her what mybrother had said and presently she put her head out of thewindow, weeping and saying, "Why, O my beloved, are there to beno more dealings 'twixt me and thee?" But he made her no answer.Then she wept and conjured him, swearing that all which hadbefallen him in the mill was not sanctioned by her and that shewas innocent of the whole matter. When he looked upon her beautyand loveliness and heard the sweetness of her speech, the sorrowwhich had possessed him passed from his heart. he accepted herexcuse and he rejoiced in her sight. So he saluted her and talkedwith her and sat tailoring awhile, after which the handmaid cameto him and said, "My mistress greeteth thee and informeth theethat her husband purposeth to lie abroad this night in the houseof some intimate friends of his. so, when he is gone, do thoucome to us and spend the night with my lady in delightsomestjoyance till the morning." Now her husband had asked her, "Howshall we manage to turn him away from thee?". and she answered,"Leave me to play him another trick and make him a laughing stockfor all the town." But my brother knew naught of the malice ofwomen. As soon as it was dusk, the slave girl came to him andcarried him to the house, and when the lady saw him she said tohim, "By Allah, O my lord, I have been longing exceedingly forthee." "By Allah," cried he, "kiss me quick before thou give meaught else." Hardly had he spoken, when the lady'shusband came in from the next room and seized him,saying, "By Allah, I will not let thee go, till I deliver thee tothe chief of the town watch." My brother humbled himself to him.but he would not listen to him and carried him before the Prefectwho gave him an hundred lashes with a whip and, mounting him on acamel, promenaded him round about the city, whilst the guardsproclaimed aloud, "This is his reward who violateth the Harims ofhonourable men!" Moreover, he fell off the camel and broke hisleg and so became lame. Then the Prefect banished him from thecity. and he went forth unknowing whither he should wend. but Iheard of him and fearing for him went out after him and broughthim back secretly to the city and restored him to health and tookhim into my house where he still liveth. The Caliph laughed at mystory and said, "Thou hast done well, O Samit, O Silent Man, Ospare of speech!". and he bade me take a present and go away. ButI said, "I will accept naught of thee except I tell thee whatbefell all my other brothers. and do not think me a man of manywords." So the Caliph gave ear to