ChildrenLong, long ago, before the oldest stork was young and big deer and littlefawns were very many in the Dutch forests, there was a pond, famous forits fish, which lay in the very heart of Holland, with woods nearby.Hunters came with their bows and arrows to hunt the stags. Or, out of thebright waters, boys and men in the sunshine drew out the fish with shiningscales, or lured the trout, with fly bait, from their hiding places. Inthose days the fish pond was called the Vijver, and the woods where thedeer ran, Rensselaer, or the Deer's Lair.So, because the forests of oak, and beech, and alder trees were so fine,and game on land and in water so plentiful, the lord of the country camehere and built his castle. He made a hedge around his estate, so that thepeople called the place the Count's Hedge. or, as we say, The Hague.Even today, within the beautiful city, the forests, with their grand oldtrees, still remain, and the fish pond, called the Vijver, is there yet,with its swans. On the little island, the fluffy, downy cygnets are bornand grow to be big birds, with long necks, bent like an arch. In anotherpart of the town, also, with their trees for nesting, and their pond forwading, are children of the same storks, whose fathers and mothers livedthere before America was discovered.By and by, many people of rank and fortune came to The Hague, for itssociety. They built their grand houses at the slope of the hill, not faraway from the Vijver, and in time a city grew up.It was a fine sight to see the lords and ladies riding out from the castleinto the country. The cavalcade was very splendid, when they went hawking.There were pretty women on horseback, and gentlemen in velvet clothes,with feathers in their hats, and the horses seemed proud to bear them. Thefalconers followed on foot, with the hunting birds perched on a hoop,which the man inside the circle carried round him. Each falcon had on alittle cap or hood, which was fastened over its head. When this was takenoff, it flew high up into the air, on its hunt for the big and littlebirds, which it brought down for its masters. There were also men withdogs, to beat the reeds and bushes, and drive the smaller birds fromshelter. The huntsmen were armed with spears, lest a wild boar, or bear,should rush out and attack them. It was always a merry day, when a hawkingparty, in their fine clothes and gay trappings, started out.There were huts, as well as palaces, and poor people, also, at The Hague.Among these, was a widow, whose twin babies were left without anything toeat   for her husband and their father had been killed in the war. Havingno money to buy a cradle, and her babies being too young to be left alone,she put the pair of little folks on her back and went out to beg.Now there was a fine lady, a Countess, who lived with her husband, theCount, near the Vijver. She was childless and very jealous of other womenwho were mothers and had children playing around them. On this day, whenthe beggar woman, with her two babies on her back, came along, the grandlady was in an unusually bad temper. For all her pretty clothes, she wasnot a person of fine manners. Indeed, she often acted more like a snarlingdog, ready to snap at any one who should speak to her. Although she hadcradles and nurses and lovely baby clothes all ready, there was no baby.This spoiled her disposition, so that her husband and the servants couldhardly live with her.One day, after dinner, when there had been everything good to eat anddrink on her table, and plenty of it, the Countess went out to walk infront of her house. It was the third day of January, but the weather wasmild. The beggar woman, with her two babies on her back and their armsround her neck, crying with hunger, came trudging along. She went into thegarden and asked the Countess for food or an alms. She expected surely, atleast a slice of bread, a cup of milk, or a small coin.But the Countess was rude to her and denied her both food and money. Sheeven burst into a bad temper, and reviled the woman for having twochildren, instead of one."Where did you get those brats? They are not yours. You just brought themhere to play on my feelings and excite my jealousy. Be gone!"But the poor woman kept her temper. She begged piteously and said: "Forthe love of Heaven, feed my babies, even if you will not feed me.""No! they are not yours. You're a cheat," said the fine lady, nursing herrage."Indeed, Madame, they are both my children and born on one day. They haveone father, but he is dead. He was killed in the war, while serving hisgrace, your husband.""Don't tell me such a story," snapped back the Countess, now in a fury. "Idon't believe that any one, man or woman, could have two children at once.Away with you," and she seized a stick to drive off the poor woman.Now, it was the turn of the beggar to answer back. Both had lost theirtemper, and the two angry women seemed more like she bears robbed of theirwhelps."Heaven punish you, you wicked, cruel, cold hearted woman," cried themother. Her two babies were almost choking her in their eagerness forfood. Yet their cries never moved the rich lady, who had bread and goodthings to spare, while their poor parent had not a drop of milk to givethem. The Countess now called her men servants to drive the beggar away.This they did, most brutally. They pushed the poor woman outside thegarden gate and closed it behind her. As she turned away, the poor mother,taking each of her children by its back, one in each hand, held them upbefore the grand lady and cried out loudly, so that all heard her:"May you have as many children as there are days in the year."Now with all her wrath burning in her breast, what the beggar woman reallymeant was this: It was the third of January, and so there were but threedays in the year, so far. She intended to say that, instead of having tocare for two children, the Countess might have the trouble of rearingthree, and all born on the same day.But the fine lady, in her mansion, cared nothing for the beggar woman'swords. Why should she? She had her lordly husband, who was a count, and heowned thousands of acres. Besides, she possessed vast riches. In her greathouse, were ten men servants and thirty one maid servants, together withher rich furniture, and fine clothes and jewels. The lofty brick church,to which she went on Sundays, was hung with the coats of arms of herfamous ancestors. The stone floor, with its great slabs, was so grandlycarved with the crests and heraldry of her family, that to walk over thesewas like climbing a mountain, or tramping across a ploughed field. Commonfolks had to be careful, lest they should stumble over the bosses andknobs of the carved tombs. A long train of her servants, and tenants onthe farms followed her, when she went to worship. Inside the church, thelord and lady sat, in high seats, on velvet cushions and under a canopy.By the time summer had come, according to the fashion in all good Dutchfamilies, all sorts of pretty baby clothes were made ready. There weresoft, warm, swaddling bands, tiny socks, and long white linen dresses. Abaptismal blanket, covered with silk, was made for the christening, anddaintily embroidered. Plenty of lace, and pink and blue ribbons   pinkfor a girl and blue for a boy   were kept at hand. And, because theremight be twins, a double set of garments was provided, besides babybathtubs and all sorts of nice things for the little stranger or strangers  whether one or two   to come. Even the names were chosen   one for aboy and the other for a girl. Would it be Wilhelm or Wilhelmina?It was real fun to think over the names, but it was hard to choose out ofso many. At last, the Countess crossed off all but forty six. or thefollowing. nearly every girl's name ending in je , as in our"Polly," "Sallie."GirlsBoysMagtelCatharynaGerritGysbertNelletjAlidaCornelisJauszeZeliaAnnatjeVolkertMyndertJannetjeChristinaKilianAdrianZaraKatrinaJohannesJoachimMarytjeBethjePetrusArendtWillemtjeEvaBarentDirckGeertruyDirkjeWesselNikolaasPetronellaMaykenHendrikStaatsMargrietaHillekeTeunisGozenJosinaBethyWouterEvertWillemtjeJapikBut before the sun set on the expected day, it was neither one boy nor onegirl, nor both. nor were all the forty six names chosen sufficient. forthe beggar woman's wish had come true, in a way not expected. There wereas many as, and no fewer children than, there were days in the year. and,since this was leap year, there were three hundred and sixty six littlefolks in the house. so that other names, besides the forty six, had to beused.Yet none of these wee creatures was bigger than a mouse. Beginning atdaylight, one after another appeared   first a girl and then a boy. sothat after the forty eighth, the nurse was at her wit's end, to give themnames. It was not possible to keep the little babies apart. The thirty oneservant maids of the mansion were all called in to help in sorting out thegirls from the boys. but soon it seemed hopeless to try to pick out Peterfrom Henry, or Catalina from Annetje. After an hour or two spent at thetask, and others coming along, the women found that it was useless to tryany longer. It was found that little Piet, Jan and Klaas, Hank, Douw andJapik, among the boys. and Molly, Mayka, Lena, Elsje, Annatje and Mariewere getting all mixed up. So they gave up the attempt in despair.Besides, the supply of pink and blue ribbons had given out long before,after the first dozen or so were born. As for the, baby clothes madeready, they were of no use, for all the garments were too big. In one ofthe long dresses, tied up like a bag, one might possibly, with stuffing,have put the whole family of three hundred and sixty six brothers andsisters.It was not likely such small fry of human beings could live long. So, thegood Bishop Guy, of Utrecht, when he heard that the beggar woman's cursehad come true, in so unexpected a manner, ordered that the babies shouldbe all baptized at once. The Count, who was strict in his ideas of bothcustom and church law, insisted on it too.So nothing would do but to carry the tiny infants to church. How to getthem there, was a question. The whole house had been rummaged to providethings to carry the little folks in: but the supply of trays, and mincepie dishes, and crocks, was exhausted at the three hundred and sixtiethbaby. So there was left only a Turk's Head, or round glazed earthen dish,fluted and curved, which looked like the turban of a Turk. Hence its name.Into this, the last batch of babies, or extra six girls, were stowed.Curiously enough, number 366 was an inch taller than the others. To thirtyhouse maids was given a tray, for each was to carry twelve manikins, andone the last six, in the Turk's Head. Instead of rich silk blankets awooden tray, and no clothes on, must suffice.In the Groote Kerk, or Great Church, the Bishop was waiting, with hisassistants, holding brass basins full of holy water, for the christening.All the town, including the dogs, were out to see what was going on. Manyboys and girls climbed up on the roofs of the one story houses, or in thetrees to get a better view of the curious procession   the like of whichhad never been seen in The Hague before. Neither has anything like it everbeen seen since.So the parade began. First went the Count, with his captains and thetrumpeters, blowing their trumpets. These were followed by themen servants, all dressed in their best Sunday clothes, who had the crestand arms of their master, the Count, on their backs and breasts. Then cameon the company of thirty one maids, each one carrying a tray, on whichwere twelve manikins, or minikins. Twenty of these trays were round andmade of wood, lined with velvet, smooth and soft. but ten were ofearthenware, oblong in shape, like a manger. In these, every year, werebaked the Christmas pies.At first, all went on finely, for the outdoor air seemed to put the babiesasleep and there was no crying. But no sooner were they inside the church,than about two hundred of the brats began wailing and whimpering. Prettysoon, they set up such a squall that the Count felt ashamed of his progenyand the Bishop looked very unhappy.To make matters worse, one of the maids, although warned of the danger,stumbled over the helmet of an old crusader, carved in stone, that rosesome six inches or so above the floor. In a moment, she fell and laysprawling, spilling out at least a dozen babies. "Heilige Mayke" (HolyMary!), she cried, as she rolled over. "Have I killed them?"Happily the wee ones were thrown against the long trained gown of an oldlady walking directly in front of her, so that they were unhurt. They wereeasily picked up and laid on the tray again, and once more the linestarted.Happily the Bishop had been notified that he would not have to call outthe names of all the infants, that is, three hundred and sixty six. forthis would have kept him at the solemn business all day long. It had beenarranged that, instead of any on the list of the chosen forty six, to beso named, all the boys should be called John, and all the girls Elizabeth.or, in Dutch, Jan and Lisbet, or Lizbethje. Yet even to say "John" onehundred and eighty times, and "Lisbet" one hundred and eighty six times,nearly tired the old gentleman to death, for he was fat and slow.So, after the first six trays full of wee folks had been sprinkled, one ata time, the Bishop decided to "asperse" them, that is, shake, from a mopor brush, the holy water, on a tray full of babies at one time. So hecalled for the "aspersorium." Then, clipping this in the basin of holywater, he scattered the drops over the wee folk, until all, even the sixextra girl babies in the Turk's Head, were sprinkled. Probably, becausethe Bishop thought a Turk was next door to a heathen, he dropped morewater than usual on these last six, until the young ones squealed lustilywith the cold. It was noted, on the contrary, that the little folks in themince pie dishes were gently handled, as if the good man had visions ofChristmas coming and the good things on the table.Yet it was evident that such tiny people could not bear what healthybabies of full size would think nothing of. Whether it was because of thedamp weather, or the cold air in the brick church, or too much excitement,or because there were not three hundred and sixty six nurses, or milkbottles ready, it came to pass that every one of the wee creatures diedwhen the sun went down.Just where they were buried is not told, but, for hundreds of years, therewas, in one of The Hague churches, a monument in honor of these littlefolks, who lived but a day. It was graven with portraits in stone of theCount and Countess and told of their children, as many as the days of theyear. Nearby, were hung up the two basins, in which the holy water, usedby the Bishop, in sprinkling the babies, was held. The year, month and dayof the wonderful event were also engraved. Many and many people fromvarious lands came to visit the tomb. The guide books spoke of it, andtender women wept, as they thought how three hundred and sixty six littlecradles, in the Count's castle, would have looked, had each baby lived.