In the days long gone by there lived in Helgonabacken   the Hills ofHelgona   near Lund, a family of giants who one day heard, with greatanxiety and consternation, that a holy man had come into the country, fromSaxony, to build a church to the White Christ.While Laurentius, such was the holy man's name, was selecting his siteand laying out the plans for the temple, there stood at his side, one day,none other than Finn, the giant of Helgonabacken, who thus addressed him,"Truly the White Christ is a God worthy of such a temple, and I will buildit for you, if, when it is finished, you will tell me what my name is.But, mark well my condition, oh, wise man: If you cannot tell me, you mustgive to my little ones the two small torches   the sun and the moon  that travel yonder over heaven's expanse."Now, it is so ordered in the giant world that it is of vital importancethe name of the giant should be kept from mankind. Should it be revealed,the giant must die, and man is freed from all obligations that may havebeen imposed upon him by compact with the giant.Laurentius could not reasonably promise so much, but anxious to havethe church built, he offered, instead, his eyes, trusting to fortune todiscover to him the giant's name before the completion of the church. Thegiant, satisfied with the bargain, entered at once upon his work, and withwonderful rapidity the church grew upward. Soon there remained nothingmore to complete it than to set one stone on the tower.The day preceding that on which it was expected this last stone wouldbe put in place, Laurentius stood on Helgonabacken in deep melancholy. Itseemed inevitable that he must lose his eyes, and that he was now takinghis last look at the light of heaven and all that had made the world andlife so attractive to him. Next day all would be darkness and sorrow.During these gloomy reflections he heard the cry of a child from withinthe hill, and the voice of the giant mother endeavoring to quiet it with asong, in which he clearly distinguished the words, "Silent, silent, littleson of mine. Morning will bring your father Finn, with either moon and sunor the priest Laurentius' eyes."Beside himself with joy, Laurentius hastened to the church. "Come down,Finn!" he cried. "The stone that now remains we ourselves can set. Comedown, Finn, for we no longer need your help!"Foaming with rage, the giant rushed from the tower to the ground, andlaying hold of one of the pillars tried to pull the church down. At thisinstant his wife with her child joined him. She, too, grasped a pillar andwould help her husband in the work of destruction, but just as thebuilding was tottering to the point of falling, they were both turned tostones, and there they lie today, each embracing a pillar.