I was living in Baghdad, in the reign of the Prince of the FaithfulEl Muntair bi llah, who loved the poor and indigent, andassociated with the learned and virtuous. and it happened, one day, thathe was incensed against ten persons, in consequence of which, he orderedthe chief magistrate of Baghdad to bring them to him in a boat. I sawthem, and I said within myself, These persons have assembled for nothingbut an entertainment, and, I suppose, will pass their day in this boateating and drinking. and none shall be their companion butmyself: so I embarked, and mixed myself among them. and whenthey had landed on the opposite bank, the guards of the Walee came withchains, and put them upon their necks, and put a chain upon my neckalso. Now this, O people, is it not a proof of my generosity, and of mypaucity of speech? For I determined not to speak. They took us,therefore, all together, in chains, and placed us before El Muntairbi llah, the Prince of the Faithful. whereupon he gave orders to strikeoff the heads of the ten. and the executioner struck off the heads ofthe ten, and I remained. The Khaleefeh then turning his eyes, andbeholding me, said to the executioner, Wherefore dost thou not strikeoff the heads of all the ten? He answered, I have beheaded every one ofthe ten. I do not think, rejoined the Khaleefeh, that thou hastbeheaded more than nine. and this who is before me is the tenth. But theexecutioner replied, By thy beneficence, they are ten. Count them, saidthe Khaleefeh. And they counted them. and lo, they were ten. TheKhaleefeh then looked towards me, and said, What hath induced thee tobe silent on this occasion. and how hast thou become included among themen of blood? And when I heard the address of the Prince of theFaithful, I said to him, Know, O Prince of the Faithful, that I am thesheykh E amit (the silent): I possess, of science, a large stock. andas to the gravity of my understanding, and the quickness of myapprehension, and the paucity of my speech, they are unbounded: my tradeis that of a barber. and yesterday, early in the morning, I saw theseten men proceeding to the boat. whereupon I mixed myself with them, andembarked with them, thinking that they had met together for anentertainment. but soon it appeared that they were criminals. and theguards came to them, and put chains upon their necks, and upon my neckalso they put a chain. and from the excess of my generosity I wassilent, and spoke not: my speech was not heard on that occasion, onaccount of the excess of my generosity. and they proceeded with us untilthey stationed us before thee, and thou gavest the order to strike offthe heads of the ten, and I remained before the executioner, andacquainted you not with my case. Was not this great generosity whichcompelled me to accompany them to slaughter? But throughout my life Ihave acted in this excellent manner.When the Khaleefeh heard my words, and knew that I was of a verygenerous character, and of few words, and not inclined to impertinenceas this young man, whom I delivered from horrors, asserteth, he said,Hast thou brothers? I answered, Yes: six. And are thy six brothers,said he, like thyself, distinguished by science and knowledge, andpaucity of speech? I answered, They lived not so as to be like me: thouhast disparaged me by thy supposition, O Prince of the Faithful, and itis not proper that thou shouldst compare my brothers to me. for throughthe abundance of their speech, and the smallness of their generousqualities, each of them experienced a defect: the first was lame. thesecond, deprived of many of his teeth. the third, blind. the fourth,one eyed. the fifth, cropped of his ears. and the sixth had both hislips cut off: and think not, O Prince of the Faithful, that Iam a man of many words: nay, I must prove to thee that I am of a moregenerous character than they. and each of them met with a particularadventure, in consequence of which he experienced a defect: if thouplease, I will relate their stories to thee.