Once upon a time, and a very good time it was, though it wasn't in mytime, nor in your time, nor anyone else's time, there was a girl whosemother had died, and her father had married again. And her stepmotherhated her because she was more beautiful than herself, and she was verycruel to her. She used to make her do all the servant's work, and neverlet her have any peace.At last, one day, the stepmother thought to get rid of her altogether. soshe handed her a sieve and said to her, "Go, fill it at the Well of theWorld's End and bring it home to me full, or woe betide you" For shethought she would never be able to find the Well of the World's End, and,if she did, how could she bring home a sieve full of water?Well, the girl started off, and asked everyone she met to tell her wherewas the Well of the World's End. But nobody knew, and she didn't know whatto do, when a queer little old woman, all bent double, told her where itwas, and how she could get to it. So she did what the old woman told her,and at last arrived at the Well of the World's End.But when she dipped the sieve in the cold, cold water, it all ran outagain. She tried and she tried again, but every time it was the same. andat last she sate down and cried as if her heart would break. Suddenly sheheard a croaking voice, and she looked up and saw a great frog with goggleeyes looking at her and speaking to her."What's the matter, dearie?" it said."Oh, dear, oh dear," she said, "my stepmother has sent me all this longway to fill this sieve with water from the Well of the World's End, and Ican't fill it no how at all.""Well," said the frog, " if you promise me to do whatever I bid you for awhole night long, I'll tell you how to fill it."So the girl agreed, and then the frog said:Stop it with moss and daub it with clay,And then it will carry the water away.and then it gave a hop, skip and jump, and went flop into the Well of theWorld's End.So the girl looked about for some moss, and lined the bottom of the sievewith it, and over that she put some clay, and then she dipped it onceagain into the Well of the World's End. and this time, the water didn'trun out, and she turned to go away.Just then the frog popped up its head out of the Well of the World's End,and said, "Remember your promise.""All right," said the girl. for thought she, "What harm can a frog do me?"So she went back to her stepmother, and brought the sieve full of waterfrom the Well of the World's End. The stepmother was fine and angry, butshe said nothing at all.That very evening they heard something tap tapping at the door low down,and a voice cried out:Open the door, my hinny, my heart,Open the door, my own darling.Mind you the words that you and I spoke,Down in the meadow, at the World's End Well."Whatever can that be?" cried out the stepmother, and the girl had to tellher all about it, and what she had promised the frog."Girls must keep their promises," said the stepmother. "Go and open thedoor this instant." For she was glad the girl would have to obey a nastyfrog.So the girl went and opened the door, and there was the frog from the Wellof the World's End. And it hopped, and it skipped, and it jumped, till itreached the girl, and then it said:Lift me to your knee, my hinny, my heart.Lift me to your knee, my own darling.Remember the words you and I spoke,Down in the meadow by the World's End Well.But the girl didn't like to, till her stepmother said, "Lift it up thisinstant, you hussy! Girls must keep their promises!"So at last she lifted the frog up on to her lap, and it lay there for atime, till at last it said:Give me some supper, my hinny, my heart,Give me some supper, my darling.Remember the words you and I spake,In the meadow, by the Well of the World's End.Well, she didn't mind doing that, so she got it a bowl of milk and bread,and fed it well. And when the frog had finished, it said:Go with me to bed, my hinny, my heart,Go with me to bed, my own darling.Mind you the words you spake to me,Down by the cold well, so weary.But that the girl wouldn't do, till her stepmother said, "Do what youpromised, girl. girls must keep their promises. Do what you're bid, or outyou go, you and your froggie."So the girl took the frog with her to bed, and kept it as far away fromher as she could. Well, just as the day was beginning to break what shouldthe frog say but:Chop off my head, my hinny, my heart,Chop off my head, my own darling.Remember the promise you made to me,Down by the cold well so weary.At first the girl wouldn't, for she thought of what the frog had done forher at the Well of the World's End. But when the frog said the words overagain, she went and took an axe and chopped off its head, and lo! andbehold, there stood before her a handsome young prince, who told her thathe had been enchanted by a wicked magician, and he could never beunspelled till some girl would do his bidding for a whole night, and chopoff his head at the end of it.The stepmother was that surprised when she found the young prince insteadof the nasty frog, and she wasn't best pleased, you may be sure, when theprince told her that he was going to marry her stepdaughter because shehad unspelled him. So they were married and went away to live in thecastle of the king, his father, and all the stepmother had to console herwas, that it was all through her that her stepdaughter was married to aprince.