Three impostors came to a king, and told him they were cloth weavers,and could fabricate a cloth of so peculiara nature that a legitimate son of his father couldsee the cloth. but if he were illegitimate, thoughbelieved to be legitimate, he could not see it.Now the king was much pleased at this,thinking that by this means he would be able todistinguish the men in his kingdom who were legitimatesons of their supposed fathers from thosewho were not, and so be enabled to increase histreasures, for among the Moors only legitimatechildren inherit their father's property. and forthis end he ordered a palace to be appropriated tothe manufacture of this cloth. And these men, inorder to convince him that they had no intentionof deceiving him, agreed to be shut up in this palaceuntil the cloth was manufactured, which satisfiedthe king.When they were supplied with a large quantityof gold, silver, silk, and many other things, theyentered the palace, and, putting their looms inorder, gave it to be understood that they wereworking all day at the cloth.After some days, one of them came to the kingand told him the cloth was commenced, that it wasthe most curious thing in the world, describing thedesign and construction. he then prayed the kingto favor them with a visit, but begged he wouldcome alone.The king was much pleased, butwishing to have the opinion of some one first, sentthe lord chamberlain to see it, in order to know ifthey were deceiving him.When the lord chamberlainsaw the workmen, and heard all they had tosay, he dared not admit he could not see the cloth,and when he returned to the king he stated that hehad seen it. the king sent yet another, who gavethe same report. When they whom he had sentdeclared that they had seen the cloth he determinedto go himself.On entering the palace and seeing the men atwork, who began to describe the texture and relatethe origin of the invention as also the design andcolor, in which they all appeared to agree, althoughin reality they were not working. when the kingsaw how they appeared to work, and heard thecharacter of the cloth so minutely described, andyet could not see it, although those he had sent hadseen it, he began to feel very uneasy, fearing hemight not be the son of the king, who was supposed to be his father, and that if he acknowledgedhe could not see the cloth he might lose his kingdom. under this impression he commenced praisingthe fabric, describing its peculiarities after themanner of the workmen.On the return to his palace he related to hispeople how good and marvelous was the cloth, yetat the same time suspected something wrong.At the end of two or three days the kingrequested his Alguacil(or officer of justice) to goand see the cloth. When the Alguacil entered andsaw the workmen, who, as before, described thefigures and pattern of the cloth, knowing that theking had been to see it, and yet could not see ithimself, he thought he certainly could not be thelegitimate son of his father, and therefore could notsee it. He, however, feared if he was to declare thathe could not see it he would lose his honorableposition. to avoid this mischance he commenced praising the cloth even more vehemently than the others.When the Alguacil returned to the king andtold him that he had seen the cloth, and that it wasthe most extraordinary production in the world, theking was much disconcerted. for he thought thatif the Alguacil had seen the cloth, which he wasunable to see, there could no longer be a doubt thathe was not the legitimate son of the king, as wasgenerally supposed, he therefore did not hesitate topraise the excellency of the cloth and the skill of the workmen who were able to make it.On another day he sent one of his councillors,and it happened to him as to the king and theothers of whom I have spoken. and in this mannerand for this reason they deceived the king andmany others, for no one dared to say he could notsee the cloth.Things went on thus until there came a greatfeast, when all requested the king to be dressed insome of the cloth. so the workmen, being ordered,brought some rolled up in a very fine linen and inquiredof the king how much of it he wished themto cut off. so the king gave orders how much andhow to make it up.Now when the clothes were made and the feastday had arrived the weavers brought them to theking, informing his majesty that his dress was madeof the cloth as he had directed, the king all thistime not daring to say he could not see it.When the king had professed to dress himselfin this suit he mounted on horseback and rode intothe city. but fortunately for him it was summertime. The people seeing his majesty come in thismanner were much surprised. but knowing thatthose who could not see this cloth would be consideredillegitimate sons of their fathers, kept theirsurprise to themselves, fearing the dishonor consequentupon such a declaration.Not so, however,with a negro, who happened to notice the kingthus equipped. for he, having nothing to lose, cameto him and said,"Sire, to me it matters not whoseson I am, therefore I tell you that you are ridingwithout any clothes."On this the king commencedbeating him, saying that he was not the legitimateson of his supposed father, and therefore it was thathe could not see the cloth.But no sooner had thenegro said this, than others were convinced of itstruth, and said the same. until, at last, the king and all with him lost their fear of declaring the truth,and saw through the trick of which these impostorshad made them the victims.When the weavers were sought for they were found to have fled, takingwith them all they had received from the king bytheir imposition.