There once lived a merchant whose name was Mark, and whom people called'Mark the Rich.' He was a very hard hearted man, for he could not bearpoor people, and if he caught sight of a beggar anywhere near his house,he would order the servants to drive him away, or would set the dogs athim.One day three very poor old men came begging to the door, and just ashe was going to let the fierce dogs loose on them, his little daughter,Anastasia, crept close up to him and said:'Dear daddy, let the poor old men sleep here to night, do to pleaseme.'Her father could not bear to refuse her, and the three beggars wereallowed to sleep in a loft, and at night, when everyone in the house wasfast asleep, little Anastasia got up, climbed up to the loft, and peepedin.The three old men stood in the middle of the loft, leaning on theirsticks, with their long grey beards flowing down over their hands, andwere talking together in low voices.'What news is there?' asked the eldest.'In the next village the peasant Ivan has just had his seventh son. Whatshall we name him, and what fortune shall we give him?' said the second.The third whispered, 'Call him Vassili, and give him all the property ofthe hard hearted man in whose loft we stand, and who wanted to drive usfrom his door.'After a little more talk the three made themselves ready and creptsoftly away.Anastasia, who had heard every word, ran straight to her father, andtold him all.Mark was very much surprised. he thought, and thought, and in themorning he drove to the next village to try and find out if such a childreally had been born. He went first to the priest, and asked him aboutthe children in his parish.'Yesterday,' said the priest, 'a boy was born in the poorest housein the village. I named the unlucky little thing "Vassili." He is theseventh son, and the eldest is only seven years old, and they hardlyhave a mouthful amongst them all. Who can be got to stand godfather tosuch a little beggar boy?'The merchant's heart beat fast, and his mind was full of bad thoughtsabout that poor little baby. He would be godfather himself, he said,and he ordered a fine christening feast. so the child was brought andchristened, and Mark was very friendly to its father. After the ceremonywas over he took Ivan aside and said:'Look here, my friend, you are a poor man. How can you afford to bringup the boy? Give him to me and I'll make something of him, and I'll giveyou a present of a thousand crowns. Is that a bargain?'Ivan scratched his head, and thought, and thought, and then he agreed.Mark counted out the money, wrapped the baby up in a fox skin, laidit in the sledge beside him, and drove back towards home. When he haddriven some miles he drew up, carried the child to the edge of a steepprecipice and threw it over, muttering, 'There, now try to take myproperty!'Very soon after this some foreign merchants travelled along that sameroad on the way to see Mark and to pay the twelve thousand crowns whichthey owed him.As they were passing near the precipice they heard a sound of crying,and on looking over they saw a little green meadow wedged in between twogreat heaps of snow, and on the meadow lay a baby amongst the flowers.The merchants picked up the child, wrapped it up carefully, and droveon. When they saw Mark they told him what a strange thing they hadfound. Mark guessed at once that the child must be his godson, asked tosee him, and said:'That's a nice little fellow. I should like to keep him. If you willmake him over to me, I will let you off your debt.'The merchants were very pleased to make so good a bargain, left thechild with Mark, and drove off.At night Mark took the child, put it in a barrel, fastened the lid tightdown, and threw it into the sea. The barrel floated away to a greatdistance, and at last it floated close up to a monastery. The monks werejust spreading out their nets to dry on the shore, when they heard thesound of crying. It seemed to come from the barrel which was bobbingabout near the water's edge. They drew it to land and opened it, andthere was a little child! When the abbot heard the news, he decided tobring up the boy, and named him 'Vassili.'The boy lived on with the monks, and grew up to be a clever, gentle, andhandsome young man. No one could read, write, or sing better than he,and he did everything so well that the abbot made him wardrobe keeper.Now, it happened about this time that the merchant, Mark, came to themonastery in the course of a journey. The monks were very polite to himand showed him their house and church and all they had. When he wentinto the church the choir was singing, and one voice was so clear andbeautiful, that he asked who it belonged to. Then the abbot told himof the wonderful way in which Vassili had come to them, and Mark sawclearly that this must be his godson whom he had twice tried to kill.He said to the abbot: 'I can't tell you how much I enjoy that youngman's singing. If he could only come to me I would make him overseer ofall my business. As you say, he is so good and clever. Do spare him tome. I will make his fortune, and will present your monastery with twentythousand crowns.'The abbot hesitated a good deal, but he consulted all the other monks,and at last they decided that they ought not to stand in the way ofVassili's good fortune.Then Mark wrote a letter to his wife and gave it to Vassili to taketo her, and this was what was in the letter: 'When the bearer of thisarrives, take him into the soap factory, and when you pass near thegreat boiler, push him in. If you don't obey my orders I shall be veryangry, for this young man is a bad fellow who is sure to ruin us all ifhe lives.'Vassili had a good voyage, and on landing set off on foot for Mark'shome. On the way he met three beggars, who asked him: 'Where are yougoing, Vassili?''I am going to the house of Mark the Merchant, and have a letter for hiswife,' replied Vassili.'Show us the letter.'Vassili handed them the letter. They blew on it and gave it back tohim, saying: 'Now go and give the letter to Mark's wife. You will not beforsaken.'Vassili reached the house and gave the letter. When the mistress readit she could hardly believe her eyes and called for her daughter. In theletter was written, quite plainly: 'When you receive this letter,get ready for a wedding, and let the bearer be married next day to mydaughter, Anastasia. If you don't obey my orders I shall be very angry.'Anastasia saw the bearer of the letter and he pleased her very much.They dressed Vassili in fine clothes and next day he was married toAnastasia.In due time, Mark returned from his travels. His wife, daughter, andson in law all went out to meet him. When Mark saw Vassili he flew intoa terrible rage with his wife. 'How dared you marry my daughter withoutmy consent?' he asked.'I only carried out your orders,' said she. 'Here is your letter.'Mark read it. It certainly was his handwriting, but by no means hiswishes.'Well,' thought he, 'you've escaped me three times, but I think I shallget the better of you now.' And he waited a month and was very kind andpleasant to his daughter and her husband.At the end of that time he said to Vassili one day, 'I want you to gofor me to my friend the Serpent King, in his beautiful country at theworld's end. Twelve years ago he built a castle on some land of mine. Iwant you to ask for the rent for those twelve years and also to find outfrom him what has become of my twelve ships which sailed for his countrythree years ago.'Vassili dared not disobey. He said good bye to his young wife, who criedbitterly at parting, hung a bag of biscuits over his shoulders, and setout.I really cannot tell you whether the journey was long or short. As hetramped along he suddenly heard a voice saying: 'Vassili! where are yougoing?'Vassili looked about him, and, seeing no one, called out: 'Who spoke tome?''I did. this old wide spreading oak. Tell me where you are going.''I am going to the Serpent King to receive twelve years' rent from him.''When the time comes, remember me and ask the king: "Rotten to theroots, half dead but still green, stands the old oak. Is it to standmuch longer on the earth?"'Vassili went on further. He came to a river and got into the ferryboat.The old ferryman asked: 'Are you going far, my friend?''I am going to the Serpent King.''Then think of me and say to the king: "For thirty years the ferrymanhas rowed to and fro. Will the tired old man have to row much longer?"''Very well,' said Vassili. 'I'll ask him.'And he walked on. In time he came to a narrow strait of the sea andacross it lay a great whale over whose back people walked and drove asif it had been a bridge or a road. As he stepped on it the whale said,'Do tell me where you are going.''I am going to the Serpent King.'And the whale begged: 'Think of me and say to the king: "The poor whalehas been lying three years across the strait, and men and horses havenearly trampled his back into his ribs. Is he to lie there much longer?"''I will remember,' said Vassili, and he went on.He walked, and walked, and walked, till he came to a great green meadow.In the meadow stood a large and splendid castle. Its white marble wallssparkled in the light, the roof was covered with mother o' pearl,which shone like a rainbow, and the sun glowed like fire on the crystalwindows. Vassili walked in, and went from one room to another astonishedat all the splendour he saw.When he reached the last room of all, he found a beautiful girl sittingon a bed.As soon as she saw him she said: 'Oh, Vassili, what brings you to thisaccursed place?'Vassili told her why he had come, and all he had seen and heard on theway.The girl said: 'You have not been sent here to collect rents, but foryour own destruction, and that the serpent may devour you.'She had not time to say more, when the whole castle shook, and arustling, hissing, groaning sound was heard. The girl quickly pushedVassili into a chest under the bed, locked it and whispered: 'Listen towhat the serpent and I talk about.'Then she rose up to receive the Serpent King.The monster rushed into the room, and threw itself panting on the bed,crying: 'I've flown half over the world. I'm tired, VERY tired, and wantto sleep scratch my head.'The beautiful girl sat down near him, stroking his hideous head, andsaid in a sweet coaxing voice: 'You know everything in the world. Afteryou left, I had such a wonderful dream. Will you tell me what it means?''Out with it then, quick! What was it?''I dreamt I was walking on a wide road, and an oak tree said to me: "Askthe king this: Rotten at the roots, half dead, and yet green stands theold oak. Is it to stand much longer on the earth?"''It must stand till some one comes and pushes it down with his foot.Then it will fall, and under its roots will be found more gold andsilver than even Mark the Rich has got.''Then I dreamt I came to a river, and the old ferryman said to me: "Forthirty year's the ferryman has rowed to and fro. Will the tired old manhave to row much longer?"''That depends on himself. If some one gets into the boat to be ferriedacross, the old man has only to push the boat off, and go his waywithout looking back. The man in the boat will then have to take hisplace.''And at last I dreamt that I was walking over a bridge made of a whale'sback, and the living bridge spoke to me and said: "Here have I beenstretched out these three years, and men and horses have trampled myback down into my ribs. Must I lie here much longer?"''He will have to lie there till he has thrown up the twelve ships ofMark the Rich which he swallowed. Then he may plunge back into the seaand heal his back.'And the Serpent King closed his eyes, turned round on his other side,and began to snore so loud that the windows rattled.In all haste the lovely girl helped Vassili out of the chest, and showedhim part of his way back. He thanked her very politely, and hurried off.When he reached the strait the whale asked: 'Have you thought of me?''Yes, as soon as I am on the other side I will tell you what you want toknow.'When he was on the other side Vassili said to the whale: 'Throw up thosetwelve ships of Mark's which you swallowed three years ago.'The great fish heaved itself up and threw up all the twelve ships andtheir crews. Then he shook himself for joy, and plunged into the sea.Vassili went on further till he reached the ferry, where the old manasked: 'Did you think of me?''Yes, and as soon as you have ferried me across I will tell you what youwant to know.'When they had crossed over, Vassili said: 'Let the next man who comesstay in the boat, but do you step on shore, push the boat off, and youwill be free, and the other man must take your place.Then Vassili went on further still, and soon came to the old oak tree,pushed it with his foot, and it fell over. There, at the roots, was moregold and silver than even Mark the Rich had.And now the twelve ships which the whale had thrown up came sailingalong and anchored close by. On the deck of the first ship stood thethree beggars whom Vassili had met formerly, and they said: 'Heaven hasblessed you, Vassili.' Then they vanished away and he never saw themagain.The sailors carried all the gold and silver into the ship, and then theyset sail for home with Vassili on board.Mark was more furious than ever. He had his horses harnessed and droveoff himself to see the Serpent King and to complain of the way in whichhe had been betrayed. When he reached the river he sprang into theferryboat. The ferryman, however, did not get in but pushed the boatoff....Vassili led a good and happy life with his dear wife, and his kindmother in law lived with them. He helped the poor and fed and clothedthe hungry and naked and all Mark's riches became his.For many years Mark has been ferrying people across the river. His faceis wrinkled, his hair and beard are snow white, and his eyes are dim.but still he rows on.(From the Serbian.)