In one of the glens of Cantire there lived a young and loving pair who were blessed with one child, a fine healthy lad. They strove hard to provide themselves with the necessaries of life. but their croft was sterile and their crops scanty: and, after many bitter and serious consultations, it was agreed that they should separate for a season, with the hope to make their circumstances better, and that the wife should shift for herself and the lad, and that the husband should travel in search of a situation where he would have food and wages.Their separation was painful. but they comforted themselves with the promise to be true to each other, and to meet again in better circumstances. The husband had an aversion to become a soldier. so he sailed to Greenock, and from thence made his way into England, and traveled on until he met with a worthy farmer, with whom he agreed to work.The bargain was made by signs, for the highlander had no English. but after a time they came to understand each other quite well, and the highlander learned a little English. His master respected his servant very much. and the servant was steady, honest, and industrious in his service. Time passed on, year after year. and every year the highlander left his wages in his master's hands, until he had a pretty round sum to take.At length he prepared to return home to Cantire. and his master laid down all his wages on the table, and said, "Whether will you lift all your money, or take three advices in its place?"The highlander replied, "Sir, your advices were always good to me, and I think it better to take them than to lift the money."So the master took away the money, and gave him these three advices:I. When you are going home keep on the high way, and take no by way.II. Lodge not in any house in which you see an old man and his young wife.III. Do nothing rashly until you have well considered what you will do.Besides these three advices, the English farmer gave the highlander sufficient money to carry him home. and he also gave him a loaf, which he was not to break until he could eat it with his wife and son. Then they bade farewell.After traveling several miles the highlander overtook a peddler, who was on his way to Scotland. so they agreed to keep company with one another, and to lodge at a certain town that same night: but as they were traveling quite agreeably, they came upon a by way which was a great length shorter than the high road, and the peddler proposed that they should take it. but the highlander would not, for he thought of his master's first advice.Then the peddler said that he was tired with his burthen, and that he would take the short by way, and wait until his companion had come forward. So they went each their way, and the highlander kept to the high way until he had come to the place appointed. There he found the peddler weeping, and without his pack, for he had been robbed in the by way. So this was the benefit that the highlander got by following the first advice of the English farmer.Then they walked on together to the town, the peddler weeping for the loss of his pack, and saying that he knew where they would get good lodgings. But, when they got to the house, the highlander saw an old man and a young wife. so he would not lodge there, for he remembered his master's second advice.But the peddler remained in the house, and the highlander crept into a coal house in the entry. At midnight he felt some one coming in at the door, and, after remaining a short time, going out again. but, as he passed him in the dark, the highlander, with his knife, cut a bit from the wing of his coat, and kept it.In the morning the cry of murder was heard, and it was found that the old man who kept the house had been killed. The authorities of the town came and saw the dead body, and found the peddler sleeping in a room. and when they searched his pockets, there was a bloody knife found in them. and as he had no pack or money, they concluded he was a false peddler, and had murdered the old man to get his wealth. So the peddler was apprehended and condemned to be hanged. and the highlander accompanied him to the scaffold, and observed among the crowd a young man walking with the young wife of the murdered man. and the young man's coat was of the same color as the swatch he had cut from it in the coal house in the entry."Hang me!" said the highlander, "if you pair are not the murderers."So they were apprehended, and acknowledged their crime, and were hanged. and the peddler was set at liberty. And this was the benefit that was got from the High lander following the second advice of the English farmer.It was midnight when the highlander got back home. He rapped at the door, and his wife got up, and recognized her husband, and lighted a candle. Upon that, the highlander saw a fine young man lying in the bed. and he was purposing to step up and kill him, apprehensive that another had taken his place.But he thought on his master's advice, and said, "Who is yon man?""It is our son!" said his wife. "He came home from his service last evening, and slept in that bed.""I should have slain him but for the master!" said the highlander.So this was the benefit he got from following the third advice of the English farmer.The highlander's joy was now at its height. His son arose from the bed. more peats were put on, and a large fire kindled. and the highlander then sought a knife to cut the loaf that he had carried all the way from England. With the first slice he found silver money. and when he had cut all the loaf, he found therein all the wages that would have been paid him by his master. So the highlander got the money and the three advices also. and with the money he stocked a farm and lived comfortably till the end of his days.