Once it happened that in the night an ordinary soldier deserted. He came to a great forest, and in the middle of the woods he met a sorceress."You," she said, "come with me."She led him to a hollow tree, a thick one."Climb this tree," she said. "Higher up there is a hole. Climb down into it. At the bottom you'll find a room where a dog is sitting on a chest. You must pick him up and set him on the floor. You can take as much money as you want from the chest, but then set the dog back where you found him. On the table there is a tinderbox. Put it in your pocket as well."He did what she had told him to do and climbed down into the hole. Entering the room, he saw the dog seated on the chest. Its eyes were as large as a fist."See here," said the soldier, "you are a good fellow. You won't do anything to me!"He lifted the dog into his arms then set him on the floor. He opened the chest, which was filled with copper coins, and he filled his pockets with them. Then he closed the chest and set the dog back on it.He went into the second room, where there also was a light burning. He again saw a dog sitting on a chest, as in the first room, and this dog had eyes just as large as the first one."See here," he said, "you won't do anything to me. The first one didn't do anything to me."He picked this one up as well and set him down away from the chest. He opened it, and it was filled with silver coins. He emptied out his pockets and filled them with the silver coins. Then he closed the chest and put the dog back on it.Then he went into the third room. There a dog was sitting on a chest as well, and he was as large as the first two."Oh," said the soldier, "I see that you three are good comrades. You won't do anything to me either."He picked him up and set him on the floor. This chest was filled with gold ducats. He emptied out the silver coins and filled his pockets with ducats. Then he picked up the dog, placed him back on the chest, then returned to the tree.When he had climbed halfway up, the old woman asked, "Do you have the tinderbox?"So he climbed back down, for he had left the tinderbox in the third room where he had filled his pockets with ducats. It was there on the table, and he put it into his pocket. He made his way back up the tree to the outside, but the old woman had disappeared. He never saw her again.He came to an inn where a baptism was being celebrated. There he took off his uniform and bought civilians' clothes for himself. He lived very well. He traveled about for nearly an entire year, finally coming to a royal city. There he took quarters in an inn.Gradually he spent all the money that he had. He owed large sum to the innkeeper.One night at bedtime he had nothing to strike a light with. There was usually something at hand, but not this time. He picked up the tinderbox, and struck one spark, when suddenly the three dogs appeared in his room."What is your wish?" they all three asked."Oh, I no longer have any money. Could you kindly bring me a chestful?"You can always have as much money as you want from us," said the dogs, and disappeared.Thus he outfitted himself as a cavalier.One day he was out walking when the princess came riding by in her carriage. That evening he struck a spark with his tinderbox, and the three dogs appeared."Give us a command!" they said."Bring the princess to me in her sleep!"In an instant she was there in his bed, and the dogs disappeared. Before daybreak he called the three dogs with his tinderbox, and they carried the princess back to her own bed. And thus he had her brought to him every night for two weeks.Then she said to her father, the king, "For two weeks now I have been with this man every night at the inn."The king summoned the soldier and asked the princess if he were the man.She said, "Yes, he's the one.""How can you take my child to bed with you every night?" asked the king."Because she gives me pleasure," said the soldier.The king had him thrown into prison, where he stayed for eight days with only bread and water. He was sentenced to die on the gallows. On the ninth day he was brought to a room in the castle where he was put on display for three days. Unfortunately he did not have his tinderbox with him, so he could not help himself. Happily, on the second day a servant from the inn where he had been sleeping came to get a look at him.The soldier said to him, "You, bring my tinderbox to me. It is in the pocket of the coat hanging on the wall."The servant returned with the tinderbox, and the soldier said to him, "You can have the chest filled with gold and everything else that is in the room."On the third day the king called up three hundred men who surrounded the soldier then took him to the gallows.Arriving there, the soldier said to the king, "Every condemned person is granted three last wishes."Then he reached into his pocket and rubbed against the tinderbox. The three dogs were suddenly there.The soldier said, "Take them and tear them apart." And they tore the three hundred soldiers to pieces.The king begged for mercy, asking the soldier to spare him. He said, "I give you my princess in marriage, and you can become king as well."Three days later they celebrated their wedding, and the three dogs sat at the table next to the soldier. Each of the dogs had a napkin, a fork, and a knife, just like the humans. After the meal the three dogs told him to call on them whenever he might need them. Then they disappeared. They were always available to him and helped him both in war and in peace.