PeahensOnce upon a time there lived a king who had three sons. Now, before theking's palace grew a golden apple tree, which in one and the same nightblossomed, bore fruit, and lost all its fruit, though no one could tellwho took the apples. One day the king, speaking to his eldest son, said,"I should like to know who takes the fruit from our apple tree!"And the son said, "I will keep guard tonight, and will see who gathersthe apples."So when the evening came he went and laid himself down, under the appletree, upon the ground to watch. Just, however, as the apples ripened, hefell asleep, and when he awoke in the morning, there was not a single oneleft on the tree. Whereupon he went and told his father what had happened.Then the second son offered to keep watch by the tree, but he had nobetter success than his eldest brother.So the turn came to the king's youngest son to keep guard. He made hispreparations, brought his bed under the tree, and immediately went tosleep. Before midnight he awoke and looked up at the tree, and saw how theapples ripened, and how the whole palace was lit up by their shining.At that minute nine peahens flew towards the tree, and eight of themsettled on its branches, but the ninth alighted near him and turnedinstantly into a beautiful girl   so beautiful, indeed, that the wholekingdom could not produce one who could in any way compare with her.She stayed, conversing kindly with him, till after midnight, thenthanking him for the golden apples, she prepared to depart. But, as hebegged she would leave him one, she gave him two, one for himself and onefor the king his father. Then the girl turned again into a peahen, andflew away with the other eight. Next morning, the king's son took the twoapples to his father, and the king was much pleased, and praised his son.When the evening came, the king's youngest son took his place againunder the apple tree to keep guard over it. He again conversed as he haddone the night before with the beautiful girl, and brought to his father,the next morning, two apples as before.But, after he had succeeded so well several nights, his two elderbrothers grew envious because he had been able to do what they could not.At length they found an old woman, who promised to discover how theyoungest brother had succeeded in saving the two apples. So, as theevening came, the old woman stole softly under the bed which stood underthe apple tree, and hid herself. And after a while, came also the king'sson, and laid himself down as usual to sleep. When it was near midnightthe nine peahens flew up as before, and eight of them settled on thebranches, and the ninth stood by his bed, and turned into a most beautifulgirl.Then the old woman slowly took hold of one of the girl's curls, and cutit off, and the girl immediately rose up, changed again into a peahen andflew away, and the other peahens followed her, and so they alldisappeared.Then the king's son jumped up, and cried out, "What is that?" and,looking under the bed, he saw the old woman, and drew her out. Nextmorning he order her to be tied to a horse's tail, and so torn to pieces.But the peahens never came back, so the king's son was very sad for a longtime, and wept at his loss.At length he resolved to go and look after his peahen. resolving neverto come back again unless he should find her. When he told the king hisfather of his intention, the king begged him not do go away, and told himthat he would find him another beautiful girl, and that he might chooseout of the whole kingdom.But all the king's persuasions were useless, so his son went into theworld   taking only one servant to serve him   to search everywhere forhis peahen.After many travels he came one day to a lake. Now by the lake stood alarge and beautiful palace. In the palace lived an old woman as queen, andwith the queen lived a girl, her daughter. He said to the old woman, "Forheaven's sake, grandmother, do you know anything about nine goldenpeahens?"And the old woman answered, "Oh, my son, I know all about them. Theycome every midday to bathe in the lake. But what do you want with them?Let them be. Think nothing about them. Here is my daughter. Such abeautiful girl! And such an heiress! All my wealth will remain to you ifyou marry her."But he, burning with desire to see the peahens, would not listen towhat the old woman spoke about her daughter.Next morning, when day dawned, the prince prepared to go down to thelake to wait for the peahens. Then the old queen bribed the servant andgave him a little pair of bellows, and said, "Do you see these bellows?When you come to the lake you must blow secretly with them behind hisneck, and then he will fall asleep, and not be able to speak to thepeahens."The mischievous servant did as the old woman told him. When he wentwith his master down to the lake, he took occasion to blow with thebellows behind his neck, and the poor prince fell asleep just as though hewere dead.Shortly after, the nine peahens came flying, and eight of them alightedby the lake, but the ninth flew towards him as he sat on horseback, andcaressed him, and tried to awaken him. "Awake my darling! Awake, my heart!Awake, my soul!"But for all that he knew nothing, just as if he were dead.After they had bathed, all the peahens flew away together, and afterthey were gone the prince woke up, and said to his servant, "What hashappened? Did they not come?"The servant told him they had been there, and that eight of them hadbathed, but the ninth had sat by him on his horse, and caressed and triedto awaken him. Then the king's son was so angry that he almost killedhimself in his rage.Next morning he went down again to the shore to wait for the peahens,and rode about a long time till the servant again found an opportunity ofblowing with the bellows behind his neck, so that he again fell asleep asthough dead. Hardly had he fallen asleep before the nine peahens cameflying, and eight of them alighted by the water, but the ninth settleddown by the side of his horse and caressed him, and cried out to awakenhim, "Arise, my darling! Arise, my heart! Arise my soul!"But it was of no use. The prince slept on as if he were dead. Then shesaid to the servant, "Tell your master, tomorrow he can see us here again,but nevermore."With these words the peahens flew away. Immediately after, the king'sson woke up and asked his servant, "Have they not been here?"And the man answered, "Yes, they have been, and say that you can seethem again tomorrow, at this place, but after that they will not returnagain."When the unhappy prince heard that, he knew not what to do withhimself, and in his great trouble and misery tore the hair from his head.The third day he went down again to the shore, but, fearing to fallasleep, instead of riding slowly, galloped along the shore. His servant,however, found an opportunity of blowing with the bellows behind his neck,and again the prince fell asleep.A moment after came the nine peahens, and the eight alighted on thelake and the ninth by him on his horse, and sought to awaken him,caressing him. "Arise, my darling! Arise, my heart! Arise, my soul!"But it was of no use. He slept on as if dead. Then the peahen said tothe servant, "When your master awakens tell him he ought to strike off thehead of the nail from the lower part, and then he will find me."Thereupon all the peahens fled away. Immediately the king's son awokeand said to his servant, "Have they been here?"And the servant answered, "They have been, and the one which alightedon your horse, ordered me to tell you to strike off the head of the nailfrom the lower part, and then you will find her."When the prince heard that, he drew his sword and cut off his servant'shead.After that he traveled alone about the world, and, after longtraveling, came to a mountain and remained all night there with a hermit,whom he asked if he knew anything about nine golden peahens.The hermit said, "Eh! My son, you are lucky. God has led you in theright path. From this place it is only a half a day's walk. But you mustgo straight on, then you will come to a large gate, which you must passthrough. And, after that, you must keep always to the right hand, and soyou will come to the peahens' city, and there find their palace."So next morning the king's son arose, and prepared to go. He thankedthe hermit, and went as he had told him. After a while he came to thegreat gate, and, having passed it, turned to the right, so that at middayhe saw the city, and beholding how white it shone, rejoiced very much.When he came into the city he found the palace where lived the ninegolden peahens. But at the gate he was stopped by the guard, who demandedwho he was, and whence he came. After he had answered these questions, theguards went to announce him to the queen.When the queen heard who he was, she came running out to the gate andtook him by the hand to lead him into the palace. She was a young andbeautiful maiden, and so there was a great rejoicing when, after a fewdays, he married her and remained there with her.One day, some time after their marriage, the queen went out to walk,and the king's son remained in the palace. Before going out, however, thequeen gave him the keys of twelve cellars, telling him, "You may go downinto all the cellars except the twelfth   that must on no account open,or it will cost you your head."She then went away. The king's son whilst remaining in the palace beganto wonder what there could be in the twelfth cellar, and soon commencedopening one cellar after the other.When he came to the twelfth he would not at first open it, but againbegan to wonder very much why he was forbidden to go into it. "What can bein this cellar?" he exclaimed to himself.At last he opened it. In the middle of the cellar lay a big barrel withan open bung hole, but bound fast round with three iron hoops. Out of thebarrel came a voice, saying, "For God's sake, my brother, I am dying withthirst. Please give me a cup of water!"Then the king's son took a cup and filled it with water, and emptied itinto the barrel. Immediately he had done so, one of the hoops burstasunder.Again came the voice from the barrel, "For God's sake, my brother, I amdying of thirst. Please give me a cup of water!"The king's son again filled the cup, and took it, and emptied it intothe barrel, and instantly another hoop burst asunder.The third time the voice came out of the barrel, "For God's sake, mybrother, I am dying of thirst. Please give me a cup of water!"The king's son again took the cup and filled it, and poured the waterinto the barrel, and the third hoop burst. Then the barrel fell to pieces,and a dragon flew out of the cellar, and caught the queen on the road andcarried her away.Then the servant, who went out with the queen, came back quickly, andtold the king's son what had happened, and the poor prince knew not whatto do with himself, so desperate was he, and full of self reproaches. Atlength, however, he resolved to set out and travel through the world insearch of her.After long journeying, one day he came to a lake, and near it, in alittle hole, he saw a little fish jumping about. When the fish saw theking's son, she began to beg pitifully, "For God's sake, be my brother,and throw me into the water. Some day I may be of use to you, so take nowa little scale from me, and when you need me, rub it gently."Then the king's son lifted the little fish from the hole and threw herinto the water, after he had taken one small scale, which he wrapped upcarefully in a handkerchief.Some time afterwards, as he traveled about the world, he came upon afox, caught in an iron trap. When the fox saw the prince, he spoke, "InGod's name, be a brother to me, and help me to get out of this trap. Oneday you will need me, so take just one hair from my tail, and when youwant me, rub it gently."Then the king's son took a hair from the tail of the fox, and let himfree.Again, as he crossed a mountain, he found a wolf fast in a trap. andwhen the wolf saw him, it spoke, "Be a brother to me. In God's name, setme free, and one day I will help you. Only take a hair from me, and whenyou need me, rub it gently."So he took a hair, and let the wolf free.After that, the king's son traveled about a very long time, till oneday he met a man, to whom he said, "For God's sake, brother, have you everheard anyone say where is the palace of the dragon king?"The man gave him very particular directions which way to take, and inwhat length of time he could get there. Then the king's son thanked himand continued his journey until he came to the city where the dragonlived.When there, he went into the palace and found therein his wife, andboth of them were exceedingly pleased to meet each other, and began totake counsel how they could escape. They resolved to run away, andprepared hastily for the journey. When all was ready they mounted onhorseback and galloped away.As soon as they were gone, the dragon came home, also on horseback,and, entering his palace, found that the queen had gone away. Then he saidto his horse, "What shall we do now? Shall we eat and drink, or go at onceafter them?"The horse answered, "Let us eat and drink first. We shall anyway catchthem. Do not be anxious."After the dragon had dined, he mounted his horse, and in a few momentscame up with the runaways. Then he took the queen from the king's son andsaid to him, "Go now, in God's name! This time I forgive you, because yougave me water in the cellar. But if your life is dear to you, do not comeback here any more!"The unhappy young prince went on his way a little, but could not longresist, so he came back next day to the dragon's palace, and found thequeen sitting alone and weeping.Then they began again to consult how they could get away. And theprince said, "When the dragon comes, ask him where he got that horse, andthen you will tell me so that I can look for such another one. perhaps inthis way we can escape."He then went away, lest the dragon should come and find him with thequeen.By and by the dragon came home, and the queen began to pet him, andspeak lovingly to him about many things, till at last she said, "Ah! whata fine horse you have! Where did you get such a splendid horse?"And he answered, "Eh! Where I got it everyone cannot get one! In suchand such a mountain lives an old woman who has twelve horses in herstable, and no one can say which is the finest, they are all so beautiful.But in one corner of the stable stands a horse which looks as if he wereleprous, but, in truth, he is the very best horse in the whole world. Heis the brother of my horse, and whoever gets him may ride to the sky. Butwhoever wishes to get a horse from that old woman, must serve her threedays and three nights. She has a mare with a foal, and whoever duringthree nights guards and keeps for her this mare and this foal, has a rightto claim the best horse from the old woman's stable. But whoever engagesto keep watch over the mare and does not, must lose his head!"Next day, when the dragon went out, the king's son came, and the queentold him all she had learned from the dragon. Then the king's son wentaway to the mountain and found the old woman, and entered her house,greeting, "God help you too, my son! What do you wish?""I should like to serve you," said the king's son. Then the old womansaid, "Well, my son, if you keep my mare safe for three days and threenights, I will give you the best horse, and you can choose him yourself.But if you do not keep the mare safe, you shall lose your head."Then she led him into the courtyard, where all around stakes wereranged. Each of them had on it a man's head, except one stake, which hadno head on it, and shouted incessantly, "Oh, grandmother, give me a head!"The old woman showed all this to the prince, and said, "Look here! Allthese were heads of those who tried to keep my mare, and they have losttheir heads for their pains!"But the prince was not a bit afraid, so he stayed to serve the oldwoman. When the evening came he mounted the mare and rode her into thefield, and the foal followed. He sat still on her back, having made up hismind not to dismount, that he might be sure of her. But before midnight heslumbered a little, and when he awoke he found himself sitting on a railand holding the bridle in his hand.Then he was greatly alarmed, and went instantly to look about to findthe mare, and whilst looking for her, he came to a piece of water. When hesaw the water he remembered the little fish, and took the scale from thehandkerchief and rubbed it a little. Then immediately the little fishappeared and said, "What is the matter, my half brother?"And he replied, "The mare of the old woman ran away whilst under mycharge, and now I do not know where she is!"And the fish answered, "Here she is, turned to a fish, and the foal toa smaller one. But strike once upon the water with the bridle and cry out,'Hey! mare of the old woman!'"The prince did as he was told, and immediately the mare came, with thefoal, out of the water to the shore. Then he put on her the bridle andmounted and rode away to the old woman's house, and the foal followed.When he got there the old woman gave him his breakfast. She, however, tookthe mare into the stable and beat her with a poker, saying, "Why did younot go down among the fishes, you cursed mare?"And the mare answered, "I have been down to the fishes, but the fishare his friends, and they told him about me."Then the old woman said, "Then go among the foxes!"When evening came the king's son mounted the mare and rode to thefield, and the foal followed the mare. Again he sat on the mare's backuntil near midnight, when he fell asleep as before. When he awoke, hefound himself riding on the rail and holding the bridle in his hand.So he was much frightened, and went to look after the mare. As he went,he remembered the words the old woman had said to the mare, and he tookfrom the handkerchief the fox's hair and rubbed it a little between hisfingers. All at once the fox stood before him, and asked, "What is thematter, half brother?"And he said, "The old woman's mare has run away, and I do not knowwhere she can be."Then the fox answered, "Here she is with us. She has turned into a fox,and the foal into a cub. But strike once with the bridle on the earth andcry out, 'Hey! you old woman's mare!'"So the king's son struck with the bridle on the earth and cried, "Hey!old woman's mare!" and the mare came and stood, with her foal, near him.He put on the bridle, and mounted and rode off home, and the foalfollowed the mare. When he arrived the old woman gave him his breakfast,but took the mare into the stable and beat her with the poker, crying, "Tothe foxes, cursed one! To the foxes!"And the mare answered, "I have been with the foxes, but they are hisfriends, and told him I was there!"Then the old woman cried, "If that is so, you must go among thewolves!"When it grew dark again, the king's son mounted the mare and rode outto the field, and the foal galloped by the side of the mare. Again he satstill on the mare's back till about midnight, when he grew very sleepy andfell into a slumber, as on the former evenings, and when he awoke he foundhimself riding on the rail, holding the bridle in his hand, just asbefore.Then, as before, he went in a hurry to look after the mare. As he went,he remembered the words the old woman had said to the mare, and took thewolf's hair from the handkerchief and rubbed it a little. Then the wolfcame up to him and asked, "What is the matter, half brother?"And he answered, "The old woman's mare has run away, and I cannot tellwhere she is."The wolf said, "Here she is with us. She has turned herself into awolf, and the foal into a wolf's cub. Strike once with the bridle on theearth and cry out, 'Hey! old woman's mare!'"And the king's son did so, and instantly the mare came again and stoodwith the foal beside him. So he bridled her, and galloped home, and thefoal followed. When he arrived the old woman gave him his breakfast, butshe led the mare into the stable and beat her with the poker, crying, "Tothe wolves, I said, miserable one!"And the mare answered, "I have been to the wolves, but they are hisfriends, and told him all about me!"Then the old woman came out of the stable, and the king's son said toher, "Eh! grandmother, I have served you honestly. Now give me what youpromised me."And the old woman answered, "My son, what is promised must befulfilled. So look here. Here are the twelve horses. Choose which youlike!"And the prince said, "Why should I be too particular? Give me only thatleprous horse in the corner! Fine horses are not fitting for me!"But the old woman tried to persuade him to choose another horse,saying, "How can you be so foolish as to choose that leprous thing whilstthere are such very fine horses here?"But he remained firm by his first choice, and said to the old woman,"You ought to give me which I choose, for so you promised."So, when the old woman found she could not make him change his mind,she gave him the scabby horse, and he took leave of her, and went away,leading the horse by the halter.When he came to a forest he curried and rubbed down the horse, when itshone as bright as gold. He then mounted, and the horse flew as quickly asa bird, and in a few seconds brought him to the dragon's palace.The king's son went in and said to the queen, "Get ready as soon aspossible!" She was soon ready, when they both mounted the horse, and begantheir journey home. Soon after, the dragon came home, and when he saw thequeen had disappeared, said to his horse, "What shall we do? Shall we eatand drink first, or shall we pursue them at once?"The horse answered, "Whether we eat and drink or not, it is all one. Weshall never reach them."When the dragon heard that, he got quickly on his horse and gallopedafter them. When they saw the dragon following them, they pushed onquicker, but their horse said, "Do not be afraid! There is no need to runaway."In a very few moments the dragon came very near to them, and his horsesaid to their horse, "For God's sake, my brother, wait a moment! I shallkill myself running after you!"Their horse answered, "Why are you so stupid as to carry that monster?Fling your heels up and throw him off, and come along with me!"When the dragon's horse heard that, he shook his head angrily and flunghis feet high in the air, so that the dragon fell off and brake in pieces,and his horse came up to them.Then the queen mounted him and returned with the king's son happily toher kingdom, where they reigned together in great prosperity until the dayof their death.