Long, long ago, in the days when there were giants in the land, two of them were turned out by the rest and forced to go and live by themselves, so they set to work to build themselves a hill to live in. In a very short time they had dug out the earth from the bed of the Severn, which runs in the trench they made to the present time, and with it they piled up the Wrekin, intending to make it their home.Those bare patches on the turf, between the Bladderstone and the top of the hill, are the marks of their feet, where from that day to this the grass has never grown. But they had not been there long before they quarrelled, and one of them struck at the other with his spade, but failed to hit him, and the spade descending to the ground cleft the solid rock and made the "Needle's Eye."Then they began to fight, and the giant with the spade (for they seem to have had only one between them   perhaps that was what they quarrelled about!) was getting the best of it at first, but a raven flew up and pecked at his eyes, and the pain made him shed such a mighty tear that it hollowed out the little basin in the rock which we call the Raven's Bowl, or sometimes the Cuckoo's Cup, which has never been dry since, but is always full of water even in the hottest summers.And now you may suppose that it was very easy for the other giant to master the one who had the spade, and when he had done so, he determined to put him where he could never trouble anyone again. So he very quickly built up the Ercall Hill beside the Wrekin, and imprisoned his fallen foe within it. There the poor blind giant remains until this day, and in the dead of night you may sometimes hear him groaning.There is another and a better known legend of this famous Wreken:Once upon a time there was a wicked old giant in Wales who, for somereason or other, had a very great spite against the Mayor of Shrewsburyand all his people, and he made up his mind to dam up the Severn, and bythat means cause such a flood that the town would be drowned.So off he set, carrying a spadeful of earth, and tramped along mile aftermile trying to find the way to Shrewsbury. And how he missed it I cannottell, but he must have gone wrong somewhere, for at last he got close toWellington, and by that time he was puffing and blowing under his heavyload, and wishing he was at the end of his journey. By and by there came acobbler along the road with a sack of old boots and shoes on his back, forhe lived at Wellington, and went once a fortnight to Shrewsbury to collecthis customers' old boots and shoes, and take them home with him to mend.And the giant called out to him. "I say," he said, "how far is it toShrewsbury?""Shrewsbury?" said the cobbler. "what do you want at Shrewsbury?""Why," said the giant, "to fill up the Severn with this lump of earth I'vegot here. I've an old grudge against the mayor and the folks atShrewsbury, and now I mean to drown them out, and get rid of them all atonce.""My word!" thought the cobbler. "This'll never do! I can't afford to losemy customers!" And he spoke up again. "Eh!" he said, "you'll never get toShrewsbury   not today nor tomorrow. Why look at me! I'm justcome from Shrewsbury, and I've had time to wear out all these old bootsand shoes on the road since I started." And he showed him his sack."Oh!" said the giant, with a great groan. "Then it's no use! I'm fairlytired out already, and I can't carry this load of mine any farther. Ishall just drop it here and go back home."So he dropped the earth on the ground just where he stood, and scraped hisboots on the spade, and off he went home again to Wales, and nobody everheard anything of him in Shropshire after. But where he put down his load,there stands the Wrekin to this day. and even the earth that he scrapedoff his boots was such a pile that it made the little Ercall by theWrekin's side.