A Welshman walking over London Bridge, with a neat hazel staff in hishand, was accosted by an Englishman, who asked him whence he came."I am from my own country," answered the Welshman, in a churlish tone."Do not take it amiss, my friend," said the Englishman. "if you will onlyanswer my questions, and take my advice, it will be of greater benefit toyou than you imagine. That stick in your hand grew on a spot under whichare hid vast treasures of gold and silver. and if you remember the place,and can conduct me to it, I will put you in possession of thosetreasures."The Welshman soon understood that the stranger was what he called acunning man, or conjurer, and for some time hesitated, not willing to gowith him among devils, from whom this magician must have derived hisknowledge. but he was at length persuaded to accompany him into Wales. andgoing to Craig y Dinas, the Welshman pointed out the spot whence he hadcut the stick. It was from the stock or root of a large old hazel: thisthey dug up, and under it found a broad flat stone. This was found toclose up the entrance into a very large cavern, down into which they bothwent. In the middle of the passage hung a bell, and the conjurerearnestly cautioned the Welshman not not touch it. They reached the lowerpart of the cave, which was very wide, and there saw many thousands ofwarriors lying down fast asleep in a large circle, their heads outwards,every one clad in bright armour, with their swords, shields, and otherweapons lying by them, ready to be laid hold on in an instant, wheneverthe bell should ring and awake them. All the arms were so highly polishedand bright, that they illumined the cavern, as with the light of tenthousand flames of fire. They saw amongst the warriors one greatlydistinguished from the rest by his arms, shield, battle axe, and a crownof gold set with the most precious stones, lying by his side.In the midst of this circle of warriors they saw two very large heaps, oneof gold, the other of silver. The magician told the Welshman that hemight take as much as he could carry away of either the one or the other,but that he was not to take from both the heaps. The Welshman loadedhimself with gold: the conjurer took none, saying that he did not want it,that gold was of no use but to those who wanted knowledge, and that hiscontempt of gold had enabled him to acquire that superior knowledge andwisdom which he possessed. In their way out he cautioned the Welshmanagain not to touch the bell, but if unfortunately he should do so, itmight be of the most fatal consequence to him as one or more of thewarriors would awake, lift up his head, and ask if it was day."Should this happen," said the cunning man, "you must, without hesitation,answer No, sleep thou on. on hearing which he will again lay downhis head and sleep."In their way up, however, the Welshman, overloaded with gold, was not ableto pass the bell without touching it   it rang   one of the warriorsraised up his head, and asked, "Is it day?""No," answered the Welshman promptly, "it is not, sleep thou on." so theygot out of the cave, laid down the stone over its entrance, and replacedthe hazel tree.The cunning man, before he parted from his companion, advised him to beeconomical in the use of his treasure. observing that he had, withprudence, enough for life: but that if by unforeseen accidents he shouldbe again reduced to poverty, he might repair to the cave for more.repeating the caution, not to touch the bell if possible, but if heshould, to give the proper answer, that it was not day, as promptlyas possible. He also told him that the distinguished person they had seenwas Arthur, and the others his warriors. and they lay there asleep withtheir arms ready at hand for the dawn of that day when the Black Eagleand the Golden Eagle should go to war, the loud clamor ofwhich would make the earth tremble so much, that the bell would ringloudly, and the warriors awake, take up their arms, and destroy all theenemies of the Cymry, who afterwards should repossess the Island ofBritain, re establish their own king and government at Caerlleon, and begoverned with justice, and blessed with peace so long as the worldendures.The time came when the Welshman's treasure was all spent: he went to thecave, and as before over loaded himself. In his way out he touched thebell   it rang   a warrior lifted up his head, asking if it wasday, but the Welshman, who had covetously overloaded himself, beingquite out ofbreath with labouring under his burden, and withal struck with terror, wasnot able to give the necessary answer. whereupon some of the warriors gotup, took the gold away from him and beat him dreadfully. They afterwardsthrew him out, and drew the stone after them over the mouth of the cave.The Welshman never recovered the effects of that beating, but remainedalmost a cripple as long as he lived, and very poor. He often returnedwith some of his friends to Craig y Dinas. but they could never afterwardsfind the spot, though they dug over, seemingly, every inch of the hill.He lived in this cripled and poor condition very long, a warning to all,of the evils which result from a want of knowledge and prudence, teachingnot to be covetous, not to neglect good advice, and never to trust thatthey can, without danger, give way to their own wishes, except one: thewish to be good.