There was a squire one time and he wanted money badly and the devil appeared to him and he asked him if he wanted money and he said he did.The devil said he would give him a room of money on conditions that he would go with him at the end of twenty one years and if he was not able he would give work to do what he would not be able to do.They made a bargain for a roomful of gold and the devil sent his men to fill the room with with gold. When they were shovelling in the gold they were getting tired and the squire had a hole made in the floor and his men were bringing it away into another room so the devil stopped his men from shovelling and he called up the squire and the squire told him he had enough. So at the end of twenty one years the devil was to come for the squire, and if the squire gave him work to do he would not go with him.The squire began to live in happiness and pleasure with all the gold he had until the twenty one years were up. Then he began to get down hearted and did not know what to do. He was retired to his room, and he was reading his bible and trying to content himself. The devil appeared to him and told him to be preparing that in a week his twenty one years would be up, so when the twenty one years were up the devil came to him in the room and told him he would have to give him something to do and if he was able to do it he would have to go with him tomorrow.The squire brought the devil to a river in his own land and he said that he would have to build a mill two story high and have it built and slated before twelve o'clock the next day. The squire thought the devil would not be able to build it that short of time. Early next morning he was called by one of his servants and the servant told him that the mill was built below at the river. he got up and went down to the mill, and he did not know what to do.So home he went and began to read his bible until the devil was with him and asked him was he ready to come or did he see the mill. The squire said he did and it was a great mill and it would take a week to prepare. He said he could not that he would have to come now and give him work. He would give him no time, and his wife was arguing with her servants. Is there anything you cannot do try said the devil, "can you stop a woman's tongue" if you stop my ladies tongue.The devil disappeared out of the room and the servants ran up the stairs to the master and said the wife was dying and when he went down she was dead. Now said the devil is there anything else you have to do.You will have to give me until I bury my wife.The squire locked himself up in the room reading the bible and trying to convert himself. The devil had him anoyed and wanted him to bury his wife. He did not bury her for seven days so the devil was trying to get him to go and he was reading the bible night and day. After he burying his wife the devil came and said he should come now. The squire wanted him to give wait for three days and it was no use he would not give him three hours. He said he would not go until one day and he said he would sooner be dead than alive.The devil said he bring him one way as the other dead or alive.The squire said he would like to be hanged with a certain class of a rope a rope that would be made of sand of the sea shore. The devil struck him the rope of sand and blinded one eye in him. He asked five minutes more off him and he said he would not give so the squire began to cry.The candle he had was nearly burned out and he asked him him to give him until the candle was burned out and the devil said he would and the squire quenched the candle and the candle was never burned out from that day to this. The squire said he would not go until the candle was burned out and he said it would never be burned out so the devil went out the door mad.Got by,Told by,Ellen Rattigan,John Oates,Kilroosky,Kilroosky,Roscommon.Roscommon.Age 70 years.