A VERY long time ago the town of Hamel in Germany was invaded by bandsof rats, the like of which had never been seen before nor will ever beagain.They were great black creatures that ran boldly in broad daylightthrough the streets, and swarmed so, all over the houses, that peopleat last could not put their hand or foot down anywhere without touchingone. When dressing in the morning they found them in their breeches andpetticoats, in their pockets and in their boots. and when they wanted amorsel to eat, the voracious horde had swept away everything from cellarto garret. The night was even worse. As soon as the lights were out,these untiring nibblers set to work. And everywhere, in the ceilings,in the floors, in the cupboards, at the doors, there was a chase and arummage, and so furious a noise of gimlets, pincers, and saws, that adeaf man could not have rested for one hour together.Neither cats nor dogs, nor poison nor traps, nor prayers nor candlesburnt to all the saints nothing would do anything. The more they killedthe more came. And the inhabitants of Hamel began to go to the dogs (notthat THEY were of much use), when one Friday there arrived in the town aman with a queer face, who played the bagpipes and sang this refrain:'Qui vivra verra:Le voila,Le preneur des rats.'He was a great gawky fellow, dry and bronzed, with a crooked nose, along rat tail moustache, two great yellow piercing and mocking eyes,under a large felt hat set off by a scarlet cock's feather. He wasdressed in a green jacket with a leather belt and red breeches, and onhis feet were sandals fastened by thongs passed round his legs in thegipsy fashion.That is how he may be seen to this day, painted on a window of thecathedral of Hamel.He stopped on the great market place before the town hall, turned hisback on the church and went on with his music, singing:'Who lives shall see:This is he,The ratcatcher.'The town council had just assembled to consider once more this plague ofEgypt, from which no one could save the town.The stranger sent word to the counsellors that, if they would make itworth his while, he would rid them of all their rats before night, downto the very last.'Then he is a sorcerer!' cried the citizens with one voice. 'we mustbeware of him.'The Town Counsellor, who was considered clever, reassured them.He said: 'Sorcerer or no, if this bagpiper speaks the truth, it was hewho sent us this horrible vermin that he wants to rid us of to day formoney. Well, we must learn to catch the devil in his own snares. Youleave it to me.''Leave it to the Town Counsellor,' said the citizens one to another.And the stranger was brought before them.'Before night,' said he, 'I shall have despatched all the rats in Hamelif you will but pay me a gros a head.''A gros a head!' cried the citizens, 'but that will come to millions offlorins!'The Town Counsellor simply shrugged his shoulders and said to thestranger:'A bargain! To work. the rats will be paid one gros a head as you ask.'The bagpiper announced that he would operate that very evening when themoon rose. He added that the inhabitants should at that hour leave thestreets free, and content themselves with looking out of their windowsat what was passing, and that it would be a pleasant spectacle. Whenthe people of Hamel heard of the bargain, they too exclaimed: 'A gros ahead! but this will cost us a deal of money!''Leave it to the Town Counsellor,' said the town council with amalicious air. And the good people of Hamel repeated with theircounsellors, 'Leave it to the Town Counsellor.'Towards nine at night the bagpiper re appeared on the market place. Heturned, as at first, his back to the church, and the moment the moonrose on the horizon, 'Trarira, trari!' the bagpipes resounded.It was first a slow, caressing sound, then more and more lively andurgent, and so sonorous and piercing that it penetrated as far as thefarthest alleys and retreats of the town.Soon from the bottom of the cellars, the top of the garrets, from underall the furniture, from all the nooks and corners of the houses, outcome the rats, search for the door, fling themselves into the street,and trip, trip, trip, begin to run in file towards the front of the townhall, so squeezed together that they covered the pavement like the wavesof flooded torrent.When the square was quite full the bagpiper faced about, and, stillplaying briskly, turned towards the river that runs at the foot of thewalls of Hamel.Arrived there he turned round. the rats were following.'Hop! hop!' he cried, pointing with his finger to the middle of thestream, where the water whirled and was drawn down as if through afunnel. And hop! hop! without hesitating, the rats took the leap, swamstraight to the funnel, plunged in head foremost and disappeared.The plunging continued thus without ceasing till midnight.At last, dragging himself with difficulty, came a big rat, white withage, and stopped on the bank.It was the king of the band.'Are they all there, friend Blanchet?' asked the bagpiper.'They are all there,' replied friend Blanchet.'And how many were they?''Nine hundred and ninety thousand, nine hundred and ninety nine.''Well reckoned?''Well reckoned.''Then go and join them, old sire, and au revoir.'Then the old white rat sprang in his turn into the river, swam to thewhirlpool and disappeared.When the bagpiper had thus concluded his business he went to bed athis inn. And for the first time during three months the people of Hamelslept quietly through the night.The next morning, at nine o'clock, the bagpiper repaired to the townhall, where the town council awaited him.'All your rats took a jump into the river yesterday,' said he to thecounsellors, 'and I guarantee that not one of them comes back. They werenine hundred and ninety thousand, nine hundred and ninety nine, at onegros a head. Reckon!''Let us reckon the heads first. One gros a head is one head the gros.Where are the heads?'The ratcatcher did not expect this treacherous stroke. He paled withanger and his eyes flashed fire.'The heads!' cried he, 'if you care about them, go and find them in theriver.''So,' replied the Town Counsellor, 'you refuse to hold to the terms ofyour agreement? We ourselves could refuse you all payment. But you havebeen of use to us, and we will not let you go without a recompense,' andhe offered him fifty crowns.'Keep your recompense for yourself,' replied the ratcatcher proudly. 'Ifyou do not pay me I will be paid by your heirs.'Thereupon he pulled his hat down over his eyes, went hastily out of thehall, and left the town without speaking to a soul.When the Hamel people heard how the affair had ended they rubbed theirhands, and with no more scruple than their Town Counsellor, they laughedover the ratcatcher, who, they said, was caught in his own trap. Butwhat made them laugh above all was his threat of getting himself paid bytheir heirs. Ha! they wished that they only had such creditors for therest of their lives.Next day, which was a Sunday, they all went gaily to church, thinkingthat after Mass they would at last be able to eat some good thing thatthe rats had not tasted before them.They never suspected the terrible surprise that awaited them on theirreturn home. No children anywhere, they had all disappeared!'Our children! where are our poor children?' was the cry that was soonheard in all the streets.Then through the east door of the town came three little boys, who criedand wept, and this is what they told:While the parents were at church a wonderful music had resounded. Soonall the little boys and all the little girls that had been left at homehad gone out, attracted by the magic sounds, and had rushed to the greatmarket place. There they found the ratcatcher playing his bagpipes atthe same spot as the evening before. Then the stranger had begun towalk quickly, and they had followed, running, singing and dancing to thesound of the music, as far as the foot of the mountain which one sees onentering Hamel. At their approach the mountain had opened a little, andthe bagpiper had gone in with them, after which it had closed again.Only the three little ones who told the adventure had remained outside,as if by a miracle. One was bandy legged and could not run fast enough.the other, who had left the house in haste, one foot shod the otherbare, had hurt himself against a big stone and could not walk withoutdifficulty. the third had arrived in time, but in harrying to go in withthe others had struck so violently against the wall of the mountain thathe fell backwards at the moment it closed upon his comrades.At this story the parents redoubled their lamentations. They ran withpikes and mattocks to the mountain, and searched till evening to findthe opening by which their children had disappeared, without being ableto find it. At last, the night falling, they returned desolate to Hamel.But the most unhappy of all was the Town Counsellor, for he lost threelittle boys and two pretty little girls, and to crown all, the peopleof Hamel overwhelmed him with reproaches, forgetting that the eveningbefore they had all agreed with him.What had become of all these unfortunate children?The parents always hoped they were not dead, and that the rat catcher,who certainly must have come out of the mountain, would have taken themwith him to his country. That is why for several years they sent insearch of them to different countries, but no one ever came on the traceof the poor little ones.It was not till much later that anything was to be heard of them.About one hundred and fifty years after the event, when there was nolonger one left of the fathers, mothers, brothers or sisters of thatday, there arrived one evening in Hamel some merchants of Bremenreturning from the East, who asked to speak with the citizens. They toldthat they, in crossing Hungary, had sojourned in a mountainous countrycalled Transylvania, where the inhabitants only spoke German, while allaround them nothing was spoken but Hungarian. These people also declaredthat they came from Germany, but they did not know how they chanced tobe in this strange country. 'Now,' said the merchants of Bremen, 'theseGermans cannot be other than the descendants of the lost children ofHamel.'The people of Hamel did not doubt it. and since that day they regard itas certain that the Transylvanians of Hungary are their country folk,whose ancestors, as children, were brought there by the ratcatcher.There are more difficult things to believe than that.(16)(16) Ch. Marelles.