Once upon a time two young men living in a small village fell in lovewith the same girl. During the winter, it was all night except for anhour or so about noon, when the darkness seemed a little less dark, andthen they used to see which of them could tempt her out for a sleighride with the Northern Lights flashing above them, or which couldpersuade her to come to a dance in some neighbouring barn. But when thespring began, and the light grew longer, the hearts of the villagersleapt at the sight of the sun, and a day was fixed for the boats to bebrought out, and the great nets to be spread in the bays of some islandsthat lay a few miles to the north. Everybody went on this expedition,and the two young men and the girl went with them.They all sailed merrily across the sea chattering like a flock ofmagpies, or singing their favourite songs. And when they reached theshore, what an unpacking there was! For this was a noted fishing ground,and here they would live, in little wooden huts, till autumn and badweather came round again.The maiden and the two young men happened to share the same hut withsome friends, and fished daily from the same boat. And as time went on,one of the youths remarked that the girl took less notice of himthan she did of his companion. At first he tried to think that he wasdreaming, and for a long while he kept his eyes shut very tight to whathe did not want to see, but in spite of his efforts, the truth managedto wriggle through, and then the young man gave up trying to deceivehimself, and set about finding some way to get the better of his rival.The plan that he hit upon could not be carried out for some months. butthe longer the young man thought of it, the more pleased he was with it,so he made no sign of his feelings, and waited patiently till themoment came. This was the very day that they were all going to leave theislands, and sail back to the mainland for the winter. In the bustleand hurry of departure, the cunning fisherman contrived that their boatshould be the last to put off, and when everything was ready, and thesails about to be set, he suddenly called out:'Oh, dear, what shall I do! I have left my best knife behind in the hut.Run, like a good fellow, and get it for me, while I raise the anchor andloosen the tiller.'Not thinking any harm, the youth jumped back on shore and made his wayup the steep hank. At the door of the hut he stopped and looked back,then started and gazed in horror. The head of the boat stood out to sea,and he was left alone on the island.Yes, there was no doubt of it he was quite alone. and he had nothing tohelp him except the knife which his comrade had purposely dropped onthe ledge of the window. For some minutes he was too stunned by thetreachery of his friend to think about anything at all, but after awhile he shook himself awake, and determined that he would manage tokeep alive somehow, if it were only to revenge himself.So he put the knife in his pocket and went off to a part of the islandwhich was not so bare as the rest, and had a small grove of trees. Fromone of these he cut himself a bow, which he strung with a piece of cordthat had been left lying about the huts.When this was ready the young man ran down to the shore and shot one ortwo sea birds, which he plucked and cooked for supper.In this way the months slipped by, and Christmas came round again. Theevening before, the youth went down to the rocks and into the copse,collecting all the drift wood the sea had washed up or the gale hadblown down, and he piled it up in a great stack outside the door, sothat he might not have to fetch any all the next day. As soon as histask was done, he paused and looked out towards the mainland, thinkingof Christmas Eve last year, and the merry dance they had had. The nightwas still and cold, and by the help of the Northern Lights he couldalmost sea across to the opposite coast, when, suddenly, he noticed aboat, which seemed steering straight for the island. At first he couldhardly stand for joy, the chance of speaking to another man was sodelightful. but as the boat drew near there was something, he could nottell what, that was different from the boats which he had been used toall his life, and when it touched the shore he saw that the peoplethat filled it were beings of another world than ours. Then he hastilystepped behind the wood stack, and waited for what might happen next.The strange folk one by one jumped on to the rocks, each bearing a loadof something that they wanted. Among the women he remarked two younggirls, more beautiful and better dressed than any of the rest, carryingbetween them two great baskets full of provisions. The young man peepedout cautiously to see what all this crowd could be doing inside thetiny hut, but in a moment he drew back again, as the girls returned,and looked about as if they wanted to find out what sort of a place theisland was.Their sharp eyes soon discovered the form of a man crouching behindthe bundles of sticks, and at first they felt a little frightened, andstarted as if they would run away. But the youth remained so still,that they took courage and laughed gaily to each other. 'What a strangecreature, let us try what he is made of,' said one, and she stooped downand gave him a pinch.Now the young man had a pin sticking in the sleeve of his jacket, andthe moment the girl's hand touched him she pricked it so sharply thatthe blood came. The girl screamed so loudly that the people all ran outof their huts to see what was the matter. But directly they caught sightof the man they turned and fled in the other direction, and picking upthe goods they had brought with them scampered as fast as they coulddown to the shore. In an instant, boat, people, and goods had vanishedcompletely.In their hurry they had, however, forgotten two things: a bundle of keyswhich lay on the table, and the girl whom the pin had pricked, and whonow stood pale and helpless beside the wood stack.'You will have to make me your wife,' she said at last, 'for you havedrawn my blood, and I belong to you.''Why not? I am quite willing,' answered he. 'But how do you suppose wecan manage to live till summer comes round again?''Do not be anxious about that,' said the girl. 'if you will only marryme all will be well. I am very rich, and all my family are rich also.'Then the young man gave her his promise to make her his wife, and thegirl fulfilled her part of the bargain, and food was plentiful on theisland all through the long winter months, though he never knew howit got there. And by and by it was spring once more, and time for thefisher folk to sail from the mainland.'Where are we to go now?' asked the girl, one day, when the sun seemedbrighter and the wind softer than usual.'I do not care where I go,' answered the young man. 'what do you think?'The girl replied that she would like to go somewhere right at the otherend of the island, and build a house, far away from the huts of thefishing folk. And he consented, and that very day they set off in searchof a sheltered spot on the banks of a stream, so that it would be easyto get water.In a tiny bay, on the opposite side of the island they found the verything, which seemed to have been made on purpose for them. and as theywere tired with their long walk, they laid themselves down on a bank ofmoss among some birches and prepared to have a good night's rest, soas to be fresh for work next day. But before she went to sleep the girlturned to her husband, and said: 'If in your dreams you fancy that youhear strange noises, be sure you do not stir, or get up to see what itis.''Oh, it is not likely we shall hear any noises in such a quiet place,'answered he, and fell sound asleep.Suddenly he was awakened by a great clatter about his ears, as if allthe workmen in the world were sawing and hammering and building close tohim. He was just going to spring up and go to see what it meant, whenhe luckily remembered his wife's words and lay still. But the time tillmorning seemed very long, and with the first ray of sun they both rose,and pushed aside the branches of the birch trees. There, in the veryplace they had chosen, stood a beautiful house doors and windows, andeverything all complete!'Now you must fix on a spot for your cow stalls,' said the girl, whenthey had breakfasted off wild cherries. 'and take care it is the propersize, neither too large nor too small.' And the husband did as he wasbid, though he wondered what use a cow house could be, as they had nocows to put in it. But as he was a little afraid of his wife, who knewso much more than he, he asked no questions.This night also he was awakened by the same sounds as before, and in themorning they found, near the stream, the most beautiful cow house thatever was seen, with stalls and milk pails and stools all complete,indeed, everything that a cow house could possibly want, except thecows. Then the girl bade him measure out the ground for a storehouse,and this, she said, might be as large as he pleased. and when thestorehouse was ready she proposed that they should set off to pay herparents a visit.The old people welcomed them heartily, and summoned their neighbours,for many miles round, to a great feast in their honour. In fact, forseveral weeks there was no work done on the farm at all. and at lengththe young man and his wife grew tired of so much play, and declaredthat they must return to their own home. But, before they started on thejourney, the wife whispered to her husband: 'Take care to jump over thethreshold as quick as you can, or it will be the worse for you.'The young man listened to her words, and sprang over the threshold likean arrow from a bow. and it was well he did, for, no sooner was he onthe other side, than his father in law threw a great hammer at him,which would have broken both his legs, if it had only touched them.When they had gone some distance on the road home, the girl turned toher husband and said: 'Till you step inside the house, be sure you donot look back, whatever you may hear or see.'And the husband promised, and for a while all was still. and he thoughtno more about the matter till he noticed at last that the nearer he drewto the house the louder grew the noise of the trampling of feet behindhim. As he laid his hand upon the door he thought he was safe, andturned to look. There, sure enough, was a vast herd of cattle, which hadbeen sent after him by his father in law when he found that his daughterhad been cleverer than he. Half of the herd were already through thefence and cropping the grass on the banks of the stream, but half stillremained outside and faded into nothing, even as he watched them.However, enough cattle were left to make the young man rich, and he andhis wife lived happily together, except that every now and then the girlvanished from his sight, and never told him where she had been. Fora long time he kept silence about it. but one day, when he had beencomplaining of her absence, she said to him: 'Dear husband, I am boundto go, even against my will, and there is only one way to stop me. Drivea nail into the threshold, and then I can never pass in or out.'And so he did.