ONCE upon a time there was a King who was so morose and disagreeablethat he was feared by all his subjects, and with good reason, as forthe most trifling offences he would have their heads cut off. This KingGrumpy, as he was called, had one son, who was as different from hisfather as he could possibly be. No prince equalled him in cleverness andkindness of heart, but unfortunately he was most terribly ugly. He hadcrooked legs and squinting eyes, a large mouth all on one side, and ahunchback. Never was there a beautiful soul in such a frightful littlebody, but in spite of his appearance everybody loved him. The Queen, hismother, called him Curlicue, because it was a name she rather liked, andit seemed to suit him.King Grumpy, who cared a great deal more for his own grandeur than forhis son's happiness, wished to betroth the Prince to the daughter of aneighbouring King, whose great estates joined his own, for he thoughtthat this alliance would make him more powerful than ever, and as forthe Princess she would do very well for Prince Curlicue, for she was asugly as himself. Indeed, though she was the most amiable creature in theworld, there was no concealing the fact that she was frightful, and solame that she always went about with a crutch, and people called herPrincess Cabbage Stalk.The King, having asked for and received a portrait of this Princess,had it placed in his great hall under a canopy, and sent for PrinceCurlicue, to whom he said that as this was the portrait of his futurebride, he hoped the Prince found it charming.The Prince after one glance at it turned away with a disdainful air,which greatly offended his father.'Am I to understand that you are not pleased?' he said very sharply.'No, sire,' replied the Prince. 'How could I be pleased to marry anugly, lame Princess?''Certainly it is becoming in YOU to object to that,' said King Grumpy,'since you are ugly enough to frighten anyone yourself.''That is the very reason,' said the Prince, 'that I wish to marrysomeone who is not ugly. I am quite tired enough of seeing myself.''I tell you that you shall marry her,' cried King Grumpy angrily.And the Prince, seeing that it was of no use to remonstrate, bowed andretired.As King Grumpy was not used to being contradicted in anything, hewas very much displeased with his son, and ordered that he should beimprisoned in the tower that was kept on purpose for rebellious Princes,but had not been used for about two hundred years, because there hadnot been any. The Prince thought all the rooms looked strangelyold fashioned, with their antique furniture, but as there was a goodlibrary he was pleased, for he was very fond of reading, and he soon gotpermission to have as many books as he liked. But when he looked at themhe found that they were written in a forgotten language, and he couldnot understand a single word, though he amused himself with trying.King Grumpy was so convinced that Prince Curlicue would soon get tiredof being in prison, and so consent to marry the Princess Cabbage Stalk,that he sent ambassadors to her father proposing that she should comeand be married to his son, who would make her perfectly happy.The King was delighted to receive so good an offer for his unluckydaughter, though, to tell the truth, he found it impossible to admirethe Prince's portrait which had been sent to him. However, he had itplaced in as favourable a light as possible, and sent for the Princess,but the moment she caught sight of it she looked the other way andbegan to cry. The King, who was very much annoyed to see how greatlyshe disliked it, took a mirror, and holding it up before the unhappyPrincess, said:'I see you do not think the Prince handsome, but look at yourself, andsee if you have any right to complain about that.''Sire,' she answered, 'I do not wish to complain, only I beg of youdo not make me marry at all. I had rather be the unhappy PrincessCabbage Stalk all my life than inflict the sight of my ugliness onanyone else.'But the King would not listen to her, and sent her away with theambassadors.In the meantime the Prince was kept safely locked up in his tower, and,that he might be as dull as possible, King Grumpy ordered that no oneshould speak to him, and that they should give him next to nothingto eat. But all the Princess guards were so fond of him that they dideverything they dared, in spite of the King, to make the time passpleasantly.One day, as the Prince was walking up and down the great gallery,thinking how miserable it was to be so ugly, and to be forced to marryan equally frightful Princess, he looked up suddenly and noticed thatthe painted windows were particularly bright and beautiful, and for thesake of doing something that would change his sad thoughts he began toexamine them attentively. He found that the pictures seemed to be scenesfrom the life of a man who appeared in every window, and the Prince,fancying that he saw in this man some resemblance to himself, began tobe deeply interested. In the first window there was a picture of him inone of the turrets of the tower, farther on he was seeking something ina chink in the wall, in the next picture he was opening an old cabinetwith a golden key, and so it went on through numbers of scenes, andpresently the Prince noticed that another figure occupied the mostimportant place in each scene, and this time it was a tall handsomeyoung man: poor Prince Curlicue found it a pleasure to look at him,he was so straight and strong. By this time it had grown dark, and thePrince had to go back to his own room, and to amuse himself he took up aquaint old book and began to look at the pictures. But his surprise wasgreat to find that they represented the same scenes as the windows ofthe gallery, and what was more, that they seemed to be alive. In lookingat pictures of musicians he saw their hands move and heard sweet sounds.there was a picture of a ball, and the Prince could watch the littledancing people come and go. He turned a page, and there was an excellentsmell of a savoury dinner, and one of the figures who sat at the feastlooked at him and said:'We drink your health, Curlicue. Try to give us our Queen again, for ifyou do you will be rewarded. if not, it will be the worse for you.'At these words the Prince, who had been growing more and moreastonished, was fairly terrified, and dropping the book with a crash hesank back insensible. The noise he made brought his guards to hisaid, and as soon as he revived they asked him what was the matter. Heanswered that he was so faint and giddy with hunger that he had imaginedhe saw and heard all sorts of strange things. Thereupon, in spite of theKing's orders, the guards gave him an excellent supper, and when he hadeaten it he again opened his book, but could see none of the wonderfulpictures, which convinced him that he must have been dreaming before.However, when he went into he gallery next day and looked at the paintedwindows again, he found that they moved, and the figures came and wentas if they had been alive, and after watching the one who was likehimself find the key in the crack of the turret wall and open the oldcabinet, he determined to go and examine the place himself, and try tofind out what the mystery was. So he went up into the turret and beganto search about and tap upon the walls, and all at once he came upon aplace that sounded hollow. Taking a hammer he broke away a bit of thestone, and found behind it a little golden key. The next thing to do wasto find the cabinet, and the Prince soon came to it, hidden away in adark corner, though indeed it was so old and battered looking that hewould never have noticed it of his own accord. At first he could notsee any keyhole, but after a careful search he found one hidden in thecarving, and the golden key just fitted it. so the Prince gave it avigorous turn and the doors flew open.Ugly and old as the cabinet was outside, nothing could have been morerich and beautiful than what met the Prince's astonished eyes. Everydrawer was made of crystal, of amber, or of some precious stone, and wasquite full of every kind of treasure. Prince Curlicue was delighted. heopened one after another, until at last he came to one tiny drawer whichcontained only an emerald key.'I believe that this must open that little golden door in the middle,'said the Prince to himself. And he fitted in the little key and turnedit. The tiny door swung back, and a soft crimson light gleamed overthe whole cabinet. The Prince found that it proceeded from an immenseglowing carbuncle, made into a box, which lay before him. He lostno time in opening it, but what was his horror when he found that itcontained a man's hand, which was holding a portrait. His first thoughtwas to put back the terrible box and fly from the turret. but a voice inhis ear said, 'This hand belonged to one whom you can help and restore.Look at this beautiful portrait, the original of which was the cause ofall my misfortunes, and if you wish to help me, go without a moment'sdelay to the great gallery, notice where the sun's rays fall mostbrightly, and if you seek there you will find my treasure.'The voice ceased, and though the Prince in his bewilderment askedvarious questions, he received no answer. So he put back the box andlocked the cabinet up again, and, having replaced the key in the crackin the wall, hastened down to the gallery.When he entered it all the windows shook and clattered in the strangestway, but the Prince did not heed them. he was looking so carefully forthe place where the sun shone most brightly, and it seemed to him thatit was upon the portrait of a most splendidly handsome young man.He went up and examined it, and found that it rested against the ebonyand gold panelling, just like any of the other pictures in the gallery.He was puzzled, not knowing what to do next, until it occurred to him tosee if the windows would help him, and, looking at the nearest, he saw apicture of himself lifting the picture from the wall.The Prince took the hint, and lifting aside the picture withoutdifficulty, found himself in a marble hall adorned with statues. fromthis he passed on through numbers of splendid rooms, until at last hereached one all hung with blue gauze. The walls were of turquoises, andupon a low couch lay a lovely lady, who seemed to be asleep. Her hair,black as ebony, was spread across the pillows, making her face lookivory white, and the Prince noticed that she was unquiet. and when hesoftly advanced, fearing to wake her, he could hear her sigh, and murmurto herself:'Ah! how dared you think to win my love by separating me from my belovedFlorimond, and in my presence cutting off that dear hand that even youshould have feared and honoured?'And then the tears rolled slowly down the lovely lady's cheeks, andPrince Curlicue began to comprehend that she was under an enchantment,and that it was the hand of her lover that he had found.At this moment a huge Eagle flew into the room, holding in its talonsa Golden Branch, upon which were growing what looked like clusters ofcherries, only every cherry was a single glowing ruby.This he presented to the Prince, who guessed by this time that he wasin some way to break the enchantment that surrounded the sleeping lady.Taking the branch he touched her lightly with it, saying:'Fair one, I know not by what enchantment thou art bound, but in thename of thy beloved Florimond I conjure thee to come back to the lifewhich thou hast lost, but not forgotten.'Instantly the lady opened her lustrous eyes, and saw the Eagle hoveringnear.'Ah! stay, dear love, stay,' she cried. But the Eagle, uttering adolorous cry, fluttered his broad wings and disappeared. Then the ladyturned to Prince Curlicue, and said:'I know that it is to you I owe my deliverance from an enchantment whichhas held me for two hundred years. If there is anything that I can dofor you in return, you have only to tell me, and all my fairy powershall be used to make you happy.''Madam,' said Prince Curlicue, 'I wish to be allowed to restore yourbeloved Florimond to his natural form, since I cannot forget the tearsyou shed for him.''That is very amiable of you, dear Prince,' said the Fairy, 'but itis reserved for another person to do that. I cannot explain more atpresent. But is there nothing you wish for yourself?''Madam,' cried the Prince, flinging himself down at her feet, 'only lookat my ugliness. I am called Curlicue, and am an object of derision. Ientreat you to make me less ridiculous.''Rise, Prince,' said the Fairy, touching him with the Golden Branch.'Be as accomplished as you are handsome, and take the name of PrincePeerless, since that is the only title which will suit you now.'Silent from joy, the Prince kissed her hand to express his thanks, andwhen he rose and saw his new reflection in the mirrors which surroundedhim, he understood that Curlicue was indeed gone for ever.'How I wish,' said the Fairy, 'that I dared to tell you what is in storefor you, and warn you of the traps which lie in your path, but I mustnot. Fly from the tower, Prince, and remember that the Fairy Doucelinewill be your friend always.'When she had finished speaking, the Prince, to his great astonishment,found himself no longer in the tower, but set down in a thick forest atleast a hundred leagues away from it. And there we must leave him forthe present, and see what was happening elsewhere.When the guards found that the Prince did not ask for his supper asusual, they went into his room, and not finding him there, were verymuch alarmed, and searched the tower from turret to dungeon, but withoutsuccess. Knowing that the King would certainly have their heads cut offfor allowing the Prince to escape, they then agreed to say that he wasill, and after making the smallest among them look as much like PrinceCurlicue as possible, they put him into his bed and sent to inform theKing.King Grumpy was quite delighted to hear that his son was ill, for hethought that he would all the sooner be brought to do as he wished, andmarry the Princess. So he sent back to the guards to say that the Princewas to be treated as severely as before, which was just what they hadhoped he would say. In the meantime the Princess Cabbage Stalk hadreached the palace, travelling in a litter.King Grumpy went out to meet her, but when he saw her, with a skin likea tortoise's, her thick eyebrows meeting above her large nose, and hermouth from ear to ear, he could not help crying out:'Well, I must say Curlicue is ugly enough, but I don't think YOU needhave thought twice before consenting to marry him.''Sire,' she replied, 'I know too well what I am like to be hurt by whatyou say, but I assure you that I have no wish to marry your son I hadrather be called Princess Cabbage Stalk than Queen Curlicue.'This made King Grumpy very angry.'Your father has sent you here to marry my son,' he said, 'and you maybe sure that I am not going to offend him by altering his arrangements.'So the poor Princess was sent away in disgrace to her own apartments,and the ladies who attended upon her were charged to bring her to abetter mind.At this juncture the guards, who were in great fear that they would befound out, sent to tell the King that his son was dead, which annoyedhim very much. He at once made up his mind that it was entirely thePrincess's fault, and gave orders that she should be imprisoned inthe tower in Prince Curlicue's place. The Princess Cabbage Stalk wasimmensely astonished at this unjust proceeding, and sent many messagesof remonstrance to King Grumpy, but he was in such a temper that no onedared to deliver them, or to send the letters which the Princess wroteto her father. However, as she did not know this, she lived in hope ofsoon going back to her own country, and tried to amuse herself as wellas she could until the time should come. Every day she walked up anddown the long gallery, until she too was attracted and fascinated by theever changing pictures in the windows, and recognised herself in oneof the figures. 'They seem to have taken a great delight in paintingme since I came to this country,' she said to herself. 'One would thinkthat I and my crutch were put in on purpose to make that slim, charmingyoung shepherdess in the next picture look prettier by contrast. Ah!how nice it would be to be as pretty as that.' And then she looked atherself in a mirror, and turned away quickly with tears in her eyes fromthe doleful sight. All at once she became aware that she was not alone,for behind her stood a tiny old woman in a cap, who was as ugly again asherself and quite as lame.'Princess,' she said, 'your regrets are so piteous that I have come tooffer you the choice of goodness or beauty. If you wish to be prettyyou shall have your way, but you will also be vain, capricious, andfrivolous. If you remain as you are now, you shall be wise and amiableand modest.''Alas I madam,' cried the Princess, 'is it impossible to be at once wiseand beautiful?''No, child,' answered the old woman, 'only to you it is decreed that youmust choose between the two. See, I have brought with me my white andyellow muff. Breathe upon the yellow side and you will become like thepretty shepherdess you so much admire, and you will have won the loveof the handsome shepherd whose picture I have already seen you studyingwith interest. Breathe upon the white side and your looks will notalter, but you will grow better and happier day by day. Now you maychoose.''Ah well,' said the Princess, 'I suppose one can't have everything, andit's certainly better to be good than pretty.'And so she breathed upon the white side of the muff and thanked the oldfairy, who immediately disappeared. The Princess Cabbage Stalk felt veryforlorn when she was gone, and began to think that it was quite time herfather sent an army to rescue her.'If I could but get up into the turret,' she thought, 'to see if any oneis coming.' But to climb up there seemed impossible. Nevertheless shepresently hit upon a plan. The great clock was in the turret, as sheknew, though the weights hung down into the gallery. Taking one of themoff the rope, she tied herself on in its place, and when the clock waswound, up she went triumphantly into the turret. She looked out overthe country the first thing, but seeing nothing she sat down to rest alittle, and accidentally leant back against the wall which Curlicue,or rather Prince Peerless, had so hastily mended. Out fell the brokenstone, and with it the golden key. The clatter it made upon the floorattracted the Princess Cabbage Stalk's attention.She picked it up, and after a moment's consideration decided that itmust belong to the curious old cabinet in the corner, which had novisible keyhole. And then it was not long before she had it open, andwas admiring the treasures it contained as much as Prince Peerless haddone before her, and at last she came to the carbuncle box. No soonerhad she opened it than with a shudder of horror she tried to throw itdown, but found that some mysterious power compelled her to hold itagainst her will. And at this moment a voice in her ear said softly:'Take courage, Princess. upon this adventure your future happinessdepends.''What am I to do?' said the Princess trembling.'Take the box,' replied the voice, 'and hide it under your pillow, andwhen you see an Eagle, give it to him without losing a moment.'Terrified as the Princess was, she did not hesitate to obey, andhastened to put back all the other precious things precisely as she hadfound them. By this time her guards were seeking her everywhere, andthey were amazed to find her up in the turret, for they said she couldonly have got there by magic. For three days nothing happened, butat last in the night the Princess heard something flutter against herwindow, and drawing back her curtains she saw in the moonlight that itwas an Eagle.Limping across at her utmost speed she threw the window open, and thegreat Eagle sailed in beating with his wings for joy. The Princesslost no time in offering it the carbuncle box, which it grasped inits talons, and instantly disappeared, leaving in its place the mostbeautiful Prince she had ever seen, who was splendidly dressed, and worea diamond crown.'Princess,' said he, 'for two hundred years has a wicked enchanter keptme here. We both loved the same Fairy, but she preferred me. However,he was more powerful than I, and succeeded, when for a moment I was offmy guard, in changing me into an Eagle, while my Queen was left in anenchanted sleep. I knew that after two hundred years a Prince wouldrecall her to the light of day, and a Princess, in restoring to me thehand which my enemy had cut off, would give me back my natural form.The Fairy who watches over your destiny told me this, and it was she whoguided you to the cabinet in the turret, where she had placed my hand.It is she also who permits me to show my gratitude to you by grantingwhatever favour you may ask of me. Tell me, Princess, what is it thatyou wish for most? Shall I make you as beautiful as you deserve to be?''Ah, if you only would!' cried the Princess, and at the same moment sheheard a crick cracking in all her bones. She grew tall and straight andpretty, with eyes like shining stars, and a skin as white as milk.'Oh, wonderful! can this really be my poor little self?' she exclaimed,looking down in amazement at her tiny worn out crutch as it lay upon thefloor.'Indeed, Princess,' replied Florimond, 'it is yourself, but you musthave a new name, since the old one does not suit you now. Be calledPrincess Sunbeam, for you are bright and charming enough to deserve thename.'And so saying he disappeared, and the Princess, without knowing how shegot there, found herself walking under shady trees by a clear river. Ofcourse, the first thing she did was to look at her own reflection in thewater, and she was extremely surprised to find that she was exactly likethe shepherdess she had so much admired, and wore the same white dressand flowery wreath that she had seen in the painted windows. To completethe resemblance, her flock of sheep appeared, grazing round her, and shefound a gay crook adorned with flowers upon the bank of the river. Quitetired out by so many new and wonderful experiences, the Princess satdown to rest at the foot of a tree, and there she fell fast asleep. Nowit happened that it was in this very country that Prince Peerlesshad been set down, and while the Princess Sunbeam was still sleepingpeacefully, he came strolling along in search of a shady pasture for hissheep.The moment he caught sight of the Princess he recognised her as thecharming shepherdess whose picture he had seen so often in the tower,and as she was far prettier than he had remembered her, he was delightedthat chance had led him that way.He was still watching her admiringly when the Princess opened hereyes, and as she also recognised him they were soon great friends. ThePrincess asked Prince Peerless, as he knew the country better than shedid, to tell her of some peasant who would give her a lodging, and hesaid he knew of an old woman whose cottage would be the very place forher, it was so nice and so pretty. So they went there together, and thePrincess was charmed with the old woman and everything belonging to her.Supper was soon spread for her under a shady tree, and she invited thePrince to share the cream and brown bread which the old woman provided.This he was delighted to do, and having first fetched from his owngarden all the strawberries, cherries, nuts and flowers he could find.they sat down together and were very merry. After this they met everyday as they guarded their flocks, and were so happy that Prince Peerlessbegged the Princess to marry him, so that they might never be partedagain. Now though the Princess Sunbeam appeared to be only a poorshepherdess, she never forgot that she was a real Princess, and she wasnot at all sure that she ought to marry a humble shepherd, though sheknew she would like to do so very much.So she resolved to consult an Enchanter of whom she had heard a greatdeal since she had been a shepherdess, and without saying a word toanybody she set out to find the castle in which he lived with hissister, who was a powerful Fairy. The way was long, and lay through athick wood, where the Princess heard strange voices calling to her fromevery side, but she was in such a hurry that she stopped for nothing,and at last she came to the courtyard of the Enchanter's castle.The grass and briers were growing as high as if it were a hundred yearssince anyone had set foot there, but the Princess got through at last,though she gave herself a good many scratches by the way, and then shewent into a dark, gloomy hall, where there was but one tiny hole in thewall through which the daylight could enter. The hangings were all ofbats' wings, and from the ceiling hung twelve cats, who filled the hallwith their ear piercing yells. Upon the long table twelve mice werefastened by the tail, and just in front of each one's nose, but quitebeyond its reach, lay a tempting morsel of fat bacon. So the cats couldalways see the mice, but could not touch them, and the hungry mice weretormented by the sight and smell of the delicious morsels which theycould never seize.The Princess was looking at the poor creatures in dismay, when theEnchanter suddenly entered, wearing a long black robe and with acrocodile upon his head. In his hand he carried a whip made of twentylong snakes, all alive and writhing, and the Princess was so terrifiedat the sight that she heartily wished she had never come. Without sayinga word she ran to the door, but it was covered with a thick spider'sweb, and when she broke it she found another, and another, and another.In fact, there was no end to them. the Princess's arms ached withtearing them down, and yet she was no nearer to getting out, and thewicked Enchanter behind her laughed maliciously. At last he said:'You might spend the rest of your life over that without doing any good,but as you are young, and quite the prettiest creature I have seen for along time, I will marry you if you like, and I will give you thosecats and mice that you see there for your own. They are princes andprincesses who have happened to offend me. They used to love one anotheras much as they now hate one another. Aha! It's a pretty little revengeto keep them like that.''Oh! If you would only change me into a mouse too,' cried the Princess.'Oh! so you won't marry me?' said he. 'Little simpleton, you should haveeverything heart can desire.''No, indeed. nothing should make me marry you. in fact, I don't think Ishall ever love anyone,' cried the Princess.'In that case,' said the Enchanter, touching her, 'you had better becomea particular kind of creature that is neither fish nor fowl. you shallbe light and airy, and as green as the grass you live in. Off with you,Madam Grasshopper.' And the Princess, rejoicing to find herself freeonce more, skipped out into the garden, the prettiest little greenGrasshopper in the world. But as soon as she was safely out she began tobe rather sorry for herself.'Ah! Florimond,' she sighed, 'is this the end of your gift? Certainlybeauty is short lived, and this funny little face and a green crapedress are a comical end to it. I had better have married my amiableshepherd. It must be for my pride that I am condemned to be aGrasshopper, and sing day and night in the grass by this brook, when Ifeel far more inclined to cry.'In the meantime Prince Peerless had discovered the Princess's absence,and was lamenting over it by the river's brim, when he suddenly becameaware of the presence of a little old woman. She was quaintly dressed ina ruff and farthingale, and a velvet hood covered her snow white hair.'You seem sorrowful, my son,' she said. 'What is the matter?''Alas! mother,' answered the Prince, 'I have lost my sweet shepherdess,but I am determined to find her again, though I should have to traversethe whole world in search of her.''Go that way, my son,' said the old woman, pointing towards the paththat led to the castle. 'I have an idea that you will soon overtakeher.'The Prince thanked her heartily and set out. As he met with nohindrance, he soon reached the enchanted wood which surrounded thecastle, and there he thought he saw the Princess Sunbeam gliding beforehim among the trees. Prince Peerless hastened after her at the top ofhis speed, but could not get any nearer. then he called to her:'Sunbeam, my darling only wait for me a moment.'But the phantom did but fly the faster, and the Prince spent the wholeday in this vain pursuit. When night came he saw the castle before himall lighted up, and as he imagined that the Princess must be in it, hemade haste to get there too. He entered without difficulty, and in thehall the terrible old Fairy met him. She was so thin that the lightshone through her, and her eyes glowed like lamps. her skin was likea shark's, her arms were thin as laths, and her fingers like spindles.Nevertheless she wore rouge and patches, a mantle of silver brocade anda crown of diamonds, and her dress was covered with jewels, and greenand pink ribbons.'At last you have come to see me, Prince,' said she. 'Don't wasteanother thought upon that little shepherdess, who is unworthy of yournotice. I am the Queen of the Comets, and can bring you to great honourif you will marry me.''Marry you, Madam,' cried the Prince, in horror. 'No, I will neverconsent to that.'Thereupon the Fairy, in a rage, gave two strokes of her wand and filledthe gallery with horrible goblins, against whom the Prince had to fightfor his life. Though he had only his dagger, he defended himself so wellthat he escaped without any harm, and presently the old Fairy stoppedthe fray and asked the Prince if he was still of the same mind. Whenhe answered firmly that he was, she called up the appearance of thePrincess Sunbeam to the other end of the gallery, and said:'You see your beloved there? Take care what you are about, for if youagain refuse to marry me she shall be torn in pieces by two tigers.'The Prince was distracted, for he fancied he heard his dear shepherdessweeping and begging him to save her. In despair he cried:'Oh, Fairy Douceline, have you abandoned me after so many promises offriendship? Help, help us now!'Immediately a soft voice said in his ear:'Be firm, happen what may, and seek the Golden Branch.'Thus encouraged, the Prince persevered in his refusal, and at length theold Fairy in a fury cried:'Get out of my sight, obstinate Prince. Become a Cricket!'And instantly the handsome Prince Peerless became a poor little blackCricket, whose only idea would have been to find himself a cosy crannybehind some blazing hearth, if he had not luckily remembered the FairyDouceline's injunction to seek the Golden Branch.So he hastened to depart from the fatal castle, and sought shelter ina hollow tree, where he found a forlorn looking little Grasshoppercrouching in a corner, too miserable to sing.Without in the least expecting an answer, the Prince asked it:'And where may you be going, Gammer Grasshopper?''Where are you going yourself, Gaffer Cricket?' replied the Grasshopper.'What! can you speak?' said he.'Why should I not speak as well as you? Isn't a Grasshopper as good as aCricket?' said she.'I can talk because I was a Prince,' said the Cricket.'And for that very same reason I ought to be able to talk more than you,for I was a Princess,' replied the Grasshopper.'Then you have met with the same fate as I have,' said he. 'But whereare you going now? Cannot we journey together?''I seemed to hear a voice in the air which said: "Be firm, happen whatmay, and seek the Golden Branch,"' answered the Grasshopper, 'and Ithought the command must be for me, so I started at once, though I don'tknow the way.'At this moment their conversation was interrupted by two mice, who,breathless from running, flung themselves headlong through the hole intothe tree, nearly crushing the Grasshopper and the Cricket, though theygot out of the way as fast as they could and stood up in a dark corner.'Ah, Madam,' said the fatter of the two, 'I have such a pain in my sidefrom running so fast. How does your Highness find yourself?''I have pulled my tail off,' replied the younger Mouse, 'but as I shouldstill be on the sorcerer's table unless I had, I do not regret it. Arewe pursued, think you? How lucky we were to escape!''I only trust that we may escape cats and traps, and reach the GoldenBranch soon,' said the fat Mouse.'You know the way then?' said the other.'Oh dear, yes! as well as the way to my own house, Madam. This GoldenBranch is indeed a marvel, a single leaf from it makes one rich forever. It breaks enchantments, and makes all who approach it young andbeautiful. We must set out for it at the break of day.''May we have the honour of travelling with you this respectable Cricketand myself?' said the Grasshopper, stepping forward. 'We also are on apilgrimage to the Golden Branch.'The Mice courteously assented, and after many polite speeches the wholeparty fell asleep. With the earliest dawn they were on their way, andthough the Mice were in constant fear of being overtaken or trapped,they reached the Golden Branch in safety.It grew in the midst of a wonderful garden, all the paths of which werestrewn with pearls as big as peas. The roses were crimson diamonds, withemerald leaves. The pomegranates were garnets, the marigolds topazes,the daffodils yellow diamonds, the violets sapphires, the corn flowersturquoises, the tulips amethysts, opals and diamonds, so that the gardenborders blazed like the sun. The Golden Branch itself had become as tallas a forest tree, and sparkled with ruby cherries to its topmost twig.No sooner had the Grasshopper and the Cricket touched it than they wererestored to their natural forms, and their surprise and joy were greatwhen they recognised each other. At this moment Florimond and the FairyDouceline appeared in great splendour, and the Fairy, as she descendedfrom her chariot, said with a smile:'So you two have found one another again, I see, but I have still asurprise left for you. Don't hesitate, Princess, to tell your devotedshepherd how dearly you love him, as he is the very Prince your fathersent you to marry. So come here both of you and let me crown you, and wewill have the wedding at once.'The Prince and Princess thanked her with all their hearts, and declaredthat to her they owed all their happiness, and then the two Princesses,who had so lately been Mice, came and begged that the Fairy would useher power to release their unhappy friends who were still under theEnchanter's spell.'Really,' said the Fairy Douceline, 'on this happy occasion I cannotfind it in my heart to refuse you anything.' And she gave three strokesof her wand upon the Golden Branch, and immediately all the prisoners inthe Enchanter's castle found themselves free, and came with all speed tothe wonderful garden, where one touch of the Golden Branch restoredeach one to his natural form, and they greeted one another with manyrejoicings. To complete her generous work the Fairy presented them withthe wonderful cabinet and all the treasures it contained, which wereworth at least ten kingdoms. But to Prince Peerless and the PrincessSunbeam she gave the palace and garden of the Golden Branch, where,immensely rich and greatly beloved by all their subjects, they livedhappily ever after.(18)(18) Le Rameau d'Or. Par Madame d'Aulnoy.