Once upon a time there was a man who was so bad tempered and cross thathe never thought his wife did anything right in the house. One evening, inhay making time, he came home, scolding and swearing, and showing histeeth and making a commotion."Dear love, don't be so angry. that's a good man," said his wife."tomorrow let's change jobs. I'll go out with the mowers and mow, and youcan mind the house at home."Yes, the husband thought that would do very well. He was quite willing,he said.So early the next morning, his wife took a scythe over her neck, andwent out into the hay field with the mowers and began to mow. but the manwas to mind the house, and do the work at home.First of all he wanted to churn the butter. but when he had churnedawhile, he got thirsty, and went down to the cellar to tap a barrel ofale. He had just knocked in the bung, and was putting in the tap, when heheard the pig come into the kitchen above. As as fast as he could, he ranup the cellar steps, with the tap in his hand, to keep the pig fromupsetting the churn. but when he got there, he saw that the pig hadalready knocked the churn over, and was standing there, routing andgrunting in the cream which was running all over the floor. He got soangry that he quite forgot the ale barrel, and ran at the pig as hard ashe could. He caught it, too, just as it ran out of doors, and gave it sucha powerful kick that he killed it on the spot. Then he remembered he hadthe tap in his hand. but when he got down to the cellar, all the ale hadrun out of the barrel.Then he went into the milk shed and found enough cream left to fill thechurn again, and so he began to churn, for they had to have butter atdinner. When he had churned a bit, he remembered that their milk cow wasstill shut up in the barn, and hadn't had a bit to eat or a drop to drinkall morning, although the sun was high. It occurred to him that it was toofar to take her down to the meadow, so he'd just get her up on the roof,for it was a sod roof, and a fine crop of grass was growing there. Thehouse was close against a steep hill, and he thought if he laid a plankacross to the back of the roof he'd easily get the cow up.But he couldn't leave the churn, for his little baby was crawling abouton the floor. "If I leave it," he thought, "the child will tip it over."So he took the churn on his back, and went out with it. but then hethought he'd better first water the cow before he put her on the roof. sohe picked up a bucket to draw water out of the well. but, as he stoopedover the edge of the well, all the cream ran out of the churn over hisshoulder, and down into the well.Now it was near dinner time, and he hadn't even got the butter yet. sohe thought he'd best boil the porridge, and filled the pot with water, andhung it over the fire. When he had done that, it occurred to him that thecow might fall off the roof and break her legs or her neck. So he climbedup on the house to tie her up. He tied one end of the rope to the cow'sneck. He slipped the other end down the chimney and tied it around his ownleg. Then he had to hurry, for the water was now boiling in the pot, andhe had still to grind the oatmeal.He began to grind away. but while he was hard at it, the cow fell offthe roof, dragging the man up the chimney by the rope. There he stuckfast. and as for the cow, she hung halfway down the wall, swinging betweenheaven and earth, for she could neither get down nor up.Now the wife waited seven lengths and seven breadths for her husband tocome and call her home to dinner. but he never came. At last she thoughtshe'd waited long enough, and went home. But when she got home and saw thecow hanging there, she ran up and cut the rope with her scythe. When shedid this, her husband fell down from within the chimney. When the oldwoman came inside, she found him with his head in the porridge pot.