It was summer in the land of Denmark, and though for most of the yearthe country looks flat and ugly, it was beautiful now. The wheat wasyellow, the oats were green, the hay was dry and delicious to roll in,and from the old ruined house which nobody lived in, down to the edgeof the canal, was a forest of great burdocks, so tall that a wholefamily of children might have dwelt in them and never have been foundout.It was under these burdocks that a duck had built herself a warm nest,and was not sitting all day on six pretty eggs. Five of them werewhite, but the sixth, which was larger than the others, was of an uglygrey colour. The duck was always puzzled about that egg, and how itcame to be so different from the rest. Other birds might have thoughtthat when the duck went down in the morning and evening to the water tostretch her legs in a good swim, some lazy mother might have been onthe watch, and have popped her egg into the nest. But ducks are notclever at all, and are not quick at counting, so this duck did notworry herself about the matter, but just took care that the big eggshould be as warm as the rest.This was the first set of eggs that the duck had ever laid, and, tobegin with, she was very pleased and proud, and laughed at the othermothers, who were always neglecting their duties to gossip with eachother or to take little extra swims besides the two in the morning andevening that were necessary for health. But at length she grew tiredof sitting there all day. 'Surely eggs take longer hatching than theydid,' she said to herself. and she pined for a little amusement also.Still, she knew that if she left her eggs and the ducklings in them todie none of her friends would ever speak to her again. so there shestayed, only getting off the eggs several times a day to see if theshells were cracking which may have been the very reason why they didnot crack sooner.She had looked at the eggs at least a hundred and fifty times, when, toher joy, she saw a tiny crack on two of them, and scrambling back tothe nest she drew the eggs closer the one to the other, and never movedfor the whole of that day. Next morning she was rewarded by noticingcracks in the whole five eggs, and by midday two little yellow headswere poking out from the shells. This encouraged her so much that,after breaking the shells with her bill, so that the little creaturescould get free of them, she sat steadily for a whole night upon thenest, and before the sun arose the five white eggs were empty, and tenpairs of eyes were gazing out upon the green world.Now the duck had been carefully brought up, and did not like dirt, and,besides, broken shells are not at all comfortable things to sit or walkupon. so she pushed the rest out over the side, and felt delighted tohave some company to talk to till the big egg hatched. But day afterday went on, and the big egg showed no signs of cracking, and the duckgrew more and more impatient, and began to wish to consult her husband,who never came.'I can't think what is the matter with it,' the duck grumbled to herneighbour who had called in to pay her a visit. 'Why I could havehatched two broods in the time that this one has taken!''Let me look at it,' said the old neighbour. 'Ah, I thought so. it isa turkey's egg. Once, when I was young, they tricked me to sitting ona brood of turkey's eggs myself, and when they were hatched thecreatures were so stupid that nothing would make them learn to swim. Ihave no patience when I think of it.''Well, I will give it another chance,' sighed the duck, 'and if it doesnot come out of its shell in another twenty four hours, I will justleave it alone and teach the rest of them to swim properly and to findtheir own food. I really can't be expected to do two things at once.'And with a fluff of her feathers she pushed the egg into the middle ofthe nest.All through the next day she sat on, giving up even her morning bathfor fear that a blast of cold might strike the big egg. In theevening, when she ventured to peep, she thought she saw a tiny crack inthe upper part of the shell. Filled with hope, she went back to herduties, though she could hardly sleep all night for excitement. Whenshe woke with the first steaks of light she felt something stirringunder her. Yes, there it was at last. and as she moved, a big awkwardbird tumbled head foremost on the ground.There was no denying it was ugly, even the mother was forced to admitthat to herself, though she only said it was 'large' and 'strong.''You won't need any teaching when you are once in the water,' she toldhim, with a glance of surprise at the dull brown which covered hisback, and at his long naked neck. And indeed he did not, though he wasnot half so pretty to look at as the little yellow balls that followedher.When they returned they found the old neighbour on the bank waiting forthem to take them into the duckyard. 'No, it is not a young turkey,certainly,' whispered she in confidence to the mother, 'for though itis lean and skinny, and has no colour to speak of, yet there issomething rather distinguished about it, and it holds its head up well.''It is very kind of you to say so,' answered the mother, who by thistime had some secret doubts of its loveliness. 'Of course, when yousee it by itself it is all right, though it is different, somehow, fromthe others. But one cannot expect all one's children to be beautiful!'By this time they had reached the centre of the yard, where a very oldduck was sitting, who was treated with great respect by all the fowlspresent.'You must go up and bow low before her,' whispered the mother to herchildren, nodding her head in the direction of the old lady, 'and keepyour legs well apart, as you see me do. No well bred duckling turns inits toes. It is a sign of common parents.'The little ducks tried hard to make their small fat bodies copy themovements of their mother, and the old lady was quite pleased withthem. but the rest of the ducks looked on discontentedly, and said toeach other:'Oh, dear me, here are ever so many more! The yard is full already.and did you ever see anything quite as ugly as that great tallcreature? He is a disgrace to any brood. I shall go and chase himout!' So saying she put up her feathers, and running to the bigduckling bit his neck.The duckling gave a loud quack. it was the first time he had felt anypain, and at the sound his mother turned quickly.'Leave him alone,' she said fiercely, 'or I will send for his father.He was not troubling you.''No. but he is so ugly and awkward no one can put up with him,'answered the stranger. And though the duckling did not understand themeaning of the words, he felt he was being blamed, and became moreuncomfortable still when the old Spanish duck who ruled the fowlyardstruck in:'It certainly is a great pity he is so different from these beautifuldarlings. If he could only be hatched over again!'The poor little fellow drooped his head, and did not know where tolook, but was comforted when his mother answered:'He may not be quite as handsome as the others, but he swims better,and is very strong. I am sure he will make his way in the world as wellas anybody.''Well, you must feel quite at home here,' said the old duck waddlingoff. And so they did, all except the duckling, who was snapped at byeveryone when they thought his mother was not looking. Even theturkey cock, who was so big, never passed him without mocking words,and his brothers and sisters, who would not have noticed any differenceunless it had been put into their heads, soon became as rude and unkindas the rest.At last he could bear it no longer, and one day he fancied he saw signsof his mother turning against him too. so that night, when the ducksand hens were still asleep, he stole away through an open door, andunder cover of the burdock leaves scrambled on by the bank of thecanal, till he reached a wide grassy moor, full of soft marshy placeswhere the reeds grew. Here he lay down, but he was too tired and toofrightened to fall asleep, and with the earliest peep of the sun thereeds began to rustle, and he saw that he had blundered into a colonyof wild ducks. But as he could not run away again he stood up andbowed politely.'You are ugly,' said the wild ducks, when they had looked him wellover. 'but, however, it is no business of ours, unless you wish tomarry one of our daughters, and that we should not allow.' And theduckling answered that he had no idea of marrying anybody, and wantednothing but to be left alone after his long journey.So for two whole days he lay quietly among the reeds, eating such foodas he could find, and drinking the water of the moorland pool, till hefelt himself quite strong again. He wished he might stay were he wasfor ever, he was so comfortable and happy, away from everyone, withnobody to bite him and tell him how ugly he was.He was thinking these thoughts, when two young ganders caught sight ofhim as they were having their evening splash among the reeds, lookingfor their supper.'We are getting tired of this moor,' they said, 'and to morrow we thinkof trying another, where the lakes are larger and the feeding better.Will you come with us?''Is it nicer than this?' asked the duckling doubtfully. And the wordswere hardly out of his mouth, when 'Pif! pah!' and the two new  comerswere stretched dead beside him.At the sound of the gun the wild ducks in the rushes flew into the air,and for a few minutes the firing continued.Luckily for himself the duckling could not fly, and he floundered alongthrough the water till he could hide himself amidst some tall fernswhich grew in a hollow. But before he got there he met a huge creatureon four legs, which he afterwards knew to be a dog, who stood and gazedat him with a long red tongue hanging out of his mouth. The ducklinggrew cold with terror, and tried to hide his head beneath his littlewings. but the dog snuffed at him and passed on, and he was able toreach his place of shelter.'I am too ugly even for a dog to eat,' said he to himself. 'Well, thatis a great mercy.' And he curled himself up in the soft grass till theshots died away in the distance.When all had been quiet for a long time, and there were only stars tosee him, he crept out and looked about him.He would never go near a pool again, never, thought he. and seeing thatthe moor stretched far away in the opposite direction from which he hadcome, he marched bravely on till he got to a small cottage, whichseemed too tumbledown for the stones to hold together many hourslonger. Even the door only hung upon one hinge, and as the only lightin the room sprang from a tiny fire, the duckling edged himselfcautiously in, and lay down under a chair close to the broken door,from which he could get out if necessary. But no one seemed to see himor smell him. so he spend the rest of the night in peace.Now in the cottage dwelt an old woman, her cat, and a hen. and it wasreally they, and not she, who were masters of the house. The oldwoman, who passed all her days in spinning yarn, which she sold at thenearest town, loved both the cat and the hen as her own children, andnever contradicted them in any way. so it was their grace, and nothers, that the duckling would have to gain.It was only next morning, when it grew light, that they noticed theirvisitor, who stood trembling before them, with his eye on the doorready to escape at any moment. They did not, however, appear veryfierce, and the duckling became less afraid as they approached him.'Can you lay eggs?' asked the hen. And the duckling answered meekly:'No. I don't know how.' Upon which the hen turned her back, and thecat came forward.'Can you ruffle your fur when you are angry, or purr when you arepleased?' said she. And again the duckling had to admit that he coulddo nothing but swim, which did not seem of much use to anybody.So the cat and the hen went straight off to the old woman, who wasstill in bed.'Such a useless creature has taken refuge here,' they said. 'It callsitself a duckling. but it can neither lay eggs nor purr! What had webetter do with it?''Keep it, to be sure!' replied the old woman briskly. 'It is allnonsense about it not laying eggs. Anyway, we will let it stay herefor a bit, and see what happens.'So the duckling remained for three weeks, and shared the food of thecat and the hen. but nothing in the way of eggs happened at all. Thenthe sun came out, and the air grew soft, and the duckling grew tired ofbeing in a hut, and wanted with all his might to have a swim. And onemorning he got so restless that even his friends noticed it.'What is the matter?' asked the hen. and the duckling told her.'I am so longing for the water again. You can't think how delicious itis to put your head under the water and dive straight to the bottom.''I don't think I should enjoy it,' replied the hen doubtfully. 'And Idon't think the cat would like it either.' And the cat, when asked,agreed there was nothing she would hate so much.'I can't stay here any longer, I Must get to the water,' repeated theduck. And the cat and the hen, who felt hurt and offended, answeredshortly:'Very well then, go.'The duckling would have liked to say good  bye, and thank them fortheir kindness, as he was polite by nature. but they had both turnedtheir backs on him, so he went out of the rickety door feeling rathersad. But, in spite of himself, he could not help a thrill of joy whenhe was out in the air and water once more, and cared little for therude glances of the creatures he met. For a while he was quite happyand content. but soon the winter came on, and snow began to fall, andeverything to grow very wet and uncomfortable. And the duckling soonfound that it is one thing to enjoy being in the water, and quiteanother to like being damp on land.The sun was setting one day, like a great scarlet globe, and the river,to the duckling's vast bewilderment, was getting hard and slippery,when he heard a sound of whirring wings, and high up in the air a flockof swans were flying. They were as white as snow which had fallenduring the night, and their long necks with yellow bills were stretchedsouthwards, for they were going they did not quite know whither butto a land where the sun shone all day. Oh, if he only could have gonewith them! But that was not possible, of course. and besides, whatsort of companion could an ugly thing like him be to those beautifulbeings? So he walked sadly down to a sheltered pool and dived to thevery bottom, and tried to think it was the greatest happiness he coulddream of. But, all the same, he knew it wasn't!And every morning it grew colder and colder, and the duckling had hardwork to keep himself warm. Indeed, it would be truer to say that henever was warm at all. and at last, after one bitter night, his legsmoved so slowly that the ice crept closer and closer, and when themorning light broke he was caught fast, as in a trap. and soon hissenses went from him.A few hours more and the poor duckling's life had been ended. But, bygood fortune, a man was crossing the river on his way to his work, andsaw in a moment what had happened. He had on thick wooden shoes, andhe went and stamped so hard on the ice that it broke, and then hepicked up the duckling and tucked him under his sheepskin coat, wherehis frozen bones began to thaw a little.Instead of going on his work, the man turned back and took the bird tohis children, who gave him a warm mess to eat and put him in a box bythe fire, and when they came back from school he was much morecomfortable than he had been since he had left the old woman's cottage.They were kind little children, and wanted to play with him. but,alas! the poor fellow had never played in his life, and thought theywanted to tease him, and flew straight into the milk pan, and then intothe butter dish, and from that into the meal  barrel, and at last,terrified at the noise and confusion, right out of the door, and hidhimself in the snow amongst the bushes at the back of the house.He never could tell afterwards exactly how he had spent the rest of thewinter. He only knew that he was very miserable and that he never hadenough to eat. But by and by things grew better. The earth becamesofter, the sun hotter, the birds sang, and the flowers once moreappeared in the grass. When he stood up, he felt different, somehow,from what he had done before he fell asleep among the reeds to which hehad wandered after he had escaped from the peasant's hut. His bodyseemed larger, and his wings stronger. Something pink looked at himfrom the side of a hill. He thought he would fly towards it and seewhat it was.Oh, how glorious it felt to be rushing through the air, wheeling firstone way and then the other! He had never thought that flying could belike that! The duckling was almost sorry when he drew near the pinkcloud and found it was made up of apple blossoms growing beside acottage whose garden ran down to the banks of the canal. He flutteredslowly to the ground and paused for a few minutes under a thicket ofsyringas, and while he was gazing about him, there walked slowly past aflock of the same beautiful birds he had seen so many months ago.Fascinated, he watched them one by one step into the canal, and floatquietly upon the waters as if they were part of them.'I will follow them,' said the duckling to himself. 'ugly though I am,I would rather be killed by them than suffer all I have suffered fromcold and hunger, and from the ducks and fowls who should have treatedme kindly.' And flying quickly down to the water, he swam after themas fast as he could.It did not take him long to reach them, for they had stopped to rest ina green pool shaded by a tree whose branches swept the water. Anddirectly they saw him coming some of the younger ones swam out to meethim with cries of welcome, which again the duckling hardly understood.He approached them glad, yet trembling, and turning to one of the olderbirds, who by this time had left the shade of the tree, he said:'If I am to die, I would rather you should kill me. I don't know why Iwas ever hatched, for I am too ugly to live.' And as he spoke, hebowed his head and looked down into the water.Reflected in the still pool he saw many white shapes, with long necksand golden bills, and, without thinking, he looked for the dull greybody and the awkward skinny neck. But no such thing was there.Instead, he beheld beneath him a beautiful white swan!'The new one is the best of all,' said the children when they came downto feed the swans with biscuit and cake before going to bed. 'Hisfeathers are whiter and his beak more golden than the rest.' And whenhe heard that, the duckling thought that it was worth while havingundergone all the persecution and loneliness that he had passedthrough, as otherwise he would never have known what it was to bereally happy.