Once upon a time there lived a man who had two sons. When they grew upthe elder went to seek his fortune in a far country, and for many yearsno one heard anything about him. Meanwhile the younger son stayed athome with his father, who died at last in a good old age, leaving greatriches behind him.For some time the son who stayed at home spent his father's wealthfreely, believing that he alone remained to enjoy it. But, one day, ashe was coming down stairs, he was surprised to see a stranger enter thehall, looking about as if the house belonged to him.'Have you forgotten me?' asked the man.'I can't forget a person I have never known,' was the rude answer.'I am your brother,' replied the stranger, 'and I have returned homewithout the money I hoped to have made. And, what is worse, they tellme in the village that my father is dead. I would have counted my lostgold as nothing if I could have seen him once more.''He died six months ago,' said the rich brother, 'and he left you, asyour portion, the old wooden chest that stands in the loft. You hadbetter go there and look for it. I have no more time to waste.' And hewent his way.So the wanderer turned his steps to the loft, which was at the top ofthe storehouse, and there he found the wooden chest, so old that itlooked as if it were dropping to pieces.'What use is this old thing to me?' he said to himself. 'Oh, well, itwill serve to light a fire at which I can warm myself. so things mightbe worse after all.'Placing the chest on his back, the man, whose name was Jose, set outfor his inn, and, borrowing a hatchet, began to chop up the box. Indoing so he discovered a secret drawer, and in it lay a paper. Heopened the paper, not knowing what it might contain, and was astonishedto find that it was the acknowledgment of a large debt that was owingto his father. Putting the precious writing in his pocket, he hastilyinquired of the landlord where he could find the man whose name waswritten inside, and he ran out at once in search of him.The debtor proved to be an old miser, who lived at the other end of thevillage. He had hoped for many months that the paper he had writtenhad been lost or destroyed, and, indeed, when he saw it, was veryunwilling to pay what he owed. However, the stranger threatened todrag him before the king, and when the miser saw that there was no helpfor it he counted out the coins one by one. The stranger picked themup and put them in his pocket, and went back to his inn feeling that hewas now a rich man.A few weeks after this he was walking through the streets of thenearest town, when he met a poor woman crying bitterly. He stopped andasked her what was the matter, and she answered between her sobs thather husband was dying, and, to make matters worse, a creditor whom hecould not pay was anxious to have him taken to prison.'Comfort yourself,' said the stranger kindly. 'they shall neither sendyour husband to prison nor sell your goods. I will not only pay hisdebts but, if he dies, the cost of his burial also. And now go home,and nurse him as well as you can.'And so she did. but, in spite of her care, the husband died, and wasburied by the stranger. But everything cost more than he expected, andwhen all was paid he found that only three gold pieces were left.'What am I to do now?' said he to himself. 'I think I had better go tocourt, and enter into the service of the king.'At first he was only a servant, who carried the king the water for hisbath, and saw that his bed was made in a particular fashion. But hedid his duties so well that his master soon took notice of him, and ina short time he rose to be a gentleman of the bedchamber.Now, when this happened the younger brother had spent all the money hehad inherited, and did not know how to make any for himself. He thenbethought him of the king's favourite, and went whining to the palaceto beg that his brother, whom he had so ill used, would give him hisprotection, and find him a place. The elder, who was always ready tohelp everyone spoke to the king on his behalf, and the next day theyoung man took up is work at court.Unfortunately, the new comer was by nature spiteful and envious, andcould not bear anyone to have better luck than himself. By dint ofspying through keyholes and listening at doors, he learned that theking, old and ugly though he was, had fallen in love with the PrincessBella Flor, who would have nothing to say to him, and had hiddenherself in some mountain castle, no one knew where.'That will do nicely,' thought the scoundrel, rubbing his hands. 'Itwill be quite easy to get the king to send my brother in search of her,and if he returns without finding her, his head will be the forfeit.Either way, he will be out of MY path.'So he went at once to the Lord High Chamberlain and craved an audienceof the king, to whom he declared he wished to tell some news of thehighest importance. The king admitted him into the presence chamberwithout delay, and bade him state what he had to say, and to be quickabout it.'Oh, sire! the Princess Bella Flor ' answered the man, and thenstopped as if afraid.'What of the Princess Bella Flor?' asked the king impatiently.'I have heard it is whispered at court that your majesty desires toknow where she lies in hiding.''I would give half my kingdom to the man who will bring her to me,'cried the king, eagerly. 'Speak on, knave. has a bird of the airrevealed to you the secret?''It is not I, but my brother, who knows,' replied the traitor. 'if yourmajesty would ask him ' But before the words were out of his mouth theking had struck a blow with his sceptre on a golden plate that hung onthe wall.'Order Jose to appear before me instantly,' he shouted to the servantwho ran to obey his orders, so great was the noise his majesty hadmade. and when Jose entered the hall, wondering what in the world couldbe the matter, the king was nearly dumb from rage and excitement.'Bring me the Princess Bella Flor this moment,' stammered he, 'for ifyou return without her I will have you drowned!' And without anotherword he left the hall, leaving Jose staring with surprise and horror.'How can I find the Princess Bella Flor when I have never even seenher?' thought he. 'But it is no use staying here, for I shall only beput to death.' And he walked slowly to the stables to choose himself ahorse.There were rows upon rows of fine beasts with their names written ingold above their stalls, and Jose was looking uncertainly from one tothe other, wondering which he should choose, when an old white horseturned its head and signed to him to approach.'Take me,' it said in a gentle whisper, 'and all will go well.'Jose still felt so bewildered with the mission that the king had givenhim that he forgot to be astonished at hearing a horse talk.Mechanically he laid his hand on the bridle and led the white horse outof the stable. He was about to mount on his back, when the animalspoke again:'Pick up those three loaves of bread which you see there, and put themin your pocket.'Jose did as he was told, and being in a great hurry to get away, askedno questions, but swung himself into the saddle.They rode far without meeting any adventures, but at length they cameto an ant hill, and the horse stopped.'Crumble those three loaves for the ants,' he said. But Jose hesitated.'Why, we may want them ourselves!' answered he.'Never mind that. give them to the ants all the same. Do not lose achance of helping others.' And when the loaves lay in crumbs on theroad, the horse galloped on.By and by they entered a rocky pass between two mountains, and herethey saw an eagle which had been caught in a hunter's net.'Get down and cut the meshes of the net, and set the poor bird free,'said the horse.'But it will take so long,' objected Jose, 'and we may miss theprincess.''Never mind that. do not lose a chance of helping others,' answered thehorse. And when the meshes were cut, and the eagle was free, the horsegalloped on.The had ridden many miles, and at last they came to a river, where theybeheld a little fish lying gasping on the sand, and the horse said:'Do you see that little fish? It will die if you do not put it back inthe water.''But, really, we shall never find the Princess Bella Flor if we wasteour time like this!' cried Jose.'We never waste time when we are helping others,' answered the horse.And soon the little fish was swimming happily away.A little while after they reached a castle, which was built in themiddle of a very thick wood, and right in front was the PrincessBella Flor feeding her hens.'Now listen,' said the horse. 'I am going to give all sorts of littlehops and skips, which will amuse the Princess Bella Flor. Then shewill tell you that she would like to ride a little way, and you musthelp her to mount. When she is seated I shall begin to neigh and kick,and you must say that I have never carried a woman before, and that youhad better get up behind so as to be able to manage me. Once on myback we will go like the wind to the king's palace.'Jose did exactly as the horse told him, and everything fell out as theanimal prophesied. so that it was not until they were gallopingbreathlessly towards the palace that the princess knew that she wastaken captive. She said nothing, however, but quietly opened her apronwhich contained the bran for the chickens, and in a moment it layscattered on the ground.'Oh, I have let fall my bran!' cried she. 'please get down and pick itup for me.' But Jose only answered:'We shall find plenty of bran where we are going.' And the horsegalloped on.They were now passing through a forest, and the princess took out herhandkerchief and threw it upwards, so that it stuck in one of thetopmost branches of a tree.'Dear me. how stupid! I have let my handkerchief blow away,' said she.'Will you climb up and get it for me?' But Jose answered:'We shall find plenty of handkerchiefs where we are going.' And thehorse galloped on.After the wood they reached a river, and the princess slipped a ringoff her finger and let it roll into the water.'How careless of me,' gasped she, beginning to sob. 'I have lost myfavourite ring. DO stop for a moment and look if you can see it.' ButJose answered:'You will find plenty of rings where you are going.' And the horsegalloped on.At last they entered the palace gates, and the king's heart boundedwith joy at beholding his beloved Princess Bella Flor. But theprincess brushed him aside as if he had been a fly, and locked herselfinto the nearest room, which she would not open for all his entreaties.'Bring me the three things I lost on the way, and perhaps I may thinkabout it,' was all she would say. And, in despair, the king was drivento take counsel of Jose.'There is no remedy that I can see,' said his majesty, 'but that you,who know where they are, should go and bring them back. And if youreturn without them I will have you drowned.'Poor Jose was much troubled at these words. He thought that he haddone all that was required of him, and that his life was safe.However, he bowed low, and went out to consult his friend the horse.'Do not vex yourself,' said the horse, when he had heard the story.'jump up, and we will go and look for the things.' And Jose mounted atonce.They rode on till they came to the ant hill, and then the horse asked:'Would you like to have the bran?''What is the use of liking?' answered Jose.'Well, call the ants, and tell them to fetch it for you. and, if someof it has been scattered by the wind, to bring in its stead the grainsthat were in the cakes you gave them.' Jose listened in surprise. Hedid not much believe in the horse's plan. but he could not think ofanything better, so he called to the ants, and bade them collect thebran as fast as they could.Then he saw under a tree and waited, while his horse cropped the greenturf.'Look there!' said the animal, suddenly raising its head. and Joselooked behind him and saw a little mountain of bran, which he put intoa bag that was hung over his saddle.'Good deeds bear fruit sooner or later,' observed the horse. 'but mountagain, as we have far to go.'When they arrived at the tree, they saw the handkerchief flutteringlike a flag from the topmost branch, and Jose's spirits sank again.'How am I to get that handkerchief?' cried he. 'why I should needJacob's ladder!' But the horse answered:'Do not be frightened. call to the eagle you set free from the net, hewill bring it to you.'So Jose called to the eagle, and the eagle flew to the top of the treeand brought back the handkerchief in its beak. Jose thanked him, andvaulting on his horse they rode on to the river.A great deal of rain had fallen in the night, and the river, instead ofbeing clear as it was before, was dark and troubled.'How am I to fetch the ring from the bottom of this river when I do notknow exactly where it was dropped, and cannot even see it?' asked Jose.But the horse answered: 'Do not be frightened. call the little fishwhose life you saved, and she will bring it to you.'So he called to the fish, and the fish dived to the bottom and slippedbehind big stones, and moved little ones with its tail till it foundthe ring, and brought it to Jose in its mouth.Well pleased with all he had done, Jose returned to the palace. butwhen the king took the precious objects to Bella Flor, she declaredthat she would never open her door till the bandit who had carried heroff had been fried in oil.'I am very sorry,' said the king to Jose, 'I really would rather not.but you see I have no choice.'While the oil was being heated in the great caldron, Jose went to thestables to inquire of his friend the horse if there was no way for himto escape.'Do not be frightened,' said the horse. 'Get on my back, and I willgallop till my whole body is wet with perspiration, then rub it allover your skin, and no matter how hot the oil may be you will neverfeel it.'Jose did not ask any more questions, but did as the horse bade him. andmen wondered at his cheerful face as they lowered him into the caldronof boiling oil. He was left there till Bella Flor cried that he mustbe cooked enough. Then out came a youth so young and handsome, thateveryone fell in love with him, and Bella Flor most of all.As for the old king, he saw that he had lost the game. and in despairhe flung himself into the caldron, and was fried instead of Jose. ThenJose was proclaimed king, on condition that he married Bella Flor whichhe promised to do the next day. But first he went to the stables andsought out the horse, and said to him: 'It is to you that I owe my lifeand my crown. Why have you done all this for me?'And the horse answered: 'I am the soul of that unhappy man for whom youspent all your fortune. And when I saw you in danger of death I beggedthat I might help you, as you had helped me. For, as I told you, Gooddeeds bear their own fruit!'