One fine evening a young princess went into a wood, and sat down by theside of a cool spring of water. She had a golden ball in her hand, whichwas her favorite plaything, and she amused herself with tossing it intothe air and catching it again as it fell. After a time she threw it up sohigh that when she stretched out her hand to catch it, the ball boundedaway and rolled along upon the ground, till at last it fell into thespring. The princess looked into the spring after her ball. but it wasvery deep, so deep that she could not see the bottom of it.Then she began to lament her loss, and said, "Alas! If I could only getmy ball again, I would give all my fine clothes and jewels, and everythingthat I have in the world."Whilst she was speaking a frog put its head out of the water and said,"Princess, why do you weep so bitterly?""Alas! said she, "What can you do for me, you nasty frog? My goldenball has fallen into the spring."The frog said, "I want not your pearls and jewels and fine clothes. butif you will love me and let me live with you, and eat from your littlegolden plate, and sleep upon your little bed, I will bring you your ballagain.""What nonsense," thought the princess, "This silly frog is talking! Hecan never get out of the well. However, he may be able to get my ball forme. and therefore I will promise him what he asks." So she said to thefrog, "Well, if you will bring me my ball, I promise to do all yourequire."Then the frog put his head down, and dived deep under the water. andafter a little while he came up again with the ball in his mouth, andthrew it on the ground. As soon as the young princess saw her ball, sheran to pick it up, and was so overjoyed to have it in her hand again, thatshe never thought of the frog, but ran home with it as fast as she could.The frog called after her, "Stay, princess, and take me with you as youpromised." But she did not stop to hear a word.The next day, just as the princess had sat down to dinner, she heard astrange noise, tap tap, as if somebody was coming up the marble staircase.And soon afterwards something knocked gently at the door, and said,Open the door, my princess dear,Open the door to thy true love here!And mind the words that thou and I saidBy the fountain cool in the greenwood shade.Then the princess ran to the door and opened it, and there she saw thefrog, whom she had quite forgotten. She was terribly frightened, andshutting the door as fast as she could, came back to her seat. The king,her father, asked her what had frightened her."There is a nasty frog," said she, "at the door, who lifted my ball outof the spring this morning. I promised him that he should live with mehere, thinking that he could never get out of the spring. but there he isat the door and wants to come in!"While she was speaking the frog knocked again at the door, and said,Open the door, my princess dear,Open the door to thy true love here!And mind the words that thou and I saidBy the fountain cool in the greenwood shade.The king said to the young princess, "As you have made a promise, youmust keep it. So go and let him in."She did so, and the frog hopped into the room, and came up close to thetable. "Pray lift me upon a chair," said he to the princess, "and let mesit next to you." As soon as she had done this, the frog said, "Put yourplate closer to me that I may eat out of it." This she did. And when hehad eaten as much as he could, he said, "Now I am tired. Carry me upstairsand put me into your little bed."And the princess took him up in her hand and put him upon the pillow ofher own little bed, where he slept all night long. As soon as it was lighthe jumped up, hopped downstairs, and went out of the house."Now," thought the princess, "he is gone, and I shall be troubled withhim no more."But she was mistaken. for when night came again, she heard the sametapping at the door, and when she opened it, the frog came in and sleptupon her pillow as before till the morning broke.And the third night he did the same. but when the princess awoke on thefollowing morning, she was astonished to see, instead of the frog, ahandsome prince gazing on her with the most beautiful eyes that ever wereseen, and standing at the head of her bed.He told her that he had been enchanted by a malicious fairy, who hadchanged him into the form of a frog, in which he was fated to remain tillsome princess should take him out of the spring and let him sleep upon herbed for three nights. "You," said the prince, "have broken this cruelcharm, and now I have nothing to wish for but that you should go with meinto my father's kingdom, where I will marry you, and love you as long asyou live."The young princess, you may be sure, was not long in giving herconsent. and as they spoke a splendid carriage drove up with eightbeautiful horses decked with plumes of feathers and golden harness, andbehind rode the prince's servant, the faithful Henry, who had bewailed themisfortune of his dear master so long and bitterly that his heart had wellnigh burst. Then all set out full of joy for the prince's kingdom, wherethey arrived safely, and lived happily a great many years.