Once upon a time there were a man and a woman to whom the dear Lord hadgiven a wonderfully beautiful daughter. The parents and the child prayed,and worked, and lived good and wholesome lives.One day when the daughter had just reached her fifteenth year asplendid carriage drove up to their little hut. A distinguished gentlemanemerged from it and said to the parents, "Do you not have a daughter whomI could marry?""No," was the answer. "To be sure, we do have a daughter, but sheshould not get married yet."However, the gentleman would not accept this response. He had hishorses unhitched, and he stayed there for three days. During these threedays he was so pious and polite, and furthermore he had so much money andother valuables, that he won the mother's approval already on the firstday, on the second day that of the daughter, and finally on the third daythat of the father as well.The father had repeatedly said to his wife, "I do not have a goodfeeling about this!" but she made him feel good about it, knowing how tocoax him with sweet words into giving his approval.As evening of the third day approached they took leave of theirdaughter, and asked the distinguished gentleman to take good care of her.He promised to do so, as he hurried away with his beautiful bride.Now this distinguished gentleman was in truth a wild robber andcannibal. On their way he told the poor child nothing but horror stories,and when he pulled her from his carriage, he said to her, laughing, "Wouldyou prefer to be boiled in oil or cooked in water? You are a deliciousmorsel, and because I am so fond of you, I will give you your choice."The terrified bride could not answer, and the cannibal pushed her intoa cave, saying further, "Ask the dear Lord to give you a good idea, andduring the night prepare yourself to die!" Then he went into an adjoiningcave.When the girl came to her senses, she heard a terrible commotion in thenext cave. The robber was beating his housekeeper, who in turn wasscolding and scratching him. Now she was an old witch. She became veryangry when he brought home a young girl, and for this she received a goodbeating. That is how the two of them behaved.That night the cannibal slept by himself in his cave, and the old witchstayed with the young bride. The latter, however, did not close her eyes,but instead prayed and wept continuously. The old witch was upset that shewas not able to sleep. She was also somewhat touched and still angry withthe cannibal. At last she croaked, "Stop your whimpering! Just what didthat beast tell you?"The girl answered, "He asked me if I would prefer to be boiled in oilor cooked in water."The witch laughed and replied, "And you have no desire for either one,you poor little fool!"This sounded so heartless that it blocked the poor girl's throat."Don't be so sensitive!" the old hag continued, when she received noanswer. "Do you want me to tickle you?" And she scratched the girl untilshe cried out loudly. "You have a very good voice!" scoffed the witch,then continued, "What I am about to tell you is thanks to that ruthlesstyrant's blows. Tomorrow morning when he asks you, answer that you wouldprefer to be cooked in water. Then you yourself will have to carry thewater, for he is too proud to do so himself. I will pretend to be sick.When you reach the well, take off your clothes and put them on thewell pole as though you were dressing a real person, then hide yourself inthe hollow tree, the seventh tree on the right hand side of the path. Nowgive me some peace, or I myself will divulge the plan."Very early the next morning the cannibal came into the cave, and whenthe girl answered his question by saying that she would prefer to becooked in water, he kicked the witch with his foot and shouted, "Go getsome water while I slaughter my little dove.""Fetch your own water!" croaked the witch. "You have lamed both of myarms."The cannibal cursed and ordered his bride, "Take this bucket and getsome water so that I can cook you!"She took the bucket, put her clothes onto the well pole, and crept intothe hollow tree.When she did not return, the robber shouted, "Are you waiting for yoursweetheart there at the well? Is that why you are standing there withoutmoving? If you don't come back immediately, I will see to it that he comesto you!"The pole did not pay the least attention to his scoffing, nor did iteven turn around when the cannibal began to curse and threaten. Whenfinally a shot from the cave hit the pole, it neither cried nor fell over."Is that girl bulletproof?" shouted the cannibal, took a broadsword andran to the well.How he seethed when he came closer and found the strange large doll!Boiling with rage, he ran with a few leaps back into his cave, tied hissword around his waist, mounted his faithful steed, shouted to the witch,"Fill the pot with oil and bring it to a boil!" and hurried away,accompanied by a large bloodhound.Soon he came to the hollow tree, where the dog stopped and barked andscratched. The robber drew his worthy sword and thrust it through thebark, cutting the maiden's right big toe. Bright blood flowed from it ontothe sword, but when he pulled it out again, the blood had disappeared. Sohe rode on.When the girl could no longer hear the galloping horse and the barkingdog she climbed out of the tree and crept into a deep ditch, then coveredherself with twigs.A half hour later the angry robber returned. The dog stopped next tothe ditch, and the robber thrust his sword into the twigs, cutting thesame toe on its other side. Again blood flowed from it, but when he pulledback the sword, it was as clean as before.The poor bride put her ear against the side of the ditch, and when shecould no longer hear the earth trembling, she wearily climbed out andlimped to the well in order to dress herself a little. She had just washedherself when the robber returned. Seeing her, he shouted loudly for joy.He had just pulled out his worthy sword in order to cut off her head, whena bullet came out of the woods and struck him down.The prince had just been hunting in the vicinity, and he was the onewho shot the cannibal. When he came nearer and saw the beautiful maiden,his heart burned with love for her. The robber was cursing and writhing inhis own blood, and the prince had him thrown into the pot filled with oil.He took the maiden back to his castle as his wife, and there they livedlong and happily together.