Once upon a time there was a princess who went out into a forest and satnext to a cool well. She took great pleasure in throwing a golden ballinto the air and catching it, but once it went too high. She held out herhand with her fingers curved to catch it, but it fell to the ground androlled and rolled right into the water.Horrified, the princess followed it with her eyes, but the well was sodeep that she could not see its bottom. Then she began to cry bitterly,"I'd give anything, if only I could get my ball back: my clothes, myprecious stones, my pearls, anything in the world." At this a frog stuckhis head out of the water and said, "Princess, why are you crying sobitterly?""Oh," she said, "you ugly frog, how can you help me? My golden ball hasfallen into the well."The frog said, "I do not want your pearls, your precious stones, and yourclothes, but if you'll accept me as a companion and let me sit next to youand eat from your plate and sleep in your bed, and if you'll love andcherish me, then I'll bring your ball back to you."The princess thought, "What is this stupid frog trying to say? After all,he does have to stay here in the water. But still, maybe he can get myball. I'll go ahead and say yes," and she said aloud, "Yes, for all Icare. Just bring me back my golden ball, and I'll promise everything."The frog stuck his head under the water and dove to the bottom. Hereturned a short time later with the golden ball in his mouth and threw itonto the land. When the princess saw her ball once again, she rushedtoward it, picked it up, and was so happy to have it in her hand again,that she could think of nothing else than to run home with it. The frogcalled after her, "Wait, princess, take me with you like you promised,"but she paid no attention to him.The next day the princess was sitting at her table when she heardsomething coming up the marble steps: plop, plop. Then there came aknock at the door, and a voice called out, "Princess, princess, open thedoor for me!" She ran and opened the door. It was the frog, whom she hadput completely out of her mind. Frightened, she slammed the door shut andreturned to the table.The king saw that her heart was pounding and asked, "Why are you afraid?""There is a disgusting frog out there," she said, "who got my golden ballout of the water. I promised him that he could be my companion, but Ididn't think that he could leave his water, but now he is just outside thedoor and wants to come in." Just then there came a second knock at thedoor, and a voice called out:Youngest daughter of the king,Open up the door for me,Don't you know what yesterday,You said to me down by the well?Youngest daughter of the king,Open up the door for me,The king said, "What you have promised, you must keep. Go and let thefrog in." She obeyed, and the frog hopped in, then followed her up to herchair.After she had sat down again, he called out, "Lift me up onto your chairand let me sit next to you." The princess did not want to, but the kingcommanded her to do it. When the frog was seated next to her he said,"Now push your golden plate closer. I want to eat from it." She had todo this as well. When he had eaten all he wanted, he said, "Now I amtired and want to sleep. Take me to your room, make your bed, so that wecan lie in it together."The princess was horrified when she heard that. She was afraid of thecold frog and did not dare to even touch him, and yet he was supposed tolie next to her in her bed. she began to cry and didn't want to at all.Then the king became angry and commanded her to do what she had promised.There was no helping it. she had to do what her father wanted, but in herheart she was bitterly angry. She picked up the frog with two fingers,carried him to her room, and climbed into bed, but instead of laying himnext to herself, she threw him bang! against the wall. "Now you willleave me in peace, you ugly frog!" But when the frog came down onto thebed, he was a handsome young prince, and he was her dear companion, andshe held him in esteem as she had promised, and they fell asleep togetherwith pleasure.The next morning the prince's faithful Heinrich arrived in a splendidcarriage drawn by eight horses and decorated with feathers and glisteningwith gold. He had been so saddened by the prince's enchantment that hehad had to place three iron bands around his heart to keep it frombursting in sorrow. The prince climbed into the carriage with theprincess. His faithful servant stood at the rear to drive them to hiskingdom. After they had gone a short distance, the prince heard a loudcrack. He turned around and said:"Heinrich, the carriage is breaking apart.""No, my lord, the carriage it's not,But one of the bands surrounding my heart,That suffered such great pain,When you were sitting in the well,When you were a frog."Once again, and then once again the prince heard a cracking sound andthought that the carriage was breaking apart, but it was the bandsspringing from faithful Heinrich's heart because his master was nowredeemed and happy.