Once upon a time there was an old man who lived in a little hut in themiddle of a forest. His wife was dead, and he had only one son, whom heloved dearly. Near their hut was a group of birch trees, in which someblack game had made their nests, and the youth had often begged hisfather's permission to shoot the birds, but the old man always strictlyforbade him to do anything of the kind.One day, however, when the father had gone to a little distance tocollect some sticks for the fire, the boy fetched his bow, and shot at abird that was just flying towards its nest. But he had not taken properaim, and the bird was only wounded, and fluttered along the ground. Theboy ran to catch it, but though he ran very fast, and the bird seemed toflutter along very slowly, he never could quite come up with it. it wasalways just a little in advance. But so absorbed was he in the chasethat he did not notice for some time that he was now deep in the forest,in a place where he had never been before. Then he felt it would befoolish to go any further, and he turned to find his way home.He thought it would be easy enough to follow the path along which he hadcome, but somehow it was always branching off in unexpected directions.He looked about for a house where he might stop and ask his way, butthere was not a sign of one anywhere, and he was afraid to stand still,for it was cold, and there were many stories of wolves being seen inthat part of the forest. Night fell, and he was beginning to start atevery sound, when suddenly a magician came running towards him, witha pack of wolves snapping at his heels. Then all the boy's couragereturned to him. He took his bow, and aiming an arrow at the largestwolf, shot him through the heart, and a few more arrows soon put therest to flight. The magician was full of gratitude to his deliverer, andpromised him a reward for his help if the youth would go back with himto his house.'Indeed there is nothing that would be more welcome to me than a night'slodging,' answered the boy. 'I have been wandering all day in theforest, and did not know how to get home again.'Come with me, you must be hungry as well as tired,' said the magician,and led the way to his house, where the guest flung himself on a bed,and went fast asleep. But his host returned to the forest to get somefood, for the larder was empty.While he was absent the housekeeper went to the boy's room and triedto wake him. She stamped on the floor, and shook him and called to him,telling him that he was in great danger, and must take flight at once.But nothing would rouse him, and if he did ever open his eyes he shutthem again directly.Soon after, the magician came back from the forest, and told thehousekeeper to bring them something to eat. The meal was quickly ready,and the magician called to the boy to come down and eat it, but hecould not be wakened, and they had to sit down to supper without him.By and by the magician went out into the wood again for some morehunting, and on his return he tried afresh to waken the youth. Butfinding it quite impossible, he went back for the third time to theforest.While he was absent the boy woke up and dressed himself. Then he camedownstairs and began to talk to the housekeeper. The girl had heardhow he had saved her master's life, so she said nothing more about hisrunning away, but instead told him that if the magician offered him thechoice of a reward, he was to ask for the horse which stood in the thirdstall of the stable.By and by the old man came back and they all sat down to dinner. Whenthey had finished the magician said: 'Now, my son, tell me what you willhave as the reward of your courage?''Give me the horse that stands in the third stall of your stable,'answered the youth. 'For I have a long way to go before I get home, andmy feet will not carry me so far.''Ah! my son,' replied the magician, 'it is the best horse in my stablethat you want! Will not anything else please you as well?'But the youth declared that it was the horse, and the horse only, thathe desired, and in the end the old man gave way. And besides the horse,the magician gave him a zither, a fiddle, and a flute, saying: 'If youare in danger, touch the zither. and if no one comes to your aid, thenplay on the fiddle. but if that brings no help, blow on the flute.'The youth thanked the magician, and fastening his treasures about himmounted the horse and rode off. He had already gone some miles when,to his great surprise, the horse spoke, and said: 'It is no use yourreturning home just now, your father will only beat you. Let us visit afew towns first, and something lucky will be sure to happen to us.'This advice pleased the boy, for he felt himself almost a man by thistime, and thought it was high time he saw the world. When they enteredthe capital of the country everyone stopped to admire the beauty of thehorse. Even the king heard of it, and came to see the splendid creaturewith his own eyes. Indeed, he wanted directly to buy it, and told theyouth he would give any price he liked. The young man hesitated for amoment, but before he could speak, the horse contrived to whisper tohim:'Do not sell me, but ask the king to take me to his stable, and feed methere. then his other horses will become just as beautiful as I.'The king was delighted when he was told what the horse had said,and took the animal at once to the stables, and placed it in his ownparticular stall. Sure enough, the horse had scarcely eaten a mouthfulof corn out of the manger, when the rest of the horses seemed to haveundergone a transformation. Some of them were old favourites which theking had ridden in many wars, and they bore the signs of age and ofservice. But now they arched their heads, and pawed the ground withtheir slender legs as they had been wont to do in days long gone by. Theking's heart beat with delight, but the old groom who had had the careof them stood crossly by, and eyed the owner of this wonderful creaturewith hate and envy. Not a day passed without his bringing some storyagainst the youth to his master, but the king understood all about thematter and paid no attention. At last the groom declared that theyoung man had boasted that he could find the king's war horse which hadstrayed into the forest several years ago, and had not been heard ofsince. Now the king had never ceased to mourn for his horse, so thistime he listened to the tale which the groom had invented, and sent forthe youth. 'Find me my horse in three days,' said he, 'or it will be theworse for you.'The youth was thunderstruck at this command, but he only bowed, and wentoff at once to the stable.'Do not worry yourself,' answered his own horse. 'Ask the king to giveyou a hundred oxen, and to let them be killed and cut into small pieces.Then we will start on our journey, and ride till we reach a certainriver. There a horse will come up to you, but take no notice of him.Soon another will appear, and this also you must leave alone, but whenthe third horse shows itself, throw my bridle over it.'Everything happened just as the horse had said, and the third horse wassafely bridled. Then the other horse spoke again: 'The magician's ravenwill try to eat us as we ride away, but throw it some of the oxen'sflesh, and then I will gallop like the wind, and carry you safe out ofthe dragon's clutches.'So the young man did as he was told, and brought the horse back to theking.The old stableman was very jealous, when he heard of it, and wonderedwhat he could do to injure the youth in the eyes of his royal master.At last he hit upon a plan, and told the king that the young man hadboasted that he could bring home the king's wife, who had vanished manymonths before, without leaving a trace behind her. Then the king badethe young man come into his presence, and desired him to fetch the queenhome again, as he had boasted he could do. And if he failed, his headwould pay the penalty.The poor youth's heart stood still as he listened. Find the queen? Buthow was he to do that, when nobody in the palace had been able to doso! Slowly he walked to the stable, and laying his head on his horse'sshoulder, he said: 'The king has ordered me to bring his wife homeagain, and how can I do that when she disappeared so long ago, and noone can tell me anything about her?''Cheer up!' answered the horse, 'we will manage to find her. You haveonly got to ride me back to the same river that we went to yesterday,and I will plunge into it and take my proper shape again. For I am theking's wife, who was turned into a horse by the magician from whom yousaved me.'Joyfully the young man sprang into the saddle and rode away to the banksof the river. Then he threw himself off, and waited while the horseplunged in. The moment it dipped its head into the water its black skinvanished, and the most beautiful woman in the world was floating on thewater. She came smiling towards the youth, and held out her hand, andhe took it and led her back to the palace. Great was the king's surpriseand happiness when he beheld his lost wife stand before him, and ingratitude to her rescuer he loaded him with gifts.You would have thought that after this the poor youth would have beenleft in peace. but no, his enemy the stableman hated him as much asever, and laid a new plot for his undoing. This time he presentedhimself before the king and told him that the youth was so puffed upwith what he had done that he had declared he would seize the king'sthrone for himself.At this news the king waxed so furious that he ordered a gallows to beerected at once, and the young man to be hanged without a trial. He wasnot even allowed to speak in his own defence, but on the very steps ofthe gallows he sent a message to the king and begged, as a last favour,that he might play a tune on his zither. Leave was given him, and takingthe instrument from under his cloak he touched the strings. Scarcely hadthe first notes sounded than the hangman and his helper began to dance,and the louder grew the music the higher they capered, till at last theycried for mercy. But the youth paid no heed, and the tunes rang out moremerrily than before, and by the time the sun set they both sank on theground exhausted, and declared that the hanging must be put off tillto morrow.The story of the zither soon spread through the town, and on thefollowing morning the king and his whole court and a large crowd ofpeople were gathered at the foot of the gallows to see the youth hanged.Once more he asked a favour permission to play on his fiddle, and thisthe king was graciously pleased to grant. But with the first notes, theleg of every man in the crowd was lifted high, and they danced to thesound of the music the whole day till darkness fell, and there was nolight to hang the musician by.The third day came, and the youth asked leave to play on his flute. 'No,no,' said the king, 'you made me dance all day yesterday, and if I doit again it will certainly be my death. You shall play no more tunes.Quick! the rope round his neck.'At these words the young man looked so sorrowful that the courtiers saidto the king: 'He is very young to die. Let him play a tune if it willmake him happy.' So, very unwillingly, the king gave him leave. butfirst he had himself bound to a big fir tree, for fear that he should bemade to dance.When he was made fast, the young man began to blow softly on his flute,and bound though he was, the king's body moved to the sound, up anddown the fir tree till his clothes were in tatters, and the skin nearlyrubbed off his back. But the youth had no pity, and went on blowing,till suddenly the old magician appeared and asked: 'What danger are youin, my son, that you have sent for me?''They want to hang me,' answered the young man. 'the gallows are allready and the hangman is only waiting for me to stop playing.''Oh, I will put that right,' said the magician. and taking the gallows,he tore it up and flung it into the air, and no one knows where it camedown. 'Who has ordered you to be hanged?' asked he.The young man pointed to the king, who was still bound to the fir. andwithout wasting words the magician took hold of the tree also, andwith a mighty heave both fir and man went spinning through the air, andvanished in the clouds after the gallows.Then the youth was declared to be free, and the people elected him fortheir king. and the stable helper drowned himself from envy, for, afterall, if it had not been for him the young man would have remained poorall the days of his life.