1001 NightsThey recount that in the city of Kaukaban in Yemen there was a man namedAbuHasan of the Fadhli tribe who left the Bedouin life and became a townsmanandthe wealthiest of merchants. His wife died while both were young, and hisfriends pressed him to marry again.Weary of their pressure, Abu Hasan entered into negotiations with the oldwomenwho procure matches, and married a woman as beautiful as the moon shiningoverthe sea. To the wedding banquet he invited kith and kin, ulema andfakirs,friends and foes, and all of his acquaintances.The whole house was thrown open to feasting: There were five differentcolorsof rice, and sherbets of as many more. kid goats stuffed with walnuts,almonds,and pistachios. and a young camel roasted whole. So they ate and drankand mademerry.The bride was displayed in her seven dresses   and one more   to thewomen,who could not take their eyes off her. At last the bridegroom wassummoned tothe chamber where she sat enthroned. He rose slowly and with dignity fromhisdivan. but in do doing, for he was over full of meat and drink, he let flyagreat and terrible fart.In fear for their lives, all the guests immediately turned to theirneighborsand talked aloud, pretending to have heard nothing.Mortified, Abu Hasan turned away from the bridal chamber and as if toanswer acall of nature. He went down to the courtyard, saddled his mare, and rodeoff,weeping bitterly through the night.In time he reached Lahej where he found a ship ready to sail for India. soheboarded, arriving ultimately at Calicut on the Malabar coast. Here he metwithmany Arabs, especially from Hadramaut, who recommended him to the King.ThisKing (who was a Kafir) trusted him and advanced him to the captaincy ofhisbodyguard. He remained there ten years, in peace and happiness, butfinally wasovercome with homesickness. His longing to behold his native land waslike thatof a lover pining for his beloved. and it nearly cost him his life.Finally he sneaked away without taking leave and made his way to MakallainHadramaut. Here he donned the rags of a dervish. Keeping his name andcircumstances a secret, he set forth on foot for Kaukaban. He endured athousand hardships of hunger, thirst, and fatigue. and braved a thousanddangersfrom lions, snakes, and ghouls.Drawing near to his old home, he looked down upon it from the hills withbrimming eyes, and said to himself, "They might recognize me, so I willwanderabout the outskirts and listen to what people are saying. May Allah grantthatthey do not remember what happened."He listened carefully for seven nights and seven days, until it happenedthat,as he was sitting at the door of a hut, he heard the voice of a young girlsaying, "Mother, tell me what day was I born on, for one of my companionswantsto tell my fortune."The mother answered, "My daughter, you were born on the very night whenAbuHasan farted."No sooner had the listener heard these words than he rose up from thebench andfled, saying to himself, "Verily my fart has become a date! It will beremembered for ever and ever.He continued on his way, returning finally to India, where he remained inselfexile until he died. May the mercy of Allah be upon him!