My sixth brother (Shaali), O Prince of the Faithful, had his lips cutoff. He was in a state of extreme poverty, possessing nothing of thegoods of this perishable world. and he went forth one day to seek forsomething with which to stay his departing spirit, and on his way hebeheld a handsome house, with a wide and lofty vestibule, at the door ofwhich were servants, commanding and forbidding. whereupon he inquired ofone of the persons standing there, who answered, This house belongeth toa man of the sons of the Barmekees. My brother, therefore,advanced to the door keepers, and begged them to give him something. andthey said, Enter the door of the house, and thou wilt obtain what thoudesirest of its master. So he entered the vestibule, and proceededthrough it a while until he arrived at a mansion of the utmost beautyand elegance, having a garden in the midst of it, unsurpassed in beautyby anything that had ever been seen: its floors were paved with marble,and its curtains were hanging around. He knew not in which direction togo. but advanced to the upper extremity, and there he beheld a man ofhandsome countenance and beard, who, on seeing my brother, rose to him,and welcomed him, inquiring respecting his circumstances. He accordinglyinformed him that he was in want. and when the master of the house heardhis words, he manifested excessive grief, and, taking hold of his ownclothes, rent them, and exclaimed, Am I in the city, and thou in ithungry? It is a thing that I cannot endure! Then promising him everykind of happiness, he said, Thou must stay and partake of my salt. Butmy brother replied, O my master, I have not patience to wait. for I amin a state of extreme hunger.Upon this, the master of the house called out, Boy, bring the basin andewer! and he said, O my guest, advance, and wash thy hand. He thenperformed the same motions as if he were washing his hand. and called tohis attendants to bring the table. whereupon they began to come and goas though they were preparing it. after which the master of the housetook my brother, and sat down with him at this imaginary table, andproceeded to move his hands and lips as if he were eating. saying to mybrother, Eat, and be not ashamed, for thou art hungry, and I know howthou art suffering from the violence of thy hunger. My brother,therefore, made the same motions, as if he also were eating, while hishost said to him, Eat, and observe this bread and its whiteness. Tothis, my brother at first made no reply. but observed in his own mind,Verily this is a man who loveth to jest with others: so he said to him,O my master, in my life I have never seen bread more beautifully whitethan this, or any of sweeter taste: on which the host rejoined, Thiswas made by a female slave of mine whom I purchased for five hundredpieces of gold. He then called out, Boy, bring to us thesikbaj, the like of which is not found among the dishes ofKings! and, addressing my brother, he said, Eat, O my guest. for thouart hungry, vehemently so, and in absolute want of food. So my brotherbegan to twist about his mouth, and to chew, as in eating. The master ofthe house now proceeded to demand different kinds of viands, one afteranother. and, though nothing was brought, he continued ordering mybrother to eat. Next he called out, Boy, place before us the chickensstuffed with pistachio nuts: and said to his guest, Eat of that whichthou hast never tasted the like. O my master, replied my brother,verily this dish hath not its equal in sweetness of flavour: and thehost, thereupon, began to put his hand to my brother's mouth as thoughhe were feeding him with morsels. and proceeded to enumerate to him thevarious different kinds of viands, and to describe their severalexcellencies. while his hunger so increased that he longed for a cake ofbarley bread. The master of the house then said to him, Hast thou tastedanything more delicious than the spices in these dishes? No, O mymaster, answered my brother. Eat more then, resumed the host. and benot ashamed. I have eaten enough of the meats, replied the guest. Sothe man of the house called to his attendants to bring the sweets. andthey moved their hands about in the air as if they were bringing them.whereupon the host said to my brother, Eat of this dish. for it isexcellent. and of these aaif, by my life! and take this onebefore the sirup runs from it. May I never be deprived of thee, O mymaster! exclaimed my brother, proceeding to inquire of him respectingthe abundance of musk in the aaif. This, answered the host, is myusual custom in my house: they always put for me, in each of the aaif,a mithal of musk, and half a mithal of ambergris. Allthis time my brother was moving his head and mouth, and rolling abouthis tongue between his cheeks, as if he were enjoying the sweets. Afterthis, the master of the house called out to his attendants, Bring thedried fruits! and again they moved about their hands in the air asthough they were doing what he ordered. when he said to my brother, Eatof these almonds, and of these walnuts, and of these raisins. and soon. enumerating the various kinds of dried fruits. and added again, Eat,and be not ashamed. O my master, replied my brother, I have had enough,and have not power to eat anything more: but the host rejoined, If thoudesire, O my guest, to eat more, and to delight thyself withextraordinary dainties, by Allah! by Allah! remain not hungry.My brother now reflected upon his situation, and upon the manner inwhich this man was jesting with him, and said within himself, By Allah,I will do to him a deed that shall make him repent before God of theseactions! The man of the house next said to his attendants, Bring us thewine: and, as before, they made the same motions with their hands inthe air as if they were doing what he commanded. after which hepretended to hand to my brother a cup, saying, Take this cup, for itwill delight thee: and his guest replied, O my master, this is of thybounty: and he acted with his hand as though he were drinking it. Hathit pleased thee? said the host. O my master, answered my brother, Ihave never seen anything more delicious than this wine. Drink then,rejoined the master of the house, and may it be attended with benefitand health: and he himself pretended to drink, and to hand a second cupto my brother, who, after he had affected to drink it, feigned himselfintoxicated, and, taking his host unawares, raised his hand until thewhiteness of his arm pit appeared, and struck him such a slap upon hisneck that the chamber rang at the blow. and this he followed by a secondblow. whereupon the man exclaimed, What is this, thou vilest of thecreation? O my master, answered my brother, I am thy slave, whom thouhast graciously admitted into thine abode, and thou hast fed him withthy provisions, and treated him with old wine, and he hath becomeintoxicated, and committed an outrage upon thee. but thou art of tooexalted dignity to be angry with him for his ignorance.When the master of the house heard these words of my brother, he uttereda loud laugh, and said to him, Verily for a long time have I made gameof men, and jested with all persons accustomed to joking and rudeness,but I have not seen among them any who could endure this trick, nor anywho had sagacity to conform to all my actions, except thee: now,therefore, I pardon thee. and be thou my companion in reality, and neverrelinquish me. He then gave orders to bring a number of the dishes abovementioned, and he and my brother ate together to satisfaction. afterwhich they removed to the drinking chamber, where female slaves like somany moons sang all kinds of melodies, and played on all kinds ofmusical instruments. There they drank until intoxication overcame them:the master of the house treated my brother as a familiar friend, becamegreatly attached to him, and clad him with a costly dress. and on thefollowing morning they resumed their feasting and drinking. Thus theycontinued to live for a period of twenty years: the man then died, andthe Sulan seized upon his property, and took possession ofit.My brother, upon this, went forth from the city, a fugitive. and uponhis way, a party of Arabs came upon him. They made him acaptive. and the man who captured him tortured him with beating, andsaid to him, By Allah, purchase thyself of me by wealth, or I will killthee: but my brother, weeping, replied, By Allah, I possess nothing, OSheykh of the Arabs. nor do I know the means of obtaining any property:I am thy captive. I have fallen into thy hands, and do with me what thouwilt. And immediately the tyrannical Bedawee drew forth from his girdlea broad bladed knife (such as, if plunged into the neck of a camel,would cut it across from one jugular vein to the other), and, taking itin his right hand, approached my poor brother, and cut off with it hislips. still urging his demand. Now this Bedawee had a handsome wife,who, when he was absent, used to manifest a strong affection for mybrother. though he observed a proper decorum towards her, fearing God(whose name be exalted!). and it happened, one day, that she had calledhim, and seated him with her. but while they were together, lo, herhusband came in upon them. and when he beheld my brother, he exclaimed,Wo to thee, thou base wretch! Dost thou desire now to corrupt mywife? Then drawing his knife, he inflicted upon him another cruelwound. after which he mounted him upon a camel, and, having cast himupon a mountain, left him there, and went his way. Some travellers,however, passed by him, and when they discovered him, they gave him foodand drink, and acquainted me with his case: so I went forth to him, andconveyed him back into the city, and allotted him a sufficientmaintenance.Now I have come unto thee, O Prince of the Faithful, continued thebarber, and feared to return to my house without relating to thee thesefacts. for to neglect doing so had been an error. Thus thou hast seenthat, although having six brothers, I am of a more upright characterthan they. But when the Prince of the Faithful had heard my story, andall that I had related to him respecting my brothers, he laughed, andsaid, Thou hast spoken truth, O amit (O silent man). thou art a personof few words, and devoid of impertinence. now, however, depart from thiscity, and take up thine abode in another. So he banished me fromBaghdad. and I journeyed through various countries, and traversed manyregions, until I heard of his death, and of the succession of anotherKhaleefeh. when, returning to my city, I met with this young man, untowhom I did the best of deeds, and who, had it not been for me, had beenslain: yet he hath accused me of that which is not in my character. forall that he hath related of me, with respect to impertinence, andloquacity, and dulness, and want of taste, is false, O people.CONTINUATION OF THE STORY TOLD BY THE TAILOR.The tailor then proceeded thus: When we heard the story of the barber,and were convinced of his impertinence and loquacity, and that the youngman had been treated unjustly by him, we seized hold upon him, and puthim in confinement, and, seating ourselves to keep watch over him, ateand drank. and the feast was finished in the most agreeable manner. Weremained sitting together until the call to afternoon prayers, when Iwent forth, and returned to my house. but my wife looked angrily at me,and said, Thou hast been all the day enjoying thy pleasure while I havebeen sitting at home sorrowful. now if thou go not forth with me andamuse me for the remainder of the day, thy refusal will be the cause ofmy separation from thee. So I took her and went out with her, and weamused ourselves until nightfall, when, returning home, we met thishumpback, full of drink, and repeating verses. upon which I invited himto come home with us, and he consented. I then went forth to buy somefried fish, and having bought it and returned, we sat down to eat. andmy wife took a morsel of bread and a piece of fish, and put them intohis mouth, and choked him, so that he died. whereupon I took him up, andcontrived to throw him into the house of this physician, and hecontrived to throw him into the house of the steward, and the stewardcontrived to throw him in the way of the broker. This is the story ofwhat happened to me yesterday. Is it not more wonderful than that of thehumpback?CONTINUATION OF THE STORY OF THE HUMPBACK.When the King had heard this story, he ordered certain of hischamberlains to go with the tailor, and to bring the barber. saying tothem, His presence is indispensable, that I may hear his talk, and itmay be the cause of the deliverance of you all: then we will bury thishumpback decently in the earth, for he hath been dead since yesterday.and we will make him a monument around his grave, since he hath been theoccasion of our acquaintance with these wonderful stories.The chamberlains and the tailor soon came back, after having gone to theplace of confinement and brought the barber, whom they placed before theKing. and when the King beheld him, he saw him to be an old man, passedhis ninetieth year, of dark countenance, and white beard and eyebrows,with small ears, and long nose, and a haughty aspect. The King laughedat the sight of him, and said to him, O silent man, I desire that thourelate to me somewhat of thy stories. O King of the age, replied thebarber, what is the occasion of the presence of this Christian and thisJew and this Muslim, and this humpback lying dead among you. and what isthe reason of this assembly? Wherefore dost thou ask this? said theKing. The barber answered, I ask it in order that the King may know meto be no impertinent person, nor one who meddleth with that which dothnot concern him, and that I am free from the loquacity of which theyaccuse me: for I am fortunate in my characteristic appellation, sincethey have surnamed me E amit. and, as the poet hath said, Seldom hast thou seen a person honoured with a surname,but thou wilt find, if thou search, that his characteris expressed by it.The King therefore said, Explain to the barber the case of thishumpback, and what happened to him yesterday evening, and explain to himalso what the Christian hath related, and the Jew and the steward andthe tailor. So they repeated to him the stories of all these persons.The barber, thereupon, shook his head, saying, By Allah, this is awonderful thing! Uncover this humpback, that I may examine him. Andthey did so. He then seated himself at his head, and, taking it up,placed it upon his lap, and looked at his face, and laughed so violentlythat he fell backwards, exclaiming, For every death there is a cause.and the death of this humpback is most wonderful: it is worthy of beingregistered in the records, that posterity may be instructed by thisevent! The King, astonished at his words, said, O amit, explain to usthe reason of thy saying this. O King, replied the barber, by thybeneficence, life is yet in the humpback! He then drew forth from hisbosom a pot containing some ointment, and with this he anointed the neckof the humpback. after which he covered it up until it perspired. whenhe took forth an iron forceps, and put it down his throat, and extractedthe piece of fish with its bone, and all the people saw them. Thehumpback now sprang upon his feet, and sneezed, and, recovering hisconsciousness, drew his hands over his face, and exclaimed, There is noDeity but God! Moammad is God's Apostle! God bless and save him! andall who were present were astonished at the sight, and the King laugheduntil he became insensible. as did also the other spectators. The Kingexclaimed, By Allah, this accident is wonderful! I have never witnessedanything more strange! and added, O Muslims! O assembly of soldiers!have ye ever in the course of your lives seen any one die and afterthat come to life? But had not God blessed him with this barber, thehumpback had been to day numbered among the people of the other world.for the barber hath been the means of restoring him to life. Theyreplied, This is indeed a wonderful thing!The King then gave orders to record this event. and when they had doneso, he placed the record in the royal library. and he bestowed dressesof honour upon the Jew and the Christian and the steward. upon each ofthem, a costly dress: the tailor he appointed to be his own tailor,granting him regular allowances, and reconciling him and the humpbackwith each other: the humpback he honoured with a rich and beautifuldress, and with similar allowances, and appointed him his cup companion.and upon the barber also he conferred the like favours, rewarding himwith a costly dress of honour, regular allowances, and a fixed salary,and appointing him state barber, and his own cup companion: so they alllived in the utmost happiness and comfort until they were visited by theterminator of delights and the separator of friends.