A dwarf came to shoemaker and offered his services as a journeyman. The shoemaker had a lot of work at the time and was therefore happy to accept the offer. He asked what he expected for wages. The dwarf asked for twenty four thalers per week. The shoemaker replied that that was a lot of money, and that the dwarf was very small. How much work would he be able to do?"Yes," said the dwarf. It was a lot of money, but his work would be worth it. Each week would be able to make twenty four pair of tall riding boots. So the shoemaker hired him.The next morning the dwarf did not begin to work but instead made himself comfortable and walked around in the house. The shoemaker reminded him of his promise, and the dwarf answered that he would keep it, but did nothing. Saturday arrived, and this day passed as well with the dwarf doing no work.That night at eleven o'clock there arose a commotion in the house, and suddenly it was full of dwarfs. The shoemaker, who had already gone to bed with his wife, heard the noise and became curious. He looked through the keyhole and saw a roomful of dwarfs. Some were cutting and some were stitching while the journeyman sat comfortably in their midst and smoked.Suddenly one of the dwarfs said, "Master, he's looking!""Let him look!" was the answer.The dwarf repeated this three times, and the fourth time the answer was, "Then poke his eye out!"With that the dwarf poked out the shoemaker's eye with an awl.The latter went to his wife and told her what he had seen and what had happened to him. His wife advised him to not go back.The dwarfs' work lasted until one o'clock, and then everything was quiet.The next morning the wife got up and gave the journeyman his twenty four thalers and told him he could go. The latter asked where the master was. he wanted to speak with him.The wife answered that that was not possible, for the master was ill.The dwarf asked, "What is wrong with him?""I don't know," she answered.The dwarf insisted that she call her husband. Perhaps he could help him. So finally she fetched her husband.The dwarf asked the shoemaker what was wrong with him, and he answered that he had seen the dwarfs at work and told what had happened to him.With that the dwarf blew into his eye, with the words, "Next time don't look!"And in that instant the shoemaker could again see with his eye.