"Mountain Uncle" was the name given by the villagers to a splendid stripedtiger that lived among the highlands of Kang Wen, the long province thatfrom its cliffs overlooks the Sea of Japan. Hunters rarely saw him, andamong his fellow tigers the Mountain Uncle boasted that, though oftenfired at, he had never been wounded. while as for traps   he knew allabout them and laughed at the devices used by man to catch him and tostrip him of his coveted skin. In summer he kept among the high hills andlived on fat deer. In winter, when heavy snow, biting winds, and terriblecold kept human beings within doors, old Mountain Uncle would sally forthto the villages. There he would prowl around the stables, the cattleenclosures, or the pigpens, in hopes of clawing and dragging out a youngdonkey, a fat calf, or a suckling pig. Too often he succeeded, so that hewas the terror of the country for leagues around.One day in autumn, Mountain Uncle was rambling among the lower hills.Though far from any village, he kept a sharp lookout for traps andhunters, but none seemed to be near. He was very hungry and hoped forgame.But on coming round a great rock, Mountain Uncle suddenly saw in his pathsome feet ahead, as he thought, a big tiger like himself. He stopped,twitched his tail most ferociously as a challenge, showed fight bygrowling, and got ready to spring. What was his surprise to see the othertiger doing exactly the same things. Mountain Uncle was sure that therewould be a terrible struggle, but this was just what he wanted, for heexpected of course to win.But after a tremendous leap in the air, he landed in a pit and all of aheap, bruised and disappointed. There was no tiger to be seen, but insteada heavy lid of logs had closed over his head with a crash and he lay indarkness. Old Mountain Uncle at last was caught. Yes, the hunter hadconcealed the pit with sticks and leaves, and on the upright timbers,covered with vines and brushwood, had hung a bit of looking glass.Mountain Uncle had often beheld his own face and body in the water, whenhe stooped to drink, but this time, not seeing any water, he was deceivedinto thinking a real tiger wanted to fight him.By and by a Buddhist priest came along, who believed in being kind to allliving creatures. Hearing an animal moaning, he opened the trap andlifting the lid saw old Mountain Uncle at the bottom licking his bruisedpaw."Oh, please, Mr. Man, let me get out. I'm hurt badly," said the tiger.Thereupon the priest lifted up one of the logs and slid it down, until itrested on the bottom of the pit. Then the tiger climbed up and out.Old Mountain Uncle expressed his thanks volubly, saying to the shavenhead, "I am deeply grateful to you, sir, for helping me out of my trouble.Nevertheless, as I am very hungry, I must eat you up."The priest, very much surprised and indignant, protested against such vileingratitude. To say the least, it was very bad manners and entirelyagainst the law of the mountains, and he appealed to a big tree to decidebetween them. The spirit in the tree spoke through the rustling leaves anddeclared that the man should go free and that the tiger was bothungrateful and unmannerly.Old Mountain Uncle was not satisfied yet, especially as the priest wasunusually fat and would make a very good dinner. However, he allowed theman to appeal once more and this time to a big rock. "The man is certainlyright, Venerable Mountain Uncle, and you are wholly wrong," said thespirit in the rock. "Your master, the Mountain Spirit, who rides on thegreen bull and the piebald horse to punish his enemies, will certainlychastise you if you devour this priest. You will be no fit messenger ofthe Mountain Lord if you are so ungrateful as to eat the man who saved youfrom starvation or death in the trap. It is shockingly bad manners even tothink of such a thing."The tiger felt ashamed, but his eyes still glared with hunger. so, to besure of saving his own skin, the priest proposed to make the toad a judge.The tiger agreed. But the toad, with his gold rimmed eyes, looked verywise, and instead of answering quickly, as the tree and rock did,deliberated a long time. The priest's heart sank, while the tiger movedhis jaws as if anticipating his feast. He felt sure that Old Speckled Backwould decide in his favor."I must go and see the trap before I can make up my mind," said the toad,who looked as solemn as a magistrate.So all three leaped, hopped, or walked to the trap. The tiger, movingfast, was there first, which was just what the toad, who was a friend ofthe priest, wanted. Besides, Old Speckled Back was diligently looking fora crack in the rocks nearby. So, while the toad and the tiger werestudying the matter, the priest ran off and saved himself within themonastery gates. When at last Old Speckled Back decided against MountainUncle and in favor of the man, he had no sooner finished his judgment thanhe hopped into the rock crevice, and, crawling far inside, defied thetiger, calling him an unmannerly brute and an ungrateful beast, and daringhim to do his worst.Old Mountain Uncle was so mad with rage and hunger that his craftinessseemed turned into stupidity. He clawed at the rock to pull it open to getat the toad to tear him to pieces. But Speckled Back, safe within, onlylaughed. Unable to do any harm, the tiger flew into a passion of rage. Thehotter his temper grew, the more he lost his wit. Poking his nose insidethe crack, he rubbed it so hard on the rough rock that he soon bled todeath.When the hunter came along, he marveled at what he saw, but he was glad toget rich by selling the tiger's fur, bones, and claws . for in Koreanothing sells so well as a tiger. As for the toad, he told to severalgenerations of his descendants the story of how he outwitted the oldMountain Uncle.