Once upon a time there was a soldier who had served the king loyallyfor many long years. When the war was over and the soldier could no longerserve because of the many wounds he had received, the king said to him,"You can go home now. I no longer need you. There will be no more moneyfor you, because wages are only for those who earn them."Because the soldier did not know how he could earn a living, he sadlywalked the whole day long, until he came to a forest in the evening. Asdarkness fell he saw a light. He approached it and came to a little house,where a witch lived. "Give me a night's shelter and a little to eat anddrink," he said to her, "otherwise I will perish.""Oho!" she answered. "Who gives anything to a runaway soldier? But Iwill have pity and take you in after all, if you will do what I ask ofyou.""What do you want?" asked the soldier."For you to dig up my garden tomorrow."The soldier agreed, and the next day he worked with all his might, butcould not finish before evening. "I see," said the witch, "that you can dono more work today. I will take you in for one more night if tomorrow youwill cut up and split a stack of wood for me."The soldier took the entire day to do this, and that evening the witchproposed that he remain a third night. "Tomorrow I have only a small taskfor you. Behind my house there is a dry well into which my light hasfallen. It burns blue and never goes out. I want you to get it for me."The next day the old woman led him to the well and lowered him down itin a basket. He found the blue light and gave a sign that she should pullhim up again. And she did pull him up, but when he was close to the edge,she wanted to take the blue light from him. "No," he said, sensing herevil thoughts, "I shall not give you the light until I am standing on theground with both feet."Then the witch became furious, let him fall back into the well, andwalked away. The poor soldier fell to the damp floor without beinginjured. The blue light continued to burn, but how could that help him? Hesaw that would not be able to escape death. He sadly sat there for awhile. Then he happened to reach into his pocket and found his tobaccopipe, which was still half full. "This will be your last pleasure," hethought, pulled it out, lit it with the blue light, and began tosmoke.After the fumes had wafted about the cavern, suddenly there stoodbefore him a little black dwarf, who said, "Master, what do youcommand?""Why should I command you?" replied the bewildered soldier."I must do everything that you demand," said the dwarf.""Good," said the soldier, "then first help me out of this well."The dwarf took him by the hand and led him through an undergroundpassage, and he did not forget to take the blue light with him. Along theway he showed him the treasures that the witch had collected and hiddenthere, and the soldier took as much gold as he could carry. When he wasabove ground, he said to the dwarf, "Now go and bind the old witch andtake her to the judge."Not long afterward she came riding by on a tomcat as fast as the windand screaming horribly. And not long after that the dwarf was back. "It isall taken care of," he said. "The witch is hanging on the gallows. Master,what do you command now?""Nothing at the moment," answered the soldier. "You can go home, but beready when I call you.""It is only necessary," said the dwarf, "for you to light your pipewith the blue light, and I will be with you." With that he disappearedbefore his very eyes.The soldier returned to the city from which he had come. He moved intothe best inn and had beautiful clothes made for himself. Then he told theinnkeeper to furnish his room as luxuriously as possible. When it wasfinished he summoned the black dwarf and said, "I served the king loyally,but he sent me away to starve. For this I now want revenge.""What am I to do?" asked the little man."Late this evening, when the king's daughter is lying in bed, bring herhere to me in her sleep. She shall do maid service for me."The dwarf said, "That is an easy thing for me, but a dangerous thingfor you. If you are found out, it will not go well for you."At the strike of twelve the door opened, and the dwarf carried theking's daughter in."Aha, is that you?" cried the soldier. "Get to work now! Go fetch thebroom and sweep the room." When she was finished he called her to hischair, stuck his feet out at her, and said, "Pull off my boots," thenthrew them in her face, and she had to pick them up and clean them andmake them shine. She did everything that he ordered her to do, withoutresisting, silently, and with half closed eyes. At the first cock's crow,the dwarf carried her to the royal palace and back to her bed.The next morning, after the king's daughter had gotten up, she went toher father and told him that she had had an amazing dream. "I was carriedaway through the streets as fast as lightning and taken to a soldier'sroom. I had to serve as his maid and wait on him and do common work, sweepthe room, and clean his boots. It was only a dream, but still I am astired as if I had really done it all.""The dream could have been true," said the king. "I will give you someadvice. Fill your pocket with peas, then make a small hole in your pocket.If you are carried away again, they will fall out and leave a track on thestreet."As the king was thus speaking, the dwarf was invisibly standing nearbyand heard everything.That night when he once again carried the sleeping princess through thestreets, a few peas did indeed fall out of her pocket, but they did notleave a track, because the cunning dwarf had already scattered peas in allthe streets. And once again the king's daughter had to do maid serviceuntil the cock crowed.The next morning the king sent his people out to look for the track,but it was to no end, for in all the streets there were poor childrengathering peas and saying, "Last night it rained peas.""We must think of something else," said the king. "Leave your shoes onwhen you go to bed, and before you return from there, hide one of them. Iwill be sure to find it."The black dwarf overheard this proposal, and that evening when thesoldier again wanted the king's daughter brought to him, the dwarf advisedhim against this, saying that he had no way to protect him against suchtrickery. If the shoe were to be found in his room, it would not go wellwith him."Do what I tell you," replied the soldier, and for a third night theking's daughter had to work like a maid. But before she was carried back,she hid a shoe under the bed.The next morning the king had the entire city searched for the shoe,and it was found in the soldier's room. The soldier himself, following thelittle man's request, was already outside the city gate, but they soonovertook him and threw him into prison.In his haste, he had forgotten to take along his most valuable things:the blue light and the gold. He had only one ducat in his pocket. Standingat the window of his prison and weighted down with chains, he saw one ofhis comrades walking by. He knocked on the glass, and as he walked by, hesaid, "Be so good and bring me the little bundle that I left at the inn.I'll give you a ducat for it."The comrade ran forth and brought back the desired things. As soon asthe soldier was alone again, he lit his pipe and summoned the black dwarf."Have no fear," he said to his master. "Just go where they lead you, andlet everything happen, but take the blue light with you."The next day the soldier was tried, and although he had done nothingwrong, the judge still sentenced him to death. As he was being led out, heasked the king for one last wish."What sort of a wish?" asked the king."That I might smoke one more pipe on the way.""You can smoke three," answered the king, "but do not think that I willlet you live."Then the soldier pulled out his pipe and lit it with the blue light. Assoon as a few rings of smoke had risen, the dwarf was standing there. Hehad a cudgel in his hand and said, "What does my master command?""Strike the false judges and their henchmen to the ground for me. Anddon't spare the king either, who has treated me so badly."Then the dwarf took off like lightning, zip zap, back and forth, andeveryone he even touched with his cudgel fell to the ground and did notdare to move. The king became afraid. He begged for mercy, and in order tosave his life, he gave to the soldier his kingdom as well as his daughterfor a wife.