A merchant was planning to go to a fair, so he asked his threedaughters what he should bring back for them.The oldest one said, "A beautiful dress."The second, "A pair of pretty shoes."The third, "A rose."To find a rose would be difficult, for it was the middle of winter, butbecause the youngest daughter was the most beautiful, and because she tookgreat pleasure in flowers, the father said that he would do his best tofind her one.The merchant was now on his homeward trip. He had a splendid dress forthe oldest daughter, a pair of beautiful shoes for the second one, but hehad not been able to get a rose for the third one. Whenever he had entereda garden looking for roses, the people just laughed at him, asking him ifhe believed that roses grew in the snow. He was very sad about this, andas he was thinking about what he might bring his dearest child, he came toa castle. It had an adjoining garden where it was half summer and halfwinter. On the one side the most beautiful flowers were blossoming  large and small. On the other side everything was bare and covered withdeep snow.The man climbed from his horse. He was overjoyed to see an entire hedgefull of roses on the summer side. He approached it, picked one of them,and then rode off.He had already ridden some distance when he heard something running andpanting behind him. Turning around, he saw a large black beast, thatcalled out, "Give me back my rose, or I'll kill you! Give me back my rose,or I'll kill you!"The man said, "Please let me have the rose. I am supposed to bring onehome for my daughter, the most beautiful daughter in the world.""For all I care, but then give me your beautiful daughter for a wife!"In order to get rid of the beast, the man said yes, thinking that hewould not come to claim her.However, the beast shouted back to him, "In eight days I will come andget my bride."So the merchant brought each daughter what she had wanted, and each onewas delighted, especially the youngest with her rose.Eight days later the three sisters were sitting together at the tablewhen something came stepping heavily up the stairs to the door. "Open up!Open up!" it shouted.They opened the door, and were terrified when a large black beaststepped inside. "Because my bride did not come to me, and the time is up,I will fetch her myself." With that he went to the youngest daughter andgrabbed hold of her. She began to scream, but it did not help. She had togo away with him. And when the father came home, his dearest child hadbeen taken away.The black beast carried the beautiful maiden to his castle whereeverything was beautiful and wonderful. Musicians were playing there, andbelow there was the garden, half summer and half winter, and the beast dideverything to make her happy, fulfilling even her unspoken desires. Theyate together, and she had to scoop up his food for him, for otherwise hewould not have eaten. She was dear to the beast, and finally she grew veryfond of him.One day she said to him, "I am afraid, and don't know why. It seems tome that my father or one of my sisters is sick. Couldn't I see them justonce?"So the beast led her to a mirror and said, "Look inside."She looked into the mirror, and it was as though she were at home. Shesaw her living room and her father. He really was sick, from a brokenheart, because he held himself guilty that his dearest child had beentaken away by a wild beast and surely had been eaten up. If he could knowhow well off she was, then he would not be so sad. She also saw her twosisters sitting on the bed and crying.Her heart was heavy because of all this, and she asked the beast toallow her to go home for a few days. The beast refused for a long time,but she grieved so much that he finally had pity on her and said, "Go toyour father, but promise me that you will be back here in eight days."She promised, and as she was leaving, he called out again, "Do not staylonger than eight days."When she arrived home her father was overjoyed to see her once again,but sickness and grief had already eaten away at his heart so much that hecould not regain his health, and within a few days he died.Because of her sadness, she could think of nothing else. Her father wasburied, and she went to the funeral. The sisters cried together, andconsoled one another, and when her thoughts finally turned to her dearbeast, the eight days were long past.She became frightened, and it seemed to her that he too was sick. Sheset forth immediately and returned to his castle. When she arrived thereeverything was still and sad inside. The musicians were not playing. Blackcloth hung everywhere. The garden was entirely in winter and covered withsnow. She looked for the beast, but he was not there. She lookedeverywhere, but could not find him.Then she was doubly sad, and did not know how to console herself. Shesadly went into the garden where she saw a pile of cabbage heads. Theywere old and rotten, and she pushed them aside. After turning over a fewof them she saw her dear beast. He was lying beneath them and was dead.She quickly fetched some water and poured it over him without stopping.Then he jumped up and was instantly transformed into a handsome prince.They got married, and the musicians began to play again, and the summerside of the garden appeared in its splendor, and the black cloth was allripped down, and together they lived happily ever after.