Know, O Sultan and head of the Jann, that this mule was my wife.Now it so happened that I went forth and was absent one wholeyear. and when I returned from my journey I came to her by night,and saw a black slave lying with her on the carpet bed and theywere talking, and dallying, and laughing, and kissing and playingthe close buttock game. When she saw me, she rose and camehurriedly at me with a gugglet of water. and, mutteringspells over it, she besprinkled me and said, "Come forth fromthis thy shape into the shape of a dog." and I became on theinstant a dog. She drove me out of the house, and I ran throughthe doorway nor ceased running until I came to a butcher's stall,where I stopped and began to eat what bones were there. When thestall owner saw me, he took me and led me into his house, but assoon as his daughter had sight of me she veiled her face from me,crying out, "Doss thou bring men to me and dost thou come in withthem to me?" Her father asked, "Where is the man?". and sheanswered, "This dog is a man whom his wife hath ensorcelled and Iam able to release him." When her father heard her words, hesaid, "Allah upon thee, O my daughter, release him." So she tooka gugglet of water and, after uttering words over it, sprinkledupon me a few drops, saying, "Come forth from that form into thyformer form." And I returned to my natural shape. Then I kissedher hand and said, "I wish thou wouldest transform my wife evenas she bans formed me." Thereupon she gave me some water, saying,"As soon as thou see her asleep, sprinkle this liquid upon herand speak what words thou heardest me utter, so shall she becomewhatsoever thou desirest." I went to my wife and found her fastasleep. and, while sprinkling the water upon her, I said, "Comeforth from that form into the form of a mare mule." So she becameon the instant a she mule, and she it is whom thou seest withthine eyes, O Sultan and head of the Kings of the Jann! Then theJinni turned towards her and said, "Is this sooth?" And shenodded her head and replied by signs, "Indeed, 'tis the truth:for such is my tale and this is what hath be fallen me." Now whenthe old man had ceased speaking the Jinni shook with pleasure andgave him the third of the merchant's blood. And Shahrazadperceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.Then quoth Dunyazad, "O. my sister, how pleasant is thy tale, andhow tasteful. how sweet and how grateful!" She replied, "And whatis this compared with that I could tell thee, the night to come,if I live and the King spare me?" Then thought the King,"By Allah, I will not slay her until I hear the rest of her tale,for truly it is wondrous." So they rested that night in mutualembrace until the dawn. After this the King went forth to hisHall of Estate, and the Wazir and the troops came in and thecourt was crowded, and the King gave orders and judged andappointed and deposed, bidding and forbidding during the rest ofthe day. Then the Divan broke up, and King Shahryar entered hispalace.When it was the Third Night,And the King had had his will of the Wazir's daughter, Dunyazad,her sister, said to her, "Finish for us that tale of thine." andshe replied, "With joy and goodly gree! It hath reached me, Oauspicious King, that when the third old man told a tale to theJinni more wondrous than the two preceding, the Jinni marvelledwith exceeding marvel, and, shaking with delight, cried, Lo! Ihave given thee the remainder of the merchant's punishment andfor thy sake have I released him." Thereupon the merchantembraced the old men and thanked them, and these Shaykhs wishedhim joy on being saved and fared forth each one for his own city.Yet this tale is not more wondrous than the fisherman's story."Asked the King, "What is the fisherman's story?" And she answeredby relating the tale of