There was a village, and the men decided to go on a warpath. So thesemen started, and they journeyed for several days toward the south. Theycame to a thickly wooded country. They found wild horses, and among themwas a spotted pony.One man caught the spotted pony and took care of it. He took it home,and instructed his wife to look after it, as if it were their chief. Thisshe did, and, further, she liked the horse very much. She took it wherethere was good grass. In the winter time she cut young cottonwood shootsfor it, so that the horse was always fat. In the night, if it was stormy,she pulled a lot of dry grass, and when she put the blanket over the horseand tied it up, she stuffed the grass under the blanket, so the horsenever got cold. It was always fine and sleek.One summer evening she went to where she had tied the horse, and shemet a fine looking man, who had on a buffalo robe with a spotted horsepictured on it. She liked him. he smelt finely.She followed him until they came to where the horse had been, and theman said, "You went with me. It is I who was a horse."She was glad, for she liked the horse. For several years they weretogether, and the woman gave birth, and it was a spotted pony. When thepony was born, the woman found she had a tail like that of a horse. Shealso had long hair. When the colt sucked, the woman stood up.For several years they roamed about, and had more ponies, all spotted.At home the man mourned for his lost wife. He could not make out whyshould go off.People went on a hunt many years afterward, and they came across thesespotted ponies. People did not care to attack them, for among them was astrange looking animal. But, as they came across them now and then, theydecided to catch them. They were hard to catch, but at last they caughtthem, all but the woman, for she could run fast. but as they caught herchildren, she gave in and was caught.People said, "This is the woman who was lost."And some said, "No, it is not."Her husband was sent for, and he recognized her. He took his bow andarrows out and shot her dead, for he did not like to see her with thehorse's tail. The other spotted ponies were kept, and as they increased,they were spotted. So the people had many spotted ponies.