Seven men of Buneyr once left their native wilds for the purpose ofseeking their fortunes. When evening came they all sat down under a treeto rest, when one of them said, "Let us count to see if we are all here."So he counted, "One, two, three, four, five, six," but, quite omitting toreckon himself, he exclaimed, "There's one of us missing, we are onlysix!""Nonsense!" cried the others, and the whole company of seven begancounting with uplifted forefingers, but they all forgot to countthemselves.Fearing some evil, they now rose up, and at once set out to search fortheir missing comrade. Presently they met a shepherd, who greeted themcivilly and said, "Friends, why are you in such low spirits?""We have lost one of our party," answered they. "we started thismorning seven in number, and now we are only six. Have you seen any one ofus hereabouts?""But," said the shepherd, "seven you are, for I have found your lostcompanion. behold: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven! ""Ah," answered the wise men of Buneyr, "you have indeed found ourmissing brother. We owe you a debt of gratitude. Because you have done usthis service, we insist on doing a month's free labor for you."So the shepherd, overjoyed with his good fortune, took the men homewith him.Now, the shepherd's mother was a very old woman, in her dotage, utterlyfeeble and unable to help herself. When the morning came he placed herunder the care of one of the Buneyris, saying to him, "You will stay hereand take care of my old mother."To another Buneyri he said, "You take out my goats, graze them on thehills by day, and watch over them by night."To the other five he said, "As for you, I shall have work for youtomorrow."The man who was left in charge of the old crippled mother found thathis time was fully occupied in the constant endeavor to drive off theinnumerable flies which in that hot season kept her in a state ofcontinual excitement and irritation. When, however, he saw that all hisefforts were fruitless, and that he flapped the wretches away in vain, hebecame desperate, and, lifting up a large stone, he aimed it deliberatelyat a certain fly which had settled on the woman's face. Hurling it withall his might, he of course missed the fly, but, alas! he knocked thewoman prone on her back. When the shepherd saw this he wrung his hands indespair. "Ah," cried he, "what has your stupidity done for me? The fly hasescaped, but as for my poor old mother, you have killed her dead."Meanwhile, the second Buneyri led his flock of goats up and down amongthe hills, and when midday came he rested to eat his bread, while many ofthe assembled goats lay down beside him. As he was eating he began toobserve how the goats were chewing the cud and occasionally looking at himSo he foolishly imagined that they were mocking him, and waxed wroth."So," cried he, "because I am taking my food, you must needs crowd roundand make game of me, must you?" And, seizing his hatchet, he made a suddenrush at the poor animals, and he had already struck off the heads ofseveral of them, when the shepherd came running to the spot, bemoaning hisbad luck and crying to the fellow to desist from slaughter.That night was a sorrowful one for the trustful shepherd, and bitterlyhe repented his rashness. In the morning the remaining five wise men ofBuneyr came to him, and said, "It is now our turn. Give us some work todo, too!""No, no, my friends," answered he. "you have amply repaid me for thetrifling favor I did for you in finding your missing companion. and now,for God's sake, go your way and let me see you no more."Hearing these words, the wise men of Buneyr resumed their journey.