Once upon a time there lived a cock sparrow and his wife, who were bothgrowing old. But despite his years the cock sparrow was a gay, festive oldbird, who plumed himself upon his appearance, and was quite a ladies' man.So he cast his eyes on a lively young hen, and determined to marry her,for he was tired of his sober old wife.The wedding was a mighty grand affair, and everybody as jolly and merry ascould be, except of course the poor old wife, who crept away from all thenoise and fun to sit disconsolately on a quiet branch just under a crow'snest, where she could be as melancholy as she liked without anybody pokingfun at her.Now while she sat there it began to rain, and after a while the drops,soaking through the crow's nest, came drip dripping onto her feathers.She, however, was far too miserable to care, and sat there all huddled upand peepy till the shower was over. Now it so happened that the crow hadused some scraps of dyed cloth in lining its nest, and as these became wetthe colors ran, and dripping down on to the poor old hen sparrow beneath,dyed her feathers until she was as gay as a peacock.Fine feathers make fine birds, we all know, and she really looked quitespruce. so much so, that when she flew home, the new wife nearly burstwith envy, and asked her at once where she had found such a lovely dress."Easily enough," replied the old wife. "I just went into the dyer's vat."The bride instantly determined to go there also. She could not endure thenotion of the old thing being better dressed than she was, so she flew offat once to the dyer's, and being in a great hurry, went pop into themiddle of the vat, without waiting to see if it was hot or cold. It turnedout to be just scalding. Consequently the poor thing was half boiledbefore she managed to scramble out.Meanwhile, the gay old cock, not finding his bride at home, flew aboutdistractedly in search of her, and you may imagine what bitter tears hewept when he found her, half drowned and half boiled, with her feathersall awry, lying by the dyer's vat."What has happened?" quoth he.But the poor bedraggled thing could only gasp out feebly:The old wife was dyed  The nasty old cat!And I, the gay bride,Fell into the vat!Whereupon the cock sparrow took her up tenderly in his bill and flew awayhome with his precious burden. Now, just as he was crossing the big riverin front of his house, the old hen sparrow, in her gay dress, looked outof the window, and when she saw her old husband bringing home his youngbride in such a sorry plight, she burst out laughing shrilly, and calledaloud, "That is right! That is right! Remember what the song says:Old wives must scramble through water and mud,But young wives are carried dry shod o'er the flood."This allusion so enraged her husband that he could not contain himself,but cried out, "Hold your tongue, you shameless old cat!"Of course, when he opened his mouth to speak, the poor draggled bride fellout, and, going plump into the river, was drowned. Whereupon thecock sparrow was so distracted with grief that he picked off all hisfeathers until he was as bare as a plowed field. Then, going to a pipaltree, he sat all naked and forlorn on the branches, sobbing and sighing."What has happened?" cried the pipal tree, aghast at the sight."Don't ask me!" wailed the cock sparrow. "It isn't manners to askquestions when a body is in deep mourning."But the pipal would not be satisfied without an answer, so at last poorbereaved cock sparrow replied:The ugly hen painted.By jealousy tainted,The pretty hen dyed.Lamenting his bride,The cock, bald and bare,Sobs loud in despair!On hearing this sad tale, the pipal became overwhelmed with grief and,declaring it must mourn also, shed all its leaves on the spot.By and by a buffalo, coming in the heat of the day to rest in the shade ofthe pipal tree, was astonished to find nothing but bare twigs."What has happened?" cried the buffalo. "You were as green as possibleyesterday!""Don't ask me!" whimpered the pipal. "Where are your manners? Don't youknow it isn't decent to ask questions when people are in mourning?"But the buffalo insisted on having an answer, so at last, with many sobsand sighs, the pipal replied:The ugly hen painted.By jealousy tainted,The pretty hen dyed.Bewailing his bride,The cock, bald and bare,Sobs loud in despair.The pipal tree grievesBy shedding its leaves!""Oh dear me!" cried the buffalo. "How very sad! I really must mourn too!"So she immediately cast her horns, and began to weep and wail. After awhile, becoming thirsty, she went to drink at the riverside."Goodness gracious!" cried the river, "What is the matter? And what haveyou done with your horns?""How rude you are!" wept the buffalo. "Can't you see I am in deepmourning? And it isn't polite to ask questions."But the river persisted until the buffalo, with many groans, replied:The ugly hen painted.By jealousy tainted,The pretty hen dyed.Lamenting his bride,The cock, bald and bare,Sobs loud in despair.The pipal tree grievesBy shedding its leaves.The buffalo mournsBy casting her horns!"Dreadful!" cried the river, and wept so fast that its water became quitesalt (salty).By and by a cuckoo, coming to bathe in the stream, called out, "Why,river! What has happened? You are as salt as tears!""Don't ask me!" mourned the stream. "It is too dreadful for words!"Nevertheless, when the cuckoo would take no denial, the river replied:The ugly hen painted.By jealousy tainted,The pretty hen dyed.Lamenting his bride,The cock, bald and bare,Sobs loud in despair.The pipal tree grievesBy shedding its leaves.The buffalo mournsBy casting her horns.The stream, weeping fast,Grows briny at last!"Oh dear! Oh dear me!" cried the cuckoo. "How very, very sad! I must mourntoo!" So it plucked out an eye, and going to a corn (grain) merchant'sshop, sat on the doorstep and wept."Why, little cuckoo! what's the matter?" cried Bhagtu the shopkeeper. "Youare generally the pertest of birds, and today you are as dull asditchwater!""Don't ask me!" sniveled the cuckoo. "It is such terrible grief! Suchdreadful sorrow! Such such horrible pain!"However, when Bhagtu persisted, the cuckoo, wiping its one eye on itswing, replied:The ugly hen painted.By jealousy tainted,The pretty hen dyed.Lamenting his bride,The cock, bald and bare,Sobs loud in despair.The pipal tree grievesBy shedding its leaves.The buffalo mournsBy casting her horns.The stream, weeping fast,Grows briny at last.The cuckoo with sighsBlinds one of its eyes!"Bless my heart!" cried Bhagtu, "But that is simply the most heartrendingtale I ever heard in my life! I must really mourn likewise!" Whereupon hewept, and wailed, and beat his breast, until he went completely out of hismind. And when the queen's maidservant came to buy of him, he gave herpepper instead of turmeric, onion instead of garlic, and wheat instead ofpulse."Dear me, friend Bhagtu!" quoth the maidservant. "Your wits arewool gathering! What's the matter?""Don't! please don't!" cried Bhagtu. "I wish you wouldn't ask me, for I amtrying to forget all about it. It is too dreadful   too, too terrible!"At last, however, yielding to the maid's entreaties, he replied, with manysobs and tears:The ugly hen painted.By jealousy tainted,The pretty hen dyed.Lamenting his bride,The cock, bald and bare,Sobs loud in despair.The pipal tree grievesBy shedding its leaves.The buffalo mournsBy casting her horns.The stream, weeping fast,Grows briny at last.The cuckoo with sighsBlinds one of its eyes.Bhagtu's grief so intense is,He loses his senses!"How very sad!" exclaimed the maidservant. "I don't wonder at yourdistress. But it is always so in this miserable world! Everything goeswrong!"Whereupon she fell to railing at everybody and everything in the world,until the queen said to her, "What is the matter, my child? Whatdistresses you?""Oh!" replied the maidservant, "The old story! Everyone is miserable, andI most of all! Such dreadful news!  The ugly hen painted.By jealousy tainted,The pretty hen dyed.Lamenting his bride,The cock, bald and bare,Sobs loud in despair.The pipal tree grievesBy shedding its leaves.The buffalo mournsBy casting her horns.The stream, weeping fast,Grows briny at last.The cuckoo with sighsBlinds one of its eyes.Bhagtu's grief so intense is,He loses his senses.The maidservant wailingHas taken to railing!"Too true!" wept the queen, "Too true! The world is a vale of tears! Thereis nothing for it but to try and forget!" Whereupon she set to workdancing away as hard as she could.By and by in came the prince, who, seeing her twirling about, said, "Why,mother! what is the matter?"The queen, without stopping, gasped out:The ugly hen painted.By jealousy tainted,The pretty hen dyed.Lamenting his bride,The cock, bald and bare,Sobs loud in despair.The pipal tree grievesBy shedding its leaves.The buffalo mournsBy casting her horns.The stream, weeping fast,Grows briny at last.The cuckoo with sighsBlinds one of its eyes.Bhagtu's grief so intense is,He loses his senses.The maidservant wailingHas taken to railing.The queen, joy enhancing,Takes refuge in dancing!"If that is your mourning, I'll mourn too!" cried the prince, and seizinghis tambourine, he began to thump on it with a will. Hearing the noise,the king came in, and asked what was the matter."This is the matter!" cried the prince, drumming away with all his might:The ugly hen painted.By jealousy tainted,The pretty hen dyed.Lamenting his bride,The cock, bald and bare,Sobs loud in despair.The pipal tree grievesBy shedding its leaves.The buffalo mournsBy casting her horns.The stream, weeping fast,Grows briny at last.The cuckoo with sighsBlinds one of its eyes.Bhagtu's grief so intense is,He loses his senses.The maidservant wailingHas taken to railing.The queen, joy enhancing,Takes refuge in dancing.To aid the mirth coming,The prince begins drumming!"Capital! capital!" cried the king, "That's the way to do it!" So, seizinghis zither, he began to thrum away like one possessed.And as they danced, the queen, the king, the prince, and the maidservantsang:The ugly hen painted.By jealousy tainted,The pretty hen dyed.Bewailing his bride,The cock, bald and bare,Sobs loud in despair.The pipal tree grievesBy shedding its leaves.The buffalo mournsBy casting her horns.The stream, weeping fast,Grows briny at last.The cuckoo with sighsBlinds one of its eyes.Bhagtu's grief so intense is,He loses his senses.The maidservant wailingHas taken to railing.The queen, joy enhancing,Takes refuge in dancing.To aid the mirth coming,The prince begins drumming.To join in it with herThe king strums the zither!So they danced and sang till they were tired, and that was how everyonemourned poor cock sparrow's pretty bride.