Rosy red was a sweet little girl, with beautiful blue eyes, soft pinkcheeks and glorious ruddy gold hair of the tinge that artists love topaint. Her mother died the day she was born, but her grandmotherlooked after her with such tender care that Rosy red regarded her asher mother. She was very happy, was Rosy red. All day long she sang,as she tripped gaily about the house or the woods that surrounded it,and so melodious was her voice that the birds gathered on the trees tolisten to her and to encourage her to continue, by daintily chirrupingwhenever she ceased.Merrily Rosy red performed all the little duties her grandmothercalled upon her to do, and on festivals she was allowed to wear adelightful pair of red leather slippers, her father's gift to her onher first birthday. Now, although neither she nor her father knew it,they were magic slippers which grew larger as her feet grew. Rosy redwas only a child and so did not know that slippers don't usually grow.Her grandmother knew the secret of the slippers, but she did not tell,and her father had become too moody and too deeply absorbed in his ownthoughts and affairs to notice anything.One day Rosy red remembered it only too sadly she returned from thewoods to find her grandmother gone and three strange women in thehouse. She stopped suddenly in the midst of her singing and her cheeksturned pale, for she did not like the appearance of the strangers."Who are you?" she asked."I am your new mother," answered the eldest of the three, "and theseare my daughters, your two new sisters."Rosy red trembled with fear. They were all three so ugly, and shebegan to cry.Her new sisters scolded her for that and would have beaten her had nother father appeared. He spoke kindly, telling her he had marriedagain, because he was lonely and that her step mother and step sisterswould be good to her. But Rosy red knew different. She hastened awayto her own little room and hid her slippers of which she was veryproud."They have turned my dear granny out of doors. they will take from memy beautiful slippers," she sobbed.After that, Rosy red sang no more. She became a somber girl and adrudge. The birds could not understand. They followed her through thewoods, but she was silent, as if she had been stricken dumb, and hereyes always seemed eager to be shedding tears. Also, she was too busyto notice her feathered friends.She had to collect firewood for the home, to draw water from the welland struggle along with the heavy bucket whose weight made her armsand her back ache with pain. Sometimes, too, her white arms werescarred with bruises, for her cruel and selfish step sisters did nothesitate to beat her. Often they went out to parties, or to dances,and on these occasions she had to act as their maid and help them todress. Rosy red did not mind. she was only happy when they were out ofthe house. Then only did she sing softly to herself, and the birdscame to listen.And thus many unhappy years passed away.Once, when her father was away from home, her step sisters went off toa wedding dance. They told her not to forget to draw water from thewell, and warned her that if she forgot, as she did the last time,they would beat her without mercy when they returned.So Rosy red, tired though she was, went out in the darkness to drawwater. She lowered the bucket, but the cord broke and the pail fell tothe bottom of the well. She ran back home for a long stick with a hookat the end of it to recover the bucket, and as she put it into thewater she sang:Swing and sweep till all does clingAnd to the surface safely bring.Now it so happened that a sleeping jinn dwelt at the bottom of thewell. He could only be awakened by a spell, and although Rosy red didnot know it, the words she uttered, which she had once heard hergranny use, were the spell.The jinn awoke, and he was so delighted with the sweet voice that hepromptly decided to help the girl whom he saw peering down into thewater. He fastened the bucket to the stick and, taking some jewelsfrom a treasure of which he was the guardian, he put them inside."Oh, how beautiful," cried Rosy red when she saw the glittering gems."They are ever so much nicer than those my sisters put on to go tothe ball."Then she sat thinking for a while and a bright idea came into herhead."I will give these jewels to my sisters," she said. "Perhaps they willbe kinder to me."She waited impatiently until the sisters returned from the dance andimmediately told them. For a moment they were too dazed to speak whenthey saw the sparkling precious stones. Then they looked meaningly atone another and asked how she came by them. Rosy told them of thewords she had sung."Ah, we thought so," said the sisters, to her horror. "The jewels areours. We hid them in the well for safety. You have stolen them."In vain Rosy red protested. Her sisters would not listen. They beather severely, told her to hurry off to bed, and then, snatching thebucket, they hurried off to the well. They lowered the bucket and sangthe words that Rosy red had sung. At least they thought they sang. buttheir voices were harsh. The sleeping jinn awoke again, but he did notlike the croaking sound the sisters made."Ha, ha!" he laughed. "I will teach you to disturb my sleep withhideous noises and shall punish such pranks played on me. Here aresome more croakers," and he filled the bucket with slimy toads andfrogs.The sisters were so enraged that they ran back home and dragged poorRosy red from her bed."You cat, you thief," screamed one."You cheat," exclaimed the other. "Off you go. Not another day can youremain in this house."Rosy red was too much taken by surprise to say anything. It was anoutrage to turn her out of her father's house while he was away on ajourney, but the thought came to her that she could hardly be lesshappy living alone in the woods.She had only time to snatch her pretty red slippers, and as soon asshe was out of sight of the house she put them on. It made her feelless miserable. The sun was now rising and when its rays shone on hershe began to sing. With her old friends, the birds, twittering allabout her, she felt quite happy.On and on she walked, much farther into the woods than ever before.When she grew tired there was always a pleasant shady nook where shecould rest. when she became hungry, there were fruit trees inabundance. and when she was thirsty she always came to a spring ofclear, fresh water. The magic slippers guided her. All day long shewandered, and when toward evening she noticed her slippers were muddyshe took them off to clean. And then darkness fell. It began to rainand she grew frightened. She crouched under a tree until she noticed alight some short distance away. She got up and walked toward it.When quite close, she saw that the light came from a cave dwelling. Anold woman came out to meet her. It was her grandmother, but so manyyears had passed that Rosy red did not recognize her. Granny, however,at once knew her. "Come in, my child, and take shelter from the rain,"she said kindly, and Rosy red was only too glad to accept theinvitation.The inside of the cave was quite cosy, and Rosy red, who was almostcompletely exhausted, quickly fell fast asleep. She awoke with astart."My pretty red slippers," she cried. "Where are they?"She put her hand in the pocket of her tattered dress, but could onlyfind one."I must have lost the other," she sobbed. "I must go out and look forit.""No, no," said granny. "You cannot do that. A storm is raging."Rosy red peered out through the door of the cave and drew back in fearas she saw the lightning flash and heard the thunder rolling. Shesobbed herself to sleep again, and this time was awakened by voices.She feared it might be her sisters who had discovered her hiding placeand had come to drag her forcibly back home again. So she crept into acorner of the cave and listened intently.A man was speaking."Know you to whom this red slipper belongs?" he was asking. "I foundit in the woods."Rosy red was on the point of rushing out to regain her lost slipperwhen her granny's voice very loud on purpose that she shouldhear restrained her."No, no, I know not," she repeated again and again, and at length theman departed.Granny came back into the cave and said, "I am sorry, Rosy red, butfor aught I knew, he might be a messenger from your cruel sisters.and, of course, I cannot let anyone take you back to them."Next day, the man called again, this time with several attendants.Again, Rosy red concealed herself."I am a chieftain's son, and wealthy," said the man. "I must find thewearer of this shoe. Only a graceful and beautiful girl can wear sucha dainty slipper."Rosy red did not know whether to be more frightened or pleased, whenher granny told her the man was very handsome and of noble bearing.Day after day he came, each time with more retainers, and, finally, hearrived mounted on a richly caparisoned camel with a hundred and onefollowers, all mounted as he was."The girl I seek is here," he said. "Deny it no longer. My servantshave scoured the woods and the whole neighborhood. One is prepared toswear he heard a young girl singing yesterday."Rosy red saw that concealment was no longer possible. She liked theman's voice, and she stepped out bravely, wearing her one slipper.The stranger, bowing low before her, held out the other, and Rosy redtook it and put it on. It fitted perfectly."Many girls have tried to put on that shoe," said the young man, "butall have failed. And I have sworn to make the wearer my bride. I am achieftain's son, and thou shalt be a princess."So Rosy red left the cave with her granny, and mounting a camel wasled through the woods to her new home where she knew naught buthappiness and the days of her sufferings were quite forgotten. Andalways she wore her magic red slippers.