Once upon a time there lived a poor fisher who built a hut on the banksof a stream which, shunning the glare of the sun and the noise of thetowns, flowed quietly past trees and under bushes, listening to thesongs of the birds overhead.One day, when the fisherman had gone out as usual to cast his nets, hesaw borne towards him on the current a cradle of crystal. Slipping hisnet quickly beneath it he drew it out and lifted the silk coverlet.Inside, lying on a soft bed of cotton, were two babies, a boy and agirl, who opened their eyes and smiled at him. The man was filled withpity at the sight, and throwing down his lines he took the cradle andthe babies home to his wife.The good woman flung up her hands in despair when she beheld thecontents of the cradle.'Are not eight children enough,' she cried, 'without bringing us twomore? How do you think we can feed them?''You would not have had me leave them to die of hunger,' answered he,'or be swallowed up by the waves of the sea? What is enough for eightis also enough for ten.'The wife said no more. and in truth her heart yearned over the littlecreatures. Somehow or other food was never lacking in the hut, and thechildren grew up and were so good and gentle that, in time, theirfoster parents loved them as well or better than their own, who werequarrelsome and envious. It did not take the orphans long to noticethat the boys did not like them, and were always playing tricks onthem, so they used to go away by themselves and spend whole hours bythe banks of the river. Here they would take out the bits of breadthey had saved from their breakfasts and crumble them for the birds.In return, the birds taught them many things: how to get up early inthe morning, how to sing, and how to talk their language, which veryfew people know.But though the little orphans did their best to avoid quarrelling withtheir foster  brothers, it was very difficult always to keep the peace.Matters got worse and worse till, one morning, the eldest boy said tothe twins:'It is all very well for you to pretend that you have such goodmanners, and are so much better than we, but we have at least a fatherand mother, while you have only got the river, like the toads and thefrogs.'The poor children did not answer the insult. but it made them veryunhappy. And they told each other in whispers that they could not staythere any longer, but must go into the world and seek their fortunes.So next day they arose as early as the birds and stole downstairswithout anybody hearing them. One window was open, and they creptsoftly out and ran to the side of the river. Then, feeling as if theyhad found a friend, they walked along its banks, hoping that by  and bythey should meet some one to take care of them.The whole of that day they went steadily on without seeing a livingcreature, till, in the evening, weary and footsore, they saw beforethem a small hut. This raised their spirits for a moment. but the doorwas shut, and the hut seemed empty, and so great was theirdisappointment that they almost cried. However, the boy fought downhis tears, and said cheerfully:'Well, at any rate here is a bench where we can sit down, and when weare rested we will think what is best to do next.'Then they sat down, and for some time they were too tired even tonotice anything. but by and by they saw that under the tiles of theroof a number of swallows were sitting, chattering merrily to eachother. Of course the swallows had no idea that the children understoodtheir language, or they would not have talked so freely. but, as itwas, they said whatever came into their heads.'Good evening, my fine city madam,' remarked a swallow, whose mannerswere rather rough and countryfied to another who looked particularlydistinguished. 'Happy, indeed, are the eyes that behold you! Onlythink of your having returned to your long forgotten country friends,after you have lived for years in a palace!''I have inherited this nest from my parents,' replied the other, 'andas they left it to me I certainly shall make it my home. But,' sheadded politely, 'I hope that you and all your family are well?''Very well indeed, I am glad to say. But my poor daughter had, a shorttime ago, such bad inflammation in her eyes that she would have goneblind had I not been able to find the magic herb, which cured her atonce.''And how is the nightingale singing? Does the lark soar as high asever? And does the linnet dress herself as smartly?' But here thecountry swallow drew herself up.'I never talk gossip,' she said severely. 'Our people, who were onceso innocent and well behaved, have been corrupted by the bad examplesof men. It is a thousand pities.''What! innocence and good behaviour are not to be met with among birds,nor in the country! My dear friend, what are you saying?''The truth and nothing more. Imagine, when we returned here, we metsome linnets who, just as the spring and the flowers and the long dayshad come, were setting out for the north and the cold? Out of purecompassion we tried to persuade them to give up this folly. but theyonly replied with the utmost insolence.''How shocking!' exclaimed the city swallow.'Yes, it was. And worse than that, the crested lark, that was formerlyso timid and shy, is now no better than a thief, and steals maize andcorn whenever she can find them.''I am astonished at what you say.''You will be more astonished when I tell you that on my arrival herefor the summer I found my nest occupied by a shameless sparrow! "Thisis my nest," I said. "Yours?" he answered, with a rude laugh. "Yes,mine. my ancestors were born here, and my sons will be born here also."And at that my husband set upon him and threw him out of the nest. Iam sure nothing of this sort ever happens in a town.''Not exactly, perhaps. But I have seen a great deal if you only knew!''Oh! do tell us! do tell us!' cried they all. And when they hadsettled themselves comfortably, the city swallow began:'You must know, then that our king fell in love with the youngestdaughter of a tailor, who was as good and gentle as she was beautiful.His nobles hoped that he would have chosen a queen from one of theirdaughters, and tried to prevent the marriage. but the king would notlisten to them, and it took place. Not many months later a war brokeout, and the king rode away at the head of his army, while the queenremained behind, very unhappy at the separation. When peace was made,and the king returned, he was told that his wife had had two babies inhis absence, but that both were dead. that she herself had gone out ofher mind and was obliged to be shut up in a tower in the mountains,where, in time, the fresh air might cure her.''And was this not true?' asked the swallows eagerly.'Of course not,' answered the city lady, with some contempt for theirstupidity. 'The children were alive at that very moment in thegardener's cottage. but at night the chamberlain came down and put themin a cradle of crystal, which he carried to the river.'For a whole day they floated safely, for though the stream was deep itwas very still, and the children took no harm. In the morning so I amtold by my friend the kingfisher they were rescued by a fisherman wholived near the river bank.'The children had been lying on the bench, listening lazily to thechatter up to this point. but when they heard the story of the crystalcradle which their foster mother had always been fond of telling them,they sat upright and looked at each other.'Oh, how glad I am I learnt the birds' language!' said the eyes of oneto the eyes of the other.Meanwhile the swallows had spoken again.'That was indeed good fortune!' cried they.'And when the children are grown up they can return to their father andset their mother free.''It will not be so easy as you think,' answered the city swallow,shaking her head. 'for they will have to prove that they are the king'schildren, and also that their mother never went mad at all. In fact,it is so difficult that there is only one way of proving it to theking.''And what is that?' cried all the swallows at once. 'And how do youknow it?''I know it,' answered the city swallow, 'because, one day, when I waspassing through the palace garden, I met a cuckoo, who, as I need nottell you, always pretends to be able to see into the future. We beganto talk about certain things which were happening in the palace, and ofthe events of past years. "Ah," said he, "the only person who canexpose the wickedness of the ministers and show the king how wrong hehas been, is the Bird of Truth, who can speak the language of men."'"And where can this bird be found?" I asked.'"It is shut up in a castle guarded by a fierce giant, who only sleepsone quarter of an hour out of the whole twenty four," replied thecuckoo.'And where is this castle?' inquired the country swallow, who, like allthe rest, and the children most of all, had been listening with deepattention.'That is just what I don't know,' answered her friend. 'All I can tellyou is that not far from here is a tower, where dwells an old witch,and it is she who knows the way, and she will only teach it to theperson who promises to bring her the water from the fountain of manycolours, which she uses for her enchantments. But never will shebetray the place where the Bird of Truth is hidden, for she hates him,and would kill him if she could. knowing well, however, that this birdcannot die, as he is immortal, she keeps him closely shut up, andguarded night and day by the Birds of Bad Faith, who seek to gag him sothat his voice should not be heard.''And is there no one else who can tell the poor boy where to find thebird, if he should ever manage to reach the tower?' asked the countryswallow.'No one,' replied the city swallow, 'except an owl, who lives ahermit's life in that desert, and he knows only one word of man'sspeech, and that is "cross." So that even if the prince did succeed ingetting there, he could never understand what the owl said. But, look,the sun is sinking to his nest in the depths of the sea, and I must goto mine. Good night, friends, good night!'Then the swallow flew away, and the children, who had forgotten bothhunger and weariness in the joy of this strange news, rose up andfollowed in the direction of her flight. After two hours' walking,they arrived at a large city, which they felt sure must be the capitalof their father's kingdom. Seeing a good natured looking womanstanding at the door of a house, they asked her if she would give thema night's lodging, and she was so pleased with their pretty faces andnice manners that she welcomed them warmly.It was scarcely light the next morning before the girl was sweeping outthe rooms, and the boy watering the garden, so that by the time thegood woman came downstairs there was nothing left for her to do. Thisso delighted her that she begged the children to stay with heraltogether, and the boy answered that he would leave his sisters withher gladly, but that he himself had serious business on hand and mustnot linger in pursuit of it. So he bade them farewell and set out.For three days he wandered by the most out  of the way paths, but nosigns of a tower were to be seen anywhere. On the fourth morning itwas just the same, and, filled with despair, he flung himself on theground under a tree and hid his face in his hands. In a little whilehe heard a rustling over his head, and looking up, he saw a turtle dovewatching him with her bright eyes.'Oh dove!' cried the boy, addressing the bird in her own language, 'Ohdove! tell me, I pray you, where is the castle of Come and  never go?''Poor child,' answered the dove, 'who has sent you on such a uselessquest?''My good or evil fortune,' replied the boy, 'I know not which.''To get there,' said the dove, 'you must follow the wind, which to dayis blowing towards the castle.'The boy thanked her, and followed the wind, fearing all the time thatit might change its direction and lead him astray. But the wind seemedto feel pity for him and blew steadily on.With each step the country became more and more dreary, but atnightfall the child could see behind the dark and bare rocks somethingdarker still. This was the tower in which dwelt the witch. and seizingthe knocker he gave three loud knocks, which were echoed in the hollowsof the rocks around.The door opened slowly, and there appeared on the threshold an oldwoman holding up a candle to her face, which was so hideous that theboy involuntarily stepped backwards, almost as frightened by the troopof lizards, beetles and such creatures that surrounded her, as by thewoman herself.'Who are you who dare to knock at my door and wake me?' cried she. 'Bequick and tell me what you want, or it will be the worse for you.''Madam,' answered the child, 'I believe that you alone know the way tothe castle of Come  and never go, and I pray you to show it to me.''Very good,' replied the witch, with something that she meant for asmile, 'but to day it is late. To morrow you shall go. Now enter, andyou shall sleep with my lizards.''I cannot stay,' said he. 'I must go back at once, so as to reach theroad from which I started before day dawns.''If I tell you, will you promise me that you will bring me this jarfull of the many  coloured water from the spring in the court  yard ofthe castle?' asked she. 'If you fail to keep your word I will changeyou into a lizard for ever.''I promise,' answered the boy.Then the old woman called to a very thin dog, and said to him:'Conduct this pig of a child to the castle of Come and never go, andtake care that you warn my friend of his arrival.' And the dog aroseand shook itself, and set out.At the end of two hours they stopped in front of a large castle, bigand black and gloomy, whose doors stood wide open, although neithersound nor light gave sign of any presence within. The dog, however,seemed to know what to expect, and, after a wild howl, went on. but theboy, who was uncertain whether this was the quarter of an hour when thegiant was asleep, hesitated to follow him, and paused for a momentunder a wild olive that grew near by, the only tree which he had beheldsince he had parted from the dove. 'Oh, heaven, help me!' cried he.'Cross! cross!' answered a voice.The boy leapt for joy as he recognised the note of the owl of which theswallow had spoken, and he said softly in the bird's language:'Oh, wise owl, I pray you to protect and guide me, for I have come insearch of the Bird of Truth. And first I must fill this far with themany coloured water in the courtyard of the castle.''Do not do that,' answered the owl, 'but fill the jar from the springwhich bubbles close by the fountain with the many coloured water.Afterwards, go into the aviary opposite the great door, but be carefulnot to touch any of the bright plumaged birds contained in it, whichwill cry to you, each one, that he is the Bird of Truth. Choose only asmall white bird that is hidden in a corner, which the others tryincessantly to kill, not knowing that it cannot die. And, bequick! for at this very moment the giant has fallen asleep, and youhave only a quarter of an hour to do everything.'The boy ran as fast as he could and entered the courtyard, where he sawthe two spring close together. He passed by the many  coloured waterwithout casting a glance at it, and filled the jar from the fountainwhose water was clear and pure. He next hastened to the aviary, andwas almost deafened by the clamour that rose as he shut the door behindhim. Voices of peacocks, voices of ravens, voices of magpies, eachclaiming to be the Bird of Truth. With steadfast face the boy walkedby them all, to the corner, where, hemmed in by a hand of fierce crows,was the small white bird he sought. Putting her safely in his breast,he passed out, followed by the screams of the birds of Bad Faith whichhe left behind him.Once outside, he ran without stopping to the witch's tower, and handedto the old woman the jar she had given him.'Become a parrot!' cried she, flinging the water over him. But insteadof losing his shape, as so many had done before, he only grew ten timeshandsomer. for the water was enchanted for good and not ill. Then thecreeping multitude around the witch hastened to roll themselves in thewater, and stood up, human beings again.When the witch saw what was happening, she took a broomstick and flewaway.Who can guess the delight of the sister at the sight of her brother,bearing the Bird of Truth? But although the boy had accomplished much,something very difficult yet remained, and that was how to carry theBird of Truth to the king without her being seized by the wickedcourtiers, who would be ruined by the discovery of their plot.Soon no one knew how the news spread abroad that the Bird of Truthwas hovering round the palace, and the courtiers made all sorts ofpreparations to hinder her reaching the king.They got ready weapons that were sharpened, and weapons that werepoisoned. they sent for eagles and falcons to hunt her down, andconstructed cages and boxes in which to shut her up if they were notable to kill her. They declared that her white plumage was really puton to hide her black feathers in fact there was nothing they did notdo in order to prevent the king from seeing the bird or from payingattention to her words if he did.As often happens in these cases, the courtiers brought about that whichthey feared. They talked so much about the Bird of Truth that at lastthe king heard of it, and expressed a wish to see her. The moredifficulties that were put in his way the stronger grew his desire, andin the end the king published a proclamation that whoever found theBird of Truth should bring her to him without delay.As soon as he saw this proclamation the boy called his sister, and theyhastened to the palace. The bird was buttoned inside his tunic, but,as might have been expected, the courtiers barred the way, and told thechild that he could not enter. It was in vain that the boy declaredthat he was only obeying the king's commands. the courtiers onlyreplied that his majesty was not yet out of bed, and it was forbiddento wake him.They were still talking, when, suddenly, the bird settled the questionby flying upwards through an open window into the king's own room.Alighting on the pillow, close to the king's head, she bowedrespectfully, and said:'My lord, I am the Bird of Truth whom you wished to see, and I havebeen obliged to approach you in the manner because the boy who broughtme is kept out of the palace by your courtiers.''They shall pay for their insolence,' said the king. And he instantlyordered one of his attendants to conduct the boy at once to hisapartments. and in a moment more the prince entered, holding his sisterby the hand.'Who are you?' asked the king. 'and what has the Bird of Truth to dowith you?''If it please your majesty, the Bird of Truth will explain thatherself,' answered the boy.And the bird did explain. and the king heard for the first time of thewicked plot that had been successful for so many years. He took hischildren in his arms, with tears in his eyes, and hurried off with themto the tower in the mountains where the queen was shut up. The poorwoman was as white as marble, for she had been living almost indarkness. but when she saw her husband and children, the colour cameback to her face, and she was as beautiful as ever.They all returned in state to the city, where great rejoicings wereheld. The wicked courtiers had their heads cut off, and all theirproperty was taken away. As for the good old couple, they were givenriches and honour, and were loved and cherished to the end of theirlives.