Three brothers lived with their old Indian motherin the forest near the sea. Their father had longbeen dead. At his death he had little of theworld's goods to his credit and his widow and her sons werevery poor. In the place where they dwelt, game was notplentiful, and to get food enough to keep them from wantthey had often to go far into the forest.The youngest boy was smaller and weaker than the others, and when the twoolder sons went far away to hunt, they always left himbehind, for although he always wished to accompany themthey would never allow him to go. He had to do all thework about the house, and all day long he gathered woodin the forest and carried water from the stream. And evenwhen his brothers went out in the springtime to draw sapfrom the maple trees he was never permitted to go withthem. He was always making mistakes and doing foolishthings.His brothers called him Thick Head, and all thepeople round about said he was a simpleton because ofhis slow and queer ways.His mother alone was kind to him and she always said, "They may laugh at you and call you fool, but you will prove to be wiser than all ofthem yet, for so it was told me by a forest fairy at yourbirth."The chief of the people had a beautiful daughter whohad many suitors. But her father spurned them all fromhis door and said, "My daughter is not yet of age to marry.and when her time of marriage comes, she will only marrythe man who can make great profit from hunting."The two older sons of the old woman decided that one of themmust win the girl. So they prepared to set out on a greathunting expedition far away in the northern forest, for itwas now autumn, and the hunter's moon had come.The youngest boy wanted to go with them, for he had never beenaway from home and he wished to see the world. And hismother said he might go.His brothers were very angry when they heard his request, and they said, "Much good Thick Head can do us in the chase. He will only bring usbad luck. He is not a hunter but a scullion and a drudgefit only for the fireside."But his mother commanded them to grant the boy's wish and they had to obey. So the three brothers set out for the north country, the two older brothersgrumbling loudly because they were accompanied by the boy they thought a fool.The two older brothers had good success in the chaseand they killed many animals deer and rabbits and ottersand beavers. And they came home bearing a great quantity of dried meat and skins.They each thought, "Now we have begun to prove our prowess to the chief, and if we succeed as well next year when the hunter's moon comesagain, one of us will surely win his daughter when she is oldenough to marry."But all the youngest boy brought home as a result of his journey into the game country was a large earth worm as thick as his finger and as long as his arm. It was the biggest earth worm he had ever seen. He thoughtit a great curiosity as well as a great discovery, and he wasso busy watching it each day that he had no time to hunt.When he brought it home in a box, his brothers said to theirmother, "What did we tell you about Thick Head? He hasnow surely proved himself a fool. He has caught only afat earth worm in all these weeks." And they noised itabroad in the village and all the people laughed loudly atthe simpleton, until "Thick Head's hunt" became a by wordin all the land.But the boy's mother only smiled and said,"He will surprise them all yet."The boy kept the earth worm in a tiny pen just outsidethe door of his home. One day a large duck came waddlingalong, and sticking her bill over the little fence of the penshe quickly gobbled up the worm.The boy was very angry and he went to the man who owned the duck, and said,"Your duck ate up my pet worm. I want my worm."The man offered to pay him whatever price he asked, butthe boy said, " I do not want your price. I want my worm."But the man said, " How can I give you your worm whenmy duck has eaten it up? It is gone forever."And the boy said, "It is not gone. It is in the duck'sbelly. So I must have the duck."Then to avoid further trouble the man gave Thick Head the duck, for hethought to himself, "What is the use of arguing with afool?"The boy took the duck home and kept it in a little pennear his home with a low fence around it. And he tied agreat weight to its foot so that it could not fly away. Hewas quite happy again, for he thought, "Now I have both myworm and the duck."But one day a fox came prowling along looking for food. He saw the fat duck tied by the foot in the little pen. And he said, "What good fortune! Thereis a choice meal for me," and in a twinkling he was over thefence. The duck quacked and made a great noise, but shewas soon silenced. The fox had just finished eating upthe duck when the boy, who had heard the quacking, camerunning out of the house. The fox was smacking his lipsafter his good meal, and he was too slow in getting away.The boy fell to beating him with a stout club and soon killedhim and threw his body into the yard behind the house.And he thought, "That is not so bad. Now I have my worm andthe duck and the fox."That night an old wolf came through the forest in searchof food. He was very hungry, and in the bright moonlighthe saw the dead fox lying in the yard. He pounced uponit greedily and devoured it until not a trace of it was left.But the boy saw him before he could get away, and he camestealthily upon him and killed him with a blow of his axe."I am surely in good luck," he thought, "for now I havethe worm and the duck and the fox and the wolf."But the next day when he told his brothers of his goodfortune and his great skill, they laughed at him loudlyand said, "Much good a dead wolf will do you. Beforetwo days have passed it will be but an evil smellingthing and we shall have to bury it deep. You are indeeda great fool."The boy pondered for a long time overwhat they had said, and he thought, "Perhaps they areright. The dead wolf cannot last long. I will save theskin."So he skinned the wolf and dried the skin and made adrum from it. For the drum was one of the few musicalinstruments of the Indians in those old times, and they beatit loudly at all their dances and festivals. The boy beat thedrum each evening, and made a great noise, and he was veryproud because he had the only drum in the whole village.One day the chief sent for him and said to him, "I want toborrow your drum for this evening. I am having a greatgathering to announce to all the land that my daughter isnow of age to marry and that suitors may now seek her handin marriage. But we have no musical instruments and I want your drum, and I myself will beat it at the dance."So Thick Head brought his drum to the chief's house, but hewas not very well pleased, because he was not invited tothe feast, while his brothers were among the favored guests.And he said to the chief, "Be very careful. Do not tearthe skin of my drum, for I can never get another like it. Myworm and my duck and my fox and my wolf have all helpedto make it."The next day he went for his drum. But the chief hadstruck it too hard and had split it open so that it would nowmake no sound and it was ruined beyond repair.He offered to pay the boy a great price for it, but the boy said, "I donot want your price. I want my drum. Give me back mydrum, for my worm and the duck and the fox and the wolfare all in it."The chief said, "How can I give you backyour drum when it is broken? It is gone forever. I willgive you anything you desire in exchange for it. Since youdo not like the price I offer, you may name your own priceand you shall have it."And the boy thought to himself,"Here is a chance for good fortune. Now I shall surprisemy brothers." And he said, "Since you cannot give me mydrum, I will take your daughter in marriage in exchange."The chief was much perplexed, but he had to be true to hisword. So he gave his daughter to Thick Head, and theywere married, and the girl brought him much treasure andthey lived very happily. And his brothers were much amazedand angered because they had failed.But his mother said, "I told you he was wiser than you and that he would outwit you yet although you called him Thick Head and fool. Forthe forest fairy said it to me at his birth."