Once upon a time a great and powerful King married a lovely Princess. Nocouple were ever so happy. but before their honeymoon was over they wereforced to part, for the King had to go on a warlike expedition to a farcountry, and leave his young wife alone at home. Bitter were the tearsshe shed, while her husband sought in vain to soothe her with words ofcomfort and counsel, warning her, above all things, never to leavethe castle, to hold no intercourse with strangers, to beware of evilcounsellors, and especially to be on her guard against strange women.And the Queen promised faithfully to obey her royal lord and master inthese four matters.So when the King set out on his expedition she shut herself up withher ladies in her own apartments, and spent her time in spinning andweaving, and in thinking of her royal husband. Often she was very sadand lonely, and it happened that one day while she was seated at thewindow, letting salt tears drop on her work, an old woman, a kind,homely looking old body, stepped up to the window, and, leaning upon hercrutch, addressed the Queen in friendly, flattering tones, saying:'Why are you sad and cast down, fair Queen? You should not mope all dayin your rooms, but should come out into the green garden, and hear thebirds sing with joy among the trees, and see the butterflies flutteringabove the flowers, and hear the bees and insects hum, and watchthe sunbeams chase the dew drops through the rose leaves and in thelily cups. All the brightness outside would help to drive away yourcares, O Queen.'For long the Queen resisted her coaxing words, remembering the promiseshe had given the King, her husband. but at last she thought to herself:After all, what harm would it do if I were to go into the garden for ashort time and enjoy myself among the trees and flowers, and the singingbirds and fluttering butterflies and humming insects, and look atthe dew drops hiding from the sunbeams in the hearts of the roses andlilies, and wander about in the sunshine, instead of remaining allday in this room? For she had no idea that the kind looking old womanleaning on her crutch was in reality a wicked witch, who envied theQueen her good fortune, and was determined to ruin her. And so, in allignorance, the Queen followed her out into the garden and listened toher smooth, flattering words. Now, in the middle of the garden there wasa pond of water, clear as crystal, and the old woman said to the Queen:'The day is so warm, and the sun's rays so scorching, that the water inthe pond looks very cool and inviting. Would you not like to bathe init, fair Queen?''No, I think not,' answered the Queen. but the next moment she regrettedher words, and thought to herself: Why shouldn't I bathe in that cool,fresh water? No harm could come of it. And, so saying, she slipped offher robes and stepped into the water. But scarcely had her tender feettouched the cool ripples when she felt a great shove on her shoulders,and the wicked witch had pushed her into the deep water, exclaiming:'Swim henceforth, White Duck!'And the witch herself assumed the form of the Queen, and decked herselfout in the royal robes, and sat among the Court ladies, awaiting theKing's return. And suddenly the tramp of horses' hoofs was heard, andthe barking of dogs, and the witch hastened forward to meet the royalcarriages, and, throwing her arms round the King's neck, kissed him.And in his great joy the King did not know that the woman he held in hisarms was not his own dear wife, but a wicked witch.In the meantime, outside the palace walls, the poor White Duck swam upand down the pond. and near it laid three eggs, out of which there cameone morning two little fluffy ducklings and a little ugly drake. And theWhite Duck brought the little creatures up, and they paddled after herin the pond, and caught gold fish, and hopped upon the bank and waddledabout, ruffling their feathers and saying 'Quack, quack' as theystrutted about on the green banks of the pond. But their mother used towarn them not to stray too far, telling them that a wicked witch livedin the castle beyond the garden, adding, 'She has ruined me, and shewill do her best to ruin you.' But the young ones did not listen totheir mother, and, playing about the garden one day, they strayed closeup to the castle windows. The witch at once recognised them by theirsmell, and ground her teeth with anger. but she hid her feelings, and,pretending to be very kind she called them to her and joked with them,and led them into a beautiful room, where she gave them food to eat, andshowed them a soft cushion on which they might sleep. Then she left themand went down into the palace kitchens, where she told the servants tosharpen the knives, and to make a great fire ready, and hang a largekettleful of water over it.In the meantime the two little ducklings had fallen asleep, and thelittle drake lay between them, covered up by their wings, to be keptwarm under their feathers. But the little drake could not go to sleep,and as he lay there wide awake in the night he heard the witch come tothe door and say:'Little ones, are you asleep?'And the little drake answered for the other two:'We cannot sleep, we wake and weep,Sharp is the knife, to take our life.The fire is hot, now boils the pot,And so we wake, and lie and quake.''They are not asleep yet,' muttered the witch to herself. and she walkedup and down in the passage, and then came back to the door, and said:'Little ones, are you asleep?'And again the little drake answered for his sisters:'We cannot sleep, we wake and weep,Sharp is the knife, to take our life.The fire is hot, now boils the pot,And so we wake, and lie and quake.''Just the same answer,' muttered the witch. 'I think I'll go in andsee.' So she opened the door gently, and seeing the two little ducklingssound asleep, she there and then killed them.The next morning the White Duck wandered round the pond in a distractedmanner, looking for her little ones. she called and she searched, butcould find no trace of them. And in her heart she had a foreboding thatevil had befallen them, and she fluttered up out of the water and flewto the palace. And there, laid out on the marble floor of the court,dead and stone cold, were her three children. The White Duck threwherself upon them, and, covering up their little bodies with her wings,she cried:'Quack, quack my little loves!Quack, quack my turtle doves!I brought you up with grief and pain,And now before my eyes you're slain.I gave you always of the best.I kept you warm in my soft nest.I loved and watched you day and night You were my joy, my one delight.'The King heard the sad complaint of the White Duck, and called to thewitch: 'Wife, what a wonder is this? Listen to that White Duck.'But the witch answered, 'My dear husband, what do you mean? There isnothing wonderful in a duck's quacking. Here, servants! Chase that duckout of the courtyard.' But though the servants chased and chevied, theycould not get rid of the duck. for she circled round and round, andalways came back to the spot where her children lay, crying:'Quack, quack my little loves!Quack, quack my turtle doves!The wicked witch your lives did take The wicked witch, the cunning snake.First she stole my King away,Then my children did she slay.Changed me, from a happy wife,To a duck for all my life.Would I were the Queen again.Would that you had never been slain.'And as the King heard her words he began to suspect that he had beendeceived, and he called out to the servants, 'Catch that duck, and bringit here.' But, though they ran to and fro, the duck always fled pastthem, and would not let herself be caught. So the King himself steppeddown amongst them, and instantly the duck fluttered down into his hands.And as he stroked her wings she was changed into a beautiful woman, andhe recognised his dear wife. And she told him that a bottle would befound in her nest in the garden, containing some drops from the springof healing. And it was brought to her. and the ducklings and littledrake were sprinkled with the water, and from the little dead bodiesthree lovely children arose. And the King and Queen were overjoyed whenthey saw their children, and they all lived happily together in thebeautiful palace. But the wicked witch was taken by the King's command,and she came to no good end.