Once upon a time, in the very middle of the middle of a large kingdom,there was a town, and in the town a palace, and in the palace a king.This king had one son whom his father thought was wiser and clevererthan any son ever was before, and indeed his father had spared no painsto make him so. He had been very careful in choosing his tutors andgovernors when he was a boy, and when he became a youth he sent him totravel, so that he might see the ways of other people, and find thatthey were often as good as his own.It was now a year since the prince had returned home, for his fatherfelt that it was time that his son should learn how to rule the kingdomwhich would one day be his. But during his long absence the princeseemed to have changed his character altogether. From being a merry andlight hearted boy, he had grown into a gloomy and thoughtful man. Theking knew of nothing that could have produced such an alteration.He vexed himself about it from morning till night, till at length anexplanation occurred to him the young man was in love!Now the prince never talked about his feelings for the matter of thathe scarcely talked at all. and the father knew that if he was to come tothe bottom of the prince's dismal face, he would have to begin. So oneday, after dinner, he took his son by the arm and led him into anotherroom, hung entirely with the pictures of beautiful maidens, each onemore lovely than the other.'My dear boy,' he said, 'you are very sad. perhaps after all yourwanderings it is dull for you here all alone with me. It would be muchbetter if you would marry, and I have collected here the portraitsof the most beautiful women in the world of a rank equal to your own.Choose which among them you would like for a wife, and I will send anembassy to her father to ask for her hand.''Alas! your Majesty,' answered the prince, 'it is not love or marriagethat makes me so gloomy. but the thought, which haunts me day and night,that all men, even kings, must die. Never shall I be happy again tillI have found a kingdom where death is unknown. And I have determined togive myself no rest till I have discovered the Land of Immortality.The old king heard him with dismay. things were worse than he thought.He tried to reason with his son, and told him that during all theseyears he had been looking forward to his return, in order to resign histhrone and its cares, which pressed so heavily upon him. But it wasin vain that he talked. the prince would listen to nothing, and thefollowing morning buckled on his sword and set forth on his journey.He had been travelling for many days, and had left his fatherland behindhim, when close to the road he came upon a huge tree, and on its topmostbough an eagle was sitting shaking the branches with all his might. Thisseemed so strange and so unlike an eagle, that the prince stood stillwith surprise, and the bird saw him and flew to the ground. The momentits feet touched the ground he changed into a king.'Why do you look so astonished?' he asked.'I was wondering why you shook the boughs so fiercely,' answered theprince.'I am condemned to do this, for neither I nor any of my kindred can dietill I have rooted up this great tree,' replied the king of the eagles.'But it is now evening, and I need work no more to day. Come to my housewith me, and be my guest for the night.'The prince accepted gratefully the eagle's invitation, for he was tiredand hungry. They were received at the palace by the king's beautifuldaughter, who gave orders that dinner should be laid for them atonce. While they were eating, the eagle questioned his guest abouthis travels, and if he was wandering for pleasure's sake, or with anyspecial aim. Then the prince told him everything, and how he could neverturn back till he had discovered the Land of Immortality.'Dear brother,' said the eagle, 'you have discovered it already, and itrejoices my heart to think that you will stay with us. Have you not justheard me say that death has no power either over myself or any of mykindred till that great tree is rooted up? It will take me six hundredyears' hard work to do that. so marry my daughter and let us all livehappily together here. After all, six hundred years is an eternity!''Ah, dear king,' replied the young man, 'your offer is very tempting!But at the end of six hundred years we should have to die, so we shouldbe no better off! No, I must go on till I find the country where thereis no death at all.'Then the princess spoke, and tried to persuade the guest to change hismind, but he sorrowfully shook his head. At length, seeing that hisresolution was firmly fixed, she took from a cabinet a little box whichcontained her picture, and gave it to him saying:'As you will not stay with us, prince, accept this box, which willsometimes recall us to your memory. If you are tired of travellingbefore you come to the Land of Immortality, open this box and look atmy picture, and you will be borne along either on earth or in the air,quick as thought, or swift as the whirlwind.'The prince thanked her for her gift, which he placed in his tunic, andsorrowfully bade the eagle and his daughter farewell.Never was any present in the world as useful as that little box, andmany times did he bless the kind thought of the princess. One evening ithad carried him to the top of a high mountain, where he saw a man with abald head, busily engaged in digging up spadefuls of earth and throwingthem in a basket. When the basket was full he took it away and returnedwith an empty one, which he likewise filled. The prince stood andwatched him for a little, till the bald headed man looked up and said tohim: 'Dear brother, what surprises you so much?''I was wondering why you were filling the basket,' replied the prince.'Oh!' replied the man, 'I am condemned to do this, for neither I nor anyof my family can die till I have dug away the whole of this mountain andmade it level with the plain. But, come, it is almost dark, and I shallwork no longer.' And he plucked a leaf from a tree close by, and from arough digger he was changed into a stately bald headed king. 'Come homewith me,' he added. 'you must be tired and hungry, and my daughter willhave supper ready for us.' The prince accepted gladly, and they wentback to the palace, where the bald headed king's daughter, who was stillmore beautiful than the other princess, welcomed them at the door andled the way into a large hall and to a table covered with silver dishes.While they were eating, the bald headed king asked the prince how he hadhappened to wander so far, and the young man told him all about it, andhow he was seeking the Land of Immortality. 'You have found it already,'answered the king, 'for, as I said, neither I nor my family can dietill I have levelled this great mountain. and that will take full eighthundred years longer. Stay here with us and marry my daughter. Eighthundred years is surely long enough to live.''Oh, certainly,' answered the prince. 'but, all the same, I would rathergo and seek the land where there is no death at all.'So next morning he bade them farewell, though the princess begged him tostay with all her might. and when she found that she could not persuadehim she gave him as a remembrance a gold ring. This ring was still moreuseful than the box, because when one wished oneself at any place onewas there directly, without even the trouble of flying to it through theair. The prince put it on his finger, and thanking her heartily, wenthis way.He walked on for some distance, and then he recollected the ring andthought he would try if the princess had spoken truly as to its powers.'I wish I was at the end of the world,' he said, shutting his eyes, andwhen he opened them he was standing in a street full of marble palaces.The men who passed him were tall and strong, and their clothes weremagnificent. He stopped some of them and asked in all the twenty sevenlanguages he knew what was the name of the city, but no one answeredhim. Then his heart sank within him. what should he do in this strangeplace if nobody could understand anything? he said. Suddenly his eyesfell upon a man dressed after the fashion of his native country, and heran up to him and spoke to him in his own tongue. 'What city is this, myfriend?' he inquired.'It is the capital city of the Blue Kingdom,' replied the man, 'but theking himself is dead, and his daughter is now the ruler.'With this news the prince was satisfied, and begged his countryman toshow him the way to the young queen's palace. The man led him throughseveral streets into a large square, one side of which was occupied by asplendid building that seemed borne up on slender pillars of soft greenmarble. In front was a flight of steps, and on these the queen wassitting wrapped in a veil of shining silver mist, listening to thecomplaints of her people and dealing out justice. When the princecame up she saw directly that he was no ordinary man, and telling herchamberlain to dismiss the rest of her petitioners for that day, shesigned to the prince to follow her into the palace. Luckily she had beentaught his language as a child, so they had no difficulty in talkingtogether.The prince told all his story and how he was journeying in search ofthe Land of Immortality. When he had finished, the princess, who hadlistened attentively, rose, and taking his arm, led him to the door ofanother room, the floor of which was made entirely of needles, stuck soclose together that there was not room for a single needle more.'Prince,' she said, turning to him, 'you see these needles? Well, knowthat neither I nor any of my family can die till I have worn out theseneedles in sewing. It will take at least a thousand years for that. Stayhere, and share my throne. a thousand years is long enough to live!''Certainly,' answered he. 'still, at the end of the thousand years Ishould have to die! No, I must find the land where there is no death.'The queen did all she could to persuade him to stay, but as her wordsproved useless, at length she gave it up. Then she said to him: 'As youwill not stay, take this little golden rod as a remembrance of me. Ithas the power to become anything you wish it to be, when you are inneed.'So the prince thanked her, and putting the rod in his pocket, went hisway.Scarcely had he left the town behind him when he came to a broad riverwhich no man might pass, for he was standing at the end of the world,and this was the river which flowed round it. Not knowing what to donext, he walked a little distance up the bank, and there, over his head,a beautiful city was floating in the air. He longed to get to it, buthow? neither road nor bridge was anywhere to be seen, yet the city drewhim upwards, and he felt that here at last was the country which hesought. Suddenly he remembered the golden rod which the mist veiledqueen had given him. With a beating heart he flung it to the ground,wishing with all his might that it should turn into a bridge, andfearing that, after all, this might prove beyond its power. But no,instead of the rod, there stood a golden ladder, leading straight up tothe city of the air. He was about to enter the golden gates, when theresprang at him a wondrous beast, whose like he had never seen. 'Out swordfrom the sheath,' cried the prince, springing back with a cry. And thesword leapt from the scabbard and cut off some of the monster's heads,but others grew again directly, so that the prince, pale with terror,stood where he was, calling for help, and put his sword back in thesheath again.The queen of the city heard the noise and looked from her window to seewhat was happening. Summoning one of her servants, she bade him go andrescue the stranger, and bring him to her. The prince thankfully obeyedher orders, and entered her presence.The moment she looked at him, the queen also felt that he was noordinary man, and she welcomed him graciously, and asked him what hadbrought him to the city. In answer the prince told all his story, andhow he had travelled long and far in search of the Land of Immortality.'You have found it,' said she, 'for I am queen over life and over death.Here you can dwell among the immortals.'A thousand years had passed since the prince first entered the city,but they had flown so fast that the time seemed no more than six months.There had not been one instant of the thousand years that the prince wasnot happy till one night when he dreamed of his father and mother. Thenthe longing for his home came upon him with a rush, and in the morninghe told the Queen of the Immortals that he must go and see his fatherand mother once more. The queen stared at him with amazement, and cried:'Why, prince, are you out of your senses? It is more than eight hundredyears since your father and mother died! There will not even be theirdust remaining.''I must go all the same,' said he.'Well, do not be in a hurry,' continued the queen, understanding thathe would not be prevented. 'Wait till I make some preparations for yourjourney.' So she unlocked her great treasure chest, and took out twobeautiful flasks, one of gold and one of silver, which she hung roundhis neck. Then she showed him a little trap door in one corner of theroom, and said: 'Fill the silver flask with this water, which is belowthe trap door. It is enchanted, and whoever you sprinkle with the waterwill become a dead man at once, even if he had lived a thousand years.The golden flask you must fill with the water here,' she added, pointingto a well in another corner. 'It springs from the rock of eternity. youhave only to sprinkle a few drops on a body and it will come to lifeagain, if it had been a thousand years dead.'The prince thanked the queen for her gifts, and, bidding her farewell,went on his journey.He soon arrived in the town where the mist veiled queen reigned in herpalace, but the whole city had changed, and he could scarcely find hisway through the streets. In the palace itself all was still, and hewandered through the rooms without meeting anyone to stop him. Atlast he entered the queen's own chamber, and there she lay, with herembroidery still in her hands, fast asleep. He pulled at her dress, butshe did not waken. Then a dreadful idea came over him, and he ran tothe chamber where the needles had been kept, but it was quite empty. Thequeen had broken the last over the work she held in her hand, and withit the spell was broken too, and she lay dead.Quick as thought the prince pulled out the golden flask, and sprinkledsome drops of the water over the queen. In a moment she moved gently,and raising her head, opened her eyes.'Oh, my dear friend, I am so glad you wakened me. I must have slept along while!''You would have slept till eternity,' answered the prince, 'if I had notbeen here to waken you.'At these words the queen remembered about the needles. She knew now thatshe had been dead, and that the prince had restored her to life. Shegave him thanks from her heart for what he had done, and vowed she wouldrepay him if she ever got a chance.The prince took his leave, and set out for the country of thebald headed king. As he drew near the place he saw that the wholemountain had been dug away, and that the king was lying dead on theground, his spade and bucket beside him. But as soon as the water fromthe golden flask touched him he yawned and stretched himself, and slowlyrose to his feet. 'Oh, my dear friend, I am so glad to see you,' criedhe, 'I must have slept a long while!''You would have slept till eternity if I had not been here to wakenyou,' answered the prince. And the king remembered the mountain, and thespell, and vowed to repay the service if he ever had a chance.Further along the road which led to his old home the prince found thegreat tree torn up by its roots, and the king of the eagles sitting deadon the ground, with his wings outspread as if for flight. A flutter ranthrough the feathers as the drops of water fell on them, and the eaglelifted his beak from the ground and said: 'Oh, how long I must haveslept! How can I thank you for having awakened me, my dear, goodfriend!''You would have slept till eternity if I had not been here to wakenyou'. answered the prince. Then the king remembered about the tree, andknew that he had been dead, and promised, if ever he had the chance, torepay what the prince had done for him.At last he reached the capital of his father's kingdom, but on reachingthe place where the royal palace had stood, instead of the marblegalleries where he used to play, there lay a great sulphur lake, itsblue flames darting into the air. How was he to find his father andmother, and bring them back to life, if they were lying at the bottomof that horrible water? He turned away sadly and wandered back intothe streets, hardly knowing where he was going. when a voice behind himcried: 'Stop, prince, I have caught you at last! It is a thousand yearssince I first began to seek you.' And there beside him stood the old,white bearded, figure of Death. Swiftly he drew the ring from hisfinger, and the king of the eagles, the bald headed king, and themist veiled queen, hastened to his rescue. In an instant they had seizedupon Death and held him tight, till the prince should have time to reachthe Land of Immortality. But they did not know how quickly Death couldfly, and the prince had only one foot across the border, when he feltthe other grasped from behind, and the voice of Death calling: 'Halt!now you are mine.'The Queen of the Immortals was watching from her window, and cried toDeath that he had no power in her kingdom, and that he must seek hisprey elsewhere.'Quite true,' answered Death. 'but his foot is in my kingdom, and thatbelongs to me!''At any rate half of him is mine,' replied the Queen, 'and what good canthe other half do you? Half a man is no use, either to you or to me! Butthis once I will allow you to cross into my kingdom, and we will decideby a wager whose he is.'And so it was settled. Death stepped across the narrow line thatsurrounds the Land of Immortality, and the queen proposed the wagerwhich was to decide the prince's fate. 'I will throw him up into thesky,' she said, 'right to the back of the morning star, and if he fallsdown into this city, then he is mine. But if he should fall outside thewalls, he shall belong to you.'In the middle of the city was a great open square, and here the queenwished the wager to take place. When all was ready, she put her footunder the foot of the prince and swung him into the air. Up, up, hewent, high amongst the stars, and no man's eyes could follow him. Hadshe thrown him up straight? the queen wondered anxiously, for, if not,he would fall outside the walls, and she would lose him for ever. Themoments seemed long while she and Death stood gazing up into the air,waiting to know whose prize the prince would be. Suddenly they bothcaught sight of a tiny speck no bigger than a wasp, right up in theblue. Was he coming straight? No! Yes! But as he was nearing the city,a light wind sprang up, and swayed him in the direction of the wall.Another second and he would have fallen half over it, when the queensprang forward, seized him in her arms, and flung him into the castle.Then she commanded her servants to cast Death out of the city, whichthey did, with such hard blows that he never dared to show his faceagain in the Land of Immortality.