There was a certain king known by the name of Huntsman, on account of hisexpertness in the chase. One day when returning from the forest where hehad been hunting he found a serpent and a lizard fighting on the pathalong which he was moving. As they were blocking the way he ordered themto stand aside and allow him to pass, but they gave no heed to what hesaid. King Huntsman then began to beat them with his staff. He killed thelizard, but the serpent fled, and so escaped.The serpent then went to Monsha, the king of the serpents, and complainedof the treatment the lizard and himself had received at the hands of kingHuntsman. The next day king Monsha went and met king Huntsman on his wayhome from the forest, and blocked his way so that he could not pass. KingHuntsman being angry said, "Clear the way, and allow me to pass, or else Ishall send an arrow into you. Why do you block my way?"King Monsha replied, "Why did you assault the lizard and the serpent, withintent to kill them both?"King Huntsman answered, "I ordered them to get out of my way, but theywould not, I therefore assaulted them, and killed one. The other savedhimself by flight."King Monsha hearing this explanation said, "Very good, the fault wastheirs, not yours."King Huntsman then petitioned the king of the serpents to bestow upon himthe gift of understanding the language of animals and insects. King Monshaacceded to his request, and gave him the gift he desired. A few days afterthis event king Huntsman went to the forest, and after hunting all dayreturned home in the evening. Having washed his hands and feet, he satdown to his meal of boiled rice. When the rice was being served to theking a few grains fell on the ground, and a fly and an ant began todispute as to who should carry them away.The fly said, "I will take them to my children."The ant replied, "No, I will take them to mine."Hearing the two talk thus, the king was amused, and began to smile.The queen, who was standing by, said to him, "Tell me what has made youlaugh."On being thus addressed the king became greatly confused, for at the timethe gift of understanding the language of animals and insects was bestowedupon him, king Monsha had forbidden him to make it known to anyone. He hadsaid, "If you tell this to any one, I shall eat you."Remembering this the king feared to answer the question put to him by thequeen. He tried to deceive her by saying, "I did not laugh, you must havebeen mistaken."She would not, however, be thus put off, so the king was obliged to tellher that if he answered her question his life would be forfeited.The queen was inexorable, and said, "Whether you forfeit your life or not,you must tell me."The king then said, "Well, if it must be so, let us make ready to go tothe bank of the Ganges. There I shall tell you, and when I have done soyou must push me into the river, and then return home."The king armed himself, and the two set out for the river. When they hadreached it, they sat down to rest under the shade of a tree A flock ofgoats was grazing near to where they were seated, and the king's attentionwas arrested by a conversation which was being carried on between an oldshe  goat and a young he goat.The former addressed the latter thus, "There is an island in the middle ofthe Ganges, and on that island there is a large quantity of good sweetgrass. Get the grass for me, and I shall give you my daughter inmarriage."The he goat was not thus to be imposed upon. He angrily addressed hisfemale friend as follows, "Do not think to make me like this foolish king,who vainly tries to please a woman. He has come here to lose his own lifeat the bidding of one. You tell me to go and bring you grass out of such aflood as this. I am no such fool. I do not care to die yet. There are manymore quite as good as your daughter."The king understood what passed between them, and admitted to himself thetruth of what the he goat had said. After considering a short time hearose, and having made a rude sacrificial altar, said to the queen, "Kneeldown, and do me obeisance, and I shall tell you what made me laugh."She knelt down, and the king struck off her head and burnt her body uponthe altar. Returning home he performed her funeral ceremonies, after whichhe married another wife. He reigned prosperously for many years, anddecided all disputes that were brought before him by animals or insects.