In a big forest in the north of America lived a quantity of wildanimals of all sorts. They were always very polite when they met. but,in spite of that, they kept a close watch one upon the other, as eachwas afraid of being killed and eaten by somebody else. But theirmanners were so good that no one would ever had guessed that.One day a smart young wolf went out to hunt, promising his grandfatherand grandmother that he would be sure to be back before bedtime. Hetrotted along quite happily through the forest till he came to afavourite place of his, just where the river runs into the sea. There,just as he had hoped, he saw the chief mink fishing in a canoe.'I want to fish too,' cried the wolf. But the mink said nothing andpretended not to hear.'I wish you would take me into your boat!' shouted the wolf, louderthan before, and he continued to beseech the mink so long that at lasthe grew tired of it, and paddled to the shore close enough for the wolfto jump in.'Sit down quietly at that end or we shall be upset,' said the mink.'and if you care about sea urchins' eggs, you will find plenty in thatbasket. But be sure you eat only the white ones, for the red oneswould kill you.'So the wolf, who was always hungry, began to eat the eggs greedily. andwhen he had finished he told the mink he thought he would have a nap.'Well, then, stretch yourself out, and rest your head on that piece ofwood,' said the mink. And the wolf did as he was bid, and was soonfast asleep. Then the mink crept up to him and stabbed him to theheart with his knife, and he died without moving. After that he landedon the beach, skinned the wolf, and taking the skin to his cottage, hehung it up before the fire to dry.Not many days later the wolf's grandmother, who, with the help of herrelations, had been searching for him everywhere, entered the cottageto buy some sea urchins' eggs, and saw the skin, which she at onceguessed to be that of her grandson.'I knew he was dead I knew it! I knew it!' she cried, weepingbitterly, till the mink told her rudely that if she wanted to make somuch noise she had better do it outside as he liked to be quiet. So,half blinded by her tears, the old woman went home the way she hadcome, and running in at the door, she flung herself down in front ofthe fire.'What are you crying for?' asked the old wolf and some friends who hadbeen spending the afternoon with him.'I shall never see my grandson any more!' answered she. 'Mink haskilled him, oh! oh!' And putting her head down, she began to weep asloudly as ever.'There! there!' said her husband, laying his paw on her shoulder. 'Becomforted. if he IS dead, we will avenge him.' And calling to theothers they proceeded to talk over the best plan. It took them a longtime to make up their minds, as one wolf proposed one thing and oneanother. but at last it was agreed that the old wolf should give agreat feast in his house, and that the mink should be invited to theparty. And in order that no time should be lost it was further agreedthat each wolf should bear the invitations to the guests that livednearest to him.Now the wolves thought they were very cunning, but the mink was morecunning still. and though he sent a message by a white hare, that wasgoing that way, saying he should be delighted to be present, hedetermined that he would take his precautions. So he went to a mousewho had often done him a good turn, and greeted her with his best bow.'I have a favour to ask of you, friend mouse,' said he, 'and if youwill grant it I will carry you on my back every night for a week to thepatch of maize right up the hill.''The favour is mine,' answered the mouse. 'Tell me what it is that Ican have the honour of doing for you.''Oh, something quite easy,' replied the mink. 'I only wantyou between to day and the next full moon to gnaw through the bowsand paddles of the wolf people, so that directly they use them theywill break. But of course you must manage it so that they noticenothing.''Of course,' answered the mouse, 'nothing is easier. but as the fullmoon is to morrow night, and there is not much time, I had better beginat once.' Then the mink thanked her, and went his way. but before hehad gone far he came back again.'Perhaps, while you are about the wolf's house seeing after the bows,it would do no harm if you were to make that knot hole in the wall alittle bigger,' said he. 'Not large enough to draw attention, ofcourse. but it might come in handy.' And with another nod he left her.The next evening the mink washed and brushed himself carefully and setout for the feast. He smiled to himself as he looked at the dustytrack, and perceived that though the marks of wolves' feet were many,not a single guest was to be seen anywhere. He knew very well whatthat meant. but he had taken his precautions and was not afraid.The house door stood open, but through a crack the mink could see thewolves crowding in the corner behind it. However, he entered boldly,and as soon as he was fairly inside the door was shut with a bang, andthe whole herd sprang at him, with their red tongues hanging out oftheir mouths. Quick as they were they were too late, for the mink wasalready through the knot hole and racing for his canoe.The knot hole was too small for the wolves, and there were so many ofthem in the hut that it was some time before they could get the dooropen. Then they seized the bows and arrows which were hanging on thewalls and, once outside, aimed at the flying mink. but as they pulledthe bows broke in their paws, so they threw them away, and bounded tothe shore, with all their speed, to the place where their canoes weredrawn up on the beach.Now, although the mink could not run as fast as the wolves, he had agood start, and was already afloat when the swiftest among them threwthemselves into the nearest canoe. They pushed off, but as they dippedthe paddles into the water, they snapped as the bows had done, and werequite useless.'I know where there are some new ones,' cried a young fellow, leapingon shore and rushing to a little cave at the back of the beach. Andthe mink's heart smote him when he heard, for he had not known of thissecret store.After a long chase the wolves managed to surround their prey, and themink, seeing it was no good resisting any more, gave himself up. Someof the elder wolves brought out some cedar bands, which they alwayscarried wound round their bodies, but the mink laughed scornfully atthe sight of them.'Why I could snap those in a moment,' said he. 'if you want to makesure that I cannot escape, better take a line of kelp and bind me withthat.''You are right,' answered the grandfather. 'your wisdom is greater thanours.' And he bade his servants gather enough kelp from the rocks tomake a line, as they had brought none with them.'While the line is being made you might as well let me have one lastdance,' remarked the mink. And the wolves replied: 'Very good, you mayhave your dance. perhaps it may amuse us as well as you.' So theybrought two canoes and placed them one beside the other. The minkstood up on his hind legs and began to dance, first in one canoe andthen in the other. and so graceful was he, that the wolves forgot theywere going to put him to death, and howled with pleasure.'Pull the canoes a little apart. they are too close for this newdance,' he said, pausing for a moment. And the wolves separated themwhile he gave a series of little springs, sometime pirouetting while hestood with one foot on the prow of both. 'Now nearer, now furtherapart,' he would cry as the dance went on. 'No! further still.' Andspringing into the air, amidst howls of applause, he came downhead foremost, and dived to the bottom. And through the wolves, whosehowls had now changed into those of rage, sought him everywhere, theynever found him, for he hid behind a rock till they were out of sight,and then made his home in another forest.