Once upon a time there was a cock and a mouse.One day the mouse said to the cock, "Friend cock, shall we go and eatsome nuts on yonder tree?""As you like."So they both went under the tree, and the mouse climbed up at once andbegan to eat. The poor cock began to fly, and flew and flew, but could notcome where the mouse was. When it saw that there was no hope of gettingthere, it said, "Friend mouse, do you know what I want you to do? Throw mea nut."The mouse went and threw one and hit the cock on the head. The poorcock, with its head broken and all covered with blood, went away to an oldwoman. "Old aunt, give me some rags to cure my head.""If you will give me two hairs, I will give you the rags."The cock went away to a dog. "Dog, give me some hairs. The hairs I willgive the old woman. The old woman will give me rags to cure my head.""If you will give me a little bread," said the dog, "I will give youthe hairs."The cock went away to a baker. "Baker, give me bread. I will give thebread to the dog. The dog will give hairs. The hairs I will carry to theold woman. The old woman will give me rags to cure my head."The baker answered, "I will not give you bread unless you give me somewood!"The cock went away to the forest. "Forest, give me some wood. The woodI will carry to the baker. The baker will give me some bread. The bread Iwill give to the dog. The dog will give me hairs. The hairs I will carryto the old woman. The old woman will give me rags to cure my head."The forest answered, "If you will bring me a little water, I will giveyou some wood."The cock went away to a fountain. "Fountain, give me water. Water Iwill carry to the forest. Forest will give wood. Wood I will carry to thebaker. Baker will give bread. Bread I will give dog. Dog will give hairs.Hairs I will give old woman. Old woman will give rags to cure myhead."The fountain gave him water. The water he carried to the forest. Theforest gave him wood. The wood he carried to the baker. The baker gave himbread. The bread he gave to the dog. The dog gave him the hairs. The hairshe carried to the old woman. the old woman gave him the rags. And the cockcured his head.