One very hot day some children were bathing in a pool, when a Hanumanmonkey snatched up the cloth which one of the girls had left on the bank,and ran up a tree with it. When the children came out of the water andwent to take up their clothes, they found one missing, and looking about,they saw the monkey in the tree with it. They begged the Hanuman to giveit back, but the monkey only said, "I will not give it unless its ownerconsents to marry me."Then they began to throw sticks and stones at him, but he climbed tothe top of the tree out of the way.Then they ran and told the parents of the girl whose cloth had beenstolen. And they called their neighbors and went with bows and arrows andthreatened to shoot the monkey if he did not give up the cloth, but hestill said that he would not, unless the girl would marry him. Then theyshot all their arrows at him, but not one of them hit him.Then the neighbors said, "This child is fated to belong to the monkey,and that is why we cannot hit him."Then the girl's father and mother began to cry and sang:Give the girl her clothHer silk cloth, monkey boy.And he answered:If she consents to marry me, I will give it.If she consents, I will put it in her hand.And as he did not listen to the father and mother, her father's youngerbrother and his wife sang the same song, but in vain. And then the girlherself begged for it, and thereupon the monkey let down one end of thecloth to her. and when she caught hold of it, he pulled her up into thetree, and there made her put on her cloth, and ran off with her on hisback.The girl was quite willing to go with him and called out as she wascarried away, "Never mind, father and mother. I am going away."The Hanuman took her to a cave in the mountains, and they lived onfruit: mangoes or jack or whatever fruit was in season. The monkey climbedthe trees and shook the fruit down. But if the girl saw by the marks ofteeth that the monkey had bitten off any fruit, instead of only shaking itdown, she would not eat it, and pretended that she had had enough, for shewould not eat the leavings of the monkey.At last the girl got tired of having only fruit to eat, and demandedrice. So the monkey took her to a bazaar, and leaving her on the outskirtsof the village under a tree, he went and stole some pots from a potter andrice and salt and turmeric and pulse and sweetmeats from other shops, andbrought them to the girl. Then she collected sticks and lit a fire andcooked a meal. And the monkey liked the cooked food, and asked her to cookfor him every day. So they stayed there several days.Then the girl asked for more clothes, and the monkey tried to stealthem too, but the shopkeepers were on the watch and drove him away.The girl soon got tired of sleeping under a tree, so they went back tothe cave, and the monkey gathered mangoes and jack fruit and told her togo and sell them in the market, and then she would be able to buy cloth.But when she had sold the fruit, she stayed in the village and tookservice with a well to do shopkeeper, and never returned to the monkey.The monkey watched for her and searched for her in vain, and returnedsorrowfully to his hill. But the girl stayed on in the village andeventually married one of the villagers.