A sexton, one day in sweeping the church, found a piece of money (itwas a fifth of a cent) and deliberated with himself as to what he wouldbuy with it. If he bought nuts or almonds, he was afraid of the mice. soat last he bought some roasted peas, and ate all but the last pea.This he took to a bakery nearby, and asked the mistress to keep it forhim. She told him to leave it on a bench, and she would take care of it.When she went to get it, she found that the cock had eaten it. The nextday the sexton came for the roast pea, and when he heard what had becomeof it, he said they must either return the roast pea or give him thecock.This they did, and the sexton, not having anyplace to keep it, took itto a miller's wife, who promised to keep it for him. Now she had a pig,which managed to kill the cock. The next day the sexton came for the cock,and on finding it dead, demanded the pig, and the woman had to give it tohim.The pig he left with a friend of his, a pastry cook, whose daughter wasto be married the next day. The woman was mean and sly, and killed the pigfor her daughter's wedding, meaning to tell the sexton that the pig hadrun away. The sexton, however, when he heard it, made a great fuss, anddeclared that she must give him back his pig or her daughter. At last shehad to give him her daughter, whom he put in a bag and carried away.He took the bag to a woman who kept a shop, and asked her to keep forhim this bag, which he said contained bran. The woman by chance keptchickens, and she thought she would take some of the sexton's bran andfeed them. When she opened the bag she found the young girl, who told herhow she came there. The woman took her out of the sack, and put in herstead a dog.The next day the sexton came for his bag, and putting it on hisshoulder, started for the seashore, intending to throw the young girl inthe sea. When he reached the shore, he opened the bag, and the furious dogflew out and bit his nose.The sexton was in great agony, and cried out, while the blood ran downhis face in torrents, "Dog, dog, give me a hair to put in my nose, andheal the bite."The dog answered, "Do you want a hair? Give me some bread."The sexton ran to a bakery, and said to the baker, "Baker, give me somebread to give the dog. The dog will give a hair. The hair I will put in mynose, and cure the bite."The baker said, "Do you want bread? Give me some wood."The sexton ran to the woodman. "Woodman, give me wood to give thebaker. The baker will give me bread. The bread I will give to the dog. Thedog will give me a hair. The hair I will put in my nose, and heal thebite."The woodman said, "Do you want wood? Give me a mattock."The sexton ran to a smith. "Smith, give me a mattock to give thewoodman. The woodman will give me wood. I will carry the wood to thebaker. The baker will give me bread. I will give the bread to the dog. Thedog will give me a hair. The hair I will put in my nose, and heal thebite."The smith said, "Do you want a mattock? Give me some coals."The sexton ran to the collier. "Collier, give me some coals to give thesmith. The smith will give me a mattock. The mattock I will give thewoodman. The woodman will give me some wood. The wood I will give thebaker. The baker will give me bread. The bread I will give the dog. Thedog will give me a hair. The hair I will put in my nose, and heal thebite.""Do you want coals? Give me a cart."The sexton ran to the wagon maker. "Wagon maker, give me a cart to givethe collier. The collier will give me some coals. The coals I will carryto the smith. The smith will give me a mattock. The mattock I will givethe woodman. The woodman will give me some wood. The wood I will give thebaker. The baker will give me bread. The bread I will give to the dog. Thedog will give me a hair. The hair I will put in my nose, and heal thebite."The wagon maker, seeing the sexton's great lamentation, is moved tocompassion, and gives him the cart. The sexton, well pleased, takes thecart and goes away to the collier. The collier gives him the coals. Thecoals he takes to the smith. The smith gives him the mattock. The mattockhe takes to the woodman. The woodman gives him wood. The wood he carriesto the baker. The baker gives him bread. The bread he carries to the dog.The dog gives him a hair. The hair he puts in his nose, and heals thebite.