Once upon a time there were two brothers. Each of them possessed tenloaves of bread. and they said, "Let us go and seek our fortune." So theyarose and went forth.When they had gone a little way they were hungry. One brother said to theother, "Come, let us eat thy bread first, then we can eat mine." And heagreed, and they took of his loaves and did eat, and they afterwards wenton their way.And they travelled for some time in this manner. At last, when these tenloaves were finished, the brother who had first spoken said, "Now, mybrother, thou canst go thy way and I shall go mine. Thou hast no loavesleft, and I will not let thee eat my bread." So saying, he left him tocontinue his journey alone.He went on and on, and came to a mill in a thick forest. He saw the millerand said, "For the love of God, let me stay here tonight."The miller answered, "Brother, it is a very terrible thing to be here atnight. as thou seest, even I go elsewhere. Presently wild beasts willassemble in the wood, and probably come here.""Have no fear for me. I shall stay here. The beasts cannot kill me,"answered the boy.The miller tried to persuade him not to endanger his life, but when hefound his arguments were of no avail he rose and went home. The boy creptinside the hopper of the mill.There appeared, from no one knows where, a big bear. he was followed by awolf, then a jackal. and they all made a great noise in the mill. Theyleaped and bounded just as if they were having a dance. He was terrified,and, trembling from fear, he lay down, quaking all over, in the hopper.At last the bear said, "Come, let each of us tell something he has seen orheard.""We shall tell our tales, but you must begin," cried his companions.The bear said, "Well, on a hill that I know dwells a mouse. This mouse hasa great heap of money, which it spreads out when the sun shines. If anyoneknew of this mouse's hole, and went there on a sunny day, when the moneyis spread out, and struck the mouse with a twig, and killed it, he wouldbecome possessed of great wealth.""That is not wonderful!" said the wolf. "I know a certain town where thereis no water, and every mouthful has to be carried a great distance, and anenormous price is paid for it! The inhabitants do not know that in thecenter of their town, under a certain stone, is beautiful, pure water.Now, if any one knew of this, and would roll away that stone, he wouldobtain great wealth.""That is nothing," said the jackal. "I know of a king who has one onlydaughter, and she has been an invalid for three years. Quite a simpleremedy would cure her: if she were bathed in a bath of beech leaves shewould be healed. You have no idea what a fortune any one would get if heonly knew this."When they had spoken thus, day began to dawn. The bear, the wolf, and thejackal went away into the wood. The boy came out of the hopper, gavethanks to God, and went to the mouse's hole, of which the bear had spoken.He arrived, and saw that the story was true. There was the mouse with themoney spread out. He stole up noiselessly, and, taking twigs in his hand,he struck the mouse until he had killed it, and then gathered up themoney. Then he went to the waterless town, rolled away the stone, andbehold! streams of water flowed forth. He received a reward for this, andset out for the kingdom of which the jackal had spoken.He arrived, and enquired of the king, "What wilt thou give me if I curethy daughter?"The king replied, "If thou canst do this I will give thee my daughter towife."The youth prepared the remedy, made the princess bathe in it, and she wascured. The king rejoiced greatly, gave him the maiden in marriage, andappointed him heir to the kingdom.This story reached the ears of the youth's brother. He went on and on, andit came to pass that he found his brother. He asked him, "How and by whatcunning has this happened?"The fortunate youth told him all in detail."I also shall go and stay at that mill a night or two."His brother used many entreaties to dissuade him, and when he would notlisten, said, "Well, go if thou wilt, but I warn thee again it is verydangerous."However, he would not be persuaded, and went away. He crept into thehopper, and was there all night.From some place or other arrived the former guests   the bear, the wolf,and the jackal.The bear said, "That day when I told you my story the mouse was killed,and the money all taken away."The wolf said, "And the stone was rolled away in the waterless town ofwhich I spoke.""And the king's daughter was cured," added the jackal."Then perhaps someone was listening when we talked here," said the bear."Perhaps someone is here now," shrieked his companions."Then let us go and look. certainly no one shall listen again," said thethree. and they looked in all the corners. They sought and soughteverywhere. At last the bear looked into the hopper, and saw the tremblingboy. He dragged him out and tore him to pieces.