Once upon a time there lived a man, whose wife had died. and a woman,also, who had lost her husband: and this man and this woman had each adaughter. These two maidens were friendly with each other, and used towalk together, and one day they came by the widow's house. Then thewidow said to the man's daughter, "Do you hear, tell your father I wishto marry him, and you shall every morning wash in milk and drink wine,but my daughter shall wash in water and drink water." So the girl wenthome and told her father what the woman had said, and he replied, "Whatshall I do? Marriage is a comfort, but it is also a torment." At last,as he could come to no conclusion, he drew off his boot and said: "Takethis boot, which has a hole in the sole, and go with it out of doors andhang it on the great nail and then pour water into it. If it holds thewater, I will again take a wife. but if it runs through, I will not haveher." The girl did as he bid her, but the water drew the hole togetherand the boot became full to overflowing. So she told her father how ithad happened, and he, getting up, saw it was quite true. and going tothe widow he settled the matter, and the wedding was celebrated.The next morning, when the two girls arose, milk to wash in and wine todrink were set for the man's daughter, but only water, both for washingand drinking, for the woman's daughter. The second morning, water forwashing and drinking stood before both the man's daughter and thewoman's. and on the third morning, water to wash in and water to drinkwere set before the man's daughter, and milk to wash in and wine todrink before the woman's daughter, and so it continued.Soon the woman conceived a deadly hatred for her step daughter, and knewnot how to behave badly enough to her from day to day. She was envious,too, because her step daughter was beautiful and lovely, and her owndaughter was ugly and hateful.Once, in the winter time, when the river was frozen as hard as a stone,and hill and valley were covered with snow, the woman made a cloak ofpaper, and called the maiden to her and said, "Put on this cloak, and goaway into the wood to fetch me a little basketful of strawberries, for Ihave a wish for some.""Mercy on us!" said the maiden, "in winter there are no strawberriesgrowing. the ground is frozen, and the snow, too, has coveredeverything. And why must I go in that paper cloak? It is so cold out ofdoors that it freezes one's breath even, and if the wind does not blowoff this cloak, the thorns will tear it from my body.""Will you dare to contradict me?" said the step mother. "Make haste off,and let me not see you again until you have found me a basket ofstrawberries." Then she gave her a small piece of dry bread, saying, "Onthat you must subsist the whole day." But she thought out of doors shewill be frozen and starved, so that my eyes will never see her again!So the girl did as she was told, and put on the paper cloak, and wentaway with the basket. Far and near there was nothing but snow, and not agreen blade was to be seen. When she came to the forest she discovered alittle cottage, out of which three little Dwarfs were peeping. The girlwished them good morning, and knocked gently at the door. They calledher in, and entering the room, she sat down on a bench by the fire towarm herself, and eat her breakfast. The Dwarfs called out, "Give ussome of it!" "Willingly," she replied, and, dividing her bread in two,she gave them half. They asked, "What do you here in the forest, in thewinter time, in this thin cloak?""Ah!" she answered, "I must, seek a basketful of strawberries, and Idare not return home until I can take them with me." When she had eatenher bread, they gave her a broom, saying, "Sweep away the snow with thisfrom the back door." But when she was gone out of doors the three Dwarfssaid one to another, "What shall we give her, because she is so gentleand good, and has shared her bread with us?" Then said the first, "Igrant to her that she shall become more beautiful every day." The secondsaid, "I grant that a piece of gold shall fall out of her mouth forevery word she speaks." The third said, "I grant that a King shall comeand make her his bride."Meanwhile, the girl had done as the Dwarf had bidden her, and had sweptaway the snow from behind the house. And what do you think she foundthere? Actually, ripe strawberries! which came quite red and sweet upunder the snow. So filling her basket in great glee, she thanked thelittle men and gave them each her hand, and then ran home to take herstep mother what she wished for. As she went in and said "Good evening,"a piece of gold fell from her mouth. Thereupon she related what hadhappened to her in the forest. but at every word she spoke a piece ofgold fell, so that the whole floor was covered."Just see her arrogance," said the step sister, "to throw away money inthat way!" but in her heart she was jealous, and wished to go into theforest, too, to seek strawberries. Her mother said, "No, my deardaughter. it is too cold, you will be frozen!" but as her girl let herhave no peace, she at last consented, and made her a beautiful fur cloakto put on. she also gave her buttered bread and cooked meat to eat onher way.The girl went into the forest and came straight to the little cottage.The three Dwarfs were peeping out again, but she did not greet them.and, stumbling on without looking at them, or speaking, she entered theroom, and, seating herself by the fire, began to eat the bread andbutter and meat. "Give us some of that," exclaimed the Dwarfs. but sheanswered, "I have not got enough for myself, so how can I give anyaway?" When she had finished they said, "You have a broom there, go andsweep the back door clean." "Oh, sweep it yourself," she replied. "I amnot your servant." When she saw that they would not give her anythingshe went out at the door, and the three Dwarfs said to each other, "Whatshall we give her? She is so ill behaved, and has such a bad and enviousdisposition, that nobody can wish well to her." The first said, "I grantthat she becomes more ugly every day." The second said, "I grant that atevery word she speaks a toad shall spring out of her mouth." The thirdsaid, "I grant that she shall die a miserable death." Meanwhile the girlhad been looking for strawberries out of doors, but as she could findnone she went home very peevish. When she opened her mouth to tell hermother what had happened to her in the forest, a toad jumped out of hermouth at each word, so that every one fled away from her in horror.The step mother was now still more vexed, and was always thinking howshe could do the most harm to her husband's daughter, who every daybecame more beautiful. At last she took a kettle, set it on the fire,and boiled a net therein. When it was sodden she hung it on the shoulderof the poor girl, and gave her an axe, that she might go upon the frozenpond and cut a hole in the ice to drag the net. She obeyed, and wentaway and cut an ice hole. and while she was cutting, an elegant carriagecame by, in which the King sat. The carriage stopped, and the Kingasked, "My child, who are you? and what do you here?" "I am a poor girl,and am dragging a net," said she. Then the King pitied her, and saw howbeautiful she was, and said, "Will you go with me?" "Yes, indeed, withall my heart," she replied, for she was glad to get out of the sight ofher mother and sister.So she was handed into the carriage, and driven away with the King. andas soon as they arrived at his castle the wedding was celebrated withgreat splendor, as the Dwarfs had granted to the maiden. After a yearthe young Queen bore a son. and when the step mother heard of her greatgood fortune, she came to the castle with her daughter, and behaved asif she had come on a visit. But one day when the King had gone out, andno one was present, this bad woman seized the Queen by the head, and herdaughter caught hold of her feet, and raising her out of bed, they threwher out of the window into the river which ran past. Then, laying herugly daughter in the bed, the old woman covered her up, even over herhead. and when the King came back he wished to speak to his wife, butthe old woman exclaimed, "Softly! softly! do not go near her. she islying in a beautiful sleep, and must be kept quiet to day." The King,not thinking of an evil design, came again the next morning the firstthing. and when he spoke to his wife, and she answered, a toad sprangout of her mouth at every word, as a piece of gold had done before. Sohe asked what had happened, and the old woman said, "That is produced byher weakness, she will soon lose it again."But in the night the kitchen boy saw a Duck swimming through the brook,and the Duck asked:"King, King, what are you doing?Are you sleeping, or are you waking?"And as he gave no answer, the Duck said:"What are my guests a doing?"Then the boy answered:"They all sleep sound."And she asked him:"How fares my child?"And he replied:"In his cradle he sleeps."Then she came up in the form of the Queen to the cradle, and gave thechild drink, shook up his bed, and covered him up, and then swam awayagain as a duck through the brook. The second night she came again. andon the third she said to the kitchen boy, "Go and tell the King to takehis sword, and swing it thrice over me, on the threshold." Then the boyran and told the King, who came with his sword, and swung it thrice overthe Duck. and at the third time his bride stood before him, bright,living, and healthful, as she had been before.Now the King was in great happiness, but he hid the Queen in a chamberuntil the Sunday when the child was to be christened. and when all wasfinished he asked, "What ought to be done to one who takes another outof a bed and throws her into the river?" "Nothing could be more proper,"said the old woman, "than to put such a one into a cask, stuck roundwith nails, and to roll it down the hill into the water." Then the Kingsaid, "You have spoken your own sentence". and ordering a cask to befetched, he caused the old woman and her daughter to be put into it, andthe bottom nailed up. Then the cask was rolled down the hill until itfell into the water.