Once upon a time a certain woman had been on a visit to a distantvillage. As she was going home she reached the bank of a flooded river.She tried to wade across but soon found that the water was too deep andthe current too strong. She looked about but could see no signs of a boator any means of crossing. It began to grow dark, and the woman was ingreat distress at the thought that she would not be able to reach herhome.While she thus stood in doubt, suddenly out of the river came a greatsnake and said to her, "Woman, what will you give me if I ferry you acrossthe river?"She answered, "Snake, I have nothing to give you."The snake said, "I cannot take you across the river unless you promiseto give me something."Now the woman at the time was pregnant and not knowing what else to do,she promised that when her child was born, if it were a daughter she wouldmarry her to the river snake, and if it were a son that, when the boy grewup he should become the juri or "name friend" of the snake. Thewoman swore to do this with an oath, and the snake took her on his backand bore her safely across the flooded stream.The woman safely reached her home, and in a little time a daughter wasborn to her.Years passed away, and the woman forgot all about the snake and heroath. One day she went to the river to fetch water, and the snake came outof the stream and said to her, "Woman, where is the wife whom you promisedto me?"The woman then remembered her oath, and going back to her house shereturned to the river with her daughter. When the girl came to the bank ofthe river, the snake seized her and drew her underneath the water, and hermother saw her no more. The girl lived with the snake at the bottom of theriver, and in the course of years bore him four snake sons.Afterwards the girl remembered her home, and one day she went to visither mother. Her brothers when they came home were astonished to see herand said, "Sister, we thought that you were drowned in the river."She answered, "No, I was not drowned, but I am married and havechildren."The brothers said, "Where is this brother in law of ours?"Their sister said, "Go to the river and call him."So they went to the river and called, and the snake came up out of thewater and went to their house with them. Then they welcomed the snake andgave him great quantities of rice beer to drink. After drinking this thesnake became sleepy and coiling himself in great coils went to sleep. Thenthe brothers who did not like a snake brother in law took their axes andcut off the head of the snake while he slept, and afterwards their sisterlived in their house.