In Terra Stolida, in a place called Vallona, it is reported there dwelled a rich farmer, whose substance lay most in great cattle. and at certain times he drove them into other countries to pasture, where he abode with them many months.His wife, that remained at home, was good and square, and plumb of body, her brawn as hard as a board, and that had her face before her as other women. so that a great rich man also of that country cast his eyes upon her, and entertained her in that time of vacation. And she that delighted not to be kept at the rack and manger, suffered her receipt to run at large, to fare more daintily. In so much as at the last (sinning in gluttony) her breasts grew big, and her belly rose, so when time came, she brought forth a goodly babe, which she carefully put forth to nurse and thus it grew. and in fine as her own in deed she brought it home and fostered it.Her husband being come home that had been long absent, glad to see his wife and she (in seeming also) no less glad of his coming, (but Lord, what feast and joy in outward show between them) they sweetly kissed, and with loving words embraced each other."Oh my Conye, welcome," quoth she."Oh my dear Musse," said he, "gramercy to thee."All wedlock ceremonies duly accomplished. her husband, casting his eyes about and seeing this fair little boy running about the house, "Musse," quoth he, "I pray thee whence is this little knave?""What knowest thou not, Conye," said she? "It is mine." (And this she told him as she that could cunningly handle him in his kind), and so followed on, preventing his tale: "Doest thou not remember that three years ago there fell a great snow. (Jesus, how cold it was), and at the same time I remember the ravens and crows fell down stark dead in the streets, and the little fish died in the wells. Oh what a cold it was, and I took it, in deed (God knoweth) with throwing of snowballs, the young maids of the country and I together. and I cannot tell how, I handled so many, but well I know, I came home fair with child, and I am sure it was no other but the snow, and that is seen by the boy, that is as fair and white as snow itself, and therefore I called his name White. And, because I know well enough ye men are of such metal, that even strait ye think all the evil of us poor women that can be, and for that I would not put any jealousy or toy in thy head, I sent him out of the doors to nurse, thinking afterwards at leisure, when thou hadst known thy good wife, to send for him, and so to have told thee even plainly from point to point how the matter went, and how I came by this good, pretty, sweet, fair, well favored boy."Her husband, though indeed he was but an ass and a dreamish fool, was not moved a whit at her ill favored tale, nor once hung down his head for the matter, and made as though he believed her. but he knew strait the knavery of the foolish invention of his wife.Howbeit what for the love he bare her (because she was worth the looking on ywis (for certain)), and for that he was but a rude fellow to behold, and thought himself scant worthy of her, and that he had married her, pining away for her sake. he thought it better to carry such things in his breast than in his head, and the rather peradventure because he doubted false measure, fearing his partner's ill will that farmed his ground at halves with him. in fine, he was contented to bite it in for the time, determining not to be at charges with other men's children.So one day spying time and place, he carried out of the doors with him this little boy White. and such was his walk that the boy was never more heard of, nor seen after that. The woman looked and looked again to see her son return with her husband.But seeing her husband come home without him, "Come," sayth she to him, "I pray thee, what hast thou done with my boy?"Her husband that had bought his wit so dear, answered her: "A sweet Musse, the other day unadvisedly (I confess it) I carried him abroad with me, and we walked a great while in the sun together, and thou knowest how hot it was two days ago (alack that I should tell it thee). the heat of the sun hath quite dissolved him. And then I found thy words true which before I hardly believed. Alas, poor wretch, he suddenly turned all into water, that woe is me."His Musse, hearing this, in a rage flung her away, and left Conye all alone, so he never after saw her.