Once upon a time there was a great tiger who lived in a forest. and allthe other animals that lived in the forest treatedhim as their Raja, down to the very birds. They all felt safe under hisprotection, because he was so much feared that nomen dared hunt in that forest. One day it happened that this Raja tigerkilled a man and made such a enormous meal onthe flesh, that he got very bad indigestion. The pain grew worse andworse, till he felt sure that his last hour was come.In his agony he sent for a hyena and offered to make him his dewan(chief minister), if only he would call all theother animals of the forest to come and pay a farewell visit to theirlord. The hyena readily agreed but thought it would bebetter to send another messenger, while he stayed by the tiger to see thatall the animals duly presented themselves. Justthen a crow flew overhead. so they called him and deputed him to summonall the animals.The crow flew off and in a short time all the animals assembled before thetiger and paid their respects to him andexpressed wishes for his speedy recovery   all except the jackals. Theyhad been summoned along with the others. butsomehow they paid no attention and only remembered about it in theafternoon. Then they were very frightened as towhat would be the consequence of their remissness. but one chief jackalstood up and told them not to fear, as he wouldcontrive a way of getting the better of the hyena. There was nothing elseto be done, so they had to put what trust theycould in their chief and follow him to the tiger.On his way the chief jackal picked up a few roots, and took them with him.When they reached the place where thesuffering monarch lay, the hyena at once began to abuse them for beinglate, and the tiger also angrily asked why theyhad not come before. then the chief jackal began humbly "O Maharaja, wewere duly summoned. your messenger is notto blame. but we reflected that it was useless merely to go and look atyou when you were so ill: that could do you no good.so we bestirred ourselves to try and find some medicine that would cureyou. We have searched the length and breadth ofthe jungle and have found all that is necessary, except one thing and thatwe have failed to find.""Tell me what it is," said the hyena, "and I will at once dispatch allthese animals to look for it and it will surely be found.""Yes," echoed the tiger, "what is it?""Maharaja," said the jackal, "when you take these medicines, you must liedown on the fresh skin of a hyena, which hasbeen flayed alive. but the only hyena we can find in the forest is yourdewan ""The world can well bear the loss of one hyena," said the tiger: "take himand skin him."At these words all the animals set upon the hyena and flayed him alive.and the tiger lay down on the skin and took themedicines brought by the jackal. and as he was not seriously ill, his painsoon began to pass away."That is a lesson to the hyena not to scold us and get us into trouble,"said the jackal, as he went home.