A STORY OF OLD JAPAN.Long years ago in old Japan there lived in the Province of Echigo, avery remote part of Japan even in these days, a man and his wife. Whenthis story begins they had been married for some years and were blessedwith one little daughter. She was the joy and pride of both theirlives, and in her they stored an endless source of happiness for theirold age.What golden letter days in their memory were these that had marked hergrowing up from babyhood. the visit to the temple when she was justthirty days old, her proud mother carrying her, robed in ceremonialkimono, to be put under the patronage of the family's household god.then her first dolls festival, when her parents gave her a set ofdolls and their miniature belongings, to be added to as year succeededyear. and perhaps the most important occasion of all, on her thirdbirthday, when her first OBI (broad brocade sash) of scarlet and goldwas tied round her small waist, a sign that she had crossed thethreshold of girlhood and left infancy behind. Now that she was sevenyears of age, and had learned to talk and to wait upon her parents inthose several little ways so dear to the hearts of fond parents, theircup of happiness seemed full. There could not be found in the whole ofthe Island Empire a happier little family.One day there was much excitement in the home, for the father had beensuddenly summoned to the capital on business. In these days of railwaysand jinrickshas and other rapid modes of traveling, it is difficult torealize what such a journey as that from Matsuyama to Kyoto meant. Theroads were rough and bad, and ordinary people had to walk every step ofthe way, whether the distance were one hundred or several hundredmiles. Indeed, in those days it was as great an undertaking to go up tothe capital as it is for a Japanese to make a voyage to Europe now.So the wife was very anxious while she helped her husband get ready forthe long journey, knowing what an arduous task lay before him. Vainlyshe wished that she could accompany him, but the distance was too greatfor the mother and child to go, and besides that, it was the wife'sduty to take care of the home.All was ready at last, and the husband stood in the porch with hislittle family round him."Do not be anxious, I will come back soon," said the man. "While I amaway take care of everything, and especially of our little daughter.""Yes, we shall be all right but you you must take care of yourselfand delay not a day in coming back to us," said the wife, while thetears fell like rain from her eyes.The little girl was the only one to smile, for she was ignorant of thesorrow of parting, and did not know that going to the capital was atall different from walking to the next village, which her father didvery often. She ran to his side, and caught hold of his long sleeve tokeep him a moment."Father, I will be very good while I am waiting for you to come back,so please bring me a present."As the father turned to take a last look at his weeping wife andsmiling, eager child, he felt as if some one were pulling him back bythe hair, so hard was it for him to leave them behind, for they hadnever been separated before. But he knew that he must go, for the callwas imperative. With a great effort he ceased to think, and resolutelyturning away he went quickly down the little garden and out through thegate. His wife, catching up the child in her arms, ran as far as thegate, and watched him as he went down the road between the pines tillhe was lost in the haze of the distance and all she could see was hisquaint peaked hat, and at last that vanished too."Now father has gone, you and I must take care of everything till hecomes back," said the mother, as she made her way back to the house."Yes, I will be very good," said the child, nodding her head, "and whenfather comes home please tell him how good I have been, and thenperhaps he will give me a present.""Father is sure to bring you something that you want very much. I know,for I asked him to bring you a doll. You must think of father everyday, and pray for a safe journey till he comes back.""O, yes, when he comes home again how happy I shall be," said thechild, clapping her hands, and her face growing bright with joy at theglad thought. It seemed to the mother as she looked at the child's facethat her love for her grew deeper and deeper.Then she set to work to make the winter clothes for the three of them.She set up her simple wooden spinning wheel and spun the thread beforeshe began to weave the stuffs. In the intervals of her work shedirected the little girl's games and taught her to read the old storiesof her country. Thus did the wife find consolation in work during thelonely days of her husband's absence. While the time was thus slippingquickly by in the quiet home, the husband finished his business andreturned.It would have been difficult for any one who did not know the man wellto recognize him. He had traveled day after day, exposed to allweathers, for about a month altogether, and was sunburnt to bronze, buthis fond wife and child knew him at a glance, and flew to meet him fromeither side, each catching hold of one of his sleeves in their eagergreeting. Both the man and his wife rejoiced to find each other well.It seemed a very long time to all till the mother and childhelping his straw sandals were untied, his large umbrella hat takenoff, and he was again in their midst in the old familiar sitting roomthat had been so empty while he was away.As soon as they had sat down on the white mats, the father opened abamboo basket that he had brought in with him, and took out a beautifuldoll and a lacquer box full of cakes."Here," he said to the little girl, "is a present for you. It is aprize for taking care of mother and the house so well while I was away.""Thank you," said the child, as she bowed her head to the ground, andthen put out her hand just like a little maple leaf with its eagerwide spread fingers to take the doll and the box, both of which, comingfrom the capital, were prettier than anything she had ever seen. Nowords can tell how delighted the little girl was her face seemed as ifit would melt with joy, and she had no eyes and no thought for anythingelse.Again the husband dived into the basket, and brought out this time asquare wooden box, carefully tied up with red and white string, andhanding it to his wife, said:"And this is for you."The wife took the box, and opening it carefully took out a metal diskwith a handle attached. One side was bright and shining like a crystal,and the other was covered with raised figures of pine trees and storks,which had been carved out of its smooth surface in lifelike reality.Never had she seen such a thing in her life, for she had been born andbred in the rural province of Echigo. She gazed into the shining disk,and looking up with surprise and wonder pictured on her face, she said:"I see somebody looking at me in this round thing! What is it that youhave given me?"The husband laughed and said:"Why, it is your own face that you see. What I have brought you iscalled a mirror, and whoever looks into its clear surface can see theirown form reflected there. Although there are none to be found in thisout of the way place, yet they have been in use in the capital from themost ancient times. There the mirror is considered a very necessaryrequisite for a woman to possess. There is an old proverb that 'As thesword is the soul of a samurai, so is the mirror the soul of a woman,'and according to popular tradition, a woman's mirror is an index to herown heart if she keeps it bright and clear, so is her heart pure andgood. It is also one of the treasures that form the insignia of theEmperor. So you must lay great store by your mirror, and use itcarefully."The wife listened to all her husband told her, and was pleased atlearning so much that was new to her. She was still more pleased at theprecious gift his token of remembrance while he had been away."If the mirror represents my soul, I shall certainly treasure it as avaluable possession, and never will I use it carelessly." Saying so,she lifted it as high as her forehead, in grateful acknowledgment ofthe gift, and then shut it up in its box and put it away.The wife saw that her husband was very tired, and set about serving theevening meal and making everything as comfortable as she could for him.It seemed to the little family as if they had not known what truehappiness was before, so glad were they to be together again, and thisevening the father had much to tell of his journey and of all he hadseen at the great capital.Time passed away in the peaceful home, and the parents saw theirfondest hopes realized as their daughter grew from childhood into abeautiful girl of sixteen. As a gem of priceless value is held in itsproud owner's hand, so had they reared her with unceasing love andcare: and now their pains were more than doubly rewarded. What acomfort she was to her mother as she went about the house taking herpart in the housekeeping, and how proud her father was of her, for shedaily reminded him of her mother when he had first married her.But, alas! in this world nothing lasts forever. Even the moon is notalways perfect in shape, but loses its roundness with time, and flowersbloom and then fade. So at last the happiness of this family was brokenup by a great sorrow. The good and gentle wife and mother was one daytaken ill.In the first days of her illness the father and daughter thought thatit was only a cold, and were not particularly anxious. But the dayswent by and still the mother did not get better. she only grew worse,and the doctor was puzzled, for in spite of all he did the poor womangrew weaker day by day. The father and daughter were stricken withgrief, and day or night the girl never left her mother's side. But inspite of all their efforts the woman's life was not to be saved.One day as the girl sat near her mother's bed, trying to hide with acheery smile the gnawing trouble at her heart, the mother rousedherself and taking her daughter's hand, gazed earnestly and lovinglyinto her eyes. Her breath was labored and she spoke with difficulty:"My daughter. I am sure that nothing can save me now. When I am dead,promise me to take care of your dear father and to try to be a good anddutiful woman.""Oh, mother," said the girl as the tears rushed to her eyes, "you mustnot say such things. All you have to do is to make haste and getwell that will bring the greatest happiness to father and myself.""Yes, I know, and it is a comfort to me in my last days to know howgreatly you long for me to get better, but it is not to be. Do not lookso sorrowful, for it was so ordained in my previous state of existencethat I should die in this life just at this time. knowing this, I amquite resigned to my fate. And now I have something to give you wherebyto remember me when I am gone."Putting her hand out, she took from the side of the pillow a squarewooden box tied up with a silken cord and tassels. Undoing this verycarefully, she took out of the box the mirror that her husband hadgiven her years ago."When you were still a little child your father went up to the capitaland brought me back as a present this treasure. it is called a mirror.This I give you before I die. If, after I have ceased to be in thislife, you are lonely and long to see me sometimes, then take out thismirror and in the clear and shining surface you will always see me sowill you be able to meet with me often and tell me all your heart. andthough I shall not be able to speak, I shall understand and sympathizewith you, whatever may happen to you in the future." With these wordsthe dying woman handed the mirror to her daughter.The mind of the good mother seemed to be now at rest, and sinking backwithout another word her spirit passed quietly away that day.The bereaved father and daughter were wild with grief, and theyabandoned themselves to their bitter sorrow. They felt it to beimpossible to take leave of the loved woman who till now had filledtheir whole lives and to commit her body to the earth. But this franticburst of grief passed, and then they took possession of their ownhearts again, crushed though they were in resignation. In spite of thisthe daughter's life seemed to her desolate. Her love for her deadmother did not grow less with time, and so keen was her remembrance,that everything in daily life, even the falling of the rain and theblowing of the wind, reminded her of her mother's death and of all thatthey had loved and shared together. One day when her father was out,and she was fulfilling her household duties alone, her loneliness andsorrow seemed more than she could bear. She threw herself down in hermother's room and wept as if her heart would break. Poor child, shelonged just for one glimpse of the loved face, one sound of the voicecalling her pet name, or for one moment's forgetfulness of the achingvoid in her heart. Suddenly she sat up. Her mother's last words hadrung through her memory hitherto dulled by grief."Oh! my mother told me when she gave me the mirror as a parting gift,that whenever I looked into it I should be able to meet her to seeher. I had nearly forgotten her last words how stupid I am. I will getthe mirror now and see if it can possibly be true!"She dried her eyes quickly, and going to the cupboard took out the boxthat contained the mirror, her heart beating with expectation as shelifted the mirror out and gazed into its smooth face. Behold, hermother's words were true! In the round mirror before her she saw hermother's face. but, oh, the joyful surprise! It was not her mother thinand wasted by illness, but the young and beautiful woman as sheremembered her far back in the days of her own earliest childhood. Itseemed to the girl that the face in the mirror must soon speak, almostthat she heard the voice of her mother telling her again to grow up agood woman and a dutiful daughter, so earnestly did the eyes in themirror look back into her own."It is certainly my mother's soul that I see. She knows how miserable Iam without her and she has come to comfort me. Whenever I long to seeher she will meet me here. how grateful I ought to be!"And from this time the weight of sorrow was greatly lightened for heryoung heart. Every morning, to gather strength for the day's dutiesbefore her, and every evening, for consolation before she lay down torest, did the young girl take out the mirror and gaze at the reflectionwhich in the simplicity of her innocent heart she believed to be hermother's soul. Daily she grew in the likeness of her dead mother'scharacter, and was gentle and kind to all, and a dutiful daughter toher father.A year spent in mourning had thus passed away in the little household,when, by the advice of his relations, the man married again, and thedaughter now found herself under the authority of a step mother. It wasa trying position. but her days spent in the recollection of her ownbeloved mother, and of trying to be what that mother would wish her tobe, had made the young girl docile and patient, and she now determinedto be filial and dutiful to her father's wife, in all respects.Everything went on apparently smoothly in the family for some timeunder the new regime. there were no winds or waves of discord to rufflethe surface of every day life, and the father was content.But it is a woman's danger to be petty and mean, and step mothers areproverbial all the world over, and this one's heart was not as herfirst smiles were. As the days and weeks grew into months, thestep mother began to treat the motherless girl unkindly and to try andcome between the father and child.Sometimes she went to her husband and complained of her step daughter'sbehavior, but the father knowing that this was to be expected, took nonotice of her ill natured complaints. Instead of lessening hisaffection for his daughter, as the woman desired, her grumblings onlymade him think of her the more. The woman soon saw that he began toshow more concern for his lonely child than before. This did not pleaseher at all, and she began to turn over in her mind how she could, bysome means or other, drive her step child out of the house. So crookeddid the woman's heart become.She watched the girl carefully, and one day peeping into her room inthe early morning, she thought she discovered a grave enough sin ofwhich to accuse the child to her father. The woman herself was a littlefrightened too at what she had seen.So she went at once to her husband, and wiping away some false tearsshe said in a sad voice:"Please give me permission to leave you today."The man was completely taken by surprise at the suddenness of herrequest, and wondered whatever was the matter."Do you find it so disagreeable," he asked, "in my house, that you canstay no longer?""No! no! it has nothing to do with you even in my dreams I have neverthought that I wished to leave your side. but if I go on living here Iam in danger of losing my life, so I think it best for all concernedthat you should allow me to go home!"And the woman began to weep afresh. Her husband, distressed to see herso unhappy, and thinking that he could not have heard aright, said:"Tell me what you mean! How is your life in danger here?""I will tell you since you ask me. Your daughter dislikes me as herstep mother. For some time past she has shut herself up in her roommorning and evening, and looking in as I pass by, I am convinced thatshe has made an image of me and is trying to kill me by magic art,cursing me daily. It is not safe for me to stay here, such being thecase. indeed, indeed, I must go away, we cannot live under the sameroof any more."The husband listened to the dreadful tale, but he could not believe hisgentle daughter guilty of such an evil act. He knew that by popularsuperstition people believed that one person could cause the gradualdeath of another by making an image of the hated one and cursing itdaily. but where had his young daughter learned such knowledge? thething was impossible. Yet he remembered having noticed that hisdaughter stayed much in her room of late and kept herself away fromevery one, even when visitors came to the house. Putting this facttogether with his wife's alarm, he thought that there might besomething to account for the strange story.His heart was torn between doubting his wife and trusting his child,and he knew not what to do. He decided to go at once to his daughterand try to find out the truth. Comforting his wife and assuring herthat her fears were groundless, he glided quietly to his daughter'sroom.The girl had for a long time past been very unhappy. She had tried byamiability and obedience to show her goodwill and to mollify the newwife, and to break down that wall of prejudice and misunderstandingthat she knew generally stood between step parents and theirstep children. But she soon found that her efforts were in vain. Thestep mother never trusted her, and seemed to misinterpret all heractions, and the poor child knew very well that she often carriedunkind and untrue tales to her father. She could not help comparing herpresent unhappy condition with the time when her own mother was aliveonly a little more than a year ago so great a change in this shorttime! Morning and evening she wept over the remembrance. Whenever shecould she went to her room, and sliding the screens to, took out themirror and gazed, as she thought, at her mother's face. It was the onlycomfort that she had in these wretched days.Her father found her occupied in this way. Pushing aside the fusama, hesaw her bending over something or other very intently. Looking over hershoulder, to see who was entering her room, the girl was surprised tosee her father, for he generally sent for her when he wished to speakto her. She was also confused at being found looking at the mirror, forshe had never told any one of her mother's last promise, but had keptit as the sacred secret of her heart. So before turning to her fathershe slipped the mirror into her long sleeve. Her father noting herconfusion, and her act of hiding something, said in a severe manner:"Daughter, what are you doing here? And what is that that you havehidden in your sleeve?"The girl was frightened by her father's severity. Never had he spokento her in such a tone. Her confusion changed to apprehension, her colorfrom scarlet to white. She sat dumb and shamefaced, unable to reply.Appearances were certainly against her. the young girl looked guilty,and the father thinking that perhaps after all what his wife had toldhim was true, spoke angrily:"Then, is it really true that you are daily cursing your step motherand praying for her death? Have you forgotten what I told you, thatalthough she is your step mother you must be obedient and loyal to her?What evil spirit has taken possession of your heart that you should beso wicked? You have certainly changed, my daughter! What has made youso disobedient and unfaithful?"And the father's eyes filled with sudden tears to think that he shouldhave to upbraid his daughter in this way.She on her part did not know what he meant, for she had never heard ofthe superstition that by praying over an image it is possible to causethe death of a hated person. But she saw that she must speak and clearherself somehow. She loved her father dearly, and could not bear theidea of his anger. She put out her hand on his knee deprecatingly:"Father! father! do not say such dreadful things to me. I am still yourobedient child. Indeed, I am. However stupid I may be, I should neverbe able to curse any one who belonged to you, much less pray for thedeath of one you love. Surely some one has been telling you lies, andyou are dazed, and you know not what you say or some evil spirit hastaken possession of YOUR heart. As for me I do not know no, not somuch as a dew drop, of the evil thing of which you accuse me."But the father remembered that she had hidden something away when hefirst entered the room, and even this earnest protest did not satisfyhim. He wished to clear up his doubts once for all."Then why are you always alone in your room these days? And tell mewhat is that that you have hidden in your sleeve show it to me atonce."Then the daughter, though shy of confessing how she had cherished hermother's memory, saw that she must tell her father all in order toclear herself. So she slipped the mirror out from her long sleeve andlaid it before him."This," she said, "is what you saw me looking at just now.""Why," he said in great surprise, "this is the mirror that I brought asa gift to your mother when I went up to the capital many years ago! Andso you have kept it all this time? Now, why do you spend so much ofyour time before this mirror?"Then she told him of her mother's last words, and of how she hadpromised to meet her child whenever she looked into the glass. Butstill the father could not understand the simplicity of his daughter'scharacter in not knowing that what she saw reflected in the mirror wasin reality her own face, and not that of her mother."What do you mean?" he asked. "I do not understand how you can meet thesoul of your lost mother by looking in this mirror?""It is indeed true," said the girl: "and if you don't believe what Isay, look for yourself," and she placed the mirror before her. There,looking back from the smooth metal disk, was her own sweet face. Shepointed to the reflection seriously:"Do you doubt me still?" she asked earnestly, looking up into his face.With an exclamation of sudden understanding the father smote his twohands together."How stupid I am! At last I understand. Your face is as like yourmother's as the two sides of a melon thus you have looked at thereflection of your face all this time, thinking that you were broughtface to face with your lost mother! You are truly a faithful child. Itseems at first a stupid thing to have done, but it is not really so, Itshows how deep has been your filial piety, and how innocent your heart.Living in constant remembrance of your lost mother has helped you togrow like her in character. How clever it was of her to tell you to dothis. I admire and respect you, my daughter, and I am ashamed to thinkthat for one instant I believed your suspicious step mother's story andsuspected you of evil, and came with the intention of scolding youseverely, while all this time you have been so true and good. Beforeyou I have no countenance left, and I beg you to forgive me."And here the father wept. He thought of how lonely the poor girl musthave been, and of all that she must have suffered under herstep mother's treatment. His daughter steadfastly keeping her faith andsimplicity in the midst of such adverse circumstances bearing all hertroubles with so much patience and amiability made him compare her tothe lotus which rears its blossom of dazzling beauty out of the slimeand mud of the moats and ponds, fitting emblem of a heart which keepsitself unsullied while passing through the world.The step mother, anxious to know what would happen, had all this whilebeen standing outside the room. She had grown interested, and hadgradually pushed the sliding screen back till she could see all thatwent on. At this moment she suddenly entered the room, and dropping tothe mats, she bowed her head over her outspread hands before herstep daughter."I am ashamed! I am ashamed!" she exclaimed in broken tones. "I did notknow what a filial child you were. Through no fault of yours, but witha step mother's jealous heart, I have disliked you all the time. Hatingyou so much myself, it was but natural that I should think youreciprocated the feeling, and thus when I saw you retire so often toyour room I followed you, and when I saw you gaze daily into the mirrorfor long intervals, I concluded that you had found out how I dislikedyou, and that you were out of revenge trying to take my life by magicart. As long as I live I shall never forget the wrong I have done youin so misjudging you, and in causing your father to suspect you. Fromthis day I throw away my old and wicked heart, and in its place I put anew one, clean and full of repentance. I shall think of you as a childthat I have borne myself. I shall love and cherish you with all myheart, and thus try to make up for all the unhappiness I have causedyou. Therefore, please throw into the water all that has gone before,and give me, I beg of you, some of the filial love that you havehitherto given to your own lost mother."Thus did the unkind step mother humble herself and ask forgiveness ofthe girl she had so wronged.Such was the sweetness of the girl's disposition that she willinglyforgave her step mother, and never bore a moment's resentment or malicetowards her afterwards. The father saw by his wife's face that she wastruly sorry for the past, and was greatly relieved to see the terriblemisunderstanding wiped out of remembrance by both the wrong doer andthe wronged.From this time on, the three lived together as happily as fish inwater. No such trouble ever darkened the home again, and the young girlgradually forgot that year of unhappiness in the tender love and carethat her step mother now bestowed on her. Her patience and goodnesswere rewarded at last.