A moujik went out in pursuit of game one day, and took a favorite dogwith him. He walked and walked through woods and bogs, but got nothing forhis pains. At last the darkness of night surprised him. At an uncanny hourhe passed by a graveyard, and there, at a place where two roads met, hesaw standing a corpse in a white shroud. The moujik was horrified, andknew not which way to go   whether to keep on or to turn back."Well, whatever happens, I'll go on," he thought. and on he went, hisdog running at his heels. When the corpse perceived him, it came to meethim. not touching the earth with its feet, but keeping about a foot aboveit   the shroud fluttering after it. When it had come up with thesportsman, it made a rush at him. but the dog seized hold of it by itsbare calves, and began a tussle with it. When the moujik saw his dog andthe corpse grappling with each other, he was delighted that things hadturned out so well for himself, and he set off running home with all hismight. The dog kept up the struggle until cock crow, when the corpse fellmotionless to the ground. Then the dog ran off in pursuit of its master,caught him up just as he reached home, and rushed at him, furiously tryingto bite and to rend him. So savage was it, and so persistent, that it wasas much as the people of the house could do to beat it off."Whatever has come over the dog?" asked the moujik's old mother. "Whyshould it hate its master so?"The moujik told her all that had happened."A bad piece of work, my son!" said the old woman. "The dog wasdisgusted at your not helping it. There it was fighting with the corpse  and you deserted it, and thought only of saving yourself! Now it will oweyou a grudge for ever so long."Next morning, while the family were going about the farmyard, the dogwas perfectly quiet. But the moment its master made his appearance, itbegan to growl like anything.They fastened it to a chain. for a whole year they kept it chained up.But in spite of that, it never forgot how its master had offended it. Oneday it got loose, flew straight at him, and began trying to throttle him.So they had to kill it.