A certain man had longed all his life to look upon the Night of Power,and one night it befell that he gazed at the sky and saw the angels, andHeaven's gates thrown open. and he beheld all things prostratingthemselves before their Lord, each in its several stead. So he said to hiswife, "Harkye, such an one, verily Allah hath shown me the Night of Power,and it hath been proclaimed to me, from the invisible world, that threeprayers will be granted unto me. so I consult thee for counsel as to whatshall I ask."Quoth she, "Oh man, the perfection of man and his delight is in hisprickle. therefore do thou pray Allah to greaten thy yard and magnifyit."So he lifted up his hands to heaven and said, "Oh Allah, greaten myyard and magnify it." Hardly had he spoken when his tool became as big asa column and he could neither sit nor stand nor move about nor even stirfrom his stead. and when he would have carnally known his wife, she fledbefore him from place to place. So he said to her, "Oh accursed woman,what is to be done? This is thy list, by reason of thy lust."She replied, "No, by Allah, I did not ask for this length and hugebulk, for which the gate of a street were too strait. Pray Heaven to makeit less."So he raised his eyes to Heaven and said, "Oh Allah, rid me of thisthing and deliver me therefrom." And immediately his prickle disappearedaltogether and he became clean smooth.When his wife saw this she said, "I have no occasion for thee, now thouart become pegless as a eunuch, shaven and shorn."And he answered her, saying, "All this comes of thine ill omenedcounsel and thine imbecile judgment. I had three prayers accepted ofAllah, wherewith I might have gotten me my good, both in this world and inthe next, and now two wishes are gone in pure waste, by thy lewd will, andthere remaineth but one."Quoth she, "Pray Allah the Most High to restore thee thy yard as itwas."So he prayed to his Lord and his prickle was restored to its firstestate. Thus the man lost his three wishes by the lack of wit in thewoman.