A very old house stood once in a street with several that werequite new and clean. The date of its erection had been carved on oneof the beams, and surrounded by scrolls formed of tulips andhop tendrils. by this date it could be seen that the old house wasnearly three hundred years old. Verses too were written over thewindows in old fashioned letters, and grotesque faces, curiouslycarved, grinned at you from under the cornices. One story projecteda long way over the other, and under the roof ran a leaden gutter,with a dragon's head at the end. The rain was intended to pour outat the dragon's mouth, but it ran out of his body instead, for therewas a hole in the gutter. The other houses in the street were newand well built, with large window panes and smooth walls. Any onecould see they had nothing to do with the old house. Perhaps theythought, "How long will that heap of rubbish remain here to be adisgrace to the whole street. The parapet projects so far forward thatno one can see out of our windows what is going on in thatdirection. The stairs are as broad as the staircase of a castle, andas steep as if they led to a church tower. The iron railing looks likethe gate of a cemetery, and there are brass knobs upon it. It isreally too ridiculous."Opposite to the old house were more nice new houses, which hadjust the same opinion as their neighbors.At the window of one of them sat a little boy with fresh rosycheeks, and clear sparkling eyes, who was very fond of the oldhouse, in sunshine or in moonlight. He would sit and look at thewall from which the plaster had in some places fallen off, and fancyall sorts of scenes which had been in former times. How the streetmust have looked when the houses had all gable roofs, open staircases,and gutters with dragons at the spout. He could even see soldierswalking about with halberds. Certainly it was a very good house tolook at for amusement.An old man lived in it, who wore knee breeches, a coat withlarge brass buttons, and a wig, which any one could see was a realwig. Every morning an old man came to clean the rooms, and to waitupon him, otherwise the old man in the knee breeches would have beenquite alone in the house. Sometimes he came to one of the windowsand looked out. then the little boy nodded to him, and the old mannodded back again, till they became acquainted, and were friends,although they had never spoken to each other. but that was of noconsequence.The little boy one day heard his parents say, "The old manopposite is very well off, but is terribly lonely." The next Sundaymorning the little boy wrapped something in a piece of paper andtook it to the door of the old house, and said to the attendant whowaited upon the old man, "Will you please give this from me to thegentleman who lives here. I have two tin soldiers, and this is oneof them, and he shall have it, because I know he is terribly lonely."And the old attendant nodded and looked very pleased, and thenhe carried the tin soldier into the house.Afterwards he was sent over to ask the little boy if he wouldnot like to pay a visit himself. His parents gave him permission,and so it was that he gained admission to the old house.The brassy knobs on the railings shone more brightly than ever, asif they had been polished on account of his visit. and on the doorwere carved trumpeters standing in tulips, and it seemed as if theywere blowing with all their might, their cheeks were so puffed out."Tanta ra ra, the little boy is coming. Tanta ra ra, the little boy iscoming."Then the door opened. All round the hall hung old portraits ofknights in armor, and ladies in silk gowns. and the armor rattled, andthe silk dresses rustled. Then came a staircase which went up a longway, and then came down a little way and led to a balcony, which wasin a very ruinous state. There were large holes and long cracks, outof which grew grass and leaves, indeed the whole balcony, thecourtyard, and the walls were so overgrown with green that they lookedlike a garden. In the balcony stood flower pots, on which were headshaving asses' ears, but the flowers in them grew just as they pleased.In one pot pinks were growing all over the sides, at least the greenleaves were shooting forth stalk and stem, and saying as plainly asthey could speak, "The air has fanned me, the sun has kissed me, and Iam promised a little flower for next Sunday really for next Sunday."Then they entered a room in which the walls were covered withleather, and the leather had golden flowers stamped upon it."Gilding will fade in damp weather,To endure, there is nothing like leather,"said the walls. Chairs handsomely carved, with elbows on each side,and with very high backs, stood in the room, and as they creakedthey seemed to say, "Sit down. Oh dear, how I am creaking. I shallcertainly have the gout like the old cupboard. Gout in my back, ugh."And then the little boy entered the room where the old man sat."Thank you for the tin soldier my little friend," said the oldman, "and thank you also for coming to see me.""Thanks, thanks," or "Creak, creak," said all the furniture.There was so much that the pieces of furniture stood in eachother's way to get a sight of the little boy.On the wall near the centre of the room hung the picture of abeautiful lady, young and gay, dressed in the fashion of the oldentimes, with powdered hair, and a full, stiff skirt. She said neither"thanks" nor "creak," but she looked down upon the little boy with hermild eyes. and then he said to the old man,"Where did you get that picture?""From the shop opposite," he replied. "Many portraits hang therethat none seem to trouble themselves about. The persons they representhave been dead and buried long since. But I knew this lady manyyears ago, and she has been dead nearly half a century."Under a glass beneath the picture hung a nosegay of witheredflowers, which were no doubt half a century old too, at least theyappeared so.And the pendulum of the old clock went to and fro, and the handsturned round. and as time passed on, everything in the room grewolder, but no one seemed to notice it."They say at home," said the little boy, "that you are verylonely.""Oh," replied the old man, "I have pleasant thoughts of all thathas passed, recalled by memory. and now you are come to visit me,and that is very pleasant."Then he took from the book case, a book full of picturesrepresenting long processions of wonderful coaches, such as arenever seen at the present time. Soldiers like the knave of clubs,and citizens with waving banners. The tailors had a flag with a pairof scissors supported by two lions, and on the shoemakers' flagthere were not boots, but an eagle with two heads, for theshoemakers must have everything arranged so that they can say, "Thisis a pair." What a picture book it was. and then the old man went intoanother room to fetch apples and nuts. It was very pleasant,certainly, to be in that old house."I cannot endure it," said the tin soldier, who stood on ashelf, "it is so lonely and dull here. I have been accustomed tolive in a family, and I cannot get used to this life. I cannot bearit. The whole day is long enough, but the evening is longer. It is nothere like it was in your house opposite, when your father and mothertalked so cheerfully together, while you and all the dear childrenmade such a delightful noise. No, it is all lonely in the old man'shouse. Do you think he gets any kisses? Do you think he ever hasfriendly looks, or a Christmas tree? He will have nothing now butthe grave. Oh, I cannot bear it.""You must not look only on the sorrowful side," said the littleboy. "I think everything in this house is beautiful, and all the oldpleasant thoughts come back here to pay visits.""Ah, but I never see any, and I don't know them," said the tinsoldier, "and I cannot bear it.""You must bear it," said the little boy. Then the old man cameback with a pleasant face. and brought with him beautiful preservedfruits, as well as apples and nuts. and the little boy thought no moreof the tin soldier. How happy and delighted the little boy was. andafter he returned home, and while days and weeks passed, a greatdeal of nodding took place from one house to the other, and then thelittle boy went to pay another visit. The carved trumpeters blew"Tanta ra ra. There is the little boy. Tanta ra ra." The swords andarmor on the old knight's pictures rattled. The silk dressesrustled, the leather repeated its rhyme, and the old chairs had thegout in their backs, and cried, "Creak." it was all exactly like thefirst time. for in that house, one day and one hour were just likeanother. "I cannot bear it any longer," said the tin soldier. "Ihave wept tears of tin, it is so melancholy here. Let me go to thewars, and lose an arm or a leg, that would be some change. I cannotbear it. Now I know what it is to have visits from one's oldrecollections, and all they bring with them. I have had visits frommine, and you may believe me it is not altogether pleasant. I was verynearly jumping from the shelf. I saw you all in your house opposite,as if you were really present. It was Sunday morning, and you childrenstood round the table, singing the hymn that you sing every morning.You were standing quietly, with your hands folded, and your father andmother. You were standing quietly, with your hands folded, and yourfather and mother were looking just as serious, when the dooropened, and your little sister Maria, who is not two years old, wasbrought into the room. You know she always dances when she hears musicand singing of any sort. so she began to dance immediately, althoughshe ought not to have done so, but she could not get into the righttime because the tune was so slow. so she stood first on one leg andthen on the other, and bent her head very low, but it would not suitthe music. You all stood looking very grave, although it was verydifficult to do so, but I laughed so to myself that I fell down fromthe table, and got a bruise, which is there still. I know it was notright to laugh. So all this, and everything else that I have seen,keeps running in my head, and these must be the old recollections thatbring so many thoughts with them. Tell me whether you still sing onSundays, and tell me about your little sister Maria, and how my oldcomrade is, the other tin soldier. Ah, really he must be very happy. Icannot endure this life.""You are given away," said the little boy. "you must stay. Don'tyou see that?" Then the old man came in, with a box containing manycurious things to show him. Rouge pots, scent boxes, and old cards, solarge and so richly gilded, that none are ever seen like them in thesedays. And there were smaller boxes to look at, and the piano wasopened, and inside the lid were painted landscapes. But when the oldman played, the piano sounded quite out of tune. Then he looked at thepicture he had bought at the broker's, and his eyes sparkledbrightly as he nodded at it, and said, "Ah, she could sing that tune.""I will go to the wars! I will go to the wars!" cried the tinsoldier as loud as he could, and threw himself down on the floor.Where could he have fallen? The old man searched, and the little boysearched, but he was gone, and could not be found. "I shall find himagain," said the old man, but he did not find him. The boards of thefloor were open and full of holes. The tin soldier had fallenthrough a crack between the boards, and lay there now in an opengrave. The day went by, and the little boy returned home. the weekpassed, and many more weeks. It was winter, and the windows were quitefrozen, so the little boy was obliged to breathe on the panes, and ruba hole to peep through at the old house. Snow drifts were lying in allthe scrolls and on the inscriptions, and the steps were covered withsnow as if no one were at home. And indeed nobody was home, for theold man was dead. In the evening, a hearse stopped at the door, andthe old man in his coffin was placed in it. He was to be taken tothe country to be buried there in his own grave. so they carried himaway. no one followed him, for all his friends were dead. and thelittle boy kissed his hand to the coffin as the hearse moved away withit. A few days after, there was an auction at the old house, andfrom his window the little boy saw the people carrying away thepictures of old knights and ladies, the flower pots with the longears, the old chairs, and the cup boards. Some were taken one way,some another. Her portrait, which had been bought at the picturedealer's, went back again to his shop, and there it remained, for noone seemed to know her, or to care for the old picture. In the spring.they began to pull the house itself down. people called it completerubbish. From the street could be seen the room in which the wallswere covered with leather, ragged and torn, and the green in thebalcony hung straggling over the beams. they pulled it down quickly,for it looked ready to fall, and at last it was cleared awayaltogether. "What a good riddance," said the neighbors' houses. Veryshortly, a fine new house was built farther back from the road. it hadlofty windows and smooth walls, but in front, on the spot where theold house really stood, a little garden was planted, and wild vinesgrew up over the neighboring walls. in front of the garden werelarge iron railings and a great gate, which looked very stately.People used to stop and peep through the railings. The sparrowsassembled in dozens upon the wild vines, and chattered all together asloud as they could, but not about the old house. none of them couldremember it, for many years had passed by, so many indeed, that thelittle boy was now a man, and a really good man too, and his parentswere very proud of him. He was just married, and had come, with hisyoung wife, to reside in the new house with the garden in front of it,and now he stood there by her side while she planted a field flowerthat she thought very pretty. She was planting it herself with herlittle hands, and pressing down the earth with her fingers. "Ohdear, what was that?" she exclaimed, as something pricked her. Outof the soft earth something was sticking up. It was only think! itwas really the tin soldier, the very same which had been lost up inthe old man's room, and had been hidden among old wood and rubbish fora long time, till it sunk into the earth, where it must have beenfor many years. And the young wife wiped the soldier, first with agreen leaf, and then with her fine pocket handkerchief, that smeltof such beautiful perfume. And the tin soldier felt as if he wasrecovering from a fainting fit. "Let me see him," said the youngman, and then he smiled and shook his head, and said, "It can scarcelybe the same, but it reminds me of something that happened to one of mytin soldiers when I was a little boy." And then he told his wife aboutthe old house and the old man, and of the tin soldier which he hadsent across, because he thought the old man was lonely. and he relatedthe story so clearly that tears came into the eyes of the young wifefor the old house and the old man. "It is very likely that this isreally the same soldier," said she, "and I will take care of him, andalways remember what you have told me. but some day you must show methe old man's grave.""I don't know where it is," he replied. "no one knows. All hisfriends are dead. no one took care of him, and I was only a littleboy.""Oh, how dreadfully lonely he must have been," said she."Yes, terribly lonely," cried the tin soldier. "still it isdelightful not to be forgotten.""Delightful indeed," cried a voice quite near to them. no onebut the tin soldier saw that it came from a rag of the leather whichhung in tatters. it had lost all its gilding, and looked like wetearth, but it had an opinion, and it spoke it thus: "Gilding will fade in damp weather,To endure, there is nothing like leather."But the tin soldier did not believe any such thing.