I will tell you a story about the wren. There was once a farmer who wasseeking a servant, and the wren met him and said: "What are youseeking?""I am seeking a servant," said the farmer to the wren."Will you take me?" said the wren."You, you poor creature, what good would you do?""Try me," said the wren.So he engaged him, and the first work he set him to do was threshing inthe barn. The wren threshed (what did he thresh with? Why a flail to besure), and he knocked off one grain. A mouse came out and she eats that."I'll trouble you not to do that again," said the wren.He struck again, and he struck off two grains. Out came the mouse andshe eats them. So they arranged a contest to see who was strongest, andthe wren brings his twelve birds, and the mouse her tribe."You have your tribe with you," said the wren."As well as yourself," said the mouse, and she struck out her legproudly. But the wren broke it with his flail, and there was a pitchedbattle on a set day.When every creature and bird was gathering to battle, the son of theking of Tethertown said that he would go to see the battle, and that hewould bring sure word home to his father the king, who would be king ofthe creatures this year. The battle was over before he arrived all butone fight, between a great black raven and a snake. The snake wastwined about the raven's neck, and the raven held the snake's throat inhis beak, and it seemed as if the snake would get the victory over theraven. When the king's son saw this he helped the raven, and with oneblow takes the head off the snake. When the raven had taken breath, andsaw that the snake was dead, he said, "For thy kindness to me this day,I will give thee a sight. Come up now on the root of my two wings." Theking's son put his hands about the raven before his wings, and, beforehe stopped, he took him over nine Bens, and nine Glens, and nineMountain Moors."Now," said the raven, "see you that house yonder? Go now to it. It isa sister of mine that makes her dwelling in it. and I will go bail thatyou are welcome. And if she asks you, Were you at the battle of thebirds? say you were. And if she asks, 'Did you see any one like me,'say you did, but be sure that you meet me to morrow morning here, inthis place." The king's son got good and right good treatment thatnight. Meat of each meat, drink of each drink, warm water to his feet,and a soft bed for his limbs.On the next day the raven gave him the same sight over six Bens, andsix Glens, and six Mountain Moors. They saw a bothy far off, but,though far off, they were soon there. He got good treatment this night,as before plenty of meat and drink, and warm water to his feet, and asoft bed to his limbs and on the next day it was the same thing, overthree Bens and three Glens, and three Mountain Moors.On the third morning, instead of seeing the raven as at the othertimes, who should meet him but the handsomest lad he ever saw, withgold rings in his hair, with a bundle in his hand. The king's son askedthis lad if he had seen a big black raven.Said the lad to him, "You will never see the raven again, for I am thatraven. I was put under spells by a bad druid. it was meeting you thatloosed me, and for that you shall get this bundle. Now," said the lad,"you must turn back on the self same steps, and lie a night in eachhouse as before. but you must not loose the bundle which I gave ye,till in the place where you would most wish to dwell."The king's son turned his back to the lad, and his face to his father'shouse. and he got lodging from the raven's sisters, just as he got itwhen going forward. When he was nearing his father's house he was goingthrough a close wood. It seemed to him that the bundle was growingheavy, and he thought he would look what was in it.When he loosed the bundle he was astonished. In a twinkling he sees thevery grandest place he ever saw. A great castle, and an orchard aboutthe castle, in which was every kind of fruit and herb. He stood full ofwonder and regret for having loosed the bundle for it was not in hispower to put it back again and he would have wished this pretty placeto be in the pretty little green hollow that was opposite his father'shouse. but he looked up and saw a great giant coming towards him."Bad's the place where you have built the house, king's son," says thegiant."Yes, but it is not here I would wish it to be, though it happens to behere by mishap," says the king's son."What's the reward for putting it back in the bundle as it was before?""What's the reward you would ask?" says the king's son."That you will give me the first son you have when he is seven years ofage," says the giant."If I have a son you shall have him," said the king's son.In a twinkling the giant put each garden, and orchard, and castle inthe bundle as they were before."Now," says the giant, "take your own road, and I will take mine. butmind your promise, and if you forget I will remember."The king's son took to the road, and at the end of a few days hereached the place he was fondest of. He loosed the bundle, and thecastle was just as it was before. And when he opened the castle door hesees the handsomest maiden he ever cast eye upon."Advance, king's son," said the pretty maid. "everything is in orderfor you, if you will marry me this very day.""It's I that am willing," said the king's son. And on the same day theymarried.But at the end of a day and seven years, who should be seen coming tothe castle but the giant. The king's son was reminded of his promise tothe giant, and till now he had not told his promise to the queen."Leave the matter between me and the giant," says the queen."Turn out your son," says the giant. "mind your promise.""You shall have him," says the king, "when his mother puts him in orderfor his journey."The queen dressed up the cook's son, and she gave him to the giant bythe hand. The giant went away with him. but he had not gone far when heput a rod in the hand of the little laddie. The giant asked him "If thy father had that rod what would he do with it?""If my father had that rod he would beat the dogs and the cats, so thatthey shouldn't be going near the king's meat," said the little laddie."Thou'rt the cook's son," said the giant. He catches him by the twosmall ankles and knocks him against the stone that was beside him. Thegiant turned back to the castle in rage and madness, and he said thatif they did not send out the king's son to him, the highest stone ofthe castle would be the lowest.Said the queen to the king, "We'll try it yet. the butler's son is ofthe same age as our son."She dressed up the butler's son, and she gives him to the giant by thehand. The giant had not gone far when he put the rod in his hand."If thy father had that rod," says the giant, "what would he do withit?""He would beat the dogs and the cats when they would be coming near theking's bottles and glasses.""Thou art the son of the butler," says the giant and dashed his brainsout too. The giant returned in a very great rage and anger. The earthshook under the sole of his feet, and the castle shook and all that wasin it."OUT HERE WITH THY SON," says the giant, "or in a twinkling the stonethat is highest in the dwelling will be the lowest." So they had togive the king's son to the giant.When they were gone a little bit from the earth, the giant showed himthe rod that was in his hand and said: "What would thy father do withthis rod if he had it?"The king's son said: "My father has a braver rod than that."And the giant asked him, "Where is thy father when he has that braverod?"And the king's son said: "He will be sitting in his kingly chair."Then the giant understood that he had the right one.The giant took him to his own house, and he reared him as his own son.On a day of days when the giant was from home, the lad heard thesweetest music he ever heard in a room at the top of the giant's house.At a glance he saw the finest face he had ever seen. She beckoned tohim to come a bit nearer to her, and she said her name was Auburn Marybut she told him to go this time, but to be sure to be at the sameplace about that dead midnight.And as he promised he did. The giant's daughter was at his side in atwinkling, and she said, "To morrow you will get the choice of my twosisters to marry. but say that you will not take either, but me. Myfather wants me to marry the son of the king of the Green City, but Idon't like him." On the morrow the giant took out his three daughters,and he said:"Now, son of the king of Tethertown, thou hast not lost by living withme so long. Thou wilt get to wife one of the two eldest of mydaughters, and with her leave to go home with her the day after thewedding.""If you will give me this pretty little one," says the king's son, "Iwill take you at your word."The giant's wrath kindled, and he said: "Before thou gett'st her thoumust do the three things that I ask thee to do.""Say on," says the king's son.The giant took him to the byre."Now," says the giant, "a hundred cattle are stabled here, and it hasnot been cleansed for seven years. I am going from home to day, and ifthis byre is not cleaned before night comes, so clean that a goldenapple will run from end to end of it, not only thou shalt not get mydaughter, but 'tis only a drink of thy fresh, goodly, beautiful bloodthat will quench my thirst this night."He begins cleaning the byre, but he might just as well to keep balingthe great ocean. After midday when sweat was blinding him, the giant'syoungest daughter came where he was, and she said to him:"You are being punished, king's son.""I am that," says the king's son."Come over," says Auburn Mary, "and lay down your weariness.""I will do that," says he, "there is but death awaiting me, at anyrate." He sat down near her. He was so tired that he fell asleep besideher. When he awoke, the giant's daughter was not to be seen, but thebyre was so well cleaned that a golden apple would run from end to endof it and raise no stain. In comes the giant, and he said:"Hast thou cleaned the byre, king's son?""I have cleaned it," says he."Somebody cleaned it," says the giant."You did not clean it, at all events," said the king's son."Well, well!" says the giant, "since thou wert so active to day, thouwilt get to this time to morrow to thatch this byre with birds' down,from birds with no two feathers of one colour."The king's son was on foot before the sun. he caught up his bow and hisquiver of arrows to kill the birds. He took to the moors, but if hedid, the birds were not so easy to take. He was running after them tillthe sweat was blinding him. About mid day who should come but AuburnMary."You are exhausting yourself, king's son," says she."I am," said he."There fell but these two blackbirds, and both of one colour.""Come over and lay down your weariness on this pretty hillock," saysthe giant's daughter."It's I am willing," said he.He thought she would aid him this time, too, and he sat down near her,and he was not long there till he fell asleep.When he awoke, Auburn Mary was gone. He thought he would go back to thehouse, and he sees the byre thatched with feathers. When the giant camehome, he said:"Hast thou thatched the byre, king's son?""I thatched it," says he."Somebody thatched it," says the giant."You did not thatch it," says the king's son."Yes, yes!" says the giant. "Now," says the giant, "there is a fir treebeside that loch down there, and there is a magpie's nest in its top.The eggs thou wilt find in the nest. I must have them for my firstmeal. Not one must be burst or broken, and there are five in the nest."Early in the morning the king's son went where the tree was, and thattree was not hard to hit upon. Its match was not in the whole wood.From the foot to the first branch was five hundred feet. The king's sonwas going all round the tree. She came who was always bringing help tohim."You are losing the skin of your hands and feet.""Ach! I am," says he. "I am no sooner up than down.""This is no time for stopping," says the giant's daughter. "Now youmust kill me, strip the flesh from my bones, take all those bonesapart, and use them as steps for climbing the tree. When you areclimbing the tree, they will stick to the glass as if they had grownout of it. but when you are coming down, and have put your foot on eachone, they will drop into your hand when you touch them. Be sure andstand on each bone, leave none untouched. if you do, it will staybehind. Put all my flesh into this clean cloth by the side of thespring at the roots of the tree. When you come to the earth, arrange mybones together, put the flesh over them, sprinkle it with water fromthe spring, and I shall be alive before you. But don't forget a bone ofme on the tree.""How could I kill you," asked the king's son, "after what you have donefor me?""If you won't obey, you and I are done for," said Auburn Mary. "Youmust climb the tree, or we are lost. and to climb the tree you must doas I say." The king's son obeyed. He killed Auburn Mary, cut the fleshfrom her body, and unjointed the bones, as she had told him.As he went up, the king's son put the bones of Auburn Mary's bodyagainst the side of the tree, using them as steps, till he came underthe nest and stood on the last bone.Then he took the eggs, and coming down, put his foot on every bone,then took it with him, till he came to the last bone, which was so nearthe ground that he failed to touch it with his foot.He now placed all the bones of Auburn Mary in order again at the sideof the spring, put the flesh on them, sprinkled it with water from thespring. She rose up before him, and said: "Didn't I tell you not toleave a bone of my body without stepping on it? Now I am lame for life!You left my little finger on the tree without touching it, and I havebut nine fingers.""Now," says she, "go home with the eggs quickly, and you will get me tomarry to night if you can know me. I and my two sisters will be arrayedin the same garments, and made like each other, but look at me when myfather says, 'Go to thy wife, king's son.' and you will see a handwithout a little finger."He gave the eggs to the giant."Yes, yes!" says the giant, "be making ready for your marriage."Then, indeed, there was a wedding, and it _was_ a wedding! Giants andgentlemen, and the son of the king of the Green City was in the midstof them. They were married, and the dancing began, that was a dance!The giant's house was shaking from top to bottom.But bed time came, and the giant said, "It is time for thee to go torest, son of the king of Tethertown. choose thy bride to take with theefrom amidst those."She put out the hand off which the little finger was, and he caught herby the hand."Thou hast aimed well this time too. but there is no knowing but we maymeet thee another way," said the giant.But to rest they went. "Now," says she, "sleep not, or else you are adead man. We must fly quick, quick, or for certain my father will killyou."Out they went, and on the blue grey filly in the stable they mounted."Stop a while," says she, "and I will play a trick to the old hero."She jumped in, and cut an apple into nine shares, and she put twoshares at the head of the bed, and two shares at the foot of the bed,and two shares at the door of the kitchen, and two shares at the bigdoor, and one outside the house.The giant awoke and called, "Are you asleep?""Not yet," said the apple that was at the head of the bed.At the end of a while he called again."Not yet," said the apple that was at the foot of the bed.A while after this he called again: "Are your asleep?""Not yet," said the apple at the kitchen door.The giant called again.The apple that was at the big door answered."You are now going far from me," says the giant."Not yet," says the apple that was outside the house."You are flying," says the giant. The giant jumped on his feet, and tothe bed he went, but it was cold empty."My own daughter's tricks are trying me," said the giant. "Here's afterthem," says he.At the mouth of day, the giant's daughter said that her father's breathwas burning her back."Put your hand, quick," said she, "in the ear of the grey filly, andwhatever you find in it, throw it behind us.""There is a twig of sloe tree," said he."Throw it behind us," said she.No sooner did he that, than there were twenty miles of blackthorn wood,so thick that scarce a weasel could go through it.The giant came headlong, and there he is fleecing his head and neck inthe thorns."My own daughter's tricks are here as before," said the giant. "but ifI had my own big axe and wood knife here, I would not be long making away through this."He went home for the big axe and the wood knife, and sure he was notlong on his journey, and he was the boy behind the big axe. He was notlong making a way through the blackthorn."I will leave the axe and the wood knife here till I return," says he."If you leave 'em, leave 'em," said a hoodie that was in a tree, "we'llsteal 'em, steal 'em.""If you will do that," says the giant, "I must take them home." Hereturned home and left them at the house.At the heat of day the giant's daughter felt her father's breathburning her back."Put your finger in the filly's ear, and throw behind whatever you findin it."He got a splinter of grey stone, and in a twinkling there were twentymiles, by breadth and height, of great grey rock behind them.The giant came full pelt, but past the rock he could not go."The tricks of my own daughter are the hardest things that ever metme," says the giant. "but if I had my lever and my mighty mattock, Iwould not be long in making my way through this rock also."There was no help for it, but to turn the chase for them. and he wasthe boy to split the stones. He was not long in making a road throughthe rock."I will leave the tools here, and I will return no more.""If you leave 'em, leave 'em," says the hoodie, "we will steal 'em,steal 'em.""Do that if you will. there is no time to go back."At the time of breaking the watch, the giant's daughter said that shefelt her father's breath burning her back."Look in the filly's ear, king's son, or else we are lost."He did so, and it was a bladder of water that was in her ear this time.He threw it behind him and there was a fresh water loch, twenty milesin length and breadth, behind them.The giant came on, but with the speed he had on him, he was in themiddle of the loch, and he went under, and he rose no more.On the next day the young companions were come in sight of his father'shouse. "Now," says she, "my father is drowned, and he won't trouble usany more. but before we go further," says she, "go you to your father'shouse, and tell that you have the likes of me. but let neither man norcreature kiss you, for if you do, you will not remember that you haveever seen me."Every one he met gave him welcome and luck, and he charged his fatherand mother not to kiss him. but as mishap was to be, an old greyhoundwas indoors, and she knew him, and jumped up to his mouth, and afterthat he did not remember the giant's daughter.She was sitting at the well's side as he left her, but the king's sonwas not coming. In the mouth of night she climbed up into a tree of oakthat was beside the well, and she lay in the fork of that tree allnight. A shoemaker had a house near the well, and about mid day on themorrow, the shoemaker asked his wife to go for a drink for him out ofthe well. When the shoemaker's wife reached the well, and when she sawthe shadow of her that was in the tree, thinking it was her ownshadow and she never thought till now that she was so handsome shegave a cast to the dish that was in her hand, and it was broken on theground, and she took herself to the house without vessel or water."Where is the water, wife?" said the shoemaker."You shambling, contemptible old carle, without grace, I have stayedtoo long your water and wood thrall.""I think, wife, that you have turned crazy. Go you, daughter, quickly,and fetch a drink for your father."His daughter went, and in the same way so it happened to her. She neverthought till now that she was so lovable, and she took herself home."Up with the drink," said her father."You home spun shoe carle, do you think I am fit to be your thrall?"The poor shoemaker thought that they had taken a turn in theirunderstandings, and he went himself to the well. He saw the shadow ofthe maiden in the well, and he looked up to the tree, and he sees thefinest woman he ever saw."Your seat is wavering, but your face is fair," said the shoemaker."Come down, for there is need of you for a short while at my house."The shoemaker understood that this was the shadow that had driven hispeople mad. The shoemaker took her to his house, and he said that hehad but a poor bothy, but that she should get a share of all that wasin it.One day, the shoemaker had shoes ready, for on that very day the king'sson was to be married. The shoemaker was going to the castle with theshoes of the young people, and the girl said to the shoemaker, "I wouldlike to get a sight of the king's son before he marries.""Come with me," says the shoemaker, "I am well acquainted with theservants at the castle, and you shall get a sight of the king's son andall the company."And when the gentles saw the pretty woman that was here they took herto the wedding room, and they filled for her a glass of wine. When shewas going to drink what is in it, a flame went up out of the glass, anda golden pigeon and a silver pigeon sprang out of it. They were flyingabout when three grains of barley fell on the floor. The silver pigeonsprung, and ate that up.Said the golden pigeon to him, "If you remembered when I cleared thebyre, you would not eat that without giving me a share."Again there fell three other grains of barley, and the silver pigeonsprung, and ate that up as before."If you remembered when I thatched the byre, you would not eat thatwithout giving me my share," says the golden pigeon.Three other grains fall, and the silver pigeon sprung, and ate that up."If you remembered when I harried the magpie's nest, you would not eatthat without giving me my share," says the golden pigeon. "I lost mylittle finger bringing it down, and I want it still."The king's son minded, and he knew who it was that was before him."Well," said the king's son to the guests at the feast, "when I was alittle younger than I am now, I lost the key of a casket that I had. Ihad a new key made, but after it was brought to me I found the old one.Now, I'll leave it to any one here to tell me what I am to do. Which ofthe keys should I keep?""My advice to you," said one of the guests, "is to keep the old key,for it fits the lock better and you're more used to it."Then the king's son stood up and said: "I thank you for a wise adviceand an honest word. This is my bride the daughter of the giant whosaved my life at the risk of her own. I'll have her and no other woman."So the king's son married Auburn Mary and the wedding lasted long andall were happy. But all I got was butter on a live coal, porridge in abasket, and they sent me for water to the stream, and the paper shoescame to an end.