The names of the youth and maiden who fixed the term of the Lover'sCove upon this retired spot have passed from the memory of man. A simplestory, however, remains, the mere fragment, without doubt, of a longer andmore ancient tale.The course of love with this humble pair did not run smooth. On oneside or the other the parents were decidedly opposed to the intimacy whichexisted, and by their persecutions, they so far succeeded, that the youngman was compelled to emigrate to some far distant land.In this cove the lovers met for the last time in life, and vowed underthe light of the full moon, that living or dead they would meet at the endof three years.The young woman remained with her friends   the young man went to theIndies. Time passed on, and the three years, which had been years ofmelancholy to both, were expiring.One moonlight night, when the sea was tranquil as a mirror, an oldcrone sat on the edge of the cliff "making her charms." She saw afigure she was sure it was a spirit, very like the villagemaiden descend into the cove, and seat herself upon a rock, aroundtwo thirds of which the light waves were rippling. On this rock sat themaiden, looking anxiously out over the sea, until, from the rising of thetide, she was completely surrounded.The old woman called. but in vain the maiden was unconscious of anyvoice. There she sat, and the tide was rising rapidly around her. The oldwoman, now seeing the danger in which she was, resolved to go down intothe cove, and, if possible, awaken the maiden to a sense of her danger. Todo this, it was necessary to go round a projecting pile of rocks. Whiledoing this, she lost sight of the object of her interest, and much was hersurprise, when she again saw the maiden, to perceive a young sailor by herside, with his arm around her waist. Conceiving that help had arrived, theold woman sat herself down on the slope of the descending path, andresolved patiently to await the arrival of the pair on shore, and then torate the girl soundly.She sat watching this loving and lovely pair, lighted as they were onthe black rock by a full flood of moonshine. There they sat, and the tiderose and washed around them. Never were boy and girl so made, and at lastthe terrified old woman shrieked with excitement. Suddenly they appearedto float off upon the waters. She thought she heard their voices. butthere was no sound of terror. Instead of it a tranquil murmuring music,like the voice of doves, singing:I am thineThou art mine,Beyond control.In the waveBe the graveOf heart and soul.Down, down into the sea passed the lovers.Awestruck, the old woman looked on, until, as she said, "At last theyturned round, looked me full in the face, smiling like angels, and,kissing each other, sank to rise no more."They tell us that the body of the young woman was found a day or twoafter in a neighboring cove, and that intelligence eventually reachedEngland that the young man had been killed on this very night.