In the olden time, when wishing was having, there lived a King, whosedaughters were all beautiful. but the youngest was so exceedinglybeautiful that the Sun himself, although he saw her very, very often,was delighted every time she came out into the sunshine.Near the castle of this King was a large and gloomy forest, where in themidst stood an old lime tree, beneath whose branches splashed a littlefountain. so, whenever it was very hot, the King's youngest daughter ranoff into this wood, and sat down by the side of the fountain. and, whenshe felt dull, would often divert herself by throwing a golden ball upinto the air and catching it again. And this was her favorite amusement.Now, one day it happened that this golden ball, when the King's daughterthrew it into the air, did not fall down into her hand, but on to thegrass. and then it rolled right into the fountain. The King's daughterfollowed the ball with her eyes, but it disappeared beneath the water,which was so deep that she could not see to the bottom. Then she beganto lament, and to cry more loudly and more loudly. and, as she cried, avoice called out, "Why weepest thou, O King's daughter? thy tears wouldmelt even a stone to pity." She looked around to the spot whence thevoice came, and saw a frog stretching his thick, ugly head out of thewater. "Ah! you old water paddler," said she, "was it you that spoke? Iam weeping for my golden ball which bounced away from me into thewater.""Be quiet, and do not cry," replied the Frog. "I can give thee goodassistance. But what wilt thou give me if I succeed in fetching thyplaything up again?""What would you like, dear Frog?" said she. "My dresses, my pearls andjewels, or the golden crown which I wear?"The Frog replied, "Dresses, or jewels, or golden crowns, are not for me.but if thou wilt love me, and let me be thy companion and playmate, andsit at thy table, and eat from thy little golden plate, and drink out ofthy cup, and sleep in thy little bed, if thou wilt promise me all thesethings, then I will dive down and fetch up thy golden ball.""Oh, I will promise you all," said she, "if you will only get me mygolden ball." But she thought to herself, "What is the silly Frogchattering about? Let him stay in the water with his equals. he cannotenter into society." Then the Frog, as soon as he had received herpromise, drew his head under the water and dived down. Presently he swamup again with the golden ball in his mouth, and threw it on to thegrass. The King's daughter was full of joy when she again saw herbeautiful plaything. and, taking it up, she ran off immediately. "Stop!stop!" cried the Frog. "take me with thee. I cannot run as thou canst."But this croaking was of no avail. although it was loud enough, theKing's daughter did not hear it, but, hastening home, soon forgot thepoor Frog, who was obliged to leap back into the fountain.The next day, when the King's daughter was sitting at table with herfather and all his courtiers, and was eating from her own little goldenplate, something was heard coming up the marble stairs, splish splash,splish splash. and when it arrived at the top, it knocked at the door,and a voice said "Open the door, thou youngest daughter of the King!"So she arose and went to see who it was that called to her. but when sheopened the door and caught sight of the Frog, she shut it again veryquickly and with great passion, and sat down at the table, lookingexceedingly pale.But the King perceived that her heart was beating violently, and askedher whether it were a giant who had come to fetch her away who stood atthe door. "Oh, no!" answered she. "it is no giant, but an ugly Frog.""What does the Frog want with you?" said the King."Oh, dear father, yesterday when I was playing by the fountain, mygolden ball fell into the water, and this Frog fetched it up againbecause I cried so much: but first, I must tell you, he pressed me somuch, that I promised him he should be my companion. I never thoughtthat he could come out of the water, but somehow he has managed to jumpout, and now he wants to come in here."At that moment there was another knock, and a voice said "King's daughter, youngest,Open the door.Hast thou forgottenThy promises madeAt the fountain so clear'Neath the lime tree's shade?King's daughter, youngest.Open the door."Then the King said, "What you have promised, that you must perform. goand let him in." So the King's daughter went and opened the door, andthe Frog hopped in after her right up to her chair: and as soon as shewas seated, he said, "Lift me up." but she hesitated so long that theKing had to order her to obey. And as soon as the Frog sat on the chairhe jumped on to the table and said, "Now push thy plate near me, that wemay eat together." And she did so, but as every one noticed, veryunwillingly. The Frog seemed to relish his dinner very much, but everybit that the King's daughter ate nearly choked her, till at last theFrog said, "I have satisfied my hunger, and feel very tired. wilt thoucarry me upstairs now into thy chamber, and make thy bed ready that wemay sleep together?" At this speech the King's daughter began to cry,for she was afraid of the cold Frog, and dared not touch him. andbesides, he actually wanted to sleep in her own beautiful, clean bed!But her tears only made the King very angry, and he said, "He who helpedyou in the time of your trouble must not now be despised!" So she tookthe Frog up with two fingers, and put him into a corner of her chamber.But as she lay in her bed, he crept up to it, and said, "I am so verytired that I shall sleep well. do take me up, or I will tell thyfather." This speech put the King's daughter into a terrible passion,and catching the Frog up, she threw him with all her strength againstthe wall, saying "Now will you be quiet, you ugly Frog!"But as he fell he was changed from a Frog into a handsome Prince withbeautiful eyes, who after a little while became her dear companion andbetrothed. One morning, Henry, trusted servant of the Prince, came forthem with a carriage. When his master was changed into a frog, trustyHenry had grieved so much that he had bound three iron bands around hisheart, for fear it should break with grief and sorrow. The faithfulHenry (who was also the trusty Henry) helped in the bride andbridegroom, and placed himself in the seat behind, full of joy at hismaster's release. They had not proceeded far when the Prince heard acrack as if something had broken behind the carriage. so he put his headout of the window and asked trusty Henry what was broken, and faithfulHenry answered, "It was not the carriage, my master, but an iron bandwhich I bound around my heart when it was in such grief because you werechanged into a frog."Twice afterwards on the journey there was the same noise, and each timethe Prince thought that it was some part of the carriage that had givenway. but it was only the breaking of the bands which bound the heart ofthe trusty Henry (who was also the faithful Henry), and who wasthenceforward free and happy.