In the old land of Brittany, once called Cornwall, there lived a womannamed Barbaik Bourhis, who spent all her days in looking after her farmwith the help of her niece Tephany. Early and late the two might beseen in the fields or in the dairy, milking cows, making butter, feedingfowls. working hard themselves and taking care that others worked too.Perhaps it might have been better for Barbaik if she had left herself alittle time to rest and to think about other things, for soon she grewto love money for its own sake, and only gave herself and Tephany thefood and clothes they absolutely needed. And as for poor people shepositively hated them, and declared that such lazy creatures had nobusiness in the world.Well, this being the sort of person Barbaik was, it is easy to guess ather anger when one day she found Tephany talking outside the cowhouse toyoung Denis, who was nothing more than a day labourer from the villageof Plover. Seizing her niece by the arm, she pulled her sharply away,exclaiming:'Are you not ashamed, girl, to waste your time over a man who is as pooras a rat, when there are a dozen more who would be only too happy to buyyou rings of silver, if you would let them?''Denis is a good workman, as you know very well,' answered Tephany, redwith anger, 'and he puts by money too, and soon he will be able to takea farm for himself.''Nonsense,' cried Barbaik, 'he will never save enough for a farm tillhe is a hundred. I would sooner see you in your grave than the wife of aman who carries his whole fortune on his back.''What does fortune matter when one is young and strong?' asked Tephany,but her aunt, amazed at such words, would hardly let her finish.'What does fortune matter?' repeated Barbaik, in a shocked voice. 'Is itpossible that you are really so foolish as to despise money? If this iswhat you learn from Denis, I forbid you to speak to him, and I will havehim turned out of the farm if he dares to show his face here again. Nowgo and wash the clothes and spread them out to dry.'Tephany did not dare to disobey, but with a heavy heart went down thepath to the river.'She is harder than these rocks,' said the girl to herself, 'yes, athousand times harder. For the rain at least can at last wear away thestone, but you might cry for ever, and she would never care. Talking toDenis is the only pleasure I have, and if I am not to see him I may aswell enter a convent.'Thinking these thoughts she reached the bank, and began to unfold thelarge packet of linen that had to be washed. The tap of a stick made herlook up, and standing before her she saw a little old woman, whose facewas strange to her.'You would like to sit down and rest, granny?' asked Tephany, pushingaside her bundle.'When the sky is all the roof you have, you rest where you will,'replied the old woman in trembling tones.'Are you so lonely, then?' inquired Tephany, full of pity. 'Have you nofriends who would welcome you into their houses?'The old woman shook her head.'They all died long, long ago,' she answered, 'and the only friends Ihave are strangers with kind hearts.'The girl did not speak for a moment, then held out the small loaf andsome bacon intended for her dinner.'Take this,' she said. 'to day at any rate you shall dine well,' and theold woman took it, gazing at Tephany the while.'Those who help others deserve to be helped,' she answered. 'your eyesare still red because that miser Barbaik has forbidden you to speak tothe young man from Plover. But cheer up, you are a good girl, and I willgive you something that will enable you to see him once every day.''You?' cried Tephany, stupefied at discovering that the beggar knew allabout her affairs, but the old woman did not hear her.'Take this long copper pin,' she went on, 'and every time you stick itin your dress Mother Bourhis will be obliged to leave the house in orderto go and count her cabbages. As long as the pin is in your dress youwill be free, and your aunt will not come back until you have put it inits case again.' Then, rising, she nodded to Tephany and vanished.The girl stood where she was, as still as a stone. If it had not beenfor the pin in her hands she would have thought she was dreaming. But bythat token she knew it was no common old woman who had given it to her,but a fairy, wise in telling what would happen in the days to come. Thensuddenly Tephany's eyes fell on the clothes, and to make up for losttime she began to wash them with great vigour.Next evening, at the moment when Denis was accustomed to wait for her inthe shadow of the cowhouse, Tephany stuck the pin in her dress, and atthe very same instant Barbaik took up her sabots or wooden shoes andwent through the orchard and past to the fields, to the plot where thecabbages grew. With a heart as light as her footsteps, the girl ran fromthe house, and spent her evening happily with Denis. And so it was formany days after that. Then, at last, Tephany began to notice something,and the something made her very sad.At first, Denis seemed to find the hours that they were together fly asquickly as she did, but when he had taught her all the songs he knew,and told her all the plans he had made for growing rich and a greatman, he had nothing more to say to her, for he, like a great many otherpeople, was fond of talking himself, but not of listening to any oneelse. Sometimes, indeed, he never came at all, and the next eveninghe would tell Tephany that he had been forced to go into the town onbusiness, but though she never reproached him she was not deceived andsaw plainly that he no longer cared for her as he used to do.Day by day her heart grew heavier and her cheeks paler, and one evening,when she had waited for him in vain, she put her water pot on hershoulder and went slowly down to the spring. On the path in front of herstood the fairy who had given her the pin, and as she glanced at Tephanyshe gave a little mischievous laugh and said:'Why, my pretty maiden hardly looks happier than she did before, inspite of meeting her lover whenever she pleases.''He has grown tired of me,' answered Tephany in a trembling voice, 'andhe makes excuses to stay away. Ah! granny dear, it is not enough to beable to see him, I must be able to amuse him and to keep him with me. Heis so clever, you know. Help me to be clever too.''Is that what you want?' cried the old woman. 'Well, take this featherand stick it in your hair, and you will be as wise as Solomon himself.'Blushing with pleasure Tephany went home and stuck the feather into theblue ribbon which girls always wear in that part of the country. Ina moment she heard Denis whistling gaily, and as her aunt was safelycounting her cabbages, she hurried out to meet him. The young man wasstruck dumb by her talk. There was nothing that she did not seem toknow, and as for songs she not only could sing those from every part ofBrittany, but could compose them herself. Was this really the quietgirl who had been so anxious to learn all he could teach her, or was itsomebody else? Perhaps she had gone suddenly mad, and there was an evilspirit inside her. But in any case, night after night he came back, onlyto find her growing wiser and wiser. Soon the neighbours whispered theirsurprise among themselves, for Tephany had not been able to resist thepleasure of putting the feather in her hair for some of the people whodespised her for her poor clothes, and many were the jokes she madeabout them. Of course they heard of her jests, and shook their headssaying:'She is an ill natured little cat, and the man that marries her willfind that it is she who will hold the reins and drive the horse.'It was not long before Denis began to agree with them, and as he alwaysliked to be master wherever he went, he became afraid of Tephany's sharptongue, and instead of laughing as before when she made fun of otherpeople he grew red and uncomfortable, thinking that his turn would comenext.So matters went on till one evening Denis told Tephany that he reallycould not stay a moment, as he had promised to go to a dance that was tobe held in the next village.Tephany's face fell. she had worked hard all day, and had been countingon a quiet hour with Denis. She did her best to persuade him to remainwith her, but he would not listen, and at last she grew angry.'Oh, I know why you are so anxious not to miss the dance,' she said. 'itis because Aziliez of Pennenru will be there.'Now Aziliez was the loveliest girl for miles round, and she and Denishad known each other from childhood.'Oh yes, Aziliez will be there,' answered Denis, who was quite pleasedto see her jealous, 'and naturally one would go a long way to watch herdance.''Go then!' cried Tephany, and entering the house she slammed the doorbehind her.Lonely and miserable she sat down by the fire and stared into the redembers. Then, flinging the feather from her hair, she put her head onher hands, and sobbed passionately.'What is the use of being clever when it is beauty that men want? Thatis what I ought to have asked for. But it is too late, Denis will nevercome back.''Since you wish it so much you shall have beauty,' said a voice at herside, and looking round she beheld the old woman leaning on her stick.'Fasten this necklace round your neck, and as long as you wear it youwill be the most beautiful woman in the world,' continued the fairy.With a little shriek of joy Tephany took the necklace, and snapping theclasp ran to the mirror which hung in the corner. Ah, this time she wasnot afraid of Aziliez or of any other girl, for surely none could be asfair and white as she. And with the sight of her face a thought cameto her, and putting on hastily her best dress and her buckled shoes shehurried off to the dance.On the way she met a beautiful carriage with a young man seated in it.'What a lovely maiden!' he exclaimed, as Tephany approached. 'Why, thereis not a girl in my own country that can be compared to her. She, and noother, shall be my bride.'The carriage was large and barred the narrow road, so Tephany wasforced, much against her will, to remain where she was. But she lookedthe young man full in the face as she answered:'Go your way, noble lord, and let me go mine. I am only a poor peasantgirl, accustomed to milk, and make hay and spin.''Peasant you may be, but I will make you a great lady,' said he, takingher hand and trying to lead her to the carriage.'I don't want to be a great lady, I only want to be the wife of Denis,'she replied, throwing off his hand and running to the ditch whichdivided the road from the cornfield, where he hoped to hide. Unluckilythe young man guessed what she was doing, and signed to his attendants,who seized her and put her in the coach. The door was banged, and thehorses whipped up into a gallop.At the end of an hour they arrived at a splendid castle, and Tephany,who would not move, was lifted out and carried into the hall, whilea priest was sent for to perform the marriage ceremony. The young mantried to win a smile from her by telling of all the beautiful things sheshould have as his wife, but Tephany did not listen to him, and lookedabout to see if there was any means by which she could escape. It didnot seem easy. The three great doors were closely barred, and the onethrough which she had entered shut with a spring, but her feather wasstill in her hair, and by its aid she detected a crack in the woodenpanelling, through which a streak of light could be dimly seen. Touchingthe copper pin which fastened her dress, the girl sent every one in thehall to count the cabbages, while she herself passed through the littledoor, not knowing whither she was going.By this time night had fallen, and Tephany was very tired. Thankfullyshe found herself at the gate of a convent, and asked if she might staythere till morning. But the portress answered roughly that it was noplace for beggars, and bade her begone, so the poor girl dragged herselfslowly along the road, till a light and the bark of a dog told her thatshe was near a farm.In front of the house was a group of people. two or three women andthe sons of the farmer. When their mother heard Tephany's request to begiven a bed the good wife's heart softened, and she was just going toinvite her inside, when the young men, whose heads were turned by thegirl's beauty, began to quarrel as to which should do most for her. Fromwords they came to blows, and the women, frightened at the disturbance,pelted Tephany with insulting names. She quickly ran down the nearestpath, hoping to escape them in the darkness of the trees, but in aninstant she heard their footsteps behind her. Wild with fear her legstrembled under her, when suddenly she bethought herself of her necklace.With a violent effort she burst the clasp and flung it round the neckof a pig which was grunting in a ditch, and as she did so she heard thefootsteps cease from pursuing her and run after the pig, for her charmhad vanished.On she went, scarcely knowing where she was going, till she foundherself, to her surprise and joy, close to her aunt's house. For severaldays she felt so tired and unhappy that she could hardly get through herwork, and to make matters worse Denis scarcely ever came near her.'He was too busy,' he said, 'and really it was only rich people whocould afford to waste time in talking.'As the days went on Tephany grew paler and paler, till everybody noticedit except her aunt. The water pot was almost too heavy for her now, butmorning and evening she carried it to the spring, though the effort tolift it to her shoulder was often too much for her.'How could I have been so foolish,' she whispered to herself, when shewent down as usual at sunset. 'It was not freedom to see Denis that Ishould have asked for, for he was soon weary of me, nor a quick tongue,for he was afraid of it, nor beauty, for that brought me nothing buttrouble, but riches which make life easy both for oneself and others.Ah! if I only dared to beg this gift from the fairy, I should be wiserthan before and know how to choose better.''Be satisfied,' said the voice of the old woman, who seemed to bestanding unseen at Tephany's elbow. 'If you look in your right handpocket when you go home you will find a small box. Rub your eyes withthe ointment it contains, and you will see that you yourself contain apriceless treasure.'Tephany did not in the least understand what she meant, but ran backto the farm as fast as she could, and began to fumble joyfully inher right hand pocket. Sure enough, there was the little box with theprecious ointment. She was in the act of rubbing her eyes with it whenBarbaik Bourhis entered the room. Ever since she had been obliged toleave her work and pass her time, she did not know why, in countingcabbages, everything had gone wrong, and she could not get a labourerto stay with her because of her bad temper. When, therefore, she saw herniece standing quietly before her mirror, Barbaik broke out:'So this is what you do when I am out in the fields! Ah! it is no wonderif the farm is ruined. Are you not ashamed, girl, to behave so?'Tephany tried to stammer some excuse, but her aunt was half mad withrage, and a box on the ears was her only answer. At this Tephany, hurt,bewildered and excited, could control herself no longer, and turningaway burst into tears. But what was her surprise when she saw that eachtear drop was a round and shining pearl. Barbaik, who also beheld thismarvel, uttered a cry of astonishment, and threw herself on her knees topick them up from the floor.She was still gathering them when the door opened and in came Denis.'Pearls! Are they really pearls?' he asked, falling on his knees also,and looking up at Tephany he perceived others still more beautifulrolling down the girl's cheeks.'Take care not to let any of the neighbours hear of it, Denis,' saidBarbaik. 'Of course you shall have your share, but nobody else shall geta single one. Cry on, my dear, cry on,' she continued to Tephany. Itis for your good as well as ours,' and she held out her apron to catchthem, and Denis his hat.But Tephany could hardly bear any more. She felt half choked at thesight of their greediness, and wanted to rush from the hall, and thoughBarbaik caught her arm to prevent this, and said all sorts of tenderwords which she thought would make the girl weep the more, Tephany witha violent effort forced back her tears, and wiped her eyes.'Is she finished already?' cried Barbaik, in a tone of disappointment.'Oh, try again, my dear. Do you think it would do any good to beat her alittle?' she added to Denis, who shook his head.'That is enough for the first time. I will go into the town and find outthe value of each pearl.''Then I will go with you,' said Barbaik, who never trusted anyone andwas afraid of being cheated. So the two went out, leaving Tephany behindthem.She sat quite still on her chair, her hands clasped tightly together,as if she was forcing something back. At last she raised her eyes, whichhad been fixed on the ground, and beheld the fairy standing in a darkcorner by the hearth, observing her with a mocking look. The girltrembled and jumped up, then, taking the feather, the pin, and the box,she held them out to the old woman.'Here they are, all of them,' she cried. 'they belong to you. Let menever see them again, but I have learned the lesson that they taught me.Others may have riches, beauty and wit, but as for me I desire nothingbut to be the poor peasant girl I always was, working hard for those sheloves.''Yes, you have learned your lesson,' answered the fairy, 'and now youshall lead a peaceful life and marry the man you love. For after all itwas not yourself you thought of but him.'Never again did Tephany see the old woman, but she forgave Denis forselling her tears, and in time he grew to be a good husband, who did hisown share of work.From 'Le Foyer Breton,' par E. Souvestre.