(31) From the Icelandic.There were once a King and a Queen, and they had a son called Sigurd,who was very strong and active, and good looking. When the King cameto be bowed down with the weight of years he spoke to his son, andsaid that now it was time for him to look out for a fitting match forhimself, for he did not know how long he might last now, and he wouldlike to see him married before he died.Sigurd was not averse to this, and asked his father where he thoughtit best to look for a wife. The King answered that in a certain countrythere was a King who had a beautiful daughter, and he thought it wouldbe most desirable if Sigurd could get her. So the two parted, and Sigurdprepared for the journey, and went to where his father had directed him.He came to the King and asked his daughter's hand, which he readilygranted him, but only on the condition that he should remain there aslong as he could, for the King himself was not strong and not very ableto govern his kingdom. Sigurd accepted this condition, but added thathe would have to get leave to go home again to his own country whenhe heard news of his father's death. After that Sigurd married thePrincess, and helped his father in law to govern the kingdom. He and thePrincess loved each other dearly, and after a year a son came to them,who was two years old when word came to Sigurd that his father was dead.Sigurd now prepared to return home with his wife and child, and went onboard ship to go by sea.They had sailed for several days, when the breeze suddenly fell, andthere came a dead calm, at a time when they needed only one day's voyageto reach home. Sigurd and his Queen were one day on deck, when most ofthe others on the ship had fallen asleep. There they sat and talked fora while, and had their little son along with them. After a time Sigurdbecame so heavy with sleep that he could no longer keep awake, so hewent below and lay down, leaving the Queen alone on the deck, playingwith her son.A good while after Sigurd had gone below the Queen saw something blackon the sea, which seemed to be coming nearer. As it approached shecould make out that it was a boat, and could see the figure of some onesitting in it and rowing it. At last the boat came alongside the ship,and now the Queen saw that it was a stone boat, out of which therecame up on board the ship a fearfully ugly Witch. The Queen was morefrightened than words can describe, and could neither speak a word normove from the place so as to awaken the King or the sailors. The Witchcame right up to the Queen, took the child from her and laid it on thedeck. then she took the Queen, and stripped her of all her fine clothes,which she proceeded to put on herself, and looked then like a humanbeing. Last of all she took the Queen, put her into the boat, and said 'This spell I lay upon you, that you slacken not your course until youcome to my brother in the Underworld.'The Queen sat stunned and motionless, but the boat at once shot awayfrom the ship with her, and before long she was out of sight.When the boat could no longer be seen the child began to cry, and thoughthe Witch tried to quiet it she could not manage it. so she went belowto where the King was sleeping with the child on her arm, and awakenedhim, scolding him for leaving them alone on deck, while he and all thecrew were asleep. It was great carelessness of him, she said, to leaveno one to watch the ship with her.Sigurd was greatly surprised to hear his Queen scold him so much, forshe had never said an angry word to him before. but he thought it wasquite excusable in this case, and tried to quiet the child along withher, but it was no use. Then he went and wakened the sailors, andbade them hoist the sails, for a breeze had sprung up and was blowingstraight towards the harbour.They soon reached the land which Sigurd was to rule over, and found allthe people sorrowful for the old King's death, but they became glad whenthey got Sigurd back to the Court, and made him King over them.The King's son, however, hardly ever stopped crying from the time hehad been taken from his mother on the deck of the ship, although he hadalways been such a good child before, so that at last the King had toget a nurse for him one of the maids of the Court. As soon as the childgot into her charge he stopped crying, and behaved well as before.After the sea voyage it seemed to the King that the Queen had alteredvery much in many ways, and not for the better. He thought her much morehaughty and stubborn and difficult to deal with than she used to be.Before long others began to notice this as well as the King. In theCourt there were two young fellows, one of eighteen years old, the otherof nineteen, who were very fond of playing chess, and often sat longinside playing at it. Their room was next the Queen's, and often duringthe day they heard the Queen talking.One day they paid more attention than usual when they heard her talk,and put their ears close to a crack in the wall between the rooms, andheard the Queen say quite plainly, 'When I yawn a little, then I am anice little maiden. when I yawn half way, then I am half a troll. andwhen I yawn fully, then I am a troll altogether.'As she said this she yawned tremendously, and in a moment had put onthe appearance of a fearfully ugly troll. Then there came up through thefloor of the room a three headed Giant with a trough full of meat, whosaluted her as his sister and set down the trough before her. She beganto eat out of it, and never stopped till she had finished it. The youngfellows saw all this going on, but did not hear the two of them sayanything to each other. They were astonished though at how greedily theQueen devoured the meat, and how much she ate of it, and were no longersurprised that she took so little when she sat at table with the King.As soon as she had finished it the Giant disappeared with the trough bythe same way as he had come, and the Queen returned to her human shape.Now we must go back to the King's son after he had been put in charge ofthe nurse. One evening, after she had lit a candle and was holding thechild, several planks sprang up in the floor of the room, and out at theopening came a beautiful woman dressed in white, with an iron belt roundher waist, to which was fastened an iron chain that went down into theground. The woman came up to the nurse, took the child from her,and pressed it to her breast. then she gave it back to the nurse andreturned by the same way as she had come, and the floor closed over heragain. Although the woman had not spoken a single word to her, the nursewas very much frightened, but told no one about it.Next evening the same thing happened again, just as before, but as thewoman was going away she said in a sad tone, 'Two are gone, and oneonly is left,' and then disappeared as before. The nurse was still morefrightened when she heard the woman say this, and thought that perhapssome danger was hanging over the child, though she had no ill opinion ofthe unknown woman, who, indeed, had behaved towards the child as if itwere her own. The most mysterious thing was the woman saying 'and onlyone is left.' but the nurse guessed that this must mean that only oneday was left, since she had come for two days already.At last the nurse made up her mind to go to the King, and told him thewhole story, and asked him to be present in person next day about thetime when the woman usually came. The King promised to do so, and cameto the nurse's room a little before the time, and sat down on a chairwith his drawn sword in his hand. Soon after the planks in the floorsprang up as before, and the woman came up, dressed in white, with theiron belt and chain. The King saw at once that it was his own Queen, andimmediately hewed asunder the iron chain that was fastened to the belt.This was followed by such noises and crashings down in the earth thatall the King's Palace shook, so that no one expected anything else thanto see every bit of it shaken to pieces. At last, however, the noisesand shaking stopped, and they began to come to themselves again.The King and Queen embraced each other, and she told him the wholestory how the Witch came to the ship when they were all asleep and senther off in the boat. After she had gone so far that she could not seethe ship, she sailed on through darkness until she landed beside athree headed Giant. The Giant wished her to marry him, but she refused.whereupon he shut her up by herself, and told her she would never getfree until she consented. After a time she began to plan how to get herfreedom, and at last told him that she would consent if he would allowher to visit her son on earth three days on end. This he agreed to, butput on her this iron belt and chain, the other end of which he fastenedround his own waist, and the great noises that were heard when the Kingcut the chain must have been caused by the Giant's falling down theunderground passage when the chain gave way so suddenly. The Giant'sdwelling, indeed, was right under the Palace, and the terrible shakingsmust have been caused by him in his death throes.The King now understood how the Queen he had had for some time past hadbeen so ill tempered. He at once had a sack drawn over her head and madeher be stoned to death, and after that torn in pieces by untamed horses.The two young fellows also told now what they had heard and seen in theQueen's room, for before this they had been afraid to say anything aboutit, on account of the Queen's power.The real Queen was now restored to all her dignity, and was beloved byall. The nurse was married to a nobleman, and the King and Queen gaveher splendid presents.