(28) From the Russian.Once upon a time there was a peasant whose wife died, leaving him withtwo children twins a boy and a girl. For some years the poor manlived on alone with the children, caring for them as best he could. buteverything in the house seemed to go wrong without a woman to look afterit, and at last he made up his mind to marry again, feeling that awife would bring peace and order to his household and take care of hismotherless children. So he married, and in the following years severalchildren were born to him. but peace and order did not come to thehousehold. For the step mother was very cruel to the twins, and beatthem, and half starved them, and constantly drove them out of the house.for her one idea was to get them out of the way. All day she thoughtof nothing but how she should get rid of them. and at last an evil ideacame into her head, and she determined to send them out into the greatgloomy wood where a wicked witch lived. And so one morning she spoke tothem, saying:'You have been such good children that I am going to send you to visitmy granny, who lives in a dear little hut in the wood. You will have towait upon her and serve her, but you will be well rewarded, for she willgive you the best of everything.'So the children left the house together. and the little sister, who wasvery wise for her years, said to the brother:'We will first go and see our own dear grandmother, and tell her whereour step mother is sending us.'And when the grandmother heard where they were going, she cried andsaid:'You poor motherless children! How I pity you. and yet I can do nothingto help you! Your step mother is not sending you to her granny, but toa wicked witch who lives in that great gloomy wood. Now listen to me,children. You must be civil and kind to everyone, and never say a crossword to anyone, and never touch a crumb belonging to anyone else. Whoknows if, after all, help may not be sent to you?'And she gave her grandchildren a bottle of milk and a piece of ham anda loaf of bread, and they set out for the great gloomy wood. When theyreached it they saw in front of them, in the thickest of the trees, aqueer little hut, and when they looked into it, there lay the witch,with her head on the threshold of the door, with one foot in one cornerand the other in the other corner, and her knees cocked up, almosttouching the ceiling.'Who's there?' she snarled, in an awful voice, when she saw thechildren.And they answered civilly, though they were so terrified that they hidbehind one another, and said:'Good morning, granny. our step mother has sent us to wait upon you, andserve you.''See that you do it well, then,' growled the witch. 'If I am pleasedwith you, I'll reward you. but if I am not, I'll put you in a pan andfry you in the oven that's what I'll do with you, my pretty dears! Youhave been gently reared, but you'll find my work hard enough. See if youdon't.'And, so saying, she set the girl down to spin yarn, and she gave the boya sieve in which to carry water from the well, and she herself wentout into the wood. Now, as the girl was sitting at her distaff, weepingbitterly because she could not spin, she heard the sound of hundredsof little feet, and from every hole and corner in the hut mice camepattering along the floor, squeaking and saying:'Little girl, why are your eyes so red?If you want help, then give us some bread.'And the girl gave them the bread that her grandmother had given her.Then the mice told her that the witch had a cat, and the cat was veryfond of ham. if she would give the cat her ham, it would show her theway out of the wood, and in the meantime they would spin the yarn forher. So the girl set out to look for the cat, and, as she was huntingabout, she met her brother, in great trouble because he could not carrywater from the well in a sieve, as it came pouring out as fast as heput it in. And as she was trying to comfort him they heard a rustling ofwings, and a flight of wrens alighted on the ground beside them. And thewrens said:'Give us some crumbs, then you need not grieve.For you'll find that water will stay in the sieve.'Then the twins crumbled their bread on the ground, and the wrens peckedit, and chirruped and chirped. And when they had eaten the last crumbthey told the boy to fill up the holes of the sieve with clay, and thento draw water from the well. So he did what they said, and carried thesieve full of water into the hut without spilling a drop. When theyentered the hut the cat was curled up on the floor. So they stroked her,and fed her with ham, and said to her:'Pussy, grey pussy, tell us how we are to get away from the witch?'Then the cat thanked them for the ham, and gave them apocket handkerchief and a comb, and told them that when the witchpursued them, as she certainly would, all they had to do was to throwthe handkerchief on the ground and run as fast as they could. As soon asthe handkerchief touched the ground a deep, broad river would spring up,which would hinder the witch's progress. If she managed to get acrossit, they must throw the comb behind them and run for their lives, forwhere the comb fell a dense forest would start up, which would delay thewitch so long that they would be able to get safely away.The cat had scarcely finished speaking when the witch returned to see ifthe children had fulfilled their tasks.'Well, you have done well enough for to day,' she grumbled. 'butto morrow you'll have something more difficult to do, and if you don'tdo it well, you pampered brats, straight into the oven you go.'Half dead with fright, and trembling in every limb, the poor childrenlay down to sleep on a heap of straw in the corner of the hut. but theydared not close their eyes, and scarcely ventured to breathe. In themorning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave beforenight, and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips. Then the witch leftthem to their tasks, and went out into the wood. As soon as she hadgone out of sight the children took the comb and the handkerchief, and,taking one another by the hand, they started and ran, and ran, and ran.And first they met the watch dog, who was going to leap on them and tearthem to pieces. but they threw the remains of their bread to him, andhe ate them and wagged his tail. Then they were hindered by thebirch trees, whose branches almost put their eyes out. But the littlesister tied the twigs together with a piece of ribbon, and they got pastsafely, and, after running through the wood, came out on to the openfields.In the meantime in the hut the cat was busy weaving the linen andtangling the threads as it wove. And the witch returned to see how thechildren were getting on. and she crept up to the window, and whispered:'Are you weaving, my little dear?''Yes, granny, I am weaving,' answered the cat.When the witch saw that the children had escaped her, she was furious,and, hitting the cat with a porringer, she said: 'Why did you let thechildren leave the hut? Why did you not scratch their eyes out?'But the cat curled up its tail and put its back up, and answered: 'Ihave served you all these years and you never even threw me a bone, butthe dear children gave me their own piece of ham.'Then the witch was furious with the watch dog and with the birch trees,because they had let the children pass. But the dog answered:'I have served you all these years and you never gave me so much as ahard crust, but the dear children gave me their own loaf of bread.'And the birch rustled its leaves, and said: 'I have served you longerthan I can say, and you never tied a bit of twine even round mybranches. and the dear children bound them up with their brightestribbons.'So the witch saw there was no help to be got from her old servants, andthat the best thing she could do was to mount on her broom and set offin pursuit of the children. And as the children ran they heard the soundof the broom sweeping the ground close behind them, so instantly theythrew the handkerchief down over their shoulder, and in a moment a deep,broad river flowed behind them.When the witch came up to it, it took her a long time before she found aplace which she could ford over on her broom stick. but at last she gotacross, and continued the chase faster than before. And as the childrenran they heard a sound, and the little sister put her ear to the ground,and heard the broom sweeping the earth close behind them. so, quick asthought, she threw the comb down on the ground, and in an instant,as the cat had said, a dense forest sprung up, in which the roots andbranches were so closely intertwined, that it was impossible to force away through it. So when the witch came up to it on her broom she foundthat there was nothing for it but to turn round and go back to her hut.But the twins ran straight on till they reached their own home. Thenthey told their father all that they had suffered, and he was so angrywith their step mother that he drove her out of the house, and never lether return. but he and the children lived happily together. and he tookcare of them himself, and never let a stranger come near them.