The Portunes   which, according to Gervase, belonged exclusively to England, (although France had her Neptunes of a somewhat similar character)   resembled the ancient household Spirit of Northern Europe. They joined in the harder labour of the house. and, as their only reward, claimed a share of the warmth from the evening hearth   at which they would appear as soon as the doors were shut, warming their aged limbs, and eating, meanwhile, little frogs ( ranunculos ), which they drew from their bosoms and toasted on the embers.In the same manner, the Pixies of Dartmoor, notwithstanding their darker character, aided occasionally in household work. A cottage at Belstone, near Oakhampton, is pointed out as having been a favourite scene of their labours. It was common to find great additions made to the "web" of cloth, morning after morning. and the Pixies were frequently heard working at the loom all through the night. Plates of honey and cream, but especially a basin of pure water, must be regularly placed for them in such houses as they frequent. and it is not safe to add a more valuable reward.A washerwoman was one morning greatly surprised on coming down stairs to find all her clothes neatly washed and folded. She watched the next evening, and observed a Pixy in the act of performing this kind office for her. but she was ragged and mean in appearance, and Betty's gratitude was sufficiently great to induce her to prepare a yellow petticoat and a red cap for the obliging Pixy. She placed them, accordingly, by the side of the basin of water. and watched for the result. The Pixy, after putting them on, disappeared through the window, apparently in great delight. But Betty was ever afterwards obliged to wash all her clothes herself.At another farm on the borders of the moor, the inhabitants were disturbed at dead of night by the loud noise of a flail at work in the barn. and in the morning a quantity of corn, which had been left in ear, was found threshed. On the ensuing night, watch was kept by the farmer, who perceived six "sprites," of the smallest imaginable size, enter the barn, and perform the same kind office as before. Their dress, however, was ragged and dirty   and the farmer had better clothes prepared for them, which he placed where they might readily find them.In the meantime, he told his neighbours of his good luck   who, less kind hearted than himself, stationed themselves in the barn with their guns, behind some unthreshed corn. They had not watched long when the Pixies entered. and, delighted with their new clothes, commenced their usual dance all song   in the midst of which the farmers who were in watch fired on them.But they were to be harmed by no weapon of "middle earth," and they departed for ever, singing as they went:Now the pixies' work is done,We take our clothes and off we run.