There was once a very learned man in the north country who knew all thelanguages under the sun, and who was acquainted with all the mysteries ofcreation. He had one big book bound in black calf and clasped with iron,and with iron corners, and chained to a table which was made fast to thefloor. and when he read out of this book, he unlocked it with an iron key,and none but he read from it, for it contained all the secrets of thespiritual world. It told how many angels there were in heaven, and nowthey marched in their ranks, and sang in their quires, and what were theirseveral functions, and what was the name of each great angel of might. Andit told of the devils of hell, how many of them there were, and what weretheir several powers, and their labors, and their names, and how theymight be summoned, and how tasks might be imposed on them, and how theymight be chained to be as slaves to man.Now the master had a pupil who was but a foolish lad, and he acted asservant to the great master, but never was he suffered to look into theblack book, hardly to enter the private room. One day the master was out,and then the lad, impelled by curiosity, hurried to the chamber where hismaster kept his wondrous apparatus for changing copper into gold, and leadinto silver, and where was his mirror in which he could see all that waspassing in the world, and where was the shell which when held to the earwhispered all the words that were being spoken by anyone the masterdesired to know about. The lad tried in vain with the crucibles to turncopper and lead into gold and silver   he looked long and vainly into themirror. smoke and clouds fleeted over it, but he saw nothing plain, andthe shell to his ear produced only indistinct mutterings, like thebreaking of distant seas on an unknown shore."I can do nothing," he said, "as I know not the right words to utter, andthey are locked up in yon book."He looked round, and, see! the book was unfastened. the master hadforgotten to lock it before he went out. The boy rushed to it, andunclosed the volume. It was written with red and black ink, and muchtherein he could not understand. but he put his finger on a line, andspelled it through.At once the room was darkened, and the house trembled. a clap of thunderrolled through the passage of the old mansion, and there stood before theterrified youth a horrible form, breathing fire, and with eyes likeburning lamps. It was the Evil One, Beelzebub, whom he had called up toserve him."Set me a task!" said a voice, like the roaring of an iron furnace.The boy only trembled, and his hair stood up."Set me a task, or I shall strangle thee!"But the lad could not speak. Then the evil spirit stepped towards him, andputting forth his hands touched his throat. The fingers burned his flesh."Set me a task.""Water yon flower," cried the boy in despair, pointing to a geranium whichstood in a pot on the floor.Instantly the spirit left the room, but in another instant he returnedwith a barrel on his back, and poured its contents over the flower. andagain and again he went and came, and poured more and more water, till thefloor of the room was ankle deep."Enough, enough!" gasped the lad. but the Evil One heeded him not. the ladknew not the words by which to dismiss him, and still he fetched water.It rose to the boy's knees, and still more water was poured. It mounted tohis waist, and Beelzebub ceased not bringing barrels full. It rose to hisarmpits, and he scrambled to the tabletop. And now the water stood up tothe window and washed against the glass, and swirled around his feet onthe table. It still rose. it reached his breast. In vain he cried. theevil spirit would not be dismissed, and to this day he would have beenpouring water, and would have drowned all Yorkshire, had not the masterremembered on his journey that he had not locked his book, and hadtherefore returned, and at the moment when the water was bubbling aboutthe pupil's chin, spoken the words which cast Beelzebub back into hisfiery home.