Once upon a time in a distant kingdom there was a simple peasant lad who herded swine in a forest next to the king's castle. One of his pigs was smarter than all the rest, and the swineherd taught him how to stand on his hind legs and dance. A swineherd does get lonely, as you must know, alone in the woods with only his animals for company, and he must have been very pleased with himself that he had taught a pig to dance.One warm summer's day the princess was out walking in the shady woods, and she came upon the swineherd, just as his pig had finished dancing a jig. "Oh, please make him dance once again," asked the princess, ever so courteously, for she had never before seen a pig dance."Only if you will lift your skirts to your knees," answered the swineherd.The princess could see no harm in this, so she lifted her skirts to her knees, and sure enough, the swineherd's pig danced a merry jig."That was too short," said the princess. "Can't he dance some more?""Only if you lift your skirts to your waist," said the swineherd.The princess hesitated, but again she could see no harm in his request, so she lifted her skirts to her waist, and the pig danced another merry jig. She still had not had enough and asked, again ever so politely, if the pig couldn't dance just one more time. It was such a cheerful thing to see!"Only if you lift your skirts to your neck," said the swineherd."To my neck?" she asked."To your neck!" he replied. Now not even a princess can see a dancing pig every day, so she lifted her skirts to her neck, and the swineherd's pig danced his very best.Some time later the king decided that it was time for the princess to marry, and because she was the most beautiful maiden in all the land, suitors came from near and far. The king could not choose from the many princes and noblemen who came courting his daughter. Finally he decreed that to win the princess's hand in marriage a suitor would have to describe her secret birthmark. You see, from the day the princess was born she had had a birthmark on her belly, a dainty little spot from which grew three fine golden hairs.The swineherd soon learned of the proclamation, and went to the castle at once, because, of course, he had seen the mark with the three golden hairs on the day that the princess had lifted her skirts in order to make his pig dance.Now a king's word is a king's word, and even though he did not relish giving his daughter to a simple swineherd, he had to do as he had promised. After all, the swineherd was able to describe the birthmark ever so correctly, down to the last golden hair.But the story is not yet done, for one of the princes who had come to court the princess offered the princess's lady in waiting a bag of gold if she would just describe to him her mistress's birthmark. The faithless servant took the gold and told the unworthy prince what he wanted to know.When the deceitful prince presented himself to the king and described the princess's birthmark ever so accurately, the king, at first, did not know what to do. But then he struck upon a plan."Let the princess decide herself!" he proclaimed. She and the two suitors shall spend the night together in the princess's bed. At sunrise I will look in on them, and the one she is facing shall be her husband.When the swineherd learned of the king's decree, he made plans for the night. First he put a large clump of chocolate (some say that it was marzipan) into his pocket. Then he secretly dropped an herb into the false prince's evening soup, an herb that would summon nature's call quickly and surely.That night the swineherd, the deceitful prince, and the beautiful princess all lay down in her large bed. the king locked the door behind them. and they closed their eyes. Then suddenly the false prince jumped up with a start and ran to the door, but it was locked."I have to also!" said the swineherd, jumping out of bed."What can we do? We're locked in!" cried the prince."We'll have to do it on the floor." said the swineherd. Then each man deposited something on the floor: the swineherd his clump of chocolate, and the prince  , well, some things are better left unsaid."Now we are in trouble!" said the swineherd. "When the king discovers what we've done, he'll have us killed!""What can we do?" asked the terrified prince."We've no choice," answered the swineherd. "We'll have to eat it."Thus the swineherd ate his clump of chocolate, and the false prince ate   , well, again, some things are better left unsaid.They returned to the sleeping princess's bed, one on one side of her and one on the other. With time the princess turned toward the prince and breathed in deeply, but then she gasped and quickly turned the other way. At sunrise the king looked in on them and found the princess contentedly asleep with her face nearly touching that of the swineherd.And that is how a simple swineherd came to marry a princess.