On the shore of Smerwick harbor, one fine summer's morning, just atdaybreak, stood Dick Fitzgerald "shoghing the dudeen," which may betranslated, smoking his pipe. The sun was gradually rising behind thelofty Brandon, the dark sea was getting green in the light, and the mistsclearing away out of the valleys went rolling and curling like the smokefrom the corner of Dick's mouth."'Tis just the pattern of a pretty morning," said Dick, taking the pipefrom between his lips, and looking towards the distant ocean, which lay asstill and tranquil as a tomb of polished marble. "Well, to be sure,"continued he, after a pause, "'tis mighty lonesome to be talking to one'sself by way of company, and not to have another soul to answer one  nothing but the child of one's own voice, the echo! I know this, that if Ihad the luck, or maybe the misfortune," said Dick, with a melancholysmile, "to have the woman, it would not be this way with me! And what inthe wide world is a man without a wife? He's no more, surely, than abottle without a drop of drink in it, or dancing without music, or theleft leg of a scissors, or a fishing line without a hook, or any othermatter that is no ways complete. Is it not so?" said Dick Fitzgerald,casting his eyes towards a rock upon the strand, which, though it couldnot speak, stood up as firm and looked as bold as ever Kerry witness did.But what was his astonishment at beholding, just at the foot of that rock,a beautiful young creature combing her hair, which was of a sea greencolor. and now the salt water shining on it, appeared, in the morninglight, like melted butter upon cabbage.Dick guessed at once that she was a merrow, although he had never seen onebefore, for he spied the cohuleen druith , or little enchanted cap,which the sea people use for diving down into the ocean, lying upon thestrand near her. and he had heard that if once he could possess himself ofthe cap, she would lose the power of going away into the water. so heseized it with all speed, and she, hearing the noise, turned her headabout as natural as any Christian.When the merrow saw that her little diving cap was gone, the salt tears  doubly salt, no doubt, from her   came trickling down her cheeks, and shebegan a low mournful cry with just the tender voice of a newborn infant.Dick, although he knew well enough what she was crying for, determined tokeep the cohuleen druith , let her cry never so much, to see whatluck would come out of it. Yet he could not help pitying her. and when thedumb thing looked up in his face, and her cheeks all moist with tears,'twas enough to make anyone feel, let alone Dick, who had ever and always,like most of his countrymen, a mighty tender heart of his own."Don't cry, my darling," said Dick Fitzgerald. but the merrow, like anybold child, only cried the more for that.Dick sat himself down by her side, and took hold of her hand, by way ofcomforting her. 'Twas in no particular an ugly hand, only there was asmall web between the fingers, as there is in a duck's foot. but 'twas asthin and as white as the skin between egg and shell."What's your name, my darling?" says Dick, thinking to make her conversantwith him. but he got no answer. and he was certain sure now, either thatshe could not speak, or did not understand him. He therefore squeezed herhand in his, as the only way he had of talking to her. It's the universallanguage. and there's not a woman in the world, be she fish or lady, thatdoes not understand it.The merrow did not seem much displeased at this mode of conversation. and,making an end of her whining all at once, "Man," says she, looking up inDick Fitzgerald's face, "Man, will you eat me?""By all the red petticoats and check aprons between Dingle and Tralee,"cried Dick, jumping up in amazement, "I'd as soon eat myself, my jewel! Isit I eat you, my pet? Now, 'twas some ugly ill looking thief of a fish putthat notion into your own pretty head, with the nice green hair down uponit, that is so cleanly combed out this morning!""Man," said the merrow, "what will you do with me, if you won't eat me?"Dick's thoughts were running on a wife. He saw, at the first glimpse, thatshe was handsome. but since she spoke, and spoke too like any real woman,he was fairly in love with her. 'Twas the neat way she called him "man"that settled the matter entirely."Fish," says Dick, trying to speak to her after her own short fashion."Fish," says he, "here's my word, fresh and fasting, for you this blessedmorning, that I'll make you Mistress Fitzgerald before all the world, andthat's what I'll do.""Never say the word twice." says she. "I'm ready and willing to be yours,Mister Fitzgerald. but stop, if you please, 'till I twist up my hair."It was some time before she had settled it entirely to her liking, for sheguessed, I suppose, that she was going among strangers, where she would belooked at. When that was done, the merrow put the comb in her pocket, andthen bent down her head and whispered some words to the water that wasclose to the foot of the rock.Dick saw the murmur of the words upon the top of the sea, going outtowards the wide ocean, just like a breath of wind rippling along, and,says he, in the greatest wonder, "Is it speaking you are, my darling, tothe saltwater?""It's nothing else," says she, quite carelessly, "I'm just sending wordhome to my father, not to be waiting breakfast for me, just to keep himfrom being uneasy in his mind.""And who's your father, my duck?" says Dick."What!" said the merrow, "Did you never hear of my father? He's the kingof the waves, to be sure!""And yourself, then, is a real king's daughter?" said Dick, opening histwo eyes to take a full and true survey of his wife that was to be. "Oh,I'm nothing else but a made man with you, and a king your father. To besure he has all the money that's down in the bottom of the sea!""Money," repeated the merrow, "what's money?""'Tis no bad thing to have when one wants it," replied Dick. "and maybenow the fishes have the understanding to bring up whatever you bid them?""Oh! yes," said the merrow, "they bring me what I want.""To speak the truth," said Dick, "'tis a straw bed I have at home beforeyou, and that, I'm thinking, is no ways fitting for a king's daughter. soif 'twould not be displeasing to you, just to mention, a nice featherbed,with a pair of new blankets   but what am I talking about? Maybe you havenot such things as beds down under the water?""By all means," said she, "Mr. Fitzgerald   plenty of beds at yourservice. I've fourteen oyster beds of my own, not to mention one justplanting for the rearing of young ones.""You have," says Dick, scratching his head and looking a little puzzled."'Tis a featherbed I was speaking of, but clearly, yours is the very cutof a decent plan, to have bed and supper so handy to each other, that aperson, when they'd have the one, need never ask for the other."However, bed or no bed, money or no money, Dick Fitzgerald determined tomarry the merrow, and the merrow had given her consent. Away they went,therefore, across the strand, from Gollerus to Ballinrunnig, where FatherFitzgibbon happened to be that morning."There are two words to this bargain, Dick Fitzgerald," said hisReverence, looking mighty glum. "And is it a fishy woman you'd marry? TheLord preserve us! Send the scaly creature home to her own people, that'smy advice to you, wherever she came from."Dick had the cohuleen druith in his hand, and was about to give itback to the merrow, who looked covetously at it, but he thought for amoment, and then, says he, "Please your Reverence, she's a king'sdaughter.""If she was the daughter of fifty kings," said Father Fitzgibbon, "I tellyou, you can't marry her, she being a fish.""Please your Reverence," said Dick again, in an undertone, "she is as mildand as beautiful as the moon.""If she was as mild and as beautiful as the sun, moon, and stars, all puttogether, I tell you, Dick Fitzgerald," said the priest, stamping hisright foot, "you can't marry her, she being a fish!""But she has all the gold that's down in the sea only for the asking, andI'm a made man if I marry her. and," said Dick, looking up slyly, "I canmake it worth any one's while to do the job.""Oh! That alters the case entirely," replied the priest. "Why there's somereason now in what you say. Why didn't you tell me this before? Marry herby all means, if she was ten times a fish. Money, you know, is not to berefused in these bad times, and I may as well have the hansel of it asanother, that maybe would not take half the pains in counseling you as Ihave done."So Father Fitzgibbon married Dick Fitzgerald to the merrow, and like anyloving couple, they returned to Gollerus well pleased with each other.Everything prospered with Dick. He was at the sunny side of the world. themerrow made the best of wives, and they lived together in the greatestcontentment.It was wonderful to see, considering where she had been brought up, howshe would busy herself about the house, and how well she nursed thechildren. for, at the end of three years, there were as many youngFitzgeralds   two boys and a girl.In short, Dick was a happy man, and so he might have continued to the endof his days, if he had only the sense to take proper care of what he hadgot. Many another man, however, beside Dick, has not had wit enough to dothat.One day when Dick was obliged to go to Tralee, he left the wife mindingthe children at home after him, and thinking she had plenty to do withoutdisturbing his fishing tackle.Dick was no sooner gone than Mrs. Fitzgerald set about cleaning up thehouse, and chancing to pull down a fishing net, what should she findbehind it in a hole in the wall but her own cohuleen druith.She took it out and looked at it, and then she thought of her father theking, and her mother the queen, and her brothers and sisters, and she felta longing to go back to them.She sat down on a little stool and thought over the happy days she hadspent under the sea. then she looked at her children, and thought on thelove and affection of poor Dick, and how it would break his heart to loseher. "But," says she, "he won't lose me entirely, for I'll come back tohim again, and who can blame me for going to see my father and my motherafter being so long away from them?"She got up and went towards the door, but came back again to look oncemore at the child that was sleeping in the cradle. She kissed it gently,and as she kissed it a tear trembled for an instant in her eye and thenfell on its rosy cheek. She wiped away the tear, and turning to the eldestlittle girl, told her to take good care of her brothers, and to be a goodchild herself until she came back.The merrow then went down to the strand. The sea was lying calm andsmooth, just heaving and glittering in the sun, and she thought she hearda faint sweet singing, inviting her to come down. All her old ideas andfeelings came flooding over her mind. Dick and her children were at theinstant forgotten, and placing the cohuleen druith on her head,she plunged in.Dick came home in the evening, and missing his wife, he asked Kathelin,his little girl, what had become of her mother, but she could not tellhim. He then enquired of the neighbors, and he learned that she was seengoing towards the strand with a strange looking thing like a cocked hat inher hand. He returned to his cabin to search for the cohuleen druith. Itwas gone, and the truth now flashed upon him.Year after year did Dick Fitzgerald wait, expecting the return of hiswife, but he never saw her more. Dick never married again, always thinkingthat the merrow would sooner or later return to him, and nothing couldever persuade him but that her father the king kept her below by mainforce. "for," said Dick, "she surely would not of herself give up herhusband and her children."While she was with him, she was so good a wife in every respect, that tothis day she is spoken of in the tradition of the country as the patternfor one, under the name of the Lady of Gollerus.