It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that there was a Fisherman well stricken in years who had a wife and three children, andwithal was of poor condition. Now it was his custom to cast hisnet every day four times, and no more. On a day he went forthabout noontide to the sea shore, where he laid down his basket.and, tucking up his shirt and plunging into the water, made acast with his net and waited till it settled to the bottom. Thenhe gathered the cords together and haled away at it, but found itweighty. and however much he drew it landwards, he could not pullit up. so he carried the ends ashore and drove a stake into theground and made the net fast to it. Then he stripped and divedinto the water all about the net, and left not off working harduntil he had brought it up. He rejoiced thereat and, donning hisclothes, went to the net, when he found in it a dead jackasswhich had torn the meshes. Now when he saw it, he exclaimed inhis grief, "There is no Majesty, and there is no Might save inAllah the Glorious, the Great!" Then quoth he, "This is a strangemanner of daily bread." and he began re citing in extemporeverse: O toiler through the glooms of night in peril and in pain Thytoiling stint for daily bread comes not by might and main!Seest thou not the fisher seek afloat upon the sea His bread,while glimmer stars of night as set in tangled skein.Anon he plungeth in despite the buffet of the waves The whileto sight the bellying net his eager glances strain.Till joying at the night's success, a fish he bringeth homeWhose gullet by the hook of Fate was caught and cut intwain.When buys that fish of him a man who spent the hours of nightReckless of cold and wet and gloom in ease and comfort fain,Laud to the Lord who gives to this, to that denies his wishesAnd dooms one toil and catch the prey and other eat thefishes.Then quoth he, "Up and to it. I am sure of His beneficence,Inshallah!" So he continued: When thou art seized of Evil Fate, assume The noble soul's longsuffering: 'tis thy best:Complain not to the creature. this be plaint From one mostRuthful to the ruthlessest.The Fisherman, when he had looked at the dead ass, got it free ofthe toils and wrung out and spread his net. then he plunged intothe sea, saying, "In Allah's name!" and made a cast and pulled atit, but it grew heavy and settled down more firmly than the firsttime. Now he thought that there were fish in it, and he made itfast, and doffing his clothes went into the water, and dived andhaled until he drew it up upon dry land. Then found he in it alarge earthen pitcher which was full of sand and mud. and seeingthis he was greatly troubled and began repeating theseverses: Forbear, O troubles of the world, And pardon an ye nillforbear:I went to seek my daily bread I find that breadless I mustfare:For neither handcraft brings me aught Nor Fate allots to me ashare:How many fools the Pleiads reach While darkness whelms thewise and ware.So he prayed pardon of Allah and, throwing away the jar, wrunghis net and cleansed it and returned to the sea the third time tocast his net and waited till it had sunk. Then he pulled at itand found therein potsherds and broken glass. whereupon he beganto speak these verses: He is to thee that daily bread thou canst nor loose nor bindNor pen nor writ avail thee aught thy daily bread to find:For joy and daily bread are what Fate deigneth to allow. Thissoil is sad and sterile ground, while that makes glad thehind.The shafts of Time and Life bear down full many a man of worthWhile bearing up to high degree wights of ignoble mind.So come thou, Death! for verily life is not worth a straw Whenlow the falcon falls withal the mallard wings the wind:No wonder 'tis thou seest how the great of soul and mind Arepoor, and many a loser carle to height of luck designed.This bird shall overfly the world from east to furthest westAnd that shall win her every wish though ne'er she leave thenest.Then raising his eyes heavenwards he said, "O my God!verily Thou wottest that I cast not my net each day save fourtimes. the third is done and as yet Thou hast vouchsafedme nothing. So this time, O my God, deign give me my dailybread." Then, having called on Allah's name, he againthrew his net and waited its sinking and settling. whereupon hehaled at it but could not draw it in for that it was entangled atthe bottom. He cried out in his vexation "There is no Majesty andthere is no Might save in Allah!" and he began reciting: Fie on this wretched world, an so it be I must be whelmed bygrief and misery:Tho' gladsome be man's lot when dawns the morn He drains thecup of woe ere eve he see:Yet was I one of whom the world when asked "Whose lot ishappiest?" oft would say "'Tis he!"Thereupon he stripped and, diving down to the net, busied himself with it till it came to land. Then he opened the meshes andfound therein a cucumber shaped jar of yellow copper,evidently full of something, whose mouth was made fast with aleaden cap, stamped with the seal ring of our Lord Sulayman sonof David (Allah accept the twain!). Seeing this the Fishermanrejoiced and said, "If I sell it in the brass bazar 'tis worthten golden diners." He shook it and finding it heavy continued,"Would to Heaven I knew what is herein. But I must and will openit and look to its contents and store it in my bag and sell it inthe brass market." And taking out a knife he worked at the leadtill he had loosened it from the jar. then he laid the cup on theground and shook the vase to pour out whatever might be inside.He found nothing in it. whereat he marvelled with an exceedingmarvel. But presently there came forth from the jar a smoke whichspired heavenwards into aether (whereat he again marvelled withmighty marvel), and which trailed along earth's surface tillpresently, having reached its full height, the thick vapourcondensed, and became an Ifrit, huge of bulk, whose crest touchedthe clouds while his feet were on the ground. His head was as adome, his hands like pitchforks, his legs long as masts and hismouth big as a cave. his teeth were like large stones, hisnostrils ewers, his eyes two lamps and his look was fierce andlowering. Now when the Fisherman saw the Ifrit his side musclesquivered, his teeth chattered, his spittle dried up and he becameblind about what to do. Upon this the Ifrit looked at him andcried, "There is no god but the God, and Sulayman is the prophetof God." presently adding, "O Apostle of Allah, slay me not.never again will I gainsay thee in word nor sin against thee indeed." diddest thousay, Sulayman the Apostle of Allah. and Sulayman is dead somethou sand and eight hundred years ago, and we are now inthe last days of the world! What is thy story, and what is thyaccount of thyself, and what is the cause of thy entering intothis cucur bit?" Now when the Evil Spirit heard the words of theFisher man, quoth he. "There is no god but the God: be of goodcheer, O Fisherman!" Quoth the Fisherman, "Why biddest thou me tobe of good cheer?" and he replied, "Because of thy having to diean ill death in this very hour." Said the Fisherman, "Thoudeservest for thy good tidings the withdrawal of Heaven'sprotection, O thou distant one! Wherefore shouldest thou killme and what thing have I done to deserve death, I who freed theefrom the jar, and saved thee from the depths of the sea, andbrought thee up on the dry land?" Replied the Ifrit, "Ask of meonly what mode of death thou wilt die, and by what manner ofslaughter shall I slay thee." Rejoined the Fisherman, "What is mycrime and wherefore such retribution?" Quoth the Ifrit, "Hear mystory, O Fisherman!" and he answered, "Say on, and be brief inthy saying, for of very sooth my life breath is in mynostrils." Thereupon quoth the Jinni, "Know, that I am oneamong the heretical Jann and I sinned against Sulayman, David son(on the twain be peace!) I together with the famous Sakhr alJinni." whereupon the Prophet sent his minister, Asaf sonof Barkhiya, to seize me. and this Wazir brought me against mywill and led me in bonds to him (I being downcast despite mynose) and he placed me standing before him like a suppliant. WhenSulayman saw me, he took refuge with Allah and bade me embracethe True Faith and obey his behests. but I refused, so sendingfor this cucurbit he shut me up therein, and stopped itover with lead whereon he impressed the Most High Name, and gavehis orders to the Jann who carried me off, and cast me into themidmost of the ocean. There I abode an hundred years, duringwhich I said in my heart, "Whoso shall release me, him will Ienrich for ever and ever." But the full century went by and, whenno one set me free, I entered upon the second five score saying,"Whoso shall release me, for him I will open the hoards of theearth." Still no one set me free and thus four hundred yearspassed away. Then quoth I, "Whoso shall release me, for him willI fulfil three wishes." Yet no one set me free. Thereupon I waxedwroth with exceeding wrath and said to myself, "Whoso shallrelease me from this time forth, him will I slay and I will givehim choice of what death he will die. and now, as thou hastreleased me, I give thee full choice of deaths." The Fisherman,hearing the words of the Ifrit, said, "O Allah! the wonder of itthat I have not come to free thee save in these days!" adding,"Spare my life, so Allah spare thine. and slay me not, lest Allahset one to slay thee." Replied the Contumacious One, "There is nohelp for it. die thou must. so ask me by way of boon what mannerof death thou wilt die." Albeit thus certified the Fishermanagain addressed the Ifrit saying, "Forgive me this my death as agenerous reward for having freed thee." and the Ifrit, "Surely Iwould not slay thee save on account of that same release." "OChief of the Ifrits," said the Fisherman, "I do thee good andthou requitest me with evil! in very sooth the old saw lieth notwhen it saith: We wrought them weal, they met our weal with ill. Such, by mylife! is every bad man's labour:To him who benefits unworthy wights Shall hap what inapt toUmmi Amir's neighbor."Now when the Ifrit heard these words he answered, "No more ofthis talk, needs must I kill thee." Upon this the Fisherman saidto himself, "This is a Jinni. and I am a man to whom Allah hathgiven a passably cunning wit, so I will now cast about to compass his destruction by my contrivance and by mine intelligence.even as he took counsel only of his malice and hisfrowardness." He began by asking the Ifrit, "Hast thouindeed resolved to kill me?" and, receiving for all answer, "Evenso," he cried, "Now in the Most Great Name, graven on the sealring of Sulayman the Son of David (peace be with the holytwain!), an I question thee on a certain matter wilt thou give mea true answer?" The Ifrit replied "Yea." but, hearing mention ofthe Most Great Name, his wits were troubled and he said withtrembling, "Ask and be brief." Quoth the Fisherman, "How didstthou fit into this bottle which would not hold thy hand. no, noreven thy foot, and how came it to be large enough to contain thewhole of thee?" Replied the Ifrit, "What! cost not believe that Iwas all there?" and the Fisherman rejoined, "Nay! I will neverbelieve it until I see thee inside with my own eyes." AndShahrazad per ceived the dawn of day and ceased to say herpermitted say.When it was the Fourth Night,Her sister said to her, "Please finish us this tale, an thou benot sleepy!" so she resumed: It hath reached me, O auspiciousKing, that when the Fisherman said to the Ifrit, "I will neverand nowise believe thee until I see thee inside it with mine owneyes." the Evil Spirit on the instant shook and became avapour, which condensed, and entered the jar little and little,till all was well inside when lo! the Fisherman in hot haste tookthe leaden cap with the seal and stoppered therewith the mouth ofthe jar and called out to the Ifrit, saying, "Ask me by way ofboon what death thou wilt die! By Allah, I will throw thee intothe sea be fore us and here will I build me a lodge. andwhoso cometh hither I will warn him against fishing and willsay: In these waters abideth an Ifrit who giveth as a lastfavour a choice of deaths and fashion of slaughter to the man whosaveth him!" Now when the Ifrit heard this from the Fisherman andsaw him self in limbo, he was minded to escape, but this wasprevented by Solomon's seal. so he knew that the Fisherman hadcozened and outwitted him, and he waxed lowly and submissive andbegan humbly to say, "I did but jest with thee." But the other answered, "Thou liest, O vilest of the Ifrits, and meanest andfilthiest!" and he set off with the bottle for the sea side. theIfrit calling out "Nay! Nay!" and he calling out "Aye! Aye !"There upon the Evil Spirit softened his voice and smoothed hisspeech and abased himself, saying, "What wouldest thou do withme, O Fisherman?" "I will throw thee back into the sea," heanswered. "where thou hast been housed and homed for a thousandand eight hundred years. and now I will leave thee therein tillJudgment day: did I not say to thee: Spare me and Allah shallspare thee. and slay me not lest Allah slay thee? yet thou spurneast my supplication and hadst no intention save to deal ungraciously by me, and Allah hath now thrown thee into my handsand I am cunninger than thou." Quoth the Ifrit, "Open for me andI may bring thee weal." Quoth the Fisherman, "Thou liest, thouaccursed! my case with thee is that of the Wazir of King Yunanwith the sage Duban." "And who was the Wazir of King Yunanand who was the sage Duban. and what was the story about them?"quoth the Ifrit, whereupon the Fisherman began to tell