Once upon a time a town mouse met a country mouse on the outskirts ofa wood. The country mouse was sitting under a hazel thicket pluckingnuts."Busy harvesting, I see," said the town mouse. "Who would think of ourmeeting in this out of the way part of the world?""Just so," said the country mouse."You are gathering nuts for your winter store?" asked the town mouse?"I am obliged to do so if we intend having anything to live upon duringthe winter," said the country mouse."The husk is big and the nut full this year, enough to satisfy anyhungry body," said the town mouse."Yes, you are right there," said the country mouse. And then sherelated how well she lived and how comfortable she was at home.the town mouse maintained that she was the better off, but the countrymouse said that nowhere could one be so well off as in the woods andhills. The town mouse, however, declared she was best off. And as theycould not agree on this point they promised to visit one another atChristmas, then they could see for themselves which was really the mostcomfortable.The first visit was to be paid by the town mouse.Now, although the country mouse had moved down form the mountains forthe winter, the road was long and tiring, and one had to travel up hilland down dale. The snow lay thick and deep, so the town mouse found ithard work to get on, and she became both tired and hungry before shereached the end of her journey."How nice it will be to get some food," she thought.The country mouse had scraped together the best she had. There were nutkernels, polypoly and other sorts of roots, and many other good thingswhich grow in woods and fields. She kept it all in a hole far under theground, so the frost could not reach it, and close by was a runningspring, open all the winter, so she could drink as much water as sheliked. There was an abundance of all she had, and they ate both well andheartily. But the town mouse thought it was very poor fare indeed."One can, of course, keep boy and soul together on this," said she,"but I don't think much of it. Now you must be good enough to visit me andtaste what we have."Yes, that she would, and before long she set out. The town mouse hadgathered together all the scraps from the Christmas fare which the womanof the house had dropped on the floor during the holidays   bits ofcheese, butter and tallow ends, cake crumbs, pastry, and many other goodthings. In the dish under the ale tap she had drink enough. In fact, theplace was full of all kinds of dainties.They ate and fared well. The country mouse seemed never to have hadenough. She had never tasted such delicacies. But then she became thirsty,for she found the food both strong and rich, and now she wanted somethingto drink."We haven't far to go for the beer we shall drink," said the townmouse, and jumped upon the edge of the dish and drank until she was nolonger thirsty. She did not drink too much, for she knew the Christmasbeer was strong. The country mouse, however, thought the beer a splendiddrink. She had never tasted anything but water, so she took one sip afteranother, but as she could not stand strong drink she became tipsy beforeshe left the dish.The drink got into her head and down into her toes, and she beganrunning and jumping about from one beer barrel to the other, and to danceand tumble about on the shelves among the cups and mugs. She squeaked andscreeched as if she were both drunk and mad. About her being drunk therewas very little doubt."You must not carry on as if you had just come from the backwoods andmake such a row and noise," said the town mouse. "The master of the houseis a bailiff, and he is very strict indeed," she added.The country mouse said she didn't care either for bailiffs or beggars.But the cat sat at the top of the cellar steps, lying in wait, and heardall the chatter and noise. When the woman of the house went down to drawsome beer and lifted the trapdoor, the cat slipped by into the cellar andstruck its claws into the county mouse. Then there was quite another sortof dance.The town mouse slid back into her hole and sat in safety looking on,while the country mouse suddenly became sober, when she felt the claws ofthe cat in her back."Oh, my dear bailiff, of dearest bailiff, be merciful and spare mylife, and I will tell you a fairy tale," she said."Well, go on," said the cat."Once upon a time there were two little mice," said the country mouse,squeaking slowly and pitifully, for she wanted to make the story last aslong as she could."Then they were not lonely," said the cat dryly and curtly."And they had a steak which they were going to fry.""Then they could not starve," said the cat."And they put it out on the roof to cool," said the country mouse."Then they did not burn themselves," said the cat."But there came a fox and a crow and ate it all up," said the countrymouse."Then I'll eat you," said the cat.But just at that moment the woman shut the trapdoor with a slam, whichso startled the cat that she let ho her hold of the mouse. One bound andthe country mouse found herself in the hole with the town mouse. Fromthere a passage led out into the snow, and you may be sure the countrymouse did not wait long before she set out homeward."And this is what you call living well and being best off," she said tothe town mouse. "Heaven preserve me from having such a fine place andsuch a master! Why I only just got away with my life!"