Long, long ago at Matsakya some of the people had been running stick races( tikwane ) and losing. "Let us have Mole ( yei ) and Hawk( anelaue ) run against each other!" said the people of Matsakya. Onthe side of Hawk were to be those who had been winning the races. on theside of Mole, those who had been losing.The bow priests ( apilashiwanni ) of the winners went over to seeHawk. They said to him, "We wish to have a race. We wish you and Mole torun against each other."Hawk said, "When is the race to be run?"They said, "We wish to have it tomorrow."Hawk said, "No, we cannot have it tomorrow. You must wait four days."The bow priest of the losers went to Mole. He said, "We want to have arace between you and Hawk."Mole said, "When is the race to be run?""We wish to have it tomorrow."Mole said, "No, we cannot have it tomorrow. You must wait four days."The day before the race they collected the stakes: beads, red and white,and turquoise. The night before, Mole went to the houses of the others(i.e., the other moles), and told them at different places, as Hawk shouldcome along, to stick out their heads. Mole said, "About that time urinateand wet yourselves, so that, when Hawk comes up and sees you, he willthink you are sweating."Mole went to his house and stayed there all night. Hawk staid in his houseall night. The next day they brought the stakes into the plaza.When they had finished laying the bets, Mole said to Hawk, "Whichdirection shall we take? I will go under ground, and you above ground."Hawk said, "Let us go by Matsakya, Tsililiima, Tekiapoi, Awiela,Alihemula, Kopachia, Telaluwaiela, Akiapoella, Kushinolko, Matsakya."As soon as they started off, Mole went into his hole and staid in it. Hawkflew on to Tsililiima. There a mole poked out his head, and called out,"Keep on! We are running together. Keep on as you are!" Then he went backunderground.Hawk flew on to Tekiapoi. There another mole poked out his head, andcalled out, "Keep on! We are running together. Keep on as you are!"Meanwhile Mole, he who made the bet, prayed to his father the sun, and theclouds began to gather. By the time Kopachia was reached and the molethere looked out of the hole, Hawk was behind. The mole waited. He said,"If you don't make haste, I shall leave you behind." By that time the rainwas falling fast.When Hawk reached Telaluwaiela, he was wet through. At Akiapoella, Hawkwas wobbling, he was drenched. The mole there said, "You best make haste,I am leaving you far behind. I had to wait here for you a long time."Hawk could hardly fly. At Matsakya, Mole jumped out where the things werepiled, and said, "That is the way to win a race."Mole won everything: the beads, the turquoise. He took them all to hishouse. Hawk lost everything. He was so muddy he could scarcely fly.