There was a farmer that had an only daughter. and she was very handsome, but proud. One day, when the servants were all afield, her mother sent her to the well for a pitcher of water.When she had let down the bucket, it was so heavy that she could hardly draw it up again. and she was going to let loose of it, when a voice in the well said, "Hold tight and pull hard, and good luck will come of it at last."So she held tight and pulled hard. and when the bucket came up there was nothing in it but a frog, and the frog said, "Thank you, my dear. I've been a long while in the well, and I'll make a lady of you for getting me out."So when she saw it was only a frog, she took no notice, but filled her pitcher and went home.Now, when they were at supper, there came a knock at the door, and somebody outside said:Open the door, my dearest sweet one,And think of the well in the wood.Where you and I were together, love a keeping,And think of the well in the wood.So she looked out of the window, and there was the frog in boots and spurs.So says she, "I sha'n't open the door for a frog."Then says her father, "Open the door to the gentleman. Who knows what it may come to at last?"So she opened the door, and the frog came in. Then says the frog:Set me a chair, my dearest sweet one,And think of the well in the wood.Where you and I were together, love a keeping,And think of the well in the wood."I'm sure I sha'n't set a chair. the floor's good enough for a frog."The frog makes many requests, to all of which the lady returns uncivil answers. He asks for beer, and is told, "Water is good enough for a frog." to be put to bed, but, "The cistern is good enough for a frog to sleep in."The father, however, insists on her compliance. and even when the frog says, "Cuddle my back, my dearest sweet one," orders her to do so, "For who knows what it may come to at last?"And in the morning, when she woke, she saw by her side the handsomest gentleman that ever was seen, in a scarlet coat and top boots, with a sword by his side and a gold chain round his neck, and gold rings on his fingers. and he married her and made her a lady, and they lived very happy together.