it was brought to her, she pronounced over it some words which weunderstood not, and, sprinkling me with it, said, Be restored, byvirtue of the name of the Truth, and by virtue of the most great name ofGod, to thy original form! whereupon I became a man as I was at first,excepting that my eye was destroyed. After this, she cried out, Thefire! the fire! O my father, I shall no longer live, for I ampredestined to be killed. Had he been a human being, I had killed him atthe first of the encounter. I experienced no difficulty till thescattering of the grains of the pomegranate, when I picked them upexcepting the one in which was the life of the Jinnee: had I picked upthat, he had instantly died. but I saw it not, as fate and destiny hadappointed. and suddenly he came upon me, and a fierce contest ensuedbetween us under the earth, and in the air, and in the water. and everytime that he tried against me a new mode, I employed against him onemore potent, until he tried against me the mode of fire. and rarely doesone escape against whom the mode of fire is employed. Destiny, however,aided me, so that I burned him first. but I exhorted him previously toembrace the faith of El Islam. Now I die. and may God supply my place toyou. Having thus said, she ceased not to pray for relief from the fire.and lo, a spark ascended to her breast, and thence to her face. and whenit reached her face, she wept, and exclaimed, I testify that there is nodeity but God, and I testify that Moammad is God's Apostle! We thenlooked towards her, and saw that she had become a heap of ashes by theside of the ashes of the 'Efreet.We were plunged into grief on her account, and I wished that I had beenin her place rather than have seen that sweet faced creature who haddone me this kindness reduced to a heap of ashes: but the decree of Godcannot be averted. The King, on beholding his daughter in this state,plucked out what remained of his beard, and slapped his face, and renthis clothes. and I also did the same, while we both wept for her. Thencame the chamberlains and other great officers of the court, who,finding the King in a state of insensibility, with two heaps of ashesbefore him, were astonished, and remained encompassing him until herecovered from his fit, when he informed them of what had befallen hisdaughter with the 'Efreet. and great was their affliction. The womenshrieked, with the female slaves, and continued their mourning sevendays. After this, the King gave orders to build, over the ashes of hisdaughter, a great tomb with a dome, and illuminated it with candles andlamps: but the ashes of the 'Efreet they scattered in the wind, exposingthem to the curse of God. The King then fell sick, and was near untodeath: his illness lasted a month. but after this he recovered hishealth, and, summoning me to his presence, said to me, O young man, wepassed our days in the enjoyment of the utmost happiness, secure fromthe vicissitudes of fortune, until thou camest to us, when troublesovercame us. Would that we had never seen thee, nor thy ugly form, onaccount of which we have been reduced to this state of privation: for,in the first place, I have lost my daughter, who was worth a hundredmen. and, secondly, I have suffered this burning, and lost my teeth: myeunuch also is dead: but it was not in thy power to prevent theseafflictions: the decree of God hath been fulfilled on us and on thee.and praise be to God that my daughter restored thee, though shedestroyed herself. Now, however, depart, O my son, from my city. It isenough that hath happened on thy account. but as it was decreed againstus and thee, depart in peace.So I departed, O my mistress, from his presence. but before I quittedthe city, I entered a public bath, and shaved my beard. I traversedvarious regions, and passed through great cities, and bent my course tothe Abode of Peace, Baghdad, in the hope of obtaining aninterview with the Prince of the Faithful, that I might relate to himall that had befallen me.The third mendicant then advanced, and thus related his story: THE STORY OF THE THIRD ROYAL MENDICANT.O illustrious lady, my story is not like those of my two companions, butmore wonderful: the course of fate and destiny brought upon them eventsagainst which they could not guard. but as to myself, the shaving of mybeard and the loss of my eye were occasioned by my provoking fate andmisfortune. and the cause was this: I was a King, and the son of a King. and when my father died, Isucceeded to his throne, and governed my subjects with justice andbeneficence. I took pleasure in sea voyages. and my capital was on theshore of an extensive sea, interspersed with fortified and garrisonedislands, which I desired, for my amusement, to visit. I thereforeembarked with a fleet of ten ships, and took with me provisionssufficient for a whole month. I proceeded twenty days, after which therearose against us a contrary wind. but at daybreak it ceased, and the seabecame calm, and we arrived at an island, where we landed, and cookedsome provisions and ate. after which we remained there two days. Wethen continued our voyage. and when twenty days more had passed, wefound ourselves in strange waters, unknown to the captain, and desiredthe watch to look out from the mast head: so he went aloft, and when hehad come down he said to the captain, I saw, on my right hand, fishfloating upon the surface of the water. and looking towards the midst ofthe sea, I perceived something looming in the distance, sometimes black,and sometimes white.When the captain heard this report of the watch, he threw his turban onthe deck, and plucked his beard, and said to those who were with him,Receive warning of our destruction, which will befall all of us: not onewill escape! So saying, he began to weep. and all of us in like mannerbewailed our lot. I desired him to inform us of that which the watch hadseen. O my lord, he replied, know that we have wandered from our coursesince the commencement of the contrary wind that was followed in themorning by a calm, in consequence of which we remained stationary twodays: from that period we have deviated from our course for twenty onedays, and we have no wind to carry us back from the fate which awaits usafter this day: to morrow we shall arrive at a mountain of black stone,called loadstone: the current is now bearing us violently towards it,and the ships will fall in pieces, and every nail in them will fly tothe mountain, and adhere to it. for God hath given to the loadstone asecret property by virtue of which everything of iron is attractedtowards it. On that mountain is such a quantity of iron as no oneknoweth but God, whose name be exalted. for from times of old greatnumbers of ships have been destroyed by the influence of thatmountain. There is, upon the summit of the mountain, acupola of brass supported by ten columns, and upon the top of thiscupola is a horseman upon a horse of brass, having in his hand a brazenspear, and upon his breast suspended a tablet of lead, upon which areengraved mysterious names and talismans: and as long, O King, as thishorseman remains upon the horse, so long will every ship that approachesbe destroyed, with every person on board, and all the iron contained init will cleave to the mountain: no one will be safe until the horsemanshall have fallen from the horse. The captain then wept bitterly. andwe felt assured that our destruction was inevitable, and every one of usbade adieu to his friend.On the following morning we drew near to the mountain. the currentcarried us towards it with violence, and when the ships were almostclose to it, they fell asunder, and all the nails, and every thing elsethat was of iron, flew from them towards the loadstone. It was near theclose of day when the ships fell in pieces. Some of us were drowned, andsome escaped. but the greater number were drowned, and of those whosaved their lives none knew what became of the others, so stupefied werethey by the waves and the boisterous wind. As for myself, O my mistress,God, whose name be exalted, spared me on account of the trouble andtorment and affliction that He had predestined to befall me. I placedmyself upon a plank, and the wind and waves cast it upon the mountain.and when I had landed, I found a practicable way to the summit,resembling steps cut in the rock: so I exclaimed, In the name ofGod! and offered up a prayer, and attempted the ascent, holding fast bythe notches. and presently God stilled the wind and assisted me in myendeavours, so that I arrived in safety at the summit. Rejoicing greatlyin my escape, I immediately entered the cupola, and performed theprayers of two rek'ahs in gratitude to God for mypreservation. after which I slept beneath the cupola, and heard a voicesaying to me, O son of Khaeeb, when thou awakest from thysleep, dig beneath thy feet, and thou wilt find a bow of brass, andthree arrows of lead, whereon are engraved talismans: then take the bowand arrows and shoot at the horseman that is upon the top of the cupola,and relieve mankind from this great affliction. for when thou hast shotat the horseman he will fall into the sea. the bow will also fall, anddo thou bury it in its place. and as soon as thou hast done this, thesea will swell and rise until it attains the summit of the mountain.and there will appear upon it a boat bearing a man, different from himwhom thou shalt have cast down, and he will come to thee, having an oarin his hand: then do thou embark with him. but utter not the name ofGod. and he will convey thee in ten days to a safe sea, where, on thyarrival, thou wilt find one who will take thee to thy city. All thisshall be done if thou utter not the name of God.Awaking from my sleep, I sprang up, and did as the voice had directed. Ishot at the horseman, and he fell into the sea. and the bow havingfallen from my hand, I buried it: the sea then became troubled, and roseto the summit of the mountain, and when I had stood waiting there alittle while, I beheld a boat in the midst of the sea, approaching me. Ipraised God, whose name be exalted, and when the boat came to me, Ifound in it a man of brass, with a tablet of lead upon his breast,engraven with names and talismans. Without uttering a word, I embarkedin the boat, and the man rowed me ten successive days, after which Ibeheld the islands of security, whereupon, in the excess of my joy, Iexclaimed, In the name of God! There is no deity but God! God is mostgreat! and as soon as I had done this, he cast me out of the boat, andsank in the sea.Being able to swim, I swam until night, when my arms and shoulders weretired, and, in this perilous situation, I repeated the profession ofthe faith, and gave myself up as lost. but the sea rose with theviolence of the wind, and a wave like a vast castle threw me upon theland, in order to the accomplishment of the purpose of God. I ascendedthe shore, and after I had wrung out my clothes, and spread them uponthe ground to dry, I slept. and in the morning I put on my clothesagain, and, looking about to see which way I should go, I found a tractcovered with trees, to which I advanced. and when I had walked round it,I found that I was upon a small island in the midst of the sea. uponwhich I said within myself, Every time that I escape from one calamity Ifall into another that is worse: but while I was reflecting upon myunfortunate case, and wishing for death, I beheld a vessel bearing anumber of men. I arose immediately, and climbed into a tree. and lo, thevessel came to the shore, and there landed from it ten black slavesbearing axes. They proceeded to the middle of the island, and, diggingup the earth, uncovered and lifted up a trap door, after which theyreturned to the vessel, and brought from it bread and flour andclarified butter and honey and sheep and everything that the wants of aninhabitant would require, continuing to pass backwards and forwardsbetween the vessel and the trap door, bringing loads from the former,and entering the latter, until they had removed all the stores from theship. They then came out of the vessel with various clothes of the mostbeautiful description, and in the midst of them was an old sheykh,enfeebled and wasted by extreme age, leading by the hand a young mancast in the mould of graceful symmetry, and invested with such perfectbeauty as deserved to be a subject for proverbs. He was like a fresh andslender twig, enchanting and captivating every heart by his elegantform. The party proceeded to the trap door, and, entering it, becameconcealed from my eyes.They remained beneath about two hours, or more. after which, the sheykhand the slaves came out. but the youth came not with them. and theyreplaced the earth, and embarked and set sail. Soon after, I descendedfrom the tree, and went to the excavation. I removed the earth, and,entering the aperture, saw a flight of wooden steps, which I descended.and, at the bottom, I beheld a handsome dwelling place, furnished with avariety of silken carpets. and there was the youth, sitting upon a highmattress, with sweet smelling flowers and fruits placed before him. Onseeing me, his countenance became pale. but I saluted him, and said, Letthy mind be composed, O my master: thou hast nothing to fear, O delightof my eye. for I am a man, and the son of a King, like thyself: fatehath impelled me to thee, that I may cheer thee in thy solitude. Theyouth, when he heard me thus address him, and was convinced that I wasone of his own species, rejoiced exceedingly at my arrival, his colourreturned, and, desiring me to approach him, he said, O my brother, mystory is wonderful: my father is a jeweller: he had slaves who madevoyages by his orders, for the purposes of commerce, and he had dealingswith Kings. but he had never been blest with a son. and he dreamt thathe was soon to have a son, but one whose life would be short. and heawoke sorrowful. Shortly after, in accordance with thedecrees of God, my mother conceived me, and when her time was complete,she gave birth to me. and my father was greatly rejoiced: theastrologers, however, came to him, and said, Thy son will live fifteenyears: his fate is intimated by the fact that there is, in the sea, amountain called the Mountain of Loadstone, whereon is a horseman on ahorse of brass, on the former of which is a tablet of lead suspended tohis neck. and when the horseman shall be thrown down from his horse, thyson will be slain: the person who is to slay him is he who will throwdown the horseman, and his name is King 'Ajeeb, the son ofKing Khaeeb. My father was greatly afflicted at this announcement. andwhen he had reared me until I had nearly attained the age of fifteenyears, the astrologers came again, and informed him that the horsemanhad fallen into the sea, and that it had been thrown down by King'Ajeeb, the son of King Khaeeb. on hearing which, he prepared for methis dwelling, and here left me to remain until the completion of theterm, of which there now remain ten days. All this he did from fear lestKing 'Ajeeb should kill me.When I heard this, I was filled with wonder, and said within myself, Iam King 'Ajeeb, the son of King Khaeeb, and it was I who threw down thehorseman. but, by Allah, I will neither kill him nor do him any injury.Then said I to the youth, Far from thee be both destruction and harm, ifit be the will of God, whose name be exalted: thou hast nothing to fear:I will remain with thee to serve thee, and will go forth with thee tothy father, and beg of him to send me back to my country, for the whichhe will obtain a reward. The youth rejoiced at my words, and I sat andconversed with him until night, when I spread his bed for him, andcovered him, and slept near to his side. And in the morning I broughthim water, and he washed his face, and said to me, May God requite theefor me with every blessing. If I escape from King 'Ajeeb, I will make myfather reward thee with abundant favours. Never, I replied, may the dayarrive that would bring thee misfortune. I then placed before him somerefreshments, and after we had eaten together, we passed the dayconversing with the utmost cheerfulness.I continued to serve him for nine days. and on the tenth day the youthrejoiced at finding himself in safety, and said to me, O my brother, Iwish that thou wouldst in thy kindness warm for me some water, that Imay wash myself and change my clothes. for I have smelt the odour ofescape from death, in consequence of thy assistance. With pleasure, Ireplied. and I arose, and warmed the water. after which, he entered aplace concealed from my view, and, having washed himself and changed hisclothes, laid himself upon the mattress to rest after his bath. He thensaid to me, Cut up for me, O my brother, a water melon, and mix itsjuice with some sugar: so I arose, and, taking a melon, brought it upona plate, and said to him, Knowest thou, O my master, where is theknife? See, here it is, he answered, upon the shelf over my head. Isprang up hastily, and took it from its sheath, and as I was drawingback, my foot slipped, as God had decreed, and I fell upon the youth,grasping in my hand the knife, which entered his body, and he diedinstantly. When I perceived that he was dead, and that I had killed him,I uttered a loud shriek, and beat my face, and rent my clothes, saying,This is, indeed, a calamity! O what a calamity! O my Lord, I implore thypardon, and declare to Thee my innocence of his death! Would that I haddied before him! How long shall I devour trouble after trouble!With these reflections I ascended the steps, and, having replaced thetrap door, returned to my first station, and looked over the sea, whereI saw the vessel that had come before, approaching, and cleaving thewaves in its rapid course. Upon this I said within myself, Now will themen come forth from the vessel, and find the youth slain, and they willslay me also: so I climbed into a tree, and concealed myself among itsleaves, and sat there till the vessel arrived and cast anchor, when theslaves landed with the old sheykh, the father of the youth, and went tothe place, and removed the earth. They were surprised at finding itmoist, and, when they had descended the steps, they discovered the youthlying on his back, exhibiting a face beaming with beauty, though dead,and clad in white and clean clothing, with the knife remaining in hisbody. They all wept at the sight, and the father fell down in a swoon,which lasted so long that the slaves thought he was dead. At length,however, he recovered, and came out with the slaves, who had wrapped thebody of the youth in his clothes. They then took back all that was inthe subterranean dwelling to the vessel, and departed.I remained, O my mistress, by day hiding myself in a tree, and at nightwalking about the open part of the island. Thus I continued for thespace of two months. and I perceived that, on the western side of theisland, the water of the sea every day retired, until, after threemonths, the land that had been beneath it became dry. Rejoicing at this,and feeling confident now in my escape, I traversed this dry tract, andarrived at an expanse of sand. whereupon I emboldened myself, andcrossed it. I then saw in the distance an appearance of fire, and,advancing towards it, found it to be a palace, overlaid with plates ofcopper, which, reflecting the rays of the sun, seemed from a distance tobe fire: and when I drew near to it, reflecting upon this sight, thereapproached me an old sheykh, accompanied by ten young men who were allblind of one eye, at which I was extremely surprised. As soon as theysaw me, they saluted me, and asked me my story, which I related to themfrom first to last. and they were filled with wonder. They thenconducted me into the palace, where I saw ten benches, upon each ofwhich was a mattress covered with a blue stuff. and each ofthe young men seated himself upon one of these benches, while the sheykhtook his place upon a smaller one. after which they said to me, Sitdown, O young man, and ask no question respecting our condition, norrespecting our being blind of one eye. Then the sheykh arose, andbrought to each of them some food, and the same to me also. and next hebrought to each of us some wine: and after we had eaten, we sat drinkingtogether until the time for sleep, when the young men said to thesheykh, Bring to us our accustomed supply: upon which the sheykh arose,and entered a closet, from which he brought, upon his head, ten coveredtrays. Placing these upon the floor, he lighted ten candles, and stuckone of them upon each tray. and, having done this, he removed thecovers, and there appeared beneath them ashes mixed with poundedcharcoal. The young men then tucked up their sleeves above the elbow,and blackened their faces, and slapped their cheeks,exclaiming, We were reposing at our ease, and our impertinent curiositysuffered us not to remain so! Thus they did until the morning, when thesheykh brought them some hot water, and they washed their faces, and puton other clothes.On witnessing this conduct, my reason was confounded, my heart was sotroubled that I forgot my own misfortunes, and I asked them the cause oftheir strange behaviour. upon which they looked towards me, and said, Oyoung man, ask not respecting that which doth not concern thee. but besilent. for in silence is security from error. I remained with them awhole month, during which, every night they did the same. and at lengthI said to them, I conjure you by Allah to remove this disquiet from mymind, and to inform me of the cause of your acting in this manner, andof your exclaiming, We were reposing at our ease, and our impertinentcuriosity suffered us not to remain so! if ye inform me not, I willleave you, and go my way. for the proverb saith, When the eye seeth not,the heart doth not grieve. On hearing these words, they replied, Wehave not concealed this affair from thee but in our concern for thywelfare, lest thou shouldst become like us, and the same affliction thathath befallen us happen also to thee. I said, however, Ye mustpositively inform me of this matter. We give thee good advice, saidthey, and do thou receive it, and ask us not respecting our case.otherwise thou wilt become blind of one eye, like us: but I stillpersisted in my request. whereupon they said, O young man, if thisbefall thee, know that thou wilt be banished from our company. They thenall arose, and, taking a ram, slaughtered and skinned it, and said tome, Take this knife with thee, and introduce thyself into the skin ofthe ram, and we will sew thee up in it, and go away. whereupon a birdcalled the rukh' will come to thee, and, taking thee up byits talons, will fly away with thee, and set thee down upon a mountain:then cut open the skin with this knife, and get out, and the bird willfly away. Thou must arise, as soon as it hath gone, and journey for halfa day, and thou wilt see before thee a lofty palace, encased with redgold, set with various precious stones, such as emeralds and rubies, c.. and if thou enter it thy case will be as ours. for our entranceinto that palace was the cause of our being blind of one eye. and if oneof us would relate to thee all that hath befallen him, his story wouldbe too long for thee to hear.They then sewed me up in the skin, and entered their palace. and soonafter, there came an enormous white bird, which seized me, and flew awaywith me, and set me down upon the mountain. whereupon I cut open theskin, and got out. and the bird, as soon as it saw me, flew away. I roseup quickly, and proceeded towards the palace, which I found to be asthey had described it to me. and when I had entered it, I beheld, at theupper end of a saloon, forty young damsels, beautiful as so many moons,and magnificently attired, who, as soon as they saw me, exclaimed,Welcome! Welcome! O our master and our lord! We have been for a monthexpecting thee. Praise be to God who hath blessed us with one who isworthy of us, and one of whom we are worthy! After having thus greetedme, they seated me upon a mattress, and said, Thou art from this day ourmaster and prince, and we are thy handmaids, and entirely under thyauthority. They then brought to me some refreshments, and, when I hadeaten and drunk, they sat and conversed with me, full of joy andhappiness. So lovely were these ladies, that even a devotee, if he sawthem, would gladly consent to be their servant, and to comply with allthat they would desire. At the approach of night they all assembledaround me, and placed before me a table of fresh and dried fruits, withother delicacies that the tongue cannot describe, and wine. and onebegan to sing, while another played upon the lute. The wine cupscirculated among us, and joy overcame me to such a degree as toobliterate from my mind every earthly care, and make me exclaim, Thisis indeed a delightful life! I passed a night of such enjoyment as I hadnever before experienced. and on the morrow I entered the bath. and,after I had washed myself, they brought me a suit of the richestclothing, and we again sat down to a repast.In this manner I lived with them a whole year. but on the first day ofthe new year, they seated themselves around me, and began to weep, andbade me farewell, clinging to my skirts. What calamity hath befallenyou? said I. Ye have broken my heart. They answered, Would that we hadnever known thee. for we have associated with many men, but have seennone like thee. May God, therefore, not deprive us of thy company. Andthey wept afresh. I said to them, I wish that you would acquaint me withthe cause of this weeping. Thou, they replied, art the cause. yet now,if thou wilt attend to what we tell thee, we shall never be parted. butif thou act contrary to it, we are separated from this time. and ourhearts whisper to us that thou wilt not regard our warning. Inform me,said I, and I will attend to your directions: and they replied, If thenthou wouldst inquire respecting our history, know that we are thedaughters of Kings: for many years it hath been our custom to assemblehere, and every year we absent ourselves during a period of forty days.then returning, we indulge ourselves for a year in feasting anddrinking. This is our usual practice. and now we fear that thou wiltdisregard our directions when we are absent from thee. We deliver tothee the keys of the palace, which are a hundred in number, belonging toa hundred closets. Open each of these, and amuse thyself, and eat anddrink, and refresh thyself, excepting the closet that hath a door of redgold. for if thou open this, the consequence will be a separationbetween us and thee. We conjure thee, therefore, to observe ourdirection, and to be patient during this period. Upon hearing this, Iswore to them that I would never open the closet to which they alluded.and they departed, urging me to be faithful to my promise.I remained alone in the palace, and at the approach of evening I openedthe first closet, and, entering it, found a mansion like paradise, witha garden containing green trees loaded with ripe fruits, abounding withsinging birds, and watered by copious streams. My heart was soothed bythe sight, and I wandered among the trees, scenting the fragrance of theflowers, and listening to the warbling of the birds as they sang thepraises of the One, the Almighty. After admiring themingled colours of the apple resembling the hue upon the cheek of abeloved mistress and the sallow countenance of the perplexed and timidlover, the sweet smelling quince diffusing an odour like musk andambergris, and the plum shining as the ruby, I retired from this place,and, having locked the door, opened that of the next closet, withinwhich I beheld a spacious tract planted with numerous palm trees, andwatered by a river flowing among rose trees, and jasmine, and marjoram,and eglantine, and narcissus, and gilliflower, the odours of which,diffused in every direction by the wind, inspired me with the utmostdelight. I locked again the door of the second closet, and opened thatof the third. Within this I found a large saloon, paved with marbles ofvarious colours, and with costly minerals and precious gems, andcontaining cages constructed of sandal and aloes wood with singing birdswithin them, and others upon the branches of trees which were plantedthere. My heart was charmed, my trouble was dissipated, and I sleptthere until the morning. I then opened the door of the fourth closet,and within this door I found a great building in which were fortyclosets with open doors. and, entering these, I beheld pearls, andrubies, and chrysolites, and emeralds, and other precious jewels such asthe tongue cannot describe. I was astonished at the sight, and said,Such things as these, I imagine, are not found in the treasury of anyKing. I am now the King of my age, and all these treasures, through thegoodness of God, are mine, together with forty damsels under myauthority who have no man to share them with me.Thus I continued to amuse myself, passing from one place to another,until thirty nine days had elapsed, and I had opened the doors of allthe closets excepting that which they had forbidden me to open. My heartwas then disturbed by curiosity respecting this hundredth closet, andthe Devil, in order to plunge me into misery, induced me to open it. Ihad not patience to abstain, though there remained of the appointedperiod only one day: so I approached the closet, and opened the door.and when I had entered, I perceived a fragrant odour, such as I hadnever before smelt, which intoxicated me so that I fell down insensible,and remained some time in this state: but at length recovering, Ifortified my heart, and proceeded. I found the floor overspread withsaffron, and the place illuminated by golden lamps and by candles, whichdiffused the odours of musk and ambergris. and two largeperfuming vessels filled with aloes wood and ambergris, and a perfumecompounded with honey, spread fragrance through the whole place. I sawalso a black horse, of the hue of the darkest night, before which was amanger of white crystal filled with cleansed sesame, and another,similar to it, containing rose water infused with musk: he was saddledand bridled, and his saddle was of red gold. Wondering at the sight ofhim, I said within myself, This must be an animal of extraordinaryqualities. and, seduced by the Devil, I led him out, and mounted him.but he moved not from his place: I kicked him with my heel. but still hemoved not: so I took a mira'ah and struck him with it. and as soon ashe felt the blow he uttered a sound like thunder, and, expanding a pairof wings, soared with me to an immense height through the air, and thenalighted upon the roof of another palace, where he threw me from hisback, and, by a violent blow with his tail upon my face, as I sat on theroof, struck out my eye, and left me.In this state I descended from the roof, and below I found the one eyedyoung men before mentioned, who, as soon as they beheld me, exclaimed,No welcome to thee! Receive me, said I, into your company: but theyreplied, By Allah, thou shalt not remain with us: so I departed fromthem, with mournful heart and weeping eye, and, God having decreed me asafe journey hither, I arrived at Baghdad, after I had shaved my beard,and become a mendicant.CONTINUATION OF THE STORY OF THE LADIES OF BAGHDAD,  c.The mistress of the house then looked towards the Khaleefeh and Jaafarand Mesroor, and said to them, Acquaint me with your histories: uponwhich Jaafar advanced towards her, and related to her the same storythat he had told to the portress before they entered. and when she hadheard it, she liberated them all. They accordingly departed, and whenthey had gone out into the street, the Khaleefeh inquired of themendicants whither they were going. They answered that they knew notwhither to go: whereupon he desired them to accompany his party. andthen said to Jaafar, Take them home with thee, and bring them before meto morrow, and we will see the result. Jaafar, therefore, did as he wascommanded, and the Khaleefeh returned to his palace. but he was unableto sleep during the remainder of the night.On the following morning he sat upon his throne, and when his courtiershad presented themselves before him, and departed, excepting Jaafar, hesaid to him, Bring before me the three ladies and the two bitches andthe mendicants. So Jaafar arose, and brought them, and, placing theladies behind the curtains, said to them, We have forgiven you onaccount of your previous kindness to us, and because ye knew us not. andnow I acquaint you that ye are in the presence of the fifth of the sonsof El 'Abbas, Haroon Er Rasheed. therefore relate to him nothing but thetruth. And when the ladies heard the words which Jaafar addressed tothem on the part of the Khaleefeh, the eldest of them advanced, and thusrelated her story: THE STORY OF THE FIRST OF THE THREE LADIES OF BAGHDAD.O Prince of the Faithful, my story is wonderful. for these twobitches are my sisters, born to my father, but of anothermother. and I am the youngest of the three. After the death of ourfather, who left us five thousand pieces of gold, these my two sistersmarried, and when they had resided some time with their husbands, eachof the latter prepared a stock of merchandise, and received from hiswife a thousand pieces of gold, and they all set forth on a journeytogether, leaving me here. but after they had been absent four years, mysisters' husbands lost all their property, and abandoned them in astrange land, and they returned to me in the garb of beggars. When Ifirst saw them in this state, I knew them not. and, as soon as Irecognised them, I exclaimed, How is it that ye are in thiscondition? O our sister, they answered, thy inquiry now is of no use:the Pen hath written what God hath decreed. I sent them,therefore, to the bath, and, having clad them in new apparel, said tothem, O my sisters, ye are my elders, and I am young. so ye shall be tome in the places of my father and mother. The inheritance which I sharedwith you God hath blessed. partake then of its increase, for my affairsare prosperous. and I and ye shall fare alike. I treated them with theutmost kindness, and during a whole year they remained with me, andenriched themselves by the money that I had given them. but after thisperiod they said to me, It will be more agreeable to us to marry again,for we can no longer abstain from doing so. O my sisters, I replied, yehave seen no happiness in marriage: a good husband in this age is rarelyfound, and ye have already had experience of the marriage state. They,however, heeded not my words. but married against my consent: yet I gavethem dowries from my own property, and continued to them my protection.They went to their husbands, and the latter, after they had resided withthem a short time, defrauded them of all that they possessed, and,setting forth on a journey, left them destitute: so again they returnedto me, and, in a state of nudity, implored my forgiveness, saying, Benot angry with us. for though thou art younger than we, thou hast moremature sense. and we promise thee that we will never again mention thesubject of marriage. I replied, Ye are welcome, O my sisters. for I haveno one dearer to me than yourselves: and I received them, and treatedthem with every kindness, and we remained happily together for the spaceof a year.After this I resolved to fit out a vessel for a mercantilevoyage: accordingly, I stocked a large ship with variousgoods and necessary provisions, and said to my sisters, Will ye ratherstay at home during my voyage, or will ye go with me? to which theyanswered, We will accompany thee during the voyage, for we cannot endureto be separated from thee. I therefore took them with me, and we setsail. but first I divided my property into two equal portions. one ofwhich I took with me, and the other I concealed, saying within myself,Perhaps some evil accident may happen to the ship, and our lives may beprolonged. in which case, when we return we shall find that which willbe of service to us. We continued our voyage by day and night, till atlength the vessel pursued a wrong course, and the captain knew notwhither to steer. The ship had entered a different sea from that whichwe wished to cross, and for some time we knew it not. but for ten dayswe had a pleasant wind, and after this, a city loomed before us in thedistance. We asked the captain what was the name of this city. and heanswered, I know it not. I have never seen it till this day, nor have Iever before in the course of my life navigated this sea: but as we havecome hither in safety, ye have nothing to do but to enter this city andland your goods, and, if ye find opportunity, sell or exchange there: ifnot, we will rest there two days, and take in fresh provisions. So weentered the port of the city, and the captain landed, and after a whilereturned to us, saying, Arise, and go up into the city, and wonder atthat which God hath done unto his creatures, and pray to be preservedfrom his anger. And when we had entered the city, we found all itsinhabitants converted into black stones. We were amazed at the sight,and as we walked through the market streets, finding the merchandise andthe gold and silver remaining in their original state, we rejoiced, andsaid, This must have been occasioned by same wonderful circumstance. Wethen separated in the streets, each of us attracted from his companionsby the wealth and stuffs in the shops.As for myself, I ascended to the citadel, which I found to be a buildingof admirable construction. and, entering the King's palace, I found allthe vessels of gold and silver remaining in their places, and the Kinghimself seated in the midst of his Chamberlains and Viceroys andWezeers, and clad in apparel of astonishing richness. Drawing nearer tohim, I perceived that he was sitting upon a throne adorned with pearlsand jewels, every one of the pearls shining like a star: his dress wasembroidered with gold, and around him stood fifty memlooks, attired insilks of various descriptions, and having in their hands drawn swords.Stupefied at this spectacle, I proceeded, and entered the saloon of theareem, upon the walls of which were hung silken curtains. and here Ibeheld the Queen, attired in a dress embroidered with fresh pearls, andhaving upon her head a diadem adorned with various jewels, and necklacesof different kinds on her neck. All her clothing and ornaments remainedas they were at first, though she herself was converted into blackstone. Here also I found an open door, and, entering it, I saw a flightof seven steps, by which I ascended to an apartment paved with marble,furnished with gold embroidered carpets, and containing a couch ofalabaster, ornamented with pearls and jewels. but my eyes were firstattracted by a gleam of light, and when I approached the spot whence itproceeded, I found a brilliant jewel, of the size of an ostrich's egg,placed upon a small stool, diffusing a light like that of a candle. Thecoverings of the couch above mentioned were of various kinds of silk,the richness of which would surprise every beholder. and I looked atthem with wonder. In this apartment I likewise observed some lightedcandles, and reflected that there must then have been some person thereto light them. I passed thence to another part of the palace, andcontinued to explore the different apartments, forgetting myself in theamazement of my mind at all these strange circumstances, and immersed inthoughts respecting what I beheld, until the commencement of night, whenI would have departed. but could not find the door: so I returned to theplace in which were the lighted candles, and there I laid myself uponthe couch, and, covering myself with a quilt, repeated some words of theur an, and endeavoured to compose myself to sleep. but I could not. Icontinued restless: and at midnight I heard a recitation of the ur an,performed by a melodious and soft voice. upon which I arose, and,looking about, saw a closet with an open door, and I entered it, andfound that it was an oratory: lighted lamps were suspended in it, andupon a prayer carpet spread on the floor sat a young man of handsomeaspect. Wondering that he had escaped the fate of the other inhabitantsof the city, I saluted him. and he raised his eyes, and returned mysalutation: and I then said to him, I conjure thee by the truth of thatwhich thou art reading in the Book of God, that thou answer the questionwhich I am about to ask thee: whereupon he smiled, and replied, Do thoufirst acquaint me with the cause of thine entrance into this place, andthen I will answer thy question: so I told him my story, and inquired ofhim the history of this city. Wait a little, said he. and he closed theur an, and, having put it in a bag of satin, seated me by his side. AsI now beheld him, his countenance appeared like the full moon, and hiswhole person exhibited such perfect elegance and loveliness, that asingle glance at him drew from me a thousand sighs, and kindled a firein my heart. I repeated my request that he would give me an account ofthe city. and, replying, I hear and obey, he thus addressed me: Know that this city belonged to my father and his family and subjects.and he is the King whom thou hast seen converted into stone. and theQueen whom thou hast seen is my mother. They were all Magians,worshipping fire in the place of the Almighty King. andthey swore by the fire and the light, and the shade and the heat, andthe revolving orb. My father had no son, till, in his declining years,he was blest with me, whom he reared until I attained to manhood. But,happily for me, there was, in our family, an old woman, far advanced inage, who was a Muslimeh, believing in God and his Apostle in her heart,though she conformed with my family in outward observances. and myfather confided in her, on account of the faithfulness and modesty thathe had observed in her character, and shewed her great favour, firmlybelieving that she held the same faith as himself. therefore, when I hadpassed my infancy, he committed me to her care, saying, Take him, andrear him, and instruct him in the ordinances of our faith, and educatehim and serve him in the best manner. The old woman accordingly receivedme, but took care to instruct me in the faith of El Islam, teaching methe laws of purification, and the divine ordinances of ablution,together with the forms of prayer. after which she made me commit tomemory the whole of the ur an. She then charged me to keep my faith asecret from my father, lest he should kill me. and I did so. and a fewdays after, the old woman died. The inhabitants of the city had nowincreased in their impiety and arrogance, and in their dereliction ofthe truth. and while they were in this state, they heard a crierproclaim with a voice like thunder, so as to be audible to both the nearand the distant, O inhabitants of this city, abstain from the worship offire, and worship the Almighty King! The people were struck withconsternation, and, flocking to my father, the King of the city, said tohim, What is this alarming voice which hath astounded us by its terriblesound? but he answered them, Let not the voice terrify you, nor let itturn you from your faith: and their hearts inclined to his words. sothey persevered in the worship of fire, and remained obstinate in theirimpiety during another year, until the return of the period at whichthey had heard the voice the first time. It was then heard a secondtime. and again, in the next year, they heard it a third time. but stillthey persisted in their evil ways, until, drawing down upon themselvesthe abhorrence and indignation of Heaven, one morning, shortly afterdaybreak, they were converted into black stones, together with theirbeasts and all their cattle. Not one of the inhabitants of the cityescaped, excepting me. and from the day on which this catastrophehappened, I have continued occupied as thou seest, in prayer, andfasting, and reading the ur an: but I have become weary of thissolitary state, having no one to cheer me with his company.On hearing these words, I said to him, Wilt thou go with me to the cityof Baghdad, and visit its learned men and lawyers, and increase thyknowledge? If so, I will be thy handmaid, though I am the mistress of myfamily, and have authority over a household of men. I have here a shipladen with merchandise, and destiny hath driven us to this city, inorder that we might become acquainted with these events: our meeting waspredestined. In this manner I continued to persuade him until he gavehis consent. I slept that night at his feet, unconscious of my statethrough excessive joy. and in the morning we rose, and, entering thetreasuries, took away a quantity of the lighter and most valuable of thearticles that they contained, and descended from the citadel into thecity, where we met the slaves and the captain, who were searching forme. They were rejoiced at seeing me, and, to their questions respectingmy absence, I replied by informing them of all that I had seen, andrelated to them the history of the young man, and the cause of thetransmutation of the people of the city, and of all that had befallenthem, which filled them with wonder. But when my two sisters saw me withthe young man, they envied me on his account, and malevolently plottedagainst me.We embarked again, and I experienced the utmost happiness, chiefly owingto the company of the young man. and after we had waited a while tillthe wind was favourable, we spread our sails, and departed. My sisterssat with me and the young man. and, in their conversation with me, said,O our sister, what dost thou purpose to do with this handsome youth? Ianswered, I desire to take him as my husband: and, turning to him, andapproaching him, I said, O my master, I wish to make a proposal to thee,and do not thou oppose it. He replied, I hear and obey: and I thenlooked towards my sisters, and said to them, This young man is all thatI desire, and all the wealth that is here is yours. Excellent, theyreplied, is thy determination: yet still they designed evil againstme. We continued our voyage with a favourable wind, and, quitting thesea of peril, entered the sea of security, across which we proceeded forsome days, until we drew near to the city of El Barah, the buildings ofwhich loomed before us at the approach of evening. but as soon as we hadfallen asleep, my sisters took us up in our bed, both myself and theyoung man, and threw us into the sea. The youth, being unable to swim,was drowned: God recorded him among the company of the martyrs.while I was registered among those whose life was yet to be preserved.and, accordingly, as soon as I awoke and found myself in the sea, theprovidence of God supplied me with a piece of timber, upon which Iplaced myself, and the waves cast me upon the shore of an island.During the remainder of the night I walked along this island, and in themorning I saw a neck of land, bearing the marks of a man's feet, anduniting with the main land. The sun having now risen, I dried my clothesin its rays, and proceeded along the path that I had discovered until Idrew near to the shore upon which stands the city, when I beheld a snakeapproaching me, and followed by a serpent which was endeavouring todestroy it. the tongue of the snake was hanging from its mouth inconsequence of excessive fatigue, and it excited my compassion. so Itook up a stone, and threw it at the head of the serpent, whichinstantly died: the snake then extended a pair of wings, and soaredaloft into the sky, leaving me in wonder at the sight. At the time ofthis occurrence I had become so fatigued, that I now laid myself downand slept. but I awoke after a little while, and found a damsel seatedat my feet, and gently rubbing them with her hands. upon which Iimmediately sat up, feeling ashamed that she should perform this servicefor me, and said to her, Who art thou, and what dost thou want? Howsoon has thou forgotten me! she exclaimed: I am she to whom thou hastjust done a kindness, by killing my enemy: I am the snake whom thousavedst from the serpent. for I am a Jinneeyeh, and the serpent was aJinnee at enmity with me. and none but thou delivered me from him:therefore, as soon as thou didst this, I flew to the ship from which thysisters cast thee, and transported all that it contained to thy house: Ithen sunk it. but as to thy sisters, I transformed them by enchantmentinto two black bitches. for I knew all that they had done to thee: theyoung man, however, is drowned. Having thus said, she took me up, andplaced me with the two black bitches on the roof of my house: and Ifound all the treasures that the ship had contained collected in themidst of my house: nothing was lost. She then said to me, I swear bythat which was engraved upon the seal of Suleyman, that, if thou do notinflict three hundred lashes upon each of these bitches every day, Iwill come and transform thee in the like manner: so I replied, I hearand obey: and have continued ever since to inflict upon them thesestripes, though pitying them while I do so.The Khaleefeh heard this story with astonishment, and then said to thesecond lady, And what occasioned the stripes of which thou bearest themarks? She answered as follows: THE STORY OF THE SECOND OF THE THREE LADIES OF BAGHDAD.O Prince of the Faithful, my father, at his death, left considerableproperty. and soon after that event I married to one of the wealthiestmen of the age, who, when I had lived with him a year, died, and Iinherited from him eighty thousand pieces of gold, the portion that fellto me according to the law. with part of which I made formyself ten suits of clothing, each of the value of a thousand pieces ofgold. And as I was sitting one day, there entered my apartment an oldwoman, disgustingly ugly, who saluted me, and said, I have an orphandaughter whose marriage I am to celebrate this night, and I would havethee obtain a reward and recompense in heaven by thy being present ather nuptial festivity. for she is broken hearted, having none tobefriend her but God, whose name be exalted. She then wept, and kissedmy feet. and, being moved with pity and compassion, I assented, uponwhich she desired me to prepare myself, telling me that she would comeat the hour of nightfall and take me. and so saying, she kissed my hand,and departed.I arose immediately, and attired myself, and when I had completed mypreparations, the old woman returned, saying, O my mistress, the ladiesof the city have arrived, and I have informed them of thy coming, andthey are waiting with joy to receive thee: so I put on my outergarments, and, taking my female slaves with me, proceeded until wearrived at a street in which a soft wind was delightfully playing, wherewe saw a gateway over arched with a marble vault, admirably constructed,forming the entrance to a palace which rose from the earth to theclouds. On our arrival there, the old woman knocked at thedoor, and, when it was opened, we entered a carpeted passage,illuminated by lamps and candles, and decorated with jewels and preciousmetals. Through this passage we passed into a saloon ofunequalled magnificence, furnished with mattresses covered with silk,lighted by hanging lamps and by candles, and having, at its upper end, acouch of alabaster decorated with pearls and jewels, and canopied bycurtains of satin, from which there came forth a lady beautiful as themoon, who exclaimed to me, Most welcome art thou, O my sister: thoudelightest me by thy company, and refreshest my heart. She then sat downagain, and said to me, O my sister, I have a brother who hath seen theeat a festivity: he is a young man, more handsome than myself, and, hisheart being violently inflamed with love of thee, he hath bribed thisold woman to go to thee, and to employ this artifice in order to obtainfor me an interview with thee. He desireth to marry thee according tothe ordinance of God and his Apostle, and in that which is lawful thereis no disgrace. When I heard these words, and saw myself thus confinedin the house so that I could not escape, I replied, I hear andobey: and the lady, rejoicing at my consent, clapped her hands, andopened a door, upon which there came out from it a young man sosurpassingly handsome, that my heart immediately inclined to him. Nosooner had he sat down than the aee and four witnesses entered, andsaluted us, and proceeded to perform the ceremony of themarriage contract between me and the young man. whichhaving done, they departed. and when they had retired, the young manlooked towards me, and said, May our night be blessed. He then informedme that he desired to impose a covenant upon me, and, bringing a copy ofthe ur an, said, Swear that thou wilt not indulge a preference, nor atall incline, to any man but me: and when I had sworn to this effect, herejoiced exceedingly, and embraced me. and the love of him took entirepossession of my heart.We lived together in the utmost happiness for the space of a month,after which I begged that he would allow me to go to the bazar, in orderto purchase some stuffs for dress, and, having obtained his permission,went thither in company with the old woman, and seated myself at theshop of a young merchant with whom she was acquainted, and whose father,as she informed me, had died and left him great wealth. She desired himto shew me his most costly stuffs. and while he was occupied in doingso, she began to utter various flattering expressions in praise of him.but I said to her, We have no concern with the praises that thoubestowest upon him. we desire only to make our purchase, and to returnhome. Meanwhile he produced to us what we wanted, and we handed him themoney: he refused, however, to take it, saying, It is an offering ofhospitality to you for your visit this day: whereupon I said to the oldwoman, If he will not take the money, return to him his stuff. But hewould not receive it again, and exclaimed, By Allah, I will take nothingfrom you: all this is a present from me for a single kiss, which I shallvalue more than the entire contents of my shop. What will a kiss profitthee? asked the old woman. Then, turning to me, she said, O my daughter,thou hast heard what the youth hath said: no harm will befall thee if hegive thee a kiss, and thou shalt take what thou wantest. Dost thou notknow, said I, that I have taken an oath? She answered, Let him kiss theethen without thy speaking, and so it will be of no consequence to thee,and thou shalt take back thy money. Thus she continued to palliate thematter until I put my head (as it were) into the bag, and consented: soI covered my eyes, and held the edge of my veil in such a manner as toprevent the passengers from seeing me, whereupon he put his mouth to mycheek beneath the veil, but instead of merely kissing me, he laceratedmy cheek by a violent bite. I fell into a swoon from the pain, and theold woman laid me on her lap till I recovered, when I found the shopclosed, and the old woman uttering expressions of grief, and saying,What God hath averted would have been a greater calamity. let us returnhome, and do thou feign to be ill, and I will come to thee and apply aremedy that shall cure the wound, and thou wilt quickly be restored.After remaining there some time longer, I rose, and, in a state of greatuneasiness and fear, returned to the house, and professed myself ill,upon which my husband came in to me, and said, What hath befallen thee,O my mistress, during this excursion? I answered, I am not well. Andwhat is this wound, said he, that is upon thy cheek, and in the softpart? I answered, When I asked thy permission, and went out to day topurchase some stuff for dress, a camel loaded with firewood droveagainst me in the crowd, and tore my veil, and wounded my cheek as thouseest, for the streets of this city are narrow. To morrow,then, he exclaimed, I will go to the governor, and make a complaint tohim, and he shall hang every seller of firewood in the city. By Allah,said I, burden not thyself by an injury to any one. for the truth is,that I was riding upon an ass, which took fright with me, and I fellupon the ground, and a stick lacerated my cheek. If it be so, then, hereplied, I will go to morrow to Jaafar El Barmekee, and relate thematter to him, and he shall kill every ass driver in this city. Wiltthou, said I, kill all those men on my account, when this which befellme was decreed by God? Undoubtedly, he answered. and, so saying, heseized me violently, and then sprang up, and uttered a loud cry, uponwhich the door opened, and there came forth from it seven black slaves,who dragged me from my bed, and threw me down in the middle of theapartment. whereupon he ordered one of them to hold me by my shouldersand to sit upon my head. and another, to sit upon my knees and to holdmy feet. A third then came, with a sword in his hand, and said, O mylord, shall I strike her with the sword, and cleave her in twain, thateach of these may take a half and throw it into the Tigris for the fishto devour? For such is the punishment of her who isunfaithful to her oath and to the laws of love. My husband answered,Strike her, O Saad: and the slave, with the drawn sword inhis hand, said, Repeat the profession of the faith, and reflect whatthou wouldst have to be done, that thou mayest give thy testamentarydirections, for this is the end of thy life. Good slave, I replied,release me for a while that I may do so: and I raised my head, and,weeping as I spoke, addressed my husband with these verses: You render me lovelorn, and remain at ease. You make my woundedeyelid to be restless, and you sleep.Your abode is between my heart and my eyes. and my heart will notrelinquish you, nor my tears conceal my passion.You made a covenant with me that you would remain faithful.but when you had gained possession of my heart you deceived me.Will you not pity my love for you and my moaning? Have you yourselfbeen secure from misfortunes?I conjure you, by Allah, if I die, that you write upon my tombstone,This was a slave of love.That, perchance, some mourner who hath felt the same flame may passby the lover's grave, and pity her.But on hearing these verses, and witnessing my weeping, he became moreincensed, and replied in the words of this couplet: I reject not the beloved of my heart from weariness: her own guiltyconduct is the cause of her punishment.She desired that another should share with me her love. but the faithof my heart inclineth not to partnership.I continued to weep, and to endeavour to excite his compassion, sayingwithin myself, I will humble me before him, and address him with softwords, that he may at least refrain from killing me, though he take allthat I possess. but he cried out to the slave, Cleave her in twain. forshe is no longer of any value to us. So the slave approached me, and Inow felt assured of my death, and committed myself to God. but suddenlythe old woman came and threw herself at my husband's feet, and, kissingthem, exclaimed, O my son, by the care with which I nursed thee, Iconjure thee to pardon this damsel, for she hath committed no offencethat deserveth such a punishment: thou art young, and I fear the effectof the imprecations that she may utter against thee: and after she hadthus addressed him, she wept, and continued to importune him, until, atlength, he said, I pardon her, but must cause her to bear upon herperson such marks of her offence as shall last for the remainder of herlife. So saying, he commanded the slaves to strip off my vest, and,taking a stick cut from a quince tree, he beat me upon my back and mysides until I became insensible from the violence of the blows, anddespaired of my life. He then ordered the slaves to take me away as soonas it was night, accompanied by the old woman, and to throw me into myhouse in which I formerly resided. They accordingly executed theirlord's commands, and when they had deposited me in my house, I appliedmyself to the healing of my wounds. but, after I had cured myself, mysides still bore the appearance of having been beaten with mira'ahs. Icontinued to apply remedies for four months before I was restored, andthen repaired to view the house in which this event had happened. but Ifound it reduced to ruin, and the whole street pulled down. the site ofthe house I found occupied by mounds of rubbish, and I knew not thecause.Under these circumstances, I went to reside with this my sister, who isof the same father as myself, and I found with her these two bitches.Having saluted her, I informed her of all that had befallen me. to whichshe replied, Who is secure from the afflictions of fortune? Praise be toGod who terminated the affair with safety to thy life! She then relatedto me her own story, and that of her two sisters, and I remained withher, and neither of us ever mentioned the subject of marriage.Afterwards we were joined by this our other sister, the cateress, whoevery day goes out to purchase for us whatever we happen to want.CONCLUSION OF THE STORY OF THE LADIES OF BAGHDAD,  c.The Kaleefeh was astonished at this story, and ordered it to be recordedin a book, as an authentic history, and deposited the book in hislibrary. And he said to the first lady, Knowest thou where theJinneeyeh who enchanted thy sisters is to be found? Sheanswered, O Prince of the Faithful, she gave me a lock of her hair, andsaid, When thou desirest my presence, burn a few of these hairs, and Iwill be with thee quickly, though I should be beyond Mount af. Bringthen the hair, said the Khaleefeh. The lady, therefore, produced it. andthe Khaleefeh, taking it, burned a portion of it, and, when the odourhad diffused itself, the palace shook, and they heard a sound ofthunder, and lo, the Jinneeyeh appeared before them. She was a Muslimeh,and therefore greeted the Khaleefeh by saying, Peace be on thee, OKhaleefeh of God! to which he replied, On you be peace, and the mercyof God, and his blessings! She then said, Know that thislady hath conferred on me a benefit for which I am unable to requiteher. for she rescued me from death, by killing my enemy. and I, havingseen what her sisters had done to her, determined to take vengeance uponthem. therefore I transformed them by enchantment into two bitches. and,indeed, I had wished rather to kill them, fearing lest they shouldtrouble her. but now, if thou desire their restoration, O Prince of theFaithful, I will restore them, as a favour to thee and to her. for I amone of the true believers. Do so, said the Khaleefeh. and then we willenter upon the consideration of the affair of the lady who hath beenbeaten, and examine her case, and if her veracity be established, I willtake vengeance for her upon him who hath oppressed her. The Jinneeyehreplied, O Prince of the Faithful, I will guide thee to the discovery ofhim who acted thus to this lady, and oppressed her, and took herproperty: he is thy nearest relation. She then took a cup of water, and,having pronounced a spell over it, sprinkled the faces of the twobitches, saying, Be restored to your original human forms! whereuponthey became again two young ladies. Extolled be the perfection oftheir Creator! Having done this, the Jinneeyeh said, OPrince of the Faithful, he who beat the lady is thy son El Emeen, whohad heard of her beauty and loveliness: and she proceeded to relatewhat had happened. The Khaleefeh was astonished, and exclaimed, Praisebe to God for the restoration of these two bitches which hath beeneffected through my means! and immediately he summoned before him hisson El Emeen, and inquired of him the history of the lady. and herelated to him the truth. He then sent for aees and witnesses, and thefirst lady and her two sisters who had been transformed into bitches hemarried to the three mendicants who had related that they were the sonsof Kings. and these he made chamberlains of his court, appointing themall that they required, and allotting them apartments in the palace ofBaghdad. The lady who had been beaten he restored to his son El Emeen,giving her a large property, and ordering that the house should berebuilt in a more handsome style. Lastly, the lady cateress he took ashis own wife. he admitted her at once to his own apartment, and, on thefollowing day, he appointed her a separate lodging for herself, withfemale slaves to wait upon her: he also allotted to her a regularincome. and afterwards built for her a palace.