Long, long ago a farmer named Lenine lived in Boscean. He had but oneson, Frank Lenine, who was indulged into waywardness by both his parents.In addition to the farm servants, there was one, a young girl, NancyTrenoweth, who especially assisted Mrs. Lenine in all the various dutiesof a small farmhouse.Nancy Trenoweth was very pretty, and although perfectly uneducated, inthe sense in which we now employ the term education, she possessed manynative graces, and she had acquired much knowledge, really useful to onewhose aspirations would probably never rise higher than to be mistress ofa farm of a few acres.Frank Lenine and Nancy were thrown as much together as if they had beenbrother and sister. Although it was evident to all the parish that Frankand Nancy were seriously devoted to each other, the young man's parentswere blind to it, and were taken by surprise when one day Frank asked hisfather and mother to consent to his marrying Nancy. The old man felt itwould be a degradation for a Lenine to marry a Trenoweth, and, in the mostunreasoning manner, he resolved it should never be.The first act was to send Nancy home to Alsia Mill, where her parentsresided. the next was an imperious command to his son never again to seethe girl. The commands of the old are generally powerless upon the youngwhere the affairs of the heart are concerned. So were they upon Frank. He,who was rarely seen of an evening beyond the garden of his father'scottage, was now as constantly absent from his home.Rarely an evening passed that did not find Nancy and Frank together insome retired nook. The Holy Well was a favorite meeting place, and herethe most solemn vows were made. Locks of hair were exchanged. a weddingring, taken from the finger of a corpse, was broken, when they vowed thatthey would be united either dead or alive. and they even climbed at nightthe granite pile at Treryn, and swore by the Logan Rock the same strongvow.Time passed onward thus unhappily, and, as the result of the endeavorsto quench out the passion by force, it grew stronger under the repressingpower, and, like imprisoned steam, eventually burst through all restraint.Nancy's parents discovered at length that moonlight meetings between twountrained, impulsive youths, had a natural result, and they were nowdoubly earnest in their endeavors to compel Frank to marry theirdaughter.The elder Lenine could not be brought to consent to this, and he firmlyresolved to remove his son entirely from what he considered the hatefulinfluences of the Trenoweths. He resolved to send him away to sea, hopingthus to wean him from this love madness. Frank, poor fellow, with the bestintentions, was not capable of any sustained effort, and consequently heat length succumbed to his father. and, to escape his persecution, heentered a ship bound for India, and bade adieu to his native land.Frank could not write, and this happened in days when letters could beforwarded only with extreme difficulty, consequently Nancy never heardfrom her lover.A baby had been born into a troublesome world, and the infant became areal solace to the young mother. Young Nancy lived for her child, and onthe memory of its father. She felt that no distance could separate theirsouls, that no time could be long enough to destroy the bond betweenthem.The winter was coming on, and nearly three years had passed away sinceFrank Lenine left his country. It was Allhallows Eve, and two of Nancy'scompanions persuaded her no very difficult task to go with them and sowhemp seed.At midnight the three maidens stole out unperceived into Kimyall townplace to perform their incantation. Nancy was the first to sow, the othersbeing less bold than she.Boldly she advanced, saying, as she scattered the seed:Hemp seed I sow thee,Hemp seed grow thee.And he who will my true love be,Come after meAnd shaw thee.This was repeated three times, when looking back over her leftshoulder, she saw Lenine. but he looked so angry that she shrieked withfear, and broke the spell. One of the other girls, however, resolved nowto make trial of the spell, and the result of her labors was the vision ofa white coffin. Fear now fell on all, and they went home sorrowful, tospend each one a sleepless night.November came with its storms, and during one terrific night a largevessel was thrown upon the rocks in Bernowhall Cliff, and, beaten by theimpetuous waves, she was soon in pieces. Amongst the bodies of the crewwashed ashore, nearly all of whom had perished, was Frank Lenine. He wasnot dead when found, but the only words he lived to speak were begging thepeople to send for Nancy Trenoweth, that he might make her his wife beforehe died.Rapidly sinking, Frank was borne by his friends on a litter to Boscean,but he died as he reached the town place. His parents, overwhelmed intheir own sorrows, thought nothing of Nancy, and without her knowing thatLenine had returned, the poor fellow was laid in his last bed, in BurianChurchyard.On the night of the funeral, Nancy went, as was her custom, to lock thedoor of the house, and as was her custom too, she looked out into thenight. At this instant a horseman rode up in hot haste, called her byname, and hailed her in a voice that made her blood boil.The voice was the voice of Lenine. She could never forget that. and thehorse she now saw was her sweetheart's favorite colt, on which he hadoften ridden at night to Alsia. The rider was imperfectly seen. but helooked very sorrowful, and deadly pale, still Nancy knew him to be FrankLenine.He told her that he had just arrived home, and that the first moment hewas at liberty he had taken horse to fetch his loved one, and to make herhis bride. Nancy's excitement was so great, that she was easily persuadedto spring on the horse behind him, that they might reach his home beforethe morning.When she took Lenine's hand a cold shiver passed through her, and asshe grasped his waist to secure herself in her seat, her arm became asstiff as ice. She lost all power of speech, and suffered deep fear, yetshe know not why. The moon had arisen, and now burst out in a full floodof light, through the heavy clouds which had obscured it. The horsepursued its journey with great rapidity, and whenever in weariness itslackened its speed, the peculiar voice of the rider aroused its droopingenergies. Beyond this no word was spoken since Nancy had mounted behindher lover. They now came to Trove Bottom, where there was no bridge atthat time. they dashed into the river. The moon shone full in their faces.Nancy looked into the stream, and saw that the rider was in a shroud andother grave clothes. She now knew that she was being carried away by aspirit, yet she had no power to save herself. indeed, the inclination todo so did not exist.On went the horse at a furious pace, until they came to theblacksmith's shop near Burian Church town, when she knew by the light fromthe forge fire thrown across the road that the smith was still at hislabors. She now recovered speech. "Save me! Save me! Save me!" she criedwith all her might. The smith sprang from the door of the smithy, with ared hot iron in his hand, and as the horse rushed by, caught the woman'sdress and pulled her to the ground. The spirit, however, also seizedNancy's dress in one hand, and his grasp was like that of a vice. Thehorse passed like the wind, and Nancy and the smith were pulled down asfar as the old Almshouses, near the churchyard. Here the horse for amoment stopped. The smith seized that moment, and with his hot iron burnedoff the dress from the rider's hand, thus saving Nancy, more dead thanalive. while the rider passed over the wall of the churchyard, andvanished on the grave in which Lenine had been laid but a few hoursbefore.The smith took Nancy into his shop, and he soon aroused some of hisneighbors, who took the poor girl back to Alsia. Her parents laid her onher bed. She spoke no word, but to ask for her child, to request hermother to give up her child to Lenine's parents, and her desire tobe buried in his grave. Before the morning light fell on the world, Nancyhad breathed her last breath.A horse was seen that night to pass through the Church town like a ballfrom a musket, and in the morning Lenine's colt was found dead inBernowhall Cliff, covered with foam, its eyes forced from its head, andits swollen tongue hanging out of its mouth. On Lenine's grave was foundthe piece of Nancy's dress which was left in the spirit's hand when thesmith burnt her from his grasp.It is said that one or two of the sailors who survived the wreckrelated after the funeral, how, on the 30th of October, at night, Leninewas like one mad. they could scarcely keep him in the ship. He seemed moreasleep than awake, and, after great excitement, he fell as if dead uponthe deck, and lay so for hours. When he came to himself, he told them thathe had been taken to the village of Kimyall, and that if he ever marriedthe woman who had cast the spell, he would make her suffer the longest dayshe had to live for drawing his soul out of his body.Poor Nancy was buried in Lenine's grave, and her companion in sowinghemp seed, who saw the white coffin, slept beside her within the year.