Upon the estate of Hellerup, in the parish of Ljungby, there lived, manyyears ago, a gentleman of rank, who had a daughter renowned for hergentleness as well as for her beauty and intelligence. One night, whilelying awake in her bed, watching the moonbeams dancing upon her chamberfloor, her door was opened and a little fairy, clad in a gray jacket andred cap, tripped lightly in and toward her bed."Do not be afraid, gracious lady!" said he, and looked her in the eye in afriendly manner. "I have come to ask a favor from you.""Willingly, if I can," answered the young lady, who began to recover fromher fear."Oh! it will not be difficult," said the fairy. "I and mine have, for manyyears, lived under the floor in the kitchen, just where the water tankstands, which has become old and leaky, so that we are continually annoyedby the dripping of water, and the maids spill water upon the floor, whichdrips through, so that it is never dry in our home.""That shall be seen to in the morning," promised the lady, and the fairy,making an elegant bow, disappeared as noiselessly as he came.The next day, at the girl's request, the cask was moved, and the gratitudeof the fairies was soon manifested. Never thereafter was a glass or platebroken, and if the servants had work to do that required early rising,they were always awake at the appointed hour.Sometime later the fairy again stood at the young lady's bedside."Now I have another request which, in your generosity, you will certainlynot refuse to grant.""What is it, then?" asked the young lady."That you will honor me and my house, and tonight stand at the christeningof my newly born daughter."The young lady arose and clad herself, and followed her unknown conductorthrough many passages and rooms which she had never before been awareexisted, until she finally came to the kitchen. Here she found a host ofsmall folk and priest and father, whereupon the little child was baptizedin the usual Christian manner.When the young lady was about to go the fairy begged permission to put amemento in her apron.Though what she received looked like a stick and some shavings, sheappeared very thankful, and was conducted again through the windingpassages back to her room.Just as the fairy stood ready to leave her, he said, "If we should meetagain, and that is probable, bear well in mind not to laugh at me or anyof mine. We esteem you for your modesty and goodness, but if you laugh atus, we shall never see each other again." With these words he left theroom.When he had gone the young woman threw her present into the stove and laidherself down to sleep, and the following morning, when the maid went tobuild the fire, she found in the ashes jewelry of the purest gold andfinest workmanship, such as had never before been seen.Some years later the young woman was about to marry, and preparations weremade for a day of pomp and splendor. For many weeks there was great bustlein the kitchen and bridal chamber. During the day all was quiet under thefloor in the kitchen, but through the night one who slept lightly couldhear the sounds of work as through the day. At length the wedding hourarrived.Decked with laurels and crown, the bride was conducted to the hall wherethe guests were gathered. During the ceremonies she chanced to cast aglance toward the fireplace in the corner of the hall, where she saw thefairies gathered for a like feast. The bridegroom was a little fairy andthe bride her goddaughter, and everything was conducted in the same manneras in the hall.None of the guests saw what was going on in their vicinity, but it wasobserved that the bride could not take her eyes from the fireplace. Laterin the evening, when she again saw the strange bridal feast, she saw oneof the fairies who was acting as waiter stumble and fall over a twig.Unmindful of the caution she had received, she burst out into a heartylaugh. Instantly the scene vanished, and from that time no fairies havebeen seen at Hellerup.