Once there was an emperor's daughter who had a moon shaped mark on her forehead, a moon shaped mark on her breast, and one on her back shaped like the stars. The emperor proclaimed throughout the kingdom that whatever man could describe these marks could take her in marriage.Now another emperor's son was her lover, and he knew the marks.At the same time there was a swineherd who tended a sow with twelve golden piglets in the forest. The princess saw the piglets and asked the lad to sell one of them to her."They are not for sale," he replied, "but if you will lift your skirts to your knees, I will give one of them to you."She looked around, making sure that no one else could see, then lifted her skirts to her knees. The lad gave her a piglet.The emperor was delighted with the little animal, for never before had he seen a golden piglet.The next morning the princess went into the woods again, wanting to buy another piglet."They are not for sale," said the swineherd, but if you will lift your skirts to your waist, I will give one of them to you."She did what he wanted, and took the second piglet back to the castle. The emperor was even happier with the new piglet than before.The third morning the princess returned to the woods, but the swineherd would not sell her a another piglet."But," he said, "if you will take off your shift and turn around in front of me three times, I will give you another piglet."The princess did what he wanted, and the swineherd was able to see the sun on her forehead, the moon on her breast, and the stars on her back.The princess returned to the castle with her prize, and the emperor rejoiced with the new golden piglet.He now set the time for the great contest to guess his daughter's birthmarks. One of the suitors was another emperor's son. This prince was her lover, and he knew the marks. In the end, both the swineherd and the prince identified the marks. To settle the matter, the ministers declared that for one night the two rivals and the princess should all three sleep together in one bed. Whoever the princess was embracing the following morning would win her hand in marriage.The swineherd hid a snack in his nightshirt: bread, fruit, and sweets. In the night he began to eat the sweets, and the princess said, "I'm hungry, what are you eating?""I'm eating my lips.""Give me some."So he gave here some of his sweets, which she ate, saying, "Oh, they are sweet!"The prince heard this and replied, "Mine are still sweeter," upon which he took out a knife, cut off his own lips, and handed them to the princess. She threw them onto the floor.Next the swineherd gave the princess some fruit, claiming that it was his nose."Oh, how sweet!" said the princess."Mine is still sweeter," replied the emperor's son, then cut off his own nose and handed it to the princess. Immediately she threw it onto the floor.Finally the swineherd gave the princess some bread, saying that it was his ears.As before the prince cut off his own ears and handed them to the princess, who threw them onto the floor.The prince bled to death, and the princess pushed him out of the bed onto the floor, then took the swineherd into her arms.The next morning the swineherd and the princess were found embracing one another. They dressed the swineherd in clothes befitting an emperor, then he and the princess were joined together in marriage.