In the Garden of Paradise, beneath the Tree of Knowledge,bloomed a rose bush. Here, in the first rose, a bird was born. Hisflight was like the flashing of light, his plumage was beauteous,and his song ravishing. But when Eve plucked the fruit of the treeof knowledge of good and evil, when she and Adam were driven fromParadise, there fell from the flaming sword of the cherub a spark intothe nest of the bird, which blazed up forthwith. The bird perishedin the flames. but from the red egg in the nest there flutteredaloft a new one the one solitary Phoenix bird. The fable tells thathe dwells in Arabia, and that every hundred years, he burns himself todeath in his nest. but each time a new Phoenix, the only one in theworld, rises up from the red egg.The bird flutters round us, swift as light, beauteous in color,charming in song. When a mother sits by her infant's cradle, he standson the pillow, and, with his wings, forms a glory around theinfant's head. He flies through the chamber of content, and bringssunshine into it, and the violets on the humble table smell doublysweet.But the Phoenix is not the bird of Arabia alone. He wings hisway in the glimmer of the Northern Lights over the plains ofLapland, and hops among the yellow flowers in the short Greenlandsummer. Beneath the copper mountains of Fablun, and England's coalmines, he flies, in the shape of a dusty moth, over the hymnbookthat rests on the knees of the pious miner. On a lotus leaf hefloats down the sacred waters of the Ganges, and the eye of the Hindoomaid gleams bright when she beholds him.The Phoenix bird, dost thou not know him? The Bird of Paradise,the holy swan of song! On the car of Thespis he sat in the guise ofa chattering raven, and flapped his black wings, smeared with the leesof wine. over the sounding harp of Iceland swept the swan's redbeak. on Shakspeare's shoulder he sat in the guise of Odin's raven,and whispered in the poet's ear "Immortality!" and at the minstrels'feast he fluttered through the halls of the Wartburg.The Phoenix bird, dost thou not know him? He sang to thee theMarseillaise, and thou kissedst the pen that fell from his wing. hecame in the radiance of Paradise, and perchance thou didst turn awayfrom him towards the sparrow who sat with tinsel on his wings.The Bird of Paradise renewed each century born in flame,ending in flame! Thy picture, in a golden frame, hangs in the halls ofthe rich, but thou thyself often fliest around, lonely anddisregarded, a myth "The Phoenix of Arabia."In Paradise, when thou wert born in the first rose, beneath theTree of Knowledge, thou receivedst a kiss, and thy right name wasgiven thee thy name, Poetry.