Once upon a time there lived a sultan who loved his garden dearly,and planted it with trees and flowers and fruits from all parts ofthe world. He went to see them three times every day: first at seveno'clock, when he got up, then at three, and lastly at half past five.There was no plant and no vegetable which escaped his eye, but helingered longest of all before his one date tree.Now the sultan had seven sons. Six of them he was proud of, for theywere strong and manly, but the youngest he disliked, for he spent allhis time among the women of the house. The sultan had talked to him, andhe paid no heed. and he had beaten him, and he paid no heed. and he hadtied him up, and he paid no heed, till at last his father grew tired oftrying to make him change his ways, and let him alone.Time passed, and one day the sultan, to his great joy, saw signsof fruit on his date tree. And he told his vizir, 'My date tree isbearing.' and he told the officers, 'My date tree is bearing.' and hetold the judges, 'My date tree is bearing.' and he told all the rich menof the town.He waited patiently for some days till the dates were nearly ripe, andthen he called his six sons, and said: 'One of you must watch the datetree till the dates are ripe, for if it is not watched the slaves willsteal them, and I shall not have any for another year.'And the eldest son answered, 'I will go, father,' and he went.The first thing the youth did was to summon his slaves, and bid thembeat drums all night under the date tree, for he feared to fall asleep.So the slaves beat the drums, and the young man danced till fouro'clock, and then it grew so cold he could dance no longer, and oneof the slaves said to him: 'It is getting light. the tree is safe. liedown, master, and go to sleep.'So he lay down and slept, and his slaves slept likewise.A few minutes went by, and a bird flew down from a neighbouring thicket,and ate all the dates, without leaving a single one. And when the treewas stripped bare, the bird went as it had come. Soon after, one of theslaves woke up and looked for the dates, but there were no dates to see.Then he ran to the young man and shook him, saying:'Your father set you to watch the tree, and you have not watched, andthe dates have all been eaten by a bird.'The lad jumped up and ran to the tree to see for himself, but there wasnot a date anywhere. And he cried aloud, 'What am I to say to my father?Shall I tell him that the dates have been stolen, or that a great rainfell and a great storm blew? But he will send me to gather them up andbring them to him, and there are none to bring! Shall I tell him thatBedouins drove me away, and when I returned there were no dates? And hewill answer, "You had slaves, did they not fight with the Bedouins?" Itis the truth that will be best, and that will I tell him.'Then he went straight to his father, and found him sitting in hisverandah with his five sons round him. and the lad bowed his head.'Give me the news from the garden,' said the sultan.And the youth answered, 'The dates have all been eaten by some bird:there is not one left.'The sultan was silent for a moment: then he asked, 'Where were you whenthe bird came?'The lad answered: 'I watched the date tree till the cocks were crowingand it was getting light. then I lay down for a little, and I slept.When I woke a slave was standing over me, and he said, "There is notone date left on the tree!" And I went to the date tree, and saw it wastrue. and that is what I have to tell you.'And the sultan replied, 'A son like you is only good for eating andsleeping. I have no use for you. Go your way, and when my date treebears again, I will send another son. perhaps he will watch better.'So he waited many months, till the tree was covered with more dates thanany tree had ever borne before. When they were near ripening he sent oneof his sons to the garden: saying, 'My son, I am longing to taste thosedates: go and watch over them, for to day's sun will bring them toperfection.'And the lad answered: 'My father, I am going now, and to morrow, whenthe sun has passed the hour of seven, bid a slave come and gather thedates.''Good,' said the sultan.The youth went to the tree, and lay down and slept. And about midnighthe arose to look at the tree, and the dates were all there beautifuldates, swinging in bunches.'Ah, my father will have a feast, indeed,' thought he. 'What a fool mybrother was not to take more heed! Now he is in disgrace, and we knowhim no more. Well, I will watch till the bird comes. I should like tosee what manner of bird it is.'And he sat and read till the cocks crew and it grew light, and the dateswere still on the tree.'Oh my father will have his dates. they are all safe now,' he thoughtto himself. 'I will make myself comfortable against this tree,' and heleaned against the trunk, and sleep came on him, and the bird flew downand ate all the dates.When the sun rose, the head man came and looked for the dates, and therewere no dates. And he woke the young man, and said to him, 'Look at thetree.'And the young man looked, and there were no dates. And his ears werestopped, and his legs trembled, and his tongue grew heavy at the thoughtof the sultan. His slave became frightened as he looked at him, andasked, 'My master, what is it?'He answered, 'I have no pain anywhere, but I am ill everywhere. My wholebody is well, and my whole body is sick I fear my father, for did I notsay to him, "To morrow at seven you shall taste the dates"? And hewill drive me away, as he drove away my brother! I will go away myself,before he sends me.'Then he got up and took a road that led straight past the palace, buthe had not walked many steps before he met a man carrying a large silverdish, covered with a white cloth to cover the dates.And the young man said, 'The dates are not ripe yet. you must returnto morrow.'And the slave went with him to the palace, where the sultan was sittingwith his four sons.'Good greeting, master!' said the youth.And the sultan answered, 'Have you seen the man I sent?''I have, master. but the dates are not yet ripe.'But the sultan did not believe his words, and said. 'This second year Ihave eaten no dates, because of my sons. Go your ways, you are my son nolonger!'And the sultan looked at the four sons that were left him, and promisedrich gifts to whichever of them would bring him the dates from the tree.But year by year passed, and he never got them. One son tried to keephimself awake with playing cards. another mounted a horse and rode roundand round the tree, while the two others, whom their father as a lasthope sent together, lit bonfires. But whatever they did, the result wasalways the same. Towards dawn they fell asleep, and the bird ate thedates on the tree.The sixth year had come, and the dates on the tree were thicker thanever. And the head man went to the palace and told the sultan what hehad seen. But the sultan only shook his head, and said sadly, 'Whatis that to me? I have had seven sons, yet for five years a bird hasdevoured my dates. and this year it will be the same as ever.'Now the youngest son was sitting in the kitchen, as was his custom, whenhe heard his father say those words. And he rose up, and went to hisfather, and knelt before him. 'Father, this year you shall eat dates,'cried he. 'And on the tree are five great bunches, and each bunch I willgive to a separate nation, for the nations in the town are five. Thistime, I will watch the date tree myself.' But his father and his motherlaughed heartily, and thought his words idle talk.One day, news was brought to the sultan that the dates were ripe, and heordered one of his men to go and watch the tree. His son, who happenedto be standing by, heard the order, and he said:'How is it that you have bidden a man to watch the tree, when I, yourson, am left?'And his father answered, 'Ah, six were of no use, and where they failed,will you succeed?'But the boy replied: 'Have patience to day, and let me go, and to morrowyou shall see whether I bring you dates or not.''Let the child go, Master,' said his wife. 'perhaps we shall eat thedates or perhaps we shall not but let him go.'And the sultan answered: 'I do not refuse to let him go, but my heartdistrusts him. His brothers all promised fair, and what did they do?'But the boy entreated, saying, 'Father, if you and I and mother be aliveto morrow, you shall eat the dates.''Go then,' said his father.When the boy reached the garden, he told the slaves to leave him, andto return home themselves and sleep. When he was alone, he laid himselfdown and slept fast till one o'clock, when he arose, and sat oppositethe date tree. Then he took some Indian corn out of one fold of hisdress, and some sandy grit out of another.And he chewed the corn till he felt he was growing sleepy, and thenhe put some grit into his mouth, and that kept him awake till the birdcame.It looked about at first without seeing him, and whispering to itself,'There is no one here,' fluttered lightly on to the tree and stretchedout his beak for the dates. Then the boy stole softly up, and caught itby the wing.The bird turned and flew quickly away, but the boy never let go, noteven when they soared high into the air.'Son of Adam,' the bird said when the tops of the mountains looked smallbelow them, 'if you fall, you will be dead long before you reach theground, so go your way, and let me go mine.'But the boy answered, 'Wherever you go, I will go with you. You cannotget rid of me.''I did not eat your dates,' persisted the bird, 'and the day is dawning.Leave me to go my way.'But again the boy answered him: 'My six brothers are hateful to myfather because you came and stole the dates, and to day my father shallsee you, and my brothers shall see you, and all the people of the town,great and small, shall see you. And my father's heart will rejoice.''Well, if you will not leave me, I will throw you off,' said the bird.So it flew up higher still so high that the earth shone like one of theother stars.'How much of you will be left if you fall from here?' asked the bird.'If I die, I die,' said the boy, 'but I will not leave you.'And the bird saw it was no use talking, and went down to the earthagain.'Here you are at home, so let me go my way,' it begged once more. 'or atleast make a covenant with me.''What covenant?' said the boy.'Save me from the sun,' replied the bird, 'and I will save you fromrain.''How can you do that, and how can I tell if I can trust you?''Pull a feather from my tail, and put it in the fire, and if you want meI will come to you, wherever I am.'And the boy answered, 'Well, I agree. go your way.''Farewell, my friend. When you call me, if it is from the depths of thesea, I will come.'The lad watched the bird out of sight. then he went straight to the datetree. And when he saw the dates his heart was glad, and his body feltstronger and his eyes brighter than before. And he laughed out loud withjoy, and said to himself, 'This is MY luck, mine, Sit in the kitchen!Farewell, date tree, I am going to lie down. What ate you will eat youno more.'The sun was high in the sky before the head man, whose business it was,came to look at the date tree, expecting to find it stripped of allits fruit, but when he saw the dates so thick that they almost hid theleaves he ran back to his house, and beat a big drum till everybody camerunning, and even the little children wanted to know what had happened.'What is it? What is it, head man?' cried they.'Ah, it is not a son that the master has, but a lion! This daySit in the kitchen has uncovered his face before his father!''But how, head man?''To day the people may eat the dates.''Is it true, head man?''Oh yes, it is true, but let him sleep till each man has brought fortha present. He who has fowls, let him take fowls. he who has a goat, lethim take a goat. he who has rice, let him take rice.' And the people didas he had said.Then they took the drum, and went to the tree where the boy laysleeping.And they picked him up, and carried him away, with horns and clarionetsand drums, with clappings of hands and shrieks of joy, straight to hisfather's house.When his father heard the noise and saw the baskets made of greenleaves, brimming over with dates, and his son borne high on the necks ofslaves, his heart leaped, and he said to himself 'To day at last I shalleat dates.' And he called his wife to see what her son had done, andordered his soldiers to take the boy and bring him to his father.'What news, my son?' said he.'News? I have no news, except that if you will open your mouth you shallsee what dates taste like.' And he plucked a date, and put it into hisfather's mouth.'Ah! You are indeed my son,' cried the sultan. 'You do not take afterthose fools, those good for nothings. But, tell me, what did you do withthe bird, for it was you, and you only who watched for it?''Yes, it was I who watched for it and who saw it. And it will not comeagain, neither for its life, nor for your life, nor for the lives ofyour children.''Oh, once I had six sons, and now I have only one. It is you, whom Icalled a fool, who have given me the dates: as for the others, I wantnone of them.'But his wife rose up and went to him, and said, 'Master, do not, I prayyou, reject them,' and she entreated long, till the sultan granted herprayer, for she loved the six elder ones more than her last one.So they all lived quietly at home, till the sultan's cat went and caughta calf. And the owner of the calf went and told the sultan, but heanswered, 'The cat is mine, and the calf mine,' and the man dared notcomplain further.Two days after, the cat caught a cow, and the sultan was told, 'Master,the cat has caught a cow,' but he only said, 'It was my cow and my cat.'And the cat waited a few days, and then it caught a donkey, and theytold the sultan, 'Master, the cat has caught a donkey,' and he said,'My cat and my donkey.' Next it was a horse, and after that a camel, andwhen the sultan was told he said, 'You don't like this cat, and want meto kill it. And I shall not kill it. Let it eat the camel: let it eveneat a man.'And it waited till the next day, and caught some one's child. And thesultan was told, 'The cat has caught a child.' And he said, 'The cat ismine and the child mine.' Then it caught a grown up man.After that the cat left the town and took up its abode in a thicket nearthe road. So if any one passed, going for water, it devoured him. If itsaw a cow going to feed, it devoured him. If it saw a goat, it devouredhim. Whatever went along that road the cat caught and ate.Then the people went to the sultan in a body, and told him of all themisdeeds of that cat. But he answered as before, 'The cat is mine andthe people are mine.' And no man dared kill the cat, which grew bolderand bolder, and at last came into the town to look for its prey.One day, the sultan said to his six sons, 'I am going into the country,to see how the wheat is growing, and you shall come with me.' They wenton merrily along the road, till they came to a thicket, when out sprangthe cat, and killed three of the sons.'The cat! The cat!' shrieked the soldiers who were with him. And thistime the sultan said:'Seek for it and kill it. It is no longer a cat, but a demon!'And the soldiers answered him, 'Did we not tell you, master, what thecat was doing, and did you not say, "My cat and my people"?'And he answered: 'True, I said it.'Now the youngest son had not gone with the rest, but had stayed at homewith his mother. and when he heard that his brothers had been killedby the cat he said, 'Let me go, that it may slay me also.' His motherentreated him not to leave her, but he would not listen, and he took hissword and a spear and some rice cakes, and went after the cat, which bythis time had run of to a great distance.The lad spent many days hunting the cat, which now bore the name of 'TheNunda, eater of people,' but though he killed many wild animals he sawno trace of the enemy he was hunting for. There was no beast, howeverfierce, that he was afraid of, till at last his father and mother beggedhim to give up the chase after the Nunda.But he answered: 'What I have said, I cannot take back. If I am to die,then I die, but every day I must go and seek for the Nunda.'And again his father offered him what he would, even the crown itself,but the boy would hear nothing, and went on his way.Many times his slaves came and told him, 'We have seen footprints, andto day we shall behold the Nunda.' But the footprints never turned outto be those of the Nunda. They wandered far through deserts and throughforests, and at length came to the foot of a great hill. And somethingin the boy's soul whispered that here was the end of all their seeking,and to day they would find the Nunda.But before they began to climb the mountain the boy ordered his slavesto cook some rice, and they rubbed the stick to make a fire, and whenthe fire was kindled they cooked the rice and ate it. Then they begantheir climb.Suddenly, when they had almost reached the top, a slave who was on infront cried:'Master! Master!' And the boy pushed on to where the slave stood, andthe slave said:'Cast your eyes down to the foot of the mountain.' And the boy looked,and his soul told him it was the Nunda.And he crept down with his spear in his hand, and then he stopped andgazed below him.'This MUST be the real Nunda,' thought he. 'My mother told me its earswere small, and this one's are small. She told me it was broad and notlong, and this is broad and not long. She told me it had spots like acivet cat, and this has spots like a civet cat.'Then he left the Nunda lying asleep at the foot of the mountain, andwent back to his slaves.'We will feast to day,' he said. 'make cakes of batter, and bringwater,' and they ate and drank. And when they had finished he bade themhide the rest of the food in the thicket, that if they slew the Nundathey might return and eat and sleep before going back to the town. Andthe slaves did as he bade them.It was now afternoon, and the lad said: 'It is time we went after theNunda.' And they went till they reached the bottom and came to a greatforest which lay between them and the Nunda.Here the lad stopped, and ordered every slave that wore two cloths tocast one away and tuck up the other between his legs. 'For,' said he,'the wood is not a little one. Perhaps we may be caught by the thorns,or perhaps we may have to run before the Nunda, and the cloth might bindour legs, and cause us to fall before it.'And they answered, 'Good, master,' and did as he bade them. Then theycrawled on their hands and knees to where the Nunda lay asleep.Noiselessly they crept along till they were quite close to it. then, ata sign from the boy, they threw their spears. The Nunda did not stir:the spears had done their work, but a great fear seized them all, andthey ran away and climbed the mountain.The sun was setting when they reached the top, and glad they were totake out the fruit and the cakes and the water which they had hiddenaway, and sit down and rest themselves. And after they had eaten andwere filled, they lay down and slept till morning.When the dawn broke they rose up and cooked more rice, and drank morewater. After that they walked all round the back of the mountain to theplace where they had left the Nunda, and they saw it stretched out wherethey had found it, stiff and dead. And they took it up and carried itback to the town, singing as they went, 'He has killed the Nunda, theeater of people.'And when his father heard the news, and that his son was come, and wasbringing the Nunda with him, he felt that the man did not dwell on theearth whose joy was greater than his. And the people bowed down to theboy and gave him presents, and loved him, because he had delivered themfrom the bondage of fear, and had slain the Nunda.(Adapted from Swahili Tales.)