Long, long ago, in old Japan, the Kingdom of the Sea was governed by awonderful King. He was called Rin Jin, or the Dragon King of the Sea.His power was immense, for he was the ruler of all sea creatures bothgreat and small, and in his keeping were the Jewels of the Ebb and Flowof the Tide. The Jewel of the Ebbing Tide when thrown into the oceancaused the sea to recede from the land, and the Jewel of the FlowingTide made the waves to rise mountains high and to flow in upon theshore like a tidal wave.The Palace of Rin Jin was at the bottom of the sea, and was sobeautiful that no one has ever seen anything like it even in dreams.The walls were of coral, the roof of jadestone and chrysoprase, and thefloors were of the finest mother of pearl. But the Dragon King, inspite of his wide spreading Kingdom, his beautiful Palace and all itswonders, and his power which none disputed throughout the whole sea,was not at all happy, for he reigned alone. At last he thought that ifhe married he would not only be happier, but also more powerful. So hedecided to take a wife. Calling all his fish retainers together, hechose several of them as ambassadors to go through the sea and seek fora young Dragon Princess who would be his bride.At last they returned to the Palace bringing with them a lovely youngdragon. Her scales were of glittering green like the wings of summerbeetles, her eyes threw out glances of fire, and she was dressed ingorgeous robes. All the jewels of the sea worked in with embroideryadorned them.The King fell in love with her at once, and the wedding ceremony wascelebrated with great splendor. Every living thing in the sea, from thegreat whales down to the little shrimps, came in shoals to offer theircongratulations to the bride and bridegroom and to wish them a long andprosperous life. Never had there been such an assemblage or such gayfestivities in the Fish World before. The train of bearers who carriedthe bride's possessions to her new home seemed to reach across thewaves from one end of the sea to the other. Each fish carried aphosphorescent lantern and was dressed in ceremonial robes, gleamingblue and pink and silver. and the waves as they rose and fell and brokethat night seemed to be rolling masses of white and green fire, for thephosphorus shone with double brilliancy in honor of the event.Now for a time the Dragon King and his bride lived very happily. Theyloved each other dearly, and the bridegroom day after day took delightin showing his bride all the wonders and treasures of his coral Palace,and she was never tired of wandering with him through its vast hallsand gardens. Life seemed to them both like a long summer's day.Two months passed in this happy way, and then the Dragon Queen fell illand was obliged to stay in bed. The King was sorely troubled when hesaw his precious bride so ill, and at once sent for the fish doctor tocome and give her some medicine. He gave special orders to the servantsto nurse her carefully and to wait upon her with diligence, but inspite of all the nurses' assiduous care and the medicine that thedoctor prescribed, the young Queen showed no signs of recovery, butgrew daily worse.Then the Dragon King interviewed the doctor and blamed him for notcuring the Queen. The doctor was alarmed at Rin Jin's evidentdispleasure, and excused his want of skill by saying that although heknew the right kind of medicine to give the invalid, it was impossibleto find it in the sea."Do you mean to tell me that you can't get the medicine here?" askedthe Dragon King."It is just as you say!" said the doctor."Tell me what it is you want for the Queen?" demanded Rin Jin."I want the liver of a live monkey!" answered the doctor."The liver of a live monkey! Of course that will be most difficult toget," said the King."If we could only get that for the Queen, Her Majesty would soonrecover," said the doctor."Very well, that decides it. we MUST get it somehow or other. But whereare we most likely to find a monkey?" asked the King.Then the doctor told the Dragon King that some distance to the souththere was a Monkey Island where a great many monkeys lived."If only you could capture one of these monkeys?" said the doctor."How can any of my people capture a monkey?" said the Dragon King,greatly puzzled. "The monkeys live on dry land, while we live in thewater. and out of our element we are quite powerless! I don't see whatwe can do!""That has been my difficulty too," said the doctor. "But amongst yourinnumerable servants you surely can find one who can go on shore forthat express purpose!""Something must be done," said the King, and calling his chief stewardhe consulted him on the matter.The chief steward thought for some time, and then, as if struck by asudden thought, said joyfully:"I know what we must do! There is the kurage (jelly fish). He iscertainly ugly to look at, but he is proud of being able to walk onland with his four legs like a tortoise. Let us send him to the Islandof Monkeys to catch one."The jelly fish was then summoned to the King's presence, and was toldby His Majesty what was required of him.The jelly fish, on being told of the unexpected mission which was to beintrusted to him, looked very troubled, and said that he had never beento the island in question, and as he had never had any experience incatching monkeys he was afraid that he would not be able to get one."Well," said the chief steward, "if you depend on your strength ordexterity you will never catch a monkey. The only way is to play atrick on one!""How can I play a trick on a monkey? I don't know how to do it," saidthe perplexed jelly fish."This is what you must do," said the wily chief steward. "When youapproach the Island of Monkeys and meet some of them, you must try toget very friendly with one. Tell him that you are a servant of theDragon King, and invite him to come and visit you and see the DragonKing's Palace. Try and describe to him as vividly as you can thegrandeur of the Palace and the wonders of the sea so as to arouse hiscuriosity and make him long to see it all!""But how am I to get the monkey here? You know monkeys don't swim?"said the reluctant jelly fish."You must carry him on your back. What is the use of your shell if youcan't do that!" said the chief steward."Won't he be very heavy?" queried kurage again."You mustn't mind that, for you are working for the Dragon King,"replied the chief steward."I will do my best then," said the jelly fish, and he swam away fromthe Palace and started off towards the Monkey Island. Swimming swiftlyhe reached his destination in a few hours, and landed by a convenientwave upon the shore. On looking round he saw not far away a bigpine tree with drooping branches and on one of those branches was justwhat he was looking for a live monkey."I'm in luck!" thought the jelly fish. "Now I must flatter the creatureand try to entice him to come back with me to the Palace, and my partwill be done!"So the jelly fish slowly walked towards the pine tree. In those ancientdays the jelly fish had four legs and a hard shell like a tortoise.When he got to the pine tree he raised his voice and said:"How do you do, Mr. Monkey? Isn't it a lovely day?""A very fine day," answered the monkey from the tree. "I have neverseen you in this part of the world before. Where have you come from andwhat is your name?""My name is kurage or jelly fish. I am one of the servants of theDragon King. I have heard so much of your beautiful island that I havecome on purpose to see it," answered the jelly fish."I am very glad to see you," said the monkey."By the bye," said the jelly fish, "have you ever seen the Palace ofthe Dragon King of the Sea where I live?""I have often heard of it, but I have never seen it!" answered themonkey."Then you ought most surely to come. It is a great pity for you to gothrough life without seeing it. The beauty of the Palace is beyond alldescription it is certainly to my mind the most lovely place in theworld," said the jelly fish."Is it so beautiful as all that?" asked the monkey in astonishment.Then the jelly fish saw his chance, and went on describing to the bestof his ability the beauty and grandeur of the Sea King's Palace, andthe wonders of the garden with its curious trees of white, pink and redcoral, and the still more curious fruits like great jewels hanging onthe branches. The monkey grew more and more interested, and as helistened he came down the tree step by step so as not to lose a word ofthe wonderful story."I have got him at last!" thought the jelly fish, but aloud he said:"Mr. Monkey. I must now go back. As you have never seen the Palace ofthe Dragon King, won't you avail yourself of this splendid opportunityby coming with me? I shall then be able to act as guide and show youall the sights of the sea, which will be even more wonderful to you aland lubber.""I should love to go," said the monkey, "but how am I to cross thewater! I can't swim, as you surely know!""There is no difficulty about that. I can carry you on my back.""That will be troubling you too much," said the monkey."I can do it quite easily. I am stronger than I look, so you needn'thesitate," said the jelly fish, and taking the monkey on his back hestepped into the sea."Keep very still, Mr. monkey," said the jelly fish. "You mustn't fallinto the sea. I am responsible for your safe arrival at the King'sPalace.""Please don't go so fast, or I am sure I shall fall off," said themonkey.Thus they went along, the jelly fish skimming through the waves withthe monkey sitting on his back. When they were about half way, thejelly fish, who knew very little of anatomy, began to wonder if themonkey had his liver with him or not!"Mr. Monkey, tell me, have you such a thing as a liver with you?"The monkey was very much surprised at this queer question, and askedwhat the jelly fish wanted with a liver."That is the most important thing of all," said the stupid jelly fish,"so as soon as I recollected it, I asked you if you had yours with you?""Why is my liver so important to you?" asked the monkey."Oh! you will learn the reason later," said the jelly fish.The monkey grew more and more curious and suspicious, and urged thejelly fish to tell him for what his liver was wanted, and ended up byappealing to his hearer's feelings by saying that he was very troubledat what he had been told.Then the jelly fish, seeing how anxious the monkey looked, was sorryfor him, and told him everything. How the Dragon Queen had fallen ill,and how the doctor had said that only the liver of a live monkey wouldcure her, and how the Dragon King had sent him to find one."Now I have done as I was told, and as soon as we arrive at the Palacethe doctor will want your liver, so I feel sorry for you!" said thesilly jelly fish.The poor monkey was horrified when he learnt all this, and very angryat the trick played upon him. He trembled with fear at the thought ofwhat was in store for him.But the monkey was a clever animal, and he thought it the wisest plannot to show any sign of the fear he felt, so he tried to calm himselfand to think of some way by which he might escape."The doctor means to cut me open and then take my liver out! Why Ishall die!" thought the monkey. At last a bright thought struck him, sohe said quite cheerfully to the jelly fish:"What a pity it was, Mr. Jelly Fish, that you did not speak of thisbefore we left the island!""If I had told why I wanted you to accompany me you would certainlyhave refused to come," answered the jelly fish."You are quite mistaken," said the monkey. "Monkeys can very well sparea liver or two, especially when it is wanted for the Dragon Queen ofthe Sea. If I had only guessed of what you were in need. I should havepresented you with one without waiting to be asked. I have severallivers. But the greatest pity is, that as you did not speak in time, Ihave left all my livers hanging on the pine tree.""Have you left your liver behind you?" asked the jelly fish."Yes," said the cunning monkey, "during the daytime I usually leave myliver hanging up on the branch of a tree, as it is very much in the waywhen I am climbing about from tree to tree. To day, listening to yourinteresting conversation, I quite forgot it, and left it behind when Icame off with you. If only you had spoken in time I should haveremembered it, and should have brought it along with me!"The jelly fish was very disappointed when he heard this, for hebelieved every word the monkey said. The monkey was of no good withouta liver. Finally the jelly fish stopped and told the monkey so."Well," said the monkey, "that is soon remedied. I am really sorry tothink of all your trouble. but if you will only take me back to theplace where you found me, I shall soon be able to get my liver."The jelly fish did not at all like the idea of going all the way backto the island again. but the monkey assured him that if he would be sokind as to take him back he would get his very best liver, and bring itwith him the next time. Thus persuaded, the jelly fish turned hiscourse towards the Monkey Island once more.No sooner had the jelly fish reached the shore than the sly monkeylanded, and getting up into the pine tree where the jelly fish hadfirst seen him, he cut several capers amongst the branches with joy atbeing safe home again, and then looking down at the jelly fish said:"So many thanks for all the trouble you have taken! Please present mycompliments to the Dragon King on your return!"The jelly fish wondered at this speech and the mocking tone in which itwas uttered. Then he asked the monkey if it wasn't his intention tocome with him at once after getting his liver.The monkey replied laughingly that he couldn't afford to lose hisliver: it was too precious."But remember your promise!" pleaded the jelly fish, now verydiscouraged."That promise was false, and anyhow it is now broken!" answered themonkey. Then he began to jeer at the jelly fish and told him that hehad been deceiving him the whole time. that he had no wish to lose hislife, which he certainly would have done had he gone on to the SeaKing's Palace to the old doctor waiting for him, instead of persuadingthe jelly fish to return under false pretenses."Of course, I won't GIVE you my liver, but come and get it if you can!"added the monkey mockingly from the tree.There was nothing for the jelly fish to do now but to repent of hisstupidity, and to return to the Dragon King of the Sea and to confesshis failure, so he started sadly and slowly to swim back. The lastthing he heard as he glided away, leaving the island behind him, wasthe monkey laughing at him.Meanwhile the Dragon King, the doctor, the chief steward, and all theservants were waiting impatiently for the return of the jelly fish.When they caught sight of him approaching the Palace, they hailed himwith delight. They began to thank him profusely for all the trouble hehad taken in going to Monkey Island, and then they asked him where themonkey was.Now the day of reckoning had come for the jelly fish. He quaked allover as he told his story. How he had brought the monkey halfway overthe sea, and then had stupidly let out the secret of his commission.how the monkey had deceived him by making him believe that he had lefthis liver behind him.The Dragon King's wrath was great, and he at once gave orders that thejelly fish was to be severely punished. The punishment was a horribleone. All the bones were to be drawn out from his living body, and hewas to be beaten with sticks.The poor jelly fish, humiliated and horrified beyond all words, criedout for pardon. But the Dragon King's order had to be obeyed. Theservants of the Palace forthwith each brought out a stick andsurrounded the jelly fish, and after pulling out his bones they beathim to a flat pulp, and then took him out beyond the Palace gates andthrew him into the water. Here he was left to suffer and repent hisfoolish chattering, and to grow accustomed to his new state ofbonelessness.From this story it is evident that in former times the jelly fish oncehad a shell and bones something like a tortoise, but, ever since theDragon King's sentence was carried out on the ancestor of the jellyfishes, his descendants have all been soft and boneless just as you seethem to day thrown up by the waves high upon the shores of Japan.