My third brother's name was Al Fakik, the Gabbler, who was blind.One day Fate and Fortune drove him to a fine large house, and heknocked at the door, desiring speech of its owner that he mightbeg somewhat of him. Quoth the master of the house, "Who is atthe door?" But my brother spake not a word and presently he heardhim repeat with a loud voice, "Who is this?" Still he made noanswer and immediately heard the master walk to the door and openit and say, "What dost thou want?" My brother answered "Somethingfor Allah Almighty's sake." "Art thou blind?" asked theman, and my brother answered "Yes." Quoth the other, "Stretch meout thy hand." So my brother put out his hand thinking that hewould give him something. but he took it and, drawing him intothe house, carried him up from stair to stair till they reachedthe terrace on the house top, my brother thinking the while thathe would surely give him something of food or money. Then heasked my brother, "What dost thou want, O blind man?" and heanswered, "Something for the Almighty's sake." "Allah open forthee some other door!" "O thou! why not say so when I was belowstairs?" "O cadger, why not answer me when I first called tothee?" "And what meanest thou to do for me now?" "There isnothing in the house to give thee." "Then take me down thestair." "The path is before thee." So my brother rose and madehis way downstairs, till he came within twenty steps of the door,when his foot slipped and he rolled to the bottom and broke hishead. Then he went out, unknowing whither to turn, and presentlyfell in with two other blind men, companions of his, who said tohim, "What didst thou gain to day?" He told them what hadbefallen him and added, "O my brothers, I wish to take some ofthe money in my hands and provide myself with it." Now the masterof the house had followed him and was listening to what theysaid. but neither my brother nor his comrades knew of this. So mybrother went to his lodging and sat down to await his companions,and the house owner entered after him without being perceived.When the other blind men arrived, my brother said to them, "Boltthe door and search the house lest any stranger have followedus." The man, hearing this, caught hold of a cord that hung fromthe ceiling and clung to it, whilst they went round about thehouse and searched but found no one. So they came back, and,sitting beside my brother, brought out their money which theycounted and lo! it was twelve thousand dirhams. Each took what hewanted and they buried the rest in a corner of the room. Thenthey set on food and sat down, to eat. Presently my brother,hearing a strange pair of jaws munching by his side, saidto his friends, "There is a stranger amongst us." and, puttingforth his hand, caught hold of that of the house master.Thereupon all fell on him and beat him. and when tired ofbelabouring him they shouted, "O ye Moslems! a thief is come into us, seeking to take our money!" A crowd gathered around them,whereupon the intruder hung on to them. and complained with themas they complained, and, shutting his eyes like them, so thatnone might doubt his blindness, cried out, "O Moslems, I takerefuge with Allah and the Governor, for I have a matter to makeknown to him!" Suddenly up came the watch and, laying hands onthe whole lot (my brother being amongst them), drove themto the Governor's who set them before him and asked, "What newswith you?" Quoth the intruder, "Look and find out for thyself,not a word shall be wrung from us save by torture, so begin bybeating me and after me beat this man our leader." And hepointed to my brother. So they threw the man at full length andgave him four hundred sticks on his backside. The beating painedhim, whereupon he opened one eye and, as they redoubled theirblows, he opened the other eye. When the Governor saw this hesaid to him, "What have we here, O accursed?". whereto hereplied, "Give me the seal ring of pardon! We four have shammedblind, and we impose upon people that we may enter houses andlook upon the unveiled faces of the women and contrive for theircorruption. In this way we have gotten great gain and our storeamounts to twelve thousand dirhams. Said I to my company, 'Giveme my share, three thousand.' but they rose and beat me and tookaway my money, and I seek refuge with Allah and with thee. betterthou have my share than they. So, if thou wouldst know the truthof my words, beat one and every of the others more than thou hastbeaten me, and he will surely open his eyes." The Governor gaveorders for the question to begin with my brother, and they boundhim to the whipping post, and the Governor said, "O scumof the earth, do ye abuse the gracious gifts of Allah and make asif ye were blind!" "Allah! Allah!" cried my brother, "by Allah,there is none among us who can see." Then they beat him till heswooned away and the Governor cried, "Leave him till he come toand then beat him again." After this he caused each of thecompanions to receive more than three hundred sticks, whilst thesham Abraham kept saying to them "Open your eyes or you will bebeaten afresh." At last the man said to the Governor, "Dispatchsome one with me to bring thee the money. for these fellows willnot open their eyes, lest they incur disgrace before the folk."So the Governor sent to fetch the money and gave the man hispretended share, three thousand dirhams. and, keeping the restfor himself, banished the three blind men from the city. But I, OCommander of the Faithful, went out and overtaking my brotherquestioned him of his case. whereupon he told me of what I havetold thee. so I brought him secretly into the city, and appointedhim (in the strictest privacy) an allowance for meat and drink!The Caliph laughed at my story and said, "Give him a gift and lethim go." but I said, "By Allah! I will take naught till I havemade known to the Commander of the Faithful what came to passwith the rest of my brothers. for truly I am a man of few wordsand spare of speech." Then the Caliph gave ear to