There was once a little boy who had caught cold. he had gone outand got wet feet. Nobody had the least idea how it had happened. theweather was quite dry. His mother undressed him, put him to bed, andordered the teapot to be brought in, that she might make him a goodcup of tea from the elder tree blossoms, which is so warming. At thesame time, the kind hearted old man who lived by himself in theupper storey of the house came in. he led a lonely life, for he had nowife and children. but he loved the children of others very much,and he could tell so many fairy tales and stories, that it was apleasure to hear him."Now, drink your tea," said the mother. "perhaps you will hear astory.""Yes, if I only knew a fresh one," said the old man, and noddedsmilingly. "But how did the little fellow get his wet feet?" he thenasked."That," replied the mother, "nobody can understand.""Will you tell me a story?" asked the boy."Yes, if you can tell me as nearly as possible how deep is thegutter in the little street where you go to school.""Just half as high as my top boots," replied the boy. "but thenI must stand in the deepest holes.""There, now we know where you got your wet feet," said the oldman. "I ought to tell you a story, but the worst of it is, I do notknow any more.""You can make one up," said the little boy. "Mother says you cantell a fairy tale about anything you look at or touch.""That is all very well, but such tales or stories are worthnothing! No, the right ones come by themselves and knock at myforehead saying: 'Here I am.'""Will not one knock soon?" asked the boy. and the mother smiledwhile she put elder tree blossoms into the teapot and poured boilingwater over them. "Pray, tell me a story.""Yes, if stories came by themselves. they are so proud, theyonly come when they please. But wait," he said suddenly, "there isone. Look at the teapot. there is a story in it now."And the little boy looked at the teapot. the lid rose upgradually, the elder tree blossoms sprang forth one by one, freshand white. long boughs came forth. even out of the spout they grewup in all directions, and formed a bush nay, a large elder tree,which stretched its branches up to the bed and pushed the curtainsaside. and there were so many blossoms and such a sweet fragrance!In the midst of the tree sat a kindly looking old woman with a strangedress. it was as green as the leaves, and trimmed with large whiteblossoms, so that it was difficult to say whether it was real cloth,or the leaves and blossoms of the elder tree."What is this woman's name?" asked the little boy."Well, the Romans and Greeks used to call her a Dryad," said theold man. "but we do not understand that. Out in the sailors' quarterthey give her a better name. there she is called elder tree mother.Now, you must attentively listen to her and look at the beautifulelder tree."Just such a large tree, covered with flowers, stands out there.it grew in the corner of an humble little yard. under this tree sattwo old people one afternoon in the beautiful sunshine. He was an old,old sailor, and she his old wife. they had already great grandchildren,and were soon to celebrate their golden wedding, but they could notremember the date, and the elder tree mother was sitting in the treeand looked as pleased as this one here. 'I know very well when thegolden wedding is to take place,' she said. but they did not hearit they were talking of bygone days."'Well, do you remember?' said the old sailor, 'when we were quitesmall and used to run about and play it was in the very same yardwhere we now are we used to put little branches into the ground andmake a garden.'"'Yes,' said the old woman, 'I remember it very well. we used towater the branches, and one of them, an elder tree branch, tookroot, and grew and became the large tree under which we are nowsitting as old people.'"'Certainly, you are right,' he said. 'and in yonder cornerstood a large water tub. there I used to sail my boat, which I had cutout myself it sailed so well. but soon I had to sail somewhere else.'"'But first we went to school to learn something,' she said,'and then we were confirmed. we both wept on that day, but in theafternoon we went out hand in hand, and ascended the high roundtower and looked out into the wide world right over Copenhagen and thesea. then we walked to Fredericksburg, where the king and the queenwere sailing about in their magnificent boat on the canals.'"'But soon I had to sail about somewhere else, and for manyyears I was travelling about far away from home.'"'And I often cried about you, for I was afraid lest you weredrowned and lying at the bottom of the sea. Many a time I got up inthe night and looked if the weathercock had turned. it turned often,but you did not return. I remember one day distinctly: the rain waspouring down in torrents. the dust man had come to the house where Iwas in service. I went down with the dust bin and stood for a momentin the doorway, and looked at the dreadful weather. Then the postmangave me a letter. it was from you. Heavens! how that letter hadtravelled about. I tore it open and read it. I cried and laughed atthe same time, and was so happy! Therein was written that you werestaying in the hot countries, where the coffee grows. These must bemarvellous countries. You said a great deal about them, and I read allwhile the rain was pouring down and I was standing there with thedust bin. Then suddenly some one put his arm round my waist '"'Yes, and you gave him a hearty smack on the cheek,' said the oldman."'I did not know that it was you you had come as quickly asyour letter. and you looked so handsome, and so you do still. Youhad a large yellow silk handkerchief in your pocket and a shininghat on. You looked so well, and the weather in the street washorrible!'"'Then we married,' he said. 'Do you remember how we got our firstboy, and then Mary, Niels, Peter, John, and Christian?'"'Oh yes. and now they have all grown up, and have become usefulmembers of society, whom everybody cares for.'"'And their children have had children again,' said the oldsailor. 'Yes, these are children's children, and they are strong andhealthy. If I am not mistaken, our wedding took place at this seasonof the year.'"'Yes, to day is your golden wedding day,' said the littleelder tree mother, stretching her head down between the two oldpeople, who thought that she was their neighbour who was nodding tothem. they looked at each other and clasped hands. Soon afterwards thechildren and grandchildren came, for they knew very well that it wasthe golden wedding day. they had already wished them joy and happinessin the morning, but the old people had forgotten it, although theyremembered things so well that had passed many, many years ago. Theelder tree smelt strongly, and the setting sun illuminated the facesof the two old people, so that they looked quite rosy. the youngest ofthe grandchildren danced round them, and cried merrily that therewould be a feast in the evening, for they were to have hot potatoes.and the elder mother nodded in the tree and cried 'Hooray' with theothers.""But that was no fairy tale," said the little boy who had listenedto it."You will presently understand it," said the old man who toldthe story. "Let us ask little elder tree mother about it.""That was no fairy tale," said the little elder tree mother."but now it comes! Real life furnishes us with subjects for the mostwonderful fairy tales. for otherwise my beautiful elder bush could nothave grown forth out of the teapot."And then she took the little boy out of bed and placed him onher bosom. the elder branches, full of blossoms, closed over them.it was as if they sat in a thick leafy bower which flew with themthrough the air. it was beautiful beyond all description. The littleelder tree mother had suddenly become a charming young girl, but herdress was still of the same green material, covered with whiteblossoms, as the elder tree mother had worn. she had a real elderblossom on her bosom, and a wreath of the same flowers was wound roundher curly golden hair. her eyes were so large and so blue that itwas wonderful to look at them. She and the boy kissed each other,and then they were of the same age and felt the same joys. They walkedhand in hand out of the bower, and now stood at home in a beautifulflower garden. Near the green lawn the father's walking stick was tiedto a post. There was life in this stick for the little ones, for assoon as they seated themselves upon it the polished knob turned into aneighing horse's head, a long black mane was fluttering in the wind,and four strong slender legs grew out. The animal was fiery andspirited. they galloped round the lawn. "Hooray! now we shall ride faraway, many miles!" said the boy. "we shall ride to the nobleman'sestate where we were last year." And they rode round the lawn again,and the little girl, who, as we know, was no other than the littleelder tree mother, continually cried, "Now we are in the country! Doyou see the farmhouse there, with the large baking stove, whichprojects like a gigantic egg out of the wall into the road? Theelder tree spreads its branches over it, and the cock struts about andscratches for the hens. Look how proud he is! Now we are near thechurch. it stands on a high hill, under the spreading oak trees. oneof them is half dead! Now we are at the smithy, where the fire roarsand the half naked men beat with their hammers so that the sparksfly far and wide. Let's be off to the beautiful farm!" And they passedby everything the little girl, who was sitting behind on the stick,described, and the boy saw it, and yet they only went round thelawn. Then they played in a side walk, and marked out a littlegarden on the ground. she took elder blossoms out of her hair andplanted them, and they grew exactly like those the old peopleplanted when they were children, as we have heard before. Theywalked about hand in hand, just as the old couple had done when theywere little, but they did not go to the round tower nor to theFredericksburg garden. No. the little girl seized the boy round thewaist, and then they flew far into the country. It was spring and itbecame summer, it was autumn and it became winter, and thousands ofpictures reflected themselves in the boy's eyes and heart, and thelittle girl always sang again, "You will never forget that!" Andduring their whole flight the elder tree smelt so sweetly. henoticed the roses and the fresh beeches, but the elder tree smelt muchstronger, for the flowers were fixed on the little girl's bosom,against which the boy often rested his head during the flight."It is beautiful here in spring," said the little girl, and theywere again in the green beechwood, where the thyme breathed forthsweet fragrance at their feet, and the pink anemones looked lovelyin the green moss. "Oh! that it were always spring in the fragrantbeechwood!""Here it is splendid in summer!" she said, and they passed byold castles of the age of chivalry. The high walls and indentedbattlements were reflected in the water of the ditches, on which swanswere swimming and peering into the old shady avenues. The corn wavedin the field like a yellow sea. Red and yellow flowers grew in theditches, wild hops and convolvuli in full bloom in the hedges. Inthe evening the moon rose, large and round, and the hayricks in themeadows smelt sweetly. "One can never forget it!""Here it is beautiful in autumn!" said the little girl, and theatmosphere seemed twice as high and blue, while the wood shone withcrimson, green, and gold. The hounds were running off, flocks ofwild fowl flew screaming over the barrows, while the bramble bushestwined round the old stones. The dark blue sea was covered withwhite sailed ships, and in the barns sat old women, girls, andchildren picking hops into a large tub. the young ones sang songs, andthe old people told fairy tales about goblins and sorcerers. Itcould not be more pleasant anywhere."Here it's agreeable in winter!" said the little girl, and all thetrees were covered with hoar frost, so that they looked like whitecoral. The snow creaked under one's feet, as if one had new bootson. One shooting star after another traversed the sky. In the room theChristmas tree was lit, and there were song and merriment. In thepeasant's cottage the violin sounded, and games were played forapple quarters. even the poorest child said, "It is beautiful inwinter!"And indeed it was beautiful! And the little girl showed everythingto the boy, and the elder tree continued to breathe forth sweetperfume, while the red flag with the white cross was streaming inthe wind. it was the flag under which the old sailor had served. Theboy became a youth. he was to go out into the wide world, far awayto the countries where the coffee grows. But at parting the littlegirl took an elder blossom from her breast and gave it to him as akeepsake. He placed it in his prayer book, and when he opened it indistant lands it was always at the place where the flower ofremembrance was lying. and the more he looked at it the fresher itbecame, so that he could almost smell the fragrance of the woods athome. He distinctly saw the little girl, with her bright blue eyes,peeping out from behind the petals, and heard her whispering, "Here itis beautiful in spring, in summer, in autumn, and in winter," andhundreds of pictures passed through his mind.Thus many years rolled by. He had now become an old man, and wassitting, with his old wife, under an elder tree in full bloom. Theyheld each other by the hand exactly as the great grandfather and thegreat grandmother had done outside, and, like them, they talkedabout bygone days and of their golden wedding. The little girl withthe blue eyes and elder blossoms in her hair was sitting high up inthe tree, and nodded to them, saying, "To day is the goldenwedding!" And then she took two flowers out of her wreath and kissedthem. They glittered at first like silver, then like gold, and whenshe placed them on the heads of the old people each flower became agolden crown. There they both sat like a king and queen under thesweet smelling tree, which looked exactly like an elder tree, and hetold his wife the story of the elder tree mother as it had been toldhim when he was a little boy. They were both of opinion that the storycontained many points like their own, and these similarities theyliked best."Yes, so it is," said the little girl in the tree. "Some call meLittle Elder tree Mother. others a Dryad. but my real name is'Remembrance.' It is I who sit in the tree which grows and grows. Ican remember things and tell stories! But let's see if you havestill got your flower."And the old man opened his prayer book. the elder blossom wasstill in it, and as fresh as if it had only just been put in.Remembrance nodded, and the two old people, with the golden crownson their heads, sat in the glowing evening sun. They closed their eyesand and Well, now the story is ended! The little boy in bed did not knowwhether he had dreamt it or heard it told. the teapot stood on thetable, but no elder tree was growing out of it, and the old man whohad told the story was on the point of leaving the room, and he did goout."How beautiful it was!" said the little boy. "Mother, I havebeen to warm countries!""I believe you," said the mother. "if one takes two cups of hotelder tea it is quite natural that one gets into warm countries!"And she covered him up well, so that he might not take cold. "You haveslept soundly while I was arguing with the old man whether it was astory or a fairy tale!""And what has become of the little elder tree mother?" asked theboy."She is in the teapot," said the mother. "and there she mayremain."