(23) From the Bukowinaer. Von Wliolocki.A young Prince was riding one day through a meadow that stretched formiles in front of him, when he came to a deep open ditch. He was turningaside to avoid it, when he heard the sound of someone crying in theditch. He dismounted from his horse, and stepped along in the directionthe sound came from. To his astonishment he found an old woman, whobegged him to help her out of the ditch. The Prince bent down and liftedher out of her living grave, asking her at the same time how she hadmanaged to get there.'My son,' answered the old woman, 'I am a very poor woman, and soonafter midnight I set out for the neighbouring town in order to sell myeggs in the market on the following morning. but I lost my way in thedark, and fell into this deep ditch, where I might have remained forever but for your kindness.'Then the Prince said to her, 'You can hardly walk. I will put you on myhorse and lead you home. Where do you live?''Over there, at the edge of the forest in the little hut you see in thedistance,' replied the old woman.The Prince lifted her on to his horse, and soon they reached the hut,where the old woman got down, and turning to the Prince said, 'Just waita moment, and I will give you something.' And she disappeared into herhut, but returned very soon and said, 'You are a mighty Prince, butat the same time you have a kind heart, which deserves to be rewarded.Would you like to have the most beautiful woman in the world for yourwife?''Most certainly I would,' replied the Prince.So the old woman continued, 'The most beautiful woman in the whole worldis the daughter of the Queen of the Flowers, who has been captured by adragon. If you wish to marry her, you must first set her free, and thisI will help you to do. I will give you this little bell: if you ring itonce, the King of the Eagles will appear. if you ring it twice, the Kingof the Foxes will come to you. and if you ring it three times, you willsee the King of the Fishes by your side. These will help you if you arein any difficulty. Now farewell, and heaven prosper your undertaking.'She handed him the little bell, and there disappeared hut and all, asthough the earth had swallowed her up.Then it dawned on the Prince that he had been speaking to a good fairy,and putting the little bell carefully in his pocket, he rode home andtold his father that he meant to set the daughter of the Flower Queenfree, and intended setting out on the following day into the wide worldin search of the maid.So the next morning the Prince mounted his fine horse and left his home.He had roamed round the world for a whole year, and his horse had diedof exhaustion, while he himself had suffered much from want and misery,but still he had come on no trace of her he was in search of. At lastone day he came to a hut, in front of which sat a very old man. ThePrince asked him, 'Do you not know where the Dragon lives who keeps thedaughter of the Flower Queen prisoner?''No, I do not,' answered the old man. 'But if you go straight alongthis road for a year, you will reach a hut where my father lives, andpossibly he may be able to tell you.'The Prince thanked him for his information, and continued his journeyfor a whole year along the same road, and at the end of it came tothe little hut, where he found a very old man. He asked him the samequestion, and the old man answered, 'No, I do not know where the Dragonlives. But go straight along this road for another year, and you willcome to a hut in which my father lives. I know he can tell you.'And so the Prince wandered on for another year, always on the same road,and at last reached the hut where he found the third old man. He putthe same question to him as he had put to his son and grandson. but thistime the old man answered, 'The Dragon lives up there on the mountain,and he has just begun his year of sleep. For one whole year he is alwaysawake, and the next he sleeps. But if you wish to see the Flower Queen'sdaughter go up the second mountain: the Dragon's old mother lives there,and she has a ball every night, to which the Flower Queen's daughtergoes regularly.'So the Prince went up the second mountain, where he found a castle allmade of gold with diamond windows. He opened the big gate leading intothe courtyard, and was just going to walk in, when seven dragons rushedon him and asked him what he wanted?The Prince replied, 'I have heard so much of the beauty and kindness ofthe Dragon's Mother, and would like to enter her service.'This flattering speech pleased the dragons, and the eldest of them said,'Well, you may come with me, and I will take you to the Mother Dragon.'They entered the castle and walked through twelve splendid halls, allmade of gold and diamonds. In the twelfth room they found the MotherDragon seated on a diamond throne. She was the ugliest woman under thesun, and, added to it all, she had three heads. Her appearance was agreat shock to the Prince, and so was her voice, which was like thecroaking of many ravens. She asked him, 'Why have you come here?'The Prince answered at once, 'I have heard so much of your beauty andkindness, that I would very much like to enter your service.''Very well,' said the Mother Dragon. 'but if you wish to enter myservice, you must first lead my mare out to the meadow and look afterher for three days. but if you don't bring her home safely everyevening, we will eat you up.'The Prince undertook the task and led the mare out to the meadow.But no sooner had they reached the grass than she vanished. The Princesought for her in vain, and at last in despair sat down on a big stoneand contemplated his sad fate. As he sat thus lost in thought, henoticed an eagle flying over his head. Then he suddenly bethought him ofhis little bell, and taking it out of his pocket he rang it once. In amoment he heard a rustling sound in the air beside him, and the King ofthe Eagles sank at his feet.'I know what you want of me,' the bird said. 'You are looking for theMother Dragon's mare who is galloping about among the clouds. I willsummon all the eagles of the air together, and order them to catch themare and bring her to you.' And with these words the King of the Eaglesflew away. Towards evening the Prince heard a mighty rushing sound inthe air, and when he looked up he saw thousands of eagles driving themare before them. They sank at his feet on to the ground and gave themare over to him. Then the Prince rode home to the old Mother Dragon,who was full of wonder when she saw him, and said, 'You have succeededto day in looking after my mare, and as a reward you shall come to myball to night.' She gave him at the same time a cloak made of copper,and led him to a big room where several young he dragons and she dragonswere dancing together. Here, too, was the Flower Queen's beautifuldaughter. Her dress was woven out of the most lovely flowers in theworld, and her complexion was like lilies and roses. As the Prince wasdancing with her he managed to whisper in her ear, 'I have come to setyou free!'Then the beautiful girl said to him, 'If you succeed in bringing themare back safely the third day, ask the Mother Dragon to give you a foalof the mare as a reward.'The ball came to an end at midnight, and early next morning the Princeagain led the Mother Dragon's mare out into the meadow. But again shevanished before his eyes. Then he took out his little bell and rang ittwice.In a moment the King of the Foxes stood before him and said: 'I knowalready what you want, and will summon all the foxes of the worldtogether to find the mare who has hidden herself in a hill.'With these words the King of the Foxes disappeared, and in the eveningmany thousand foxes brought the mare to the Prince.Then he rode home to the Mother Dragon, from whom he received this timea cloak made of silver, and again she led him to the ball room.The Flower Queen's daughter was delighted to see him safe and sound,and when they were dancing together she whispered in his ear: 'If yousucceed again to morrow, wait for me with the foal in the meadow. Afterthe ball we will fly away together.'On the third day the Prince led the mare to the meadow again. but oncemore she vanished before his eyes. Then the Prince took out his littlebell and rang it three times.In a moment the King of the Fishes appeared, and said to him: 'I knowquite well what you want me to do, and I will summon all the fishesof the sea together, and tell them to bring you back the mare, who ishiding herself in a river.'Towards evening the mare was returned to him, and when he led her hometo the Mother Dragon she said to him:'You are a brave youth, and I will make you my body servant. But whatshall I give you as a reward to begin with?'The Prince begged for a foal of the mare, which the Mother Dragon atonce gave him, and over and above, a cloak made of gold, for she hadfallen in love with him because he had praised her beauty.So in the evening he appeared at the ball in his golden cloak. butbefore the entertainment was over he slipped away, and went straight tothe stables, where he mounted his foal and rode out into the meadow towait for the Flower Queen's daughter. Towards midnight the beautifulgirl appeared, and placing her in front of him on his horse, thePrince and she flew like the wind till they reached the Flower Queen'sdwelling. But the dragons had noticed their flight, and woke theirbrother out of his year's sleep. He flew into a terrible rage whenhe heard what had happened, and determined to lay siege to the FlowerQueen's palace. but the Queen caused a forest of flowers as high as thesky to grow up round her dwelling, through which no one could force away.When the Flower Queen heard that her daughter wanted to marry thePrince, she said to him: 'I will give my consent to your marriagegladly, but my daughter can only stay with you in summer. In winter,when everything is dead and the ground covered with snow, she must comeand live with me in my palace underground.' The Prince consented tothis, and led his beautiful bride home, where the wedding was held withgreat pomp and magnificence. The young couple lived happily togethertill winter came, when the Flower Queen's daughter departed and wenthome to her mother. In summer she returned to her husband, and theirlife of joy and happiness began again, and lasted till the approach ofwinter, when the Flower Queen's daughter went back again to her mother.This coming and going continued all her life long, and in spite of itthey always lived happily together.