Once upon a time there was a sexton who went from house to house in the village for his noon time meals. He like nothing better than to stop at the smith's house, for the smith's wife always had a well filled frying pan and a good drink in the pitcher. Now the sexton showed up at the smith's house more often than he should have for his meals, for he always got a tasty bit from the smith's wife, and something better as well.The smith was normally a kind hearted man, but did not like how the sexton was behaving, so one day he made it clear to him that he was not to come to eat at the smith's house any more often than he did so at the other villagers, warning him that if he showed up out of turn the smith would throw him out the door."Is that how you are going to treat me?" said the sexton to himself. "I'll show you!"He then went straight to the manor house and told the nobleman why the latter should be getting more out of his people. For example, he said that there was a smith in the village who could do more than just eat bread. It would be easy for him in one night to thresh and clean all the grain in the nobleman's barn.The nobleman held the sexton to be an intelligent and experienced man, so he believed his malicious claim. He immediately sent for the smith, who had no choice but to appear before him."My dear craftsman," said the lord, "I have learned that you are more skillful than others. Here is a threshing flail. If you haven't threshed and cleaned all the grain in my barn before sunrise tomorrow, I'll have you driven out of the village with shame and curses. Then just try to find another position somewhere else.The smith swore by heaven and earth that the nobleman had been wrongly informed, but nothing he could say was of any help. He was led into the barn, the threshing flail was handed to him, and the barn door was locked behind him.He stood there cursing his fate while the sexton was at the smith's house feasting on roasted chicken and drinking strong beer with the smith's young wife, laughing about his cunning until he almost burst.At nightfall a small gray man suddenly approached the smith and said, "Why are you just standing here and not beginning your work? Climb up into the loft and throw the sheaves down to me. I'll help you."The smith did what he was asked to. The little gray man struck each sheaf once with the flail, and the grain and the chaff flew into separate piles on the threshing floor. It all went so fast that the smith could not throw down the sheaves quickly enough. Then the little man helped to throw down the sheaves, and all so terribly fast that long before sunrise all the grain had been threshed and cleaned, just as the nobleman had ordered. Finally the little man produced a huge sack, filled it with the grain, then stood it in front of the manor house so that the lord would see it in the morning as soon as he got out of bed.At sunrise the sexton himself came to the manor house to be present when the smith was driven from the village. When he saw the huge sack filled with threshed grain he at first did not believe his eyes. but then he turned green and yellow with anger, got ahold of himself, wished the smith a good morning, and rushed to the nobleman's room."Now, honorable sir, you can see for yourself," said the malicious man, "if the peasants in the village are doing enough for you. The smith did what you commanded him to do. Not a single kernel from the threshed grain is missing in the sack. How would it be if you were to give him an even more difficult task for the coming night? Have him carry away the large pile of stones that is in front of the manor house and replace it with a pond filled with the most beautiful goldfish."This made the nobleman's mouth water, because the pile of stones had annoyed him for a long time, and he would love to have a goldfish pond in front of his house. Therefore he went out and praised the smith for having fulfilled the first task, but then ordered him during the following night to replace the pile of stones with a goldfish pond. If he did not do so he would be driven away with shame and curses.The sexton laughed quietly, because the smith would never be able to fulfill this task. Happily he went to the smith's house and let the young wife serve him a delicious meal.At the same time the smith himself was sadly hammering away at the stones with a sledgehammer, but however hard he tried he could not break off even a single chip.As it grew dark the little gray man appeared again and said, "Smith, you are not getting anywhere! Stand aside, or a flying stone might hit you in the head!"The smith had scarcely stepped back when the little man struck in the middle of the stones with the hammer, and they flew apart like the wind blows through a pile of chaff, and the smith was happy that he escaped injury. The gray man's blows also dug out a deep hole in the earth. Before long clouds descended over the hole. Alder and birch trees sprouted forth on the banks, as did all kinds of beautiful flowers. Before the smith knew what was happening the pond was finished, and the greatest miracle of all was that it was teeming with the most beautiful shimmering, glistening goldfish."Show that to his honorable lordship tomorrow morning," said the gray man, "and ask him if he is satisfied." With that he disappeared.The lord of the manor was indeed satisfied, and he openly praised the smith. The sexton looked on grimly, for his wicked proposals had come to nothing. But he put on a happy face, and with the most honest appearance in the world said to the nobleman, "Yes, indeed, the smith did was he was supposed to do. But your lordship should require one more task from him. Have this skillful man forge a himphamp, without iron and steel, without fire and anvil, and   of course   in one night. That is the greatest masterpiece that the smith knows how to create. If he refuses to forge a himphamp, it is only because of his wickedness   willfully denying your lordship the right to see such a masterpiece."The sexton's speech made the nobleman curious, and he said to the smith, "Your skill has brought me great pleasure. Now I want to know how you forge a himphamp without steel and iron and without fire and anvil.""Oh, your honor," cried the smith, "I will do anything for you, but as long as I live I cannot possible forge a himphamp without steel and iron and without fire and anvil.""Silence!" said the lord. "If you can thresh all of my grain in one night and create a magnificent goldfish pond in place of a pile of stones, then you can also forge a himphamp for me without steel and iron, without fire and anvil. Get busy now. Tomorrow morning I want to see your work."The poor man stood there not knowing what to do. At midnight the little gray man came to him and said, "Idiot, a himphamp is the easiest thing to make. Go home and get your large bullwhip, then hide under your bed without letting your wife know that you are there. Keep your eyes and ears open. As soon as you see something that you don't like just call out 'Himp, hamp, stick together!' and you will soon have a himphamp without steel and iron, without fire and anvil. But don't forget to use your whip."The smith promised the little gray man faithfully to follow his instructions. On tiptoes he sneaked into his house, took the large bullwhip down from its nail, then crept under the bed. Scarcely a quarter of an hour had passed when his wife set the table, loading it with a fine pork roast, white bread, and good strong beer. A little later the sexton came in, sat down next to the smith's wife, and began to feast. Then he put his arm around the young woman, drank to her health, and described with laughter the task that he tricked the nobleman into giving her husband. Finishing his story, he gave her a kiss. This was too much for the smith hiding under the bed, and he called out "Himp, hamp, stick together!"And behold, although the two of them, upon hearing the smith's voice, wanted more than anything else to jump out the window, they had to stay where they were. It was as though they had grown together. Then the smith stepped forth from his hiding place   you saw that coming, didn't you   and went after the godless couple with his bullwhip. They howled and cried and begged for forgiveness, but to no avail.The next morning, just at sunrise, he drove them out of the house toward the manor house. Underway they came to some oxen from the estate. these turned wild and wanted to gore them."Himp, hamp, stick together!" cried the smith angrily, and the oxen stuck to the sexton and the woman, and they had to go along too.Finally, they came to two servants who were blocking their way with a load of hay. "Himp, hamp, stick together!" was again the cry, and they too had to go along toward the manor house.When they appeared before the nobleman the smith said, "Look here, my lord, I have forged a himphamp for you, without steel and iron, without fire and anvil." And with that he beat at the godless couple so fiercely that they both fell down dead.Now the nobleman know for sure why the sexton had praised the smith's abilities so highly.