The Flea, the Grasshopper, and the Skipjack once wanted to seewhich of them could jump highest. and they invited the whole world,and whoever else would come, to see the grand sight. And there thethree famous jumpers were met together in the room."Yes, I'll give my daughter to him who jumps highest," said theKing, "for it would be mean to let these people jump for nothing."The Flea stepped out first. He had very pretty manners, andbowed in all directions, for he had young ladies' blood in hisveins, and was accustomed to consort only with human beings. andthat was of great consequence.Then came the Grasshopper: he was certainly much heavier, but hehad a good figure, and wore the green uniform that was born withhim. This person, moreover, maintained that he belonged to a veryold family in the land of Egypt, and that he was highly esteemedthere. He had just come from the field, he said, and had been put intoa card house three stories high, and all made of picture cards withthe figures turned inwards. There were doors and windows in the house,cut in the body of the Queen of Hearts."I sing so," he said, "that sixteen native crickets who havechirped from their youth up, and have never yet had a card house oftheir own, would become thinner than they are with envy if they wereto hear me."Both of them, the Flea and the Grasshopper, took care toannounce who they were, and that they considered themselves entitledto marry a Princess.The Skipjack said nothing, but it was said of him that hethought all the more. and directly the Yard Dog had smelt at him hewas ready to assert that the Skipjack was of good family, and formedfrom the breastbone of an undoubted goose. The old councillor, who hadreceived three medals for holding his tongue, declared that theSkipjack possessed the gift of prophecy. one could tell by his boneswhether there would be a severe winter or a mild one. and that'smore than one can always tell from the breastbone of the man whowrites the almanac."I shall not say anything more," said the old King. "I only goon quietly, and always think the best."Now they were to take their jump. The Flea sprang so high thatno one could see him. and then they asserted that he had not jumped atall. That was very mean. The Grasshopper only sprang half as high, buthe sprang straight into the King's face, and the King declared thatwas horribly rude. The Skipjack stood a long time considering. at lastpeople thought that he could not jump at all."I only hope he's not become unwell," said the Yard Dog, andthen he smelt at him again."Tap!" he sprang with a little crooked jump just into the lap ofthe Princess, who sat on a low golden stool.Then the King said, "The highest leap was taken by him whojumped up to my daughter. for therein lies the point. but itrequires head to achieve that, and the Skipjack has shown that hehas a head."And so he had the Princess."I jumped highest, after all," said the Flea. "But it's all thesame. Let her have the goose bone with its lump of wax and bit ofstick. I jumped to the highest. but in this world a body is requiredif one wishes to be seen."And the Flea went into foreign military service, where it issaid he was killed.The Grasshopper seated himself out in the ditch, and thought andconsidered how things happened in the world. And he too said, "Body isrequired! body is required!" And then he sang his own melancholy song,and from that we have gathered this story, which they say is not true,though it's in print.