Once upon a time there was a good housewife, who had seven hungrychildren. One day she was busy frying pancakes for them, and this time shehad used new milk in the making of them. One was lying in the pan,frizzling away   ah! so beautiful and thick   it was a pleasure to lookat it. The children were standing round the fire, and the husband sat inthe corner and looked on."Oh, give me a bit of pancake, mother, I am so hungry!" said onechild."Ah, do! dear mother," said the second."Ah, do! dear, good mother," said the third."Ah, do! dear, good, kind mother," said the fourth."Ah, do! dear, good, kind, nice mother," said the fifth."Ah, do! dear, good, kind, nice, sweet mother," said the sixth."Ah, do! dear, good, kind, nice, sweet, darling mother," said theseventh. And thus they were all begging for pancakes, the one moreprettily than the other, because they were so hungry, and such good littlechildren."Yes, children dear, wait a bit until it turns itself," she answered  she ought to have said "until I turn it"   "and then you shall all havepancakes, beautiful pancakes, made of new milk   only look how thick andhappy it lies there."When the pancake heard this, it got frightened, and all of a sudden, itturned itself and wanted to get out of the pan, but it fell down in itagain on the other side, and when it had been fried a little on that sidetoo, it felt a little stronger in the back, jumped out on the floor, androlled away, like a wheel, right through the door and down the road."Halloo!" cried the good wife, and away she ran after it, with thefrying pan in one hand and the ladle in the other, as fast as she could,and the children behind her, while the husband came limping after, last ofall."Halloo, won't you stop? Catch it, stop it. Halloo there!" they allscreamed, the one louder than the other, trying to catch it on the run,but the pancake rolled and rolled, and before long, it was so far ahead,that they could not see it, for the pancake was much smarter on its legsthan any of them.When it had rolled a time, it met a man."Good day, pancake!" said the man."Well met, Manny Panny," said the pancake."Dear pancake," said the man, "don't roll so fast, but wait a bit andlet me eat you.""When I have run away from Goody Poody and the husband and sevensqualling children, I must run away from you too, Manny Panny," said thepancake, and rolled on and on, until it met a hen."Good day, pancake," said the hen."Good day, Henny Penny," said the pancake."My dear pancake, don't roll so fast, but wait a bit and let me eatyou," said the hen."When I have run away from Goody Poody and the husband and sevensqualling children, and from Manny Panny, I must run away from you too,Henny Penny," said the pancake, and rolled on like a wheel down the road.Then it met a cock."Good day, pancake," said the cock."Good day, Cocky Locky," said the pancake."My dear pancake, don't roll so fast, but wait a bit and let me eatyou," said the cock."When I have run away from Goody Poody and the husband and sevensqualling children, from Manny Panny, and Henny Penny, I must run awayfrom you too, Cocky Locky," said the pancake, and rolled and rolled on asfast as it could. When it had rolled a long time, it met a duck."Good day, pancake," said the duck."Good day, Ducky Lucky," said the pancake."My dear pancake, don't roll so fast, but wait a bit and let me eatyou," said the duck."When I have run away from Goody Poody and the husband and sevensqualling children, from Manny Panny, and Henny Penny, and Cocky Locky, Imust run away from you too, Ducky Lucky," said the pancake, and with thatit fell to rolling and rolling as fast as ever it could. When it hadrolled a long, long time, it met a goose.Good day, pancake," said the goose."Good day, Goosey Poosey," said the pancake."My dear pancake, don't roll so fast, but wait a bit and let me eatyou," said the goose."When I have run away from Goody Poody and the husband and sevensqualling children, from Manny Panny, and Henny Penny, and Cocky Locky,and Ducky Lucky, I must run away from you too, Goosey Poosey," said thepancake, and away it rolled. So when it had rolled a long, very long time,it met a gander.Good day, pancake," said the gander."Good day, Gander Pander," said the pancake."My dear pancake, don't roll so fast, but wait a bit and let me eatyou," said the gander."When I have run away from Goody Poody and the husband and sevensqualling children, from Manny Panny, and Henny Penny, and Cocky Locky,and Ducky Lucky, and Goosey Poosey, I must run away from you too, GanderPander," said the pancake, and rolled and rolled as fast as it could. Whenit had rolled on a long, long time, it met a pig.Good day, pancake," said the pig."Good day, Piggy Wiggy," said the pancake, and began to roll on fasterthan ever.Nay, wait a bit," said the pig, "you needn't be in such a hurry scurry.we two can walk quietly together and keep each other company through thewood, because they say it isn't very safe there."The pancake thought there might be something in that, and so theywalked together through the wood. but when they had gone some distance,they came to a brook.The pig was so fat it wasn't much trouble for him to swim across, butthe pancake couldn't get over."Sit on my snout," said the pig, "and I will ferry you over."The pancake did so."Ouf, ouf," grunted the pig, and swallowed the pancake in one gulp, andas the pancake couldn't get any farther   well, you see we can't go onwith this story any farther, either.