Once upon a time an old woman sat spinning in a room at the top of a hightower. Beneath her chair Chaton, her cat, lay peacefully sleeping. All ofa sudden the spinning wheel jarred and made a loud creaking sound.Startled out of his sleep, Chaton the Cat rushed out of the room andbolted down the stairs as though a thousand demons were at his heels.In the yard he passed the house dog who was sitting in front of hiskennel."Hallo, Chaton!" cried the dog. "Where are you going to in such a hurry?""I am fleeing the country," answered Chaton. "I have just heard thesounding of the last trump! The end of the world is at hand!""If that is so," said the dog, "I would like to run away too. May I comewith you?""Certainly," answered Chaton. "Seat yourself on my beautiful curly tail."So the dog perched himself on the cat s tail, and off they went together.A little farther on they came to the farm gate, and there, perched on thetopmost rail, was the cock."Whither away, Chaton?" asked the cock. "You seem to be in haste.""Yes," said Chaton. "I have heard the last trump, which proves that theworld is coming to an end, and I want to get safely away before thathappens.""Take me with you, Chaton dear," said the cock."By all means," answered the cat. "Jump on to my beautiful curly tailbeside the dog."So the cock perched himself on Chaton's tail, and now there were twopassengers. Away went the cat even faster than before, so as to make upfor lost time, and presently they passed a rabbit who was nibbling thegrass in a field."Chaton, Chaton," cried the rabbit, "why are you running so quickly?""Don't stop me!" answered the cat. "I've heard the last trump! The end ofthe world is coming!""Oh, dear me!" cried the rabbit. "What an unfortunate thing! Don't leaveme here, Chaton, for I am afraid to face the end of the world.""Very well," said Chaton. "Jump on to my beautiful curly tail with the dogand the cock, and I'll take you with me."So the rabbit also perched himself on the cat's tail, and now there werethree of them riding there. Off went the cat again, but not so quicklythis time, because of the weight on his tail, and before very long he cameto a pond by the side of which a goose was standing."Now then, now then, what's the hurry?" asked the goose. "If you run sofast you'll overheat your blood and die of a fever.""It's all very well to scoff," answered the cat, "but you must know thatthe end of the world is coming. I have heard the last trump sound!""My goodness!" said the goose. "This is dreadful! Take me with you,Chaton, and I'll be grateful for ever.""Very well," said the cat. "Jump on to my beautiful curly tail with thedog and the fox and the rabbit."So the goose also perched herself on the cat's tail, so now there werefour passengers, and that made five altogether who were running away toescape the end of the world. All that day the cat kept on running, andtowards dusk they came to a forest."This seems a good place to rest," said Chaton. "Now then, master cock,fly to the top of a tree and see if you can espy a house in which we cantake shelter."The cock flew to the top of a high tree and from there he saw a number oflights twinkling in the distance. The five fugitives thereupon set off inthe direction from which the lights shone, and before long they came to alittle village. All the people of the village had left their houses andwere gathered together in the square, round a man dressed all in red, witha big red feather in his cap, who was addressing them.Chaton and his companions pressed close to the edge of the crowd and werejust in time to hear these words: "Whoever finds the ring," said the manwith the red feather," and places it on the table in my palace tomorrowbefore dawn, shall have the five bags of gold which hang on my saddlebow." Having said this, the man in red mounted his horse and rode away.Chaton went up to a little peasant who was standing in the crowd. "Tellme, gossip," said he, "who is the man with the red feather, and what's allthis about a ring and five bags of gold?""Why," said the peasant, "the man in red is the king of this country. Hehad a valuable ring which was kept in a tiny wooden case on the table byhis bed. This afternoon a magpie flew in through the window, snatched upthe case, and bore it away to its nest in the topmost boughs of the walnuttree on the village green. The king wants his ring back again, and willgive the five bags of gold to anybody who will recover it for him.""I see," said Chaton. "and why don't you climb the walnut tree and get thering?""Because I have too much respect for my neck," answered the peasant, "andso has everybody else here. The boughs at the top of the tree where thenest is are so thin and slender that they would not bear the weight of achild, let alone a grown man. Gold is good, but whole limbs are better,that's what I say!""And I!""And I!" echoed other villagers who had been listening to thisconversation."In my belief you are quite right," said Chaton seriously. "Let the kingrisk his own life if he is so anxious to recover his ring."But afterwards, when he had withdrawn with his companions to the shelter ofthe wood, he sang a different tune. "My friends," said he, "our fortunesare made! As soon as all is quiet I will climb the tree and get the ring.then you shall sit on my tail again and we'll all go off together to theking's palace and get the bags of gold!"He danced for joy, and the dog and the cock and the goose and the rabbitdanced with him. An hour afterwards the cat climbed the tree and came downsafely with the little wooden box. The rabbit gnawed it open with histeeth, and sure enough there was the ring inside it."Now," said Chaton, "we will all go to the king's palace, but I am verytired with running all day. I propose that the dog takes a turn atcarrying us."This was agreed. The other four got on to the dog's back and clung therewhile he ambled off as fast as he could along the road towards the palace.Just before dawn they came to a wide river. Now it was the turn of thegoose to work for the common good. She was quite used to the water, andone by one she took the other animals across on her back. Shortlyafterwards they arrived at the king's palace, and the cock flew up throughthe open window of the king's room with the ring in his beak, and placedit on the table by the bed. Then he awoke the king with a loud crow andclaimed the reward, which was willingly given.In great glee at their good fortune the animals went on their way, eachwith his bag of gold, and every one of them had by this time quiteforgotten his fear about the coming of the end of the world. They went onand on until they came to a place where five ways met.Then Chaton said, "Here we are at the parting of the ways. Let us eachchoose a road, and part good friends."At this moment there came along a pig with a knife and fork stuck in hisback. In his right ear was salt. in his left ear pepper, and mustard wason his tail, so that everybody who was hungry had only to cut themselves aslice of meat and sit down to feast.Our friends gladly availed themselves of this good chance, and I who tellyou this story would willingly have done the same, but as soon as I wentup to the pig, he ran at me with his head down and sent me flying throughthe air, and through the window of my house, where I fell into the chairin which I am now sitting, finishing this story of the wonderfuladventures of Chaton, the dog, the cock, the rabbit, and the goose.