Many years ago there lived a very rich king in a beautiful city near awild forest, the home of many wicked witches.The king had a gallant son named Ucay, who fell in love with abeautiful young witch, the daughter of the most bitter enemy of hisfather.When Ucay became old enough to marry, his father requested him toselect the most beautiful lady in the city for his wife. but the princewould neither select one, nor would he tell his father about his love forthe witch. So the rich king ordered his soldiers to bring to the palaceall the beautiful women that could be found in the kingdom.His order was soon obeyed, but none of the girls suited the prince. Sothe king took the matter of selection into his own hands. and, afterchoosing a very handsome girl, he forced his son to marry her.Out of fear, Ucay consented to do as his father bade him. But thebeautiful young witch to whom he had already pledged his love became angrywith him for his timidity, and so she resolved to change the city into aforest of beautiful trees. Her fickle lover she transformed into a monkey,who should live in the tallest tree, and who should not be able to recoverhis human shape till five centuries had past, when a charming girl wouldlive with him and love him more than anything else. Moreover, she changedthe king's subjects into other animals as she pleased. No sooner had themarriage of the prince been proclaimed, then, than the desire of the witchwas accomplished, to the great surprise of the neighboring cities.Four centuries had already passed. The wonderful disappearance of thecity was already forgotten, and people from other places began to buildhouses in the enchanted city. The monkey prince was always watching for anopportunity to catch a beautiful girl who should break the spell that kepthim in his miserable condition. Soon a church was built near the foot ofthe tree in which he lived. He had already succeeded in capturing twoladies, but they had died of fear. After incalculable suffering andextraordinary patience, the time for his recovery came at last.One Sunday morning before the mass was over, a very beautiful girl, thedaughter of a poor man, came out of the church and sat at the foot of thetree. She had been disappointed in her love with a rich man's son, who hadforsaken her in order to marry the daughter of a rich man. So she wishedto die.When the monkey prince saw her sitting there alone, he noiselessly wentdown, carefully took her by the right hand, and carried her to the top ofthe tree. She would have died of fright, as was the fate of the two formerwomen, had she not seen in the monkey's eyes a noble look that filled herwith wonder and sympathy. As days went by, she lived on delicious fruitswhich were entirely strange to her. and her love for the poor creaturegrew greater and greater, until at last she loved him more than anythingelse.On the evening of the tenth day she was surprised to find herselfbeside a gallant prince in a richly decorated room. At first she thoughtthat she was dreaming. but when the prince woke up, kissed her, and thentold her the history of his life, she knew that it was real.She was so astonished, that she exclaimed, "Ah, me! God is wise!"The next morning she was crowned queen of her husband's happy subjects,whom she had restored from the enchantment of the wicked witch. Everyonein the kingdom loved his new queen as long as he lived.