Long, long ago there lived a man called Sentaro. His surname meant"Millionaire," but although he was not so rich as all that, he wasstill very far removed from being poor. He had inherited a smallfortune from his father and lived on this, spending his timecarelessly, without any serious thoughts of work, till he was aboutthirty two years of age.One day, without any reason whatsoever, the thought of death andsickness came to him. The idea of falling ill or dying made him verywretched."I should like to live," he said to himself, "till I am five or sixhundred years old at least, free from all sickness. The ordinary spanof a man's life is very short."He wondered whether it were possible, by living simply and frugallyhenceforth, to prolong his life as long as he wished.He knew there were many stories in ancient history of emperors who hadlived a thousand years, and there was a Princess of Yamato, who, it wassaid, lived to the age of five hundred. This was the latest story of avery long life record.Sentaro had often heard the tale of the Chinese King namedShin no Shiko. He was one of the most able and powerful rulers inChinese history. He built all the large palaces, and also the famousgreat wall of China. He had everything in the world he could wish for,but in spite of all his happiness and the luxury and the splendor ofhis Court, the wisdom of his councilors and the glory of his reign, hewas miserable because he knew that one day he must die and leave it all.When Shin no Shiko went to bed at night, when he rose in the morning,as he went through his day, the thought of death was always with him.He could not get away from it. Ah if only he could find the "Elixir ofLife," he would be happy.The Emperor at last called a meeting of his courtiers and asked themall if they could not find for him the "Elixir of Life" of which he hadso often read and heard.One old courtier, Jofuku by name, said that far away across the seasthere was a country called Horaizan, and that certain hermits livedthere who possessed the secret of the "Elixir of Life." Whoever drankof this wonderful draught lived forever.The Emperor ordered Jofuku to set out for the land of Horaizan, to findthe hermits, and to bring him back a phial of the magic elixir. He gaveJofuku one of his best junks, fitted it out for him, and loaded it withgreat quantities of treasures and precious stones for Jofuku to take aspresents to the hermits.Jofuku sailed for the land of Horaizan, but he never returned to thewaiting Emperor. but ever since that time Mount Fuji has been said tobe the fabled Horaizan and the home of hermits who had the secret ofthe elixir, and Jofuku has been worshiped as their patron god.Now Sentaro determined to set out to find the hermits, and if he could,to become one, so that he might obtain the water of perpetual life. Heremembered that as a child he had been told that not only did thesehermits live on Mount Fuji, but that they were said to inhabit all thevery high peaks.So he left his old home to the care of his relatives, and started outon his quest. He traveled through all the mountainous regions of theland, climbing to the tops of the highest peaks, but never a hermit didhe find.At last, after wandering in an unknown region for many days, he met ahunter."Can you tell me," asked Sentaro, "where the hermits live who have theElixir of Life?""No." said the hunter. "I can't tell you where such hermits live, butthere is a notorious robber living in these parts. It is said that heis chief of a band of two hundred followers."This odd answer irritated Sentaro very much, and he thought how foolishit was to waste more time in looking for the hermits in this way, so hedecided to go at once to the shrine of Jofuku, who is worshiped as thepatron god of the hermits in the south of Japan.Sentaro reached the shrine and prayed for seven days, entreating Jofukuto show him the way to a hermit who could give him what he wanted somuch to find.At midnight of the seventh day, as Sentaro knelt in the temple, thedoor of the innermost shrine flew open, and Jofuku appeared in aluminous cloud, and calling to Sentaro to come nearer, spoke thus:"Your desire is a very selfish one and cannot be easily granted. Youthink that you would like to become a hermit so as to find the Elixirof Life. Do you know how hard a hermit's life is? A hermit is onlyallowed to eat fruit and berries and the bark of pine trees. a hermitmust cut himself off from the world so that his heart may become aspure as gold and free from every earthly desire. Gradually afterfollowing these strict rules, the hermit ceases to feel hunger or coldor heat, and his body becomes so light that he can ride on a crane or acarp, and can walk on water without getting his feet wet.""You, Sentaro, are fond of good living and of every comfort. You arenot even like an ordinary man, for you are exceptionally idle, and moresensitive to heat and cold than most people. You would never be able togo barefoot or to wear only one thin dress in the winter time! Do youthink that you would ever have the patience or the endurance to live ahermit's life?""In answer to your prayer, however, I will help you in another way. Iwill send you to the country of Perpetual Life, where death nevercomes where the people live forever!"Saying this, Jofuku put into Sentaro's hand a little crane made ofpaper, telling him to sit on its back and it would carry him there.Sentaro obeyed wonderingly. The crane grew large enough for him to rideon it with comfort. It then spread its wings, rose high in the air, andflew away over the mountains right out to sea.Sentaro was at first quite frightened. but by degrees he grewaccustomed to the swift flight through the air. On and on they went forthousands of miles. The bird never stopped for rest or food, but as itwas a paper bird it doubtless did not require any nourishment, andstrange to say, neither did Sentaro.After several days they reached an island. The crane flew some distanceinland and then alighted.As soon as Sentaro got down from the bird's back, the crane folded upof its own accord and flew into his pocket.Now Sentaro began to look about him wonderingly, curious to see whatthe country of Perpetual Life was like. He walked first round about thecountry and then through the town. Everything was, of course, quitestrange, and different from his own land. But both the land and thepeople seemed prosperous, so he decided that it would be good for himto stay there and took up lodgings at one of the hotels.The proprietor was a kind man, and when Sentaro told him that he was astranger and had come to live there, he promised to arrange everythingthat was necessary with the governor of the city concerning Sentaro'ssojourn there. He even found a house for his guest, and in this waySentaro obtained his great wish and became a resident in the country ofPerpetual Life.Within the memory of all the islanders no man had ever died there, andsickness was a thing unknown. Priests had come over from India andChina and told them of a beautiful country called Paradise, wherehappiness and bliss and contentment fill all men's hearts, but itsgates could only be reached by dying. This tradition was handed downfor ages from generation to generation but none knew exactly whatdeath was except that it led to Paradise.Quite unlike Sentaro and other ordinary people, instead of having agreat dread of death, they all, both rich and poor, longed for it assomething good and desirable. They were all tired of their long, longlives, and longed to go to the happy land of contentment calledParadise of which the priests had told them centuries ago.All this Sentaro soon found out by talking to the islanders. He foundhimself, according to his ideas, in the land of Topsyturvydom.Everything was upside down. He had wished to escape from dying. He hadcome to the land of Perpetual Life with great relief and joy, only tofind that the inhabitants themselves, doomed never to die, wouldconsider it bliss to find death.What he had hitherto considered poison these people ate as good food,and all the things to which he had been accustomed as food theyrejected. Whenever any merchants from other countries arrived, the richpeople rushed to them eager to buy poisons. These they swallowedeagerly, hoping for death to come so that they might go to Paradise.But what were deadly poisons in other lands were without effect in thisstrange place, and people who swallowed them with the hope of dying,only found that in a short time they felt better in health instead ofworse.Vainly they tried to imagine what death could be like. The wealthywould have given all their money and all their goods if they could butshorten their lives to two or three hundred years even. Without anychange to live on forever seemed to this people wearisome and sad.In the chemist shops there was a drug which was in constant demand,because after using it for a hundred years, it was supposed to turn thehair slightly gray and to bring about disorders of the stomach.Sentaro was astonished to find that the poisonous globe fish was servedup in restaurants as a delectable dish, and hawkers in the streets wentabout selling sauces made of Spanish flies. He never saw any one illafter eating these horrible things, nor did he ever see any one with asmuch as a cold.Sentaro was delighted. He said to himself that he would never growtired of living, and that he considered it profane to wish for death.He was the only happy man on the island. For his part he wished to livethousands of years and to enjoy life. He set himself up in business,and for the present never even dreamed of going back to his native land.As years went by, however, things did not go as smoothly as at first.He had heavy losses in business, and several times some affairs wentwrong with his neighbors. This caused him great annoyance.Time passed like the flight of an arrow for him, for he was busy frommorning till night. Three hundred years went by in this monotonous way,and then at last he began to grow tired of life in this country, and helonged to see his own land and his old home. However long he livedhere, life would always be the same, so was it not foolish andwearisome to stay on here forever?Sentaro, in his wish to escape from the country of Perpetual Life,recollected Jofuku, who had helped him before when he was wishing toescape from death and he prayed to the saint to bring him back to hisown land again.No sooner did he pray than the paper crane popped out of his pocket.Sentaro was amazed to see that it had remained undamaged after allthese years. Once more the bird grew and grew till it was large enoughfor him to mount it. As he did so, the bird spread its wings and flew,swiftly out across the sea in the direction of Japan.Such was the willfulness of the man's nature that he looked back andregretted all he had left behind. He tried to stop the bird in vain.The crane held on its way for thousands of miles across the ocean.Then a storm came on, and the wonderful paper crane got damp, crumpledup, and fell into the sea. Sentaro fell with it. Very much frightenedat the thought of being drowned, he cried out loudly to Jofuku to savehim. He looked round, but there was no ship in sight. He swallowed aquantity of sea water, which only increased his miserable plight. Whilehe was thus struggling to keep himself afloat, he saw a monstrous sharkswimming towards him. As it came nearer it opened its huge mouth readyto devour him. Sentaro was all but paralyzed with fear now that he felthis end so near, and screamed out as loudly as ever he could to Jofukuto come and rescue him.Lo, and behold, Sentaro was awakened by his own screams, to find thatduring his long prayer he had fallen asleep before the shrine, and thatall his extraordinary and frightful adventures had been only a wilddream. He was in a cold perspiration with fright, and utterlybewildered.Suddenly a bright light came towards him, and in the light stood amessenger. The messenger held a book in his hand, and spoke to Sentaro:"I am sent to you by Jofuku, who in answer to your prayer, haspermitted you in a dream to see the land of Perpetual Life. But yougrew weary of living there, and begged to be allowed to return to yournative land so that you might die. Jofuku, so that he might try you,allowed you to drop into the sea, and then sent a shark to swallow youup. Your desire for death was not real, for even at that moment youcried out loudly and shouted for help.""It is also vain for you to wish to become a hermit, or to find theElixir of Life. These things are not for such as you your life is notaustere enough. It is best for you to go back to your paternal home,and to live a good and industrious life. Never neglect to keep theanniversaries of your ancestors, and make it your duty to provide foryour children's future. Thus will you live to a good old age and behappy, but give up the vain desire to escape death, for no man can dothat, and by this time you have surely found out that even when selfishdesires are granted they do not bring happiness.""In this book I give you there are many precepts good for you toknow if you study them, you will be guided in the way I have pointedout to you."The angel disappeared as soon as he had finished speaking, and Sentarotook the lesson to heart. With the book in his hand he returned to hisold home, and giving up all his old vain wishes, tried to live a goodand useful life and to observe the lessons taught him in the book, andhe and his house prospered henceforth.