There was once a man that worked in the fields, and had a wife, and ason,and a daughter. One day he caught a hare, and took it home to his wife,andasked her to make it ready for his dinner. While it was on the fire thegoodwife tasted and tasted at it, till she had tasted it all away, and shedidnot know what to do for her goodman's dinner.So she called her son Johnny to come in and get his head combed, andwhenshe was combing his head, she killed him and put him into the pot.Well, the goodman came home to his dinner, and his wife set downJohnny,well boiled, in front of him. And when he was eating, he took up a footandsaid, "That's surely my Johnny's foot.""Such nonsense! It's one of the hare's," said the goodwife.Then he took up a hand and said, "That's surely my Johnny's hand.""You're talking foolishness, goodman. It's another of the hare'sfeet.So when the goodman had eaten his dinner, little Katy, Johnny's sister,gather all the bones and buried them beneath a stone just outside thedoor:Where they grew, and they grew,To a milk white doo (dove),That took its wings,And away it flew.And it flew till it came to where two women were washingclothes, andit sat down on a stone and cried:Pew, pew,My minny me slew,My daddy me chew,My sister gathered by banes,And put them between twa milk white stanes.And I grew, and I grew,To a milk white doo,And I took to my wings, and away I flew."Say that over again, my bonny bird, and we'll give you alltheseclothes," said the women.Pew, pew,My minny me slew,My daddy me chew,My sister gathered by banes,And put them between twa milk white stanes.And I grew, and I grew,To a milk white doo,And I took to my wings, and away I flew.And it got the clothes. and then flew till it came to a mancountinga great heap of silver, and it sat down and cried:Pew, pew,My minny me slew,My daddy me chew,My sister gathered by banes,And put them between twa milk white stanes.And I grew, and I grew,To a milk white doo,And I took to my wings, and away I flew.Say that again, my bonny bird, and I'll give you all thissilver,"said the man.Pew, pew,My minny me slew,My daddy me chew,My sister gathered by banes,And put them between twa milk white stanes.And I grew, and I grew,To a milk white doo,And I took to my wings, and away I flew.And it got all the silver, and then it flew till it came to twomillers grinding corn, and it cried:Pew, pew,My minny me slew,My daddy me chew,My sister gathered by banes,And put them between twa milk white stanes.And I grew, and I grew,To a milk white doo,And I took to my wings, and away I flew.Say that again, my bonny bird, and I'll give you this millstone,saidthe miller.Pew, pew,My minny me slew,My daddy me chew,My sister gathered by banes,And put them between twa milk white stanes.And I grew, and I grew,To a milk white doo,And I took to my wings, and away I flew.And it got the millstone. And then it flew till it lit on itsfather's housetop. It threw small stones down the chimney, and Katy cameout tosee what was the matter, and the dove threw all the clothes to her. Thenthefather came out, and the dove threw all the silver to him. And then themothercame out, and the dove threw down the millstone upon her and killedher.And at last it flew away, and the goodman and his daughter afterthat,Lived happy, and died happy,And never drank out of a dry cappy.