Once upon a time there lived a king who was so fond of wine that hecould not go to sleep unless he knew he had a great flaskful tied to hisbed post. All day long he drank till he was too stupid to attend to hisbusiness, and everything in the kingdom went to rack and ruin. But oneday an accident happened to him, and he was struck on the head by afalling bough, so that he fell from his horse and lay dead upon theground.His wife and son mourned his loss bitterly, for, in spite of his faults,he had always been kind to them. So they abandoned the crown and forsooktheir country, not knowing or caring where they went.At length they wandered into a forest, and being very tired, sat downunder a tree to eat some bread that they had brought with them. Whenthey had finished the queen said: 'My son, I am thirsty. fetch me somewater.'The prince got up at once and went to a brook which he heard gurglingnear at hand. He stooped and filled his hat with the water, which hebrought to his mother. then he turned and followed the stream up toits source in a rock, where it bubbled out clear and fresh and cold. Heknelt down to take a draught from the deep pool below the rock, when hesaw the reflection of a sword hanging from the branch of a tree over hishead. The young man drew back with a start. but in a moment he climbedthe tree, cutting the rope which held the sword, and carried the weaponto his mother.The queen was greatly surprised at the sight of anything so splendid insuch a lonely place, and took it in her hands to examine it closely.It was of curious workmanship, wrought with gold, and on its handle waswritten: 'The man who can buckle on this sword will become stronger thanother men.' The queen's heart swelled with joy as she read these words,and she bade her son lose no time in testing their truth. So he fastenedit round his waist, and instantly a glow of strength seemed to runthrough his veins. He took hold of a thick oak tree and rooted it up aseasily as if it had been a weed.This discovery put new life into the queen and her son, and theycontinued their walk through the forest. But night was drawing on, andthe darkness grew so thick that it seemed as if it could be cut with aknife. They did not want to sleep in the wood, for they were afraid ofwolves and other wild beasts, so they groped their way along, hand inhand, till the prince tripped over something which lay across the path.He could not see what it was, but stooped down and tried to lift it.The thing was very heavy, and he thought his back would break under thestrain. At last with a great heave he moved it out of the road, and asit fell he knew it was a huge rock. Behind the rock was a cave which itwas quite clear was the home of some robbers, though not one of the bandwas there.Hastily putting out the fire which burned brightly at the back, andbidding his mother come in and keep very still, the prince began to paceup and down, listening for the return of the robbers. But he was verysleepy, and in spite of all his efforts he felt he could not keep awakemuch longer, when he heard the sound of the robbers returning, shoutingand singing as they marched along. Soon the singing ceased, andstraining his ears he heard them discussing anxiously what had become oftheir cave, and why they could not see the fire as usual. 'This mustbe the place,' said a voice, which the prince took to be that of thecaptain. 'Yes, I feel the ditch before the entrance. Someone forgot topile up the fire before we left and it has burnt itself out! But it isall right. Let every man jump across, and as he does so cry out "Hop! Iam here." I will go last. Now begin.'The man who stood nearest jumped across, but he had no time to give thecall which the captain had ordered, for with one swift, silent strokeof the prince's sword, his head rolled into a corner. Then the young mancried instead, 'Hop! I am here.'The second man, hearing the signal, leapt the ditch in confidence, andwas met by the same fate, and in a few minutes eleven of the robbers laydead, and there remained only the captain.Now the captain had wound round his neck the shawl of his lost wife,and the stroke of the prince's sword fell harmless. Being very cunning,however, he made no resistance, and rolled over as if he were as dead asthe other men. Still, the prince was no fool, and wondered if indeed hewas as dead as he seemed to be. but the captain lay so stiff and stark,that at last he was taken in.The prince next dragged the headless bodies into a chamber in the cave,and locked the door. Then he and his mother ransacked the place for somefood, and when they had eaten it they lay down and slept in peace.With the dawn they were both awake again, and found that, instead ofthe cave which they had come to the night before, they now were in asplendid castle, full of beautiful rooms. The prince went round allthese and carefully locked them up, bidding his mother take care of thekeys while he was hunting.Unfortunately, the queen, like all women, could not bear to think thatthere was anything which she did not know. So the moment that her sonhad turned his back, she opened the doors of all the rooms, and peepedin, till she came to the one where the robbers lay. But if the sightof the blood on the ground turned her faint, the sight of the robbercaptain walking up and down was a greater shock still. She quicklyturned the key in the lock, and ran back to the chamber she had sleptin.Soon after her son came in, bringing with him a large bear, which he hadkilled for supper. As there was enough food to last them for many days,the prince did not hunt the next morning, but, instead, began to explorethe castle. He found that a secret way led from it into the forest. andfollowing the path, he reached another castle larger and more splendidthan the one belonging to the robbers. He knocked at the door withhis fist, and said that he wanted to enter. but the giant, to whom thecastle belonged, only answered: 'I know who you are. I have nothing todo with robbers.''I am no robber,' answered the prince. 'I am the son of a king, and Ihave killed all the band. If you do not open to me at once I will breakin the door, and your head shall go to join the others.'He waited a little, but the door remained shut as tightly as before.Then he just put his shoulder to it, and immediately the wood beganto crack. When the giant found that it was no use keeping it shut, heopened it, saying: 'I see you are a brave youth. Let there be peacebetween us.'And the prince was glad to make peace, for he had caught a glimpse ofthe giant's beautiful daughter, and from that day he often sought thegiant's house.Now the queen led a dull life all alone in the castle, and to amuseherself she paid visits to the robber captain, who flattered her till atlast she agreed to marry him. But as she was much afraid of her son,she told the robber that the next time the prince went to bathe inthe river, he was to steal the sword from its place above the bed,for without it the young man would have no power to punish him for hisboldness.The robber captain thought this good counsel, and the next morning, whenthe young man went to bathe, he unhooked the sword from its nail andbuckled it round his waist. On his return to the castle, the princefound the robber waiting for him on the steps, waving the sword abovehis head, and knowing that some horrible fate was in store, fell on hisknees and begged for mercy. But he might as well have tried to squeezeblood out of a stone. The robber, indeed, granted him his life, buttook out both his eyes, which he thrust into the prince's hand, sayingbrutally:'Here, you had better keep them! You may find them useful!'Weeping, the blind youth felt his way to the giant's house, and told himall the story.The giant was full of pity for the poor young man, but inquiredanxiously what he had done with the eyes. The prince drew them out ofhis pocket, and silently handed them to the giant, who washed them well,and then put them back in the prince's head. For three days he lay inutter darkness. then the light began to come back, till soon he saw aswell as ever.But though he could not rejoice enough over the recovery of his eyes, hebewailed bitterly the loss of his sword, and that it should have fallento the lot of his bitter enemy.'Never mind, my friend,' said the giant, 'I will get it back for you.'And he sent for the monkey who was his head servant.'Tell the fox and the squirrel that they are to go with you, and fetchme back the prince's sword,' ordered he.The three servants set out at once, one seated on the back of theothers, the ape, who disliked walking, being generally on top. Directlythey came to the window of the robber captain's room, the monkey sprangfrom the backs of the fox and the squirrel, and climbed in. The room wasempty, and the sword hanging from a nail. He took it down, and bucklingit round his waist, as he had seen the prince do, swung himself downagain, and mounting on the backs of his two companions, hastened tohis master. The giant bade him give the sword to the prince, who girdedhimself with it, and returned with all speed to the castle.'Come out, you rascal! come out, you villain!' cried he, 'and answerto me for the wrong you have done. I will show you who is the master inthis house!'The noise he made brought the robber into the room. He glanced up towhere the sword usually hung, but it was gone. and instinctively helooked at the prince's hand, where he saw it gleaming brightly. In histurn he fell on his knees to beg for mercy, but it was too late. As hehad done to the prince, so the prince did to him, and, blinded, he wasthrust forth, and fell down a deep hole, where he is to this day. Hismother the prince sent back to her father, and never would see heragain. After this he returned to the giant, and said to him:'My friend, add one more kindness to those you have already heaped onme. Give me your daughter as my wife.'So they were married, and the wedding feast was so splendid that therewas not a kingdom in the world that did not hear of it. And the princenever went back to his father's throne, but lived peacefully with hiswife in the forest, where, if they are not dead, they are living still.