A hare and a fox were traveling together. It was wintertime. Nothing greenwas growing, and neither mice nor lice were creeping afield."This is hungry weather," said the fox to the hare. "My insides are allknotted together.""Yes, indeed," answered the hare. "There are hard times everywhere. Iwould eat my own ears if I could get them into my mouth."Thus they marched hungrily onward together. Then in the distance they sawa peasant girl approaching them. She was carrying a basket, and the foxand the hare sensed a pleasant smell coming from the basket, the smell offresh bread rolls."Do you know what!" said the fox. "Lie down and pretend to be dead. Thegirl will set her basket down and pick you up for your poor pelt, becausehare pelts can be made into gloves. Meanwhile I'll make off with thebasket of rolls, all for our benefit."The hare did what the fox suggested: he fell down and pretended to bedead.The fox hid behind a snowdrift. The girl came and saw the hare with allfour legs stretched out. She set down the basket, and bent over the hare.The fox quickly snatched up the basket and ran off across the field.The hare immediately came to life and hurried after his companion.However, the fox showed no sign of sharing the rolls, but instead made itclear that he intended to eat all of them by himself.This did not please the hare at all.They were approaching a small pond,and the hare said to the fox, "Why don't we catch some fish for our meal?Then we could have fish with white bread, just like grand gentlemen! Justlower your tail into the water, then the fish, who themselves don't havemuch to eat these days, will grab onto it. But you'd better hurry, before thepond freezes over."The fox thought that this was a good plan, so he went to the pond, whichwas just about to freeze over, and hung his tail into the water. In ashort time the fox's tail was frozen tightly in the ice. Then the haretook the basket of rolls and slowly ate them, one after the other, beforethe fox's eyes.Finally he said to the fox, "Just wait until it thaws! Just wait untilspringtime! Just wait until it thaws!"And then he ran away, leaving the fox yelping after him, yelping like anangry dog on a chain.