There was in the palace of the world a grocer, and he had a wife, abeauty of the age, and that woman had a lover.One day this woman's lover said, "If your husband found us out, hewould not leave either of us sound."The woman said, "I am able to manage that I shall make merry with youbefore my husband's eyes."The youth said, "Such a thing cannot be."The woman replied, "In such and such a place there is a large tree.Tomorrow I will go on an outing with my husband to the foot of that tree.Hide yourself in a secret place near that tree, and when I make a sign toyou, come."As her lover left, her husband arrived. The woman said, "Man, I wouldlike to go on an outing with you tomorrow to such and such a tree."The man replied, "So be it."When it was morning the woman and her husband went to that tree. Thewoman said, "They say that he who eats this sweetmeat sees single thingsas though they were double," and she ate some and gave her husband some toeat.Half an hour afterward the woman climbed up the tree and turned andlooked down and began, "May you be struck blind! May God punish you! Man,what are you doing? Is there anyone who has ever done such a thing? Youare making merry with a strange woman under the eyes of your wife. Quick,divorce me!" And she cried out.Her husband said, "What is with you, woman? Have you gone mad? There isno one with me."Said the woman, "Be silent, you unblushing and shameless fellow. Thewoman is with you, and you deny it."Her husband said, "Come down."She replied, "I will not come down so long as that woman is withyou."Her husband began to swear, protesting, and the woman came down andsaid to him, "Where is that harlot? Quick, show her to me, or else!"Again the man swore, and the woman said, "Can it then be the work ofthe sweetmeat?"The man said, "May be."Said the woman, "You too go up and look down on me, and let ussee."Her husband took hold of the tree, and while he was climbing, the womanmade a sign to her lover. The man looked down and saw the woman makingmerry with a youth.This time the man cried out, "Away with you! What is with you, youshameless boy?"The woman said, "You are lying."But the man could not endure it and began to come down, and the youthran off.