A man had undertaken to build the church at Eckwadt by a certain day, but was soon sensible that it was not in his power to fulfil his contract. One night, while wandering about out of humour and pondering as to the course he should pursue, a little hill man accosted him, and offered him his services. The builder at first listened contemptuously to the little man's magniloquent speech, but at length it was settled between them, that the dwarf should erect the church within the given space, and that the builder should by that time ascertain his name. if he failed in so doing, he should, body and soul, belong to the little man.Rejoiced at heart the builder went home. for he thought: "If he himself will not tell me his name, I can, at all events, extract it from his work people."But it fell out quite contrary to his expectations. for the little man used neither workmen nor laborers, but finished everything himself with incredible rapidity. so that the builder clearly saw that all would be complete by the time agreed on.Sadder than the first time, he was again wandering about the fields, when, in passing by a mount, he heard a crying within it, and on listening more attentively, distinguished the following words:Vys! vaer still Baen mint,Maaen kommer Faer ZiMae Christen Bloi te dae.Hush! Be still, my child,Tomorrow comes thy father ZiWith Christian blood for thee.Now was the builder overjoyed, for he well knew to whom the words alluded, and hastened home. It was just the morning of the day on which the church should be ready, and the dwarf was busied on placing the last stone   for he worked only during the night   when the builder called to him from a distance:God Maaen, Zi! God Maaen, Zi!Saetter du nu den sidste Steen i?Good morning, Zi! Good morning, Zi!Are you now placing the last stone?When the goblin heard himself addressed by name he was furious, and hurling away the stone that he was in the act of placing, retired within his cave. The hole which was thus left could never be filled up. In the night everything was cast out. A mason, that once endeavored to build it up, was attacked by a wasting malady. At a later period, a window was placed there, which the goblin suffered to remain.