Once upon a time there lived a young man who vowed that he would nevermarry any girl who had not royal blood in her veins. One day he pluckedup all his courage and went to the palace to ask the emperor for hisdaughter. The emperor was not much pleased at the thought of such amatch for his only child, but being very polite, he only said:'Very well, my son, if you can win the princess you shall have her,and the conditions are these. In eight days you must manage to tame andbring to me three horses that have never felt a master. The first ispure white, the second a foxy red with a black head, the third coalblack with a white head and feet. And besides that, you must also bringas a present to the empress, my wife, as much gold as the three horsescan carry.'The young man listened in dismay to these words, but with an effort hethanked the emperor for his kindness and left the palace, wonderinghow he was to fulfil the task allotted to him. Luckily for him, theemperor's daughter had overheard everything her father had said, andpeeping through a curtain had seen the youth, and thought him handsomerthan anyone she had ever beheld.So returning hastily to her own room, she wrote him a letter which shegave to a trusty servant to deliver, begging her wooer to come to herrooms early the next day, and to undertake nothing without her advice,if he ever wished her to be his wife.That night, when her father was asleep, she crept softly into hischamber and took out an enchanted knife from the chest where he kept histreasures, and hid it carefully in a safe place before she went to bed.The sun had hardly risen the following morning when the princess's nursebrought the young man to her apartments. Neither spoke for some minutes,but stood holding each other's hands for joy, till at last they bothcried out that nothing but death should part them. Then the maiden said:'Take my horse, and ride straight through the wood towards the sunsettill you come to a hill with three peaks. When you get there, turn firstto the right and then to the left, and you will find yourself in a sunmeadow, where many horses are feeding. Out of these you must pick outthe three described to you by my father. If they prove shy, and refuseto let you get near them, draw out your knife, and let the sun shine onit so that the whole meadow is lit up by its rays, and the horses willthen approach you of their own accord, and will let you lead them away.When you have them safely, look about till you see a cypress tree, whoseroots are of brass, whose boughs are of silver, and whose leaves areof gold. Go to it, and cut away the roots with your knife, and you willcome to countless bags of gold. Load the horses with all they can carry,and return to my father, and tell him that you have done your task, andcan claim me for your wife.'The princess had finished all she had to say, and now it depended on theyoung man to do his part. He hid the knife in the folds of his girdle,mounted his horse, and rode off in search of the meadow. This he foundwithout much difficulty, but the horses were all so shy that theygalloped away directly he approached them. Then he drew his knife, andheld it up towards the sun, and directly there shone such a glory thatthe whole meadow was bathed in it. From all sides the horses rushedpressing round, and each one that passed him fell on its knees to do himhonour.But he only chose from them all the three that the emperor haddescribed. These he secured by a silken rope to his own horse, and thenlooked about for the cypress tree. It was standing by itself in onecorner, and in a moment he was beside it, tearing away the earth withhis knife. Deeper and deeper he dug, till far down, below the roots ofbrass, his knife struck upon the buried treasure, which lay heaped upin bags all around. With a great effort he lifted them from their hidingplace, and laid them one by one on his horses' backs, and when theycould carry no more he led them back to the emperor. And when theemperor saw him, he wondered, but never guessed how it was the young manhad been too clever for him, till the betrothal ceremony was over. Thenhe asked his newly made son in law what dowry he would require with hisbride. To which the bridegroom made answer, 'Noble emperor! all I desireis that I may have your daughter for my wife, and enjoy for ever the useof your enchanted knife.'(Volksmarchen der Serben.)