There was a king before now, and he married, and he had but one daughter.When his wife departed, he would marry none but one whom her clothes wouldfit. His daughter one day tried her mother's dress on, and she came andshe let her father see how it fitted her. It was fitting her well. Whenher father saw her he would marry no woman but her.She went crying where her muime was. and her foster mother said to her,"What was the matter with her?"She said, "that her father was insisting that he would marry her."Her muime told her to say to him, "that she would not marry him till heshould get her a gown of the swan's down."He went, and at the end of a day and a year he came, and the gown withhim.She went again to take the counsel of her muime. "Say to him," said hermuime, "that thou wilt not marry him till he gets thee a gown of themoorland canach."She said this to him. He went, and at the end of a day and year hereturned, and a gown of the moorland canach with him."Say now to him," said her muime, "that thou wilt not marry him till hebrings thee a gown of silk that will stand on the ground with gold andsilver."At the end of a day and year he returned with the gown."Say to him now," said her muime, "that thou wilt not marry him till hebrings thee a golden shoe, and a silver shoe."He got her a golden shoe and a silver shoe."Say to him now," said her muime, "that thou wilt not marry him unless hebrings thee a kist that will lock without and within, and for which it isall the same to be on sea or on land."When she got the kist, she folded the best of her mother's clothes, and ofher own clothes in it. Then she went herself into the kist, and she askedher father to put it out on the sea to try how it would swim. Her fatherput it out. when it was put out, it was going, and going, till it went outof sight.It went on shore on the other side. and a herd came where it was,intending to break it, in hopes that there were findings in the chest.When he was going to break it she called out, "Do not so, but say to thyfather to come here, and he will get that which will better him for life."His father came, and he took her with him to his own house. It was with aking that he was herd, and the king's house was near him."If I could get," said she, "leave to go to service to this great houseyonder.""They want none," said the herd, "unless they want one under the hand ofthe cook."The herd went to speak for her, and she went as a servant maid under thehand of the cook.When the rest were going to the sermon. and when they asked her if she wasgoing to it, she said, "that she was not. that she had a little bread tobake, and that she could not go to it."When they went away, she took herself to the herd's house, and she put ona gown of the down of the swan. She went to the sermon, and she satopposite the king's son. The king's son took love for her. She went awhile before the sermon skailed, she reached the herd's house, she changedher clothes, and she was in before them. When the rest came home, it wastalking about the gentlewoman that was at the sermon they were.The next Sunday they said to her, "Was she going to the sermon?" and shesaid, "that she was not, that she had a little bread to bake."When they went away, she reached the herd's house, and she put on a gownof the moorland canach. and she went to the sermon. The king's son wasseated where she was the Sunday before, and she sat opposite to him. Shecame out before them, and she changed, and she was at the house beforethem. and when the rest came home, it was talking about the greatgentlewoman that was at the sermon they were.The third Sunday, they said to her, "Was she going to the sermon?" and shesaid, "that she was not, that she had a little bread to bake."When they went away, she reached the herd's house. She put on the gownthat would stand on the ground with gold and silver, and the golden shoeand the silver shoe, and she went to the sermon. The king's son was seatedwhere she was the Sunday before, and she sat where he was. A watch was seton the doors this Sunday. She arose, she saw a cranny, and she jumped outat the cranny. but they kept hold of one of the shoes.The king's son said, "Whomsoever that shoe would fit, she it was that hewould marry."Many were trying the shoe on, and taking off their toes and heels to tryif it would fit them. but there were none whom the shoe would fit.There was a little bird in the top of a tree, always saying as everyonewas trying on the shoe, " Beeg beeg ha nan doot a heeg ach don tjay veega ha fo laiv a hawchkare. "   Wee wee, it comes not on thee. but onthe wee one under the hand of the cook.When he could get none whom the shoe would fit, the king's son lay down,and his mother went to the kitchen to talk over the matter."Won't you let me see the shoe?" said she. "I will not do it any harm atall events.""Thou! thou ugly dirty thing, that it should fit thee." She went down, andshe told this to her son."Is it not known," said he, "that it won't fit her at all events? Andcan't you give it her to please her?"As soon as the shoe went on the floor, the shoe jumped on her foot."What will you give me," said she, " to let you see the other one?" Shereached the herd's house, and she put on the shoes, and the dress thatwould stand on the floor with gold and silver. When she returned, therewas but to send word for a minister, and she herself and the king's sonmarried.