A soldier had long served his king. He had been valiant and brave andhence had received many wounds. When the war was over he had to go backwhere he came from to see if he could not beg a little bread for himself.Such a cripple could not work, and at that time there were no pensions. Hewent from village to village and from town to town, barely getting by.Once he had to pass through a great forest, for at that time there weremany large forests. He lost his way and had to eat roots and berries untilfinally he came to a charcoal burner who took him in and friendlily gavehim shelter. The soldier liked it there in the solitude, and he and thecharcoal burner became right good friends. He carried wood for thecharcoal burner and helped him with everything he had to do. In thetwilight of evening they both complained about their sorrows and told oneanother about their past.One day the charcoal burner said, "Listen, friend, you are daring andbrave. You can bring good fortune to both of us if you will only follow myadvice. Not far from here there is a deep shaft where enormous treasuresare buried. Are you willing to let me lower you down on a rope? Just bringme a bundle of candles. you can keep everything else that you bring up.You'll see that we shall have enough."The soldier immediately agreed. The following morning the charcoal burnertook a long rope, and they both went to the shaft. One, two, three, thesoldier had the rope around his body, and the charcoal burner lowered himinto the hole. Down at the bottom the soldier undid the rope, struck alight, and found a tunnel, which he followed until he came to an iron doorthat was closed with many bars. He opened it and entered a large hall thatwas entirely illuminated by a silver chandelier. It was as bright as day.In the middle a large iron man was seated on a throne with three chestsstanding nearby. However, they were locked shut. Above the door washanging the bundle of candles.First of all the soldier reached for the candles. the man saw this, butdid not move. Then the soldier went to one of the chests, which earlierhad not been open, and behold, it was filled with shiny silver coins. Hequickly filled his pockets. Then the second chest sprang open, and themost beautiful and largest gold pieces shone forth. He threw the silvercoins back into their chest and filled his pockets with gold. He wasscarcely finished when the third chest opened itself, in which the mostvaluable precious stones and pearls were glistening. He set the gold asideand filled his pockets with pearls and diamonds. The man did not move. Thesoldier left, and the iron man did not move.At the shaft the soldier tied the rope around his body again, then tugged,and he was pulled up. Above he gave the charcoal burner the candles andshowed him his treasures. Both were delighted, and they retired.The next morning the charcoal burner was dead. What was the soldier to do?He took his treasures, including the candles, and with his staff in handwent forth into the wide world. He soon came out of the forest, then madehis way to a large city where for a long time he lived gloriously andhappily, thinking that his riches would have no end. But they did come toan end, and he did not have even enough money to buy oil for his lamp.Then he thought of the candles that he had brought from the shaft. He tookone of them, lit it, and in that instant the iron man stood before him,asking him what he should do.The soldier now knew how things stood, and he told him to bring him a sackfull of gold. In an instant he had the gold, the candle went out, and theman had disappeared. Now he had whatever he needed, and when anything wasgone the iron man had to come and bring something new.From there the soldier traveled to the city where the king lived, whom hehad served. Here he heard that the king's daughter was wonderfullybeautiful, but that no one was allowed to see her. Having nothing betterto do, and already leading an elegant life, the idea came to him that hewanted to see the princess. Therefore one evening at ten o'clock he lithis candle. The iron man entered his door and asked what he wished."Bring the king's daughter from the castle here to me."The mighty servant disappeared, and a short time later was back with theprincess. Now the soldier made the daughter pay for what her father haddone to him. She had to wait on him, clean his boots, sweep the floors,etc. In short, she had to do the duties of an ordinary maid.The next morning before daybreak the iron man carried her back to herbedroom in the castle. When she awoke she went to her father and told himthat she did not know if it had actually happened, or if she had onlydreamed that she had been taken to a soldier's room and been forced toserve him.Looking at his daughter, the king saw a black spot on her face. Then heperceived that it could have been so, and said that this evening sheshould put a piece of chalk in her pocket, and that she should draw a lineand a cross on the front door of the house where she was taken, so thatthey would be able to find the house again. This she did. However, theiron man noticed, and drew a line and a cross on every front door in thecity. The next morning she again told her father what had happened to her.The king ordered his people to find the house where a line and a cross hadbeen drawn. They returned without success, because this sign was on everyhouse.The king became angry and ordered his soldiers to encircle the entirecastle so that not even a mouse could enter or leave. And he posted astrong guard before his daughter's bedroom door. But nonetheless thatevening she was taken away again, for no one could see the iron man. Thenext morning she again told of her experience, and that she had received arough slap from the soldier that evening. The finger marks could still beseen on her cheek.This was too much for the king, and he quietly said into his daughter'sear, making three crosses at the same time, that this evening she shouldput on his gold ring and put it under the soldier's bed. This she did."Oh," she said the next morning. "Last night he soldier beat me terriblybecause I refused to serve him properly."Then the king ordered that every house in the city be searched for thesoldier and the hidden ring. When they found the ring under a bed theywere to bring the man who owned the bed to him. Before long the ring wasfound in the soldier's room, for he had not noticed that the princess hadhidden it.Our soldier was condemned to the gallows, and his execution day was set.He had three days to prepare for his death. During this time he had theopportunity to send a messenger to his home for the candles. The messengerbrought them, and now the iron man had to come and rescue the soldier.The iron man said, "Wait until you are standing on the board beneath thegallows. Then you can have one last wish that will have to be granted toyou. You have your candle. light it and I'll be there. I will do what Ihave to do. No one I touch will ever again have a headache."And that is what happened. The soldier was happy and cheerful, whichcaused the prison guard to wonder more than a little. He ate and drank andslept so peacefully, as though he did not know that he was about to die.When he was finally standing on the board, and the hangman was about totie the latest fashion in neckties on him, the soldier said, "Wait, it'snot yet time for that. I still have a request that you will surely grantme.""Yes," said the king, who had also come with his daughter, so that shecould see what would happen to the scoundrel who had so abused her. "Yes,the request shall be granted to you, if it is not an unreasonable one.""I only want to light my candle and see it burning one more time.""That can happen," said the king.So the candle was lit, and immediately the iron man was there with a thickcudgel. He first struck the hangman dead and then the people standingnearby, mowing them down viciously. The king took fright as the iron manmoved closer and closer with his cudgel. He called out to the soldier,asking him to order the iron man to stop, and promising that soldier thathe could have the princess as a wife.With that the soldier blew out the candle, and the iron man disappeared.The soldier received his wife, and now had the unlimited respect ofeveryone, even his father in law. And if the king ever resisted, thesoldier had only to say, "So, should the iron man come?" Then everythinghappened that the soldier wanted.He later became king, and in times of war or great need he now and thencalled on the iron man, who always helped him. However, when the solderdied, the candles disappeared as well.