Once there lived a certain king who understood the language of all birdsand beasts and insects. This knowledge had of course been given him by afairy godmother. but it was rather a troublesome present, for he knew thatif he were ever to reveal anything he had thus learned he would turn intoa stone. How he managed to avoid doing so long before this story opens Icannot say, but he had safely grown up to manhood, and married a wife, andwas as happy as monarchs generally are.This king, I must tell you, was a Hindu. and when a Hindu eats his food hehas a nice little place on the ground freshly plastered with mud, and hesits in the middle of it with very few clothes on   which is quite adifferent way from ours. Well, one day the king was eating his dinner injust such a nice, clean, mud plastered spot, and his wife was sittingopposite to wait upon him and keep him company. As he ate he dropped somegrains of rice upon the ground, and a little ant, who was running aboutseeking a living, seized upon one of the grains and bore it off towardshis hole.Just outside the king's circle this ant met another ant, and the kingheard the second one say, "Oh, dear friend, do give me that grain of rice,and get another one for yourself. You see my boots are so dirty that, if Iwere to go upon the king's eating place, I should defile it, and I can'tdo that, it would be so very rude."But the owner of the grain of rice only replied, "If you want rice go andget it. No one will notice your dirty boots. and you don't suppose that Iam going to carry rice for all our kindred?"Then the king laughed. The queen looked at herself up and down, but shecould not see or feel anything in her appearance to make the king laugh,so she said, "What are you laughing at?""Did I laugh?" replied the king."Of course you did," retorted the queen. "and if you think that I amridiculous I wish you would say so, instead of behaving in that stupidway! What are you laughing at?""I'm not laughing at anything," answered the king."Very well, but you did laugh, and l want to know why.""Well, I'm afraid I can't tell you," said the king."You must tell me," replied the queen impatiently. "If you laugh whenthere's nothing to laugh at you must be ill or mad. What is the matter?Still the king refused to say, and still the queen declared that she mustand would know. For days the quarrel went on, and the queen gave herhusband no rest, until at last the poor man was almost out of his wits,and thought that, as life had become for him hardly worth living whilethis went on, he might as well tell her the secret and take theconsequences."But," thought he, "if I am to become a stone, I am not going to lie, if Ican help it, on some dusty highway, to be kicked here and there by man andbeast, flung at dogs, be used as the plaything of naughty children, andbecome generally restless and miserable. I will be a stone at the bottomof the cool river, and roll gently about there until I find some secureresting place where I can stay for ever."So he told his wife that if she would ride with him to the middle of theriver he would tell her what he had laughed at. She thought he was joking,and laughingly agreed. their horses were ordered and they set out. On theway they came to a fine well beneath the shade of some lofty,wide spreading trees, and the king proposed that they should get off andrest a little, drink some of the cool water, and then pass on. To this thequeen consented. so they dismounted and sat down in the shade by thewell side to rest.It happened that an old goat and his wife were browsing in theneighbourhood, and, as the king and queen sat there, the nanny goat cameto the well's brink and peering over saw some lovely green leaves thatsprang in tender shoots out of the side of the well. "Oh!" cried she toher husband, "come quickly and look. Here are some leaves which make mymouth water. come and get them for me!"Then the billy goat sauntered up and looked over, and after that he eyedhis wife a little crossly. "You expect me to get you those leaves, do you?I suppose you don't consider how in the world I am to reach them? Youdon't seem to think at all. if you did you would know that if I tried toreach those leaves I should fall into the well and be drowned!""Oh," cried the nanny goat, "why should you fall in? Do try and get them!""I am not going to be so silly," replied the billy goat. But the nannygoat still wept and entreated."Look here," said her husband, "there are plenty of fools in the world,but I am not one of them. This silly king here, because he can't cure hiswife of asking questions, is going to throw his life away. But I know howto cure you of your follies, and I'm going to." And with that he buttedthe nanny goat so severely that in two minutes she was submissivelyfeeding somewhere else, and had made up her mind that the leaves in thewell were not worth having.Then the king, who had understood every word, laughed once more. The queenlooked at him suspiciously, but the king got up and walked across to whereshe sat."Are you still determined to find out what I was laughing at the otherday?" he asked."Quite," answered the queen angrily."Because," said the king, tapping his leg with his riding whip, "I've madeup my mind not to tell you, and moreover, I have made up my mind to stopyou mentioning the subject any more.""What do you mean?" asked the queen nervously."Well," replied the king, "I notice that if that goat is displeased withhis wife, he just butts her, and that seems to settle the question.""Do you mean to say you would beat me?" cried the queen."I should be extremely sorry to have to do so," replied the king. "but Ihave to persuade you to go home quietly, and to ask no more sillyquestions when I say I cannot answer them. Of course, if you willpersist, why  "And the queen went home, and so did the king. and it is said that they areboth happier and wiser than ever before.