Now, it chanced at one time during the chase, while they were huntingover the plain of Cliach, that Finn went to rest on the hill ofCollkilla, which is now called Knockainy. and he had his hunting tentspitched on a level spot near the summit, and some of his chief heroestarried with him.When the King and his companions had taken their places on the hill, theFeni unleashed their gracefully shaped, sweet voiced hounds through thewoods and sloping glens. And it was sweet music to Finn's ear, the cryof the long snouted dogs, as they routed the deer from their covers andthe badgers from their dens. the pleasant, emulating shouts of theyouths. the whistling and signalling of the huntsmen. and theencouraging cheers of the mighty heroes, as they spread themselvesthrough the glens and woods, and over the broad green plain of Cliach.Then did Finn ask who of all his companions would go to the highestpoint of the hill directly over them to keep watch and ward and toreport how the chase went on. For, he said, the Dedannans were ever onthe watch to work the Feni mischief by their druidical spells, and moreso during the chase than at other times.Finn Ban Mac Bresal stood forward and offered to go. and, grasping hisbroad spears, he went to the top, and sat viewing the plain to the fourpoints of the sky. And the King and his companions brought forth thechess board and chess men and sat them down to a game.Finn Ban Mac Bresal had been watching only a little time when he saw ona plain to the east a Fomor of vast size coming towards the hill,leading a horse. As he came nearer Finn Ban observed that he was theugliest looking giant his eyes ever lighted on. He had a large, thickbody, bloated and swollen out to a great size. clumsy, crooked legs. andbroad, flat feet turned inwards. His hands and arms and shoulders werebony and thick and very strong looking. his neck was long and thin. andwhile his head was poked forward, his face was turned up, as he staredstraight at Finn Mac Bresal. He had thick lips, and long, crooked teeth.and his face was covered all over with bushy hair.He was fully armed. but all his weapons were rusty and soiled andslovenly looking. A broad shield of a dirty, sooty colour, rough andbattered, hung over his back. he had a long, heavy, straight sword athis left hip. and he held in his left hand two thick handled,broad headed spears, old and rusty, and seeming as if they had not beenhandled for years. In his right hand he held an iron club, which hedragged after him with its end on the ground. and, as it trailed along,it tore up a track as deep as the furrow a farmer ploughs with a team ofoxen.The horse he led was even larger in proportion than the giant himself,and quite as ugly. His great carcass was covered all over with tangledscraggy hair, of a sooty black. you could count his ribs and all thepoints of his big bones through his hide. his legs were crooked andknotty. his neck was twisted. and as for his jaws, they were so long andheavy that they made his head look twice too large for his body.The giant held him by a thick halter, and seemed to be dragging himforward by main force, the animal was so lazy and so hard to move. Everynow and then, when the beast tried to stand still, the giant would givehim a blow on the ribs with his big iron club, which sounded as loud asthe thundering of a great billow against the rough headed rocks of thecoast. When he gave him a pull forward by the halter, the wonder wasthat he did not drag the animal's head away from his body. and, on theother hand, the horse often gave the halter such a tremendous tugbackwards that it was equally wonderful how the arm of the giant was nottorn away from his shoulder.When at last he had come up he bowed his head and bended his knee, andsaluted the King with great respect.Finn addressed him. and after having given him leave to speak he askedhim who he was, and what was his name, and whether he belonged to one ofthe noble or ignoble races. also what was his profession or craft, andwhy he had no servant to attend to his horse.The big man made answer and said, "King of the Feni, whether I come of anoble or of an ignoble race, that, indeed, I cannot tell, for I know notwho my father and mother were. As to where I came from, I am a Fomor ofLochlann in the north. but I have no particular dwelling place, for I amcontinually travelling about from one country to another, serving thegreat lords and nobles of the world, and receiving wages for my service."In the course of my wanderings I have often heard of you, O King, andof your greatness and splendour and royal bounty. and I have come now toask you to take me into your service for one year. and at the end ofthat time I shall fix my own wages, according to my custom."You ask me also why I have no servant for this great horse of mine. Thereason of that is this: at every meal I eat my master must give me asmuch food and drink as would be enough for a hundred men. and whosoeverthe lord or chief may be that takes me into his service, it is quiteenough for him to have to provide for me, without having also to feed myservant."Moreover, I am so very heavy and lazy that I should never be able tokeep up with a company on march if I had to walk. and this is my reasonfor keeping a horse at all."My name is the Gilla Dacker, and it is not without good reason that Iam so called. For there never was a lazier or worse servant than I am,or one that grumbles more at doing a day's work for his master. And I amthe hardest person in the world to deal with. for, no matter how good ornoble I may think my master, or how kindly he may treat me, it is hardwords and foul reproaches I am likely to give him for thanks in the end."This, O Finn, is the account I have to give of myself, and these are myanswers to your questions.""Well," answered Finn, "according to your own account you are not a verypleasant fellow to have anything to do with. and of a truth there is notmuch to praise in your appearance. But things may not be so bad as yousay. and, anyhow, as I have never yet refused any man service and wages,I will not now refuse you."Whereupon Finn and the Gilla Dacker made covenants, and the Gilla Dackerwas taken into service for a year."And now," said the Gilla Dacker, "as to this same horse of mine, I findI must attend to him myself, as I see no one here worthy of putting ahand near him. So I will lead him to the nearest stud, as I am wont todo, and let him graze among your horses. I value him greatly, however,and it would grieve me very much if any harm were to befall him. so,"continued he, turning to the King, "I put him under your protection, OKing, and under the protection of all the Feni that are here present."At this speech the Feni all burst out laughing to see the Gilla Dackershowing such concern for his miserable, worthless old skeleton of ahorse.Howbeit, the big man, giving not the least heed to their merriment, tookthe halter off the horse's head and turned him loose among the horses ofthe Feni.But now, this same wretched looking old animal, instead of beginning tograze, as everyone thought he would, ran in among the horses of theFeni, and began straightway to work all sorts of mischief. He cocked hislong, hard, switchy tail straight out like a rod, and, throwing up hishind legs, he kicked about on this side and on that, maiming anddisabling several of the horses. Sometimes he went tearing through thethickest of the herd, butting at them with his hard, bony forehead. andhe opened out his lips with a vicious grin and tore all he could layhold on with his sharp, crooked teeth, so that none were safe that camein his way either before or behind.At last he left them, and was making straight across to a small fieldwhere Conan Mail's horses were grazing by themselves, intending to playthe same tricks among them. But Conan, seeing this, shouted in greatalarm to the Gilla Dacker to bring away his horse, and not let him workany more mischief. and threatening, if he did not do so at once, to gohimself and knock the brains out of the vicious old brute on the spot.But the Gilla Dacker told Conan that he saw no way of preventing hishorse from joining the others, except someone put the halter on him."And," said he to Conan, "there is the halter. and if you are in anyfear for your own animals, you may go yourself and bring him away fromthe field."Conan was in a mighty rage when he heard this. and as he saw the bighorse just about to cross the fence, he snatched up the halter, and,running forward with long strides, he threw it over the animal's headand thought to lead him back. But in a moment the horse stood stockstill, and his body and legs became as stiff as if they were made ofwood. and though Conan pulled and tugged with might and main, he was notable to stir him an inch from his place.At last Fergus Finnvel, the poet, spoke to Conan and said, "I neverwould have believed, Conan Mail, that you could be brought to dohorse service for any knight or noble in the whole world. but now,indeed, I see that you have made yourself a horse boy to an ugly foreigngiant, so hateful looking and low born that not a man of the Feni wouldhave anything to say to him. As you have, however, to mind this oldhorse in order to save your own, would it not be better for you to mounthim and revenge yourself for all the trouble he is giving you, by ridinghim across the country, over the hill tops, and down into the deep glensand valleys, and through stones and bogs and all sorts of rough places,till you have broken the heart in his big ugly body?"Conan, stung by the cutting words of the poet and by the jeers of hiscompanions, jumped upon the horse's back, and began to beat him mightilywith his heels and with his two big heavy fists to make him go. but thehorse seemed not to take the least notice, and never stirred."I know the reason he does not go," said Fergus Finnvel. "he has beenaccustomed to carry a horseman far heavier than you that is to say, theGilla Dacker. and he will not move till he has the same weight on hisback."At this Conan Mail called out to his companions, and asked which of themwould mount with him and help to avenge the damage done to their horses."I will go," said Coil Croda the Battle Victor, son of Criffan. and uphe went. But the horse never moved.Dara Donn Mac Morna next offered to go, and mounted behind the others.and after him Angus Mac Art Mac Morna. And the end of it was thatfourteen men of the Clann Baskin and Clann Morna got up along withConan. and all began to thrash the horse together with might and main.But they were none the better for it, for he remained standing stiff andimmovable as before. They found, moreover, that their seat was not atall an easy one the animal's back was so sharp and bony.When the Gilla Dacker saw the Feni beating his horse at such a rate heseemed very angry, and addressed the King in these words:"King of the Feni, I now see plainly that all the fine accounts I heardabout you and the Feni are false, and I will not stay in yourservice no, not another hour. You can see for yourself the ill usagethese men are giving my horse without cause. and I leave you to judgewhether anyone could put up with it anyone who had the least regard forhis horse. The time is, indeed, short since I entered your service, butI now think it a great deal too long. so pay me my wages and let me gomy ways."But Finn said, "I do not wish you to go. stay on till the end of youryear, and then I will pay you all I promised you.""I swear," answered the Gilla Dacker, "that if this were the very lastday of my year, I would not wait till morning for my wages after thisinsult. So, wages or no wages, I will now seek another master. but fromthis time forth I shall know what to think of Finn Mac Cumal and hisFeni!"With that the Gilla Dacker stood up as straight as a pillar, and,turning his face towards the south west, he walked slowly away.When the horse saw his master leaving the hill he stirred himself atonce and walked quietly after him, bringing the fifteen men away on hisback. And when the Feni saw this they raised a loud shout of laughter,mocking them.The Gilla Dacker, after he had walked some little way, looked back, and,seeing that his horse was following, he stood for a moment to tuck uphis skirts. Then, all at once changing his pace, he set out with long,active strides. and if you know what the speed of a swallow is flyingacross a mountain side, or the dry fairy wind of a March day sweepingover the plains, then you can understand the swiftness of the GillaDacker as he ran down the hill side towards the south west.Neither was the horse behindhand in the race. for though he carried aheavy load, he galloped like the wind after his master, plunging andbounding forward with as much freedom as if he had nothing at all on hisback.The men now tried to throw themselves off. but this, indeed, they werenot able to do, for the good reason that they found themselves fastenedfirmly, hands and feet and all, to the horse's back.And now Conan, looking round, raised his big voice and shouted to Finnand the Feni, asking them were they content to let their friends becarried off in that manner by such a horrible, foul looking old spectreof a horse.Finn and the others, hearing this, seized their arms and started off inpursuit. Now, the way the Gilla Dacker and his horse took was firstthrough Fermore, which is at the present day called Hy Conall Gavra.next over the wide, heathy summit of Slieve Lougher. from that to CorcaDivna. and they ran along by Slieve Mish till they reached CloghanKincat, near the deep green sea.And so the great horse continued his course without stop or stay,bringing the sixteen Feni with him through the sea. Now, this is howthey fared in the sea while the horse was rushing farther and farther tothe west: they had always a dry, firm strand under them, for the watersretired before the horse. while behind them was a wild, raging sea,which followed close after and seemed ready every moment to topple overtheir heads. But, though the billows were tumbling and roaring allround, neither horse nor riders were wetted by as much as a drop ofbrine or a dash of spray.Then Finn spoke and asked the chiefs what they thought best to be done.and they told him they would follow whatsoever counsel he and FergusFinnvel, the poet, gave them. Then Finn told Fergus to speak his mind.and Fergus said:"My counsel is that we go straightway to Ben Edar, where we shall find aship ready to sail. For our forefathers, when they wrested the land fromthe gifted, bright complexioned Dedannans, bound them by covenant tomaintain this ship for ever, fitted with all things needful for avoyage, even to the smallest article, as one of the privileges of BenEdar. so that if at any time one of the noble sons of Gael Glas wishedto sail to distant lands from Erin, he should have a ship lying at handin the harbour ready to begin his voyage."They agreed to this counsel, and turned their steps without delaynorthwards towards Ben Edar. They had not gone far when they met twonoble looking youths, fully armed, and wearing over their armourbeautiful mantles of scarlet silk, fastened by brooches of gold. Thestrangers saluted the King with much respect. and the King saluted themin return. Then, having given them leave to converse, he asked them whothey were, whither they had come, and who the prince or chief was thatthey served. And the elder answered:"My name is Feradach, and my brother's name is Foltlebar. and we are thetwo sons of the King of Innia. Each of us professes an art. and it haslong been a point of dispute between us which art is the better, mybrother's or mine. Hearing that there is not in the world a wiser ormore far seeing man than thou art, O King, we have come to ask thee totake us into thy service among thy household troops for a year, and atthe end of that time to give judgment between us in this matter."Finn asked them what were the two arts they professed."My art," answered Feradach, "is this. If at any time a company ofwarriors need a ship, give me only my joiner's axe and my crann tavall,and I am able to provide a ship for them without delay. The only think Iask them to do is this to cover their heads close, and keep themcovered, while I give the crann tavall three blows of my axe. Then Itell them to uncover their heads. and lo, there lies the ship in harbourready to sail!"Then Foltlebar spoke and said, "This, O King, is the art I profess. Onland I can track the wild duck over nine ridges and nine glens, andfollow her without being once thrown out till I drop upon her in hernest. And I can follow up a track on sea quite as well as on land if Ihave a good ship and crew."Finn replied, "You are the very men I want. and I now take you both intomy service. At this moment I need a good ship and a skilful pilot morethan any two things in the whole world."Whereupon Finn told them the whole story of the Gilla Dacker's doingsfrom beginning to end. "And we are now," said he, "on our way to BenEdar to seek a ship that we may follow this giant and his horse andrescue our companions."Then Feradach said, "I will get you a ship a ship that will sail asswiftly as a swallow can fly!"And Foltlebar said, "I will guide your ship in the track of the GillaDacker till ye lay hands on him, in whatsoever quarter of the world hemay have hidden himself!"And so they turned back to Cloghan Kincat. And when they had come to thebeach Feradach told them to cover their heads, and they did so. Then hestruck three blows of his axe on the crann tavall. after which he madethem look. And lo, they saw a ship fully fitted out with oars and sailsand with all things needed for a long voyage riding before them in theharbour!Then they went on board and launched their ship on the cold, bright sea.and Foltlebar was their pilot and steersman. And they set their sail andplied their slender oars, and the ship moved swiftly westward till theylost sight of the shores of Erin. and they saw nothing all round thembut a wide girdle of sea. After some days' sailing a great storm camefrom the west, and the black waves rose up against them so that they hadmuch ado to keep their vessel from sinking. But through all the roaringof the tempest, through the rain and blinding spray, Foltlebar neverstirred from the helm or changed his course, but still kept close on thetrack of the Gilla Dacker.At length the storm abated and the sea grew calm. And when the darknesshad cleared away they saw to the west, a little way off, a vast rockycliff towering over their heads to such a height that its head seemedhidden among the clouds. It rose up sheer from the very water, andlooked at that distance as smooth as glass, so that at first sightthere seemed no way to reach the top.Foltlebar, after examining to the four points of the sky, found thetrack of the Gilla Dacker as far as the cliff, but no farther. And heaccordingly told the heroes that he thought it was on the top of thatrock the giant lived. and that, anyhow, the horse must have made his wayup the face of the cliff with their companions.When the heroes heard this they were greatly cast down and puzzled whatto do. for they saw no way of reaching the top of the rock. and theyfeared they should have to give up the quest and return without theircompanions. And they sat down and looked up at the cliff with sorrow andvexation in their hearts.Fergus Finnvel, the poet, then challenged the hero Dermat O'Dyna toclimb the rock in pursuit of the Gilla Dacker, and he did so, and onreaching the summit found himself in a beautiful fairy plain. He faredacross it and came to a great tree laden with fruit beside a well asclear as crystal. Hard by, on the brink of the well, stood a tall pillarstone, and on its top lay a golden chased drinking horn. He filled thehorn from the well and drank, but had scarcely taken it from his lipswhen he saw a fully armed wizard champion advancing to meet him withlooks and gestures of angry menace. The wizard upbraided him forentering his territory without leave and for drinking out of his wellfrom his drinking horn, and thereupon challenged him to fight. For fourdays long they fought, the wizard escaping from Dermat every even fallby leaping into the well and disappearing down through it. But on thefourth evening Dermat closed with the wizard when about to spring intothe water, and fell with him into the well.On reaching the bottom the wizard wrested himself away and startedrunning, and Dermat found himself in a strangely beautiful country witha royal palace hard by, in front of which armed knights were engaged inwarlike exercises. Through them the wizard ran, but, when Dermatattempted to follow, his way was barred by their threatening weapons.Nothing daunted, he fell upon them in all his battle fury, and routedthem so entirely that they fled and shut themselves up in the castle ortook refuge in distant woods.Overcome with his battle toil (and smarting all over with wounds) Dermatfell into a dead sleep, from which he was wakened by a friendly blowfrom the flat of a sword held by a young, golden haired hero, who provedto be the brother of the Knight of Valour, King of that country ofTir fa tonn, whom in the guise of the Knight of the Fountain, Dermat hadfought and chased away.A part of the kingdom belonging to him had been seized by his wizardbrother, and he now seeks and obtains Dermat's aid to win it back forhim.When Dermat at last meets Finn and the other Feni who had gone inpursuit of him into the Kingdom of Sorca, at the summit of the greatrock, he is able to relate how he headed the men of the Knight of Valouragainst the Wizard King, and slew him and defeated his army."And now," continued he, bringing forth the Knight of Valour from amongthe strange host, "this is he who was formerly called the Knight ofValour, but who is now the King of Tir fa tonn. Moreover, this King hastold me, having himself found it out by his druidical art, that it wasAvarta the Dedannan (the son of Illahan of the Many coloured Raiment)who took the form of the Gilla Dacker, and who brought the sixteen Feniaway to the Land of Promise, where he now holds them in bondage."Then Foltlebar at once found the tracks of the Gilla Dacker and hishorse. He traced them from the very edge of the rock across the plain tothe sea at the other side. and they brought round their ship and begantheir voyage. But this time Foltlebar found it very hard to keep on thetrack. for the Gilla Dacker, knowing that there were not in the worldmen more skilled in following up a quest than the Feni, took great painsto hide all traces of the flight of himself and his horse. so thatFoltlebar was often thrown out. but he always recovered the track aftera little time.And so they sailed from island to island and from bay to bay, over manyseas and by many shores, ever following the track, till at length theyarrived at the Land of Promise. And when they had made the land, andknew for a certainty that this was indeed the Land of Promise, theyrejoiced greatly. for in this land Dermat O'Dyna had been nurtured byMannanan Mac Lir of the Yellow Hair.Then they held council as to what was best to be done. and Finn's advicewas that they should burn and spoil the country in revenge of theoutrage that had been done to his people. Dermat, however, would nothear of this. And he said:"Not so, O King. The people of this land are of all men the most skilledin druidic art. and it is not well that they should be at feud with us.Let us rather send to Avarta a trusty herald to demand that he shouldset our companions at liberty. If he does so, then we shall be at peace.if he refuse, then shall we proclaim war against him and his people, andwaste this land with fire and sword till he be forced, even by his ownpeople, to give us back our friends."This advice was approved by all. And then Finn said:"But how shall heralds reach the dwelling of this enchanter. for theways are not open and straight, as in other lands, but crooked and madefor concealment, and the valleys and plains are dim and shadowy and hardto be traversed?"But Foltlebar, nothing daunted by the dangers and the obscurity of theway, offered to go with a single trusty companion. and they took up thetrack and followed it without being once thrown out, till they reachedthe mansion of Avarta. There they found their friends amusing themselveson the green outside the palace walls. for, though kept captive in theisland, yet were they in no wise restrained, but were treated by Avartawith much kindness. When they saw the heralds coming towards them theirjoy knew no bounds. they crowded round to embrace them, and asked themmany questions regarding their home and their friends.At last Avarta himself came forth and asked who these strangers were.and Foltlebar replied:"We are of the people of Finn Mac Cumal, who has sent us as heralds tothee. He and his heroes have landed on this island guided hither by me.and he bade us tell thee that he has come to wage war and to waste thisland with fire and sword as a punishment for that thou hast brought awayhis people by foul spells, and even now keepest them in bondage."When Avarta heard this he made no reply, but called a council of hischief men to consider whether they should send back to Finn an answer ofwar or of peace. And they, having much fear of the Feni, were minded torestore Finn's people and to give him his own award in satisfaction forthe injury done to him. and to invite Finn himself and those who hadcome with him to a feast of joy and friendship in the house of Avarta.Avarta himself went with Foltlebar to give this message. And after heand Finn had exchanged friendly greetings, he told them what the councilhad resolved. and Finn and Dermat and the others were glad at heart. AndFinn and Avarta put hand in hand and made a league of friendship.So they went with Avarta to his house, where they found their lostfriends. and, being full of gladness, they saluted and embraced eachother. Then a feast was prepared. and they were feasted for three days,and they ate and drank and made merry.On the fourth day a meeting was called on the green to hear the award.Now, it was resolved to make amends on the one hand to Finn, as King ofthe Feni, and on the other to those who had been brought away by theGilla Dacker. And when all were gathered together Finn was first askedto name his award. and this is what he said:"I shall not name an award, O Avarta. neither shall I accept an ericfrom thee. But the wages I promised thee when we made our covenant atKnockainy, that I will give thee. For I am thankful for the welcome thouhast given us here. and I wish that there should be peace and friendshipbetween us for ever."But Conan, on his part, was not so easily satisfied. and he said toFinn:"Little hast thou endured, O Finn, in this matter. and thou mayst wellwaive thy award. But hadst thou, like us, suffered from the sharp bonesand the rough carcass of the Gilla Dacker's monstrous horse in a longjourney from Erin to the Land of Promise, across wide seas, throughtangled woods, and over rough headed rocks, thou wouldst then, methinks,name an award."At this, Avarta and the others who had seen Conan and his companionscarried off on the back of the big horse could scarce keep fromlaughing. and Avarta said to Conan:"Name thy award, and I will fulfil it every jot. for I have heard ofthee, Conan, and I dread to bring the gibes and taunts of thy foultongue on myself and my people.""Well, then," said Conan, "my award is this: that you choose fifteen ofthe best and noblest men in the Land of Promise, among whom are to beyour own best beloved friends. and that you cause them to mount on theback of the big horse, and that you yourself take hold of his tail. Inthis manner you shall fare to Erin, back again by the self same trackthe horse took when he brought us hither through the same surging seas,through the same thick thorny woods, and over the same islands andrough rocks and dark glens. And this, Avarta, is my award," said Conan.Now, Finn and his people were rejoiced exceedingly when they heardConan's award that he asked from Avarta nothing more than like forlike. For they feared much that he might claim treasure of gold andsilver, and thus bring reproach on the Feni.Avarta promised that everything required by Conan should be done,binding himself in solemn pledges. Then the heroes took their leave. andhaving launched their ship on the broad, green sea, they sailed back bythe same course to Erin. And they marched to their camping place atKnockainy, where they rested in their tents.Avarta then chose his men. And he placed them on the horse's back, andhe himself caught hold of the tail. and it is not told how they faredtill they made harbour and landing place at Cloghan Kincat. They delayednot, but straightway journeyed over the self same track as before tillthey reached Knockainy.Finn and his people saw them afar off coming towards the hill with greatspeed. the Gilla Dacker, quite as large and as ugly as ever, runningbefore the horse. for he had let go the tail at Cloghan Kincat. And theFeni could not help laughing heartily when they saw the plight of thefifteen chiefs on the great horse's back. and they said with one voicethat Conan had made a good award that time.When the horse reached the spot from which he had at first set out themen began to dismount. Then the Gilla Dacker, suddenly stepping forward,held up his arm and pointed earnestly over the heads of the Fenitowards the field where the horses were standing. so that the heroeswere startled, and turned round every man to look. But nothing was to beseen except the horses grazing quietly inside the fence.Finn and the others now turned round again with intent to speak to theGilla Dacker and bring him and his people into the tents. but much didthey marvel to find them all gone. The Gilla Dacker and his great horseand fifteen nobles of the Land of Promise had disappeared in an instant.and neither Finn himself nor any of his chiefs ever saw them afterwards.PATRICK WESTON JOYCE.