A long way off, near the sea coast of the east of Africa, there dwelt,once upon a time, a man and his wife. They had two children, a son anda daughter, whom they loved very much, and, like parents in othercountries, they often talked of the fine marriages the young peoplewould make some day. Out there both boys and girls marry early, andvery soon, it seemed to the mother, a message was sent by a rich man onthe other side of the great hills offering a fat herd of oxen inexchange for the girl. Everyone in the house and in the villagerejoiced, and the maiden was despatched to her new home. When all wasquiet again the father said to his son:'Now that we own such a splendid troop of oxen you had better hastenand get yourself a wife, lest some illness should overtake them.Already we have seen in the villages round about one or two damselswhose parents would gladly part with them for less than half the herd.Therefore tell us which you like best, and we will buy her for you.'But the son answered:'Not so. the maidens I have seen do not please me. If, indeed, I mustmarry, let me travel and find a wife for myself.''It shall be as you wish,' said the parents. 'but if by and by troubleshould come of it, it will be your fault and not ours.'The youth, however, would not listen. and bidding his father and motherfarewell, set out on his search. Far, far away he wandered, overmountains and across rivers, till he reached a village where the peoplewere quite different from those of his own race. He glanced about himand noticed that the girls were fair to look upon, as they poundedmaize or stewed something that smelt very nice in earthenpots especially if you were hot and tired. and when one of the maidensturned round and offered the stranger some dinner, he made up his mindthat he would wed her and nobody else.So he sent a message to her parents asking their leave to take her forhis wife, and they came next day to bring their answer.'We will give you our daughter,' said they, 'if you can pay a goodprice for her. Never was there so hardworking a girl. and how we shalldo without her we cannot tell! Still  no doubt your father and motherwill come themselves and bring the price?''No. I have the price with me,' replied the young man. laying down ahandful of gold pieces. 'Here it is take it.'The old couple's eyes glittered greedily. but custom forbade them totouch the price before all was arranged.'At least,' said they, after a moment's pause, 'we may expect them tofetch your wife to her new home?''No. they are not used to travelling,' answered the bridegroom. 'Letthe ceremony be performed without delay, and we will set forth at once.It is a long journey.'Then the parents called in the girl, who was lying in the sun outsidethe hut, and, in the presence of all the village, a goat was killed,the sacred dance took place, and a blessing was said over the heads ofthe young people. After that the bride was led aside by her father,whose duty it was to bestow on her some parting advice as to herconduct in her married life.'Be good to your husband's parents,' added he, 'and always do the willof your husband.' And the girl nodded her head obediently. Next itwas the mother's turn. and, as was the custom of the tribe, she spoketo her daughter:'Will you choose which of your sisters shall go with you to cut yourwood and carry your water?''I do not want any of them,' answered she. 'they are no use. They willdrop the wood and spill the water.''Then will you have any of the other children? There are enough tospare,' asked the mother again. But the bride said quickly:'I will have none of them! You must give me our buffalo, the Rover ofthe Plain. he alone shall serve me.''What folly you talk!' cried the parents. 'Give you our buffalo, theRover of the Plain? Why, you know that our life depends on him. Herehe is well fed and lies on soft grass. but how can you tell what willbefall him in another country? The food may be bad, he will die ofhunger. and, if he dies we die also.''No, no,' said the bride. 'I can look after him as well as you. Gethim ready, for the sun is sinking and it is time we set forth.'So she went away and put together a small pot filled with healingherms, a horn that she used in tending sick people, a little knife, anda calabash containing deer fat. and, hiding these about her, she tookleave of her father and mother and started across the mountains by theside of her husband.But the young man did not see the buffalo that followed them, which hadleft his home to be the servant of his wife.No one ever knew how the news spread to the kraal that the young manwas coming back, bringing a wife with him. but, somehow or other, whenthe two entered the village, every man and woman was standing in theroad uttering shouts of welcome.'Ah, you are not dead after all,' cried they. 'and have found a wife toyour liking, though you would have none of our girls. Well, well, youhave chosen your own path. and if ill comes of it beware lest yougrumble.'Next day the husband took his wife to the fields and showed her whichwere his, and which belonged to his mother. The girl listenedcarefully to all he told her, and walked with him back to the hut. butclose to the door she stopped, and said:'I have dropped my necklace of beads in the field, and I must go andlook for it.' But in truth she had done nothing of the sort, and itwas only an excuse to go and seek the buffalo.The beast was crouching under a tree when she came up, and snorted withpleasure at the sight of her.'You can roam about this field, and this, and this,' she said, 'forthey belong to my husband. and that is his wood, where you may hideyourself. But the other fields are his mother's, so beware lest youtouch them.''I will beware,' answered the buffalo. and, patting his head, the girlleft him.Oh, how much better a servant he was than any of the little girls thebride had refused to bring with her! If she wanted water, she had onlyto cross the patch of maize behind the hut and seek out the place wherethe buffalo lay hidden, and put down her pail beside him. Then shewould sit at her ease while he went to the lake and brought the bucketback brimming over. If she wanted wood, he would break the branchesoff the trees and lay them at her feet. And the villagers watched herreturn laden, and said to each other:'Surely the girls of her country are stronger than our girls, for noneof them could cut so quickly or carry so much!' But then, nobody knewthat she had a buffalo for a servant.Only, all this time she never gave the poor buffalo anything to eat,because she had just one dish, out of which she and her husband ate.while in her old home there was a dish put aside expressly for theRover of the Plain. The buffalo bore it as long as he could. but, oneday, when his mistress bade him go to the lake and fetch water, hisknees almost gave way from hunger. He kept silence, however, till theevening, when he said to his mistress:'I am nearly starved. I have not touched food since I came here. I canwork no more.''Alas!' answered she, 'what can I do? I have only one dish in thehouse. You will have to steal some beans from the fields. Take a fewhere and a few there. but be sure not to take too many from one place,or the owner may notice it.'Now the buffalo had always lived an honest life, but if his mistressdid not feed him, he must get food for himself. So that night, whenall the village was asleep, he came out from the wood and ate a fewbeans here and a few there, as his mistress had bidden him. And whenat last his hunger was satisfied, he crept back to his lair. But abuffalo is not a fairy, and the next morning, when the women arrived towork in the fields, they stood still with astonishment, and said toeach other:'Just look at this. a savage beast has been destroying our crops, andwe can see the traces of his feet!' And they hurried to their homes totell their tale.In the evening the girl crept out to the buffalo's hiding place, andsaid to him:'They perceived what happened, of course. so to night you had betterseek your supper further off.' And the buffalo nodded his head andfollowed her counsel. but in the morning, when these women also wentout to work, the races of hoofs were plainly to be seen, and theyhastened to tell their husbands, and begged them to bring their guns,and to watch for the robber.It happened that the stranger girl's husband was the best marksman inall the village, and he hid himself behind the trunk of a tree andwaited.The buffalo, thinking that they would probably make a search for him inthe fields he had laid waste the evening before, returned to the beanpatch belonging to his mistress.The young man saw him coming with amazement.'Why, it is a buffalo!' cried he. 'I never have beheld one in thiscountry before!' And raising his gun, he aimed just behind the ear.The buffalo gave a leap into the air, and then fell dead.'It was a good shot,' said the young man. And he ran to the village totell them that the thief was punished.When he entered his hut he found his wife, who had somehow heard thenews, twisting herself to and fro and shedding tears.'Are you ill?' asked he. And she answered: 'Yes. I have pains all overmy body.' But she was not ill at all, only very unhappy at the deathof the buffalo which had served her so well. Her husband felt anxious,and sent for the medicine man. but though she pretended to listen tohim, she threw all his medicine out of the door directly he had goneaway.With the first rays of light the whole village was awake, and the womenset forth armed with baskets and the men with knives in order to cut upthe buffalo. Only the girl remained in her hut. and after a while shetoo went to join them, groaning and weeping as she walked along.'What are you doing here?' asked her husband when he saw her. 'If youare ill you are better at home.''Oh! I could not stay alone in the village,' said she. And hermother in law left off her work to come and scold her, and to tell herthat she would kill herself if she did such foolish things. But thegirl would not listen and sat down and looked on.When they had divided the buffalo's flesh, and each woman had thefamily portion in her basket, the stranger wife got up and said:'Let me have the head.''You could never carry anything so heavy,' answered the men, 'and nowyou are ill besides.''You do not know how strong I am,' answered she. And at last they gaveit her.She did not walk to the village with the others, but lingered behind,and, instead of entering her hut, she slipped into the little shedwhere the pots for cooking and storing maize were kept. Then she laiddown the buffalo's head and sat beside it. Her husband came to seekher, and begged her to leave the shed and go to bed, as she must betired out. but the girl would not stir, neither would she attend to thewords of her mother in law.'I wish you would leave me alone!' she answered crossly. 'It isimpossible to sleep if somebody is always coming in.' And she turnedher back on them, and would not even eat the food they had brought. Sothey went away, and the young man soon stretched himself out on hismat. but his wife's odd conduct made him anxious, and he lay wake allnight, listening.When all was still the girl made a fire and boiled some water in a pot.As soon as it was quite hot she shook in the medicine that she hadbrought from home, and then, taking the buffalo's head, she madeincisions with her little knife behind the ear, and close to the templewhere the shot had struck him. Next she applied the horn to the spotand blew with all her force till, at length, the blood began to move.After that she spread some of the deer fat out of the calabash over thewound, which she held in the steam of the hot water. Last of all, shesang in a low voice a dirge over the Rover of the Plain.As she chanted the final words the head moved, and the limbs came back.The buffalo began to feel alive again and shook his horns, and stoodup and stretched himself. Unluckily it was just at this moment thatthe husband said to himself:'I wonder if she is crying still, and what is the matter with her!Perhaps I had better go and see.' And he got up and, calling her byname, went out to the shed.'Go away! I don't want you!' she cried angrily. But it was too late.The buffalo had fallen to the ground, dead, and with the wound in hishead as before.The young man who, unlike most of his tribe, was afraid of his wife,returned to his bed without having seen anything, but wondering verymuch what she could be doing all this time. After waiting a fewminutes, she began her task over again, and at the end the buffalostood on his feet as before. But just as the girl was rejoicing thather work was completed, in came the husband once more to see what hiswife was doing. and this time he sat himself down in the hut, and saidthat he wished to watch whatever was going on. Then the girl took upthe pitcher and all her other things and left the shed, trying for thethird time to bring the buffalo back to life.She was too late. the dawn was already breaking, and the head fell tothe ground, dead and corrupt as it was before.The girl entered the hut, where her husband and his mother were gettingready to go out.'I want to go down to the lake, and bathe,' said she.'But you could never walk so far,' answered they. 'You are so tired,as it is, that you can hardly stand!'However, in spite of their warnings, the girl left the hut in thedirection of the lake. Very soon she came back weeping, and sobbed out:'I met some one in the village who lives in my country, and he told methat my mother is very, very ill, and if I do not go to her at once shewill be dead before I arrive. I will return as soon as I can, and nowfarewell.' And she set forth in the direction of the mountains. Butthis story was not true. she knew nothing about her mother, only shewanted an excuse to go home and tell her family that their prophecieshad come true, and that the buffalo was dead.Balancing her basket on her head, she walked along, and directly shehad left the village behind her she broke out into the song of theRover of the Plain, and at last, at the end of the day, she came to thegroup of huts where her parents lived. Her friends all ran to meether, and, weeping, she told them that the buffalo was dead.This sad news spread like lightning through the country, and the peopleflocked from far and near to bewail the loss of the beast who had beentheir pride.'If you had only listened to us,' they cried, 'he would be alive now.But you refused all the little girls we offered you, and would havenothing but the buffalo. And remember what the medicine man said: "Ifthe buffalo dies you die also!"'So they bewailed their fate, one to the other, and for a while they didnot perceive that the girl's husband was sitting in their midst,leaning his gun against a tree. Then one man, turning, beheld him, andbowed mockingly.'Hail, murderer! hail! you have slain us all!'The young man stared, not knowing what he meant, and answered,wonderingly:'I shot a buffalo. is that why you call me a murderer?''A buffalo yes. but the servant of your wife! It was he who carriedthe wood and drew the water. Did you not know it?''No. I did not know it,' replied the husband in surprise. 'Why did noone tell me? Of course I should not have shot him!''Well, he is dead,' answered they, 'and we must die too.'At this the girl took a cup in which some poisonous herbs had beencrushed, and holding it in her hands, she wailed: 'O my father, Roverof the Plain!' Then drinking a deep draught from it, fell back dead.One by one her parents, her brothers and her sisters, drank also anddied, singing a dirge to the memory of the buffalo.The girl's husband looked on with horror. and returned sadly homeacross the mountains, and, entering his hut, threw himself on theground. At first he was too tired to speak. but at length he raisedhis head and told all the story to his father and mother, who satwatching him. When he had finished they shook their heads and said:'Now you see that we spoke no idle words when we told you that illwould come of your marriage! We offered you a good and hard  workingwife, and you would have none of her. And it is not only your wife youhave lost, but your fortune also. For who will give you back yourmoney if they are all dead?''It is true, O my father,' answered the young man. But in his heart hethought more of the loss of his wife than of the money he had given forher.