The Jataka. or, Stories of the Buddha's Former BirthsOnce upon a time when a king named Senaka was reigning in Benares,the Bodhisatta was Sakka. The king Senaka was friendly with a certain nagaking. This naga king, they say, left the naga world and ranged the earthseeking food. The village boys seeing him said, "This is a snake," andstruck him with clods and other things.The king, going to amuse himself in his garden, saw them, and beingtold they were beating a snake, said, "Don't let them beat him. Drive themaway." And this was done.So the naga king got his life, and when he went back to the naga world.He took many jewels, and coming at midnight to the king's bedchamber hegave them to him, saying, "I got my life through you." So he madefriendship with the king and came again and again to see him. He appointedone of his naga girls, insatiate in pleasures, to be near the king andprotect him, and he gave the king a charm, saying, "If ever you do not seeher, repeat this charm."One day the king went to the garden with the naga girl and was amusinghimself in the lotus tank. The naga girl seeing a water snake quitted herhuman shape and made love with him. The king not seeing the girl said,"Where is she gone?" and repeated the spell. Then he saw her in hermisconduct and struck her with a piece of bamboo.She went in anger to the naga world, and when she was asked, "Why areyou come?" she said, "Your friend struck me on the back because I did notdo his bidding," showing the mark of the blow.The naga king, not knowing the truth, called four naga youths and sentthem with orders to enter Senaka's bedchamber and destroy him like chaffby the breath of their nostrils. They entered the chamber at the royalbedtime.As they came in, the king was saying to the queen, "Lady, do you knowwhere the naga girl has gone?""King, I do not.""Today when we were bathing in the tank, she quitted her shape andmisconducted herself with a water snake. I said, 'Don't do that,' andstruck her with a piece of bamboo to give her a lesson. And now I fear shemay have gone to the naga world and told some lie to my friend, destroyinghis goodwill to me."The young nagas hearing this turned back at once to the naga world andtold their king. He being moved went instantly to the king's chamber, toldhim all and was forgiven. Then he said, "In this way I make amends," andgave the king a charm giving knowledge of all sounds. "This, O king, is apriceless spell. If you give anyone this spell you will at once enter thefire and die."The king said, "It is well," and accepted it. From that time heunderstood the voice even of ants.One day he was sitting on the dais eating solid food with honey andmolasses, and a drop of honey, a drop of molasses, and a morsel of cakefell on the ground. An ant seeing this comes crying, "The king's honey jaris broken on the dais, his molasses cart and cake cart are upset. Come andeat honey and molasses and cake."The king hearing the cry laughed. The queen being near him thought,"What has the king seen that he laughs?"When the king had eaten his solid food and bathed and sat downcross legged, a fly said to his wife, "Come, lady, let us enjoy love."She said, "Excuse me for a little, husband. They will soon be bringingperfumes to the king. As he perfumes himself some powder will fall at hisfeet. I will stay there and become fragrant, then we will enjoy ourselveslying on the king's back."The king hearing the voice laughed again. The queen thought again,"What has he seen that he laughs?"Again when the king was eating his supper, a lump of rice fell on theground. The ants cried, "A wagon of rice has broken in the king's palace,and there is none to eat it."The king hearing this laughed again. The queen took a golden spoon andhelping him reflected, "Is it at the sight of me that the kinglaughs?"She went to the bedchamber with the king and at bedtime she asked, "Whydid you laugh, O king?"He said, "What have you to do with why I laugh?" But being asked againand again her told her.Then she said, "Give me your spell of knowledge."He said, "It cannot be given." But though repulsed she pressed himagain.The king said, "If I give you this spell, I shall die.""Even though you die, give it me."The king, being in the power of womankind, saying, "It is well,"consented and went to the park in a chariot, saying, "I shall enter thefire after giving away this spell."At that moment Sakka, king of gods, looked down on the earth and seeingthis case said, "This foolish king, knowing that he will enter the firethrough womankind, is on the way. I will give him his life." So he tookSuja, daughter of the Asuras, and went to Benares. He became a he goat andmade her a she goat, and resolving that the people should not see them, hestood before the king's chariot. The king and the Sindh asses yoked in thechariot saw him, but none else saw him. For the sake of starting talk hewas as if making love with the she goat.One of the Sindh asses yoked in the chariot seeing him said, "Friendgoat, we have heard before, but not seen, that goats are stupid andshameless. But you are doing, with all of us looking on, this thing thatshould be done in secret and in a private place, and are not ashamed. Whatwe have heard before agrees with this that we see."And so he spoke the first stanza:"Goats are stupid," says the wise man, and the words aresurely true:This one knows not he's parading what in secret he should do.The goat hearing him spoke two stanzas:O, sir donkey, think and realize your own stupidity,You're tied with ropes, your jaw is wrenched, and very downcast is youreye.When you're loosed, you don't escape, sir, that's a stupid habit too:And that Senaka you carry, he's more stupid still than you.The king understood the talk of both animals, and hearing it he quicklysent away the chariot. The ass hearing the goat's talk spoke the fourthstanza:Well. sir king of goats, you fully know my greatstupidity:But how Senaka is stupid, prithee do explain to me.The goat explaining this spoke the fifth stanza:He who his own special treasure on his wife will throwaway,Cannot keep her faithful ever and his life he must betray.The king hearing his words said, "King of goats, you will surelyact for my advantage. Tell me now what is right for me to do."Then the goat said, "King, to all animals no one is dearer than self.It is not good to destroy oneself and abandon the honor one has gained forthe sake of anything that is dear." So he spoke the sixth stanza:A king, like thee, may have conceived desireAnd yet renounced it if his life's the cost.Life is the chief thing. What can man seek higher?If life's secured, desires need ne'er be crossed.So the Bodhisatta exhorted the king. The king, delighted, asked, "Kingof goats, whence come you?""I am Sakka, O king, come to save you from death out of pity foryou.""King of gods, I promised to give her the charm. What am I to donow?""There is no need for the ruin of both of you. You say, 'It is the wayof the craft,' and have her beaten with some blows. By this means she willnot get it."The king said, "It is well," and agreed. The Bodhisatta afterexhortation to the king went to Sakka's heaven. The king went to thegarden, had the queen summoned and then said, "Lady, will you have thecharm?""Yes, lord.""Then go through the usual custom.""What custom?""A hundred stripes on the back, but you must not make a sound."She consented through greed for the charm. The king made his slavestake whips and beat her on both sides. She endured two or three stripesand then cried, "I don't want the charm."The king said, "You would have killed me to get the charm," and soflogging the skin off her back he sent her away. After that she could notbear to talk of it again.