Early one morning before people had gotten up, a man from Myrdal in theeast was walking past some cliffs when he came to the entrance to a cave.He could hear that there was merrymaking and dancing going on inside thehill, and outside he saw a large number of sealskins. He picked up one ofthem, took it home, and locked it in his trunk. Some time later, in thecourse of the day, he went back to the cave's entrance. A beautiful younggirl was sitting there. She was entirely naked and crying bitterly. Shewas the seal to whom the skin belonged that the man had taken. The mangave the girl some clothing, comforted her, and took her home withhim.Later she came to accept him, but never got along very well with otherpeople. She would often just sit there and look out to sea. After sometime the man took her as his wife. They lived well together and had manychildren.The peasant hid the skin, locking it securely in his trunk, and hecarried the key with him everywhere he went.Many years later he rowed out fishing and forgot the key at home underhis pillow. However, others say that the peasant went to a Christmasservice with his people, but that his wife had been sick and was unable togo with them. They say that he forgot to take the key out of the pocket ofhis everyday clothes when he changed. When he arrived home that eveningthe trunk was open, and his wife had disappeared with the skin. She hadfound the key, out of curiosity looked through the trunk, and found theskin.She could not resist the temptation. She said farewell to her children,put on the skin, and threw herself into the sea.Before the woman jumped into the sea, it is reported that she said:This I want, and yet I want it not,  Seven children have I at the bottom of the sea,Seven children have I as well here above.It is said that this touched the peasant's heart. After this, when herowed out fishing, a seal often swam around his boat, and it seemed thattears were running from its eyes. From this time on he was alwayssuccessful catching fish, and luck often came to his beach.People frequently saw this couple's children walking on the beach whilea seal swam along out in the sea accompanying them. It would throwcolorful fish and pretty shells to them.But the mother never again returned to land.