The story I'm going to tell you is not to be met every day. I heardlittle Tom Kennedy, the great schoolmaster of Rossard, say that he read itin the history of Ireland, and that it happened before the people wereChristian. It is about a king who had his hair cut only once a year. Helived in some old city on the borders of Carlow and Kilkenny, and his namewas a queer one: Lora Lonshach it was.So, as I said, he got his hair cut only once a year, and afterwardnothing more was ever heard of the barber who did it. This happened toabout seven unlucky fellows, and then no barber would come close thecastle for love or money. So the king proclaimed that all the barbers inthe country were to draw lots, and if the one who got the short strawwould dare to refuse, he would be put to death.The short straw was drawn by a poor widow's son named Thigueen. Fearingthat she would never again see her son, the mother ran to the castle andbeseeched the king to spare him the fate of the previous barbers."You'll get your boy back safe and sound," promised the king.The next day the frightened barber reported for duty."My good fellow," said the king, "you'll be at liberty to go whereveryou please after cutting my hair, but you must swear Dar lamh anRigh (by the king's hand) that you'll never tell anything that hasears and tongue what you see here today."The king sat down on his throne and took off his hood, revealing twobrown horse's ears, quite as long as those of an ass."Pick up your scissors and do your job!" he ordered.The poor lad did as best he could, taking special care not to nick theking's ears.When the job was finished, the king paid him, saying, "Now, my lad, ifI ever hear word of this, I'll make you wish that you had never beenborn."The boy returned to his mother, only to fall into bed, deathly ill. Sheasked him what ailed him, but he gave no answer.Two days later the doctor came."I have a secret," said poor Thigueen. If I cannot tell it, I'll die,and if I do tell it, I'll not be allowed to live."When the doctor heard that the secret was not to be told to anyone witha tongue or ears, he said, "Go into the woods, make a split in the bark ofone of the trees, tell your secret into the cut."The doctor was hardly out of the house when Thigueen got up and wentinto the woods, not stopping until he reached the middle, a place wheretwo paths crossed one another. At this spot he found a healthy tree, cut agash in its bark, and then whispered into it, "Da Chluais Chapail arLabhradh Loingseach," which means, "The two ears of a horse has LoraLonshach."The poor fellow had hardly whispered these words when he felt as if amountain had been lifted off his back.Before a year passed, when again it would be time for the king'shaircut, a great harp playing match was announced, a contest betweenCraftine, the king's harper, and anyone who dared play against him. Theother four kings of Ireland were invited, as well as all the lords andladies who chose to travel so far. One week before the appointed day,Craftine found a crack in his harp, so he went into the forest to look forwood for a new one.Where should bad luck send him but to the very tree that Thigueen hadtold his secret to! Craftine cut it down and fashioned it into the finestharp you have ever seen, and when he tried it, he himself was enchantedwith its beautiful music.The great day came at last, and the big hall in the palace was crammed.The king was on his high throne, with the four other kings before him. Oneither side were all the great lords and ladies, around the open place inthe center where the harpers were sitting.Craftine began. He first played so mournfully that all who heard himwere grief stricken. Then he played a merry jig, and because there was noroom to dance, everyone shouted out for joy. Next came a war like march,and everyone who had room drew his sword and waved it over his head, eachone crying out the war cry of his own chief or king. Finally he played abeautiful heavenly tune, and they all closed their eyes, hoping that thebeautiful music would never come to an end.When Craftine finally ceased playing, gold and silver were thrown inshowers to him. Then the harpers of Leinster, Munster, Connaught, andUlster tried their hands, and, sure enough, they played very well, but notnearly as well as Craftine.When they were finished, the king said to Craftine, "Give us one moretune to finish decently, and put all that we invited in good humor fortheir dinner.""I am afraid of my harp," answered Craftine. "It wasn't my fingers thatstruck out the music, but the music that stirred my fingers. There ismagic in that harp, and I fear it will play us some trick.""Trick be hanged!" said the king. "Play away!"The harper had to obey his king, and he took up his harp, but he hadhardly touched the strings, when a loud voice came from them, shouting,"Da Chluais Chapail ar Labhradh Loingseach!"The startled king put his hands to his head, not knowing what he wasdoing, and in his fumbling he loosened the bands of his hood, revealingthe two long hairy ears. What a roar came from the crowd! King Lora wasnot able to stand it, and in a trance he fell down from his throne. In afew minutes he had the hall to himself, except for his harper and some ofhis old servants.They say that when he came to himself, he was very sorry for all thepoor barbers that he had put out of the way, and that he pensioned theirwives and mothers. From then on Thigueen was no more concerned aboutgiving the king a haircut than he would have been about giving one to youor to me.