There was once in the world a poor man who had a wife and two children,the elder a girl, the younger a boy. The poor man went out one day plowingwith two wretched little oxen, his only property. his wife remained athome to do the cooking. The girl, being the older of the two children, wasoften sent out on short errands. upon the present occasion, too, she wasaway from the house, her mother having sent her out to borrow a peel, thedough for the bread being very nearly spoilt for having been kept too longin the trough.Availing herself of the girl's absence, the mother killed the poor littleboy and hid him in a pot of stewed cabbage. By the time that the girlreturned, her dear little brother was half stewed. When the mess was quitedone, the woman poured it into a smaller pot, placed the small pot into asling, and sent the food by her daughter to her husband who was in thefield.The man liked the dish very much, and asked the girl, "What kind of meatis this? It is very nice.""I believe, dear father, mother had to kill a small lamb last night, andno doubt she cooked it for you," replied the girl.But somehow or other the girl learned the true state of things, and thenews nearly broke her heart. She immediately went back to the field,gathered up the bones of her little brother, carefully wrapped them into abeautiful piece of new white linen and took them into the nearest forest,where she hid them in a hollow tree.Nobody can foretell what will happen, and so it came to pass that thebones did not remain very long in the hollow of the tree. Next spring acrow came and hatched them, and they became exactly such a boy as theywere before.The boy would sometimes perch on the edge of the hollow, andsing to a beautiful tune the following words:My mother killed me,My father ate me,My sister gathered up my bones,She wrapped them in clean white linen,She placed them in a hollow tree,And now, behold, I'm a young crow.Upon one occasion, just as he was singing this song, a man with a cloakstrolled by. "Go on, my son," he said, "repeat that pretty song for me! Ilive in a big village, and have traveled a good deal in my lifetime, but Ihave never heard such a pretty song."So the boy again commenced to sing:My mother killed me,My father ate me,My sister gathered up my bones,She wrapped them in clean white linen,She placed them in a hollow tree,And now, behold, I'm a young crow.The man with the cloak liked the song very much, and made the boy apresent of his cloak.Then a man with a crutch stick hobbled by. "Well, my boy," he said, "singme that song again. I live in a big village, have traveled far, but havenever heard such a pretty tune."And the boy again commenced to sing:My mother killed me,My father ate me,My sister gathered up my bones,She wrapped them in clean white linen,She placed them in a hollow tree,And now, behold, I'm a young crow.The man with the crutch stick, too, liked the song immensely, and gave theboy his crutch stick.The next one to pass was a miller. He also asked the boy to repeat thepretty tune, and as the boy complied with his request the miller presentedhim with a millstone.Then a sudden thought flashed across the boy's head,and he flew to his father's house, settled on the roof, and commenced tosing:My mother killed me,My father ate me,My sister gathered up my bones,She wrapped them in clean white linen,She placed them in a hollow tree,And now, behold, I'm a young crow.The woman was terrified, and said to her daughter, "Go and drive away thatbird, I don't like its croaking."The girl went out and tried to drive away the bird, but instead of flyingaway the young crow continued to sing the same song, and threw down thecloak to his sister. The girl was much pleased with the present, ran intothe house and exclaimed, "Look here what a nice present that ugly bird hasgiven to me!""Very nice indeed. very nice indeed. I will go out too," said her father.So he went out, and the bird threw down to him the crutch stick. The oldman was highly delighted with the gift. he was getting very weak, and thecrutch stick came in useful to him as a support. "Look here what a strongcrutch stick he has given to me ! It will be a great help to me in my oldage."Then his mother jumped up from behind the oven and said, "I must go outtoo. if presents won't shower at least a few might drivel to me."So she went out and looked up to the roof, and the boy gave her a presentfor which she had not bargained. He threw the millstone at her, whichkilled her on the spot.Thus far goes our tale. Here it ends.