A millet trader, traveling from village to village, came to a housewhere a woman was weeping and weeping. "I havebeen to the other world and back," he said, to emphasize the length anddifficulty of his journey. Then he added, "Why are you crying?""My daughter died six days ago," said the woman. "My Latti is now inthe other world. Did you meet her there?"The millet trader said, "Don't cry, mother. I did meet her there. Sheis now in the other world, and I am to marry thatvery Latti. In fact, I have come for Latti's necklaces and bracelets. Shesent me for them."The woman quickly arose and cooked an abundant meal for the trader."Mother," he said, "I must go immediately. Where is my father in law?""He is plowing," she said. "Wait until he comes.""I cannot," he said. "Our wedding feast is tomorrow. I must be off nowto go to the wedding."So the woman gave the trader her daughter's gold and silver necklacesand bracelets. These he took, along with hisbundles of millet, and went away.When the woman's husband returned from plowing, he found her laughing."What are you laughing at?" he asked.The woman replied, "Why shouldn't I laugh? Our son in law came.""What son in law?" the man asked.The woman said over and over again, "Latti's man came. Latti's mancame. Our son in law, to whom our daughter isgiven in the other world. It is true."The man asked, "Can anyone in the other world come to this world? Didyou cook for him and feed him?"The woman replied, "Of course I cooked for him and fed him! And he saidthat Latti had told him to fetch her necklacesand bracelets for her. So I gave them to him as well."Then the man said, "Where is our horse, and which way did the man go?"Mounting his horse he went to seek the millet trader.The trader, walking along in a rice field, looked back and saw a manapproaching on horseback. He said, "That man is coming to seize me."The trader climbed into a nearby tree. The man tied his horse to a rootof the tree and then climbed into the tree tocatch the trader. But the trader dropped from the end of a branch, cut thehorse's tether, placed his millet bundles and othergoods on the horse, mounted it, and rode off.The man descended slowly from the tree and called out to the fleeingtrader, "Tell Latti that your mother in law gaveyou a few things for her arms and neck, but that your father in law gaveyou a horse."Having returned home, he said to the woman, "It is true. He really isLatti's man. I gave him the horse, so he would not have to go on foot."The woman said, "Isn't it so indeed! I told you so."Then the millet trader returned to his own village, where heremained.