There was once an old peasant, and he must have had more brains underhis hair than ever I had, for he was a merchant, and used to takethings every year to sell at the big fair of Nijni Novgorod. Well, Icould never do that. I could never be anything better than an oldforester."Never mind, grandfather," said Maroosia.God knows best, and He makes some merchants and some foresters, andsome good and some bad, all in His own way. Anyhow this one was amerchant, and he had three daughters. They were none of them so bad tolook at, but one of them was as pretty as Maroosia. And she was thebest of them too. The others put all the hard work on her, while theydid nothing but look at themselves in the looking glass and complainof what they had to eat. They called the pretty one "Little Stupid,"because she was so good and did all their work for them. Oh, they werereal bad ones, those two. We wouldn't have them in here for a minute.Well, the time came round for the merchant to pack up and go to thebig fair. He called his daughters, and said, "Little pigeons," just asI say to you. "Little pigeons," says he, "what would you like me tobring you from the fair?"Says the eldest, "I'd like a necklace, but it must be a rich one."Says the second, "I want a new dress with gold hems."But the youngest, the good one, Little Stupid, said nothing at all."Now little one," says her father, "what is it you want? I must bringsomething for you too."Says the little one, "Could I have a silver saucer and a transparentapple? But never mind if there are none."The old merchant says, "Long hair, short sense," just as I say toMaroosia. but he promised the little pretty one, who was so good thather sisters called her stupid, that if he could get her a silversaucer and a transparent apple she should have them.Then they all kissed each other, and he cracked his whip, and off hewent, with the little bells jingling on the horses' harness.The three sisters waited till he came back. The two elder ones lookedin the looking glass, and thought how fine they would look in the newnecklace and the new dress. but the little pretty one took care of herold mother, and scrubbed and dusted and swept and cooked, and everyday the other two said that the soup was burnt or the bread notproperly baked.Then one day there were a jingling of bells and a clattering ofhorses' hoofs, and the old merchant came driving back from the fair.The sisters ran out."Where is the necklace?" asked the first."You haven't forgotten the dress?" asked the second.But the little one, Little Stupid, helped her old father off with hiscoat, and asked him if he was tired."Well, little one," says the old merchant, "and don't you want yourfairing too? I went from one end of the market to the other before Icould get what you wanted. I bought the silver saucer from an old Jew,and the transparent apple from a Finnish hag.""Oh, thank you, father," says the little one."And what will you do with them?" says he."I shall spin the apple in the saucer," says the little pretty one,and at that the old merchant burst out laughing."They don't call you 'Little Stupid' for nothing," says he.Well, they all had their fairings, and the two elder sisters, the badones, they ran off and put on the new dress and the new necklace, andcame out and strutted about, preening themselves like herons, now onone leg and now on the other, to see how they looked. But LittleStupid, she just sat herself down beside the stove, and took thetransparent apple and set it in the silver saucer, and she laughedsoftly to herself. And then she began spinning the apple in thesaucer.Round and round the apple spun in the saucer, faster and faster, tillyou couldn't see the apple at all, nothing but a mist like a littlewhirlpool in the silver saucer. And the little good one looked at it,and her eyes shone like yours.Her sisters laughed at her."Spinning an apple in a saucer and staring at it, the little stupid,"they said, as they strutted about the room, listening to the rustle ofthe new dress and fingering the bright round stones of the necklace.But the little pretty one did not mind them. She sat in the cornerwatching the spinning apple. And as it spun she talked to it."Spin, spin, apple in the silver saucer." This is what she said. "Spinso that I may see the world. Let me have a peep at the little fatherTzar on his high throne. Let me see the rivers and the ships and thegreat towns far away."And as she looked at the little glass whirlpool in the saucer, therewas the Tzar, the little father God preserve him! sitting on hishigh throne. Ships sailed on the seas, their white sails swelling inthe wind. There was Moscow with its white stone walls and paintedchurches. Why, there were the market at Nijni Novgorod, and the Arabmerchants with their camels, and the Chinese with their blue trousersand bamboo staves. And then there was the great river Volga, with menon the banks towing ships against the stream. Yes, and she saw asturgeon asleep in a deep pool."Oh! oh! oh!" says the little pretty one, as she saw all these things.And the bad ones, they saw how her eyes shone, and they came andlooked over her shoulder, and saw how all the world was there, in thespinning apple and the silver saucer. And the old father came andlooked over her shoulder too, and he saw the market at Nijni Novgorod."Why, there is the inn where I put up the horses," says he. "Youhaven't done so badly after all, Little Stupid."And the little pretty one, Little Stupid, went on staring into theglass whirlpool in the saucer, spinning the apple, and seeing all theworld she had never seen before, floating there before her in thesaucer, brighter than leaves in sunlight.The bad ones, the elder sisters, were sick with envy."Little Stupid," says the first, "if you will give me your silversaucer and your transparent apple, I will give you my fine newnecklace.""Little Stupid," says the second, "I will give you my new dress withgold hems if you will give me your transparent apple and your silversaucer.""Oh, I couldn't do that," says the Little Stupid, and she goes onspinning the apple in the saucer and seeing what was happening allover the world.So the bad ones put their wicked heads together and thought of a plan.And they took their father's axe, and went into the deep forest andhid it under a bush.The next day they waited till afternoon, when work was done, and thelittle pretty one was spinning her apple in the saucer. Then theysaid, "Come along, Little Stupid. we are all going to gather berries in theforest.""Do you really want me to come too?" says the little one. She wouldrather have played with her apple and saucer.But they said, "Why, of course. You don't think we can carry all theberries ourselves!"So the little one jumped up, and found the baskets, and went with themto the forest. But before she started she ran to her father, who wascounting his money, and was not too pleased to be interrupted, forfigures go quickly out of your head when you have a lot of them toremember. She asked him to take care of the silver saucer and thetransparent apple for fear she would lose them in the forest."Very well, little bird," says the old man, and he put the things in abox with a lock and key to it. He was a merchant, you know, and thatsort are always careful about things, and go clattering about with alot of keys at their belt. I've nothing to lock up, and never had, andperhaps it is just as well, for I could never be bothered with keys.So the little one picks up all three baskets and runs off after theothers, the bad ones, with black hearts under their necklaces and newdresses.They went deep into the forest, picking berries, and the little onepicked so fast that she soon had a basket full. She was picking andpicking, and did not see what the bad ones were doing. They werefetching the axe.The little one stood up to straighten her back, which ached after somuch stooping, and she saw her two sisters standing in front of her,looking at her cruelly. Their baskets lay on the ground quite empty.They had not picked a berry. The eldest had the axe in her hand.The little one was frightened."What is it, sisters?" says she. "and why do you look at me with crueleyes? And what is the axe for? You are not going to cut berries withan axe.""No, Little Stupid," says the first, "we are not going to cut berrieswith the axe.""No, Little Stupid," says the second. "the axe is here for somethingelse."The little one begged them not to frighten her.Says the first, "Give me your transparent apple."Says the second, "Give me your silver saucer.""If you don't give them up at once, we shall kill you." That is whatthe bad ones said.The poor little one begged them. "O darling sisters, do not kill me! Ihaven't got the saucer or the apple with me at all.""What a lie!" say the bad ones. "You never would leave it behind."And one caught her by the hair, and the other swung the axe, andbetween them they killed the little pretty one, who was called LittleStupid because she was so good.Then they looked for the saucer and the apple, and could not findthem. But it was too late now. So they made a hole in the ground, andburied the little one under a birch tree.When the sun went down the bad ones came home, and they wailed withfalse voices, and rubbed their eyes to make the tears come. They madetheir eyes red and their noses too, and they did not look any prettierfor that."What is the matter with you, little pigeons?" said the old merchantand his wife. I would not say "little pigeons" to such bad ones.Black hearted crows is what I would call them.And they wail and lament aloud, "We are miserable for ever. Our poor little sister is lost. We lookedfor her everywhere. We heard the wolves howling. They must have eatenher."The old mother and father cried like rivers in springtime, becausethey loved the little pretty one, who was called Little Stupid becauseshe was so good.But before their tears were dry the bad ones began to ask for thesilver saucer and the transparent apple."No, no," says the old man. "I shall keep them for ever, in memory ofmy poor little daughter whom God has taken away."So the bad ones did not gain by killing their little sister."That is one good thing," said Vanya."But is that all, grandfather?" said Maroosia."Wait a bit, little pigeons. Too much haste set his shoes on fire. Youlisten, and you will hear what happened," said old Peter. He took apinch of snuff from a little wooden box, and then he went on with histale.Time did not stop with the death of the little girl. Winter came, andthe snow with it. Everything was all white, just as it is now. And thewolves came to the doors of the huts, even into the villages, and noone stirred farther than he need. And then the snow melted, and thebuds broke on the trees, and the birds began singing, and the sunshone warmer every dry. The old people had almost forgotten the littlepretty one who lay dead in the forest. The bad ones had not forgotten,because now they had to do the work, and they did not like that atall.And then one day some lambs strayed away into the forest, and a youngshepherd went after them to bring them safely back to their mothers.And as he wandered this way and that through the forest, followingtheir light tracks, he came to a little birch tree, bright with newleaves, waving over a little mound of earth. And there was a reedgrowing in the mound, and that, you know as well as I, is a strangething, one reed all by itself under a birch tree in the forest. But itwas no stranger than the flowers, for there were flowers round it,some red as the sun at dawn and others blue as the summer sky.Well, the shepherd looks at the reed, and he looks at those flowers,and he thinks, "I've never seen anything like that before. I'll make awhistle pipe of that reed, and keep it for a memory till I grow old."So he did. He cut the reed, and sat himself down on the mound, andcarved away at the reed with his knife, and got the pith out of it bypushing a twig through it, and beating it gently till the barkswelled, made holes in it, and there was his whistle pipe. And then heput it to his lips to see what sort of music he could make on it. Butthat he never knew, for before his lips touched it the whistle pipebegan playing by itself and reciting in a girl's sweet voice. This iswhat it sang: "Play, play, whistle pipe. Bring happiness to my dear father and to mylittle mother. I was killed yes, my life was taken from me in thedeep forest for the sake of a silver saucer, for the sake of atransparent apple."When he heard that the shepherd went back quickly to the village toshow it to the people. And all the way the whistle pipe went onplaying and reciting, singing its little song. And everyone who heardit said, "What a strange song! But who is it who was killed?""I know nothing about it," says the shepherd, and he tells them aboutthe mound and the reed and the flowers, and how he cut the reed andmade the whistle pipe, and how the whistle pipe does its playing byitself.And as he was going through the village, with all the people crowdingabout him, the old merchant, that one who was the father of the twobad ones and of the little pretty one, came along and listened withthe rest. And when he heard the words about the silver saucer and thetransparent apple, he snatched the whistle pipe from the shepherd boy.And still it sang: "Play, play, whistle pipe! Bring happiness to my dear father and to mylittle mother. I was killed yes, my life was taken from me in thedeep forest for the sake of a silver saucer, for the sake of atransparent apple."And the old merchant remembered the little good one, and his tearstrickled over his cheeks and down his old beard. Old men love littlepigeons, you know. And he said to the shepherd, "Take me at once to the mound, where you say you cut the reed."The shepherd led the way, and the old man walked beside him, crying,while the whistle pipe in his hand went on singing and reciting itslittle song over and over again.They came to the mound under the birch tree, and there were theflowers, shining red and blue, and there in the middle of the moundwas the Stump of the reed which the shepherd had cut.The whistle pipe sang on and on.Well, there and then they dug up the mound, and there was the littlegirl lying under the dark earth as if she were asleep."O God of mine," says the old merchant, "this is my daughter, mylittle pretty one, whom we called Little Stupid." He began to weeploudly and wring his hands. but the whistle pipe, playing andreciting, changed its song. This is what it sang: "My sisters took me into the forest to look for the red berries. Inthe deep forest they killed poor me for the sake of a silver saucer,for the sake of a transparent apple. Wake me, dear father, from abitter dream, by fetching water from the well of the Tzar."How the people scowled at the two sisters! They scowled, they cursedthem for the bad ones they were. And the bad ones, the two sisters,wept, and fell on their knees, and confessed everything. They weretaken, and their hands were tied, and they were shut up in prison."Do not kill them," begged the old merchant, "for then I should haveno daughters at all, and when there are no fish in the river we makeshift with crays. Besides, let me go to the Tzar and beg water fromhis well. Perhaps my little daughter will wake up, as thewhistle pipe tells us."And the whistle pipe sang again: "Wake me, wake me, dear father, from a bitter dream, by fetching waterfrom the well of the Tzar. Till then, dear father, a blanket of blackearth and the shade of the green birch tree."So they covered the little girl with her blanket of earth, and theshepherd with his dogs watched the mound night and day. He begged forthe whistle pipe to keep him company, poor lad, and all the days andnights he thought of the sweet face of the little pretty one he hadseen there under the birch tree.The old merchant harnessed his horse, as if he were going to the town.and he drove off through the forest, along the roads, till he came tothe palace of the Tzar, the little father of all good Russians. Andthen he left his horse and cart and waited on the steps of the palace.The Tzar, the little father, with rings on his fingers and a goldcrown on his head, came out on the steps in the morning sunshine. andas for the old merchant, he fell on his knees and kissed the feet ofthe Tzar, and begged, "O little father, Tzar, give me leave to take water just a littledrop of water from your holy well.""And what will you do with it?" says the Tzar."I will wake my daughter from a bitter dream," says the old merchant."She was murdered by her sisters killed in the deep forest for thesake of a silver saucer, for the sake of a transparent apple.""A silver saucer?" says the Tzar "a transparent apple? Tell me aboutthat."And the old merchant told the Tzar everything, just as I have told itto you.And the Tzar, the little father, he gave the old merchant a glass ofwater from his holy well. "But," says he, "when your daughterkinwakes, bring her to me, and her sisters with her, and also the silversaucer and the transparent apple."The old man kissed the ground before the Tzar, and took the glass ofwater and drove home with it, and I can tell you he was careful not tospill a drop. He carried it all the way in one hand as he drove.He came to the forest and to the flowering mound under the littlebirch tree, and there was the shepherd watching with his dogs. The oldmerchant and the shepherd took away the blanket of black earth.Tenderly, tenderly the shepherd used his fingers, until the littlegirl, the pretty one, the good one, lay there as sweet as if she werenot dead.Then the merchant scattered the holy water from the glass over thelittle girl. And his daughterkin blushed as she lay there, and openedher eyes, and passed a hand across them, as if she were waking from adream. And then she leapt up, crying and laughing, and clung about herold father's neck. And there they stood, the two of them, laughing andcrying with joy. And the shepherd could not take his eyes from her,and in his eyes, too, there were tears.But the old father did not forget what he had promised the Tzar. Heset the little pretty one, who had been so good that her wickedsisters had called her Stupid, to sit beside him on the cart. And hebrought something from the house in a coffer of wood, and kept itunder his coat. And they brought out the two sisters, the bad ones,from their dark prison, and set them in the cart. And the LittleStupid kissed them and cried over them, and wanted to loose theirhands, but the old merchant would not let her. And they all drovetogether till they came to the palace of the Tzar. The shepherd boycould not take his eyes from the little pretty one, and he ran all theway behind the cart.Well, they came to the palace, and waited on the steps. and the Tzarcame out to take the morning air, and he saw the old merchant, and thetwo sisters with their hands tied, and the little pretty, one, aslovely as a spring day. And the Tzar saw her, and could not take hiseyes from her. He did not see the shepherd boy, who hid away among thecrowd.Says the great Tzar to his soldiers, pointing to the bad sisters,"These two are to be put to death at sunset. When the sun goes downtheir heads must come off, for they are not fit to see another day."Then he turns to the little pretty one, and he says: "Little sweetpigeon, where is your silver saucer, and where is your transparentapple?"The old merchant took the wooden box from under his coat, and openedit with a key at his belt, and gave it to the little one, and she tookout the silver saucer and the transparent apple and gave them to theTzar."O lord Tzar," says she, "O little father, spin the apple in thesaucer, and you will see whatever you wish to see your soldiers, yourhigh hills, your forests, your plains, your rivers, and Everything inall Russia."And the Tzar, the little father, spun the apple in the saucer till itseemed a little whirlpool of white mist, and there he saw glitteringtowns, and regiments of soldiers marching to war, and ships, and dayand night, and the clear stars above the trees. He looked at thesethings and thought much of them.Then the little good one threw herself on her knees before him,weeping."O little father, Tzar," she says, "take my transparent apple and mysilver saucer. only forgive my sisters. Do not kill them because ofme. If their heads are cut off when the sun goes down, it would havebeen better for me to lie under the blanket of black earth in theshade of the birch tree in the forest."The Tzar was pleased with the kind heart of the little pretty one, andhe forgave the bad ones, and their hands were untied, and the littlepretty one kissed them, and they kissed her again and said they weresorry.The old merchant looked up at the sun, and saw how the time was going."Well, well," says he, "it's time we were getting ready to go home."They all fell on their knees before the Tzar and thanked him. But theTzar could not take his eyes from the little pretty one, and would notlet her go."Little sweet pigeon," says he, "will you be my Tzaritza, and a kindmother to Holy Russia?"And the little good one did not know what to say. She blushed andanswered, very rightly, "As my father orders, and as my little motherwishes, so shall it be."The Tzar was pleased with her answer, and he sent a messenger on agalloping horse to ask leave from the little pretty one's old mother.And of course the old mother said that she was more than willing. Sothat was all right. Then there was a wedding such a wedding! andevery city in Russia sent a silver plate of bread, and a goldensalt cellar, with their good wishes to the Tzar and Tzaritza.Only the shepherd boy, when he heard that the little pretty one was tomarry the Tzar, turned sadly away and went off into the forest."Are you happy, little sweet pigeon?" says the Tzar."Oh yes," says the Little Stupid, who was now Tzaritza and mother ofHoly Russia. "but there is one thing that would make me happier.""And what is that?" says the lord Tzar."I cannot bear to lose my old father and my little mother and my dearsisters. Let them be with me here in the palace, as they were in myfather's house."The Tzar laughed at the little pretty one, but he agreed, and thelittle pretty one ran to tell them the good news. She said to hersisters, "Let all be forgotten, and all be forgiven, and may the evileye fall on the one who first speaks of what has been!"For a long time the Tzar lived, and the little pretty one theTzaritza, and they had many children, and were very happy together.And ever since then the Tzars of Russia have kept the silver saucerand the transparent apple, so that, whenever they wish, they can seeeverything that is going on all over Russia. Perhaps even now theTzar, the little father God preserve him! is spinning the apple inthe saucer, and looking at us, and thinking it is time that two littlepigeons were in bed."Is that the end?" said Vanya."That is the end," said old Peter."Poor shepherd boy!" said Maroosia."I don't know about that," said old Peter. "You see, if he had marriedthe little pretty one, and had to have all the family to live withhim, he would have had them in a hut like ours instead of in a greatpalace, and so he would never have had room to get away from them. Andnow, little pigeons, who is going to be first into bed?"