Once upon a time there was a Porter in Baghdad, who was abachelor and who would remain unmarried. It came to pass on acertain day, as he stood about the street leaning idly upon hiscrate, behold, there stood before him an honourable woman in amantilla of Mosul silk, broidered with gold and borderedwith brocade. her walking shoes were also purfled with gold andher hair floated in long plaits. She raised her face veiland, showing two black eyes fringed with jetty lashes, whoseglances were soft and languishing and whose perfect beauty wasever blandishing, she accosted the Porter and said in the suavesttones and choicest language, "Take up thy crate and follow me."The Porter was so dazzled he could hardly believe that he heardher aright, but he shouldered his basket in hot haste saying inhimself, "O day of good luck! O day of Allah's grace!" and walkedafter her till she stopped at the door of a house. There sherapped, and presently came out to her an old man, a Nazarene, towhom she gave a gold piece, receiving from him in return what sherequired of strained wine clear as olive oil. and she set itsafely in the hamper, saying "Lift and follow." Quoth the Porter,"This, by Allah, is indeed an auspicious day, a day propitiousfor the granting of all a man wisheth." He again hoisted up thecrate and followed her. till she stopped at a fruiterer's shopand bought from him Shami apples and Osmani quinces andOmani peaches, and cucumbers of Nile growth, and Egyptianlimes and Sultani oranges and citrons. besides Aleppine jasmine,scented myrtle berries, Damascene nenuphars, flower ofprivet and camomile, blood red anemones, violets, andpomegranate bloom, eglantine and narcissus, and set the whole inthe Porter's crate, saying, "Up with it." So he lifted andfollowed her till she stopped at a butcher's booth and said, "Cutme off ten pounds of mutton." She paid him his price and hewrapped it in a banana leaf, whereupon she laid it in the crateand said "Hoist, O Porter." He hoisted accordingly, and followedher as she walked on till she stopped at a grocer's, where shebought dry fruits and pistachio kernels, Tihamah raisins, shelledalmonds and all wanted for dessert, and said to the Porter, "Liftand follow me." So he up with his hamper and after her till shestayed at the confectioner's, and she bought an earthen platter,and piled it with all kinds of sweetmeats in his shop, openworked tarts and fritters scented with musk and "soap cakes," andlemon loaves and melon preserves, and "Zaynab's combs,"and "ladies' fingers," and "Kazi's tit bits" and goodies of everydescription. and placed the platter in the Porter's crate.Thereupon quoth he (being a merry man), "Thou shouldest have toldme, and I would have brought with me a pony or a she camel tocarry all this market stuff." She smiled and gave him a littlecuff on the nape saying, "Step out and exceed not in words for(Allah willing!) thy wage will not be wanting." Then she stoppedat a perfumer's and took from him ten sorts of waters, rosescented with musk, grange Lower, waterlily, willow flower, violetand five others. and she also bought two loaves of sugar, abottle for perfume spraying, a lump of male in cense, aloe wood,ambergris and musk, with candles of Alex' andria wax. and she putthe whole into the basket, saying, "Up with thy crate and afterme." He did so and followed until she stood before thegreengrocer's, of whom she bought pickled safflower and olives,in brine and in oil. with tarragon and cream cheese and hardSyrian cheese. and she stowed them away in the crate saying tothe Porter, "Take up thy basket and follow me." He did so andwent after her till she came to a fair mansion fronted by aspacious court, a tall, fine place to which columns gave strengthand grace: and the gate thereof had two leaves of ebony inlaidwith plates of red gold. The lady stopped at the door and,turning her face veil sideways, knocked softly with her knuckleswhilst the Porter stood behind her, thinking of naught save herbeauty and loveliness. Presently the door swung back and bothleaves were opened, whereupon he looked to see who had opened it.and behold, it was a lady of tall figure, some five feet high. amodel of beauty and loveliness, brilliance and symmetry andperfect grace. Her forehead was flower white. her cheeks like theanemone ruddy bright. her eyes were those of the wild heifer orthe gazelle, with eyebrows like the crescent moon which endsSha'aban and begins Ramazan. her mouth was the ring ofSulayman, her lips coral red, and her teeth like a lineof strung pearls or of camomile petals. Her throat recalled theantelope's, and her breasts, like two pomegranates of even size,stood at bay as it were, her body rose and fell in wavesbelow her dress like the rolls of a piece of brocade, and hernavel would hold an ounce of benzoin ointment. In fineshe was like her of whom the poet said: On Sun and Moon of palace cast thy sight Enjoy her flower likeface, her fragrant light:Thine eyes shall never see in hair so black Beauty encase abrow so purely white:The ruddy rosy cheek proclaims her claim Though fail her namewhose beauties we indite:As sways her gait I smile at hips so big And weep to see thewaist they bear so slight.When the Porter looked upon her his wits were waylaid, and hissenses were stormed so that his crate went nigh to fall from hishead, and he said to himself, "Never have I in my life seen a daymore blessed than this day!" Then quoth the lady portress to thelady cateress, "Come in from the gate and relieve this poor manof his load." So the provisioner went in followed by the portressand the Porter and went on till they reached a spacious groundfloor hall, built with admirable skill and beautifiedwith all manner colours and carvings. with upper balconies andgroined arches and galleries and cupboards and recesses whosecurtains hung before them. In the midst stood a great basin fullof water surrounding a fine fountain, and at the upper end on theraised dais was a couch of juniper wood set with gems and pearls,with a canopy like mosquito curtains of red satin silk looped upwith pearls as big as filberts and bigger. Thereupon sat a ladybright of blee, with brow beaming brilliancy, the dream ofphilosophy, whose eyes were fraught with Babel's gramaryeand her eye brows were arched as for archery. her breath breathedambergris and perfumery and her lips were sugar to taste andcarnelian to see. Her stature was straight as the letterI and her face shamed the noon sun's radiancy. and shewas even as a galaxy, or a dome with golden marquetry or a bridedisplayed in choicest finery or a noble maid of Araby.Right well of her sang the bard when he said: Her smiles twin rows of pearls display Chamomile buds or rimeysprayHer tresses stray as night let down And shames her light thedawn o' day.The third lady rising from the couch stepped forward withgrace ful swaying gait till she reached the middle of the saloon,when she said to her sisters, "Why stand ye here? take it downfrom this poor man's head!" Then the cateress went and stoodbefore him, and the portress behind him while the third helpedthem, and they lifted the load from the Porter's head. and,emptying it of all that was therein, set everything in its place.Lastly they gave him two gold pieces, saying, "Wend thy ways, OPorter." But he went not, for he stood looking at the ladies andadmiring what uncommon beauty was theirs, and their pleasantmanners and kindly dispositions (never had he seen goodlier). andhe gazed wistfully at that good store of wines and sweet scentedflowers and fruits and other matters. Also he marvelled withexceeding marvel, especially to see no man in the place anddelayed his going. whereupon quoth the eldest lady, "What aileththee that goest not. haply thy wage be too little?" And, turningto her sister the cateress, she said, "Give him another diner!"But the Porter answered, "By Allah, my lady, it is not for thewage. my hire is never more than two dirhams. but in very soothmy heart and my soul are taken up with you and your condition. Iwonder to see you single with ne'er a man about you and not asoul to bear you company. and well you wot that the minarettoppleth o'er unless it stand upon four, and you want this samefourth. and women's pleasure without man is short of measure,even as the poet said: Seest not we want for joy four things all told The harp andlute, the flute and flageolet.And be they companied with scents four fold Rose, myrtle,anemone and violetNor please all eight an four thou wouldst withold Good wine andyouth and gold and pretty pet.You be there and want a fourth who shall be a person of goodsense and prudence. smart witted, and one apt to keep carefulcounsel." His words pleased and amused them much. and theylaughed at him and said, "And who is to assure us of that? We aremaidens and we fear to entrust our secret where it may not bekept, for we have read in a certain chronicle the lines of oneIbn al Sumam: Hold fast thy secret and to none unfold Lost is a secret whenthat secret's toldAn fail thy breast thy secret to conceal How canst thou hopeanother's breast shall hold?And Abu Nowas said well on the same subject: Who trusteth secret to another's hand Upon his brow deservethburn of brand!"When the Porter heard their words he rejoined, "By your lives! Iam a man of sense and a discreet, who hath read books and perusedchronicles. I reveal the fair and conceal the foul and I act asthe poet adviseth: None but the good a secret keep And good men keep itunrevealed:It is to me a well shut house With keyless locks and doorensealed"When the maidens heard his verse and its poetical applicationaddressed to them they said, "Thou knowest that we have laid outall our monies on this place. Now say, hast thou aught to offerus in return for entertainment? For surely we will not suf ferthee to sit in our company and be our cup companion, and gazeupon our faces so fair and so rare without paying a roundsum. Wottest thou not the saying: Sans hope of gainLove's not worth a grain?"Whereto the lady portress added, "If thou bring anything thou arta something. if no thing, be off with thee, thou art a nothing."but the procuratrix interposed, saying, "Nay, O my sisters, leaveteasing him for by Allah he hath not failed us this day, and hadhe been other he never had kept patience with me, so whatever behis shot and scot I will take it upon myself." The Porter, overjoyed, kissed the ground before her and thanked her saying, "ByAllah, these monies are the first fruits this day hath given me."Hearing this they said, "Sit thee down and welcome to thee," andthe eldest lady added, "By Allah, we may not suffer thee to joinus save on one condition, and this it is, that no questions beasked as to what concerneth thee not, and frowardness shall besoundly flogged." Answered the Porter, "I agree to this, O mylady, on my head and my eyes be it! Lookye, I am dumb, I have notongue. Then arose the provisioneress and tightening her girdleset the table by the fountain and put the flowers and sweet herbsin their jars, and strained the wine and ranged the flasks in rowand made ready every requisite. Then sat she down, she and hersisters, placing amidst them the Porter who kept deeming himselfin a dream. and she took up the wine flagon, and poured out thefirst cup and drank it off, and likewise a second and athird. After this she filled a fourth cup which shehanded to one of her sisters. and, lastly, she crowned a gobletand passed it to the Porter, saying: "Drink the dear draught, drink free and fain What healeth everygrief and pain."He took the cup in his hand and, louting low, returned his bestthanks and improvised: Drain not the bowl save with a trusty friend A man of worthwhose good oldFor wine, like wind, sucks sweetness from the sweet And stinkswhen over stench it haply blow:"Adding: Drain not the bowl. save from dear hand like thine The cuprecall thy gifts. thou, gifts of wine."After repeating this couplet he kissed their hands and drank andwas drunk and sat swaying from side to side and pursued: "All drinks wherein is blood the Law unclean Doth hold saveone, the blood shed of the vine:Fill! fill! take all my wealth bequeathed or won Thou fawn! awilling ransom for those eyne."Then the cateress crowned a cup and gave it to the portress, whotook it from her hand and thanked her and drank. Thereupon shepoured again and passed to the eldest lady who sat on the couch,and filled yet another and handed it to the Porter. He kissed theground before them. and, after drinking and thanking them, heagain began to recite :"Here! Here! by Allah, here! Cups of the sweet, the dear'Fill me a brimming bowl The Fount o' Life I speerThen the Porter stood up before the mistress of the house andsaid, "O lady, I am thy slave, thy Mameluke, thy white thrall, a,thy very bondsman." and he began reciting: "A slave of slaves there standeth at thy door Lauding thygenerous boons and gifts galoreBeauty! may he come in awhile to 'joy Thy charms? for Loveand I part nevermore!"She said to him, "Drink. and health and happiness attend thydrink." So he took the cup and kissed her hand and recited theselines in sing song:"I gave her brave old wine that like her cheeks Blushed red orflame from furnace flaring up:She bussed the brim and said with many a smile How durst thoudeal folk's cheek for folk to sup?"Drink!" (said I) "these are tears of mine whose tinct Is heartblood sighs have boiled in the cup."She answered him in the following couplet: "An tears of blood for me, friend, thou hast shed Suffer me supthem, by thy head and eyes!"Then the lady took the cup, and drank it off to her sisters'health, and they ceased not drinking (the Porter being in themidst of them), and dancing and laughing and reciting verses andsinging ballads and ritornellos. All this time the Porter wascarrying on with them, kissing, toying, biting, handling,groping, fingering. whilst one thrust a dainty morsel in hismouth, and another slapped him. and this cuffed his cheeks, andthat threw sweet flowers at him. and he was in the very paradiseof pleasure, as though he were sitting in the seventh sphereamong the Houris of Heaven. They ceased not doing afterthis fashion until the wine played tucks in their heads andworsted their wits. and, when the drink got the better of them,the portress stood up and doffed her clothes till she was mothernaked. However, she let down her hair about her body by way ofshift, and throwing herself into the basin disported herself anddived like a duck and swam up and down, and took water in hermouth, and spurted it all over the Porter, and washed her limbs,and between her breasts, and inside her thighs and all around hernavel. Then she came up out of the cistern and throwing herselfon the Porter's lap said, "O my lord, O my love, what callestthou this article?" pointing to her slit, her solution ofcontinuity. "I call that thy cleft," quoth the Porter, and sherejoined, Wah! wah, art thou not ashamed to use such a word?" andshe caught him by the collar and soundly cuffed him. Said heagain, Thy womb, thy vulva." and she struck him a second slapcrying, "O fie, O fie, this is another ugly word. is here noshame in thee?" Quoth he, "Thy coynte." and she cried, O thou!art wholly destitute of modesty?" and thumped and bashed him.Then cried the Porter, "Thy clitoris," whereat the eldestlady came down upon him with a yet sorer beating, and said, "No."and he said, " 'Tis so," and the Porter went on calling the samecommodity by sundry other names, but whatever he said they beathim more and more till his neck ached and swelled with the blowshe had gotten. and on this wise they made him a butt and alaughing stock. At last he turned upon them asking, And what doyou women call this article?" Whereto the damsel made answer,"The basil of the bridges." Cried the Porter, "ThankAllah for my safety: aid me and be thou propitious, O basil ofthe bridges!" They passed round the cup and tossed off the bowlagain, when the second lady stood up. and, stripping off all herclothes, cast herself into the cistern and did as the first haddone. then she came out of the water and throwing her naked formon the Porter's lap pointed to her machine and said, "O light ofmine eyes, do tell me what is the name of this concern?" Hereplied as before, "Thy slit." and she rejoined, "Hath such termno shame for thee?" and cuffed him and buffeted him till thesaloon rang with the blows. Then quoth she, "O fie! O fie! howcanst thou say this without blushing?" He suggested, "The basilof the bridges." but she would not have it and she said, "No!no!" and stuck him and slapped him on the back of the neck. Thenhe began calling out all the names he knew, "Thy slit, thy womb,thy coynte, thy clitoris." and the girls kept on saying, "No!no!" So he said, "I stick to the basil of the bridges." and allthe three laughed till they fell on their backs and laid slaps onhis neck and said, "No! no! that's not its proper name."Thereupon he cried, "O my sisters, what is its name?" and theyreplied, "What sayest thou to the husked sesame seed?" Then thecateress donned her clothes and they fell again to carousing, butthe Porter kept moaning, "Oh! and Oh!" for his neck andshoulders, and the cup passed merrily round and round again for afull hour. After that time the eldest and handsomest lady stoodup and stripped off her garments, whereupon the Porter took hisneck in hand, and rubbed and shampoo'd it, saying, "My neck andshoulders are on the way of Allah!" Then she threwherself into the basin, and swam and dived, sported and washed.and the Porter looked at her naked figure as though she had beena slice of the moon and at her face with the sheen ofLuna when at full, or like the dawn when it brighteneth, and henoted her noble stature and shape, and those glorious forms thatquivered as she went. for she was naked as the Lord made her.Then he cried "Alack! Alack!"and began to address her, versifyingin these couplets: "If I liken thy shape to the bough when green My likeness errsand I sore mistake it.For the bough is fairest when clad the most And thou artfairest when mother naked."When the lady heard his verses she came up out of the basin and,seating herself upon his lap and knees, pointed to her genitoryand said, "O my lordling, what be the name of this?" Quoth he,"The basil of the bridges." but she said, "Bah, bah!" Quoth he,"The husked sesame." quoth she, "Pooh, pooh!" Then said he, "Thywomb." and she cried, "Fie, Fie! art thou not ashamed ofthyself?" and cuffed him on the nape of the neck. And whatevername he gave declaring " 'Tis so," she beat him and cried "No!no!" till at last he said, "O my sisters, and what is its name?"She replied, "It is entitled the Khan of Abu Mansur."whereupon the Porter replied, "Ha! ha! O Allah be praised forsafe deliverance! O Khan of Abu Mansur!" Then she came forth anddressed and the cup went round a full hour. At last the Porterrose up, and stripping off all his clothes, jumped into the tankand swam about and washed under his bearded chin and armpits,even as they had done. Then he came out and threw himself intothe first lady's lap and rested his arms upon the lap of theportress, and reposed his legs in the lap of the cateress andpointed to his prickle and said, "O my mistresses, whatis the name of this article?" All laughed at his words till theyfell on their backs, and one said, "Thy pintle!" But he replied,"No!" and gave each one of them a bite by way of forfeit. Thensaid they, "Thy pizzle!" but he cried "No," and gave each of thema hug. And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased sayingher permitted say.When it was the Tenth Night,Quoth her sister Dunyazad, "Finish for us thy story." and sheanswered, "With joy and goodly greet" It hath reached me, Oauspicious King, that the damsels stinted not saying to thePorter "Thy prickle, thy pintle, thy pizzle," and he ceased notkissing and biting and hugging until his heart was satisfied, andthey laughed on till they could no more. At last one said, "O ourbrother, what, then, is it called?" Quoth he, "Know ye not?"Quoth they, "No!" "Its veritable name," said he, "is mule Burstall, which browseth on the basil of the bridges, and muncheth thehusked sesame, and nighteth in the Khan of Abu Mansur." Thenlaughed they till they fell on their backs, and returned to theircarousel, and ceased not to be after this fashion till nightbegan to fall. Thereupon said they to the Porter,''Bismillah, O our master, up and on with those sorry oldshoes of thine and turn thy face and show us the breadth of thyshoulders!" Said he, "By Allah, to part with my soul would beeasier for me than departing from you: come let us join night today, and tomorrow morning we will each wend our own way." "Mylife on you," said the procuratrix, "suffer him to tarry with us,that we may laugh at him: we may live out our lives and nevermeet with his like, for surely he is a right merry rogue and awitty." So they said, "Thou must not remain with us thisnight save on condition that thou submit to our commands, andthat whatso thou seest, thou ask no questions there anent, norenquire of its cause." "All right," rejoined he, and they said,"Go read the writing over the door." So he rose and went to theentrance and there found written in letters of gold wash. WHOSOSPEAKETH OF WHAT CONCERNETH HIM NOT, SHALL HEAR WHAT PLEASETH HIMNOT! The Porter said, Be ye witnesses against me that Iwill not speak on whatso concerneth me not." Then the cateressarose, and set food before them and they ate. after which theychanged their drinking place for an other, and she lighted thelamps and candles and burned amber gris and aloes wood, and seton fresh fruit and the wine service, when they fell to carousingand talking of their lovers. And they ceased not to eat and drinkand chat, nibbling dry fruits and laughing and playing tricks forthe space of a full hour when lo! a knock was heard at the gate.The knocking in no wise dis turbed the seance, but one of themrose and went to see what it was and presently returned, saying,"Truly our pleasure for this night is to be perfect." "How isthat?" asked they. and she answered, "At the gate be threePersian Kalandars with their beards and heads andeyebrows shaven. and all three blind of the left eye which issurely a strange chance. They are foreigners from Roum land withthe mark of travel plain upon them. they have just enteredBaghdad, this being their first visit to our city. and the causeof their knocking at our door is simply because they cannot finda lodging. Indeed one of them said to me: Haply the owner ofthis mansion will let us have the key of his stable or some oldout house wherein we may pass this night. for evening hadsurprised them and, being strangers in the land, they knew nonewho would give them shelter. And, O my sisters, each of them is afigure o' fun after his own fashion. and if we let them in weshall have matter to make sport of." She gave not over persuadingthem till they said to her, "Let them in, and make thou the usualcondition with them that they speak not of what concerneth themnot, lest they hear what pleaseth them not." So she rejoiced andgoing to the door presently returned with the three monocularswhose beards and mustachios were clean shaven. Theysalam'd and stood afar off by way of respect. but the threeladies rose up to them and welcomed them and wished them joy oftheir safe arrival and made them sit down. The Kalandars lookedat the room and saw that it was a pleasant place, clean swept andgarnished with cowers. and the lamps were burning and the smokeof perfumes was spireing in air. and beside the dessert andfruits and wine, there were three fair girls who might bemaidens. so they exclaimed with one voice, "By Allah, 'tis good!"Then they turned to the Porter and saw that he was a merry facedwight, albeit he was by no means sober and was sore after hisslappings. So they thought that he was one of themselves andsaid, "A mendicant like us! whether Arab or foreigner."But when the Porter heard these words, he rose up, and fixing hiseyes fiercely upon them, said, "Sit ye here without exceeding intalk! Have you not read what is writ over the door? surely itbefitteth not fellows who come to us like paupers to wag yourtongues at us." "We crave thy pardon, O Fakir," rejoinedthey, "and our heads are between thy hands." The ladies laughedconsumedly at the squabble. and, making peace between theKalandars and the Porter, seated the new guests before meat andthey ate. Then they sat together, and the portress served themwith drink. and, as the cup went round merrily, quoth the Porterto the askers, "And you, O brothers mine, have ye no story orrare adventure to amuse us withal?" Now the warmth of wine havingmounted to their heads they called for musical instruments. andthe portress brought them a tambourine of Mosul, and a lute ofIrak, and a Persian harp. and each mendicant took one and tunedit. this the tambourine and those the lute and the harp, andstruck up a merry tune while the ladies sang so lustily thatthere was a great noise. And whilst they were carryingon, behold, some one knocked at the gate, and the portress wentto see what was the matter there. Now the cause of that knocking,O King (quoth Shahrazad) was this, the Caliph, Harun al Rashid,had gone forth from the palace, as was his wont now and then, tosolace himself in the city that night, and to see and hear whatnew thing was stirring. he was in merchant's gear, and he wasattended by Ja'afar, his Wazir, and by Masrur his Sworder ofVengeance. As they walked about the city, their way ledthem towards the house of the three ladies. where they heard theloud noise of musical instruments and singing and merriment. soquoth the Caliph to Ja'afar, "I long to enter this house and hearthose songs and see who sing them." Quoth Ja'afar, "O Prince ofthe Faithful. these folk are surely drunken with wine, and I fearsome mischief betide us if we get amongst them." "There is nohelp but that I go in there," replied the Caliph, "and I desirethee to contrive some pretext for our appearing among them."Ja'afar replied, "I hear and I obey." and knocked at thedoor, whereupon the portress came out and opened. Then Ja'afarcame forward and kissing the ground before her said, "O my lady,we be merchants from Tiberias town: we arrived at Baghdad tendays ago. and, alighting at the merchants' caravanserai, we soldall our merchandise. Now a certain trader invited us to anentertainment this night. so we went to his house and he set foodbefore us and we ate: then we sat at wine and wassail with himfor an hour or so when he gave us leave to depart. and we wentout from him in the shadow of the night and, being strangers, wecould not find our way back to our Khan. So haply of yourkindness and courtesy you will suffer us to tarry with you thisnight, and Heaven will reward you!" The portress lookedupon them and seeing them dressed like merchants and men of gravelooks and solid, she returned to her sisters and repeated to themJa'afar's story. and they took compassion upon the strangers andsaid to her, "Let them enter." She opened the door to them, whensaid they to her, "Have we thy leave to come in?" "Come in,"quoth she. and the Caliph entered followed by Ja'afar and Masrur.and when the girls saw them they stood up to them in respect andmade them sit down and looked to their wants, saying, "Welcome,and well come and good cheer to the guests, but with onecondition!" "What is that?" asked they, and one of the ladiesanswered, "Speak not of what concerneth you not, lest ye hearwhat pleaseth you not." "Even so," said they. and sat down totheir wine and drank deep. Presently the Caliph looked on thethree Kalandars and, seeing them each and every blind of the lefteye, wondered at the sight. then he gazed upon the girls and hewas startled and he marvelled with exceeding marvel at theirbeauty and loveliness. They continued to carouse and to converseand said to the Caliph, "Drink!" but he replied, "I am vowed toPilgrimage." and drew back from the wine. Thereupon theportress rose and spreading before him a table cloth worked withgold, set thereon a porcelain bowl into which she poured willowflower water with a lump of snow and a spoonful of sugar candy.The Caliph thanked her and said in himself,"By Allah, I willrecompense her to morrow for the kind deed she hath done." Theothers again addressed themselves to conversing and carousing.and, when the wine gat the better of them, the eldest lady whoruled the house rose and making obeisance to them took thecateress by the hand, and said, "Rise, O my sister and let us dowhat is our devoir." Both answered "Even so!" Then the portressstood up and proceeded to remove the table service and theremnants of the banquet. and renewed the pastiles and cleared themiddle of the saloon. Then she made the Kalandars sit upon a sofaat the side of the estrade, and seated the Caliph and Ja'afar andMasrur on the other side of the saloon. after which she calledthe Porter, and said, "How scanty is thy courtesy! now thou artno stranger. nay, thou art one of the household." So he stood upand, tightening his waist cloth, asked, "What would ye I do?" andshe answered, "Stand in thy place." Then the procuratrix rose andset in the midst of the saloon a low chair and, opening a closet,cried to the Porter, "Come help me." So he went to help her andsaw two black bitches with chains round their necks. and she saidto him, "Take hold of them." and he took them and led them intothe middle of the saloon. Then the lady of the house arose andtucked up her sleeves above her wrists and, seizing a scourge,said to the Porter, "Bring forward one of the bitches." Hebrought her forward, dragging her by the chain, while the bitchwept, and shook her head at the lady who, however, came down uponher with blows on the sconce. and the bitch howled and the ladyceased not beating her till her forearm failed her. Then, castingthe scourge from her hand, she pressed the bitch to her bosomand, wiping away her tears with her hands, kissed her head. Thenshe said to the Porter, "Take her away and bring the second."and, when he brought her, she did with her as she had done withthe first. Now the heart of the Caliph, was touched at thesecruel doings. his chest straitened and he lost all patience inhis desire to know why the two bitches were so beaten. He threw awink at Ja'afar wishing him to ask, but. the Minister turningtowards him said by signs, "Be silent!" Then quoth the portressto the mistress of the house, "O my lady, arise and go to thyplace that I in turn may do my devoir." She answered,"Even so". and, taking her seat upon the couch of juniper wood,pargetted with gold and silver, said to the portress andcateress, "Now do ye what ye have to do." Thereupon the portresssat upon a low seat by the couch side. but the procuretrix,entering a closet, brought out of it a bag of satin with greenfringes and two tassels of gold. She stood up before the lady ofthe house and shaking the bag drew out from it a lute which shetuned by tightening its pegs. and when it was in perfect order,she began to sing these quatrains: "Ye are the wish, the aim of me And when, O Love, thy sight IseeThe heavenly mansion openeth. But Hell I see whenlost thy sight.From thee comes madness. nor the less Comes highest joy,comes ecstasy:Nor in my love for thee I fear Or shame and blame, or hate andspite.When Love was throned within my heart I rent the veil ofmodesty.And stints not Love to rend that veil Garring disgrace on graceto alight.The robe of sickness then I donned But rent to rags wassecrecy:Wherefore my love and longing heart Proclaim your highsupremest might.The tear drop railing adown my cheek Telleth my tale ofignomy:And all the hid was seen by all And all my riddle ree'd aright.Heal then my malady, for thou Art malady and remedy!But she whose cure is in thy hand Shall ne'er be free of baneand blight.Burn me those eyne that radiance rain Slay me the swords ofphantasy.How many hath the sword of Love Laid low, their high degreedespite?Yet will I never cease to pine Nor to oblivion will I flee.Love is my health, my faith, my joy Public and private, wrongor right.O happy eyes that sight thy charms That gaze upon thee at theirgree!Yea, of my purest wish and will The slave of Love I'll aye behight."When the damsel heard this elegy in quatrains she cried out"Alas! Alas!" and rent her raiment, and fell to the groundfainting. and the Caliph saw scars of the palm rod on herback and welts of the whip. and marvelled with exceeding wonder.Then the portress arose and sprinkled water on her and broughther a fresh and very fine dress and put it on her. But when thecompany beheld these doings their minds were troubled, for theyhad no inkling of the case nor knew the story thereof. so theCaliph said to Ja'afar, "Didst thou not see the scars upon thedamsel's body? I cannot keep silence or be at rest till I learnthe truth of her condition and the story of this other maiden andthe secret of the two black bitches." But Ja'afar answered, "Oour lord, they made it a condition with us that we speak not ofwhat concerneth us not, lest we come to hear what pleaseth usnot." Then said the portress "By Allah, O my sister, come to meand complete this service for me." Replied the procuratrix, "Withjoy and goodly gree." so she took the lute. and leaned it againsther breasts and swept the strings with her finger tips, and begansinging: "Give back mine eyes their sleep long ravished And say mewhither be my reason fled:I learnt that lending to thy love a place Sleep to mine eyelidsmortal foe was made.They said, "We held thee righteous, who waylaid Thy soul?" "Goask his glorious eyes," I said.I pardon all my blood he pleased to spill Owning his troublesdrove him blood to shed.On my mind's mirror sun like sheen he cast Whose keenreflection fire in vitals bredWaters of Life let Allah waste at will Suffice my wage thoselips of dewy red:An thou address my love thou'lt find a cause For plaint andtears or ruth or lustihed.In water pure his form shall greet your eyne When fails thebowl nor need ye drink of wine."Then she quoted from the same ode: "I drank, but the draught of his glance, not wine, And hisswaying gait swayed to sleep these eyne:'Twas not grape juice grips me but grasp of Past 'Twas not bowlo'erbowled me but gifts divine:His coiling curl lets my soul ennetted And his cruel will allmy wits outwitted."After a pause she resumed: "If we 'plain of absence what shall we say? Or if pain afflictus where wend our way?An I hire a truchman to tell my tale The lover's plaintis not told for pay:If I put on patience, a lover's life After loss of love willnot last a day:Naught is left me now but regret, repine And tears floodingcheeks for ever and aye:O thou who the babes of these eyes hast fled Thou arthomed in heart that shall never strayWould heaven I wot hast thou kept our pact Long as stream shallflow, to have firmest fey?Or hast forgotten the weeping slave Whom groans afflict andwhom griefs waylay?Ah, when severance ends and we side by side Couch, I'll blamethy rigours and chide thy pride!"Now when the portress heard her second ode she shrieked aloud andsaid, "By Allah! 'tis right good!". and laying hands on hergarments tore them, as she did the first time, and fell to theground fainting. Thereupon the procuratrix rose end brought her asecond change of clothes after she had sprinkled water on her.She recovered and sat upright and said to her sister thecateress, "Onwards, and help me in my duty, for there remains butthis one song." So the provisioneress again brought out the luteand began to sing these verses: "How long shall last, how long this rigour rife of woe May notsuffice thee all these tears thou seest flow?Our parting thus with purpose fell thou dost prolong Is't notenough to glad the heart of envious foe?Were but this lying world once true to lover heart He had notwatched the weary night in tears of woe:Oh pity me whom overwhelmed thy cruel will My lord, my king,'tis time some ruth to me thou show:To whom reveal my wrongs, O thou who murdered me? Sad,who of broken troth the pangs must undergo!Increase wild love for thee and phrenzy hour by hour And daysof exile minute by so long, so slow.O Moslems, claim vendetta for this slave of LoveWhose sleep Love ever wastes, whose patience Love lays low:Doth law of Love allow thee, O my wish! to lie Lapt inanother's arms and unto me cry Go!?Yet in thy presence, say, what joys shall I enjoy When he Ilove but works my love to overthrow?"When the portress heard the third song she cried aloud. and,laying hands on her garments, rent them down to the very skirtand fell to the ground fainting a third time, again showing thescars of the scourge. Then said the three Kalandars, "WouldHeaven we had never entered this house, but had rather righted onthe mounds and heaps outside the city! for verily our visit hathbeen troubled by sights which cut to the heart." The Caliphturned to them and asked, "Why so?" and they made answer, "Ourminds are sore troubled by this matter." Quoth the Caliph, "Areye not of the household?" and quoth they, "No. nor indeed did weever set eyes on the place till within this hour." Hereat theCaliph marvelled and rejoined, "This man who sitteth by you,would he not know the secret of the matter?" and so saying hewinked and made signs at the Porter. So they questioned the manbut he replied, "By the All might of Allah, in love all arealike! I am the growth of Baghdad, yet never in my borndays did I darken these doors till to day and my companying withthem was a curious matter." "By Allah," they rejoined, "we tookthee for one of them and now we see thou art one like ourselves."Then said the Caliph, "We be seven men, and they only three womenwithout even a fourth to help them. so let us question them oftheir case. and, if they answer us not, fain we will be answeredby force." All of them agreed to this except Ja'afar whosaid, "This is not my recking. let them be. for we aretheir guests and, as ye know, they made a compact and conditionwith us which we accepted and promised to keep: wherefore it isbetter that we be silent concerning this matter. and, as butlittle of the night remaineth, let each and every of us gang hisown gait." Then he winked at the Caliph and whispered to him,"There is but one hour of darkness left and I can bring thembefore thee to morrow, when thou canst freely question them allconcerning their story." But the Caliph raised his head haughtilyand cried out at him in wrath, saying, "I have no patience leftfor my longing to hear of them: let the Kalandars question themforthright." Quoth Ja'afar, "This is not my rede." Then words ranhigh and talk answered talk, and they disputed as to who shouldfirst put the question, but at last all fixed upon the Porter.And as the jingle increased the house mistress could not butnotice it and asked them, "O ye folk! on what matter are yetalking so loudly?" Then the Porter stood up respectfully beforeher and said, "O my lady, this company earnestly desire that thouacquaint them with the story of the two bitches and what makeththee punish them so cruelly. and then thou fallest to weepingover them and kissing them. and lastly they want to hear the taleof thy sister and why she hath been bastinado'd with palm stickslike a man. These are the questions they charge me to put, andpeace be with thee." Thereupon quoth she who was the ladyof the house to the guests, "Is this true that he saith on yourpart?" and all replied, "Yes!" save Ja'afar who kept silence.When she heard these words she cried, "By Allah, ye have wrongedus, O our guests. with grievous wronging. for when you camebefore us we made compact and condition with you, that whososhould speak of what concerneth him not should hear what pleasethhim not. Sufficeth ye not that we took you into our house and fedyou with our best food? But the fault is not so much yours ashers who let you in." Then she tucked up her sleeves from herwrists and struck the floor thrice with her hand crying, "Come yequickly." and lo! a closet door opened and out of it came sevennegro slaves with drawn swords in hand to whom she said, "Pinionme those praters' elbows and bind them each to each." They didher bidding and asked her, "O veiled and virtuous! is it thy highcommand that we strike off their heads?". but she answered,"Leave them awhile that I question them of their condition,before their necks feel the sword." "By Allah, O my lady!" criedthe Porter, "slay me not for other's sin. all these men offendedand deserve the penalty of crime save myself. Now by Allah, ournight had been charming had we escaped the mortification of thosemonocular Kalandars whose entrance into a populous city wouldconvert it into a howling wilderness." Then he repeated theseverses :"How fair is ruth the strong man deigns not smother! Andfairest fair when shown to weakest brother:By Love's own holy tie between us twain, Let one not suffer forthe sin of other."When the Porter ended his verse the lady laughed. And Shahrazadperceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.When It was the Eleventh Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the lady,after laughing at the Porter despite her wrath, came up to theparty and spake thus, "Tell me who ye be, for ye have but an hourof life. and were ye not men of rank and, perhaps, notables ofyour tribes, you had not been so froward and I had hastened yourdoom." Then said the Caliph, "Woe to thee, O Ja'afar, tell herwho we are lest we be slain by mistake. and speak her fair before some horror befal us." "'Tis part of thy deserts,"repliedhe. whereupon the Caliph cried out at him saying, "There is atime for witty words and there is a time for serious work." Thenthe lady accosted the three Kalandars and asked them, "Are yebrothers?". when they answered, "No, by Allah, we be naught butFakirs and foreigners." Then quoth she to one among them, "Wastthou born blind of one eye?". and quoth he, "No, by Allah, 'twasa marvellous matter and a wondrous mischance which caused my eyeto be torn out, and mine is a tale which, if it were written uponthe eye corners with needle gravers, were a warner to whoso wouldbe warned." She questioned the second and third Kalandar.but all replied like the first, "By Allah, O our mistress, eachone of us cometh from a different country, and we are all threethe sons of Kings, sovereign Princes ruling over suzerains andcapital cities." Thereupon she turned towards them and said, "Leteach and every of you tell me his tale in due order and explainthe cause of his coming to our place. and if his story please uslet him stroke his head and wend his way." The first tocome forward was the Hammal, the Porter, who said, "O my lady, Iam a man and a porter. This dame, the cateress, hired me to carrya load and took me first to the shop of a vintner, then to thebooth of a butcher. thence to the stall of a fruiterer. thence toa grocer who also sold dry fruits. thence to a confectioner and aperfumer cum druggist and from him to this place where therehappened to me with you what happened. Such is my story and peacebe on us all!" At this the lady laughed and said, "Rub thy headand wend thy ways!". but he cried, "By Allah, I will not stump ittill I hear the stories of my companions." Then came forward oneof the Monoculars and began to tell her