Once upon a time there were three goslings who were greatly afraid ofthe wolf, for if he found them he would eat them. One day the largest saidto the other two, "Do you know what I think? I think we had better build alittle house, so that the wolf shall not eat us, and meanwhile let us goand look for something to build the house with."Then the other two said, "Yes, yes, yes! Good! Let us go!"So they went and found a man who had a load of straw and said to him,"Good man, do us the favor to give us a little of that straw to make ahouse of, so that the wolf shall not eat us."The man said, "Take it, take it!" And he gave them as much as theywanted.The goslings thanked the man and took the straw and went away to ameadow, and there they built a lovely little house, with a door, andbalconies, and kitchen, with everything, in short.When it was finished, the largest gosling said, "Now I want to seewhether one is comfortable in this house." So she went in and said, "Oh!How comfortable it is in the house! Just wait!" She went and locked thedoor with a padlock, and went out on the balcony and said to the other twogoslings, "I am very comfortable alone here. Go away, for I want nothingto do with you."The two poor little goslings began to cry and beg their sister to openthe door and let them in. If she did not, the wolf would eat them. But shewould not listen to them. Then the two goslings went away and found a manwho had a load of hay. They said to him, "Good man, do us the kindness togive us a little of that hay to build a house with, so that the wolf shallnot eat us!""Yes, yes, yes! Take some, take some!" And he gave them as much as theywanted.The goslings, well pleased, thanked the man and carried the hay to ameadow and built a very pretty little house, prettier than the other. Themiddle sized gosling said the smallest, "Listen. I am going now to seewhether one is comfortable in this house. But I will not act like oursister, you know!"She entered the house and said to herself, "Oh! How comfortable it ishere! I don't want my sister! I am very comfortable here alone." So shewent and fastened the door with a padlock, and went out on the balcony andsaid to her sister, "Oh! How comfortable it is in this house! I don't wantyou here! Go away, go away!"The gosling began to weep and beg her sister to open to her, for shewas alone, and did not know where to go, and if the wolf found her hewould eat her. But it did no good. She shut the balcony and stayed in thehouse.Then the gosling, full of fear, went away and found a man who had aload of iron and stones and said to him, "Good man, do me the favor togive me a few of those stones and a little of that iron to build me ahouse with, so that the wolf shall not eat me!"The man pitied the gosling so much that he said, "Yes, yes, goodgosling, or rather I will build your house for you."Then they went away to a meadow, and the man built a very pretty house,with a garden and everything necessary, and very strong, for it was linedwith iron, and the balcony and door of iron also. The gosling, wellpleased, thanked the man and went into the house and remained there.Now let us go to the wolf.The wolf looked everywhere for these goslings, but could not find them.After a time he learned that they had built three houses. "Good, good! hesaid. "Wait until I find you!" Then he started out and journeyed andjourneyed until he came to the meadow where the first house was. Heknocked at the door, and the gosling said, "Who is knocking at thedoor?""Come, come," said the wolf. "Open up, for it is I.""The gosling said, "I will not open for you, because you will eatme.""Open, open! I will not eat you. Be not afraid. Very well, " said thewolf, "if you will not open the door, I will blow down your house." Andindeed, he did blow down the house and ate up the gosling."Now that I have eaten one," he said, "I will eat the others too." Thenhe went away and came at last to the house of the second gosling, andeverything happened as to the first. The wolf blew down the house and atethe gosling.Then he went in search of the third, and when he found her he knockedat the door, but she would not let him in. Then he tried to blow the housedown, but could not. Then he climbed on the roof and tried to trample thehouse down, but in vain. "Very well," he said to himself. "In one way oranother I will eat you." Then he came down from the roof and said to thegosling, "Listen, gosling. Do you wish us to make peace? I don't want toquarrel with you who are so good, and I have thought that tomorrow we willcook some macaroni, and I will bring the butter and cheese, and you willfurnish the flour.""Very good," said the gosling. "Bring them then."The wolf, well satisfied, saluted the gosling and went away. The nextday the gosling got up early and went and bought the meal and thenreturned home and shut the house. A little later the wolf came and knockedat the door and said, "Come, gosling, open the door, for I have broughtyou the butter and cheese!""Very well, give it to me here by the balcony.""No indeed, open the door!""I will open when all is ready."Then the wolf gave her the things by the balcony and went away. Whilehe was gone the gosling prepared the macaroni, and put it on the fire tocook in a kettle full of water. When it was two o'clock the wolf came andsaid, "Come, gosling, open the door.""No, I will not open, for when I am busy I don't want anyone in theway. When it is cooked, I will open, and you may come in and eat it."A little while after, the gosling said to the wolf, "Would you like totry a bit of macaroni to see whether it is well cooked?""Open the door! That is the better way.""No, no. Don't think you are coming in. Put your mouth to the hole inthe shelf, and I will pour the macaroni down."The wolf, all greedy as he was, put his mouth to the hole, and then thegosling took the kettle of boiling water and poured the boiling waterinstead of the macaroni through the hole into the wolf's mouth. And thewolf was scalded and killed.Then the gosling took a knife and cut open the wolf's stomach, and outjumped the other goslings, who were still alive, for the wolf was sogreedy that he had swallowed them whole. Then there goslings begged theirsister's pardon for the mean way in which they had treated her, and she,because she was kindhearted, forgave them and took them into her house,and there they ate their macaroni and lived together happy andcontented.