Once near a lonely farmhouse surrounded by rice fields there lived arat couple. They were highly regarded by their ownkind and very prosperous. One day, in addition to their many otherchildren, a little daughter was born to them. She was sodainty with her shiny gray fur, her broad little upright ears, and herglistening eyes, that her parents became quite proud of theirlittle daughter. Day in and day out their only thoughts were how theymight prepare a magnificent future for her.When the little rat came of age, both parents came to the conclusionthat only the most powerful being in the entire worldshould be her husband.Once they were discussing this matter with a neighbor, and he said, "Ifyou want to give your daughter in marriage to themost powerful being, you must choose the sun as your son in law, forwithout question, no one equals the sun in power.The rat couple saw that this was true, and without hesitation they madetheir way to the sun and presented to him theirproposal that he should marry their daughter.The sun replied, "I am much indebted to you that you have come so far,and that you have the kind intention to give me yourdaughter in marriage, but please tell me just why you have chosen me to beyour son in law."The rats said, "We would like to give our daughter in marriage to themost powerful being in the world, and without disputeyou are that one. Therefore we have chosen you to be our son in law."Then the sun said, "What you say is not without foundation, but thereis a being more powerful than I, and it is he to whomyou must give your daughter."The rats replied, "Can there in truth be someone more powerful thanyou?"The sun said, "When I want to shine on the earth, a cloud often comesby and covers me up, and my rays are unable eitherto penetrate it or to frighten it away. I am powerless against the cloud.Thus you must go to the cloud and make him yourson in law."The rats saw that it was so, and they went to the cloud.After they had presented their proposal to him, the cloud said, "Youare in error if you think that I am the most powerfulbeing. I do indeed have the power to cover the sun, but I am powerlessagainst the wind. When he begins to blow, he drives meaway and tears me to pieces. There is nothing I can do against him."So the rats went to the wind and made the proposal to him that heshould marry their daughter, whom they wanted to give inmarriage to the most powerful being.But the wind said, "You are in error. I do indeed have the power todrive away the cloud, but I am powerless against thewall that people build to hold me back. I can neither blow through it nordo anything to it. The wall is much more powerful thanI."So the rats again set forth and came to the wall, to whom, in a similarmanner, they made their request.The wall replied, "It is indeed true that I have the power to resistthe wind, but there is a rat that is undermining me, boringinto me and making holes throughout me, and there is nothing I can do tostop him. I am powerless against the rat. It would bebetter for you to take the rat for your son in law than to choose me!"This pleased the rats, for they saw that the wall was right. Theyreturned home and married their dear daughter to ahandsome young rat.They never regretted this, for their daughter lived happily andcontentedly with a man of her own kind. And the parents, whoonce had wanted to elevate her so high, shared in her happiness andsatisfaction.