My sixth brother, O Commander of the Faithful, Shakashik,or Many clamours, the shorn of both lips, was once rich andbecame poor, so one day he went out to beg somewhat to keep lifein him. As he was on the road he suddenly caught sight of a largeand handsome mansion, with a detached building wide and lofty atthe entrance, where sat sundry eunuchs bidding andforbidding. My brother enquired of one of those idlingthere and he replied "The palace belongs to a scion of theBarmaki house." so he stepped up to the door keepers and asked analms of them "Enter," said they, "by the great gate and thoushalt get what thou seekest from the Wazir our master."Accordingly he went in and, passing through the outer entrance,walked on a while and presently came to a mansion of the utmostbeauty and elegance, paved with marble, hung with curtains andhaving in the midst of it a flower garden whose like he had neverseen. My brother stood awhile as one bewildered notknowing whither to turn his steps. then, seeing the farther endof the sitting chamber tenanted, he walked up to it and therefound a man of handsome presence and comely beard. When thispersonage saw my brother he stood up to him and welcomed him andasked him of his case. whereto he replied that he was in want andneeded charity. Hearing these words the grandee showed greatconcern and, putting his hand to his fine robe, rent itexclaiming, "What! am I in a City, and thou here an hungered? Ihave not patience to bear such disgrace!" Then he promised himall manner of good cheer and said, "There is no help but thatthou stay with me and eat of my salt." "O my lord,"answered my brother, "I can wait no longer. for I am indeed dyingof hunger." So he cried, "Ho boy! bring basin and ewer." and,turning to my brother, said, "O my guest come forward and washthy hands." My brother rose to do so but he saw neither ewer norbasin. yet his host kept washing his hands with invisible soap inimperceptible water and cried, "Bring the table!" But my brotheragain saw nothing. Then said the host, "Honour me by eating ofthis meat and be not ashamed." And he kept moving his hand to andfro as if he ate and saying to my brother, "I wonder to see theeeating thus sparely: do not stint thyself for I am sure thou artfamished." So my brother began to make as though he were eatingwhilst his host kept saying to him, "Fall to, and note especiallythe excellence of this bread and its whiteness!" But still mybrother saw nothing. Then said he to himself, "This man is fondof poking fun at people." and replied, "O my lord, in all my daysI never knew aught more winsome than its whiteness or sweeterthan its savour." The Barmecide said, "This bread was baked by ahand maid of mine whom I bought for five hundred dinars." Then hecalled out, "Ho boy, bring in the meat pudding for ourfirst dish, and let there be plenty of fat in it." and, turningto my brother said, "O my guest, Allah upon thee, hast ever seenanything better than this meat pudding? Now by my life, eat andbe not abashed." Presently he cried out again, "Ho boy, serve upthe marinated stew with the fatted sand grouse in it."and he said to my brother, "Up and eat, O my guest, for trulythou art hungry and needest food." So my brother began wagginghis jaws and made as if champing and chewing, whilst thehost continued calling for one dish after another and yetproduced nothing save orders to eat. Presently he cried out, "Hoboy, bring us the chickens stuffed with pistachio nuts." and saidto my brother, "By thy life, O my guest, I have fattened thesechickens upon pistachios. eat, for thou hast never eaten theirlike." "O my lord," replied my brother, "they are indeed firstrate." Then the host began motioning with his hand as though hewere giving my brother a mouthful. and ceased not to enumerateand expatiate upon the various dishes to the hungry man whosehunger waxt still more violent, so that his soul lusted after abit of bread, even a barley scone. Quoth the Barmecide,"Didst thou ever taste anything more delicious than the seasoningof these dishes?". and quoth my brother, "Never, O my lord!" "Eatheartily and be not ashamed," said the host, and the guest, "Ihave eaten my fill of meat." So the entertainer cried, "Take awayand bring in the sweets." and turning to my brother said, "Eat ofthis almond conserve for it is prime and of these honey fritters.take this one, by my life, the syrup runs out of it." "May Inever be bereaved of thee, O my lord," replied the hungry one andbegan to ask him about the abundance of musk in the fritters."Such is my custom," he answered: "they put me a dinar weight ofmusk in every honey fritter and half that quantity of ambergris."All this time my brother kept wagging head and jaws till themaster cried, "Enough of this. Bring us the dessert!" Then saidhe to him,' "Eat of these almonds and walnuts and raisins. and ofthis and that (naming divers kinds of dried fruits), and be notabashed." But my brother replied, "O my lord, indeed I am full: Ican eat no more." "O my guest," repeated the host, "if thou havea mind to these good things eat: Allah! Allah! do notremain hungry." but my brother rejoined, "O my lord, he who hatheaten of all these dishes how can he be hungry?" Then heconsidered and said to himself, "I will do that shall make himrepent of these pranks." Presently the entertainer called out"Bring me the wine." and, moving his hands in the air, as thoughthey had set it before them, he gave my brother a cup and said,"Take this cup and, if it please thee, let me know." "O my lord,"he replied, "it is notable good as to nose but I am wont to drinkwine some twenty years old." "Knock then at this door,"quoth the host "for thou canst not drink of aught better." "Bythy kindness," said my brother, motioning with his hand as thoughhe were drinking. "Health and joy to thee," exclaimed the housemaster and feigned to fill a cup and drink it off. then he handedanother to my brother who quaffed it and made as if he weredrunken. Presently he took the host unawares. and, raising hisarm till the white of his armpit appeared, dealt him such a cuffon the nape of his neck that the palace echoed to it. Then hecame down upon him with a second cuff and the entertainer criedaloud "What is this, O thou scum of the earth?" "O my lord,"replied my brother, "thou hast shown much kindness to thy slave,and admitted him into thine abode and given him to eat of thyvictual. then thou madest him drink of thine old wine till hebecame drunken and boisterous. but thou art too noble not to bearwith his ignorance and pardon his offence." When the Barmakiheard my brother's words he laughed his loudest and said, "Longhave I been wont to make mock of men and play the madcap among myintimates, but never yet have I come across a single one who hadthe patience and the wit to enter into all my humours savethyself: so I forgive thee, and thou shalt be my boon companionin very sooth and never leave me." Then he ordered the servantsto lay the table in earnest and they set on all the dishes ofwhich he had spoken in sport. and he and my brother ate till theywere satisfied. after which they removed to the drinking chamber,where they found damsels like moons who sang all manner songs andplayed on all manner instruments. There they remained drinkingtill their wine got the better of them and the host treated mybrother like a familiar friend, so that he became as it were hisbrother, and bestowed on him a robe of honour and loved him withexceeding love. Next morning the two fell again to feasting andcarousing, and ceased not to lead this life for a term of twentyyears. at the end of which the Barmecide died and the Sultan tookpossession of all his wealth and squeezed my brother of hissavings, till he was left a pauper without a penny to handle. Sohe quitted the city and fled forth following his face.but, when he was half way between two towns, the wild Arabs fellon him and bound him and carried him to their camp, where hiscaptor proceeded to torture him, saying, "Buy thy life of me withthy money, else I will slay thee!" My brother began to weep andreplied, "By Allah, I have nothing, neither gold nor silver. butI am thy prisoner. so do with me what thou wilt." Then the Badawidrew a knife, broad bladed and so sharp grinded that if plungedinto a camel's throat it would sever it clean across from onejugular to the other, and cut off my brother's lips andwaxed more instant in requiring money. Now this Badawi had a fairwife who in her husband's absence used to make advances to mybrother and offer him her favours, but he held off from her. Oneday she began to tempt him as usual and he played with her andmade her sit on his lap, when behold, in came the Badawi who,seeing this, cried out, "Woe to thee, O accursed villain,wouldest thou debauch my wife for me?" Then he took out a knifeand cut off my brother's yard, after which he bound him on theback of a camel and, carrying him to a mountain, left him there.He was at last found by some who recognised him and gave him meatand drink and acquainted me with his condition. whereupon I wentforth to him and brought him back to Baghdad where I made him anallowance sufficient to live on. This, then, O Commander of theFaithful, is the history of my six brothers, and I feared to goaway without relating it all to thee and leave thee in the errorof judging me to be like them. And now thou knowest that I havesix brothers upon my hands and, being more upright than they, Isupport the whole family. When the Caliph heard my story and allI told him concerning my brothers, he laughed and said, "Thousayest sooth, O Silent Man! thou art indeed spare of speech noris there aught of forwardness in thee. but now go forth out ofthis city and settle in some other." And he banished me underedict. I left Baghdad and travelled in foreign parts till I heardof his death and the accession of another to the Caliphate. ThenI returned to Baghdad where I found all my brothers dead andchanced upon this young man, to whom I rendered the kindliestservice, for without me he had surely been killed. Indeed heslanders me and accuses me of a fault which is not in my nature.and what he reports concerning impudence and meddling andforwardness is idle and false. for verily on his account I leftBaghdad and travelled about full many a country till I came tothis city and met him here in your company. And was not this, Oworthy assemblage, of the generosity of my nature?