Once upon a time in the country of Japan there lived two frogs, one ofwhom made his home in a ditch near the town of Osaka, on the sea coast,while the other dwelt in a clear little stream which ran through the cityof Kyoto. At such a great distance apart, they had never even heard ofeach other. but, funnily enough, the idea came into both their heads atonce that they should like to see a little of the world, and the frog wholived at Kyoto wanted to visit Osaka, and the frog who lived at Osakawished to go to Kyoto, where the great Mikado had his palace.So one fine morning in the spring they both set out along the road thatled from Kyoto to Osaka, one from one end and the other from the other.The journey was more tiring than they expected, for they did not knowmuch about traveling, and halfway between the two towns there arose amountain which had to be climbed. It took them a long time and a greatmany hops to reach the top, but there they were at last, and what was thesurprise of each to see another frog before him!They looked at each other for a moment without speaking, and then fellinto conversation, explaining the cause of their meeting so far fromtheir homes. It was delightful to find that they both felt the samewish to learn a little more of their native country and as there was nosort of hurry they stretched themselves out in a cool, damp place, andagreed that they would have a good rest before they parted to go theirways."What a pity we are not bigger," said the Osaka frog. "for then we couldsee both towns from here, and tell if it is worth our while going on.""Oh, that is easily managed," returned the Kyoto frog. "We have only gotto stand up on our hind legs, and hold onto each other, and then we caneach look at the town he is traveling to."This idea pleased the Osaka frog so much that he at once jumped up andput his front paws on the shoulder of his friend, who had risen also.There they both stood, stretching themselves as high as they could, andholding each other tightly, so that they might not fall down. The Kyotofrog turned his nose towards Osaka, and the Osaka frog turned his nosetowards Kyoto. but the foolish things forgot that when they stood uptheir great eyes lay in the backs of their heads, and that though theirnoses might point to the places to which they wanted to go, their eyesbeheld the places from which they had come."Dear me!" cried the Osaka frog, "Kyoto is exactly like Osaka. It iscertainly not worth such a long journey. I shall go home!""If I had had any idea that Osaka was only a copy of Kyoto I should neverhave traveled all this way," exclaimed the frog from Kyoto, and as hespoke he took his hands from his friend's shoulders, and they both felldown on the grass. Then they took a polite farewell of each other, andset off for home again, and to the end of their lives they believed thatOsaka and Kyoto, which are as different to look at as two towns can be,were as alike as two peas.