My fourth brother, O Prince of the Faithful, was the one eyed (namedEl Kooz el Awanee): he was a butcher in Baghdad, and both sold meat andreared lambs. and the great and the rich had recourse to him to purchaseof him their meat. so that he amassed great wealth, and became possessorof cattle and houses. Thus he continued to prosper for a long time. andas he was in his shop, one day, there accosted him an old man with along beard, who handed to him some money, saying, Give me some meat forit. So he took the money, and gave him the meat. and when the old manhad gone away, my brother looked at the money which he had payed him,and, seeing that it was of a brilliant whiteness, put it aside byitself. This old man continued to repair to him during a period of fivemonths, and my brother always threw his money into a chest by itself.after which period he desired to take it out for the purpose of buyingsome sheep. but on opening the chest, he found all the contentsconverted into white paper, clipped round. and he slapped his face, andcried out. whereupon a number of people collected around him, and herelated to them his story, at which they were astonished.He then went again, as usual, into his shop, and, having killed a ram,and hung it up within the shop, he cut off some of the meat, andsuspended it outside, saying within himself, Perhaps now this old manwill come again, and if so, I will seize him: and very soon after, theold man approached with his money. upon which my brother arose, and,laying hold upon him, began to cry out, O Muslims, come to my aid, andhear what this scoundrel hath done unto me! But when the old man heardhis words, he said to him, Which will be more agreeable to thee thatthou abstain from disgracing me, or that I disgrace thee, before thepeople? For what wilt thou disgrace me? said my brother. The old mananswered, For thy selling human flesh for mutton. Thou liest, thouaccursed! exclaimed my brother. None is accursed, rejoined the old man,but he who hath a man suspended in his shop. My brother said, If it beas thou hast asserted, my property and blood shall be lawful tothee: and immediately the old man exclaimed, O ye people hereassembled! verily this butcher slaughtereth human beings, and selleththeir flesh for mutton. and if ye desire to know the truth of myassertion, enter his shop! So the people rushed upon his shop, andbeheld the ram converted into a man, hung up. and they laid hold upon mybrother, crying out against him, Thou infidel! Thou scoundrel! andthose who had been his dearest friends turned upon him and beat him. andthe old man gave him a blow upon his eye, and knocked it out. The peoplethen carried the carcass, and took with them my brother, to the chiefmagistrate of the police. and the old man said to him, O Emeer, this manslaughtereth human beings, and selleth their flesh for mutton. and wehave therefore brought him to thee: arise, then, and perform therequisition of God, whose might and glory be extolled! Upon this, themagistrate thrust back my brother from him, and, refusing to listen towhat he would have said, ordered that five hundred blows of a staffshould be inflicted upon him, and took all his property. Had it not beenfor the great amount of his wealth, he had put him to death.He then banished him from the city.My brother, therefore, went forth in a state of distraction, not knowingwhat course to pursue. but he journeyed onwards until he arrived at agreat city, where he thought fit to settle as a shoemaker: so he openeda shop, and sat there working for his subsistence. And one day he wentforth on some business, and, hearing the neighing of horses, he inquiredrespecting the cause, and was told that the King was going forth tohunt. whereupon he went to amuse himself with the sight of theprocession: but the King happening to look on one side, his eye met thatof my brother, and immediately he hung down his head, and exclaimed, Iseek refuge with God from the evil of this day! He then turned aside thebridle of his horse, and rode back, and all his troops returned withhim. after which, he ordered his pages to run after my brother, and tobeat him. and they did so, giving him so severe a beating that healmost died. and he knew not the cause. He returned to his abode in amiserable plight, and afterwards went and related his misfortune to oneof the King's attendants, who laughed at the recital until he fellbackwards, and said to him, O my brother, the King cannot endure thesight of a one eyed person, and especially when the defect is that ofthe left eye. for in this case, he faileth not to put theperson to death.When my brother heard these words, he determined to fly from that city.and forthwith departed from it, and repaired to another city, wherethere was no King. Here he remained a long time. and after this, as hewas meditating upon his adventure in the former city, he went out oneday to amuse himself, and heard again the neighing of horses behind him.upon which he exclaimed, The decree of God hath come to pass! and ranaway, seeking for a place in which to conceal himself. but he foundnone, until, continuing his search, he saw a door set up as a barricade:so he pushed this, and it fell down. and, entering the doorway, hebeheld a long passage, into which he advanced. Suddenly, however, twomen laid hold upon him, and exclaimed, Praise be to God who hath enabledus to take thee, O thou enemy of God! For these three nights thou hastsuffered us to enjoy neither quiet nor sleep, and we have found norepose: nay, thou hast given us a foretaste of death! O men, said mybrother, what hath happened unto you? They answered, Thou keepest awatch upon us, and desirest to disgrace us, and to disgrace the masterof the house! Is it not enough for thee that thou hast reduced him topoverty, thou and thy companions? Produce now the knife wherewith thouthreatenest us every night. And so saying, they searched him, and foundupon his waist the knife with which he cut the shoe leather. O men, heexclaimed, fear God in your treatment of me, and know that my story iswonderful. They said, What then is thy story? So he related it to them,in the hope that they would liberate him: but they believed not what hesaid. and, instead of shewing him any regard, they beat him, and torehis clothes. whereupon, his body becoming exposed to their view, theydiscovered upon his sides the marks of beating with mira'ahs, andexclaimed, O wretch! these scars bear testimony to thy guilt. They thenconducted him before the Walee, while he said within himself, I amundone for my transgressions, and none can deliver me but God, whosename be exalted! And when he was brought before the Walee, themagistrate said to him, O thou scoundrel! nothing but a heinous crimehath occasioned thy having been beaten with mira'ahs: and he caused ahundred lashes to be inflicted upon him. after which, they mounted himupon a camel, and proclaimed before him, This is the recompense of himwho breaketh into men's houses! But I had already heard of hismisfortunes, and gone forth, and found him. and I accompanied him aboutthe city while they were making this proclamation, until they left him.when I took him, and brought him back secretly into Baghdad, andapportioned him a daily allowance of food and drink.