Once upon a time a man had a shepherd who served him many yearsfaithfully and honestly. One day, whilst herding his flock, thisshepherd heard a hissing sound, coming out of the forest near by, whichhe could not account for. So he went into the wood in the direction ofthe noise to try to discover the cause. When he approached the placehe found that the dry grass and leaves were on fire, and on a tree,surrounded by flames, a snake was coiled, hissing with terror.The shepherd stood wondering how the poor snake could escape, forthe wind was blowing the flames that way, and soon that tree would beburning like the rest. Suddenly the snake cried: 'O shepherd! for thelove of heaven save me from this fire!'Then the shepherd stretched his staff out over the flames and the snakewound itself round the staff and up to his hand, and from his handit crept up his arm, and twined itself about his neck. The shepherdtrembled with fright, expecting every instant to be stung to death, andsaid: 'What an unlucky man I am! Did I rescue you only to be destroyedmyself?' But the snake answered: 'Have no fear. only carry me home to myfather who is the King of the Snakes.' The shepherd, however, was muchtoo frightened to listen, and said that he could not go away and leavehis flock alone. but the snake said: 'You need not be afraid to leaveyour flock, no evil shall befall them. but make all the haste you can.'So he set off through the wood carrying the snake, and after a time hecame to a great gateway, made entirely of snakes intertwined one withanother. The shepherd stood still with surprise, but the snake round hisneck whistled, and immediately all the arch unwound itself.'When we are come to my father's house,' said his own snake to him, 'hewill reward you with anything you like to ask silver, gold, jewels,or whatever on this earth is most precious. but take none of all thesethings, ask rather to understand the language of beasts. He will refuseit to you a long time, but in the end he will grant it to you.'Soon after that they arrived at the house of the King of the Snakes, whoburst into tears of joy at the sight of his daughter, as he had givenher up for dead. 'Where have you been all this time?' he asked, directlyhe could speak, and she told him that she had been caught in a forestfire, and had been rescued from the flames by the shepherd. The King ofthe Snakes, then turning to the shepherd, said to him: 'What reward willyou choose for saving my child?''Make me to know the language of beasts,' answered the shepherd, 'thatis all I desire.'The king replied: 'Such knowledge would be of no benefit to you, for ifI granted it to you and you told any one of it, you would immediatelydie. ask me rather for whatever else you would most like to possess, andit shall be yours.'But the shepherd answered him: 'Sir, if you wish to reward me for savingyour daughter, grant me, I pray you, to know the language of beasts. Idesire nothing else'. and he turned as if to depart.Then the king called him back, saying: 'If nothing else will satisfyyou, open your mouth.' The man obeyed, and the king spat into it, andsaid: 'Now spit into my mouth.' The shepherd did as he was told, thenthe King of the Snakes spat again into the shepherd's mouth. When theyhad spat into each other's mouths three times, the king said:'Now you know the language of beasts, go in peace. but, if you valueyour life, beware lest you tell any one of it, else you will immediatelydie.'So the shepherd set out for home, and on his way through the wood heheard and understood all that was said by the birds, and by every livingcreature. When he got back to his sheep he found the flock grazingpeacefully, and as he was very tired he laid himself down by them torest a little. Hardly had he done so when two ravens flew down andperched on a tree near by, and began to talk to each other in their ownlanguage: 'If that shepherd only knew that there is a vault full of goldand silver beneath where that lamb is lying, what would he not do?' Whenthe shepherd heard these words he went straight to his master and toldhim, and the master at once took a waggon, and broke open the door ofthe vault, and they carried off the treasure. But instead of keeping itfor himself, the master, who was an honourable man, gave it all up tothe shepherd, saying: 'Take it, it is yours. The gods have given it toyou.' So the shepherd took the treasure and built himself a house. Hemarried a wife, and they lived in great peace and happiness, and he wasacknowledged to be the richest man, not only of his native village, butof all the country side. He had flocks of sheep, and cattle, and horseswithout end, as well as beautiful clothes and jewels.One day, just before Christmas, he said to his wife: 'Prepare everythingfor a great feast, to morrow we will take things with us to the farmthat the shepherds there may make merry.' The wife obeyed, and all wasprepared as he desired. Next day they both went to the farm, and in theevening the master said to the shepherds: 'Now come, all of you, eat,drink, and make merry. I will watch the flocks myself to night in yourstead.' Then he went out to spend the night with the flocks.When midnight struck the wolves howled and the dogs barked, and thewolves spoke in their own tongue, saying:'Shall we come in and work havoc, and you too shall eat flesh?' Andthe dogs answered in their tongue: 'Come in, and for once we shall haveenough to eat.'Now amongst the dogs there was one so old that he had only two teethleft in his head, and he spoke to the wolves, saying: 'So long as I havemy two teeth still in my head, I will let no harm be done to my master.'All this the master heard and understood, and as soon as morning dawnedhe ordered all the dogs to be killed excepting the old dog. The farmservants wondered at this order, and exclaimed: 'But surely, sir, thatwould be a pity?'The master answered: 'Do as I bid you'. and made ready to return homewith his wife, and they mounted their horses, her steed being a mare.As they went on their way, it happened that the husband rode on ahead,while the wife was a little way behind. The husband's horse, seeingthis, neighed, and said to the mare: 'Come along, make haste. why areyou so slow?' And the mare answered: 'It is very easy for you, you carryonly your master, who is a thin man, but I carry my mistress, who is sofat that she weights as much as three.' When the husband heard that helooked back and laughed, which the wife perceiving, she urged on themare till she caught up with her husband, and asked him why he laughed.'For nothing at all,' he answered. 'just because it came into my head.'She would not be satisfied with this answer, and urged him more and moreto tell her why he had laughed. But he controlled himself and said: 'Letme be, wife. what ails you? I do not know myself why I laughed.' But themore he put her off, the more she tormented him to tell her the cause ofhis laughter. At length he said to her: 'Know, then, that if I tell ityou I shall immediately and surely die.' But even this did not quiether. she only besought him the more to tell her.Meanwhile they had reached home, and before getting down from his horsethe man called for a coffin to be brought. and when it was there heplaced it in front of the house, and said to his wife:'See, I will lay myself down in this coffin, and will then tell you whyI laughed, for as soon as I have told you I shall surely die.' So he laydown in the coffin, and while he took a last look around him, his olddog came out from the farm and sat down by him, and whined. When themaster saw this, he called to his wife: 'Bring a piece of bread to giveto the dog.' The wife brought some bread and threw it to the dog, but hewould not look at it. Then the farm cock came and pecked at the bread.but the dog said to it: 'Wretched glutton, you can eat like that whenyou see that your master is dying?' The cock answered: 'Let him die, ifhe is so stupid. I have a hundred wives, which I call together when Ifind a grain of corn, and as soon as they are there I swallow it myself.should one of them dare to be angry, I would give her a lesson with mybeak. He has only one wife, and he cannot keep her in order.'As soon as the man understood this, he got up out of the coffin, seizeda stick, and called his wife into the room, saying: 'Come, and I willtell you what you so much want to know'. and then he began to beat herwith the stick, saying with each blow: 'It is that, wife, it is that!'And in this way he taught her never again to ask why he had laughed.