There was a great drought in the land. and the lion called together a number of animals, so that they might devise a plan for retaining water when the rains fell.The animals which attended to the lion's summons were the baboon, the leopard, the hyena, the jackal, the hare, and the mountain tortoise.It was agreed that they should scratch a large hole m some suitable place to hold water. and the next day they all began to work, with the exception of the jackal, who continually hovered about in that locality, and was overheard to mutter that he was not going to scratch his nails off in making waterholes.When the dam was finished, the rains fell, and it was soon filled with water, to the great delight of those who had worked so hard at it. The first one, however, to come and drink there, was the jackal, who not only drank, but filled his clay pot with water, and then proceeded to swim in the rest of the water, making it as muddy and dirty as he could.This was brought to the knowledge of the lion, who was very angry, and ordered the baboon to guard the water the next day, armed with a huge knobkirrie. The baboon was concealed in a bush close to the water. but the jackal soon became aware of his presence there, and guessed its cause.Knowing the fondness of baboons for honey, the jackal at once hit upon a plan, and marching to and fro, every now and then dipped his lingers into his clay pot, and licked them with an expression of intense relish, saying, in a low voice, to himself, "I don't want any of their dirty water, when I have a pot full of delicious honey."This was too much for the poor baboon, whose mouth began to water. He soon began to beg the jackal to give him a little honey, as he had been watching for several hours, and was very hungry and tired.After taking no notice of the baboon at first, the jackal looked round, and said, in a patronizing manner, that he pitied such an unfortunate creature, and would give, him some honey, on certain conditions, viz., that the baboon should give up his knobkirrie and allow himself to be bound by the jackal. He foolishly agreed. and was soon tied in such a manner that he could not move hand or foot.The jackal now proceeded to drink of the water, to fill his pot, and to swim, in the sight of the baboon. from time to time telling him what a foolish fellow he had been to be so easily duped, and that he (the jackal) had no honey or anything else to give him, excepting a good blow on the head every now and then with his own knobkirrie.The animals soon appeared, and found the poor baboon in this sorry plight. looking the picture of misery. The lion was so exasperated that he caused the baboon to be severely punished, and to be denounced as a fool.The tortoise hereupon stepped forward, and offered his services for the capture of the jackal. It was at first thought that he was merely joking. but, when he explained in what manner he proposed to catch him, his plan was considered so feasible that his offer was accepted. He proposed that a thick coating of bijenwerk (a kind of sticky black substance found on bee hives, i.e. , bee glue) should be spread fill over him, and that he should then go and stand at the entrance of the dam, on the water level, so that the jackal might tread upon him, and stick fast. This was accordingly done, and the tortoise posted there.The next day, when the jackal came, he approached the water very cautiously, and wondered to find no one there. He then ventured to the entrance of the water, and remarked how kind they had been in placing there a large black stepping stone for him. As soon, however, as he trod upon the supposed stone, he stuck fast, and saw that he had been tricked. for the tortoise now put his head out, and began to move. The jackal's hind feet being still free, he threatened to smash the tortoise with them if he did not let him go.The tortoise merely answered, "Do as you like."The jackal thereupon made a violent jump, and found, with horror, that his hind foot were now also fast. "Tortoise," said he, " I have still my mouth and teeth left, and will eat you alive, if you do not let me go,""Do as you like," the tortoise again replied.The jackal, in his endeavors to free himself, at last made a desperate bite at the tortoise, and found himself fixed, both head and feet. The tortoise, feeling proud of his successful capture, now marched quietly up to the top of the bank with the jackal on his back, so that he could easily be seen by the animals as they came to the water.They were indeed astonished to find how cleverly the crafty jackal had been caught. and the tortoise was much praised, while the unhappy baboon was again reminded of his misconduct when set to guard the water.The jackal was at once condemned to death by the lion. and the hyena was to execute the sentence. The jackal pleaded hard for mercy, but, finding this useless, he made a last request to the lion (always, as he said, so fair and just in his dealings) that he should not have to suffer a lingering death.The lion inquired of him in what manner he wished to die. and he asked that his tail might be shaved and rubbed with a little fat, and that the hyena might then swing him round twice, and dash his brains out upon a stone. This, being considered sufficiently fair by the lion, was ordered by him to be carried out in his presence.When the jackal's tail had been shaved and greased, the hyena caught hold of him with great force, and before he had fairly lifted him from the ground, the cunning jackal had slipped away from the hyena's grasp, and was running for his life, pursued by all the animals.The lion was the foremost pursuer, and, after a great chase, the jackal got under an overhanging precipice, and, standing on his hind legs with his shoulders pressed against the rock, called loudly lo the lion to help him, as the rock was falling, and would crush them both. The lion put his shoulders to the rock, and exerted himself to the utmost. After some little time, the jackal proposed that he should creep slowly out, and fetch a large pole to prop up the rock, so that the lion could get out and save his life. The jackal did creep out, and left the lion there to starve, and die.