(_A Legend of Cong._)"There was wanst upon a time, long ago, a beautiful young lady thatlived in a castle up by the lake beyant, and they say she was promisedto a king's son, and they wor to be married, when, all of a suddent, hewas murthered, the crathur (Lord help us!) and threwn in the lake abou,and so, of coorse, he couldn't keep his promise to the fair lady andmore's the pity."Well, the story goes that she went out iv her mind, bekase of loosin'the king's son for she was tindher hearted, God help her! like the restiv us and pined away after him, until at last no one about seen her,good or bad. and the story wint that the fairies took her away."Well, sir, in coorse o' time the white throut, God bless it! was seenin the sthrame beyant. and sure the people didn't know what to think ofthe crathur, seein' as how a _white_ brown throut was never heerd avafore nor sence. and years upon years the throut was there, just whereyou seen it this blessed minit, longer nor I can tell aye, throth, andbeyant the memory o' th' ouldest in the village."At last the people began to think it must be a fairy. for what elsecould it be? and no hurt nor harm was iver put an the throut, untilsome wicked sinners of sojers kem to these parts, and laughed at all thepeople, and gibed and jeered them for thinkin' o' the likes. and one o'them in partic'lar (bad luck to him God forgi' me for sayin' it!) sworehe'd catch the throut and ate it for his dinner the blackguard!"Well, what would you think o' the villiany of the sojer? sure enoughhe cotch the throut, and away wid him home, and puts an the fryin' pan,and into it he pitches the purty little thing. The throut squeeled allas one as a Christian crathur, and, my dear, you'd think the sojer idsplit his sides laughin' for he was a harden'd villian. and when hethought one side was done, he turns it over to fry the other. and whatwould you think? but the divil a taste of a burn was an it at all atall. and sure the sojer thought it was a _quare_ throut that couldn't bebriled. 'but,' says he, 'I'll give it another turn by and by' littlethinkin' what was in store for him, the haythen!"Well, when he thought that side was done he turns it again and lo andbehould you, the divil a taste more done that side was nor the other.'Bad luck to me,' says the sojer, 'but that bates the world,' says he.'but I'll thry you agin, my darlint,' says he, 'as cunnin' as you thinkyourself' and so with that he turns it over and over, but not a sign avthe fire was an the purty throut. 'Well,' says the desperatevillian (for sure, sir, only he was a desperate villian _entirely_. hemight know he was doin' a wrong thing, seein' that all his endayvourswas no good) 'well,' says he, 'my jolly little throut, maybe you'refried enough, though you don't seem over well dress'd. but you may bebetter than you look, like a singed cat, and a tit bit, afther all,'says he. and with that he ups with his knife and fork to taste a pieceo' the throut but, my jew'l, the minit he puts his knife into the fishthere was a murtherin' screech, that you'd think the life id lave you ifyou heerd it, and away jumps the throut out av the fryin' pan into themiddle o' the flure. and an the spot where it fell up riz a lovelylady the beautifullest young crathur that eyes ever seen, dressed inwhite, and a band o' goold in her hair, and a sthrame o' blood runnin'down her arm."'Look where you cut me, you villian,' says she, and she held out herarm to him and, my dear, he thought the sight id lave his eyes."'Couldn't you lave me cool and comfortable in the river where yousnared me, and not disturb me in my duty?' says she."Well, he thrimbled like a dog in a wet sack, and at last he stammeredout somethin', and begged for his life, and ax'd her ladyship's pardin,and said he didn't know she was an duty, or he was too good a sojer notto know betther nor to meddle with her."'I _was_ on duty then,' says the lady. 'I was watchin' for my thruelove that is comin' by wather to me,' says she. 'an' if he comes while Iam away, an' that I miss iv him, I'll turn you into a pinkeen, and I'llhunt you up and down for evermore, while grass grows or wather runs.'"Well, the sojer thought the life id lave him at the thoughts iv hisbein' turned into a pinkeen, and begged for marcy. and, with that, saysthe lady:"'Renounce your evil coorses,' says she, 'you villian, or you'll repintit too late. Be a good man for the futhur, and go to your duty reg'lar.And now,' says she, 'take me back and put me into the river agin, whereyou found me.'"'Oh, my lady,' says the sojer, 'how could I have the heart to drownd abeautiful lady like you?'"But before he could say another word the lady was vanished, and therehe saw the little throut an the ground. Well, he put it in a claneplate, and away he run for the bare life, for fear her lover would comewhile she was away. and he run, and he run, ever till he came to thecave agin, and threw the throut into the river. The minit he did, thewather was as red as blood until the sthrame washed the stain away. andto this day there's a little red mark an the throut's side where it wascut."Well, sir, from that day out the sojer was an althered man, andreformed his ways, and wint to his duty reg'lar, and fasted three timesa week though it was never fish he tuk an fastin' days. for afther thefright he got fish id never rest an his stomach savin' your presence.But, anyhow, he was an althered man, as I said before. and in coorse o'time he left the army, and turned hermit at last. and they say he _usedto pray evermore for the sowl of the White Throut_."SAMUEL LOVER.