He had waited a whole year for his bride, and at last she had arrived.She was a Russian Princess, and had driven all the way from Finland in asledge drawn by six reindeer. The sledge was shaped like a great goldenswan, and between the swan's wings lay the little Princess herself. Herlong ermine cloak reached right down to her feet, on her head was a tinycap of silver tissue, and she was as pale as the Snow Palace in which shehad always lived. So pale was she that as she drove through the streetsall the people wondered. "She is like a white rose!" they cried, andthey threw down flowers on her from the balconies.At the gate of the Castle the Prince was waiting to receive her. He haddreamy violet eyes, and his hair was like fine gold. When he saw her hesank upon one knee, and kissed her hand."Your picture was beautiful," he murmured, "but you are more beautifulthan your picture". and the little Princess blushed."She was like a white rose before," said a young Page to his neighbour,"but she is like a red rose now". and the whole Court was delighted.For the next three days everybody went about saying, "White rose, Redrose, Red rose, White rose". and the King gave orders that the Page'ssalary was to be doubled. As he received no salary at all this was notof much use to him, but it was considered a great honour, and was dulypublished in the Court Gazette.When the three days were over the marriage was celebrated. It was amagnificent ceremony, and the bride and bridegroom walked hand in handunder a canopy of purple velvet embroidered with little pearls. Thenthere was a State Banquet, which lasted for five hours. The Prince andPrincess sat at the top of the Great Hall and drank out of a cup of clearcrystal. Only true lovers could drink out of this cup, for if false lipstouched it, it grew grey and dull and cloudy."It's quite clear that they love each other," said the little Page, "asclear as crystal!" and the King doubled his salary a second time. "Whatan honour!" cried all the courtiers.After the banquet there was to be a Ball. The bride and bridegroom wereto dance the Rose dance together, and the King had promised to play theflute. He played very badly, but no one had ever dared to tell him so,because he was the King. Indeed, he knew only two airs, and was neverquite certain which one he was playing. but it made no matter, for,whatever he did, everybody cried out, "Charming! charming!"The last item on the programme was a grand display of fireworks, to belet off exactly at midnight. The little Princess had never seen afirework in her life, so the King had given orders that the RoyalPyrotechnist should be in attendance on the day of her marriage."What are fireworks like?" she had asked the Prince, one morning, as shewas walking on the terrace."They are like the Aurora Borealis," said the King, who always answeredquestions that were addressed to other people, "only much more natural.I prefer them to stars myself, as you always know when they are going toappear, and they are as delightful as my own flute playing. You mustcertainly see them."So at the end of the King's garden a great stand had been set up, and assoon as the Royal Pyrotechnist had put everything in its proper place,the fireworks began to talk to each other."The world is certainly very beautiful," cried a little Squib. "Justlook at those yellow tulips. Why! if they were real crackers they couldnot be lovelier. I am very glad I have travelled. Travel improves themind wonderfully, and does away with all one's prejudices.""The King's garden is not the world, you foolish squib," said a big RomanCandle. "the world is an enormous place, and it would take you three daysto see it thoroughly.""Any place you love is the world to you," exclaimed a pensive CatherineWheel, who had been attached to an old deal box in early life, and pridedherself on her broken heart. "but love is not fashionable any more, thepoets have killed it. They wrote so much about it that nobody believedthem, and I am not surprised. True love suffers, and is silent. Iremember myself onceBut it is no matter now. Romance is a thing of thepast.""Nonsense!" said the Roman Candle, "Romance never dies. It is like themoon, and lives for ever. The bride and bridegroom, for instance, loveeach other very dearly. I heard all about them this morning from abrown paper cartridge, who happened to be staying in the same drawer asmyself, and knew the latest Court news."But the Catherine Wheel shook her head. "Romance is dead, Romance isdead, Romance is dead," she murmured. She was one of those people whothink that, if you say the same thing over and over a great many times,it becomes true in the end.Suddenly, a sharp, dry cough was heard, and they all looked round.It came from a tall, supercilious looking Rocket, who was tied to the endof a long stick. He always coughed before he made any observation, so asto attract attention."Ahem! ahem!" he said, and everybody listened except the poor CatherineWheel, who was still shaking her head, and murmuring, "Romance is dead.""Order! order!" cried out a Cracker. He was something of a politician,and had always taken a prominent part in the local elections, so he knewthe proper Parliamentary expressions to use."Quite dead," whispered the Catherine Wheel, and she went off to sleep.As soon as there was perfect silence, the Rocket coughed a third time andbegan. He spoke with a very slow, distinct voice, as if he was dictatinghis memoirs, and always looked over the shoulder of the person to whom hewas talking. In fact, he had a most distinguished manner."How fortunate it is for the King's son," he remarked, "that he is to bemarried on the very day on which I am to be let off. Really, if it hadbeen arranged beforehand, it could not have turned out better for him.but, Princes are always lucky.""Dear me!" said the little Squib, "I thought it was quite the other way,and that we were to be let off in the Prince's honour.""It may be so with you," he answered. "indeed, I have no doubt that itis, but with me it is different. I am a very remarkable Rocket, and comeof remarkable parents. My mother was the most celebrated Catherine Wheelof her day, and was renowned for her graceful dancing. When she made hergreat public appearance she spun round nineteen times before she wentout, and each time that she did so she threw into the air seven pinkstars. She was three feet and a half in diameter, and made of the verybest gunpowder. My father was a Rocket like myself, and of Frenchextraction. He flew so high that the people were afraid that he wouldnever come down again. He did, though, for he was of a kindlydisposition, and he made a most brilliant descent in a shower of goldenrain. The newspapers wrote about his performance in very flatteringterms. Indeed, the Court Gazette called him a triumph of Pylotechnicart.""Pyrotechnic, Pyrotechnic, you mean," said a Bengal Light. "I know it isPyrotechnic, for I saw it written on my own canister.""Well, I said Pylotechnic," answered the Rocket, in a severe tone ofvoice, and the Bengal Light felt so crushed that he began at once tobully the little squibs, in order to show that he was still a person ofsome importance."I was saying," continued the Rocket, "I was sayingWhat was I saying?""You were talking about yourself," replied the Roman Candle."Of course. I knew I was discussing some interesting subject when I wasso rudely interrupted. I hate rudeness and bad manners of every kind,for I am extremely sensitive. No one in the whole world is so sensitiveas I am, I am quite sure of that.""What is a sensitive person?" said the Cracker to the Roman Candle."A person who, because he has corns himself, always treads on otherpeople's toes," answered the Roman Candle in a low whisper. and theCracker nearly exploded with laughter."Pray, what are you laughing at?" inquired the Rocket. "I am notlaughing.""I am laughing because I am happy," replied the Cracker."That is a very selfish reason," said the Rocket angrily. "What righthave you to be happy? You should be thinking about others. In fact, youshould be thinking about me. I am always thinking about myself, and Iexpect everybody else to do the same. That is what is called sympathy.It is a beautiful virtue, and I possess it in a high degree. Suppose,for instance, anything happened to me to night, what a misfortune thatwould be for every one! The Prince and Princess would never be happyagain, their whole married life would be spoiled. and as for the King, Iknow he would not get over it. Really, when I begin to reflect on theimportance of my position, I am almost moved to tears.""If you want to give pleasure to others," cried the Roman Candle, "youhad better keep yourself dry.""Certainly," exclaimed the Bengal Light, who was now in better spirits."that is only common sense.""Common sense, indeed!" said the Rocket indignantly. "you forget that Iam very uncommon, and very remarkable. Why, anybody can have commonsense, provided that they have no imagination. But I have imagination,for I never think of things as they really are. I always think of them asbeing quite different. As for keeping myself dry, there is evidently noone here who can at all appreciate an emotional nature. Fortunately formyself, I don't care. The only thing that sustains one through life isthe consciousness of the immense inferiority of everybody else, and thisis a feeling that I have always cultivated. But none of you have anyhearts. Here you are laughing and making merry just as if the Prince andPrincess had not just been married.""Well, really," exclaimed a small Fire balloon, "why not? It is a mostjoyful occasion, and when I soar up into the air I intend to tell thestars all about it. You will see them twinkle when I talk to them aboutthe pretty bride.""Ah! what a trivial view of life!" said the Rocket. "but it is only whatI expected. There is nothing in you. you are hollow and empty. Why,perhaps the Prince and Princess may go to live in a country where thereis a deep river, and perhaps they may have one only son, a littlefair haired boy with violet eyes like the Prince himself. and perhapssome day he may go out to walk with his nurse. and perhaps the nurse maygo to sleep under a great elder tree. and perhaps the little boy may fallinto the deep river and be drowned. What a terrible misfortune! Poorpeople, to lose their only son! It is really too dreadful! I shallnever get over it.""But they have not lost their only son," said the Roman Candle. "nomisfortune has happened to them at all.""I never said that they had," replied the Rocket. "I said that theymight. If they had lost their only son there would be no use in sayinganything more about the matter. I hate people who cry over spilt milk.But when I think that they might lose their only son, I certainly am verymuch affected.""You certainly are!" cried the Bengal Light. "In fact, you are the mostaffected person I ever met.""You are the rudest person I ever met," said the Rocket, "and you cannotunderstand my friendship for the Prince.""Why, you don't even know him," growled the Roman Candle."I never said I knew him," answered the Rocket. "I dare say that if Iknew him I should not be his friend at all. It is a very dangerous thingto know one's friends.""You had really better keep yourself dry," said the Fire balloon. "Thatis the important thing.""Very important for you, I have no doubt," answered the Rocket, "but Ishall weep if I choose". and he actually burst into real tears, whichflowed down his stick like rain drops, and nearly drowned two littlebeetles, who were just thinking of setting up house together, and werelooking for a nice dry spot to live in."He must have a truly romantic nature," said the Catherine Wheel, "for heweeps when there is nothing at all to weep about". and she heaved a deepsigh, and thought about the deal box.But the Roman Candle and the Bengal Light were quite indignant, and keptsaying, "Humbug! humbug!" at the top of their voices. They wereextremely practical, and whenever they objected to anything they calledit humbug.Then the moon rose like a wonderful silver shield. and the stars began toshine, and a sound of music came from the palace.The Prince and Princess were leading the dance. They danced sobeautifully that the tall white lilies peeped in at the window andwatched them, and the great red poppies nodded their heads and beat time.Then ten o'clock struck, and then eleven, and then twelve, and at thelast stroke of midnight every one came out on the terrace, and the Kingsent for the Royal Pyrotechnist."Let the fireworks begin," said the King. and the Royal Pyrotechnist madea low bow, and marched down to the end of the garden. He had sixattendants with him, each of whom carried a lighted torch at the end of along pole.It was certainly a magnificent display.Whizz! Whizz! went the Catherine Wheel, as she spun round and round.Boom! Boom! went the Roman Candle. Then the Squibs danced all over theplace, and the Bengal Lights made everything look scarlet. "Good bye,"cried the Fire balloon, as he soared away, dropping tiny blue sparks.Bang! Bang! answered the Crackers, who were enjoying themselvesimmensely. Every one was a great success except the Remarkable Rocket.He was so damp with crying that he could not go off at all. The bestthing in him was the gunpowder, and that was so wet with tears that itwas of no use. All his poor relations, to whom he would never speak,except with a sneer, shot up into the sky like wonderful golden flowerswith blossoms of fire. Huzza! Huzza! cried the Court. and the littlePrincess laughed with pleasure."I suppose they are reserving me for some grand occasion," said theRocket. "no doubt that is what it means," and he looked more superciliousthan ever.The next day the workmen came to put everything tidy. "This is evidentlya deputation," said the Rocket. "I will receive them with becomingdignity" so he put his nose in the air, and began to frown severely as ifhe were thinking about some very important subject. But they took nonotice of him at all till they were just going away. Then one of themcaught sight of him. "Hallo!" he cried, "what a bad rocket!" and hethrew him over the wall into the ditch."BAD Rocket? BAD Rocket?" he said, as he whirled through the air."impossible! GRAND Rocket, that is what the man said. BAD and GRANDsound very much the same, indeed they often are the same". and he fellinto the mud."It is not comfortable here," he remarked, "but no doubt it is somefashionable watering place, and they have sent me away to recruit myhealth. My nerves are certainly very much shattered, and I requirerest."Then a little Frog, with bright jewelled eyes, and a green mottled coat,swam up to him."A new arrival, I see!" said the Frog. "Well, after all there is nothinglike mud. Give me rainy weather and a ditch, and I am quite happy. Doyou think it will be a wet afternoon? I am sure I hope so, but the skyis quite blue and cloudless. What a pity!""Ahem! ahem!" said the Rocket, and he began to cough."What a delightful voice you have!" cried the Frog. "Really it is quitelike a croak, and croaking is of course the most musical sound in theworld. You will hear our glee club this evening. We sit in the old duckpond close by the farmer's house, and as soon as the moon rises we begin.It is so entrancing that everybody lies awake to listen to us. In fact,it was only yesterday that I heard the farmer's wife say to her motherthat she could not get a wink of sleep at night on account of us. It ismost gratifying to find oneself so popular.""Ahem! ahem!" said the Rocket angrily. He was very much annoyed that hecould not get a word in."A delightful voice, certainly," continued the Frog. "I hope you willcome over to the duck pond. I am off to look for my daughters. I havesix beautiful daughters, and I am so afraid the Pike may meet them. Heis a perfect monster, and would have no hesitation in breakfasting offthem. Well, good bye: I have enjoyed our conversation very much, Iassure you.""Conversation, indeed!" said the Rocket. "You have talked the whole timeyourself. That is not conversation.""Somebody must listen," answered the Frog, "and I like to do all thetalking myself. It saves time, and prevents arguments.""But I like arguments," said the Rocket."I hope not," said the Frog complacently. "Arguments are extremelyvulgar, for everybody in good society holds exactly the same opinions.Good bye a second time. I see my daughters in the distance and the littleFrog swam away."You are a very irritating person," said the Rocket, "and very ill bred.I hate people who talk about themselves, as you do, when one wants totalk about oneself, as I do. It is what I call selfishness, andselfishness is a most detestable thing, especially to any one of mytemperament, for I am well known for my sympathetic nature. In fact, youshould take example by me. you could not possibly have a better model.Now that you have the chance you had better avail yourself of it, for Iam going back to Court almost immediately. I am a great favourite atCourt. in fact, the Prince and Princess were married yesterday in myhonour. Of course you know nothing of these matters, for you are aprovincial.""There is no good talking to him," said a Dragon fly, who was sitting onthe top of a large brown bulrush. "no good at all, for he has gone away.""Well, that is his loss, not mine," answered the Rocket. "I am not goingto stop talking to him merely because he pays no attention. I likehearing myself talk. It is one of my greatest pleasures. I often havelong conversations all by myself, and I am so clever that sometimes Idon't understand a single word of what I am saying.""Then you should certainly lecture on Philosophy," said the Dragon fly.and he spread a pair of lovely gauze wings and soared away into the sky."How very silly of him not to stay here!" said the Rocket. "I am surethat he has not often got such a chance of improving his mind. However,I don't care a bit. Genius like mine is sure to be appreciated someday". and he sank down a little deeper into the mud.After some time a large White Duck swam up to him. She had yellow legs,and webbed feet, and was considered a great beauty on account of herwaddle."Quack, quack, quack," she said. "What a curious shape you are! May Iask were you born like that, or is it the result of an accident?""It is quite evident that you have always lived in the country," answeredthe Rocket, "otherwise you would know who I am. However, I excuse yourignorance. It would be unfair to expect other people to be as remarkableas oneself. You will no doubt be surprised to hear that I can fly upinto the sky, and come down in a shower of golden rain.""I don't think much of that," said the Duck, "as I cannot see what use itis to any one. Now, if you could plough the fields like the ox, or drawa cart like the horse, or look after the sheep like the collie dog, thatwould be something.""My good creature," cried the Rocket in a very haughty tone of voice, "Isee that you belong to the lower orders. A person of my position isnever useful. We have certain accomplishments, and that is more thansufficient. I have no sympathy myself with industry of any kind, leastof all with such industries as you seem to recommend. Indeed, I havealways been of opinion that hard work is simply the refuge of people whohave nothing whatever to do.""Well, well," said the Duck, who was of a very peaceable disposition, andnever quarrelled with any one, "everybody has different tastes. I hope,at any rate, that you are going to take up your residence here.""Oh! dear no," cried the Rocket. "I am merely a visitor, a distinguishedvisitor. The fact is that I find this place rather tedious. There isneither society here, nor solitude. In fact, it is essentially suburban.I shall probably go back to Court, for I know that I am destined to makea sensation in the world.""I had thoughts of entering public life once myself," remarked the Duck."there are so many things that need reforming. Indeed, I took the chairat a meeting some time ago, and we passed resolutions condemningeverything that we did not like. However, they did not seem to have mucheffect. Now I go in for domesticity, and look after my family.""I am made for public life," said the Rocket, "and so are all myrelations, even the humblest of them. Whenever we appear we excite greatattention. I have not actually appeared myself, but when I do so it willbe a magnificent sight. As for domesticity, it ages one rapidly, anddistracts one's mind from higher things.""Ah! the higher things of life, how fine they are!" said the Duck. "andthat reminds me how hungry I feel": and she swam away down the stream,saying, "Quack, quack, quack.""Come back! come back!" screamed the Rocket, "I have a great deal to sayto you". but the Duck paid no attention to him. "I am glad that she hasgone," he said to himself, "she has a decidedly middle class mind". andhe sank a little deeper still into the mud, and began to think about theloneliness of genius, when suddenly two little boys in white smocks camerunning down the bank, with a kettle and some faggots."This must be the deputation," said the Rocket, and he tried to look verydignified."Hallo!" cried one of the boys, "look at this old stick! I wonder how itcame here". and he picked the rocket out of the ditch."OLD Stick!" said the Rocket, "impossible! GOLD Stick, that is what hesaid. Gold Stick is very complimentary. In fact, he mistakes me for oneof the Court dignitaries!""Let us put it into the fire!" said the other boy, "it will help to boilthe kettle."So they piled the faggots together, and put the Rocket on top, and litthe fire."This is magnificent," cried the Rocket, "they are going to let me off inbroad day light, so that every one can see me.""We will go to sleep now," they said, "and when we wake up the kettlewill be boiled". and they lay down on the grass, and shut their eyes.The Rocket was very damp, so he took a long time to burn. At last,however, the fire caught him."Now I am going off!" he cried, and he made himself very stiff andstraight. "I know I shall go much higher than the stars, much higherthan the moon, much higher than the sun. In fact, I shall go so highthat"Fizz! Fizz! Fizz! and he went straight up into the air."Delightful!" he cried, "I shall go on like this for ever. What asuccess I am!"But nobody saw him.Then he began to feel a curious tingling sensation all over him."Now I am going to explode," he cried. "I shall set the whole world onfire, and make such a noise that nobody will talk about anything else fora whole year." And he certainly did explode. Bang! Bang! Bang! went thegunpowder. There was no doubt about it.But nobody heard him, not even the two little boys, for they were soundasleep.Then all that was left of him was the stick, and this fell down on theback of a Goose who was taking a walk by the side of the ditch."Good heavens!" cried the Goose. "It is going to rain sticks". and sherushed into the water."I knew I should create a great sensation," gasped the Rocket, and hewent out.THE GOOSE GIRLAn old queen, whose husband had been dead some years, had a beautifuldaughter. When she grew up, she was betrothed to a prince who lived agreat way off. and as the time drew near for her to be married, she gotready to set off on her journey to his country. Then the queen, hermother, packed up a great many costly things jewels, and gold, andsilver, trinkets, fine dresses, and in short, everything that became aroyal bride. for she loved her child very dearly. and she gave her awaiting maid to ride with her, and give her into the bridegroom's hands.and each had a horse for the journey. Now the princess' horse was calledFalada, and could speak.When the time came for them to set out, the old queen went into herbed chamber, and took a little knife, and cut off a lock of her hair,and gave it to her daughter, saying, "Take care of it, dear child. forit is a charm that may be of use to you on the road." Then they took asorrowful leave of each other, and the princess put the lock of hermother's hair into her bosom, got upon her horse, and set off on herjourney to her bridegroom's kingdom.One day, as they were riding along by the side of a brook, the princessbegan to feel very thirsty, and said to her maid, "Pray get down andfetch me some water in my golden cup out of yonder brook, for I want todrink." "Nay," said the maid, "if you are thirsty, get down yourself,and lie down by the water and drink. I shall not be your waiting maidany longer." The princess was so thirsty that she got down, and kneltover the little brook and drank, for she was frightened, and dared notbring out her golden cup. and then she wept, and said, "Alas! what willbecome of me?" And the lock of hair answered her, and said "Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it,Sadly, sadly her heart would rue it."But the princess was very humble and meek, so she said nothing to hermaid's ill behavior, but got upon her horse again.Then all rode further on their journey, till the day grew so warm, andthe sun so scorching, that the bride began to feel very thirsty again.and at last, when they came to a river, she forgot her maid's rudespeech, and said, "Pray get down and fetch me some water to drink in mygolden cup." But the maid answered her, and even spoke more haughtilythan before, "Drink if you will, but I shall not be your waiting maid."Then the princess was so thirsty that she got off her horse and laydown, and held her head over the running stream, and cried, and said,"What will become of me?" And the lock of hair answered her again "Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it,Sadly, sadly her heart would rue it."And as she leaned down to drink, the lock of hair fell from her bosomand floated away with the water, without her seeing it, she was so muchfrightened. But her maid saw it, and was very glad, for she knew thecharm, and saw that the poor bride would be in her power now that shehad lost the hair. So when the bride had finished drinking, and wouldhave got upon Falada again, the maid said, "I shall ride upon Falada,and you may have my horse instead." so she was forced to give up herhorse, and soon afterwards to take off her royal clothes, and put on hermaid's shabby ones.At last, as they drew near the end of the journey, this treacherousservant threatened to kill her mistress if she ever told anyone what hadhappened. But Falada saw it all, and marked it well. Then thewaiting maid got upon Falada, and the real bride was set upon the otherhorse, and they went on in this way till at last they came to the royalcourt. There was great joy at their coming, and the prince hurried tomeet them, and lifted the maid from her horse, thinking she was the onewho was to be his wife. and she was led upstairs to the royal chamber,but the true princess was told to stay in the court below.However, the old king happened to be looking out of the window, and sawher in the yard below. and as she looked very pretty, and too delicatefor a waiting maid, he went into the royal chamber to ask the bride whomit was she had brought with her, that was thus left standing in thecourt below. "I brought her with me for the sake of her company on theroad," said she. "Pray give the girl some work to do, that she may notbe idle." The old king could not for some time think of any work forher, but at last he said, "I have a lad who takes care of my geese. shemay go and help him." Now the name of this lad, that the real bride wasto help in watching the king's geese, was Curdken.Soon after, the false bride said to the prince, "Dear husband, pray dome one piece of kindness." "That I will," said the prince. "Then tellone of your slaughterers to cut off the head of the horse I rode upon,for it was very unruly, and plagued me sadly on the road." But the truthwas, she was very much afraid lest Falada should speak, and tell all shehad done to the princess. She carried her point, and the faithful Faladawas killed. but when the true princess heard of it she wept, and beggedthe man to nail up Falada's head against a large dark gate in the citythrough which she had to pass every morning and evening, that there shemight still see him sometimes. Then the slaughterer said he would do asshe wished, so he cut off the head and nailed it fast under the darkgate.Early the next morning, as the princess and Curdken went out through thegate, she said sorrowfully "Falada, Falada, there thou art hanging!"and the head answered "Bride, bride, there thou are ganging!Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it,Sadly, sadly her heart would rue it."Then they went out of the city, driving the geese. And when they came tothe meadow, the princess sat down upon a bank there and let down herwaving locks of hair, which were all of pure gold. and when Curdken sawit glitter in the sun, he ran up, and would have pulled some of thelocks out. but she cried "Blow, breezes, blow!Let Curdken's hat go!Blow breezes, blow!Let him after it go!"O'er hills, dales, and rocks,Away be it whirl'd,Till the golden locksAre all comb'd and curl'd!"Then there came a wind, so strong that it blew off Curdken's hat, andaway it flew over the hills, and he after it. till, by the time he cameback, she had done combing and curling her hair, and put it up againsafely. Then he was very angry and sulky, and would not speak to her atall. but they watched the geese until it grew dark in the evening, andthen drove them homewards.The next morning, as they were going through the dark gate, the poorgirl looked up at Falada's head, and cried "Falada, Falada, there thou art hanging!"and it answered "Bride, bride, there thou are ganging!Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it,Sadly, sadly her heart would rue it."Then she drove on the geese and sat down again in the meadow, and beganto comb out her hair as before, and Curdken ran up to her, and wanted totake of it. but she cried out quickly "Blow, breezes, blow!Let Curdken's hat go!Blow breezes, blow!Let him after it go!O'er hills, dales, and rocks,Away be it whirl'd,Till the golden locksAre all comb'd and curl'd!"Then the wind came and blew off his hat, and off it flew a greatdistance over the hills and far away, so that he had to run after it:and when he came back, she had done up her hair again, and all was safe.So they watched the geese till it grew dark.In the evening, after they came home, Curdken went to the old king, andsaid, "I cannot have that strange girl to help me to keep the geese anylonger.""Why?" inquired the king."Because she does nothing but tease me all day long."Then the king made him tell him all that had passed.And Curdken said, "When we go in the morning through the dark gate withour flock of geese, she weeps, and talks with the head of a horse thathangs upon the wall, and says "Falada, Falada, there thou art hanging!"and the head answers "Bride, bride, there thou are ganging!Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it,Sadly, sadly her heart would rue it."And Curdken went on telling the king what had happened upon the meadowwhere the geese fed. and how his hat was blown away, and he was forcedto run after it, and leave his flock. But the old king told him to goout again as usual the next day: and when morning came, he placedhimself behind the dark gate, and heard how the princess spoke, and howFalada answered. and then he went into the field and hid himself in abush by the meadow's side, and soon saw with his own eyes how they drovethe flock of geese, and how, after a little time, she let down her hairthat glittered in the sun. and then he heard her say "Blow, breezes, blow!Let Curdken's hat go!Blow breezes, blow!Let him after it go!O'er hills, dales, and rocks,Away be it whirl'd,Till the golden locksAre all comb'd and curl'd!"And soon came a gale of wind, and carried away Curdken's hat, while thegirl went on combing and curling her hair.All this the old king saw. so he went home without being seen. and whenthe goose girl came back in the evening, he called her aside, and askedher why she did so. but she burst into tears, and said, "That I must nottell you or any man, or I shall lose my life."But the old king begged so hard that she had no peace till she had toldhim all, word for word: and it was very lucky for her that she did so,for the king ordered royal clothes to be put upon her, and he gazed withwonder, she was so beautiful.Then he called his son, and told him that he had only the false bride,for that she was merely a waiting maid, while the true one stood by.And the young king rejoiced when he saw her beauty, and heard how meekand patient she had been. and without saying anything, he ordered agreat feast to be prepared for all his court.The bridegroom sat at the top, with the false princess on one side, andthe true one on the other. but nobody knew her, for she was quitedazzling to their eyes, and was not at all like the little goose girl,now that she had on her brilliant dress.When they had eaten and drunk, and were very merry, the old king toldall the story, as one that he had once heard of, and asked the truewaiting maid what she thought ought to be done to anyone who wouldbehave thus."Nothing better," said this false bride, "than that she should be throwninto a cask stuck around with sharp nails, and that two white horsesshould be put to it, and should drag it from street to street till sheis dead.""Thou art she!" said the old king. "and since thou hast judged thyself,it shall be so done to thee."Then the young king was married to his true wife, and they reigned overthe kingdom in peace and happiness all their lives.