Now that the father and elder brother were both dead, all that was leftof the jackal family was one son, who was no less cunning than theothers had been. He did not like staying in the same place any betterthan they, and nobody ever knew in what part of the country he might befound next.One day, when we was wandering about he beheld a nice fat sheep, whichwas cropping the grass and seemed quite contented with her lot.'Good morning,' said the jackal, 'I am so glad to see you. I have beenlooking for you everywhere.''For ME?' answered the sheep, in an astonished voice. 'but we havenever met before!''No. but I have heard of you. Oh! You don't know what fine things Ihave heard! Ah, well, some people have all the luck!''You are very kind, I am sure,' answered the sheep, not knowing whichway to look. 'Is there any way in which I can help you?''There is something that I had set my heart on, though I hardly like topropose it on so short an acquaintance. but from what people have toldme, I thought that you and I might keep house together comfortably, ifyou would only agree to try. I have several fields belonging to me,and if they are kept well watered they bear wonderful crops.''Perhaps I might come for a short time,' said the sheep, with a littlehesitation. 'and if we do not get on, we can part company.''Oh, thank you, thank you,' cried the jackal. 'do not let us lose amoment.' And he held out his paw in such an inviting manner that thesheep got up and trotted beside him till they reached home.'Now,' said the jackal, 'you go to the well and fetch the water, and Iwill pour it into the trenches that run between the patches of corn.'And as he did so he sang lustily. The work was very hard, but thesheep did not grumble, and by and by was rewarded at seeing the littlegreen heads poking themselves through earth. After that the hot sunripened them quickly, and soon harvest time was come. Then the grainwas cut and ground and ready for sale.When everything was complete, the jackal said to the sheep:'Now let us divide it, so that we can each do what we like with hisshare.''You do it,' answered the sheep. 'here are the scales. You must weighit carefully.'So the jackal began to weigh it, and when he had finished, he countedout loud:'One, two, three, four, five, six, seven parts for the jackal, and onepart for the sheep. If she likes it she can take it, if not, she canleave it.'The sheep looked at the two heaps in silence   one so large, the otherso small. and then she answered:'Wait for a minute, while I fetch some sacks to carry away my share.'But it was not sacks that the sheep wanted. for as soon as the jackalcould no longer see her she set forth at her best pace to the home ofthe greyhound, where she arrived panting with the haste she had made.'Oh, good uncle, help me, I pray you!' she cried, as soon as she couldspeak.'Why, what is the matter?' asked the greyhound, looking up withastonishment.'I beg you to return with me, and frighten the jackal into paying mewhat he owes me,' answered the sheep. 'For months we have livedtogether, and I have twice every day drawn the water, while he onlypoured it into the trenches. Together we have reaped our harvest. andnow, when the moment to divide our crop has come, he has taken sevenparts for himself, and only left one for me.'She finished, and giving herself a twist, passed her woolly tail acrossher eyes. while the greyhound watched her, but held his peace. Then hesaid:'Bring me a sack.' And the sheep hastened away to fetch one. Verysoon she returned, and laid the sack down before him.'Open it wide, that I may get in,' cried he. and when he wascomfortably rolled up inside he bade the sheep take him on her back,and hasten to the place where she had left the jackal.She found him waiting for her, and pretending to be asleep, though sheclearly saw him wink one of his eyes. However, she took no notice, butthrowing the sack roughly on the ground, she exclaimed:'Now measure!'At this the jackal got up, and going to the heap of grain which layclose by, he divided it as before into eight portions seven forhimself and one for the sheep.'What are you doing that for?' asked she indignantly. 'You know quitewell that it was I who drew the water, and you who only poured it intothe trenches.''You are mistaken,' answered the jackal. 'It was I who drew the water,and you who poured it into the trenches. Anybody will tell you that!If you like, I will ask those people who are digging there!''Very well,' replied the sheep. And the jackal called out:'Ho! You diggers, tell me: Who was it you heard singing over the work?''Why, it was you, of course, jackal! You sang so loud that the wholeworld might have heard you!''And who it is that sings he who draws the water, or he who emptiesit?''Why, certainly he who draws the water!''You hear?' said the jackal, turning to the sheep. 'Now come and carryaway your own portion, or else I shall take it for myself.''You have got the better of me,' answered the sheep. 'and I suppose Imust confess myself beaten! But as I bear no malice, go and eat someof the dates that I have brought in that sack.' And the jackal, wholoved dates, ran instantly back, and tore open the mouth of the sack.But just as he was about to plunge his nose in he saw two brown eyescalmly looking at him. In an instant he had let fall the flap of thesack and bounded back to where the sheep was standing.'I was only in fun. and you have brought my uncle the greyhound. Takeaway the sack, we will make the division over again.' And he beganrearranging the heaps.'One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, for my mother the sheep, andone for the jackal,' counted he. casting timid glances all the while atthe sack.'Now you can take your share and go,' said the sheep. And the jackaldid not need twice telling! Whenever the sheep looked up, she stillsaw him flying, flying across the plain. and, for all I know, he may beflying across it still.