Translated from the Danish.There were once a king and a queen who lived in a beautiful castle, andhad a large, and fair, and rich, and happy land to rule over. Fromthe very first they loved each other greatly, and lived very happilytogether, but they had no heir.They had been married for seven years, but had neither son nor daughter,and that was a great grief to both of them. More than once it happenedthat when the king was in a bad temper, he let it out on the poor queen,and said that here they were now, getting old, and neither they nor thekingdom had an heir, and it was all her fault. This was hard to listento, and she went and cried and vexed herself.Finally, the king said to her one day, 'This can't be borne any longer.I go about childless, and it's your fault. I am going on a journey andshall be away for a year. If you have a child when I come back again,all will be well, and I shall love you beyond all measure, and nevermore say an angry word to you. But if the nest is just as empty when Icome home, then I must part with you.'After the king had set out on his journey, the queen went about in herloneliness, and sorrowed and vexed herself more than ever. At last hermaid said to her one day, 'I think that some help could be found, ifyour majesty would seek it.' Then she told about a wise old woman inthat country, who had helped many in troubles of the same kind, andcould no doubt help the queen as well, if she would send for her. Thequeen did so, and the wise woman came, and to her she confided hersorrow, that she, was childless, and the king and his kingdom had noheir.The wise woman knew help for this. 'Out in the king's garden,' said she,'under the great oak that stands on the left hand, just as one goes outfrom the castle, is a little bush, rather brown than green, with hairyleaves and long spikes. On that bush there are just at this moment threebuds. If your majesty goes out there alone, fasting, before sunrise, andtakes the middle one of the three buds, and eats it, then in six monthsyou will bring a princess into the world. As soon as she is born, shemust have a nurse, whom I shall provide, and this nurse must live withthe child in a secluded part of the palace. no other person must visitthe child. neither the king nor the queen must see it until it isfourteen years old, for that would cause great sorrow and misfortune.'The queen rewarded the old woman richly, and next morning, before thesun rose, she was down in the garden, found at once the little bushwith the three buds, plucked the middle one and ate it. It was sweet totaste, but afterwards was as bitter as gall. Six months after this, shebrought into the world a little girl. There was a nurse in readiness,whom the wise woman had provided, and preparations were made for herliving with the child, quite alone, in a secluded wing of the castle,looking out on the pleasure park. The queen did as the wise woman hadtold her. she gave up the child immediately, and the nurse took it andlived with it there.When the king came home and heard that a daughter had been born to him,he was of course very pleased and happy, and wanted to see her at once.The queen had then to tell him this much of the story, that it had beenforetold that it would cause great sorrow and misfortune if either he orshe got a sight of the child until it had completed its fourteenth year.This was a long time to wait. The king longed so much to get a sight ofhis daughter, and the queen no less than he, but she knew that it wasnot like other children, for it could speak immediately after it wasborn, and was as wise as older folk. This the nurse had told her, forwith her the queen had a talk now and again, but there was no one whohad ever seen the princess. The queen had also seen what the wise womancould do, so she insisted strongly that her warning should be obeyed.The king often lost his patience, and was determined to see hisdaughter, but the queen always put him off the idea, and so things wenton, until the very day before the princess completed her fourteenthyear.The king and the queen were out in the garden then, and the king said,'Now I can't and I won't wait any longer. I must see my daughter atonce. A few hours, more or less, can't make any difference.'The queen begged him to have patience till the morning. When they hadwaited so long, they could surely wait a single day more. But the kingwas quite unreasonable. 'No nonsense,' said he. 'she is just as muchmine as yours, and I will see her,' and with that he went straight up toher room.He burst the door open, and pushed aside the nurse, who tried tostop him, and there he saw his daughter. She was the loveliest youngprincess, red and white, like milk and blood, with clear blue eyes andgolden hair, but right in the middle of her forehead there was a littletuft of brown hair.The princess went to meet her father, fell on his neck and kissed him,but with that she said, 'O father, father! what have you done now?to morrow I must die, and you must choose one of three things: eitherthe land must be smitten with the black pestilence, or you must have along and bloody war, or you must as soon as I am dead, lay me in a plainwooden chest, and set it in the church, and for a whole year place asentinel beside it every night.'The king was frightened indeed, and thought she was raving, but in orderto please her, he said, 'Well, of these three things I shall choose thelast. if you die, I shall lay you at once in a plain wooden chest, andhave it set in the church, and every night I shall place a sentinelbeside it. But you shall not die, even if you are ill now.'He immediately summoned all the best doctors in the country, and theycame with all their prescriptions and their medicine bottles, but nextday the princess was stiff and cold in death. All the doctors couldcertify to that and they all put their names to this and appended theirseals, and then they had done all they could.The king kept his promise. The princess's body was lain the same day ina plain wooden chest, and set in the chapel of the castle, and on thatnight and every night after it, a sentinel was posted in the church, tokeep watch over the chest.The first morning when they came to let the sentinel out, there was nosentinel there. They thought he had just got frightened and run away,and next evening a new one was posted in the church. In the morning hewas also gone. So it went every night. When they came in the morning tolet the sentinel out, there was no one there, and it was impossible todiscover which way he had gone if he had run away. And what should theyrun away for, every one of them, so that nothing more was over heardor seen of them, from the hour that they were set on guard beside theprincess's chest?It became now a general belief that the princess's ghost walked, and ateup all those who were to guard her chest, and very soon there was no oneleft who would be placed on this duty, and the king's soldiers desertedthe service, before their turn came to be her bodyguard. The king thenpromised a large reward to the soldier who would volunteer for the post.This did for some time, as there were found a few reckless fellows,who wished to earn this good payment. But they never got it, for in themorning, they too had disappeared like the rest.So it had gone on for something like a whole year. every night asentinel had been placed beside the chest, either by compulsion or ofhis own free will, but not a single one of the sentinels was to be seen,either on the following day or any time thereafter. And so it had alsogone with one, on the night before a certain day, when a merry youngsmith came wandering to the town where the king's castle stood. It wasthe capital of the country, and people of every king came to it toget work. This smith, whose name was Christian, had come for that samepurpose. There was no work for him in the place he belonged to, and hewanted now to seek a place in the capital.There he entered an inn where he sat down in the public room, and gotsomething to eat. Some under officers were sitting there, who were outto try to get some one enlisted to stand sentry. They had to go in thisway, day after day, and hitherto they had always succeeded in findingone or other reckless fellow. But on this day they had, as yet, found noone. It was too well known how all the sentinels disappeared, who wereset on that post, and all that they had got hold of had refused withthanks. These sat down beside Christian, and ordered drinks, and drankalong with him. Now Christian was a merry fellow who liked good company.he could both drink and sing, and talk and boast as well, when he got alittle drop in his head. He told these under officers that he was one ofthat kind of folk who never are afraid of anything. Then he was justthe kind of man they liked, said they, and he might easily earn a goodpenny, before he was a day older, for the king paid a hundred dollars toanyone who would stand as sentinel in the church all night, beside hisdaughter's chest.Christian was not afraid of that he wasn't afraid of anything, so theydrank another bottle of wine on this, and Christian went with them upto the colonel, where he was put into uniform with musket, and all therest, and was then shut up in the church, to stand as sentinel thatnight.It was eight o'clock when he took up his post, and for the first hourhe was quite proud of his courage. during the second hour he was wellpleased with the large reward that he would get, but in the third hour,when it was getting near eleven, the effects of the wine passed off, andhe began to get uncomfortable, for he had heard about this post. thatno one had ever escapeed alive from it, so far as was known. But neitherdid anyone know what had become of all the sentinels. The thought ofthis ran in his head so much, after the wine was out of it, that hesearched about everywhere for a way of escape, and finally, at eleveno'clock, he found a little postern in the steeple which was not locked,and out at this he crept, intending to run away.At the same moment as he put his foot outside the church door, he sawstanding before him a little man, who said, 'Good evening, Christian,where are you going?'With that he felt as if he were rooted to the spot and could not move.'Nowhere,' said he.'Oh, yes,' said the little man, 'You were just about to run away, butyou have taken upon you to stand sentinel in the church to night, andthere you must stay.'Christian said, very humbly, that he dared not, and therefore wanted toget away, and begged to be let go.'No,' said the little one, 'you must remain at your post, but I shallgive you a piece of good advice. you shall go up into the pulpit, andremain standing there. You need never mind what you see or hear, it willnot be able to do you any harm, if you remain in your place until youhear the lid of the chest slam down again behind the dead. then alldanger is past, and you can go about the church, wherever you please.'The little man then pushed him in at the door again, and locked it afterhim. Christian made haste to get up into the pulpit, and stood there,without noticing anything, until the clock struck twelve. Then the lidof the princess's chest sprang up, and out of it there came somethinglike the princess, dressed as you see in the picture. It shrieked andhowled, 'Sentry, where are you? Sentry, where are you? If you don'tcome, you shall get the most cruel death anyone had ever got.'It went all round the church, and when it finally caught sight of thesmith, up in the pulpit, it came rushing thither and mounted the steps.But it could not get up the whole way, and for all that it stretched andstrained, it could not touch Christian, who meanwhile stood and trembledup in the pulpit. When the clock struck one, the appearance had to goback into the chest again, and Christian heard the lid slam after it.After this there was dead silence in the church. He lay down where hewas and fell asleep, and did not awake before it was bright daylight,and he heard steps outside, and the noise of the key being put into thelock. Then he came down from the pulpit, and stood with his musket infront of the princess's chest.It was the colonel himself who came with the patrol, and he was not alittle surprised when he found the recruit safe and sound. He wantedto have a report, but Christian would give him none, so he took himstraight up to the king, and announced for the first time that herewas the sentinel who had stood guard in the church over night. The kingimmediately got out of bed, and laid the hundred dollars for him on thetable, and then wanted to question him. 'Have you seen anything?' saidhe. 'Have you seen my daughter?' 'I have stood at my post,' said theyoung smith, 'and that is quite enough. I undertook nothing more.'He was not sure whether he dared tell what he had seen and heard, andbesides he was also a little conceited because he had done what no otherman had been able to do, or had had courage for. The king professed tobe quite satisfied, and asked him whether he would engage himselfto stand on guard again the following night. 'No, thank you,' saidChristian, 'I will have no more of that!''As you please,' said the king, 'you have behaved like a brave fellow,and now you shall have your breakfast. You must be needing something tostrengthen you after that turn.'The king had breakfast laid for him, and sat down at the table with himin person. he kept constantly filling his glass for him and praisinghim, and drinking his health. Christian needed no pressing, but did fulljustice both to the food and drink, and not least to the latter. Finallyhe grew bold, and said that if the king would give him two hundreddollars for it, he was his man to stand sentry next night as well.When this was arranged, Christian bade him 'Good day,' and went downamong the guards, and then out into the town along with other soldiersand under officers. He had his pocket full of money, and treated them,and drank with them and boasted and made game of the good for nothingswho were afraid to stand on guard, because they were frightened that thedead princess would eat them. See whether she had eaten him! So the daypassed in mirth and glee, but when eight o'clock came, Christian wasagain shut up in the church, all alone.Before he had been there two hours, he got tired of it, and thought onlyof getting away. He found a little door behind the altar which was notlocked, and at ten o'clock he slipped out at it, and took to his heelsand made for the beach. He had got half way thither, when all at oncethe same little man stood in front of him and said, 'Good evening,Christian, where are you going?' 'I've leave to go where I please,'said the smith, but at the same time he noticed that he could not move afoot. 'No, you have undertaken to keep guard to night as well,' said thelittle man, 'and you must attend to that.' He then took hold of him, andhowever unwilling he was, Christian had to go with him right back tothe same little door that he had crept out at. When they got there, thelittle man said to him, 'Go in front of the altar now, and take in yourhand the book that is lying there. There you shall stay till you hearthe lid of the chest slam down over the dead. In that way you will cometo no harm.'With that the little man shoved him in at the door, and locked it.Christian then immediately went in front of the altar, and took thebook in his hand, and stood thus until the clock struck twelve, andthe appearance sprang out of the chest. 'Sentry, where are you? Sentry,where are you?' it shrieked, and then rushed to the pulpit, and rightup into it. But there was no one there that night. Then it howled andshrieked again,My father has set no sentry in,War and Pest this night begin.At the same moment, it noticed the smith standing in front of the altar,and came rushing towards him. 'Are you there?' it screamed. 'now I'llcatch you.' But it could not come up over the step in front of thealtar, and there it continued to howl, and scream, and threaten, untilthe clock struck one, when it had to go into the chest again, andChristian heard the lid slam above it. That night, however, it had notthe same appearance as on the previous one. it was less ugly.When all was quiet in the church, the smith lay down before the altarand slept calmly till the following morning, when the colonel came tofetch him. He was taken up to the king again, and things went on as theday before. He got his money, but would give no explanation whether hehad seen the king's daughter, and he would not take the post again,he said. But after he had got a good breakfast, and tasted well of theking's wines, he undertook to go on guard again the third night, but hewould not do it for less than the half of the kingdom, he said, for itwas a dangerous post, and the king had to agree, and promise him this.The remainder of the day went like the previous one. He playedthe boastful soldier, and the merry smith, and he had comrades andboon companions in plenty. At eight o'clock he had to put on his uniformagain, and was shut up in the church. He had not been there for an hourbefore he had come to his senses, and thought, 'It's best to stop now,while the game is going well.' The third night, he was sure, would bethe worst. he had been drunk when he promised it, and the half of thekingdom, the king could never have been in earnest about that! So hedecided to leave, without waiting so long as on the previous nights. Inthat way he would escape the little man who had watched him before. Allthe doors and posterns were locked, but he finally though of creepingup to a window, and opening that, and as the clock struck nine, he creptout there. It was fairly high in the wall, but he got to the ground withno bones broken, and started to run. He got down to the shore withoutmeeting anyone, and there he got into a boat, and pushed off from land.He laughed immensely to himself at the thought of how cleverly he hadmanaged and how he had cheated the little man. Just then he heard avoice from the shore, 'Good evening, Christian, where are you going?' Hegave no answer. 'To night your legs will be too short,' he thought, andpulled at the oars. But he then felt something lay hold of the boat, anddrag it straight in to shore, for all that he sat and struggled with theoars.The man then laid hold of him, and said, 'You must remain at your post,as you have promised,' and whether he liked it or not, Christian hadjust to go back with him the whole way to the church.He could never get in at that window again, Christian said. it was fartoo high up.'You must go in there, and you shall go in there,' said the little man,and with that he lifted him up on to the window sill. Then he said tohim: 'Notice well now what you have to do. This evening you must stretchyourself out on the left hand side of her chest. The lid opens to theright, and she comes out to the left. When she has got out of the chestand passed over you, you must get into it and lie there, and that ina hurry, without her seeing you. There you must remain lying until daydawns, and whether she threatens you or entreats you, you must not comeout of it, or give her any answer. Then she has no power over you, andboth you and she are freed.'The smith then had to go in at the window, just as he came out, andwent and laid himself all his length on the left side of the princess'schest, close up to it, and there he lay stiff as a rock until the clockstruck twelve. Then the lid sprang up to the right, and the princesscame out, straight over him, and rushed round the church, howling andshrieking 'Sentry, where are you? Sentry, where are you?' She wenttowards the altar, and right up to it, but there was no one there. thenshe screamed again,My father has set no sentry in,War and Pest will now begin.Then she went round the whole church, both up and down, sighing andweeping,My father has set no sentry in,War and Pest will now begin.Then she went away again, and at the same moment the clock in the towerstruck one.Then the smith heard in the church a soft music, which grew louder andlouder, and soon filled the whole building. He heard also a multitude offootsteps, as if the church was being filled with people. He heardthe priest go through the service in front of the altar, and there wassinging more beautiful than he had ever heard before. Then he also heardthe priest offer up a prayer of thanksgiving because the land had beenfreed from war and pestilence, and from all misfortune, and the king'sdaughter delivered from the evil one. Many voices joined in, and a hymnof praise was sung. then he heard the priest again, and heard his ownname and that of the princess, and thought that he was being wedded toher. The church was packed full, but he could see nothing. Then he heardagain the many footsteps as ol' folk leaving the church, while the musicsounded fainter and fainter, until it altogether died away. When it wassilent, the light of day began to break in through the windows.The smith sprang up out of the chest and fell on his knees and thankedGod. The church was empty, but up in front of the altar lay theprincess, white and red, like a human being, but sobbing and crying, andshaking with cold in her white shroud. The smith took his sentry coatand wrapped it round her. then she dried her tears, and took his handand thanked him, and said that he had now freed her from all the sorcerythat had been in her from her birth, and which had come over her againwhen her father broke the command against seeing her until she hadcompleted her fourteenth year.She said further, that if he who had delivered her would take her inmarriage, she would be his. If not, she would go into a nunnery, and hecould marry no other as long as she lived, for he was wedded to her withthe service of the dead, which he had heard.She was now the most beautiful young princess that anyone could wish tosee, and he was now lord of half the kingdom, which had been promisedhim for standing on guard the third nigh. So they agreed that they wouldhave each other, and love each other all their days.With the first sunbeam the watch came and opened the church, and notonly was the colonel there, but the king in person, come to see what hadhappened to the sentinel. He found them both sitting hand in hand on thestep in front of the altar, and immediately knew his daughter again,and took her in his arms, thanking God and her deliverer. He made noobjections to what they had arranged, and so Christian the smith heldhis wedding with the princess, and got half the kingdom at once, and thewhole of it when the king died.As for the other sentries, with so many doors and windows open, no doubtthey had run away, and gone into the Prussian service. And as for whatChristian said he saw, he had been drinking more wine than was good forhim.