Rabbi Lion, of the ancient city of Prague, sat in his study in theGhetto looking very troubled. Through the window he could see theRiver Moldau with the narrow streets of the Jewish quarter clusteredaround the cemetery, which still stands to day, and where is to beseen this famous man's tomb. Beyond the Ghetto rose the towers andspires of the city, but just at that moment it was not the cruelty ofthe people to the Jews that occupied the rabbi's thoughts. He wasunable to find a servant, even one to attend the fire on the Sabbathfor him.The truth was that the people were a little afraid of the rabbi. Hewas a very learned man, wise and studious, and a scientist. andbecause he did wonderful things people called him a magician. Hisexperiments in chemistry frightened them. Late at nights they sawlittle spurts of blue and red flame shine from his window, and theysaid that demons and witches came at his beck and call. So nobodywould enter his service.(: The monster was battering down the door of thesynagogue. (_Page 249_).)"If, as they declare, I am truly a magician," he said to himself, "whyshould I not make for myself a servant, one that will tend the firefor me on the Sabbath?"He set to work on his novel idea and in a few weeks had completed hismechanical creature, a woman. She looked like a big, strong, laboringwoman, and the rabbi was greatly pleased with his handiwork."Now to endow it with life," he said.Carefully, in the silence of his mysterious study at midnight, hewrote out the Unpronounceable Sacred Name of God on a piece ofparchment. Then he rolled it up and placed it in the mouth of thecreature.Immediately it sprang up and began to move like a living thing. Itrolled its eyes, waved its arms, and nearly walked through the window.In alarm, Rabbi Lion snatched the parchment from its mouth and thecreature fell helpless to the floor."I must be careful," said the rabbi. "It is a wonderful machine withits many springs and screws and levers, and will be most useful to meas soon as I learn to control it properly."All the people marveled when they saw the rabbi's machine womanrunning errands and doing many duties, controlled only by histhoughts. She could do everything but speak, and Rabbi Lion discoveredthat he must take the Name from her mouth before he went to sleep.Otherwise, she might have done mischief.One cold Sabbath afternoon, the rabbi was preaching in the synagogueand the little children stood outside his house looking at themachine woman seated by the window. When they rolled their eyes shedid, and at last they shouted: "Come and play with us."She promptly jumped through the window and stood among the boys andgirls."We are cold," said one. "Canst thou make a fire for us?"The creature was made to obey orders, so she at once collected sticksand lit a fire in the street. Then, with the children, she dancedround the blaze in great glee. She piled on all the sticks and oldbarrels she could find, and soon the fire spread and caught a house.The children ran away in fear while the fire blazed so furiously thatthe whole town became alarmed. Before the flames could beextinguished, a number of houses had been burned down and much damagedone. The creature could not be found, and only when the parchmentwith the Name, which could not burn, was discovered amid the ashes,was it known that she had been destroyed in the conflagration.The Council of the city was indignant when it learned of the strangeoccurrence, and Rabbi Lion was summoned to appear before King Rudolf."What is this I hear," asked his majesty. "Is it not a sin to make aliving creature?""It had no life but that which the Sacred Name gave it," replied therabbi."I understand it not," said the king. "Thou wilt be imprisoned andmust make another creature, so that I may see it for myself. If it isas thou sayest, thy life shall be spared. If not if, in truth, thouprofanest God's sacred law and makest a living thing, thou shalt dieand all thy people shall be expelled from this city."Rabbi Lion at once set to work, and this time made a man, much biggerthan the woman that had been burned."As your majesty sees," said the rabbi, when his task was completed,"it is but a creature of wood and glue with springs at the joints. Nowobserve," and he put the Sacred Name in its mouth.Slowly the creature rose to its feet and saluted the monarch who wasso delighted that he cried: "Give him to me, rabbi.""That cannot be," said Rabbi Lion, solemnly. "The Sacred Name must notpass from my possession. Otherwise the creature may do great damageagain. This time I shall take care and will not use the man on theSabbath."The king saw the wisdom of this and set the rabbi at liberty andallowed him to take the creature to his house. The Jews looked on inwonderment when they saw the creature walking along the street by theside of Rabbi Lion, but the children ran away in fear, crying: "Thebogey man."The rabbi exercised caution with his bogey man this time, and everyFriday, just before Sabbath commenced, he took the name from its mouthso as to render it powerless.It became more wonderful every day, and one evening it startled therabbi from a doze by beginning to speak."I want to be a soldier," it said, "and fight for the king. I belongto the king. You made me for him.""Silence," cried Rabbi Lion, and it had to obey. "I like not this,"said the rabbi to himself. "This monster must not become my master,or it may destroy me and perhaps all the Jews."He could not help but wonder whether the king was right and that itmust be a sin to create a man. The creature not only spoke, but grewsurly and disobedient, and yet the rabbi hesitated to break it up, forit was most useful to him. It did all his cooking, washing andcleaning, and three servants could not have performed the work soneatly and quickly.One Friday afternoon when the rabbi was preparing to go to thesynagogue, he heard a loud noise in the street."Come quickly," the people shouted at his door. "Your bogey man istrying to get into the synagogue."Rabbi Lion rushed out in a state of alarm. The monster had slippedfrom the house and was battering down the door of the synagogue."What art thou doing?" demanded the rabbi, sternly."Trying to get into the synagogue to destroy the scrolls of the HolyLaw," answered the monster. "Then wilt thou have no power over me, andI shall make a great army of bogey men who shall fight for the kingand kill all the Jews.""I will kill thee first," exclaimed Rabbi Lion, and springing forwardhe snatched the parchment with the Name so quickly from the creature'smouth that it collapsed at his feet a mass of broken springs andpieces of wood and glue.For many years afterward these pieces were shown to visitors in theattic of the synagogue when the story was told of the rabbi'sbogey man.