THERE was once upon a time a couple of poor folks who lived in awretched hut, far away from everyone else, in a wood. They only justmanaged to live from hand to mouth, and had great difficulty in doingeven so much as that, but they had three sons, and the youngest of themwas called Cinderlad, for he did nothing else but lie and poke aboutamong the ashes.One day the eldest lad said that he would go out to earn his living.he soon got leave to do that, and set out on his way into the world. Hewalked on and on for the whole day, and when night was beginning to fallhe came to a royal palace. The King was standing outside on the steps,and asked where he was going.'Oh, I am going about seeking a place, my father,' said the youth.'Wilt thou serve me, and watch my seven foals?' asked the King. 'If thoucanst watch them for a whole day and tell me at night what they eat anddrink, thou shalt have the Princess and half my kingdom, but if thoucanst not, I will cut three red stripes on thy back.'The youth thought that it was very easy work to watch the foals, andthat he could do it well enough.Next morning, when day was beginning to dawn, the King's Master of theHorse let out the seven foals. and they ran away, and the youth afterthem just as it chanced, over hill and dale, through woods end bogs.When the youth had run thus for a long time he began to be tired, andwhen he had held on a little longer he was heartily weary of watchingat all, and at the same moment he came to a cleft in a rock where an oldwoman was sitting spinning with her distaff in her hand.As soon as she caught sight of the youth, who was running after thefoals till the perspiration streamed down his face, she cried:'Come hither, come hither, my handsome son, and let me comb your hairfor you.'The lad was willing enough, so he sat down in the cleft of the rockbeside the old hag, and laid his head on her knees, and she combed hishair all day while he lay there and gave himself up to idleness.When evening was drawing near, the youth wanted to go.'I may just as well go straight home again,' said he, 'for it is no useto go to the King's palace.''Wait till it is dusk,' said the old hag, 'and then the King's foalswill pass by this place again, and you can run home with them. no onewill ever know that you have been lying here all day instead of watchingthe foals.'So when they came she gave the lad a bottle of water and a bit of moss,and told him to show these to the King and say that this was what hisseven foals ate and drank.'Hast thou watched faithfully and well the whole day long?' said theKing, when the lad came into his presence in the evening.'Yes, that I have!' said the youth.'Then you are able to tell me what it is that my seven foals eat anddrink,' said the King.So the youth produced the bottle of water and the bit of moss which hehad got from the old woman, saying:'Here you see their meat, and here you see their drink.'Then the King knew how his watching had been done, and fell into such arage that he ordered his people to chase the youth back to his own homeat once. but first they were to cut three red stripes in his back, andrub salt into them.When the youth reached home again, anyone can imagine what a state ofmind he was in. He had gone out once to seek a place, he said, but neverwould he do such a thing again.Next day the second son said that he would now go out into the world toseek his fortune. His father and mother said 'No,' and bade him lookat his brother's back, but the youth would not give up his design, andstuck to it, and after a long, long time he got leave to go, and setforth on his way. When he had walked all day he too came to the King'spalace, and the King was standing outside on the steps, and asked wherehe was going. and when the youth replied that he was going about insearch of a place, the King said that he might enter into his serviceand watch his seven foals. Then the King promised him the samepunishment and the same reward that he had promised his brother.The youth at once consented to this and entered into the King's service,for he thought he could easily watch the foals and inform the King whatthey ate and drank.In the grey light of dawn the Master of the Horse let out the sevenfoals, and off they went again over hill and dale, and off went the ladafter them. But all went with him as it had gone with his brother. Whenhe had run after the foals for a long, long time and was hot and tired,he passed by a cleft in the rock where an old woman was sitting spinningwith a distaff, and she called to him:'Come hither, come hither, my handsome son, and let me comb your hair.'The youth liked the thought of this, let the foals run where they chose,and seated himself in the cleft of the rock by the side of the old hag.So there he sat with his head on her lap, taking his ease the livelongday.The foals came back in the evening, and then he too got a bit of mossand a bottle of water from the old hag, which things he was to show tothe King. But when the King asked the youth: 'Canst thou tell me what myseven foals eat and drink?' and the youth showed him the bit of moss andthe bottle of water, and said: 'Yes here may you behold their meat, andhere their drink,' the King once more became wroth, and commanded thatthree red stripes should be cut on the lad's back, that salt should bestrewn upon them, and that he should then be instantly chased back tohis own home. So when the youth got home again he too related all thathad happened to him, and he too said that he had gone out in search of aplace once, but that never would he do it again.On the third day Cinderlad wanted to set out. He had a fancy to try towatch the seven foals himself, he said.The two others laughed at him, and mocked him. 'What I when all went soill with us, do you suppose that you are going to succeed? You look likesucceeding you who have never done anything else but lie and poke aboutamong the ashes!' said they.'Yes, I will go too,' said Cinderlad, 'for I have taken it into myhead.'The two brothers laughed at him, and his father and mother begged himnot to go, but all to no purpose, and Cinderlad set out on his way. Sowhen he had walked the whole day, he too came to the King's palace asdarkness began to fall.There stood the King outside on the steps, and he asked whither he wasbound.'I am walking about in search of a place,' said Cinderlad.'From whence do you come, then?' inquired the King, for by this time hewanted to know a little more about the men before he took any of theminto his service.So Cinderlad told him whence he came, and that he was brother to the twowho had watched the seven foals for the King, and then he inquired if hemight be allowed to try to watch them on the following day.'Oh, shame on them!' said the King, for it enraged him even to think ofthem. 'If thou art brother to those two, thou too art not good for much.I have had enough of such fellows.''Well, but as I have come here, you might just give me leave to make theattempt,' said Cinderlad.'Oh, very well, if thou art absolutely determined to have thy backflayed, thou may'st have thine own way if thou wilt,' said the King.'I would much rather have the Princess,' said Cinderlad.Next morning, in the grey light of dawn, the Master of the Horse letout the seven foals again, and off they set over hill and dale, throughwoods and bogs, and off went Cinderlad after them. When he had run thusfor a long time, he too came to the cleft in the rock. There the oldhag was once more sitting spinning from her distaff, and she cried toCinderlad.'Come hither, come hither, my handsome son, and let me comb your hairfor you.''Come to me, then. come to me!' said Cinderlad, as he passed by jumpingand running, and keeping tight hold of one of the foals' tails.When he had got safely past the cleft in the rock, the youngest foalsaid:'Get on my back, for we have still a long way to go.' So the lad didthis.And thus they journeyed onwards a long, long way.'Dost thou see anything now?' said the Foal.'No,' said Cinderlad.So they journeyed onwards a good bit farther.'Dost thou see anything now?' asked the Foal.'Oh, no,' said the lad.When they had gone thus for a long, long way, the Foal again asked:'Dost thou see anything now?''Yes, now I see something that is white,' said Cinderlad. 'It looks likethe trunk of a great thick birch tree.''Yes, that is where we are to go in,' said the Foal.When they got to the trunk, the eldest foal broke it down on one side,and then they saw a door where the trunk had been standing, and insidethis there was a small room, and in the room there was scarcely anythingbut a small fire place and a couple of benches, but behind the door hunga great rusty sword and a small pitcher.'Canst thou wield that sword?' asked the Foal.Cinderlad tried, but could not do it. so he had to take a draught fromthe pitcher, and then one more, and after that still another, and thenhe was able to wield the sword with perfect ease.'Good,' said the Foal. 'and now thou must take the sword away withthee, and with it shalt thou cut off the heads of all seven of us on thywedding day, and then we shall become princes again as we were before.For we are brothers of the Princess whom thou art to have when thoucanst tell the King what we eat and drink, but there is a mighty Trollwho has cast a spell over us. When thou hast cut off our heads, thoumust take the greatest care to lay each head at the tail of the body towhich it belonged before, and then the spell which the Troll has castupon us will lose all its power.'Cinderlad promised to do this, and then they went on farther.When they had travelled a long, long way, the Foal said:'Dost thou see anything?''No,' said Cinderlad.So they went on a great distance farther.'And now?' inquired the Foal, 'seest thou nothing now?''Alas! no,' said Cinderlad.So they travelled onwards again, for many and many a mile, over hill anddale.'Now, then,' said the Foal, 'dost thou not see anything now?''Yes,' said Cinderlad. 'now I see something like a bluish streak, far,far away.''That is a river,' said the Foal, 'and we have to cross it.'There was a long, handsome bridge over the river, and when they had gotto the other side of it they again travelled on a long, long way, andthen once more the Foal inquired if Cinderlad saw anything. Yes, thistime he saw something that looked black, far, far away, and was ratherlike a church tower.'Yes,' said the Foal, 'we shall go into that.'When the Foals got into the churchyard they turned into men and lookedlike the sons of a king, and their clothes were so magnificent that theyshone with splendour, and they went into the church and receivedbread and wine from the priest, who was standing before the altar, andCinderlad went in too. But when the priest had laid his hands on theprinces and read the blessing, they went out of the church again, andCinderlad went out too, but he took with him a flask of wine and someconsecrated bread. No sooner had the seven princes come out into thechurchyard than they became foals again, and Cinderlad got upon the backof the youngest, and they returned by the way they had come, only theywent much, much faster.First they went over the bridge, and then past the trunk of the birchtree, and then past the old hag who sat in the cleft of the rockspinning, and they went by so fast that Cinderlad could not hear whatthe old hag screeched after him, but just heard enough to understandthat she was terribly enraged.It was all but dark when they got back to the King at nightfall, and hehimself was standing in the courtyard waiting for them.'Hast thou watched well and faithfully the whole day?' said the King toCinderlad.'I have done my best,' replied Cinderlad.'Then thou canst tell me what my seven foals eat and drink?' asked theKing.So Cinderlad pulled out the consecrated bread and the flask of wine, andshowed them to the King. 'Here may you behold their meat, and here theirdrink,' said he.'Yes, diligently and faithfully hast thou watched,' said the King, 'andthou shalt have the Princess and half the kingdom.'So all was made ready for the wedding, and the King said that it wasto be so stately and magnificent that everyone should hear of it, andeveryone inquire about it.But when they sat down to the marriage feast, the bridegroom arose andwent down to the stable, for he said that he had forgotten somethingwhich he must go and look to. When he got there, he did what the foalshad bidden him, and cut off the heads of all the seven. First theeldest, and then the second, and so on according to their age, and hewas extremely careful to lay each head at the tail of the foal to whichit had belonged, and when that was done, all the foals became princesagain. When he returned to the marriage feast with the seven princes,the King was so joyful that he both kissed Cinderlad and clapped him onthe back, and his bride was still more delighted with him than she hadbeen before.'Half my kingdom is thine already,' said the King, 'and the otherhalf shall be thine after my death, for my sons can get countries andkingdoms for themselves now that they have become princes again.'Therefore, as all may well believe, there was joy and merriment at thatwedding.(31)(31) From J. Moe.