There was once a poor old fisherman, and one year he was not gettingmuch fish. On a day of days, while he was fishing, there rose asea maiden at the side of his boat, and she asked him, "Are you gettingmuch fish?" The old man answered and said, "Not I." "What reward wouldyou give me for sending plenty of fish to you?" "Ach!" said the oldman, "I have not much to spare." "Will you give me the first son youhave?" said she. "I would give ye that, were I to have a son," said he."Then go home, and remember me when your son is twenty years of age,and you yourself will get plenty of fish after this." Everythinghappened as the sea maiden said, and he himself got plenty of fish. butwhen the end of the twenty years was nearing, the old man was growingmore and more sorrowful and heavy hearted, while he counted each day asit came.He had rest neither day nor night. The son asked his father one day,"Is any one troubling you?" The old man said, "Some one is, but that'snought to do with you nor any one else." The lad said, "I must knowwhat it is." His father told him at last how the matter was with himand the sea maiden. "Let not that put you in any trouble," said theson. "I will not oppose you." "You shall not. you shall not go, my son,though I never get fish any more." "If you will not let me go with you,go to the smithy, and let the smith make me a great strong sword, and Iwill go seek my fortune."His father went to the smithy, and the smith made a doughty sword forhim. His father came home with the sword. The lad grasped it and gaveit a shake or two, and it flew into a hundred splinters. He asked hisfather to go to the smithy and get him another sword in which thereshould be twice as much weight. and so his father did, and so likewiseit happened to the next sword it broke in two halves. Back went theold man to the smithy. and the smith made a great sword, its like henever made before. "There's thy sword for thee," said the smith, "andthe fist must be good that plays this blade." The old man gave thesword to his son. he gave it a shake or two. "This will do," said he."it's high time now to travel on my way."On the next morning he put a saddle on a black horse that his fatherhad, and he took the world for his pillow. When he went on a bit, hefell in with the carcass of a sheep beside the road. And there were agreat black dog, a falcon, and an otter, and they were quarrelling overthe spoil. So they asked him to divide it for them. He came down offthe horse, and he divided the carcass amongst the three. Three sharesto the dog, two shares to the otter, and a share to the falcon. "Forthis," said the dog, "if swiftness of foot or sharpness of tooth willgive thee aid, mind me, and I will be at thy side." Said the otter, "Ifthe swimming of foot on the ground of a pool will loose thee, mind me,and I will be at thy side." Said the falcon, "If hardship comes onthee, where swiftness of wing or crook of a claw will do good, mind me,and I will be at thy side."On this he went onward till he reached a king's house, and he tookservice to be a herd, and his wages were to be according to the milk ofthe cattle. He went away with the cattle, and the grazing was but bare.In the evening when he took them home they had not much milk, the placewas so bare, and his meat and drink was but spare that night.On the next day he went on further with them. and at last he came to aplace exceedingly grassy, in a green glen, of which he never saw thelike.But about the time when he should drive the cattle homewards, whoshould he see coming but a great giant with his sword in his hand? "HI!HO!! HOGARACH!!!" says the giant. "Those cattle are mine. they are onmy land, and a dead man art thou." "I say not that," says the herd."there is no knowing, but that may be easier to say than to do."He drew the great clean sweeping sword, and he neared the giant. Theherd drew back his sword, and the head was off the giant in atwinkling. He leaped on the black horse, and he went to look for thegiant's house. In went the herd, and that's the place where there wasmoney in plenty, and dresses of each kind in the wardrobe with gold andsilver, and each thing finer than the other. At the mouth of night hetook himself to the king's house, but he took not a thing from thegiant's house. And when the cattle were milked this night there _was_milk. He got good feeding this night, meat and drink without stint, andthe king was hugely pleased that he had caught such a herd. He went onfor a time in this way, but at last the glen grew bare of grass, andthe grazing was not so good.So he thought he would go a little further forward in on the giant'sland. and he sees a great park of grass. He returned for the cattle,and he put them into the park.They were but a short time grazing in the park when a great wild giantcame full of rage and madness. "HI! HAW!! HOGARAICH!!!" said the giant."It is a drink of thy blood that will quench my thirst this night.""There is no knowing," said the herd, "but that's easier to say than todo." And at each other went the men. _There_ was shaking of blades! Atlength and at last it seemed as if the giant would get the victory overthe herd. Then he called on the dog, and with one spring the black dogcaught the giant by the neck, and swiftly the herd struck off his head.He went home very tired this night, but it's a wonder if the king'scattle had not milk. The whole family was delighted that they had gotsuch a herd.Next day he betakes himself to the castle. When he reached the door, alittle flattering carlin met him standing in the door. "All hail andgood luck to thee, fisher's son. 'tis I myself am pleased to see thee.great is the honour for this kingdom, for thy like to be come intoit thy coming in is fame for this little bothy. go in first. honour tothe gentles. go on, and take breath.""In before me, thou crone. I like not flattery out of doors. go in andlet's hear thy speech." In went the crone, and when her back was to himhe drew his sword and whips her head off. but the sword flew out of hishand. And swift the crone gripped her head with both hands, and puts iton her neck as it was before. The dog sprung on the crone, and shestruck the generous dog with the club of magic. and there he lay. Butthe herd struggled for a hold of the club of magic, and with one blowon the top of the head she was on earth in the twinkling of an eye. Hewent forward, up a little, and there was spoil! Gold and silver, andeach thing more precious than another, in the crone's castle. He wentback to the king's house, and then there was rejoicing.He followed herding in this way for a time. but one night after he camehome, instead of getting "All hail" and "Good luck" from the dairymaid,all were at crying and woe.He asked what cause of woe there was that night. The dairymaid said"There is a great beast with three heads in the loch, and it must getsome one every year, and the lot had come this year on the king'sdaughter, and at midday to morrow she is to meet the Laidly Beast atthe upper end of the loch, but there is a great suitor yonder who isgoing to rescue her.""What suitor is that?" said the herd. "Oh, he is a great General ofarms," said the dairymaid, "and when he kills the beast, he will marrythe king's daughter, for the king has said that he who could save hisdaughter should get her to marry."But on the morrow, when the time grew near, the king's daughter andthis hero of arms went to give a meeting to the beast, and they reachedthe black rock, at the upper end of the loch. They were but a shorttime there when the beast stirred in the midst of the loch. but whenthe General saw this terror of a beast with three heads, he tookfright, and he slunk away, and he hid himself. And the king's daughterwas under fear and under trembling, with no one at all to save her.Suddenly she sees a doughty handsome youth, riding a black horse, andcoming where she was. He was marvellously arrayed and full armed, andhis black dog moved after him. "There is gloom on your face, girl,"said the youth. "what do you here?""Oh! that's no matter," said the king's daughter. "It's not long I'llbe here, at all events.""I say not that," said he."A champion fled as likely as you, and not long since," said she."He is a champion who stands the war," said the youth. And to meet thebeast he went with his sword and his dog. But there was a splutteringand a splashing between himself and the beast! The dog kept doing allhe might, and the king's daughter was palsied by fear of the noise ofthe beast! One of them would now be under, and now above. But at lasthe cut one of the heads off it. It gave one roar, and the son of earth,echo of the rocks, called to its screech, and it drove the loch inspindrift from end to end, and in a twinkling it went out of sight."Good luck and victory follow you, lad!" said the king's daughter. "Iam safe for one night, but the beast will come again and again, untilthe other two heads come off it." He caught the beast's head, and hedrew a knot through it, and he told her to bring it with her thereto morrow. She gave him a gold ring, and went home with the head on hershoulder, and the herd betook himself to the cows. But she had not gonefar when this great General saw her, and he said to her, "I will killyou if you do not say that 'twas I took the head off the beast." "Oh!"says she, "'tis I will say it. who else took the head off the beast butyou!" They reached the king's house, and the head was on the General'sshoulder. But here was rejoicing, that she should come home alive andwhole, and this great captain with the beast's head full of blood inhis hand. On the morrow they went away, and there was no question atall but that this hero would save the king's daughter.They reached the same place, and they were not long there when thefearful Laidly Beast stirred in the midst of the loch, and the heroslunk away as he did on yesterday, but it was not long after this whenthe man of the black horse came, with another dress on. No matter. sheknew that it was the very same lad. "It is I am pleased to see you,"said she. "I am in hopes you will handle your great sword to day as youdid yesterday. Come up and take breath." But they were not long therewhen they saw the beast steaming in the midst of the loch.At once he went to meet the beast, but _there_ was Cloopersteich andClaperstich, spluttering, splashing, raving, and roaring on the beast!They kept at it thus for a long time, and about the mouth of night hecut another head off the beast. He put it on the knot and gave it toher. She gave him one of her earrings, and he leaped on the blackhorse, and he betook himself to the herding. The king's daughter wenthome with the heads. The General met her, and took the heads from her,and he said to her, that she must tell that it was he who took the headoff the beast this time also. "Who else took the head off the beast butyou?" said she. They reached the king's house with the heads. Thenthere was joy and gladness.About the same time on the morrow, the two went away. The officer hidhimself as he usually did. The king's daughter betook herself to thebank of the loch. The hero of the black horse came, and if roaring andraving were on the beast on the days that were passed, this day it washorrible. But no matter, he took the third head off the beast, and drewit through the knot, and gave it to her. She gave him her otherearring, and then she went home with the heads. When they reached theking's house, all were full of smiles, and the General was to marry theking's daughter the next day. The wedding was going on, and every oneabout the castle longing till the priest should come. But when thepriest came, she would marry only the one who could take the heads offthe knot without cutting it. "Who should take the heads off the knotbut the man that put the heads on?" said the king.The General tried them. but he could not loose them. and at last therewas no one about the house but had tried to take the heads off theknot, but they could not. The king asked if there were any one elseabout the house that would try to take the heads off the knot. Theysaid that the herd had not tried them yet. Word went for the herd. andhe was not long throwing them hither and thither. "But stop a bit, mylad," said the king's daughter. "the man that took the heads off thebeast, he has my ring and my two earrings." The herd put his hand inhis pocket, and he threw them on the board. "Thou art my man," said theking's daughter. The king was not so pleased when he saw that it was aherd who was to marry his daughter, but he ordered that he should beput in a better dress. but his daughter spoke, and she said that he hada dress as fine as any that ever was in his castle. and thus ithappened. The herd put on the giant's golden dress, and they marriedthat same day.They were now married, and everything went on well. But one day, and itwas the namesake of the day when his father had promised him to thesea maiden, they were sauntering by the side of the loch, and lo andbehold! she came and took him away to the loch without leave or asking.The king's daughter was now mournful, tearful, blind sorrowful for hermarried man. she was always with her eye on the loch. An old soothsayermet her, and she told how it had befallen her married mate. Then hetold her the thing to do to save her mate, and that she did.She took her harp to the sea shore, and sat and played. and thesea maiden came up to listen, for sea maidens are fonder of music thanall other creatures. But when the wife saw the sea maiden she stopped.The sea maiden said, "Play on!" but the princess said, "No, not till Isee my man again." So the sea maiden put up his head out of the loch.Then the princess played again, and stopped till the sea maiden put himup to the waist. Then the princess played and stopped again, and thistime the sea maiden put him all out of the loch, and he called on thefalcon and became one and flew on shore. But the sea maiden took theprincess, his wife.Sorrowful was each one that was in the town on this night. Her man wasmournful, tearful, wandering down and up about the banks of the loch,by day and night. The old soothsayer met him. The soothsayer told himthat there was no way of killing the sea maiden but the one way, andthis is it "In the island that is in the midst of the loch is thewhite footed hind of the slenderest legs and the swiftest step, andthough she be caught, there will spring a hoodie out of her, and thoughthe hoodie should be caught, there will spring a trout out of her, butthere is an egg in the mouth of the trout, and the soul of thesea maiden is in the egg, and if the egg breaks, she is dead."Now, there was no way of getting to this island, for the sea maidenwould sink each boat and raft that would go on the loch. He thought hewould try to leap the strait with the black horse, and even so he did.The black horse leaped the strait. He saw the hind, and he let theblack dog after her, but when he was on one side of the island, thehind would be on the other side. "Oh! would the black dog of thecarcass of flesh were here!" No sooner spoke he the word than thegrateful dog was at his side. and after the hind he went, and they werenot long in bringing her to earth. But he no sooner caught her than ahoodie sprang out of her. "Would that the falcon grey, of sharpest eyeand swiftest wing, were here!" No sooner said he this than the falconwas after the hoodie, and she was not long putting her to earth. and asthe hoodie fell on the bank of the loch, out of her jumps the trout."Oh! that thou wert by me now, oh otter!" No sooner said than the otterwas at his side, and out on the loch she leaped, and brings the troutfrom the midst of the loch. but no sooner was the otter on shore withthe trout than the egg came from his mouth. He sprang and he put hisfoot on it. 'Twas then the sea maiden appeared, and she said, "Breaknot the egg, and you shall get all you ask." "Deliver to me my wife!"In the wink of an eye she was by his side. When he got hold of her handin both his hands, he let his foot down on the egg, and the sea maidendied.