Know, O King of the age, that what hath happened to me is more wonderfulthan the events which have happened to all the others. Before I met thehumpback, I was, early in the morning, at an entertainment given tocertain tradesmen of my acquaintance, consisting of tailors andlinen drapers and carpenters and others. and when the sun had risen, therepast was brought for us to eat. and lo, the master of the house camein to us, accompanied by a strange and handsome young man, of theinhabitants of Baghdad. He was attired in clothes of the handsomestdescription, and was a most comely person, except that he was lame. andas soon as he had entered and saluted us, we rose to him. but when hewas about to seat himself, he observed among us a man who was a barber,whereupon he refused to sit down, and desired to depart from us. We andthe master of the house, however, prevented him, and urged him to seathimself. and the host conjured him, saying, What is the reason of thyentering, and then immediately departing? By Allah, O my master,replied he, offer me no opposition. for the cause of my departure isthis barber, who is sitting with you. And when the host heard this, hewas exceedingly surprised, and said, How is it that the heart of thisyoung man, who is from Baghdad, is troubled by the presence of thisbarber? We then looked towards him, and said, Relate to us the cause ofthy displeasure against this barber. and the young man replied, Ocompany, a surprising adventure happened to me with this barber inBaghdad, my city. and he was the cause of my lameness, and of thebreaking of my leg. and I have sworn that I will not sit in any placewhere he is present, nor dwell in any town where he resides: I quittedBaghdad and took up my abode in this city, and I will not pass the nextnight without departing from it. Upon this, we said to him, We conjurethee, by Allah, to relate to us thy adventure with him. And thecountenance of the barber turned pale when he heard us make thisrequest. The young man then said, Know, O good people, that my father was one of the chief merchants ofBaghdad. and God (whose name be exalted!) blessed him with no son butmyself. and when I grew up, and had attained to manhood, my father wasadmitted to the mercy of God, leaving me wealth and servants and otherdependants. whereupon I began to attire myself in clothes of thehandsomest description, and to feed upon the most delicious meats. NowGod (whose perfection be extolled!) made me to be a hater of women. andso I continued, until, one day, I was walking through the streets ofBaghdad, when a party of them stopped my way: I therefore fled fromthem, and, entering a by street which was not a thoroughfare, I reclinedupon a maabah at its further extremity. Here I had been seated but ashort time when, lo, a window opposite the place where I sat was opened,and there looked out from it a damsel like the full moon, such as I hadnever in my life beheld. She had some flowers, which she was watering,beneath the window. and she looked to the right and left, and then shutthe window, and disappeared from before me. Fire had been shot into myheart, and my mind was absorbed by her. my hatred of women was turnedinto love, and I continued sitting in the same place until sunset, in astate of distraction from the violence of my passion, when, lo, theaee of the city came riding along, with slaves before him and servantsbehind him, and alighted, and entered the house from which the damselhad looked out: so I knew that he must be her father.I then returned to my house, sorrowful. and fell upon my bed, full ofanxious thoughts. and my female slaves came in to me, and seatedthemselves around me, not knowing what was the matter with me. and Iacquainted them not with my case, nor returned any answers to theirquestions. and my disorder increased. The neighbours, therefore, cameto cheer me with their visits. and among those who visited me was an oldwoman, who, as soon as she saw me, discovered my state. whereupon sheseated herself at my head, and, addressing me in a kind manner, said, Omy son, tell me what hath happened to thee? So I related to her mystory, and she said, O my son, this is the daughter of the aee ofBaghdad, and she is kept in close confinement: the place where thousawest her is her apartment, and her father occupies a large saloonbelow, leaving her alone. and often do I visit her: thou canst obtain aninterview with her only through me: so brace up thy nerves. When Iheard, therefore, what she said, I took courage, and fortified my heart.and my family rejoiced that day. I rose up firm in limb, and hoping forcomplete restoration. and the old woman departed. but she returned withher countenance changed, and said, O my son, ask not what she did when Itold her of thy case. for she said, If thou abstain not, O ill omenedold woman, from this discourse, I will treat thee as thoudeservest: but I must go to her a second time.On hearing this, my disorder increased: after some days, however, theold woman came again, and said, O my son, I desire of thee a reward forgood tidings. My soul returned to my body at these words, and I replied,Thou shalt receive from me everything that thou canst wish. She thensaid, I went yesterday to the damsel, and when she beheld me with brokenheart and weeping eye, she said to me, O my aunt, wherefore do I seethee with contracted heart? and when she had thus said, I wept, andanswered, O my daughter and mistress, I came to thee yesterday fromvisiting a youth who loveth thee, and he is at the point of death on thyaccount: and, her heart being moved with compassion, she asked, Who isthis youth of whom thou speakest? I answered, He is my son, and thechild that is dear to my soul: he saw thee at the window some days ago,while thou wast watering thy flowers. and when he beheld thy face, hebecame distracted with love for thee: I informed him of the conversationthat I had with thee the first time. upon which his disorder increased,and he took to his pillow: he is now dying, and there is no doubt of hisfate. And upon this, her countenance became pale, and she said, Is thisall on my account? Yea, by Allah, I answered. and what dost thou orderme to do? Go to him, said she. convey to him my salutation, and tellhim that my love is greater than his. and on Friday next, before thecongregational prayers, let him come hither: I will give orders to openthe door to him, and to bring him up to me, and I will have a shortinterview with him, and he shall return before my father comes back fromthe prayers.When I heard these words of the old woman, the anguish which I hadsuffered ceased. my heart was set at rest, and I gave her the suit ofclothes which I was then wearing, and she departed, saying to me, Cheerup thy heart. I replied, I have no longer any pain. The people of myhouse, and my friends, communicated, one to another, the good news of myrestoration to health, and I remained thus until the Friday, when theold woman came in to me, and asked me respecting my state: so I informedher that I was happy and well. I then dressed and perfumed myself, andsat waiting for the people to go to prayers, that I might repair to thedamsel. but the old woman said to me, Thou hast yet more than ampletime, and if thou go to the bath and shave, especially for the sake ofobliterating the traces of thy disorder, it will be more becoming. Itis a judicious piece of advice, replied I. but I will shave my headfirst, and then go into the bath.So I sent for a barber to shave my head, saying to the boy, Go to themarket, and bring me a barber, one who is a man of sense, littleinclined to impertinence, that he may not make my head ache by hischattering. And the boy went, and brought this sheykh, who, on entering,saluted me. and when I had returned his salutation, he said to me, MayGod dispel thy grief and thine anxiety, and misfortunes and sorrows! Iresponded, May God accept thy prayer! He then said, Be cheerful, O mymaster, for health hath returned to thee. Dost thou desire to be shavedor to be bled? for it hath been handed down, on the authority ofIbn 'Abbas, that the Prophet said, Whoso shorteneth his hairon Friday, God will avert from him seventy diseases. and it hath beenhanded down also, on the same authority, that the Prophet said, Whoso iscupped on Friday will not be secure from the loss of sight and fromfrequent disease. Abstain, said I, from this useless discourse, andcome immediately, shave my head, for I am weak. And he arose, and,stretching forth his hand, took out a handkerchief, and opened it. andlo, there was in it an astrolabe, consisting of seven plates.and he took it, and went into the middle of the court, where he raisedhis head towards the sun, and looked for a considerable time. afterwhich he said to me, Know that there have passed, of this our day, whichis Friday, and which is the tenth of afar, of the year263 of the Flight of the Prophet, upon whom be the mostexcellent of blessings and peace! and the ascendant star of which,according to the required rules of the science of computation, is theplanet Mars, seven degrees and six minutes. and it happeneththat Mercury hath come in conjunction with that planet. and thisindicateth that the shaving of hair is now a most excellent operation:and it hath indicated to me, also, that thou desirest to confer abenefit upon a person: and fortunate is he! but after that, there is anannouncement that presenteth itself to me respecting a matter which Iwill not mention to thee.By Allah, I exclaimed, thou hast wearied me, and dissipated my mind, andaugured against me, when I required thee only to shave my head: arise,then, and shave it. and prolong not thy discourse to me. But he replied,By Allah, if thou knewest the truth of the case, thou wouldst demand ofme a further explication. and I counsel thee to do this day as I directthee, according to the calculations deduced from the stars: it is thyduty to praise God, and not to oppose me. for I am one who giveth theegood advice, and who regardeth thee with compassion: I would that I werein thy service for a whole year, that thou mightest do me justice. and Idesire not any pay from thee for so doing. When I heard this, I said tohim, Verily thou art killing me this day, and there is no escape forme. O my master, he replied, I am he whom the people callE amit, on account of the paucity of my speech, by which Iam distinguished above my brothers. for my eldest brother is namedEl Baboo. and the second, El Heddar. and the third, Baba.and the fourth is named El Kooz el Awanee. and the fifth, El Feshshar.and the sixth is named Shaali. and the seventh brother is namedE amit. and he is myself.Now when this barber thus overwhelmed me with his talk, I felt as if mygall bladder had burst, and said to the boy, Give him a quarter of apiece of gold, and let him depart from me for the sake of Allah: for Ihave no need to shave my head. But the barber on hearing what I said tothe boy, exclaimed, What is this that thou hast said, O my lord? ByAllah, I will accept from thee no pay unless I serve thee. and servethee I must. for to do so is incumbent on me, and to perform what thourequirest. and I care not if I receive from thee no money. If thouknowest not my worth, I know thine. and thy father may Allah have mercyupon him! treated us with beneficence. for he was a man of generosity.By Allah, thy father sent for me one day, like this blessed day, andwhen I went to him, he had a number of his friends with him, and he saidto me, Take some blood from me. So I took the astrolabe, and observedthe altitude for him, and found the ascendant of the hour to be of evilomen, and that the letting of blood would be attended with trouble: Itherefore acquainted him with this, and he conformed to my wish, andwaited until the arrival of the approved hour, when I took the bloodfrom him. He did not oppose me. but, on the contrary, thanked me. and inlike manner all the company present thanked me. and thy father gave mea hundred pieces of gold for services similar to the letting ofblood. May God, said I, shew no mercy to my father for knowing such aman as thou! and the barber laughed, and exclaimed, There is no deitybut God! Moammad is God's Apostle! Extolled be the perfection of Himwho changeth others, but is not changed! I did not imagine thee to beotherwise than a man of sense. but thou hast talked nonsense inconsequence of thine illness. God hath mentioned, in his Excellent Book,those who restrain their anger, and who forgive men: butthou art excused in every case. I am unacquainted, however, with thecause of thy haste. and thou knowest that thy father used to do nothingwithout consulting me. and it hath been said, that the person to whomone applies for advice should be trusted: now thou wilt find no onebetter acquainted with the affairs of the world than myself, and I amstanding on my feet to serve thee. I am not displeased with thee, andhow then art thou displeased with me? But I will have patience with theeon account of the favours which I have received from thy father. ByAllah, said I, thou hast wearied me with thy discourse, and overcome mewith thy speech! I desire that thou shave my head and depart from me.I gave vent to my rage. and would have risen, even if he had wetted myhead, when he said, I knew that displeasure with me had overcome thee.but I will not be angry with thee, for thy sense is weak, and thou art ayouth: a short time ago I used to carry thee on my shoulder,and take thee to the school. Upon this, I said to him, O my brother, Iconjure thee by Allah, depart from me that I may perform my business,and go thou thy way. Then I rent my clothes. and when he saw me do this,he took the razor, and sharpened it, and continued to do so until mysoul almost parted from my body. then advancing to my head, he shaved asmall portion of it. after which he raised his hand, and said, O mylord, haste is from the Devil. and he repeated this couplet: Deliberate, and haste not to accomplish thy desire. and be merciful,so shalt thou meet with one merciful:For there is no hand but God's hand is above it. noroppressor that shall not meet with an oppressor.O my lord (he then continued), I do not imagine that thou knowest mycondition in society. for my hand lighteth upon the heads of kings andemeers and wezeers and sages and learned men. and of such a one asmyself hath the poet said, The trades altogether are like a necklace, and this barber isthe chief pearl of the strings.He excelleth all that are endowed with skill, and under his handsare the heads of Kings. Leave, said I, that which doth not concern thee! Thou hast contractedmy heart, and troubled my mind. I fancy that thou art in haste, herejoined. I replied, Yes! Yes! Yes! Proceed slowly, said he. for verilyhaste is from the Devil, and it giveth occasion to repentance anddisappointment. and he upon whom be blessing and peace hathsaid, The best of affairs is that which is commenced withdeliberation: and, by Allah, I am in doubt as to thine affair: I wish,therefore, that thou wouldst make known to me what thou art hasting todo. and may it be good. for I fear it is otherwise.There now remained, to the appointed time, three hours. and he threw therazor from his hand in anger, and, taking the astrolabe, went again toobserve the sun. then after he had waited a long time, he returned,saying, There remain, to the hour of prayer, three hours, neither morenor less. For the sake of Allah, said I, be silent. for thou hastcrumbled my liver! and thereupon, he took the razor, and sharpened itas he had done the first time, and shaved another portion of my head.Then stopping again, he said, I am in anxiety on account of thy hurry:if thou wouldst acquaint me with the cause of it, it would be better forthee. for thou knowest that thy father used to do nothing withoutconsulting me.I perceived now that I could not avoid his importunity, and said withinmyself, The time of prayer is almost come, and I desire to go before thepeople come out from the service: if I delay a little longer, I know nothow to gain admission to her. I therefore said to him, Be quick, andcease from this chattering and impertinence. for I desire to repair toan entertainment with my friends. But when he heard the mention of theentertainment, he exclaimed, The day is a blessed day for me! Iyesterday conjured a party of my intimate friends to come and feast withme, and forgot to prepare for them anything to eat. and now I haveremembered it. Alas for the disgrace that I shall experience fromthem! So I said to him, Be in no anxiety on this account, since thouhast been told that I am going to day to an entertainment. for all thefood and drink that is in my house shall be thine if thou use expeditionin my affair, and quickly finish shaving my head. May God recompensethee with every blessing! he replied: describe to me what thou hast formy guests, that I may know it. I have, said I, five dishes of meat, andten fowls fricandoed, and a roasted lamb. Cause them to be broughtbefore me, he said, that I may see them. So I had them brought to him,and he exclaimed, Divinely art thou gifted! How generous is thy soul!But the incense and perfumes are wanting. I brought him, therefore, abox containing nedd and aloes wood and ambergris and musk,worth fifty pieces of gold. The time had now become contracted, like myown heart. so I said to him, Receive this, and shave the whole of myhead, by the existence of Moammad, God bless and save him! But hereplied, By Allah, I will not take it until I see all that itcontains. I therefore ordered the boy, and he opened the box to him.whereupon the barber threw down the astrolabe from his hand, and,seating himself upon the ground, turned over the perfumes and incenseand aloes wood in the box until my soul almost quitted my body.He then advanced, and took the razor, and shaved another small portionof my head. after which he said, By Allah, O my son, I know not whetherI should thank thee or thank thy father. for my entertainment to day isentirely derived from thy bounty and kindness, and I have no one amongmy visiters deserving of it. for my guests are, Zeytoon the bath keeper,and aleea the wheat seller, and 'Owkal the bean seller, and 'Akreshehthe grocer, and omeyd the dustman, and 'Akarish the milk seller, andeach of these hath a peculiar dance which he performeth, and peculiarverses which he reciteth. and the best of their qualities is, that theyare like thy servant, the memlook who is before thee. and I, thy slave,know neither loquacity nor impertinence. As to the bath keeper, hesaith, If I go not to the feast, it cometh to my house! and as to thedustman, he is witty, and full of frolick: often doth he dance, and say,News, with my wife, is not kept in a chest! and each of my friends hathjests that another hath not: but the description is not like the actualobservation. If thou choose, therefore, to come to us, it will be morepleasant both to thee and to us: relinquish, then, thy visit to thyfriends of whom thou hast told us that thou desirest to go to them. forthe traces of disease are yet upon thee, and probably thou art going toa people of many words, who will talk of that which concerneth them not.or probably there will be among them one impertinent person. and thysoul is already disquieted by disease. I replied, If it be the will ofGod, that shall be on some other day: but he said, It will be moreproper that thou first join my party of friends, that thou mayest enjoytheir conviviality, and delight thyself with their salt. Act inaccordance with the saying of the poet: Defer not a pleasure when it can be had. for fortune often destroyethour plans.Upon this I laughed from a heart laden with anger, and said to him, Dowhat I require, that I may go in the care of God, whose name be exalted!and do thou go to thy friends, for they are waiting thine arrival. Hereplied, I desire nothing but to introduce thee into the society ofthese people. for verily they are of the sons of that class among whichis no impertinent person. and if thou didst but behold them once, thouwouldst leave all thine own companions. May God, said I, give theeabundant joy with them, and I must bring them together here someday. If that be thy wish, he rejoined, and thou wilt first attend theentertainment of thy friends this day, wait until I take this presentwith which thou hast honoured me, and place it before my friends, thatthey may eat and drink without waiting for me, and then I will return tothee, and go with thee to thy companions. for there is no false delicacybetween me and my companions that should prevent my leaving them: so Iwill return to thee quickly, and repair with thee whithersoever thougoest. Upon this I exclaimed, There is no strength nor power but inGod, the High, the Great! Go thou to thy companions, and delight thyheart with them, and leave me to repair to mine, and to remain with themthis day, for they are waiting my arrival. But he said, I will notleave thee to go alone. The place to which I am going, said I, none canenter except myself. I suppose then, he rejoined, that thou hast anappointment to day with some female: otherwise, thou wouldst take mewith thee. for I am more deserving than all other men, and will assistthee to attain what thou desirest. I fear that thou art going to visitsome strange woman, and that thy life will be lost. for in this city ofBaghdad no one can do anything of this kind, especially on such a dayas this. seeing that the Walee of Baghdad is a terrible, sharpsword. Wo to thee, O wicked old man! I exclaimed, what are these wordswith which thou addressest me? And upon this, he kept a long silence.The time of prayer had now arrived, and the time of theKhubeh was near, when he had finished shaving my head: so Isaid to him, Go with this food and drink to thy friends, and I will waitfor thee until thou return, and thou shalt accompany me: and Icontinued my endeavours to deceive him, that he might go away. but hesaid to me, Verily thou art deceiving me, and wilt go alone, andprecipitate thyself into a calamity from which there will be no escapefor thee: by Allah! by Allah! then, quit not this spot until I return tothee and accompany thee, that I may know what will be the result ofthine affair. I replied, Well: prolong not thine absence from me. Andhe took the food and drink and other things which I had given him, butintrusted them to a porter to convey them to his abode, and concealedhimself in one of the by streets. I then immediately arose. The mueddinson the menarehs had chanted the Selam of Friday. and I put onmy clothes, and went forth alone, and, arriving at the by street,stopped at the door of the house where I had seen the damsel: and lo,the barber was behind me, and I knew it not. I found the door open, andentered. and immediately the master of the house returned from theprayers, and entered the saloon, and closed the door. and I said withinmyself, How did this devil discover me?Now it happened, just at this time, for the fulfilment of God's purposeto rend the veil of protection before me, that a female slave belongingto the master of the house committed some offence, in consequence ofwhich he beat her, and she cried out. whereupon a male slave came in tohim to liberate her. but he beat him also, and he likewise cried out.and the barber concluded that he was beating me. so he cried, and renthis clothes, and sprinkled dust upon his head, shrieking, and callingfor assistance. He was surrounded by people, and said to them, My masterhath been killed in the house of the aee! Then running to my house,crying out all the while, and with a crowd behind him, he gave the newsto my family. and I knew not what he had done when they approached,crying, Alas for our master! the barber all the while being beforethem, with his clothes rent, and a number of the people of the city withthem. They continued shrieking, the barber shrieking at their head, andall of them exclaiming, Alas for our slain! Thus they advanced to thehouse in which I was confined. and when the aee heard of thisoccurrence, the event troubled him, and he arose, and opened the door,and seeing a great crowd, he was confounded, and said, O people, what isthe news? The servants replied, Thou hast killed our master. O people,rejoined he, what hath your master done unto me that I should kill him.and wherefore do I see this barber before you? Thou hast just nowbeaten him with mira'ahs, said the barber. and I heard his cries. Whathath he done that I should kill him? repeated the aee. And whence, headded, came he. and whither would he go? Be not an old man ofmalevolence, exclaimed the barber. for I know the story, and the reasonof his entering thy house, and the truth of the whole affair: thydaughter is in love with him, and he is in love with her. and thou hastdiscovered that he had entered thy house, and hast ordered thy youngmen, and they have beaten him. By Allah, none shall decide between usand thee except the Khaleefeh. or thou shalt bring forth to us ourmaster that his family may take him. and oblige me not to enter and takehim forth from you: haste then thyself to produce him.Upon this, the aee was withheld from speaking, and became utterlyabashed before the people: but presently he said to the barber, If thouspeak truth, enter thyself, and bring him forth. So the barber advanced,and entered the house. and when I saw him do so, I sought for a way toescape. but I found no place of refuge except a large chest which Iobserved in the same apartment in which I then was: I therefore enteredthis, and shut down the lid, and held in my breath. Immediately after,the barber ran into the saloon, and, without looking in any otherdirection than that in which I had concealed myself, came thither: thenturning his eyes to the right and left, and seeing nothing but thechest, he raised it upon his head. whereupon my reason forsook me. Hequickly descended with it. and I, being now certain that he would notquit me, opened the chest, and threw myself upon the ground. My leg wasbroken by the fall. and when I came to the door of the house, I found amultitude of people: I had never seen such a crowd as was therecollected on that day. so I began to scatter gold among them, to divertthem. and while they were busied in picking it up, I hastened throughthe by streets of Baghdad, followed by this barber. and wherever Ientered, he entered after me, crying, They would have plunged me intoaffliction on account of my master! Praise be to God who aided meagainst them, and delivered my master from their hands! Thoucontinuedst, O my master, to be excited by haste for the accomplishmentof thine evil design until thou broughtest upon thyself this event. andif God had not blessed thee with me, thou hadst not escaped from thiscalamity into which thou hast fallen. and they might have involved theein a calamity from which thou wouldst never have escaped. Beg,therefore, of God, that I may live for thy sake, to liberate thee infuture. By Allah, thou hast almost destroyed me by thine evil design,desiring to go alone: but we will not be angry with thee for thineignorance, for thou art endowed with little sense, and of a hastydisposition. Art thou not satisfied, replied I, with that which thouhast done, but wilt thou run after me through the market streets? And Idesired for death to liberate me from him. but found it not. and in theexcess of my rage I ran from him, and, entering a shop in the midst ofthe market, implored the protection of its owner. and he drove away thebarber from me.I then seated myself in a magazine belonging to him, and said withinmyself, I cannot now rid myself of this barber. but he will be with menight and day, and I cannot endure the sight of his face. So Iimmediately summoned witnesses, and wrote a document, dividing myproperty among my family, and appointing a guardian over them, and Iordered him to sell the house and all the immoveable possessions,charging him with the care of the old and young, and set forth at onceon a journey in order to escape from this wretch. I then arrived in yourcountry, where I took up my abode, and have remained a considerabletime. and when ye invited me, and I came unto you, I saw this vilewretch among you, seated at the upper end of the room. How, then, can myheart be at ease, or my sitting in your company be pleasant to me, withthis fellow, who hath brought these events upon me, and been the causeof the breaking of my leg?The young man still persevered in his refusal to remain with us. andwhen we had heard his story, we said to the barber, Is this true whichthe young man hath said of thee? By Allah, he answered, it was throughmy intelligence that I acted thus towards him. and had I not done so, hehad perished: myself only was the cause of his escape. and it wasthrough the goodness of God, by my means, that he was afflicted by thebreaking of his leg instead of being punished by the loss of his life.Were I a person of many words, I had not done him this kindness. and nowI will relate to you an event that happened to me, that ye may believeme to be a man of few words, and less of an impertinent than mybrothers. and it was this: 