In the days of long ago, when Persia was a famous and beautiful land,with innumerable rose gardens that perfumed the whole country andgorgeous palaces, there lived a king, named Hormuz. He was a cruelmonarch, this Shah of Persia. He tyrannized over his people and neverallowed them to live in peace. Above all, he hated the Jews."These descendants of Abraham," he said to his grand vizier, "neverknow when they are beaten. How many times it has been reported to methat they have been wiped out of existence, or driven from the land, Iknow not. Yet nothing, it seems, can crush their spirit. Tell me, whyis this?""It is because they have a firm faith in their future," answered thevizier."What mean you by those words?" demanded the king, angrily."I speak only of what I have heard from their wise men," the vizierreplied, hastily. "They hold the belief that they will be restored asa united people to their own land.""Under their own king?" interrupted Hormuz."Under a descendant of the royal House of David," the vizier answered,solemnly.The king stamped his foot with rage."How dare they think of any other Shah but me," he exclaimed, for hisone idea of ruling over people was that he had every right to be cruelto them. Then he said suddenly, "Think you that if there were no morepeople who could trace their ancestry to this this David, their faithwould be shattered?""Peradventure, it may be so.""It shall be so," cried the king. "There shall be no remnants of thisHouse of David."He summoned his executioners, and when they were lined up before him,he surveyed the evil looking band with a cunning gleam in his eye."Unto you," he said, in a rasping voice, "I hand over all thedescendants of the House of David to be found among the Jews in thewhole of the realm of Persia. Slay them instantly. See to it that nota single one man, woman, or child is left alive. Woe betide you, andyou my counselors" this with a meaning glance at the grandvizier "if my commands are not carried out to the letter. To yourduties. Ye are dismissed from the presence."Waving them away, he indulged his fancy in thoughts of the comingexecutions, chuckling the while.From day to day he received reports that his commands were beingcarried out. The land was filled with weeping, for the cruel butcherywas worse than war. None could defend themselves. Mere suspicion wasenough for the executioners. They wasted no time with doubts, but slewall who were said to belong to the House of David. The Shah lookedover the list each night and chuckled. At last he was informed thatall had been slaughtered."'Tis well, 'tis well," he said, rubbing his hands, gleefully, "Ishall sleep in peace tonight."He slept in a bower in a rose garden, and nowhere in the world are theroses so magnificent and so sweet scented as in Persia."I shall have pleasant dreams," he muttered, but instead he had anightmare that frightened him terribly.He dreamed that he was walking in his rose garden, but instead ofderiving pleasure from the beautiful trees, he was only angered."Are there no white, or yellow, or pink roses?" he asked, but receivedno answer. "All red, deep, deep red," he muttered, in his troubledmanner."Tell me," he demanded fiercely, stopping before a tree heavily ladenwith flowers, "why are you so red today?"And the roses spoke and replied, "Because of the innocent blood thathas been shed. It is royal blood that has drenched the ground, andnone but crimson roses shall bloom this year in Persia.""Bah!" screamed the enraged Shah and, drawing his scimitar, he beganhacking right and left among the flowers. The beautiful blooms fell tothe ground in great showers until the garden was so littered with thered petals that it seemed flooded with a pool of blood. At last onlyone tree remained, and as the Shah raised his sword to cut it down, anold man stepped from behind it and confronted the king."Who art thou, and whence camest thou?" the monarch asked fiercely.No answer did the old man make. Gazing sternly into the eyes of theShah, he raised his hand suddenly and unexpectedly, and struck theking such a violent blow that he fell sprawling to the ground. He layhalf stunned among the red petals, looking up at the old man."Art thou not satisfied with the destruction thou hast wrought?" theold man asked. "Must thou take the life of the last rose tree?"The old man stooped to pick up the scimitar which had fallen from theking's grasp."No, no," screamed Hormuz, fearing that he was to be slain. Hescrambled to his knees and with clasped hands pleaded to the old man."Take not my life," he begged. "Spare me, and I shall spare the lasttree and cherish it tenderly.""So be it," said the old man, holding the sword above his head. Itdropped to the ground, and looking up, Hormuz saw that the strangerhad vanished.The Shah awoke. His body trembled with fear, his head was wracked by aburning pain. He looked round shudderingly to see if the angry old manstill stood above him with the threatening sword. Then he sent for hiswizards."Expound to me my horrid dream," he said.Their interpretations, however, did not please him."Ye are fools," he cried. "Make search and find me a man of wisdom whounderstands these mysteries. Seek a sage among the Jews."The royal servants hastened to do the king's bidding. Full well theyknew that when Hormuz was in a rage, lives were quickly forfeit.They seized the aged rabbi of the city and brought him before theShah."Canst thou interpret dreams?" asked the king, abruptly, dispensingwith the usual ceremonies."I can explain the meaning of certain things," returned the rabbi."Then fail not to unravel the mystery of my dream," said Hormuz, andhe related it. "The secret I must know," he concluded, "or  ." Buthe stopped. He was afraid to add the usual threat of death thatmorning."'Tis a simple dream," said the rabbi, slowly. "The things of whichmen and even kings are but men dream in their sleep are connectedwith the deeds performed by day. Thy garden represents the House ofDavid which thou hast sought to destroy. The old man was King Davidhimself, and thou hast promised to cherish and nurture his oneremaining descendant."The Shah listened in silence. Then, with a flash in his eye he said,"But all the descendants of this King David were slain.""All but one," said the rabbi. "There is a boy babe, born on the daythe executions ceased.""Where is he?" asked Hormuz."Your vow...." the rabbi began, nervously, for he did not wish to handover this child to death."My promise shall be faithfully carried out," interrupted the monarch."The boy is in my house," said the rabbi. "His mother, who escaped themassacre, died when he was born.""Bring him hither," commanded Hormuz. "Fear not."From his finger he drew a ring and handed it to the learned man."This is my bond," he said. "The possession of this ensures thysafety."The child was brought to the palace, and the Shah looked at him withintent gaze."He shall be brought up as a prince," said the king. "Servants,attendants and slaves shall he have in great number to minister untoall his needs. He shall be treated with the utmost kindness. Andbecause of my dream in the garden, I name him Bostanai."The Shah did this because "bostan" is the Persian word for rosegarden.He touched the child with his jeweled scepter and all present bowedlow before the babe and showed him the respect and devotion due to aprince.Hormuz, however, was too cruel to be quite satisfied. He feared toharm the boy, but he wanted some proof that Bostanai was really adescendant of King David. The child grew up into a handsome, cleveryouth, and Hormuz, partly out of fear, but partly because he hadreally grown to love the boy, kept him constantly by his side.One day, while sitting in the bower in the garden, he watched the boyamong the roses. The day was hot and a drowsiness came over the king.He had not slept in that bower since the night of his fateful dream,and he was not happy about doing so now. But he did not lack courage,and he called the boy to him."Bostanai," he said, "stand guard by the door, and move not while Isleep."Hormuz slept soundly and peacefully for some time, and when he awokehe saw the lad standing motionless where he had placed himself."Bostanai," he called, and when the boy turned, he was startled to seeblood trickling from a wound on his face."What is that?" he asked, anxiously."The sting of a wasp," Bostanai replied."Is it not painful?"For answer, the boy only smiled."How did it happen?" asked the king."The wasp stung me while I stood guard.""But couldst thou not brush it away?""No," replied the boy, proudly. "King David was my ancestor, and inthe presence of a king I must stand motionless until bidden to makeany movement."Then, before the king could catch him, he swooned from loss of blood,and fell to the ground. He soon recovered, however, and the Shah'sdoubts were set at rest."I know now thou art truly of the House of David," he said, "for noneother could have shown such fortitude."Bostanai became the Shah's favorite, and when he grew up he was madethe ruler of a province. He lived happily, and through him the Jews ofthe land also lived in prosperity and peace.(: Behind him a fierce roar indicated that the lionwas in pursuit. (_Page 176_).)