This inn of Spital on Stanmore was kept, in the year 1797, by one GeorgeAlderson. He, his wife, and son managed the business of this lonely hostelthemselves, with the help of a maid named Bella. The inn was a long,narrow building, and turned one end towards the great high road whichcrossed Stanmore on its way from York to Carlisle. The lower story of thehouse was used as stabling, for the stage coaches changed horses at theinn and brought all the last news of the day. The upper part of the solidstone building was reached by a flight of ten or twelve stone stepsleading up from the road to a stout oaken door, and the windows, deeplyrecessed in the thick walls, were strongly barred with iron.One cold October night the red curtains were drawn across the windows, anda huge log fire sputtered and crackled on the broad hearth, and lighted upthe faces of George Alderson and his son as they sat talking of theirgains at the fair of Broughton Hill. these gains, representing a large sumof money, being safely stowed away in a cupboard in the landlord'sbedroom.Mrs. Alderson and Bella sat a little way off spinning by firelight, forthe last coach had gone by and the house door was barred and bolted forthe night. Outside the wind and rain were having a battle. there camefierce gusts which made the old casements rattle and stirred the redcurtains, and then a torrent of rain swept smartly across the window,striking the glass so angrily that it seemed as if the small panes mustshatter under its violence.Into the midst of this fitful disturbance, only varied by the men's voicesbeside the hearth, there came a knock at the door."Open t' door, lass," said Alderson. "Ah wadna keep a dog out sik a neetas this.""Eh! best slacken t' chain, lass," said the more cautious landlady.The girl went to the door, but when she saw that the visitor was an oldwoman she opened the door wide and bade her come in. There entered a bentfigure dressed in a long cloak and hood. this last was drawn over herface. and, as she walked feebly to the armchair which Alderson pushedforward, the rain streamed from her clothing and made a pool on the oakenfloor. She shivered violently, but refused to take off her cloak and haveit dried. She also refused the offer of food or a bed. She said she was onher way to the north, and must start as soon as there was daylight. Allshe wanted was a rest beside the fire. She could get the sleep she neededin her armchair.The innkeeper and his wife were well used to wayfarers, and they soon said"Good night" and went to bed. so did their son. Bella was left alone withthe shivering old woman. The girl had kept silence, but now she put herwheel away in its corner and began to talk. She only got surly answers,and although the voice was low and subdued, the girl fancied that it didnot sound like a woman's. Presently the wayfarer stretched out her feet towarm them, and Bella's quick eyes saw under the hem of the skirts that thestranger wore horseman's gaiters. The girl felt uneasy, and, instead ofgoing to bed, she resolved to stay up and watch."Ah'm sleepy," she said, gaping, but the figure in the chair made noanswer. Presently Bella lay down on a long settle beyond the range of thefirelight and watched the stranger while she pretended to fall asleep.All at once the figure in the chair stirred, raised its head, andlistened. then it rose slowly to its feet, no longer bent, but tall andpowerful looking. It stood listening for some time. There was no sound butBella's heavy breathing and the wind and the rain beating on the windows.Then the woman took from the folds of her cloak a brown withered humanhand. next she produced a candle, lit it from the fire, and placed it inthe hand. Bella's heart beat so fast that she could hardly keep up theregular deep breathing of pretended sleep. but now she saw the strangercoming towards her with this ghastly chandelier, and she closed her lidstightly. She felt that the woman was bending over her, and that the lightwas passed slowly before her eyes, while these words were muttered in thestrange masculine voice that had first roused her suspicions:Let those who rest more deeply sleep.Let those awake their vigils keep.The light moved away, and through her eyelashes Bella saw that the woman'sback was turned to her, and that she was placing the hand in the middle ofthe long oak table, while she muttered this rhyme:O Hand of Glory shed thy light.Direct us to our spoil tonight.Then she moved a few steps away and undrew the window curtain. Coming backto the table she said:Flash out thy blaze, O skeleton hand,And guide the feet of our trusty band.At once the light shot up a bright livid gleam, and the woman walked tothe door. she took down the bar, drew back the bolts, unfastened thechain, and Bella felt a keen blast of cold night air rush in as the doorwas flung open. She kept her eyes closed, however, for the woman at thatmoment looked back at her, and then drawing something from her gown sheblew a long shrill whistle. she then went out at the door and down a fewof the steps, stopped and whistled again, but the next moment a vigorouspush sent her spinning down the steps on to the road below.The door was closed, barred, and bolted, and Bella almost flew to hermaster's bedroom and tried to wake him. In vain. He and his wife slept on,while their snores sounded loudly through the house. The girl feltfrantic. She then tried to rouse young Alderson, but he slept as if in atrance. Now a fierce battery on the door and cries below the windows toldthat the band had arrived.A new thought came to Bella. She ran back to the kitchen. There was theHand of Glory, still burning with a wonderful light. The girl caught up acup of milk that stood on the table, dashed it on the flame andextinguished it   in one moment, as it seemed to her, she heard footstepscoming from the bedrooms, and George Alderson and his son rushed into theroom with firearms in their hands.As soon as the robbers heard his voice bidding them depart they summonedthe landlord to open his doors and produce his valuables. Meanwhile youngAlderson had opened the window, and for answer he fired his blunderbussdown among the men below.There was a groan, a fall, then a pause, and, as it seemed to thebesieged, some sort of discussion. Then a voice called out, "Give up theHand of Glory, and we will not harm you."For answer young Alderson fired again, and the party drew off. Seeminglythey had trusted entirely to the Hand of Glory, or else they feared a longresistance, for no further attack was made. The withered hand remained inpossession of the Aldersons for sixteen years after.This story was told to my informant, Mr. Atkinson, by Bella herself whenshe was quite an old woman.