The storks relate to their little ones a great many stories, andthey are all about moors and reed banks, and suited to their age andcapacity. The youngest of them are quite satisfied with "kribble,krabble," or such nonsense, and think it very grand. but the elderones want something with a deeper meaning, or at least something abouttheir own family.We are only acquainted with one of the two longest and oldeststories which the storks relate it is about Moses, who was exposed byhis mother on the banks of the Nile, and was found by the king'sdaughter, who gave him a good education, and he afterwards became agreat man. but where he was buried is still unknown.Every one knows this story, but not the second. very likelybecause it is quite an inland story. It has been repeated from mouthto mouth, from one stork mamma to another, for thousands of years. andeach has told it better than the last. and now we mean to tell itbetter than all.The first stork pair who related it lived at the time it happened,and had their summer residence on the rafters of the Viking's house,which stood near the wild moorlands of Wendsyssell. that is, tospeak more correctly, the great moorheath, high up in the north ofJutland, by the Skjagen peak. This wilderness is still an immense wildheath of marshy ground, about which we can read in the "OfficialDirectory." It is said that in olden times the place was a lake, theground of which had heaved up from beneath, and now the moorlandextends for miles in every direction, and is surrounded by dampmeadows, trembling, undulating swamps, and marshy ground coveredwith turf, on which grow bilberry bushes and stunted trees. Mistsare almost always hovering over this region, which, seventy years ago,was overrun with wolves. It may well be called the Wild Moor. andone can easily imagine, with such a wild expanse of marsh and lake,how lonely and dreary it must have been a thousand years ago. Manythings may be noticed now that existed then. The reeds grow to thesame height, and bear the same kind of long, purple brown leaves, withtheir feathery tips. There still stands the birch, with its white barkand its delicate, loosely hanging leaves. and with regard to theliving beings who frequented this spot, the fly still wears a gauzydress of the same cut, and the favorite colors of the stork are white,with black and red for stockings. The people, certainly, in thosedays, wore very different dresses to those they now wear, but if anyof them, be he huntsman or squire, master or servant, ventured onthe wavering, undulating, marshy ground of the moor, they met with thesame fate a thousand years ago as they would now. The wanderer sank,and went down to the Marsh King, as he is named, who rules in thegreat moorland empire beneath. They also called him "Gunkel King," butwe like the name of "Marsh King" better, and we will give him thatname as the storks do. Very little is known of the Marsh King'srule, but that, perhaps, is a good thing.In the neighborhood of the moorlands, and not far from the greatarm of the North Sea and the Cattegat which is called theLumfjorden, lay the castle of the Viking, with its water tight stonecellars, its tower, and its three projecting storeys. On the ridgeof the roof the stork had built his nest, and there the stork mammasat on her eggs and felt sure her hatching would come to something.One evening, stork papa stayed out rather late, and when he camehome he seemed quite busy, bustling, and important. "I havesomething very dreadful to tell you," said he to the stork mamma."Keep it to yourself then," she replied. "Remember that I amhatching eggs. it may agitate me, and will affect them.""You must know it at once," said he. "The daughter of our hostin Egypt has arrived here. She has ventured to take this journey,and now she is lost.""She who sprung from the race of the fairies, is it?" cried themother stork. "Oh, tell me all about it. you know I cannot bear tobe kept waiting at a time when I am hatching eggs.""Well, you see, mother," he replied, "she believed what thedoctors said, and what I have heard you state also, that themoor flowers which grow about here would heal her sick father. and shehas flown to the north in swan's plumage, in company with some otherswan princesses, who come to these parts every year to renew theiryouth. She came, and where is she now!""You enter into particulars too much," said the mamma stork,"and the eggs may take cold. I cannot bear such suspense as this.""Well," said he, "I have kept watch. and this evening I went amongthe rushes where I thought the marshy ground would bear me, andwhile I was there three swans came. Something in their manner offlying seemed to say to me, 'Look carefully now. there is one notall swan, only swan's feathers.' You know, mother, you have the sameintuitive feeling that I have. you know whether a thing is right ornot immediately.""Yes, of course," said she. "but tell me about the princess. Iam tired of hearing about the swan's feathers.""Well, you know that in the middle of the moor there issomething like a lake," said the stork papa. "You can see the edgeof it if you raise yourself a little. Just there, by the reeds and thegreen banks, lay the trunk of an elder tree. upon this the three swansstood flapping their wings, and looking about them. one of themthrew off her plumage, and I immediately recognized her as one ofthe princesses of our home in Egypt. There she sat, without anycovering but her long, black hair. I heard her tell the two othersto take great care of the swan's plumage, while she dipped down intothe water to pluck the flowers which she fancied she saw there. Theothers nodded, and picked up the feather dress, and took possession ofit. I wonder what will become of it? thought I, and she most likelyasked herself the same question. If so, she received an answer, a verypractical one. for the two swans rose up and flew away with her swan'splumage. 'Dive down now!' they cried. 'thou shalt never more fly inthe swan's plumage, thou shalt never again see Egypt. here, on themoor, thou wilt remain.' So saying, they tore the swan's plumageinto a thousand pieces, the feathers drifted about like a snow shower,and then the two deceitful princesses flew away.""Why, that is terrible," said the stork mamma. "I feel as if Icould hardly bear to hear any more, but you must tell me what happenednext.""The princess wept and lamented aloud. her tears moistened theelder stump, which was really not an elder stump but the Marsh Kinghimself, he who in marshy ground lives and rules. I saw myself how thestump of the tree turned round, and was a tree no more, while long,clammy branches like arms, were extended from it. Then the poorchild was terribly frightened, and started up to run away. Shehastened to cross the green, slimy ground. but it will not bear anyweight, much less hers. She quickly sank, and the elder stump divedimmediately after her. in fact, it was he who drew her down. Greatblack bubbles rose up out of the moor slime, and with these everytrace of the two vanished. And now the princess is buried in thewild marsh, she will never now carry flowers to Egypt to cure herfather. It would have broken your heart, mother, had you seen it.""You ought not to have told me," said she, "at such a time asthis. the eggs might suffer. But I think the princess will soon findhelp. some one will rise up to help her. Ah! if it had been you orI, or one of our people, it would have been all over with us.""I mean to go every day," said he, "to see if anything comes topass." and so he did.A long time went by, but at last he saw a green stalk shootingup out of the deep, marshy ground. As it reached the surface of themarsh, a leaf spread out, and unfolded itself broader and broader, andclose to it came forth a bud.One morning, when the stork papa was flying over the stem, hesaw that the power of the sun's rays had caused the bud to open, andin the cup of the flower lay a charming child a little maiden,looking as if she had just come out of a bath. The little one was solike the Egyptian princess, that the stork, at the first moment,thought it must be the princess herself, but after a little reflectionhe decided that it was much more likely to be the daughter of theprincess and the Marsh King. and this explained also her beingplaced in the cup of a water lily. "But she cannot be left to liehere," thought the stork, "and in my nest there are already so many.But stay, I have thought of something: the wife of the Viking has nochildren, and how often she has wished for a little one. People alwayssay the stork brings the little ones. I will do so in earnest thistime. I shall fly with the child to the Viking's wife. whatrejoicing there will be!"And then the stork lifted the little girl out of the flower cup,flew to the castle, picked a hole with his beak in the bladder coveredwindow, and laid the beautiful child in the bosom of the Viking'swife. Then he flew back quickly to the stork mamma and told herwhat he had seen and done. and the little storks listened to itall, for they were then quite old enough to do so. "So you see,"he continued, "that the princess is not dead, for she must have senther little one up here. and now I have found a home for her.""Ah, I said it would be so from the first," replied thestork mamma. "but now think a little of your own family. Ourtravelling time draws near, and I sometimes feel a little irritationalready under the wings. The cuckoos and the nightingale are alreadygone, and I heard the quails say they should go too as soon as thewind was favorable. Our youngsters will go through all themanoeuvres at the review very well, or I am much mistaken in them."The Viking's wife was above measure delighted when she awoke thenext morning and found the beautiful little child lying in herbosom. She kissed it and caressed it. but it cried terribly, andstruck out with its arms and legs, and did not seem to be pleased atall. At last it cried itself to sleep. and as it lay there so stilland quiet, it was a most beautiful sight to see. The Viking's wife wasso delighted, that body and soul were full of joy. Her heart felt solight within her, that it seemed as if her husband and his soldiers,who were absent, must come home as suddenly and unexpectedly as thelittle child had done. She and her whole household therefore busiedthemselves in preparing everything for the reception of her lord.The long, colored tapestry, on which she and her maidens had workedpictures of their idols, Odin, Thor, and Friga, was hung up. Theslaves polished the old shields that served as ornaments. cushionswere placed on the seats, and dry wood laid on the fireplaces in thecentre of the hall, so that the flames might be fanned up at amoment's notice. The Viking's wife herself assisted in the work, sothat at night she felt very tired, and quickly fell into a soundsleep. When she awoke, just before morning, she was terribly alarmedto find that the infant had vanished. She sprang from her couch,lighted a pine chip, and searched all round the room, when, at last,in that part of the bed where her feet had been, lay, not the child,but a great, ugly frog. She was quite disgusted at this sight, andseized a heavy stick to kill the frog. but the creature looked ather with such strange, mournful eyes, that she was unable to strikethe blow. Once more she searched round the room. then she started athearing the frog utter a low, painful croak. She sprang from the couchand opened the window hastily. at the same moment the sun rose, andthrew its beams through the window, till it rested on the couchwhere the great frog lay. Suddenly it appeared as if the frog'sbroad mouth contracted, and became small and red. The limbs movedand stretched out and extended themselves till they took a beautifulshape. and behold there was the pretty child lying before her, and theugly frog was gone. "How is this?" she cried, "have I had a wickeddream? Is it not my own lovely cherub that lies there." Then shekissed it and fondled it. but the child struggled and fought, andbit as if she had been a little wild cat.The Viking did not return on that day, nor the next. he was,however, on the way home. but the wind, so favorable to the storks,was against him. for it blew towards the south. A wind in favor of oneis often against another.After two or three days had passed, it became clear to theViking's wife how matters stood with the child. it was under theinfluence of a powerful sorcerer. By day it was charming in appearanceas an angel of light, but with a temper wicked and wild. while atnight, in the form of an ugly frog, it was quiet and mournful, witheyes full of sorrow. Here were two natures, changing inwardly andoutwardly with the absence and return of sunlight. And so ithappened that by day the child, with the actual form of its mother,possessed the fierce disposition of its father. at night, on thecontrary, its outward appearance plainly showed its descent on thefather's side, while inwardly it had the heart and mind of its mother.Who would be able to loosen this wicked charm which the sorcerer hadworked upon it? The wife of the Viking lived in constant pain andsorrow about it. Her heart clung to the little creature, but she couldnot explain to her husband the circumstances in which it was placed.He was expected to return shortly. and were she to tell him, hewould very likely, as was the custom at that time, expose the poorchild in the public highway, and let any one take it away who would.The good wife of the Viking could not let that happen, and shetherefore resolved that the Viking should never see the childexcepting by daylight.One morning there sounded a rushing of storks' wings over theroof. More than a hundred pair of storks had rested there during thenight, to recover themselves after their excursion. and now theysoared aloft, and prepared for the journey southward."All the husbands are here, and ready!" they cried. "wives andchildren also!""How light we are!" screamed the young storks in chorus."Something pleasant seems creeping over us, even down to our toes,as if we were full of live frogs. Ah, how delightful it is to travelinto foreign lands!""Hold yourselves properly in the line with us," cried papa andmamma. "Do not use your beaks so much. it tries the lungs." And thenthe storks flew away.About the same time sounded the clang of the warriors' trumpetsacross the heath. The Viking had landed with his men. They werereturning home, richly laden with spoil from the Gallic coast, wherethe people, as did also the inhabitants of Britain, often cried inalarm, "Deliver us from the wild northmen."Life and noisy pleasure came with them into the castle of theViking on the moorland. A great cask of mead was drawn into thehall, piles of wood blazed, cattle were slain and served up, that theymight feast in reality, The priest who offered the sacrifice sprinkledthe devoted parishioners with the warm blood. the fire crackled, andthe smoke rolled along beneath the roof. the soot fell upon themfrom the beams. but they were used to all these things. Guests wereinvited, and received handsome presents. All wrongs and unfaithfulnesswere forgotten. They drank deeply, and threw in each other's faces thebones that were left, which was looked upon as a sign of goodfeeling amongst them. A bard, who was a kind of musician as well aswarrior, and who had been with the Viking in his expedition, andknew what to sing about, gave them one of his best songs, in whichthey heard all their warlike deeds praised, and every wonderful actionbrought forward with honor. Every verse ended with this refrain, "Gold and possessions will flee away,Friends and foes must die one day.Every man on earth must die,But a famous name will never die."And with that they beat upon their shields, and hammered upon thetable with knives and bones, in a most outrageous manner.The Viking's wife sat upon a raised cross seat in the open hall.She wore a silk dress, golden bracelets, and large amber beads. Shewas in costly attire, and the bard named her in his song, and spoke ofthe rich treasure of gold which she had brought to her husband. Herhusband had already seen the wonderfully beautiful child in thedaytime, and was delighted with her beauty. even her wild ways pleasedhim. He said the little maiden would grow up to be a heroine, with thestrong will and determination of a man. She would never wink her eyes,even if, in joke, an expert hand should attempt to cut off hereye brows with a sharp sword.The full cask of mead soon became empty, and a fresh one wasbrought in. for these were people who liked plenty to eat and drink.The old proverb, which every one knows, says that "the cattle knowwhen to leave their pasture, but a foolish man knows not the measureof his own appetite." Yes, they all knew this. but men may know whatis right, and yet often do wrong. They also knew "that even thewelcome guest becomes wearisome when he sits too long in the house."But there they remained. for pork and mead are good things. And soat the Viking's house they stayed, and enjoyed themselves. and atnight the bondmen slept in the ashes, and dipped their fingers inthe fat, and licked them. Oh, it was a delightful time!Once more in the same year the Viking went forth, though thestorms of autumn had already commenced to roar. He went with hiswarriors to the coast of Britain. he said that it was but an excursionof pleasure across the water, so his wife remained at home with thelittle girl. After a while, it is quite certain the foster motherbegan to love the poor frog, with its gentle eyes and its deepsighs, even better than the little beauty who bit and fought withall around her.The heavy, damp mists of autumn, which destroy the leaves of thewood, had already fallen upon forest and heath. Feathers of pluckedbirds, as they call the snow, flew about in thick showers, andwinter was coming. The sparrows took possession of the stork's nest,and conversed about the absent owners in their own fashion. andthey, the stork pair and all their young ones, where were they stayingnow? The storks might have been found in the land of Egypt, wherethe sun's rays shone forth bright and warm, as it does here atmidsummer. Tamarinds and acacias were in full bloom all over thecountry, the crescent of Mahomet glittered brightly from the cupolasof the mosques, and on the slender pinnacles sat many of the storks,resting after their long journey. Swarms of them took dividedpossession of the nests nests which lay close to each other betweenthe venerable columns, and crowded the arches of temples inforgotten cities. The date and the palm lifted themselves as ascreen or as a sun shade over them. The gray pyramids looked likebroken shadows in the clear air and the far off desert, where theostrich wheels his rapid flight, and the lion, with his subtle eyes,gazes at the marble sphinx which lies half buried in sand. Thewaters of the Nile had retreated, and the whole bed of the river wascovered with frogs, which was a most acceptable prospect for the storkfamilies. The young storks thought their eyes deceived them,everything around appeared so beautiful."It is always like this here, and this is how we live in ourwarm country," said the stork mamma. and the thought made the youngones almost beside themselves with pleasure."Is there anything more to see?" they asked. "are we going fartherinto the country?""There is nothing further for us to see," answered thestork mamma. "Beyond this delightful region there are immense forests,where the branches of the trees entwine round each other, whileprickly, creeping plants cover the paths, and only an elephant couldforce a passage for himself with his great feet. The snakes are toolarge, and the lizards too lively for us to catch. Then there is thedesert. if you went there, your eyes would soon be full of sand withthe lightest breeze, and if it should blow great guns, you wouldmost likely find yourself in a sand drift. Here is the best placefor you, where there are frogs and locusts. here I shall remain, andso must you." And so they stayed.The parents sat in the nest on the slender minaret, and rested,yet still were busily employed in cleaning and smoothing theirfeathers, and in sharpening their beaks against their red stockings.then they would stretch out their necks, salute each other, andgravely raise their heads with the high polished forehead, and soft,smooth feathers, while their brown eyes shone with intelligence. Thefemale young ones strutted about amid the moist rushes, glancing atthe other young storks and making acquaintances, and swallowing a frogat every third step, or tossing a little snake about with their beaks,in a way they considered very becoming, and besides it tasted verygood. The young male storks soon began to quarrel. they struck at eachother with their wings, and pecked with their beaks till the bloodcame. And in this manner many of the young ladies and gentlemen werebetrothed to each other: it was, of course, what they wanted, andindeed what they lived for. Then they returned to a nest, and therethe quarrelling began afresh. for in hot countries people are almostall violent and passionate. But for all that it was pleasant,especially for the old people, who watched them with great joy: allthat their young ones did suited them. Every day here there wassunshine, plenty to eat, and nothing to think of but pleasure. Butin the rich castle of their Egyptian host, as they called him,pleasure was not to be found. The rich and mighty lord of the castlelay on his couch, in the midst of the great hall, with its manycolored walls looking like the centre of a great tulip. but he wasstiff and powerless in all his limbs, and lay stretched out like amummy. His family and servants stood round him. he was not dead,although he could scarcely be said to live. The healing moor flowerfrom the north, which was to have been found and brought to him by herwho loved him so well, had not arrived. His young and beautifuldaughter who, in swan's plumage, had flown over land and seas to thedistant north, had never returned. She is dead, so the twoswan maidens had said when they came home. and they made up quite astory about her, and this is what they told, "We three flew away together through the air," said they: "ahunter caught sight of us, and shot at us with an arrow. The arrowstruck our young friend and sister, and slowly singing her farewellsong she sank down, a dying swan, into the forest lake. On theshores of the lake, under a spreading birch tree, we laid her in thecold earth. We had our revenge. we bound fire under the wings of aswallow, who had a nest on the thatched roof of the huntsman. Thehouse took fire, and burst into flames. the hunter was burnt withthe house, and the light was reflected over the sea as far as thespreading birch, beneath which we laid her sleeping dust. She willnever return to the land of Egypt." And then they both wept. Andstork papa, who heard the story, snapped with his beak so that itmight be heard a long way off."Deceit and lies!" cried he. "I should like to run my beak deepinto their chests.""And perhaps break it off," said the mamma stork, "then what asight you would be. Think first of yourself, and then of yourfamily. all others are nothing to us.""Yes, I know," said the stork papa. "but to morrow I can easilyplace myself on the edge of the open cupola, when the learned and wisemen assemble to consult on the state of the sick man. perhaps they maycome a little nearer to the truth." And the learned and wise menassembled together, and talked a great deal on every point. but thestork could make no sense out of anything they said. neither werethere any good results from their consultations, either for the sickman, or for his daughter in the marshy heath. When we listen to whatpeople say in this world, we shall hear a great deal. but it is anadvantage to know what has been said and done before, when we listento a conversation. The stork did, and we know at least as much ashe, the stork."Love is a life giver. The highest love produces the highest life.Only through love can the sick man be cured." This had been said bymany, and even the learned men acknowledged that it was a wise saying."What a beautiful thought!" exclaimed the papa stork immediately."I don't quite understand it," said the mamma stork, when herhusband repeated it. "however, it is not my fault, but the fault ofthe thought. whatever it may be, I have something else to think of."Now the learned men had spoken also of love between this one andthat one. of the difference of the love which we have for ourneighbor, to the love that exists between parents and children. of thelove of the plant for the light, and how the germ springs forth whenthe sunbeam kisses the ground. All these things were so elaboratelyand learnedly explained, that it was impossible for stork papa tofollow it, much less to talk about it. His thoughts on the subjectquite weighed him down. he stood the whole of the following day on oneleg, with half shut eyes, thinking deeply. So much learning wasquite a heavy weight for him to carry. One thing, however, the papastork could understand. Every one, high and low, had from their inmosthearts expressed their opinion that it was a great misfortune for somany thousands of people the whole country indeed to have this manso sick, with no hopes of his recovery. And what joy and blessing itwould spread around if he could by any means be cured! But wherebloomed the flower that could bring him health? They had searchedfor it everywhere. in learned writings, in the shining stars, in theweather and wind. Inquiries had been made in every by way that couldbe thought of, until at last the wise and learned men has asserted, aswe have been already told, that "love, the life giver, could alonegive new life to a father." and in saying this, they had overdoneit, and said more than they understood themselves. They repeated it,and wrote it down as a recipe, "Love is a life giver." But how couldsuch a recipe be prepared that was a difficulty they could notovercome. At last it was decided that help could only come from theprincess herself, whose whole soul was wrapped up in her father,especially as a plan had been adopted by her to enable her to obtain aremedy.More than a year had passed since the princess had set out atnight, when the light of the young moon was soon lost beneath thehorizon. She had gone to the marble sphinx in the desert, shakingthe sand from her sandals, and then passed through the long passage,which leads to the centre of one of the great pyramids, where themighty kings of antiquity, surrounded with pomp and splendor, lieveiled in the form of mummies. She had been told by the wise men, thatif she laid her head on the breast of one of them, from the head shewould learn where to find life and recovery for her father. She hadperformed all this, and in a dream had learnt that she must bring hometo her father the lotus flower, which grows in the deep sea, nearthe moors and heath in the Danish land. The very place and situationhad been pointed out to her, and she was told that the flower wouldrestore her father to health and strength. And, therefore, she hadgone forth from the land of Egypt, flying over to the open marsh andthe wild moor in the plumage of a swan.The papa and mamma storks knew all this, and we also know itnow. We know, too, that the Marsh King has drawn her down tohimself, and that to the loved ones at home she is forever dead. Oneof the wisest of them said, as the stork mamma also said, "That insome way she would, after all, manage to succeed." and so at last theycomforted themselves with this hope, and would wait patiently. infact, they could do nothing better."I should like to get away the swan's feathers from those twotreacherous princesses," said the papa stork. "then, at least, theywould not be able to fly over again to the wild moor, and do morewickedness. I can hide the two suits of feathers over yonder, tillwe find some use for them.""But where will you put them?" asked the mamma stork."In our nest on the moor. I and the young ones will carry themby turns during our flight across. and as we return, should they provetoo heavy for us, we shall be sure to find plenty of places on the wayin which we can conceal them till our next journey. Certainly one suitof swan's feathers would be enough for the princess, but two arealways better. In those northern countries no one can have too manytravelling wrappers.""No one will thank you for it," said stork mamma. "but you aremaster. and, excepting at breeding time, I have nothing to say."In the Viking's castle on the wild moor, to which the storksdirected their flight in the following spring, the little maiden stillremained. They had named her Helga, which was rather too soft a namefor a child with a temper like hers, although her form was stillbeautiful. Every month this temper showed itself in sharperoutlines. and in the course of years, while the storks still madethe same journeys in autumn to the hill, and in spring to the moors,the child grew to be almost a woman, and before any one seemed awareof it, she was a wonderfully beautiful maiden of sixteen. The casketwas splendid, but the contents were worthless. She was, indeed, wildand savage even in those hard, uncultivated times. It was a pleasureto her to splash about with her white hands in the warm blood of thehorse which had been slain for sacrifice. In one of her wild moods shebit off the head of the black cock, which the priest was about to slayfor the sacrifice. To her foster father she said one day, "If thineenemy were to pull down thine house about thy ears, and thou shouldestbe sleeping in unconscious security, I would not wake thee. even ifI had the power I would never do it, for my ears still tingle with theblow that thou gavest me years ago. I have never forgotten it." Butthe Viking treated her words as a joke. he was, like every one else,bewitched with her beauty, and knew nothing of the change in theform and temper of Helga at night. Without a saddle, she would siton a horse as if she were a part of it, while it rushed along atfull speed. nor would she spring from its back, even when itquarrelled with other horses and bit them. She would often leap fromthe high shore into the sea with all her clothes on, and swim tomeet the Viking, when his boat was steering home towards the shore.She once cut off a long lock of her beautiful hair, and twisted itinto a string for her bow. "If a thing is to be done well," saidshe, "I must do it myself."The Viking's wife was, for the time in which she lived, a woman ofstrong character and will. but, compared to her daughter, she was agentle, timid woman, and she knew that a wicked sorcerer had theterrible child in his power. It was sometimes as if Helga acted fromsheer wickedness. for often when her mother stood on the thresholdof the door, or stepped into the yard, she would seat herself on thebrink of the well, wave her arms and legs in the air, and suddenlyfall right in. Here she was able, from her frog nature, to dip anddive about in the water of the deep well, until at last she wouldclimb forth like a cat, and come back into the hall dripping withwater, so that the green leaves that were strewed on the floor werewhirled round, and carried away by the streams that flowed from her.But there was one time of the day which placed a check upon Helga.It was the evening twilight. when this hour arrived she became quietand thoughtful, and allowed herself to be advised and led. then also asecret feeling seemed to draw her towards her mother. And as usual,when the sun set, and the transformation took place, both in bodyand mind, inwards and outwards, she would remain quiet and mournful,with her form shrunk together in the shape of a frog. Her body wasmuch larger than those animals ever are, and on this account it wasmuch more hideous in appearance. for she looked like a wretched dwarf,with a frog's head, and webbed fingers. Her eyes had a most piteousexpression. she was without a voice, excepting a hollow, croakingsound, like the smothered sobs of a dreaming child.Then the Viking's wife took her on her lap, and forgot the uglyform, as she looked into the mournful eyes, and often said, "I couldwish that thou wouldst always remain my dumb frog child, for thouart too terrible when thou art clothed in a form of beauty." And theViking woman wrote Runic characters against sorcery and spells ofsickness, and threw them over the wretched child. but they did nogood."One can scarcely believe that she was ever small enough to lie inthe cup of the water lily," said the papa stork. "and now she is grownup, and the image of her Egyptian mother, especially about the eyes.Ah, we shall never see her again. perhaps she has not discovered howto help herself, as you and the wise men said she would. Year afteryear have I flown across and across the moor, but there was no sign ofher being still alive. Yes, and I may as well tell you that you thateach year, when I arrived a few days before you to repair the nest,and put everything in its place, I have spent a whole night flyinghere and there over the marshy lake, as if I had been an owl or a bat,but all to no purpose. The two suit of swan's plumage, which I and theyoung ones dragged over here from the land of the Nile, are of no use.trouble enough it was to us to bring them here in three journeys,and now they are lying at the bottom of the nest. and if a fire shouldhappen to break out, and the wooden house be burnt down, they would bedestroyed.""And our good nest would be destroyed, too," said the mamma stork."but you think less of that than of your plumage stuff and yourmoor princess. Go and stay with her in the marsh if you like. Youare a bad father to your own children, as I have told you already,when I hatched my first brood. I only hope neither we nor our childrenmay have an arrow sent through our wings, owing to that wild girl.Helga does not know in the least what she is about. We have lived inthis house longer than she has, she should think of that, and wehave never forgotten our duty. We have paid every year our toll of afeather, an egg, and a young one, as it is only right we should do.You don't suppose I can wander about the court yard, or goeverywhere as I used to do in old times. I can do it in Egypt, where Ican be a companion of the people, without forgetting myself. Buthere I cannot go and peep into the pots and kettles as I do there. No,I can only sit up here and feel angry with that girl, the littlewretch. and I am angry with you, too. you should have left her lyingin the water lily, then no one would have known anything about her.""You are far better than your conversation," said the papastork. "I know you better than you know yourself." And with that hegave a hop, and flapped his wings twice, proudly. then he stretchedhis neck and flew, or rather soared away, without moving his outspreadwings. He went on for some distance, and then he gave a great flapwith his wings and flew on his course at a rapid rate, his head andneck bending proudly before him, while the sun's rays fell on hisglossy plumage."He is the handsomest of them all," said the mamma stork, as shewatched him. "but I won't tell him so."Early in the autumn, the Viking again returned home laden withspoil, and bringing prisoners with him. Among them was a youngChristian priest, one of those who contemned the gods of the north.Often lately there had been, both in hall and chamber, a talk of thenew faith which was spreading far and wide in the south, and which,through the means of the holy Ansgarius, had already reached as far asHedeby on the Schlei. Even Helga had heard of this belief in theteachings of One who was named Christ, and who for the love ofmankind, and for their redemption, had given up His life. But to herall this had, as it were, gone in one ear and out the other. It seemedthat she only understood the meaning of the word "love," when in theform of a miserable frog she crouched together in the corner of thesleeping chamber. but the Viking's wife had listened to thewonderful story, and had felt herself strangely moved by it.On their return, after this voyage, the men spoke of the beautifultemples built of polished stone, which had been raised for thepublic worship of this holy love. Some vessels, curiously formed ofmassive gold, had been brought home among the booty. There was apeculiar fragrance about them all, for they were incense vessels,which had been swung before the altars in the temples by the Christianpriests. In the deep stony cellars of the castle, the youngChristian priest was immured, and his hands and feet tied togetherwith strips of bark. The Viking's wife considered him as beautifulas Baldur, and his distress raised her pity. but Helga said he oughtto have ropes fastened to his heels, and be tied to the tails ofwild animals."I would let the dogs loose after him" she said. "over the moorand across the heath. Hurrah! that would be a spectacle for thegods, and better still to follow in its course."But the Viking would not allow him to die such a death as that,especially as he was the disowned and despiser of the high gods. Ina few days, he had decided to have him offered as a sacrifice on theblood stone in the grove. For the first time, a man was to besacrificed here. Helga begged to be allowed to sprinkle theassembled people with the blood of the priest. She sharpened herglittering knife. and when one of the great, savage dogs, who wererunning about the Viking's castle in great numbers, sprang towardsher, she thrust the knife into his side, merely, as she said, to proveits sharpness.The Viking's wife looked at the wild, badly disposed girl, withgreat sorrow. and when night came on, and her daughter's beautifulform and disposition were changed, she spoke in eloquent words toHelga of the sorrow and deep grief that was in her heart. The uglyfrog, in its monstrous shape, stood before her, and raised its brownmournful eyes to her face, listening to her words, and seeming tounderstand them with the intelligence of a human being."Never once to my lord and husband has a word passed my lips ofwhat I have to suffer through you. my heart is full of grief aboutyou," said the Viking's wife. "The love of a mother is greater andmore powerful than I ever imagined. But love never entered thyheart. it is cold and clammy, like the plants on the moor."Then the miserable form trembled. it was as if these words hadtouched an invisible bond between body and soul, for great tears stoodin the eyes."A bitter time will come for thee at last," continued the Viking'swife. "and it will be terrible for me too. It had been better for theeif thou hadst been left on the high road, with the cold night windto lull thee to sleep." And the Viking's wife shed bitter tears, andwent away in anger and sorrow, passing under the partition of furs,which hung loose over the beam and divided the hall.The shrivelled frog still sat in the corner alone. Deep silencereigned around. At intervals, a half stifled sigh was heard from itsinmost soul. it was the soul of Helga. It seemed in pain, as if anew life were arising in her heart. Then she took a step forward andlistened. then stepped again forward, and seized with her clumsy handsthe heavy bar which was laid across the door. Gently, and with muchtrouble, she pushed back the bar, as silently lifted the latch, andthen took up the glimmering lamp which stood in the ante chamber ofthe hall. It seemed as if a stronger will than her own gave herstrength. She removed the iron bolt from the closed cellar door, andslipped in to the prisoner. He was slumbering. She touched him withher cold, moist hand, and as he awoke and caught sight of thehideous form, he shuddered as if he beheld a wicked apparition. Shedrew her knife, cut through the bonds which confined his hands andfeet, and beckoned to him to follow her. He uttered some holy namesand made the sign of the cross, while the form remained motionlessby his side."Who art thou?" he asked, "whose outward appearance is that ofan animal, while thou willingly performest acts of mercy?"The frog figure beckoned to him to follow her, and led him througha long gallery concealed by hanging drapery to the stables, and thenpointed to a horse. He mounted upon it, and she sprang up alsobefore him, and held tightly by the animal's mane. The prisonerunderstood her, and they rode on at a rapid trot, by a road which hewould never have found by himself, across the open heath. He forgother ugly form, and only thought how the mercy and loving kindness ofthe Almighty was acting through this hideous apparition. As he offeredpious prayers and sang holy songs of praise, she trembled. Was itthe effect of prayer and praise that caused this? or, was sheshuddering in the cold morning air at the thought of approachingtwilight? What were her feelings? She raised herself up, and wanted tostop the horse and spring off, but the Christian priest held herback with all his might, and then sang a pious song, as if thiscould loosen the wicked charm that had changed her into thesemblance of a frog.And the horse galloped on more wildly than before. The sky painteditself red, the first sunbeam pierced through the clouds, and in theclear flood of sunlight the frog became changed. It was Helga again,young and beautiful, but with a wicked demoniac spirit. He held nowa beautiful young woman in his arms, and he was horrified at thesight. He stopped the horse, and sprang from its back. He imaginedthat some new sorcery was at work. But Helga also leaped from thehorse and stood on the ground. The child's short garment reachedonly to her knee. She snatched the sharp knife from her girdle, andrushed like lightning at the astonished priest. "Let me get atthee!" she cried. "let me get at thee, that I may plunge this knifeinto thy body. Thou art pale as ashes, thou beardless slave." Shepressed in upon him. They struggled with each other in heavy combat,but it was as if an invisible power had been given to the Christian inthe struggle. He held her fast, and the old oak under which they stoodseemed to help him, for the loosened roots on the ground becameentangled in the maiden's feet, and held them fast. Close by rose abubbling spring, and he sprinkled Helga's face and neck with thewater, commanded the unclean spirit to come forth, and pronounced uponher a Christian blessing. But the water of faith has no power unlessthe well spring of faith flows within. And yet even here its power wasshown. something more than the mere strength of a man opposeditself, through his means, against the evil which struggled withinher. His holy action seemed to overpower her. She dropped her arms,glanced at him with pale cheeks and looks of amazement. He appeared toher a mighty magician skilled in secret arts. his language was thedarkest magic to her, and the movements of his hands in the air wereas the secret signs of a magician's wand. She would not have blinkedhad he waved over her head a sharp knife or a glittering axe. butshe shrunk from him as he signed her with the sign of the cross on herforehead and breast, and sat before him like a tame bird, with herhead bowed down. Then he spoke to her, in gentle words, of the deed oflove she had performed for him during the night, when she had cometo him in the form of an ugly frog, to loosen his bonds, and to leadhim forth to life and light. and he told her that she was bound incloser fetters than he had been, and that she could recover alsolife and light by his means. He would take her to Hedeby to St.Ansgarius, and there, in that Christian town, the spell of thesorcerer would be removed. But he would not let her sit before himon the horse, though of her own free will she wished to do so. "Thoumust sit behind me, not before me," said he. "Thy magic beauty has amagic power which comes from an evil origin, and I fear it. still I amsure to overcome through my faith in Christ." Then he knelt down,and prayed with pious fervor. It was as if the quiet woodland were aholy church consecrated by his worship. The birds sang as if they werealso of this new congregation. and the fragrance of the wild flowerswas as the ambrosial perfume of incense. while, above all, sounded thewords of Scripture, "A light to them that sit in darkness and in theshadow of death, to guide their feet into the way of peace." And hespoke these words with the deep longing of his whole nature.Meanwhile, the horse that had carried them in wild career stoodquietly by, plucking at the tall bramble bushes, till the ripe youngberries fell down upon Helga's hands, as if inviting her to eat.Patiently she allowed herself to be lifted on the horse, and sat therelike a somnambulist as one who walked in his sleep. The Christianbound two branches together with bark, in the form of a cross, andheld it on high as they rode through the forest. The way graduallygrew thicker of brushwood, as they rode along, till at last itbecame a trackless wilderness. Bushes of the wild sloe here andthere blocked up the path, so that they had to ride over them. Thebubbling spring formed not a stream, but a marsh, round which alsothey were obliged to guide the horse. still there were strength andrefreshment in the cool forest breeze, and no trifling power in thegentle words spoken in faith and Christian love by the young priest,whose inmost heart yearned to lead this poor lost one into the wayof light and life. It is said that rain drops can make a hollow in thehardest stone, and the waves of the sea can smooth and round the roughedges of the rocks. so did the dew of mercy fall upon Helga, softeningwhat was hard, and smoothing what was rough in her character. Theseeffects did not yet appear. she was not herself aware of them. neitherdoes the seed in the lap of earth know, when the refreshing dew andthe warm sunbeams fall upon it, that it contains within itself powerby which it will flourish and bloom. The song of the mother sinks intothe heart of the child, and the little one prattles the words afterher, without understanding their meaning. but after a time thethoughts expand, and what has been heard in childhood seems to themind clear and bright. So now the "Word," which is all powerful tocreate, was working in the heart of Helga.They rode forth from the thick forest, crossed the heath, andagain entered a pathless wood. Here, towards evening, they met withrobbers."Where hast thou stolen that beauteous maiden?" cried the robbers,seizing the horse by the bridle, and dragging the two riders fromits back.The priest had nothing to defend himself with, but the knife hehad taken from Helga, and with this he struck out right and left.One of the robbers raised his axe against him. but the young priestsprang on one side, and avoided the blow, which fell with greatforce on the horse's neck, so that the blood gushed forth, and theanimal sunk to the ground. Then Helga seemed suddenly to awake fromher long, deep reverie. she threw herself hastily upon the dyinganimal. The priest placed himself before her, to defend and shelterher. but one of the robbers swung his iron axe against the Christian'shead with such force that it was dashed to pieces, the blood andbrains were scattered about, and he fell dead upon the ground. Thenthe robbers seized beautiful Helga by her white arms and slenderwaist. but at that moment the sun went down, and as its last raydisappeared, she was changed into the form of a frog. A greenish whitemouth spread half over her face. her arms became thin and slimy. whilebroad hands, with webbed fingers, spread themselves out like fans.Then the robbers, in terror, let her go, and she stood among them, ahideous monster. and as is the nature of frogs to do, she hopped up ashigh as her own size, and disappeared in the thicket. Then the robbersknew that this must be the work of an evil spirit or some secretsorcery, and, in a terrible fright, they ran hastily from the spot.The full moon had already risen, and was shining in all herradiant splendor over the earth, when from the thicket, in the form ofa frog, crept poor Helga. She stood still by the corpse of theChristian priest, and the carcase of the dead horse. She looked atthem with eyes that seemed to weep, and from the frog's head cameforth a croaking sound, as when a child bursts into tears. She threwherself first upon one, and then upon the other. brought water inher hand, which, from being webbed, was large and hollow, and pouredit over them. but they were dead, and dead they would remain. Sheunderstood that at last. Soon wild animals would come and tear theirdead bodies. but no, that must not happen. Then she dug up theearth, as deep as she was able, that she might prepare a grave forthem. She had nothing but a branch of a tree and her two hands,between the fingers of which the webbed skin stretched, and theywere torn by the work, while the blood ran down her hands. She sawat last that her work would be useless, more than she couldaccomplish. so she fetched more water, and washed the face of thedead, and then covered it with fresh green leaves. she also broughtlarge boughs and spread over him, and scattered dried leaves betweenthe branches. Then she brought the heaviest stones that she couldcarry, and laid them over the dead body, filling up the creviceswith moss, till she thought she had fenced in his resting placestrongly enough. The difficult task had employed her the wholenight. and as the sun broke forth, there stood the beautiful Helgain all her loveliness, with her bleeding hands, and, for the firsttime, with tears on her maiden cheeks. It was, in this transformation,as if two natures were striving together within her. her whole frametrembled, and she looked around her as if she had just awoke from apainful dream. She leaned for support against the trunk of a slendertree, and at last climbed to the topmost branches, like a cat, andseated herself firmly upon them. She remained there the whole day,sitting alone, like a frightened squirrel, in the silent solitude ofthe wood, where the rest and stillness is as the calm of death.Butterflies fluttered around her, and close by were severalant hills, each with its hundreds of busy little creatures movingquickly to and fro. In the air, danced myriads of gnats, swarm uponswarm, troops of buzzing flies, ladybirds, dragon flies with goldenwings, and other little winged creatures. The worm crawled forthfrom the moist ground, and the moles crept out. but, exceptingthese, all around had the stillness of death: but when people saythis, they do not quite understand themselves what they mean. Nonenoticed Helga but a flock of magpies, which flew chattering roundthe top of the tree on which she sat. These birds hopped close toher on the branches with bold curiosity. A glance from her eyes wasa signal to frighten them away, and they were not clever enough tofind out who she was. indeed she hardly knew herself.When the sun was near setting, and the evening's twilight about tocommence, the approaching transformation aroused her to freshexertion. She let herself down gently from the tree, and, as thelast sunbeam vanished, she stood again in the wrinkled form of a frog,with the torn, webbed skin on her hands, but her eyes now gleamed withmore radiant beauty than they had ever possessed in her most beautifulform of loveliness. they were now pure, mild maidenly eyes thatshone forth in the face of a frog. They showed the existence of deepfeeling and a human heart, and the beauteous eyes overflowed withtears, weeping precious drops that lightened the heart.On the raised mound which she had made as a grave for the deadpriest, she found the cross made of the branches of a tree, the lastwork of him who now lay dead and cold beneath it. A sudden thoughtcame to Helga, and she lifted up the cross and planted it upon thegrave, between the stones that covered him and the dead horse. The sadrecollection brought the tears to her eyes, and in this gentlespirit she traced the same sign in the sand round the grave. and asshe formed, with both her hands, the sign of the cross, the web skinfell from them like a torn glove. She washed her hands in the water ofthe spring, and gazed with astonishment at their delicate whiteness.Again she made the holy sign in the air, between herself and thedead man. her lips trembled, her tongue moved, and the name whichshe in her ride through the forest had so often heard spoken, roseto her lips, and she uttered the words, "Jesus Christ." Then thefrog skin fell from her. she was once more a lovely maiden. Her headbent wearily, her tired limbs required rest, and then she slept.Her sleep, however, was short. Towards midnight, she awoke. beforeher stood the dead horse, prancing and full of life, which shone forthfrom his eyes and from his wounded neck. Close by his side appearedthe murdered Christian priest, more beautiful than Baldur, as theViking's wife had said. but now he came as if in a flame of fire. Suchgravity, such stern justice, such a piercing glance shone from hislarge, gentle eyes, that it seemed to penetrate into every corner ofher heart. Beautiful Helga trembled at the look, and her memoryreturned with a power as if it had been the day of judgment. Everygood deed that had been done for her, every loving word that hadbeen said, were vividly before her mind. She understood now thatlove had kept her here during the day of her trial. while the creatureformed of dust and clay, soul and spirit, had wrestled and struggledwith evil. She acknowledged that she had only followed the impulses ofan evil disposition, that she had done nothing to cure herself.everything had been given her, and all had happened as it were bythe ordination of Providence. She bowed herself humbly, confessedher great imperfections in the sight of Him who can read every faultof the heart, and then the priest spoke. "Daughter of the moorland,thou hast come from the swamp and the marshy earth, but from this thoushalt arise. The sunlight shining into thy inmost soul proves theorigin from which thou hast really sprung, and has restored the bodyto its natural form. I am come to thee from the land of the dead,and thou also must pass through the valley to reach the holy mountainswhere mercy and perfection dwell. I cannot lead thee to Hedeby thatthou mayst receive Christian baptism, for first thou must remove thethick veil with which the waters of the moorland are shrouded, andbring forth from its depths the living author of thy being and thylife. Till this is done, thou canst not receive consecration."Then he lifted her on the horse and gave her a golden censer,similar to those she had already seen at the Viking's house. A sweetperfume arose from it, while the open wound in the forehead of theslain priest, shone with the rays of a diamond. He took the cross fromthe grave, and held it aloft, and now they rode through the air overthe rustling trees, over the hills where warriors lay buried each byhis dead war horse. and the brazen monumental figures rose up andgalloped forth, and stationed themselves on the summits of thehills. The golden crescent on their foreheads, fastened with goldenknots, glittered in the moonlight, and their mantles floated in thewind. The dragon, that guards buried treasure, lifted his head andgazed after them. The goblins and the satyrs peeped out from beneaththe hills, and flitted to and fro in the fields, waving blue, red, andgreen torches, like the glowing sparks in burning paper. Over woodlandand heath, flood and fen, they flew on, till they reached the wildmoor, over which they hovered in broad circles. The Christian priestheld the cross aloft, and it glittered like gold, while from hislips sounded pious prayers. Beautiful Helga's voice joined with his inthe hymns he sung, as a child joins in her mother's song. She swungthe censer, and a wonderful fragrance of incense arose from it. sopowerful, that the reeds and rushes of the moor burst forth intoblossom. Each germ came forth from the deep ground: all that hadlife raised itself. Blooming water lilies spread themselves forth likea carpet of wrought flowers, and upon them lay a slumbering woman,young and beautiful. Helga fancied that it was her own image she sawreflected in the still water. But it was her mother she beheld, thewife of the Marsh King, the princess from the land of the Nile.The dead Christian priest desired that the sleeping woman shouldbe lifted on the horse, but the horse sank beneath the load, as ifhe had been a funeral pall fluttering in the wind. But the sign of thecross made the airy phantom strong, and then the three rode awayfrom the marsh to firm ground.At the same moment the cock crew in the Viking's castle, and thedream figures dissolved and floated away in the air, but mother anddaughter stood opposite to each other."Am I looking at my own image in the deep water?" said the mother."Is it myself that I see represented on a white shield?" cried thedaughter.Then they came nearer to each other in a fond embrace. Themother's heart beat quickly, and she understood the quickenedpulses. "My child!" she exclaimed, "the flower of my heart my lotusflower of the deep water!" and she embraced her child again andwept, and the tears were as a baptism of new life and love forHelga. "In swan's plumage I came here," said the mother, "and here Ithrew off my feather dress. Then I sank down through the waveringground, deep into the marsh beneath, which closed like a wall aroundme. I found myself after a while in fresher water. still a powerdrew me down deeper and deeper. I felt the weight of sleep upon myeyelids. Then I slept, and dreams hovered round me. It seemed to me asif I were again in the pyramids of Egypt, and yet the waving eldertrunk that had frightened me on the moor stood ever before me. Iobserved the clefts and wrinkles in the stem. they shone forth instrange colors, and took the form of hieroglyphics. It was the mummycase on which I gazed. At last it burst, and forth stepped thethousand years' old king, the mummy form, black as pitch, black as theshining wood snail, or the slimy mud of the swamp. Whether it wasreally the mummy or the Marsh King I know not. He seized me in hisarms, and I felt as if I must die. When I recovered myself, I found inmy bosom a little bird, flapping its wings, twittering and fluttering.The bird flew away from my bosom, upwards towards the dark, heavycanopy above me, but a long, green band kept it fastened to me. Iheard and understood the tenor of its longings. Freedom! sunlight!to my father! Then I thought of my father, and the sunny land of mybirth, my life, and my love. Then I loosened the band, and let thebird fly away to its home to a father. Since that hour I haveceased to dream. my sleep has been long and heavy, till in this veryhour, harmony and fragrance awoke me, and set me free."The green band which fastened the wings of the bird to themother's heart, where did it flutter now? whither had it beenwafted? The stork only had seen it. The band was the green stalk,the cup of the flower the cradle in which lay the child, that now inblooming beauty had been folded to the mother's heart.And while the two were resting in each other's arms, the old storkflew round and round them in narrowing circles, till at length he flewaway swiftly to his nest, and fetched away the two suits of swan'sfeathers, which he had preserved there for many years. Then hereturned to the mother and daughter, and threw the swan's plumage overthem. the feathers immediately closed around them, and they rose upfrom the earth in the form of two white swans."And now we can converse with pleasure," said the stork papa."we can understand one another, although the beaks of birds are sodifferent in shape. It is very fortunate that you came to night.To morrow we should have been gone. The mother, myself and thelittle ones, we're about to fly to the south. Look at me now: I aman old friend from the Nile, and a mother's heart contains more thanher beak. She always said that the princess would know how to helpherself. I and the young ones carried the swan's feathers over here,and I am glad of it now, and how lucky it is that I am here still.When the day dawns we shall start with a great company of otherstorks. We'll fly first, and you can follow in our track, so thatyou cannot miss your way. I and the young ones will have an eye uponyou.""And the lotus flower which I was to take with me," said theEgyptian princess, "is flying here by my side, clothed in swan'sfeathers. The flower of my heart will travel with me. and so theriddle is solved. Now for home! now for home!"But Helga said she could not leave the Danish land without oncemore seeing her foster mother, the loving wife of the Viking. Eachpleasing recollection, each kind word, every tear from the heart whichher foster mother had wept for her, rose in her mind, and at thatmoment she felt as if she loved this mother the best."Yes, we must go to the Viking's castle," said the stork."mother and the young ones are waiting for me there. How they willopen their eyes and flap their wings! My wife, you see, does not saymuch. she is short and abrupt in her manner. but she means well, forall that. I will flap my wings at once, that they may hear us coming."Then stork papa flapped his wings in first rate style, and he andthe swans flew away to the Viking's castle.In the castle, every one was in a deep sleep. It had been latein the evening before the Viking's wife retired to rest. She wasanxious about Helga, who, three days before, had vanished with theChristian priest. Helga must have helped him in his flight, for it washer horse that was missed from the stable. but by what power had allthis been accomplished? The Viking's wife thought of it with wonder,thought on the miracles which they said could be performed by thosewho believed in the Christian faith, and followed its teachings. Thesepassing thoughts formed themselves into a vivid dream, and it seemedto her that she was still lying awake on her couch, while withoutdarkness reigned. A storm arose. she heard the lake dashing androlling from east and west, like the waves of the North Sea or theCattegat. The monstrous snake which, it is said, surrounds the earthin the depths of the ocean, was trembling in spasmodic convulsions.The night of the fall of the gods was come, "Ragnorock," as theheathens call the judgment day, when everything shall pass away,even the high gods themselves. The war trumpet sounded. riding uponthe rainbow, came the gods, clad in steel, to fight their lastbattle on the last battle field. Before them flew the winged vampires,and the dead warriors closed up the train. The whole firmament wasablaze with the northern lights, and yet the darkness triumphed. Itwas a terrible hour. And, close to the terrified woman, Helga seemedto be seated on the floor, in the hideous form of a frog, yettrembling, and clinging to her foster mother, who took her on her lap,and lovingly caressed her, hideous and frog like as she was. The airwas filled with the clashing of arms and the hissing of arrows, asif a storm of hail was descending upon the earth. It seemed to her thehour when earth and sky would burst asunder, and all things beswallowed up in Saturn's fiery lake. but she knew that a new heavenand a new earth would arise, and that corn fields would wave where nowthe lake rolled over desolate sands, and the ineffable God reign. Thenshe saw rising from the region of the dead, Baldur the gentle, theloving, and as the Viking's wife gazed upon him, she recognized hiscountenance. It was the captive Christian priest. "White Christian!"she exclaimed aloud, and with the words, she pressed a kiss on theforehead of the hideous frog child. Then the frog skin fell off, andHelga stood before her in all her beauty, more lovely andgentle looking, and with eyes beaming with love. She kissed thehands of her foster mother, blessed her for all her fostering love andcare during the days of her trial and misery, for the thoughts she hadsuggested and awoke in her heart, and for naming the Name which shenow repeated. Then beautiful Helga rose as a mighty swan, and spreadher wings with the rushing sound of troops of birds of passageflying through the air.Then the Viking's wife awoke, but she still heard the rushingsound without. She knew it was the time for the storks to depart,and that it must be their wings which she heard. She felt she shouldlike to see them once more, and bid them farewell. She rose from hercouch, stepped out on the threshold, and beheld, on the ridge of theroof, a party of storks ranged side by side. Troops of the birdswere flying in circles over the castle and the highest trees. but justbefore her, as she stood on the threshold and close to the wellwhere Helga had so often sat and alarmed her with her wildness, nowstood two swans, gazing at her with intelligent eyes. Then sheremembered her dream, which still appeared to her as a reality. Shethought of Helga in the form of a swan. She thought of a Christianpriest, and suddenly a wonderful joy arose in her heart. The swansflapped their wings and arched their necks as if to offer her agreeting, and the Viking's wife spread out her arms towards them, asif she accepted it, and smiled through her tears. She was rousedfrom deep thought by a rustling of wings and snapping of beaks. allthe storks arose, and started on their journey towards the south."We will not wait for the swans," said the mamma stork. "if theywant to go with us, let them come now. we can't sit here till theplovers start. It is a fine thing after all to travel in families, notlike the finches and the partridges. There the male and the femalebirds fly in separate flocks, which, to speak candidly, I considervery unbecoming.""What are those swans flapping their wings for?""Well, every one flies in his own fashion," said the papa stork."The swans fly in an oblique line. the cranes, in the form of atriangle. and the plovers, in a curved line like a snake.""Don't talk about snakes while we are flying up here," saidstork mamma. "It puts ideas into the children's heads that can notbe realized.""Are those the high mountains I have heard spoken of?" askedHelga, in the swan's plumage."They are storm clouds driving along beneath us," replied hermother."What are yonder white clouds that rise so high?" again inquiredHelga."Those are mountains covered with perpetual snows, that you seeyonder," said her mother. And then they flew across the Alps towardsthe blue Mediterranean."Africa's land! Egyptia's strand!" sang the daughter of theNile, in her swan's plumage, as from the upper air she caught sight ofher native land, a narrow, golden, wavy strip on the shores of theNile. the other birds espied it also and hastened their flight."I can smell the Nile mud and the wet frogs," said thestork mamma, "and I begin to feel quite hungry. Yes, now you shalltaste something nice, and you will see the marabout bird, and theibis, and the crane. They all belong to our family, but they are notnearly so handsome as we are. They give themselves great airs,especially the ibis. The Egyptians have spoilt him. They make amummy of him, and stuff him with spices. I would rather be stuffedwith live frogs, and so would you, and so you shall. Better havesomething in your inside while you are alive, than to be made a paradeof after you are dead. That is my opinion, and I am always right.""The storks are come," was said in the great house on the banks ofthe Nile, where the lord lay in the hall on his downy cushions,covered with a leopard skin, scarcely alive, yet not dead, waiting andhoping for the lotus flower from the deep moorland in the far north.Relatives and servants were standing by his couch, when the twobeautiful swans who had come with the storks flew into the hall.They threw off their soft white plumage, and two lovely female formsapproached the pale, sick old man, and threw back their long hair, andwhen Helga bent over her grandfather, redness came back to his cheeks,his eyes brightened, and life returned to his benumbed limbs. Theold man rose up with health and energy renewed. daughter andgrandchild welcomed him as joyfully as if with a morning greetingafter a long and troubled dream.Joy reigned through the whole house, as well as in the stork'snest. although there the chief cause was really the good food,especially the quantities of frogs, which seemed to spring out ofthe ground in swarms.Then the learned men hastened to note down, in flyingcharacters, the story of the two princesses, and spoke of thearrival of the health giving flower as a mighty event, which hadbeen a blessing to the house and the land. Meanwhile, the stork papatold the story to his family in his own way. but not till they hadeaten and were satisfied. otherwise they would have had something elseto do than to listen to stories."Well," said the stork mamma, when she had heard it, "you willbe made something of at last. I suppose they can do nothing less.""What could I be made?" said stork papa. "what have I done? justnothing.""You have done more than all the rest," she replied. "But foryou and the youngsters the two young princesses would never haveseen Egypt again, and the recovery of the old man would not havebeen effected. You will become something. They must certainly give youa doctor's hood, and our young ones will inherit it, and theirchildren after them, and so on. You already look like an Egyptiandoctor, at least in my eyes.""I cannot quite remember the words I heard when I listened onthe roof," said stork papa, while relating the story to his family."all I know is, that what the wise men said was so complicated andso learned, that they received not only rank, but presents. even thehead cook at the great house was honored with a mark of distinction,most likely for the soup.""And what did you receive?" said the stork mamma. "Theycertainly ought not to forget the most important person in the affair,as you really are. The learned men have done nothing at all but usetheir tongues. Surely they will not overlook you."Late in the night, while the gentle sleep of peace rested on thenow happy house, there was still one watcher. It was not stork papa,who, although he stood on guard on one leg, could sleep soundly. Helgaalone was awake. She leaned over the balcony, gazing at thesparkling stars that shone clearer and brighter in the pure air thanthey had done in the north, and yet they were the same stars. Shethought of the Viking's wife in the wild moorland, of the gentleeyes of her foster mother, and of the tears she had shed over the poorfrog child that now lived in splendor and starry beauty by thewaters of the Nile, with air balmy and sweet as spring. She thought ofthe love that dwelt in the breast of the heathen woman, love thathad been shown to a wretched creature, hateful as a human being, andhideous when in the form of an animal. She looked at the glitteringstars, and thought of the radiance that had shone forth on theforehead of the dead man, as she had fled with him over the woodlandand moor. Tones were awakened in her memory. words which she had heardhim speak as they rode onward, when she was carried, wondering andtrembling, through the air. words from the great Fountain of love, thehighest love that embraces all the human race. What had not been wonand achieved by this love?Day and night beautiful Helga was absorbed in the contemplation ofthe great amount of her happiness, and lost herself in thecontemplation, like a child who turns hurriedly from the giver toexamine the beautiful gifts. She was over powered with her goodfortune, which seemed always increasing, and therefore what might itbecome in the future? Had she not been brought by a wonderfulmiracle to all this joy and happiness? And in these thoughts sheindulged, until at last she thought no more of the Giver. It was theover abundance of youthful spirits unfolding its wings for a daringflight. Her eyes sparkled with energy, when suddenly arose a loudnoise in the court below, and the daring thought vanished. Shelooked down, and saw two large ostriches running round quickly innarrow circles. she had never seen these creatures before, great,coarse, clumsy looking birds with curious wings that looked as if theyhad been clipped, and the birds themselves had the appearance ofhaving been roughly used. She inquired about them, and for the firsttime heard the legend which the Egyptians relate respecting theostrich.Once, say they, the ostriches were a beautiful and glorious raceof birds, with large, strong wings. One evening the other largebirds of the forest said to the ostrich, "Brother, shall we fly to theriver to morrow morning to drink, God willing?" and the ostrichanswered, "I will."With the break of day, therefore, they commenced their flight.first rising high in the air, towards the sun, which is the eye ofGod. still higher and higher the ostrich flew, far above the otherbirds, proudly approaching the light, trusting in its own strength,and thinking not of the Giver, or saying, "if God will." When suddenlythe avenging angel drew back the veil from the flaming ocean ofsunlight, and in a moment the wings of the proud bird were scorchedand shrivelled, and they sunk miserably to the earth. Since thattime the ostrich and his race have never been able to rise in the air.they can only fly terror stricken along the ground, or run round andround in narrow circles. It is a warning to mankind, that in all ourthoughts and schemes, and in every action we undertake, we should say,"if God will."Then Helga bowed her head thoughtfully and seriously, and lookedat the circling ostrich, as with timid fear and simple pleasure itglanced at its own great shadow on the sunlit walls. And the storyof the ostrich sunk deeply into the heart and mind of Helga: a life ofhappiness, both in the present and in the future, seemed secure forher, and what was yet to come might be the best of all, God willing.Early in the spring, when the storks were again about to journeynorthward, beautiful Helga took off her golden bracelets, scratchedher name on them, and beckoned to the stork father. He came to her,and she placed the golden circlet round his neck, and begged him todeliver it safely to the Viking's wife, so that she might know thather foster daughter still lived, was happy, and had not forgotten her."It is rather heavy to carry," thought stork papa, when he hadit on his neck. "but gold and honor are not to be flung into thestreet. The stork brings good fortune they'll be obliged toacknowledge that at last.""You lay gold, and I lay eggs," said stork mamma. "with you itis only once in a way, I lay eggs every year But no one appreciateswhat we do. I call it very mortifying.""But then we have a consciousness of our own worth, mother,"replied stork papa."What good will that do you?" retorted stork mamma. "it willneither bring you a fair wind, nor a good meal.""The little nightingale, who is singing yonder in the tamarindgrove, will soon be going north, too." Helga said she had oftenheard her singing on the wild moor, so she determined to send amessage by her. While flying in the swan's plumage she had learntthe bird language. she had often conversed with the stork and theswallow, and she knew that the nightingale would understand. So shebegged the nightingale to fly to the beechwood, on the peninsula ofJutland, where a mound of stone and twigs had been raised to formthe grave, and she begged the nightingale to persuade all the otherlittle birds to build their nests round the place, so that evermoreshould resound over that grave music and song. And the nightingaleflew away, and time flew away also.In the autumn, an eagle, standing upon a pyramid, saw a statelytrain of richly laden camels, and men attired in armor on foamingArabian steeds, whose glossy skins shone like silver, their nostrilswere pink, and their thick, flowing manes hung almost to their slenderlegs. A royal prince of Arabia, handsome as a prince should be, andaccompanied by distinguished guests, was on his way to the statelyhouse, on the roof of which the storks' empty nests might be seen.They were away now in the far north, but expected to return very soon.And, indeed, they returned on a day that was rich in joy and gladness.A marriage was being celebrated, in which the beautiful Helga,glittering in silk and jewels, was the bride, and the bridegroom theyoung Arab prince. Bride and bridegroom sat at the upper end of thetable, between the bride's mother and grandfather. But her gaze wasnot on the bridegroom, with his manly, sunburnt face, round whichcurled a black beard, and whose dark fiery eyes were fixed upon her.but away from him, at a twinkling star, that shone down upon herfrom the sky. Then was heard the sound of rushing wings beating theair. The storks were coming home. and the old stork pair, althoughtired with the journey and requiring rest, did not fail to fly down atonce to the balustrades of the verandah, for they knew already whatfeast was being celebrated. They had heard of it on the borders of theland, and also that Helga had caused their figures to be representedon the walls, for they belonged to her history."I call that very sensible and pretty," said stork papa."Yes, but it is very little," said mamma stork. "they could notpossibly have done less."But, when Helga saw them, she rose and went out into theverandah to stroke the backs of the storks. The old stork pair bowedtheir heads, and curved their necks, and even the youngest among theyoung ones felt honored by this reception.Helga continued to gaze upon the glittering star, which seemedto glow brighter and purer in its light. then between herself andthe star floated a form, purer than the air, and visible through it.It floated quite near to her, and she saw that it was the deadChristian priest, who also was coming to her wedding feast comingfrom the heavenly kingdom."The glory and brightness, yonder, outshines all that is knownon earth," said he.Then Helga the fair prayed more gently, and more earnestly, thanshe had ever prayed in her life before, that she might be permitted togaze, if only for a single moment, at the glory and brightness ofthe heavenly kingdom. Then she felt herself lifted up, as it were,above the earth, through a sea of sound and thought. not only aroundher, but within her, was there light and song, such as words cannotexpress."Now we must return." he said. "you will be missed.""Only one more look," she begged. "but one short moment more.""We must return to earth. the guests will have all departed.Only one more look! the last!"Then Helga stood again in the verandah. But the marriage lampsin the festive hall had been all extinguished, and the torches outsidehad vanished. The storks were gone. not a guest could be seen. nobridegroom all in those few short moments seemed to have died. Then agreat dread fell upon her. She stepped from the verandah through theempty hall into the next chamber, where slept strange warriors. Sheopened a side door, which once led into her own apartment, but now, asshe passed through, she found herself suddenly in a garden which shehad never before seen here, the sky blushed red, it was the dawn ofmorning. Three minutes only in heaven, and a whole night on earthhad passed away! Then she saw the storks, and called to them intheir own language.Then stork papa turned his head towards here, listened to herwords, and drew near. "You speak our language," said he, "what doyou wish? Why do you appear, you a strange woman?""It is I it is Helga! Dost thou not know me? Three minutes ago wewere speaking together yonder in the verandah.""That is a mistake," said the stork, "you must have dreamed allthis.""No, no," she exclaimed. Then she reminded him of the Viking'scastle, of the great lake, and of the journey across the ocean.Then stork papa winked his eyes, and said, "Why that's an oldstory which happened in the time of my grandfather. There certainlywas a princess of that kind here in Egypt once, who came from theDanish land, but she vanished on the evening of her wedding day,many hundred years ago, and never came back. You may read about ityourself yonder, on a monument in the garden. There you will findswans and storks sculptured, and on the top is a figure of theprincess Helga, in marble."And so it was. Helga understood it all now, and sank on her knees.The sun burst forth in all its glory, and, as in olden times, the formof the frog vanished in his beams, and the beautiful form stoodforth in all its loveliness. so now, bathed in light, rose a beautifulform, purer, clearer than air a ray of brightness from the Source oflight Himself. The body crumbled into dust, and a faded lotus flowerlay on the spot on which Helga had stood."Now that is a new ending to the story," said stork papa. "Ireally never expected it would end in this way, but it seems a verygood ending.""And what will the young ones say to it, I wonder?" saidstork mamma."Ah, that is a very important question," replied the stork.