Once upon a time there lived a queen whose heart was sore because shehad no children. She was sad enough when her husband was at home withher, but when he was away she would see nobody, but sat and wept all daylong.Now it happened that a war broke out with the king of a neighbouringcountry, and the queen was left in the palace alone.She was so unhappy that she felt as if the walls would stifle her, soshe wandered out into the garden, and threw herself down on a grassybank, under the shade of a lime tree. She had been there for some time,when a rustle among the leaves caused her to look up, and she saw an oldwoman limping on her crutches towards the stream that flowed through thegrounds.When she had quenched her thirst, she came straight up to the queen, andsaid to her: 'Do not take it evil, noble lady, that I dare to speak toyou, and do not be afraid of me, for it may be that I shall bring yougood luck.'The queen looked at her doubtfully, and answered: 'You do not seem as ifyou had been very lucky yourself, or to have much good fortune to sparefor anyone else.''Under rough bark lies smooth wood and sweet kernel,' replied the oldwoman. 'Let me see your hand, that I may read the future.'The queen held out her hand, and the old woman examined its linesclosely. Then she said, 'Your heart is heavy with two sorrows, one oldand one new. The new sorrow is for your husband, who is fighting faraway from you. but, believe me, he is well, and will soon bring youjoyful news. But your other sorrow is much older than this. Yourhappiness is spoilt because you have no children.' At these words thequeen became scarlet, and tried to draw away her hand, but the old womansaid:'Have a little patience, for there are some things I want to see moreclearly.''But who are you?' asked the queen, 'for you seem to be able to read myheart.''Never mind my name,' answered she, 'but rejoice that it is permitted tome to show you a way to lessen your grief. You must, however, promise todo exactly what I tell you, if any good is to come of it.''Oh, I will obey you exactly,' cried the queen, 'and if you can help meyou shall have in return anything you ask for.'The old woman stood thinking for a little: then she drew something fromthe folds of her dress, and, undoing a number of wrappings, brought outa tiny basket made of birch bark. She held it out to the queen, saying,'In the basket you will find a bird's egg. This you must be careful tokeep in a warm place for three months, when it will turn into a doll.Lay the doll in a basket lined with soft wool, and leave it alone, forit will not need any food, and by and by you will find it has grown tobe the size of a baby. Then you will have a baby of your own, and youmust put it by the side of the other child, and bring your husband tosee his son and daughter. The boy you will bring up yourself, but youmust entrust the little girl to a nurse. When the time comes to havethem christened you will invite me to be godmother to the princess, andthis is how you must send the invitation. Hidden in the cradle, you willfind a goose's wing: throw this out of the window, and I will be withyou directly. but be sure you tell no one of all the things that havebefallen you.'The queen was about to reply, but the old woman was already limpingaway, and before she had gone two steps she had turned into a younggirl, who moved so quickly that she seemed rather to fly than to walk.The queen, watching this transformation, could hardly believe her eyes,and would have taken it all for a dream, had it not been for the basketwhich she held in her hand. Feeling a different being from the poorsad woman who had wandered into the garden so short a time before, shehastened to her room, and felt carefully in the basket for the egg.There it was, a tiny thing of soft blue with little green spots, and shetook it out and kept it in her bosom, which was the warmest place shecould think of.A fortnight after the old woman had paid her visit, the king came home,having conquered his enemies. At this proof that the old woman hadspoken truth, the queen's heart bounded, for she now had fresh hopesthat the rest of the prophecy might be fulfilled.She cherished the basket and the egg as her chiefest treasures, and hada golden case made for the basket, so that when the time came to lay theegg in it, it might not risk any harm.Three months passed, and, as the old woman had bidden her, the queentook the egg from her bosom, and laid it snugly amidst the warm woollenfolds. The next morning she went to look at it, and the first thing shesaw was the broken eggshell, and a little doll lying among the pieces.Then she felt happy at last, and leaving the doll in peace to grow,waited, as she had been told, for a baby of her own to lay beside it.In course of time, this came also, and the queen took the little girlout of the basket, and placed it with her son in a golden cradle whichglittered with precious stones. Next she sent for the king, who nearlywent mad with joy at the sight of the children.Soon there came a day when the whole court was ordered to be present atthe christening of the royal babies, and when all was ready the queensoftly opened the window a little, and let the goose wing fly out.The guests were coming thick and fast, when suddenly there drove up asplendid coach drawn by six cream coloured horses, and out of it steppeda young lady dressed in garments that shone like the sun. Her face couldnot be seen, for a veil covered her head, but as she came up to theplace where the queen was standing with the babies she drew the veilaside, and everyone was dazzled with her beauty. She took the littlegirl in her arms, and holding it up before the assembled companyannounced that henceforward it would be known by the name ofDotterine a name which no one understood but the queen, who knew thatthe baby had come from the yolk of an egg. The boy was called Willem.After the feast was over and the guests were going away, the godmotherlaid the baby in the cradle, and said to the queen, 'Whenever the babygoes to sleep, be sure you lay the basket beside her, and leave theeggshells in it. As long as you do that, no evil can come to her. soguard this treasure as the apple of your eye, and teach your daughterto do so likewise.' Then, kissing the baby three times, she mounted hercoach and drove away.The children throve well, and Dotterine's nurse loved her as if shewere the baby's real mother. Every day the little girl seemed to growprettier, and people used to say she would soon be as beautiful as hergodmother, but no one knew, except the nurse, that at night, when thechild slept, a strange and lovely lady bent over her. At length she toldthe queen what she had seen, but they determined to keep it as a secretbetween themselves.The twins were by this time nearly two years old, when the queen wastaken suddenly ill. All the best doctors in the country were sent for,but it was no use, for there is no cure for death. The queen knew shewas dying, and sent for Dotterine and her nurse, who had now becomeher lady in waiting. To her, as her most faithful servant, she gave thelucky basket in charge, and besought her to treasure it carefully. 'Whenmy daughter,' said the queen, 'is ten years old, you are to hand it overto her, but warn her solemnly that her whole future happiness depends onthe way she guards it. About my son, I have no fears. He is the heir ofthe kingdom, and his father will look after him.' The lady in waitingpromised to carry out the queen's directions, and above all to keep theaffair a secret. And that same morning the queen died.After some years the king married again, but he did not love his secondwife as he had done his first, and had only married her for reasons ofambition. She hated her step children, and the king, seeing this, keptthem out of the way, under the care of Dotterine's old nurse. But ifthey ever strayed across the path of the queen, she would kick them outof her sight like dogs.On Dotterine's tenth birthday her nurse handed her over the cradle, andrepeated to her her mother's dying words. but the child was too young tounderstand the value of such a gift, and at first thought little aboutit.Two more years slipped by, when one day during the king's absence thestepmother found Dotterine sitting under a lime tree. She fell asusual into a passion, and beat the child so badly that Dotterine wentstaggering to her own room. Her nurse was not there, but suddenly, asshe stood weeping, her eyes fell upon the golden case in which lay theprecious basket. She thought it might contain something to amuse her,and looked eagerly inside, but nothing was there save a handful of wooland two empty eggshells. Very much disappointed, she lifted the wool,and there lay the goose's wing. 'What old rubbish,' said the child toherself, and, turning, threw the wing out of the open window.In a moment a beautiful lady stood beside her. 'Do not be afraid,' saidthe lady, stroking Dotterine's head. 'I am your godmother, and have cometo pay you a visit. Your red eyes tell me that you are unhappy. I knowthat your stepmother is very unkind to you, but be brave and patient,and better days will come. She will have no power over you when you aregrown up, and no one else can hurt you either, if only you are carefulnever to part from your basket, or to lose the eggshells that are in it.Make a silken case for the little basket, and hide it away in your dressnight and day and you will be safe from your stepmother and anyone thattries to harm you. But if you should happen to find yourself in anydifficulty, and cannot tell what to do, take the goose's wing from thebasket, and throw it out of the window, and in a moment I will come tohelp you. Now come into the garden, that I may talk to you under thelime trees, where no one can hear us.'They had so much to say to each other, that the sun was already settingwhen the godmother had ended all the good advice she wished to give thechild, and saw it was time for her to be going. 'Hand me the basket,'said she, 'for you must have some supper. I cannot let you go hungry tobed.'Then, bending over the basket, she whispered some magic words, andinstantly a table covered with fruits and cakes stood on the groundbefore them. When they had finished eating, the godmother led the childback, and on the way taught her the words she must say to the basketwhen she wanted it to give her something.In a few years more, Dotterine was a grown up young lady, and those whosaw her thought that the world did not contain so lovely a girl.About this time a terrible war broke out, and the king and his army werebeaten back and back, till at length they had to retire into the town,and make ready for a siege. It lasted so long that food began to fail,and even in the palace there was not enough to eat.So one morning Dotterine, who had had neither supper nor breakfast,and was feeling very hungry, let her wing fly away. She was so weak andmiserable, that directly her godmother appeared she burst into tears,and could not speak for some time.'Do not cry so, dear child,' said the godmother. 'I will carry you awayfrom all this, but the others I must leave to take their chance.' Then,bidding Dotterine follow her, she passed through the gates of the town,and through the army outside, and nobody stopped them, or seemed to seethem.The next day the town surrendered, and the king and all his courtierswere taken prisoners, but in the confusion his son managed to make hisescape. The queen had already met her death from a spear carelesslythrown.As soon as Dotterine and her godmother were clear of the enemy,Dotterine took off her own clothes, and put on those of a peasant,and in order to disguise her better her godmother changed her facecompletely. 'When better times come,' her protectress said cheerfully,'and you want to look like yourself again, you have only to whisper thewords I have taught you into the basket, and say you would like to haveyour own face once more, and it will be all right in a moment. But youwill have to endure a little longer yet.' Then, warning her once more totake care of the basket, the lady bade the girl farewell.For many days Dotterine wandered from one place to another withoutfinding shelter, and though the food which she got from the basketprevented her from starving, she was glad enough to take service in apeasant's house till brighter days dawned. At first the work she hadto do seemed very difficult, but either she was wonderfully quick inlearning, or else the basket may have secretly helped her. Anyhow at theend of three days she could do everything as well as if she had cleanedpots and swept rooms all her life.One morning Dotterine was busy scouring a wooden tub, when a noble ladyhappened to pass through the village. The girl's bright face as shestood in the front of the door with her tub attracted the lady, and shestopped and called the girl to come and speak to her.'Would you not like to come and enter my service?' she asked.'Very much,' replied Dotterine, 'if my present mistress will allow me.''Oh, I will settle that,' answered the lady. and so she did, and thesame day they set out for the lady's house, Dotterine sitting beside thecoachman.Six months went by, and then came the joyful news that the king's sonhad collected an army and had defeated the usurper who had taken hisfather's place, but at the same moment Dotterine learned that the oldking had died in captivity. The girl wept bitterly for his loss, but insecrecy, as she had told her mistress nothing about her past life.At the end of a year of mourning, the young king let it be known that heintended to marry, and commanded all the maidens in the kingdom to cometo a feast, so that he might choose a wife from among them. For weeksall the mothers and all the daughters in the land were busy preparingbeautiful dresses and trying new ways of putting up their hair, and thethree lovely daughters of Dotterine's mistress were as much excited asthe rest. The girl was clever with her fingers, and was occupied all daywith getting ready their smart clothes, but at night when she went tobed she always dreamed that her godmother bent over her and said, 'Dressyour young ladies for the feast, and when they have started follow themyourself. Nobody will be so fine as you.'When the great day came, Dotterine could hardly contain herself, andwhen she had dressed her young mistresses and seen them depart withtheir mother she flung herself on her bed, and burst into tears. Thenshe seemed to hear a voice whisper to her, 'Look in your basket, and youwill find in it everything that you need.'Dotterine did not want to be told twice! Up she jumped, seized herbasket, and repeated the magic words, and behold! there lay a dress onthe bed, shining as a star. She put it on with fingers that trembledwith joy, and, looking in the glass, was struck dumb at her own beauty.She went downstairs, and in front of the door stood a fine carriage,into which she stepped and was driven away like the wind.The king's palace was a long way off, yet it seemed only a few minutesbefore Dotterine drew up at the great gates. She was just going toalight, when she suddenly remembered she had left her basket behind her.What was she to do? Go back and fetch it, lest some ill fortune shouldbefall her, or enter the palace and trust to chance that nothing evilwould happen? But before she could decide, a little swallow flew up withthe basket in its beak, and the girl was happy again.The feast was already at its height, and the hall was brilliant withyouth and beauty, when the door was flung wide and Dotterine entered,making all the other maidens look pale and dim beside her. Their hopesfaded as they gazed, but their mothers whispered together, saying,'Surely this is our lost princess!'The young king did not know her again, but he never left her side nortook his eyes from her. And at midnight a strange thing happened. Athick cloud suddenly filled the hall, so that for a moment all was dark.Then the mist suddenly grew bright, and Dotterine's godmother was seenstanding there.'This,' she said, turning to the king, 'is the girl whom you have alwaysbelieved to be your sister, and who vanished during the siege. She isnot your sister at all, but the daughter of the king of a neighbouringcountry, who was given to your mother to bring up, to save her from thehands of a wizard.'Then she vanished, and was never seen again, nor the wonder workingbasket either. but now that Dotterine's troubles were over she could geton without them, and she and the young king lived happily together tillthe end of their days.(Ehstnische Marchen.)