There were formerly a king and a queen, who were so sorry that they hadno children. so sorry that it cannot be expressed. They went to all thewaters in the world. vows, pilgrimages, all ways were tried, and all to nopurpose.At last, however, the queen had a daughter. There was a very finechristening. and the princess had for her godmothers all the fairies theycould find in the whole kingdom (they found seven), that every one of themmight give her a gift, as was the custom of fairies in those days. By thismeans the princess had all the perfections imaginable.After the ceremonies of the christening were over, all the companyreturned to the king's palace, where was prepared a great feast for thefairies. There was placed before every one of them a magnificent coverwith a case of massive gold, wherein were a spoon, knife, and fork, all ofpure gold set with diamonds and rubies. But as they were all sitting downat table they saw come into the hall a very old fairy, whom they had notinvited, because it was above fifty years since she had been out of acertain tower, and she was believed to be either dead or enchanted.The king ordered her a cover, but could not furnish her with a case ofgold as the others, because they had only seven made for the sevenfairies. The old fairy fancied she was slighted, and muttered some threatsbetween her teeth. One of the young fairies who sat by her overheard howshe grumbled. and, judging that she might give the little princess someunlucky gift, went, as soon as they rose from table, and hid herselfbehind the hangings, that she might speak last, and repair, as much as shecould, the evil which the old fairy might intend.In the meanwhile all the fairies began to give their gifts to theprincess. The youngest gave her for gift that she should be the mostbeautiful person in the world. the next, that she should have the wit ofan angel. the third, that she should have a wonderful grace in everythingshe did. the fourth, that she should dance perfectly well. the fifth, thatshe should sing like a nightingale. and the sixth, that she should playall kinds of music to the utmost perfection.The old fairy's turn coming next, with a head shaking more with spitethan age, she said that the princess should have her hand pierced with aspindle and die of the wound. This terrible gift made the whole companytremble, and everybody fell a crying.At this very instant the young fairy came out from behind the hangings,and spake these words aloud: "Assure yourselves, O King and Queen, thatyour daughter shall not die of this disaster. It is true, I have no powerto undo entirely what my elder has done. The princess shall indeed pierceher hand with a spindle. but, instead of dying, she shall only fall into aprofound sleep, which shall last a hundred years, at the expiration ofwhich a king's son shall come and awake her."The king, to avoid the misfortune foretold by the old fairy, causedimmediately proclamation to be made, whereby everybody was forbidden, onpain of death, to spin with a distaff and spindle, or to have so much asany spindle in their houses. About fifteen or sixteen years after, theking and queen being gone to one of their houses of pleasure, the youngprincess happened one day to divert herself in running up and down thepalace. when going up from one apartment to another, she came into alittle room on the top of the tower, where a good old woman, alone, wasspinning with her spindle. This good woman had never heard of the king'sproclamation against spindles."What are you doing there, goody?" said the princess."I am spinning, my pretty child," said the old woman, who did not knowwho she was."Ha!" said the princess, "this is very pretty. how do you do it? Giveit to me, that I may see if I can do so."She had no sooner taken it into her hand than, whether being very hastyat it, somewhat unhandy, or that the decree of the fairy had so ordainedit, it ran into her hand, and she fell down in a swoon.The good old woman, not knowing very well what to do in this affair,cried out for help. People came in from every quarter in great numbers.they threw water upon the princess's face, unlaced her, struck her on thepalms of her hands, and rubbed her temples with Hungary water. but nothingwould bring her to herself.And now the king, who came up at the noise, bethought himself of theprediction of the fairies, and, judging very well that this mustnecessarily come to pass, since the fairies had said it, caused theprincess to be carried into the finest apartment in his palace, and to belaid upon a bed all embroidered with gold and silver.One would have taken her for a little angel, she was so very beautiful.for her swooning away had not diminished one bit of her complexion. hercheeks were carnation, and her lips were coral. indeed, her eyes wereshut, but she was heard to breathe softly, which satisfied those about herthat she was not dead. The king commanded that they should not disturbher, but let her sleep quietly till her hour of awaking was come.The good fairy who had saved her life by condemning her to sleep ahundred years was in the kingdom of Matakin, twelve thousand leagues off,when this accident befell the princess. but she was instantly informed ofit by a little dwarf, who had boots of seven leagues, that is, boots withwhich he could tread over seven leagues of ground in one stride. The fairycame away immediately, and she arrived, about an hour after, in a fierychariot drawn by dragons.The king handed her out of the chariot, and she approved everything hehad done, but as she had very great foresight, she thought when theprincess should awake she might not know what to do with herself, beingall alone in this old palace. and this was what she did: she touched withher wand everything in the palace (except the king and queen)  governesses, maids of honor, ladies of the bedchamber, gentlemen,officers, stewards, cooks, undercooks, scullions, guards, with theirbeefeaters, pages, footmen. she likewise touched all the horses which werein the stables, pads as well as others, the great dogs in the outwardcourt and pretty little Mopsey too, the princess's little spaniel, whichlay by her on the bed.Immediately upon her touching them they all fell asleep, that theymight not awake before their mistress and that they might be ready to waitupon her when she wanted them. The very spits at the fire, as full as theycould hold of partridges and pheasants, did fall asleep also. All this wasdone in a moment. Fairies are not long in doing their business.And now the king and the queen, having kissed their dear child withoutwaking her, went out of the palace and put forth a proclamation thatnobody should dare to come near it.This, however, was not necessary, for in a quarter of an hour's timethere grew up all round about the park such a vast number of trees, greatand small, bushes and brambles, twining one within another, that neitherman nor beast could pass through. so that nothing could be seen but thevery top of the towers of the palace. and that, too, not unless it was agood way off. Nobody. doubted but the fairy gave herein a veryextraordinary sample of her art, that the princess, while she continuedsleeping, might have nothing to fear from any curious people.When a hundred years were gone and passed the son of the king thenreigning, and who was of another family from that of the sleepingprincess, being gone a hunting on that side of the country, asked:What those towers were which he saw in the middle of a great thickwood?Everyone answered according as they had heard. Some said that it was aruinous old castle, haunted by spirits.Others, that all the sorcerers and witches of the country kept theretheir sabbath or night's meeting.The common opinion was that an ogre lived there, and that he carriedthither all the little children he could catch, that he might eat them upat his leisure, without anybody being able to follow him, as havinghimself only the power to pass through the wood.The prince was at a stand, not knowing what to believe, when a verygood countryman spake to him thus: "May it please your royal highness, itis now about fifty years since I heard from my father, who heard mygrandfather say, that there was then in this castle a princess, the mostbeautiful was ever seen. that she must sleep there a hundred years, andshould be waked by a king's son, for whom she was reserved."The young prince was all on fire at these words, believing, withoutweighing the matter, that he could put an end to this rare adventure. and,pushed on by love and honor, resolved that moment to look into it.Scarce had he advanced toward the wood when all the great trees, thebushes, and brambles gave way of themselves to let him pass through. hewalked up to the castle which he saw at the end of a large avenue which hewent into. and what a little surprised him was that he saw none of hispeople could follow him, because the trees closed again as soon as he hadpassed through them. However, he did not cease from continuing his way. ayoung and amorous prince is always valiant.He came into a spacious outward court, where everything he saw mighthave frozen the most fearless person with horror. There reigned all over amost frightful silence. the image of death everywhere showed itself, andthere was nothing to be seen but stretched out bodies of men and animals,all seeming to be dead. He, however, very well knew, by the ruby faces andpimpled noses of the beefeaters, that they were only asleep. and theirgoblets, wherein still remained some drops of wine, showed plainly thatthey fell asleep in their cups.He then crossed a court paved with marble, went up the stairs and cameinto the guard chamber, where guards were standing in their ranks, withtheir muskets upon their shoulders, and snoring as loud as they could.After that he went through several rooms full of gentlemen and ladies, allasleep, some standing, others sitting. At last he came into a chamber allgilded with gold, where he saw upon a bed, the curtains of which were allopen, the finest sight was ever beheld   a princess, who appeared to beabout fifteen or sixteen years of age, and whose bright and, in a manner,resplendent beauty, had somewhat in it divine. He approached withtrembling and admiration, and fell down before her upon his knees.And now, as the enchantment was at an end, the princess awaked, andlooking on him with eyes more tender than the first view might seem toadmit of. "Is it you, my prince?" said she to him. "You have waited a longwhile."The prince, charmed with these words, and much more with the manner inwhich they were spoken, knew not how to show his joy and gratitude. heassured her that he loved her better than he did himself. their discoursewas not well connected, they did weep more than talk   little eloquence,a great deal of love. He was more at a loss than she, and we need notwonder at it. she had time to think on what to say to him. for it is veryprobable (though history mentions nothing of it) that the good fairy,during so long a sleep, had given her very agreeable dreams. In short,they talked four hours together, and yet they said not half what they hadto say.In the meanwhile all the palace awaked. everyone thought upon theirparticular business, and as all of them were not in love they were readyto die for hunger. The chief lady of honor, being as sharp set as otherfolks, grew very impatient, and told the princess aloud that supper wasserved up. The prince helped the princess to rise. she was entirelydressed, and very magnificently, but his royal highness took care not totell her that she was dressed like his great grandmother, and had a pointband peeping over a high collar. she looked not a bit less charming andbeautiful for all that.They went into the great hall of looking glasses, where they supped,and were served by the princess's officers, the violins and hautboysplayed old tunes, but very excellent, though it was now above a hundredyears since they had played. and after supper, without losing any time,the lord almoner married them in the chapel of the castle, and the chieflady of honor drew the curtains. They had but very little sleep   theprincess had no occasion. and the prince left her next morning to returnto the city, where his father must needs have been in pain for him. Theprince told him that he lost his way in the forest as he was hunting, andthat he had lain in the cottage of a charcoal burner, who gave him cheeseand brown bread.The king, his father, who was a good man, believed him. but his mothercould not be persuaded it was true. and seeing that he went almost everyday a hunting, and that he always had some excuse ready for so doing,though he had lain out three or four nights together, she began to suspectthat he was married, for he lived with the princess above two whole years,and had by her two children, the eldest of which, who was a daughter, wasnamed Morning , and the youngest, who was a son, they calledDay , because he was a great deal handsomer and more beautiful thanhis sister.The queen spoke several times to her son, to inform herself after whatmanner he did pass his time, and that in this he ought in duty to satisfyher. But he never dared to trust her with his secret. he feared her,though he loved her, for she was of the race of the ogres, and the kingwould never have married her had it not been for her vast riches. it waseven whispered about the court that she had ogreish inclinations, andthat, whenever she saw little children passing by, she had all thedifficulty in the world to avoid falling upon them. And so the princewould never tell her one word.But when the king was dead, which happened about two years afterward,and he saw himself lord and master, he openly declared his marriage. andhe went in great ceremony to conduct his queen to the palace. They made amagnificent entry into the capital city, she riding between her twochildren.Soon after, the king went to make war with the Emperor Contalabutte,his neighbor. He left the government of the kingdom to the queen hismother, and earnestly recommended to her care his wife and children. Hewas obliged to continue his expedition all the summer, and as soon as hedeparted the queen mother sent her daughter in law to a country houseamong the woods, that she might with the more ease gratify her horriblelonging.Some few days afterward she went thither herself, and said to her clerkof the kitchen:"I have a mind to eat little Morning for my dinner tomorrow.""Ah! madam," cried the clerk of the kitchen."I will have it so," replied the queen (and this she spoke in the toneof an ogress who had a strong desire to eat fresh meat), "and will eat herwith a sauce Robert ."The poor man, knowing very well that he must not play tricks withogresses, took his great knife and went up into little Morning's chamber.She was then four years old, and came up to him jumping and laughing, totake him about the neck, and ask him for some sugar candy. Upon which hebegan to weep, the great knife fell out of his hand, and he went into theback yard, and killed a little lamb, and dressed it with such good saucethat his mistress assured him that she had never eaten anything so good inher life. He had at the same time taken up little Morning, and carried herto his wife, to conceal her in the lodging he had at the bottom of thecourtyard.About eight days afterward the wicked queen said to the clerk of thekitchen, "I will sup on little Day."He answered not a word, being resolved to cheat her as he had donebefore. He went to find out little Day, and saw him with a little foil inhis hand, with which he was fencing with a great monkey, the child beingthen only three years of age. He took him up in his arms and carried himto his wife, that she might conceal him in her chamber along with hissister, and in the room of little Day cooked up a young kid, very tender,which the ogress found to be wonderfully good.This was hitherto all mighty well. but one evening this wicked queensaid to her clerk of the kitchen, "I will eat the queen with the samesauce I had with her children."It was now that the poor clerk of the kitchen despaired of being ableto deceive her. The young queen was turned of twenty, not reckoning thehundred years she had been asleep. and how to find in the yard a beast sofirm was what puzzled him. He took then a resolution, that he might savehis own life, to cut the queen's throat. and going up into her chamber,with intent to do it at once, he put himself into as great fury as hecould possibly, and came into the young queen's room with his dagger inhis hand. He would not, however, surprise her, but told her, with a greatdeal of respect, the orders he had received from the queen mother."Do it. do it" (said she, stretching out her neck). "Execute yourorders, and then I shall go and see my children, my poor children, whom Iso much and so tenderly loved," for she thought them dead ever since theyhad been taken away without her knowledge."No, no, madam" (cried the poor clerk of the kitchen, all in tears)."you shall not die, and yet you shall see your children again. but thenyou must go home with me to my lodgings, where I have concealed them, andI shall deceive the queen once more, by giving her in your stead a younghind."Upon this he forthwith conducted her to his chamber, where, leaving herto embrace her children, and cry along with them, he went and dressed ayoung hind, which the queen had for her supper, and devoured it with thesame appetite as if it had been the young queen. Exceedingly was shedelighted with her cruelty, and she had invented a story to tell the king,at his return, how the mad wolves had eaten up the queen his wife and hertwo children.One evening, as she was, according to her custom, rambling round aboutthe courts and yards of the palace to see if she could smell any freshmeat, she heard, in a ground room, little Day crying, for his mamma wasgoing to whip him, because he had been naughty. and she heard, at the sametime, little Morning begging pardon for her brother.The ogress presently knew the voice of the queen and her children, andbeing quite mad that she had been thus deceived, she commanded nextmorning, by break of day (with a most horrible voice, which made everybodytremble), that they should bring into the middle of the great court alarge tub, which she caused to be filled with toads, vipers, snakes, andall sorts of serpents, in order to have thrown into it the queen and herchildren, the clerk of the kitchen, his wife and maid. all whom she hadgiven orders should be brought thither with their hands tied behind them.They were brought out accordingly, and the executioners were just goingto throw them into the tub, when the king (who was not so soon expected)entered the court on horseback (for he came post) and asked, with theutmost astonishment, what was the meaning of that horrible spectacle.No one dared to tell him, when the ogress, all enraged to see what hadhappened, threw herself head foremost into the tub, and was instantlydevoured by the ugly creatures she had ordered to be thrown into it forothers. The king could not but be very sorry, for she was his mother. buthe soon comforted himself with his beautiful wife and his pretty children.MoralMany a girl has waited longFor a husband brave or strong.But I'm sure I never metAny sort of woman yetWho could wait a hundred years,Free from fretting, free from fears.Now, our story seems to showThat a century or so,Late or early, matters not.True love comes by fairy lot.Some old folk will even sayIt grows better by delay.Yet this good advice, I fear,Helps us neither there nor here.Though philosophers may prateHow much wiser 'tis to wait,Maids will be a sighing still  Young blood must when young blood will!