Popular Tales of the West HighlandsYears ago there lived in Crossbrig a smith of the name of MacEachern.This man had an only child, a boy of about thirteen or fourteen years ofage, cheerful, strong, and healthy. All of a sudden he fell ill, took tohis bed, and moped whole days away. No one could tell what was thematter with him, and the boy himself could not, or would not, tell how hefelt. He was wasting away fast. getting thin, old, and yellow. and hisfather and all his friends were afraid that he would die.At last one day, after the boy had been lying in this condition for along time, getting neither better nor worse, always confined to bed, butwith an extraordinary appetite, one day, while sadly revolving thesethings, and standing idly at his forge, with no heart to work, the smithwas agreeably surprised to see an old man, well known to him for hissagacity and knowledge of out of the way things, walk into his workshop.Forthwith he told him the occurrence which had clouded his life.The old man looked grave as he listened. and after sitting a long timepondering over all he had heard, gave his opinion thus  "It is not yourson you have got. The boy has been carried away by the 'Daoine Sith,'and they have left a Sibhreach in his place.""Alas! and what then am I to do?" said the smith. "How am I ever to seemy own son again?""I will tell you how," answered the old man. "But, first, to make surethat it is not your own son you have got, take as many empty eggshells asyou can get, go with them into the room, spread them out carefully beforehis sight, then proceed to draw water with them, carrying them two andtwo in your hands as if they were a great weight, and arrange when full,with every sort of earnestness, round the fire." The smith accordinglygathered as many broken eggshells as he could get, went into the room,and proceeded to carry out all his instructions.He had not been long at work before there arose from the bed a shout oflaughter, and the voice of the seeming sick boy exclaimed, " I am now 800years of age, and I have never seen the like of that before."The smith returned and told the old man. "Well, now," said the sage tohim, "did I not tell you that it was not your son you had: your son isin Brorra cheill in a digh there (that is, a round green hill frequentedby fairies). Get rid as soon as possible of this intruder, and I think Imay promise you your son."You must light a very large and bright fire before the bed on which thisstranger is lying. He will ask you, 'What is the use of such a fire asthat?' Answer him at once, 'You will see that presently!' and then seizehim, and throw him into the middle of it. If it is your own son you havegot, he will call out to save him. but if not, this thing will flythrough the roof."The smith again followed the old man's advice. kindled a large fire,answered the question put to him as he had been directed to do, andseizing the child flung him in without hesitation. The "Sibhreach" gavean awful yell, and sprung through the roof, where a hold was left to letthe smoke out.On a certain night the old man told him the green round hill, where thefairies kept the boy, would be open. And on that night the smith, havingprovided himself with a Bible, a dirk, and a crowing cock, was to proceedto the hill. He would hear singing and dancing and much merriment goingon, but he was to advance boldly. the Bible he carried would be a certainsafeguard to him against any danger from the fairies. On entering thehill he was to stick the dirk in the threshold, to prevent the hill fromclosing upon him. "and then," continued the old man, "on entering youwill see a spacious apartment before you, beautifully clean, and there,standing far within, working at a forge, you will also see you own son.When you are questioned, say you come to seek him, and will not gowithout him."Not long after this the time came round, and the smith sallied forth,prepared as instructed. Sure enough, as he approached the hill, therewas a light where light was seldom seen before. Soon after a sound ofpiping, dancing, and joyous merriment reached the anxious father on thenight wind.Overcoming every impulse to fear, the smith approached the thresholdsteadily, stuck the dirk into it as directed, and entered. Protected bythe Bible her carried on his breast, the fairies could not touch him. butthey asked him, with a good deal of displeasure, what he wanted there.He answered, "I want my son, whom I see down there, and I will not gowithout him."Upon hearing this the whole company before him gave a loud laugh, whichwakened up the cock he carried dozing in his arms, who at once leaped upon his shoulder, clapped his wings lustily, and crowed loud and long.The fairies, incensed, seized the smith and his son, and, throwing themout of the hill, flung the dirk after them, and in an instant all was dark.For a year and a day the boy never did a turn of work, and hardly everspoke a word. but at last one day, sitting by his father and watching himfinishing a sword he was making for some chief, and which he was veryparticular about, he suddenly exclaimed, "That is not the way to do it."and, taking the tools from his father's hands, he set to work himself inhis place, and soon fashioned a sword the like of which was never seen inthe country before.From that day the young man wrought constantly with his father, andbecame the inventor of a peculiarly fine and well tempered weapon, themaking of which kept the two smiths, father and son, in constantemployment, spread their fame far and wide, and gave them the means inabundance, as they before had the disposition, to live content with allthe world and very happily with one another.