Perhaps some of you may have read a book called 'Kenneth. or theRear Guard of the Grand Army' of Napoleon. If so, you will remember howthe two Scotch children found in Russia were taken care of by theFrench soldiers and prevented as far as possible from suffering from thehorrors of the terrible Retreat. One of the soldiers, a Breton, oftentried to make them forget how cold and hungry they were by tellingthem tales of his native country, Brittany, which is full of wonderfulthings. The best and warmest place round the camp fire was alwaysgiven to the children, but even so the bitter frost would cause them toshiver. It was then that the Breton would begin: 'Plouhinec is a smalltown near Hennebonne by the sea,' and would continue until Kenneth orEffie would interrupt him with an eager question. Then he forgot how hismother had told him the tale, and was obliged to begin all over again,so the story lasted a long while, and by the time it was ended thechildren were ready to be rolled up in what ever coverings could befound, and go to sleep. It is this story that I am going to tell to you.Plouhinec is a small town near Hennebonne by the sea. Around itstretches a desolate moor, where no corn can be grown, and the grass isso coarse that no beast grows fat on it. Here and there are scatteredgroves of fir trees, and small pebbles are so thick on the ground thatyou might almost take it for a beach. On the further side, the fairies,or korigans, as the people called them, had set up long long ago tworows of huge stones. indeed, so tall and heavy were they, that it seemedas if all the fairies in the world could not have placed them upright.Not far off them this great stone avenue, and on the banks of the littleriver Intel, there lived a man named Marzinne and his sister Rozennik.They always had enough black bread to eat, and wooden shoes or sabotsto wear, and a pig to fatten, so the neighbours thought them quite rich.and what was still better, they thought themselves rich also.Rozennik was a pretty girl, who knew how to make the best of everything,and she could, if she wished, have chosen a husband from the young menof Plouhinec, but she cared for none of them except Bernez, whom she hadplayed with all her life, and Bernez, though he worked hard, was so veryvery poor that Marzinne told him roughly he must look elsewhere for awife. But whatever Marzinne might say Rozennik smiled and nodded tohim as before, and would often turn her head as she passed, and singsnatches of old songs over her shoulder.Christmas Eve had come, and all the men who worked under Marzinne or onthe farms round about were gathered in the large kitchen to eat thesoup flavoured with honey followed by rich puddings, to which they werealways invited on this particular night. In the middle of the table wasa large wooden bowl, with wooden spoons placed in a circle round it, sothat each might dip in his turn. The benches were filled, and Marzinnewas about to give the signal, when the door was suddenly thrown open,and an old man came in, wishing the guests a good appetite for theirsupper. There was a pause, and some of the faces looked a littlefrightened. for the new comer was well known to them as a beggar, whowas also said to be a wizard who cast spells over the cattle, and causedthe corn to grow black, and old people to die, of what, nobody knew.Still, it was Christmas Eve, and besides it was as well not to offendhim, so the farmer invited him in, and gave him a seat at the table anda wooden spoon like the rest.There was not much talk after the beggar's entrance, and everyone wasglad when the meal came to an end, and the beggar asked if he mightsleep in the stable, as he should die of cold if he were left outside.Rather unwillingly Marzinne gave him leave, and bade Bernez take thekey and unlock the door. There was certainly plenty of room for a dozenbeggars, for the only occupants of the stable were an old donkey and athin ox. and as the night was bitter, the wizard lay down between themfor warmth, with a sack of reeds for a pillow.He had walked far that day, and even wizards get tired sometimes, so inspite of the hard floor he was just dropping off to sleep, when midnightstruck from the church tower of Plouhinec. At this sound the donkeyraised her head and shook her ears, and turned towards the ox.'Well, my dear cousin,' said she, 'and how have you fared since lastChristmas Eve, when we had a conversation together?'Instead of answering at once, the ox eyed the beggar with a long look ofdisgust.'What is the use of talking,' he replied roughly, 'when agood for nothing creature like that can hear all we say?''Oh, you mustn't lose time in grumbling,' rejoined the donkey gaily,'and don't you see that the wizard is asleep?''His wicked pranks do not make him rich, certainly,' said the ox, 'andhe isn't even clever enough to have found out what a piece of luck mightbefall him a week hence.''What piece of luck?' asked the donkey.'Why, don't you know,' inquired the ox, 'that once very hundred yearsthe stones on Plouhinec heath go down to drink at the river, and thatwhile they are away the treasures underneath them are uncovered?''Ah, I remember now,' replied the donkey, 'but the stones return soquickly to their places, that you certainly would be crushed to deathunless you have in your hands a bunch of crowsfoot and of five leavedtrefoil.''Yes, but that is not enough,' said the ox. 'even supposing you getsafely by, the treasure you have brought with you will crumble into dustif you do not give in exchange a baptised soul. It is needful that aChristian should die before you can enjoy the wealth of Plouhinec.'The donkey was about to ask some further questions, when she suddenlyfound herself unable to speak: the time allowed them for conversationwas over.'Ah, my dear creatures,' thought the beggar, who had of course heardeverything, 'you are going to make me richer than the richest men ofVannes or Lorient. But I have no time to lose. to morrow I must begin tohunt for the precious plants.'He did not dare to seek too near Plouhinec, lest somebody who knew thestory might guess what he was doing, so he went away further towards thesouth, where the air was softer and the plants are always green. Fromthe instant it was light, till the last rays had faded out of the sky,he searched every inch of ground where the magic plants might grow. hescarcely gave himself a minute to eat and drink, but at length he foundthe crowsfoot in a little hollow! Well, that was certainly a great deal,but after all, the crowsfoot was of no use without the trefoil, andthere was so little time left.He had almost give up hope, when on the very last day before it wasnecessary that he should start of Plouhinec, he came upon a littleclump of trefoil, half hidden under a rock. Hardly able to breathe fromexcitement, he sat down and hunted eagerly through the plant whichhe had torn up. Leaf after leaf he threw aside in disgust, and he hadnearly reached the end when he gave a cry of joy the five leavedtrefoil was in his hand.The beggar scrambled to his feet, and without a pause walked quicklydown the road that led northwards. The moon was bright, and for somehours he kept steadily on, not knowing how many miles he had gone, noreven feeling tired. By and bye the sun rose, and the world began tostir, and stopping at a farmhouse door, he asked for a cup of milk andslice of bread and permission to rest for a while in the porch. Then hecontinued his journey, and so, towards sunset on New Year's Eve, he cameback to Plouhinec.As he was passing the long line of stones, he saw Bernez working with achisel on the tallest of them all.'What are you doing there?' called the wizard, 'do you mean to hollowout for yourself a bed in that huge column?''No,' replied Bernez quietly, 'but as I happened to have no work to doto day, I thought I would just carve a cross on this stone. The holysign can never come amiss.''I believe you think it will help you to win Rozennik,' laughed the oldman.Bernez ceased his task for a moment to look at him.'Ah, so you know about that,' replied he. 'unluckily Marzinne wants abrother in law who has more pounds than I have pence.''And suppose I were to give you more pounds than Marzinne ever dreamedof?' whispered the sorcerer glancing round to make sure that no oneoverheard him.'You?''Yes, I.''And what am I to do to gain the money,' inquired Bernez, who knew quitewell that the Breton peasant gives nothing for nothing.'What I want of you only needs a little courage,' answered the old man.'If that is all, tell me what I have got to do, and I will do it,' criedBernez, letting fall his chisel. 'If I have to risk thirty deaths, I amready.'When the beggar knew that Bernez would give him no trouble, he told himhow, during that very night, the treasures under the stones would beuncovered, and how in a very few minutes they could take enough to makethem both rich for life. But he kept silence as to the fate that awaitedthe man who was without the crowsfoot and the trefoil, and Bernezthought that nothing but boldness and quickness were necessary. So hesaid:'Old man, I am grateful, indeed, for the chance you have given me, andthere will always be a pint of my blood at your service. Just let mefinish carving this cross. It is nearly done, and I will join you in thefir wood at whatever hour you please.''You must be there without fail an hour before midnight,' answered thewizard, and went on his way.As the hour struck from the great church at Plouhinec, Bernez enteredthe wood. He found the beggar already there with a bag in each hand, anda third slung round his neck.'You are punctual,' said the old man, 'but we need not start just yet.You had better sit down and think what you will do when your pockets arefilled with gold and silver and jewels.''Oh, it won't take me long to plan out that,' returned Bernez with alaugh. 'I shall give Rozennik everything she can desire, dresses of allsorts, from cotton to silk, and good things of all kinds to eat, fromwhite bread to oranges.''The silver you find will pay for all that, and what about the gold?''With the gold I shall make rich Rozennik's relations and every friendof hers in the parish,' replied he.'So much for the gold. and the jewels?''Then,' cried Bernez, 'I will divide the jewels amongst everybody in theworld, so that they may be wealthy and happy. and I will tell them thatit is Rozennik who would have it so.''Hush! it is close on midnight we must go,' whispered the wizard, andtogether they crept to the edge of the wood.With the first stroke of twelve a great noise arose over the silentheath, and the earth seemed to rock under the feet of the two watchers.The next moment by the light of the moon they beheld the huge stonesnear them leave their places and go down the slope leading to the river,knocking against each other in their haste. Passing the spot where stoodBernez and the beggar, they were lost in the darkness. It seemed as if aprocession of giants had gone by.'Quick,' said the wizard, in a low voice, and he rushed towards theempty holes, which even in the night shone brightly from the treasureswithin them. Flinging himself on his knees, the old man began fillingthe wallets he had brought, listening intently all the time for thereturn of the stones up the hill, while Bernez more slowly put handfulsof all he could see into his pockets.The sorcerer had just closed his third wallet, and was beginning towonder if he could carry away any more treasures when a low murmur as ofa distant storm broke upon his ears.The stones had finished drinking, and were hastening back to theirplaces.On they came, bent a little forward, the tallest of them all at theirhead, breaking everything that stood in their way. At the sight Bernezstood transfixed with horror, and said,'We are lost! They will crush us to death.''Not me!' answered the sorcerer, holding up the crowsfoot and thefive leaved trefoil, 'for these will preserve me. But in order to keepmy riches, I was obliged to sacrifice a Christian to the stones, andan evil fate threw you in my way.' And as he spoke he stretched outthe magic herbs to the stones, which were advancing rapidly. Asif acknowledging a power greater than theirs, the monstrous thingsinstantly parted to the right and left of the wizard, but closed theirranks again as they approached Bernez.The young man did not try to escape, he knew it was useless, and sankon his knees and closed his eyes. But suddenly the tall stone that wasleading stopped straight in front of Bernez, so that no other could getpast.It was the stone on which Bernez had carved the cross, and it was now abaptized stone, and had power to save him.So the stone remained before the young man till the rest had taken theirplaces, and then, darting like a bird to its own hole, came upon thebeggar, who, thinking himself quite safe, was staggering along under theweight of his treasures.Seeing the stone approaching, he held out the magic herbs which hecarried, but the baptized stone was no longer subject to the spellsthat bound the rest, and passed straight on its way, leaving the wizardcrushed into powder in the heather.Then Bernez went home, and showed his wealth to Marzinne, who thistime did not refuse him as a brother in law, and he and Rozennik weremarried, and lived happy for ever after.From 'Le Royer Breton,' par Emile Souvestre.