'Phew!' cried Lisa.'Ugh!' cried Aina.'What now?' cried the big sister.'A worm!' cried Lisa.'On the raspberry!' cried Aina.'Kill it!' cried Otto.'What a fuss over a poor little worm!' said the big sister scornfully.'Yes, when we had cleaned the raspberries so carefully,' said Lisa.'It crept out from that very large one,' put in Aina.'And supposing someone had eaten the raspberry,' said Lisa.'Then they would have eaten the worm, too,' said Aina.'Well, what harm?' said Otto.'Eat a worm!' cried Lisa.'And kill him with one bite!' murmured Aina.'Just think of it!' said Otto laughing.'Now it is crawling on the table,' cried Aina again.'Blow it away!' said the big sister.'Tramp on it!' laughed Otto.But Lisa took a raspberry leaf, swept the worm carefully on to theleaf and carried it out into the yard. Then Aina noticed that a sparrowsitting on the fence was just ready to pounce on the poor little worm,so she took up the leaf, carried it out into the wood and hid it under araspberry bush where the greedy sparrow could not find it. Yes, andwhat more is there to tell about a raspberry worm? Who would give threestraws for such a miserable little thing? Yes, but who would not liketo live in such a pretty home as it lives in. in such a fresh fragrantdark red cottage, far away in the quiet wood among flowers and greenleaves!Now it was just dinner time, so they all had a dinner of raspberriesand cream. 'Be careful with the sugar, Otto,' said the big sister. butOtto's plate was like a snowdrift in winter, with just a little redunder the snow.Soon after dinner the big sister said: 'Now we have eaten up theraspberries and we have none left to make preserve for the winter. itwould be fine if we could get two baskets full of berries, then we couldclean them this evening, and to morrow we could cook them in the bigpreserving pan, and then we should have raspberry jam to eat on ourbread!''Come, let us go to the wood and pick,' said Lisa.'Yes, let us,' said Aina. 'You take the yellow basket and I will takethe green one.''Don't get lost, and come back safely in the evening,' said the bigsister.'Greetings to the raspberry worm,' said Otto, mockingly. 'Next time Imeet him I shall do him the honour of eating him up.'So Aina and Lisa went off to the wood. Ah! how delightful it was there,how beautiful! It was certainly tiresome sometimes climbing over thefallen trees, and getting caught in the branches, and waging war withthe juniper bushes and the midges, but what did that matter? The girlsclimbed well in their short dresses, and soon they were deep in thewood.There were plenty of bilberries and elder berries, but no raspberries.They wandered on and on, and at last they came... No, it could not betrue!... they came to a large raspberry wood. The wood had been on fireonce, and now raspberry bushes had grown up, and there were raspberrybushes and raspberry bushes as far as the eye could see. Every bush wasweighted to the ground with the largest, dark red, ripe raspberries,such a wealth of berries as two little berry pickers had never foundbefore!Lisa picked, Aina picked. Lisa ate, Aina ate, and in a little whiletheir baskets were full.'Now we shall go home,' said Aina. 'No, let us gather a few more,' saidLisa. So they put the baskets down on the ground and began to fill theirpinafores, and it was not long before their pinafores were full, too.'Now we shall go home,' said Lina. 'Yes, now we shall go home,' saidAina. Both girls took a basket in one hand and held up her apron in theother and then turned to go home. But that was easier said than done.They had never been so far in the great wood before, they could not findany road nor path, and soon the girls noticed that they had lost theirway.The worst of it was that the shadows of the tress were becoming so longin the evening sunlight, the birds were beginning to fly home, and theday was closing in. At last the sun went down behind the pine tops, andit was cool and dusky in the great wood.The girls became anxious but went steadily on, expecting that the woodwould soon end, and that they would see the smoke from the chimneys oftheir home.After they had wandered on for a long time it began to grow dark. Atlast they reached a great plain overgrown with bushes, and when theylooked around them, they saw, as much as they could in the darkness,that they were among the same beautiful raspberry bushes from which theyhad picked their baskets and their aprons full. Then they were so tiredthat they sat down on a stone and began to cry.'I am so hungry,' said Lisa.'Yes,' said Aina, 'if we had only two good meat sandwiches now.'As she said that, she felt something in her hand, and when she lookeddown, she saw a large sandwich of bread and chicken, and at the sametime Lisa said: 'How very queer! I have a sandwich in my hand.''And I, too,' said Aina. 'Will you dare to eat it?''Of course I will,' said Lisa. 'Ah, if we only had a good glass of milknow!'Just as she said that she felt a large glass of milk between herfingers, and at the same time Aina cried out, 'Lisa! Lisa! I have aglass of milk in my hand! Isn't it queer?'The girls, however, were very hungry, so they ate and drank with a goodappetite. When they had finished Aina yawned, stretched out her arms andsaid: 'Oh, if only we had a nice soft bed to sleep on now!'Scarcely had she spoken before she felt a nice soft bed by her side, andthere beside Lisa was one too. This seemed to the girls more and morewonderful, but tired and sleepy as they were, they thought no more aboutit, but crept into the little beds, drew the coverlets over their headsand were soon asleep.When they awoke the sun was high in the heavens, the wood was beautifulin the summer morning, and the birds were flying about in the branchesand the tree tops.At first the girls were filled with wonder when they saw that they hadslept in the wood among the raspberry bushes. They looked at each other,they looked at their beds, which were of the finest flax covered overwith leaves and moss. At last Lisa said: 'Are you awake, Aina?''Yes,' said Aina.'But I am still dreaming,' said Lisa.'No,' said Aina, 'but there is certainly some good fairy living amongthese raspberry bushes. Ah, if we had only a hot cup of coffee now, anda nice piece of white bread to dip into it!'Scarcely had she finished speaking when she saw beside her a littlesilver tray with a gilt coffee pot, two cups of rare porcelain, a sugarbasin of fine crystal, silver sugar tongs, and some good fresh whitebread. The girls poured out the beautiful coffee, put in the cream andsugar, and tasted it. never in their lives had they drunk such beautifulcoffee.'Now I should like to know very much who has given us all this,' saidLisa gratefully.'I have, my little girls,' said a voice just then from the bushes.The children looked round wonderingly, and saw a little kind looking oldman, in a white coat and a red cap, limping out from among the bushes,for he was lame in his left foot. neither Lisa nor Aina could utter aword, they were so filled with surprise.'Don't be afraid, little girls,' he said smiling kindly at them. hecould not laugh properly because his mouth was crooked. 'Welcome to mykingdom! Have you slept well and eaten well and drunk well?' he asked.'Yes, indeed we have,' said both the girls, 'but tell us...' and theywanted to ask who the old man was, but were afraid to.'I will tell you who I am,' said the old man. 'I am the raspberry king,who reigns over all this kingdom of raspberry bushes, and I have livedhere for more than a thousand years. But the great spirit who rules overthe woods, and the sea, and the sky, did not want me to become proud ofmy royal power and my long life. Therefore he decreed that one day inevery hundred years I should change into a little raspberry worm, andlive in that weak and helpless form from sunrise to sunset. During thattime my life is dependent on the little worm's life, so that a bird caneat me, a child can pick me with the berries and trample under foot mythousand years of life. Now yesterday was just my transformation day,and I was taken with the raspberry and would have been trampled to deathif you had not saved my life. Until sunset I lay helpless in the grass,and when I was swept away from your table I twisted one of my feet, andmy mouth became crooked with terror. but when evening came and I couldtake my own form again, I looked for you to thank you and reward you.Then I found you both here in my kingdom, and tried to meet you both aswell as I could without frightening you. Now I will send a bird from mywood to show you the way home. Good bye, little children, thank youfor your kind hearts. the raspberry king can show that he is notungrateful.' The children shook hands with the old man and thanked him,feeling very glad that they had saved the little raspberry worm. Theywere just going when the old man turned round, smiled mischievously withhis crooked mouth, and said: 'Greetings to Otto from me, and tell himwhen I meet him again I shall do him the honour of eating him up.''Oh, please don't do that,' cried both the girls, very frightened.'Well, for your sake I will forgive him,' said the old man, 'I am notrevengeful. Greetings to Otto and tell him that he may expect a giftfrom me, too. Good bye.'The two girls, light of heart, now took their berries and ran offthrough the wood after the bird. and soon it began to get lighter in thewood and they wondered how they could have lost their way yesterday, itseemed so easy and plain now.One can imagine what joy there was when the two reached home. Everyonehad been looking for them, and the big sister had not been able tosleep, for she thought the wolves had eaten them up.Otto met them. he had a basket in his hand and said: 'Look, here issomething that an old man has just left for you.'When the girls looked into the basket they saw a pair of most beautifulbracelets of precious stones, dark red, and made in the shape of a riperaspberry and with an inscription: 'To Lisa and Aina'. beside them therewas a diamond breast pin in the shape of a raspberry worm: on it wasinscribed 'Otto, never destroy the helpless!'Otto felt rather ashamed: he quite understood what it meant, but hethought that the old man's revenge was a noble one.The raspberry king had also remembered the big sister, for when she wentin to set the table for dinner, she found eleven big baskets of mostbeautiful raspberries, and no one knew how they had come there, buteveryone guessed.And so there was such a jam making as had never been seen before, and ifyou like to go and help in it, you might perhaps get a little, for theymust surely be making jam still to this very day.From Z. Topelius.