Quite an excitement, it is reported, was recently caused in the village of Harts Corners, a few miles from New York, by the appearance of the veritable "Wandering Jew!"Now an ordinary wandering Jew would not be at all likely to create any surprise, seeing that they are to be met with in every quarter. but the case would be quite contrary   even in a community of beer and tobacco loving Dutchmen, the very embodiment of all that is imperturbable, if the genuine Ahaseurus   condemned by the Great Teacher to walk the earth until the day of judgment   were to make his appearance in their midst. So nobody can wonder at the excitement displayed by the people of Harts Corners on the appearance of this very notorious and venerable character in their midst!The discovery was made under the following circumstances: On the 2nd instant, as two little boys were going a fishing, their attention was arrested by deep groans, which seemed to emanate from an old shanty they passed on their way. The boys entered the shanty and there beheld a venerable looking individual with a long white beard, dressed in black flowing garments, seated in one corner, apparently in pain. They manifested a desire to assist him, but were frightened off by the old fellow lifting his staff in a threatening manner.The youngsters retreated and soon returned with a number of the villagers, who, on entering the shanty saw an individual with a large hooked nose, larger ears, and finger nails about an inch long   there was no tail, visible at least. They asked what ailed him, and he replied that he had fallen on a stone and severely hurt his leg. In the course of conversation he also informed them he had no home, and that his last friend had departed this life long before the light of heaven illumined the soul of any amongst them, and that the voice of the only one he loved was silent in the tomb before printing was invented, or America had ever echoed to the cry of liberty.Exclamations of "cracked" escaped several of the crowd, which aroused the indignation of the Jew, who asked them why they came there if they did not believe him. They replied they came because they had heard there was a man in trouble and they wished to assist him.To this he replied "man can not and Heaven will not." He then gave a short account of his recent travels from Siberia to America via Behrings Straits, through the wilds of Alaska, etc., saying the first kind word he had heard during the whole journey was from the party whom he was then addressing. He then bade them adieu and departed.In his hasty departure on this occasion as he is said to have done on many others, he left a memento by which his identity was fully proven. This time it was an old volume of extracts from the Babylonion Talmud, in the Hebrew character. On a fly leaf was a short account of his birth, parentage, the sentence of the Savior and his subsequent wanderings, all clearly proving that he was the identical bona fide Wandering Jew. This remarkable book, proving the identity of poor Ahaseurus, is now in the possession of one Michael O'Grady, a switch tender and farmer living a short distance from the place where the Jew was discovered. By applying to him, any one sufficiently interested may doubtless obtain further details in relation to this   the very "last sensation." of course they may!