We are in a rich, happy house, where the master, the servants, thefriends of the family are full of joy and felicity. For on this daya son and heir has been born, and mother and child are doing well. Thelamp in the bed chamber had been partly shaded, and the windows werecovered with heavy curtains of some costly silken material. The carpetwas thick and soft, like a covering of moss. Everything invited toslumber, everything had a charming look of repose. and so the nursehad discovered, for she slept. and well she might sleep, whileeverything around her told of happiness and blessing. The guardianangel of the house leaned against the head of the bed. while overthe child was spread, as it were, a net of shining stars, and eachstar was a pearl of happiness. All the good stars of life hadbrought their gifts to the newly born. here sparkled health, wealth,fortune, and love. in short, there seemed to be everything for whichman could wish on earth."Everything has been bestowed here," said the guardian angel."No, not everything," said a voice near him the voice of the goodangel of the child. "one fairy has not yet brought her gift, but shewill, even if years should elapse, she will bring her gift. it isthe last pearl that is wanting.""Wanting!" cried the guardian angel. "nothing must be wantinghere. and if it is so, let us fetch it. let us seek the powerfulfairy. let us go to her.""She will come, she will come some day unsought!""Her pearl must not be missing. it must be there, that thecrown, when worn, may be complete. Where is she to be found? Wheredoes she dwell?" said the guardian angel. "Tell me, and I will procurethe pearl.""Will you do that?" replied the good angel of the child. "Then Iwill lead you to her directly, wherever she may be. She has no abidingplace. she rules in the palace of the emperor, sometimes she entersthe peasant's humble cot. she passes no one without leaving a trace ofher presence. She brings her gift with her, whether it is a world or abauble. To this child she must come. You think that to wait for thistime would be long and useless. Well, then, let us go for thispearl the only one lacking amidst all this wealth."Then hand in hand they floated away to the spot where the fairywas now lingering. It was in a large house with dark windows and emptyrooms, in which a peculiar stillness reigned. A whole row of windowsstood open, so that the rude wind could enter at its pleasure, and thelong white curtains waved to and fro in the current of air. In thecentre of one of the rooms stood an open coffin, in which lay the bodyof a woman, still in the bloom of youth and very beautiful. Freshroses were scattered over her. The delicate folded hands and the nobleface glorified in death by the solemn, earnest look, which spoke of anentrance into a better world, were alone visible. Around the coffinstood the husband and children, a whole troop, the youngest in thefather's arms. They were come to take a last farewell look of theirmother. The husband kissed her hand, which now lay like a witheredleaf, but which a short time before had been diligently employed indeeds of love for them all. Tears of sorrow rolled down theircheeks, and fell in heavy drops on the floor, but not a word wasspoken. The silence which reigned here expressed a world of grief.With silent steps, still sobbing, they left the room. A burninglight remained in the room, and a long, red wick rose far above theflame, which fluttered in the draught of air. Strange men came inand placed the lid of the coffin over the dead, and drove the nailsfirmly in. while the blows of the hammer resounded through thehouse, and echoed in the hearts that were bleeding."Whither art thou leading me?" asked the guardian angel. "Heredwells no fairy whose pearl could be counted amongst the best gifts oflife.""Yes, she is here. here in this sacred hour," replied the angel,pointing to a corner of the room. and there, where in herlife time, the mother had taken her seat amidst flowers andpictures: in that spot, where she, like the blessed fairy of thehouse, had welcomed husband, children, and friends, and, like asunbeam, had spread joy and cheerfulness around her, the centre andheart of them all, there, in that very spot, sat a strange woman,clothed in long, flowing garments, and occupying the place of the deadwife and mother. It was the fairy, and her name was "Sorrow." A hottear rolled into her lap, and formed itself into a pearl, glowing withall the colors of the rainbow. The angel seized it: the pearlglittered like a star with seven fold radiance. The pearl of Sorrow,the last, which must not be wanting, increases the lustre, andexplains the meaning of all the other pearls."Do you see the shimmer of the rainbow, which unites earth toheaven?" So has there been a bridge built between this world and thenext. Through the night of the grave we gaze upwards beyond thestars to the end of all things. Then we glance at the pearl of Sorrow,in which are concealed the wings which shall carry us away toeternal happiness.