Once upon a time there was a poor man, who had a wife and two children,aboy and a girl. He was so poor that he possessed nothing in the world buttheashes on his hearth.His wife died, and after a time he married another woman, who wascantankerous and bad natured, and from morning till evening, as long asthe daylasted, she gave the poor man no peace, but snarled and shouted athim.The woman said to him, "Do away with these children. You cannot evenkeepme. How then can you keep all these mouths?" for was she not astepmother?The poor man stood her nagging for a long time, but then, one night,shequarreled so much that he promised her that he would take the childreninto theforest and leave them there. The two children were sitting in the cornerbutheld their peace and heard all that was going on.The next day, the man, taking his ax upon his shoulder, called to thechildren and said to them, "Come with me into the forest. I am going tocutwood."The little children went with him, but before they left, the littlegirlfilled her pocket with ashes from the hearth, and as she walked along shedropped little bits of coal the way they went.After a time they reached a very dense part of the forest, where theycouldnot see their way any longer, and there the man said to the children,"Waithere for a while. I am only going to cut wood yonder. When I have done Iwillcome back and fetch you home." And leaving the children there in thethicket,he went away, heavy hearted, and returned home.The children waited for a while, and seeing that their father did notreturn, the girl knew what he had done. So they slept through the night intheforest, and the next morning, taking her brother by the hand, she followedthetrace of the ashes which she had left on the road, and thus came home totheirown house.When the stepmother saw them, she did not know what to do with herself.Shewent almost out of her mind with fury. If she could, she would haveswallowedthem in a spoonful of water, so furious was she.The husband, who was a weakling, tried to pacify her, and to endeavorto getthe children away by one means or another, but did not succeed.When the stepmother found that she could not do anything through herhusband, she made up her mind that she herself would get rid of them. Soonemorning, when her husband had gone away, she took the little boy, andwithoutsaying anything to anybody, she killed him and gave him to his sister tocuthim up, and prepare a meal for all of them. What was she to do? If she wasnotto be killed like her brother, she had to do what her stepmother toldher.And so she cut him up and cooked him ready for the meal But she tooktheheart, and hid it away in a hollow of a tree. When the stepmother askedherwhere the heart was, she said that a dog had come and taken it away.In the evening, when the husband came home, she brought the broth withthemeat for the husband to eat, and she sat down and ate of it, and so didthehusband, not knowing that he was eating the flesh of his child. The littlegirlrefused to eat it. She would not touch it. After they had finished, shegathered up all the little bones and hid them in the hollow of the treewhereshe had put the heart.The next morning, out of that hollow of the tree there came a littlebirdwith dark feathers, and sitting on the branch of a tree, began to sing,"Cuckoo! My sister has cooked me, and my father has eaten me, but I am nowacuckoo and safe from my stepmother."When the stepmother, who happened to be near the tree, heard what thatlittle bird was singing, in her fury and fright she took a heavy lump ofsaltwhich lay near at hand, and threw it at the cuckoo. But instead of hittingit,the lump fell down on her head and killed her on the spot.And the little boy has remained a cuckoo to this very day.