Once on a time, long ago, there lived at Treva, a hamlet in Zennor, awonderful old lady deeply skilled in necromancy. Her charms, spells, anddark incantations made her the terror of the neighborhood. However, thisold lady failed to impress her husband with any belief in her supernaturalpowers, nor did he fail to proclaim his unbelief aloud.One day this skeptic came home to dinner, and found, being exceedinglyhungry, to his bitter disappointment, that not only was there no dinner toeat, but that there was no meat in the house. His rage was great, but allhe could get from his wife was, "I couldn't get meat out of the stones,could I?" It was in vain to give the reins to passion, the old woman toldhim, and he must know "that hard words buttered no parsnips."Well, at length he resolved to put his wife's powers to the proof, and hequietly but determinedly told her that he would be the death of her if shedid not get him some dinner. but if in half an hour she gave him some goodcooked meat, he would believe all she had boasted of her power, and besubmissive to her forever.St. Ives, the nearest market town, was five miles off. but nothingdoubting, the witch put on her bonnet and cloak, and started. Her husbandwatched her from their cottage door, down the hill. and at the bottom ofthe hill, he saw his wife quietly place herself on the ground anddisappear. In her place a fine hare ran on at its full speed.He was not a little startled, but he waited, and within the half hour inwalked his wife with "good flesh and taties all ready for aiting." Therewas no longer any doubt, and the poor husband lived in fear of the witchof Treva to the day of her death.This event took place after a few years, and it is said the room was fullof evil spirits, and that the old woman's shrieks were awful to hear.Howbeit, peace in the shape of pale faced death came to her at last, andthen a black cloud rested over the house when all the heavens were clearand blue.She was borne to the grave by six aged men, carried, as is the custom,underhand. When they were about half way between the house and thechurch, a hare started from the roadside and leaped over the coffin. Theterrified bearers let the corpse fall to the ground, and ran away.Another lot of men took up the coffin and proceeded.They had not gone far when puss was suddenly seen seated on the coffin,and again the coffin was abandoned. After long consultation, and beingpersuaded by the parson to carry the old woman very quickly into thechurchyard, while he walked before, six others made the attempt, and asthe parson never ceased to repeat the Lord's Prayer, all went onquietly.Arrived at the church stile, they rested the corpse, the parson paused tocommence the ordinary burial service, and there stood the hare, which, assoon as the clergyman began "I am the resurrection and the life," uttereda diabolical howl, changed into a black, unshapen creature, anddisappeared.