On one of the upper branches of the Congo river lived an ancient andaristocratic family of hippopotamuses, which boasted a pedigreedating back beyond the days of Noah beyond the existence ofmankind far into the dim ages when the world was new.They had always lived upon the banks of this same river, so thatevery curve and sweep of its waters, every pit and shallow of itsbed, every rock and stump and wallow upon its bank was as familiarto them as their own mothers. And they are living there yet, Isuppose.Not long ago the queen of this tribe of hippopotamuses had a childwhich she named Keo, because it was so fat and round. Still, thatyou may not be misled, I will say that in the hippopotamus language"Keo," properly translated, means "fat and lazy" instead of fat andround. However, no one called the queen's attention to this error,because her tusks were monstrous long and sharp, and she thought Keothe sweetest baby in the world.He was, indeed, all right for a hippopotamus. He rolled and playedin the soft mud of the river bank, and waddled inland to nibble theleaves of the wild cabbage that grew there, and was happy andcontented from morning till night. And he was the jolliesthippopotamus that ancient family had ever known. His little red eyeswere forever twinkling with fun, and he laughed his merry laugh onall occasions, whether there was anything to laugh at or not.Therefore the black people who dwelt in that region called him"Ippi" the jolly one, although they dared not come anigh him onaccount of his fierce mother, and his equally fierce uncles andaunts and cousins, who lived in a vast colony upon the river bank.And while these black people, who lived in little villages scatteredamong the trees, dared not openly attack the royal family ofhippopotamuses, they were amazingly fond of eating hippopotamus meatwhenever they could get it. This was no secret to the hippopotamuses.And, again, when the blacks managed to catch these animals alive,they had a trick of riding them through the jungles as if they werehorses, thus reducing them to a condition of slavery.Therefore, having these things in mind, whenever the tribe ofhippopotamuses smelled the oily odor of black people they wereaccustomed to charge upon them furiously, and if by chance theyovertook one of the enemy they would rip him with their sharp tusksor stamp him into the earth with their huge feet.It was continual warfare between the hippopotamuses and the blackpeople.Gouie lived in one of the little villages of the blacks. He was theson of the chief's brother and grandson of the village sorcerer, thelatter being an aged man known as the "the boneless wonder," becausehe could twist himself into as many coils as a serpent and had nobones to hinder his bending his flesh into any position. This madehim walk in a wabbly fashion, but the black people had great respectfor him.Gouie's hut was made of branches of trees stuck together with mud,and his clothing consisted of a grass mat tied around his middle.But his relationship to the chief and the sorcerer gave him acertain dignity, and he was much addicted to solitary thought.Perhaps it was natural that these thoughts frequently turned uponhis enemies, the hippopotamuses, and that he should consider manyways of capturing them.Finally he completed his plans, and set about digging a great pit inthe ground, midway between two sharp curves of the river. When thepit was finished he covered it over with small branches of trees,and strewed earth upon them, smoothing the surface so artfully thatno one would suspect there was a big hole underneath. Then Gouielaughed softly to himself and went home to supper.That evening the queen said to Keo, who was growing to be a finechild for his age:"I wish you'd run across the bend and ask your Uncle Nikki to comehere. I have found a strange plant, and want him to tell me if it isgood to eat."The jolly one laughed heartily as he started upon his errand, for hefelt as important as a boy does when he is sent for the first timeto the corner grocery to buy a yeast cake."Guk uk uk uk! guk uk uk uk!" was the way he laughed. and if youthink a hippopotamus does not laugh this way you have but to listento one and you will find I am right.He crawled out of the mud where he was wallowing and tramped awaythrough the bushes, and the last his mother heard as she lay half inand half out of the water was his musical "guk uk uk uk!" dying awayin the distance.Keo was in such a happy mood that he scarcely noticed where hestepped, so he was much surprised when, in the middle of a laugh,the ground gave way beneath him, and he fell to the bottom ofGouie's deep pit. He was not badly hurt, but had bumped his noseseverely as he went down. so he stopped laughing and began to thinkhow he should get out again. Then he found the walls were higherthan his head, and that he was a prisoner.So he laughed a little at his own misfortune, and the laughtersoothed him to sleep, so that he snored all through the night untildaylight came.When Gouie peered over the edge of the pit next morning heexclaimed:"Why, 'tis Ippi the Jolly One!"Keo recognized the scent of a black man and tried to raise his headhigh enough to bite him. Seeing which Gouie spoke in thehippopotamus language, which he had learned from his grandfather,the sorcerer."Have peace, little one. you are my captive.""Yes. I will have a piece of your leg, if I can reach it," retortedKeo. and then he laughed at his own joke: "Guk uk uk uk!"But Gouie, being a thoughtful black man, went away without furthertalk, and did not return until the following morning. When he againleaned over the pit Keo was so weak from hunger that he could hardlylaugh at all."Do you give up?" asked Gouie, "or do you still wish to fight?""What will happen if I give up?" inquired Keo.The black man scratched his woolly head in perplexity."It is hard to say, Ippi. You are too young to work, and if I killyou for food I shall lose your tusks, which are not yet grown. Why,O Jolly One, did you fall into my hole? I wanted to catch yourmother or one of your uncles.""Guk uk uk uk!" laughed Keo. "You must let me go, after all, blackman. for I am of no use to you!""That I will not do," declared Gouie. "unless," he added, as anafterthought, "you will make a bargain with me.""Let me hear about the bargain, black one, for I am hungry," saidKeo."I will let your go if you swear by the tusks of your grandfatherthat you will return to me in a year and a day and become myprisoner again."The youthful hippopotamus paused to think, for he knew it was asolemn thing to swear by the tusks of his grandfather. but he wasexceedingly hungry, and a year and a day seemed a long time off. sohe said, with another careless laugh:"Very well. if you will now let me go I swear by the tusks of mygrandfather to return to you in a year and a day and become yourprisoner."Gouie was much pleased, for he knew that in a year and a day Keowould be almost full grown. So he began digging away one end of thepit and filling it up with the earth until he had made an inclinewhich would allow the hippopotamus to climb out.Keo was so pleased when he found himself upon the surface of theearth again that he indulged in a merry fit of laughter, after whichhe said:"Good by, Gouie. in a year and a day you will see me again."Then he waddled away toward the river to see his mother and get hisbreakfast, and Gouie returned to his village.During the months that followed, as the black man lay in his hut orhunted in the forest, he heard at times the faraway "Guk uk uk uk!"of the laughing hippopotamus. But he only smiled to himself andthought: "A year and a day will soon pass away!"Now when Keo returned to his mother safe and well every member ofhis tribe was filled with joy, for the Jolly One was a generalfavorite. But when he told them that in a year and a day he mustagain become the slave of the black man, they began to wail andweep, and so many were their tears that the river rose severalinches.Of course Keo only laughed at their sorrow. but a great meeting ofthe tribe was called and the matter discussed seriously."Having sworn by the tusks of his grandfather," said Uncle Nikki,"he must keep his promise. But it is our duty to try in some way torescue him from death or a life of slavery."To this all agreed, but no one could think of any method of savingKeo from his fate. So months passed away, during which all the royalhippopotamuses were sad and gloomy except the Jolly One himself.Finally but a week of freedom remained to Keo, and his mother, thequeen, became so nervous and worried that another meeting of thetribe was called. By this time the laughing hippopotamus had grownto enormous size, and measured nearly fifteen feet long and six feethigh, while his sharp tusks were whiter and harder than those of anelephant."Unless something is done to save my child," said the mother, "Ishall die of grief."Then some of her relations began to make foolish suggestions. butpresently Uncle Nep, a wise and very big hippopotamus, said:"We must go to Glinkomok and implore his aid."Then all were silent, for it was a bold thing to face the mightyGlinkomok. But the mother's love was equal to any heroism."I will myself go to him, if Uncle Nep will accompany me," she said,quickly.Uncle Nep thoughtfully patted the soft mud with his fore foot andwagged his short tail leisurely from side to side."We have always been obedient to Glinkomok, and shown him greatrespect," said he. "Therefore I fear no danger in facing him. I willgo with you."All the others snorted approval, being very glad they were notcalled upon to go themselves.So the queen and Uncle Nep, with Keo swimming between them, set outupon their journey. They swam up the river all that day and all thenext, until they came at sundown to a high, rocky wall, beneathwhich was the cave where the might Glinkomok dwelt.This fearful creature was part beast, part man, part fowl and partfish. It had lived since the world began. Through years of wisdom ithad become part sorcerer, part wizard, part magician and part fairy.Mankind knew it not, but the ancient beasts knew and feared it.The three hippopotamuses paused before the cave, with their frontfeet upon the bank and their bodies in the water, and called inchorus a greeting to Glinkomok. Instantly thereafter the mouth ofthe cave darkened and the creature glided silently toward them.The hippopotamuses were afraid to look upon it, and bowed theirheads between their legs."We come, O Glinkomok, to implore your mercy and friendlyassistance!" began Uncle Nep. and then he told the story of Keo'scapture, and how he had promised to return to the black man."He must keep his promise," said the creature, in a voice thatsounded like a sigh.The mother hippopotamus groaned aloud."But I will prepare him to overcome the black man, and to regain hisliberty," continued Glinkomok.Keo laughed."Lift your right paw," commanded Glinkomok. Keo obeyed, and thecreature touched it with its long, hairy tongue. Then it held fourskinny hands over Keo's bowed head and mumbled some words in alanguage unknown to man or beast or fowl or fish. After this itspoke again in hippopotamese:"Your skin has now become so tough that no man can hurt you. Yourstrength is greater than that of ten elephants. Your foot is soswift that you can distance the wind. Your wit is sharper than thebulthorn. Let the man fear, but drive fear from your own breastforever. for of all your race you are the mightiest!"Then the terrible Glinkomok leaned over, and Keo felt its fierybreath scorch him as it whispered some further instructions in hisear. The next moment it glided back into its cave, followed by theloud thanks of the three hippopotamuses, who slid into the water andimmediately began their journey home.The mother's heart was full of joy. Uncle Nep shivered once or twiceas he remembered a glimpse he had caught of Glinkomok. but Keo wasas jolly as possible, and, not content to swim with his dignifiedelders, he dived under their bodies, raced all around them andlaughed merrily every inch of the way home.Then all the tribe held high jinks and praised the mighty Glinkomokfor befriending their queen's son. And when the day came for theJolly One to give himself up to the black man they all kissed himgood by without a single fear for his safety.Keo went away in good spirits, and they could hear his laughing"guk uk uk uk!" long after he was lost in sight in the jungle.Gouie had counted the days and knew when to expect Keo. but he wasastonished at the monstrous size to which his captive had grown, andcongratulated himself on the wise bargain he had made. And Keo wasso fat that Gouie determined to eat him that is, all of him hepossibly could, and the remainder of the carcass he would trade offto his fellow villagers.So he took a knife and tried to stick it into the hippopotamus, butthe skin was so tough the knife was blunted against it. Then hetried other means. but Keo remained unhurt.And now indeed the Jolly One laughed his most gleeful laugh, tillall the forest echoed the "guk uk uk uk uk!" And Gouie decided notto kill him, since that was impossible, but to use him for a beastof burden. He mounted upon Keo's back and commanded him to march. SoKeo trotted briskly through the village, his little eyes twinklingwith merriment.The other blacks were delighted with Gouie's captive, and beggedpermission to ride upon the Jolly One's back. So Gouie bargainedwith them for bracelets and shell necklaces and little goldornaments, until he had acquired quite a heap of trinkets. Then adozen black men climbed upon Keo's back to enjoy a ride, and the onenearest his nose cried out:"Run, Mud dog run!"And Keo ran. Swift as the wind he strode, away from the village,through the forest and straight up the river bank. The black menhowled with fear. the Jolly One roared with laughter. and on, on, onthey rushed!Then before them, on the opposite side of the river, appeared theblack mouth of Glinkomok's cave. Keo dashed into the water, dived tothe bottom and left the black people struggling to swim out. ButGlinkomok had heard the laughter of Keo and knew what to do. Whenthe Jolly One rose to the surface and blew the water from his throatthere was no black man to be seen.Keo returned alone to the village, and Gouie asked, with surprise:"Where are my brothers:""I do not know," answered Keo. "I took them far away, and theyremained where I left them."Gouie would have asked more questions then, but another crowd ofblack men impatiently waited to ride on the back of the laughinghippopotamus. So they paid the price and climbed to their seats,after which the foremost said:"Run, mud wallower run!"And Keo ran as before and carried them to the mouth of Glinkomok'scave, and returned alone.But now Gouie became anxious to know the fate of his fellows, for hewas the only black man left in his village. So he mounted thehippopotamus and cried:"Run, river hog run!"Keo laughed his jolly "guk uk uk uk!" and ran with the speed of thewind. But this time he made straight for the river bank where hisown tribe lived, and when he reached it he waded into the river,dived to the bottom and left Gouie floating in the middle of thestream.The black man began swimming toward the right bank, but there he sawUncle Nep and half the royal tribe waiting to stamp him into thesoft mud. So he turned toward the left bank, and there stood thequeen mother and Uncle Nikki, red eyed and angry, waiting to tearhim with their tusks.Then Gouie uttered loud screams of terror, and, spying the JollyOne, who swam near him, he cried:"Save me, Keo! Save me, and I will release you from slavery!""That is not enough," laughed Keo."I will serve you all my life!" screamed Gouie. "I will doeverything you bid me!""Will you return to me in a year and a day and become my captive, ifI allow you to escape?" asked Keo."I will! I will! I will!" cried Gouie."Swear it by the bones of your grandfather!" commanded Keo,remembering that black men have no tusks to swear by.And Gouie swore it by the bones of his grandfather.Then Keo swam to the black one, who clambered upon his back again.In this fashion they came to the bank, where Keo told his mother andall the tribe of the bargain he had made with Gouie, who was toreturn in a year and a day and become his slave.Therefore the black man was permitted to depart in peace, and oncemore the Jolly One lived with his own people and was happy.When a year and a day had passed Keo began watching for the returnof Gouie. but he did not come, then or ever afterwards.For the black man had made a bundle of his bracelets and shellnecklaces and little gold ornaments and had traveled many miles intoanother country, where the ancient and royal tribe of hippopotamuseswas unknown. And he set up for a great chief, because of his riches,and people bowed down before him.By day he was proud and swaggering. But at night he tumbled andtossed upon his bed and could not sleep. His conscience troubledhim.For he had sworn by the bones of his grandfather. and hisgrandfather had no bones.