Once upon a time there lived in a little village in the very middle ofFrance a widow and her only son, a boy about fifteen, whose name wasAntoine, though no one ever called him anything but Toueno Boueno. Theywere very poor indeed, and their hut shook about their ears on windynights, till they expected the walls to fall in and crush them, butinstead of going to work as a boy of his age ought to do, Toueno Bouenodid nothing but lounge along the street, his eyes fixed on the ground,seeing nothing that went on round him.'You are very, very stupid, my dear child,' his mother would sometimessay to him, and then she would add with a laugh, 'Certainly you willnever catch a wolf by the tail.'One day the old woman bade Antoine go into the forest and collect enoughdry leaves to make beds for herself and him. Before he had finished itbegan to rain heavily, so he hid himself in the hollow trunk of a tree,where he was so dry and comfortable that he soon fell fast asleep. Byand by he was awakened by a noise which sounded like a dog scratchingat the door, and he suddenly felt frightened, why he did not know. Verycautiously he raised his head, and right above him he saw a big hairyanimal, coming down tail foremost.'It is the wolf that they talk so much about,' he said to himself, andhe made himself as small as he could and shrunk into a corner.The wolf came down the inside of the tree, slowly, slowly. Antoinefelt turned to stone, so terrified was he, and hardly dared to breathe.Suddenly an idea entered his mind, which he thought might save himstill. He remembered to have heard from his mother that a wolf couldneither bend his back nor turn his head, so as to look behind him, andquick as lightning he stretched up his hand, and seizing the wolf'stail, pulled it towards him.Then he left the tree and dragged the animal to his mother's house.'Mother, you have often declared that I was too stupid to catch a wolfby the tail. Now see,' he cried triumphantly.'Well, well, wonders will never cease,' answered the good woman, whotook care to keep at a safe distance. 'But as you really have got him,let us see if we can't put him to some use. Fetch the skin of the ramwhich died last week out of the chest, and we will sew the wolf up init. He will make a splendid ram, and to morrow we will drive him to thefair and sell him.'Very likely the wolf, who was cunning and clever, may have understoodwhat she said, but he thought it best to give no sign, and suffered theskin to be sewn upon him.'I can always get away if I choose,' thought he, 'it is better not tobe in a hurry.' so he remained quite still while the skin was drawn overhis head, which made him very hot and uncomfortable, and resisted thetemptation to snap off the fingers or noses that were so close to hismouth.The fair was at its height next day when Toueno Boueno arrived with hiswolf in ram's clothing. All the farmers crowded round him, each offeringa higher price than the last. Never had they beheld such a beautifulbeast, said they, and at last, after much bargaining, he was handed overto three brothers for a good sum of money.It happened that these three brothers owned large flocks of sheep,though none so large and fine as the one they had just bought.'My flock is the nearest,' observed the eldest brother. 'we will leavehim in the fold for the night, and to morrow we will decide whichpastures will be best for him.' And the wolf grinned as he listened, andheld up his head a little higher than before.Early next morning the young farmer began to go his rounds, and thesheep fold was the first place he visited. To his horror, the sheep wereall stretched out dead before him, except one, which the wolf had eaten,bones and all. Instantly the truth flashed upon him. It was no ram thatlay curled up in the corner pretending to be asleep (for in reality hecould bend back and turn his head as much as he liked), but a wolf whowas watching him out of the corner of his eye, and might spring upon himat any moment. So the farmer took no notice, and only thought that herewas a fine chance of revenging himself on his next brother for a trickwhich he had played, and merely told him that the ram would not eat thegrass in that field, and it might be well to drive him to the pasture bythe river, where his own flock was feeding. The second brother eagerlyswallowed the bait, and that evening the wolf was driven down to thefield where the young man kept the sheep which had been left him byhis father. By the next morning they also were all dead, but the secondbrother likewise held his peace, and allowed the sheep which belongedto the youngest to share the fate of the other two. Then they met andconfessed to each other their disasters, and resolved to take theanimal as fast as possible back to Toueno Boueno, who should get a soundthrashing.Antoine was sitting on a plum tree belonging to a neighbour, eatingthe ripe fruit, when he saw the three young farmers coming towards him.Swinging himself down, he flew home to the hut, crying breathlessly,'Mother, mother, the farmers are close by with the wolf. They have foundout all about it, and will certainly kill me, and perhaps you too. Butif you do as I tell you, I may be able to save us both. Lie down onthe floor, and pretend to be dead, and be sure not to speak, whateverhappens.Thus when the three brothers, each armed with a whip, entered the hut afew seconds later, they found a woman extended on the floor, and Touenokneeling at her side, whistling loudly into her ears.'What are you doing now, you rascal?' asked the eldest.'What am I doing? Oh, my poor friends, I am the most miserable creaturein the world! I have lost the best of mothers, and I don't know whatwill become of me,' and he hid his face in his hands and sobbed again.'But what are you whistling like that for?''Well, it is the only chance. This whistle has been known to bring thedead back to life, and I hoped ' here he buried his face in his handsagain, but peeping between his fingers he saw that the brother hadopened their six eyes as wide as saucers.'Look!' he suddenly exclaimed with a cry, 'Look! I am sure I felt herbody move! And now her nostrils are twitching. Ah! the whistle hasnot lost its power after all,' and stooping down, Toueno whistled moreloudly than before, so that the old woman's feet and hands showed signsof life, and she soon was able to life her head.The farmers were so astonished at her restoration, that it was sometime before they could speak. At length the eldest turned to the boy andsaid:'Now listen to me. There is no manner of doubt that you are a youngvillain. You sold us a ram knowing full well that it was a wolf, andwe came here to day to pay you out for it. But if you will give us thatwhistle, we will pardon what you have done, and will leave you alone.''It is my only treasure, and I set great store by it,' answered the boy,pretending to hesitate. 'But as you wish for it so much, well, I supposeI can't refuse,' and he held out the whistle, which the eldest brotherput in his pocket.Armed with the precious whistle, the three brothers returned home fullof joy, and as they went the youngest said to the others, 'I have sucha good idea! Our wives are all lazy and grumbling, and make our lives aburden. Let us give them a lesson, and kill them as soon as we get in.Of course we can restore them to life at once, but they will have had arare fright.''Ah, how clever you are,' answered the other two. 'Nobody else wouldhave thought of that.'So gaily the three husbands knocked down their three wives, who felldead to the ground. Then one by one the men tried the whistle, and blewso loudly that it seemed as if their lungs would burst, but the womenlay stark and stiff and never moved an eyelid. The husbands grew paleand cold, for they had never dreamed of this, nor meant any harm, andafter a while they understood that their efforts were of no use, andthat once more the boy had tricked them. With stern faces they rose totheir feet, and taking a large sack they retraced their steps to thehut.This time there was no escape. Toueno had been asleep, and only openedhis eyes as they entered. Without a word on either side they thrusthim into the sack, and tying up the mouth, the eldest threw it over hisshoulder. After that they all set out to the river, where they intendedto drown the boy.But the river was a long way off, and the day was very hot, and Antoinewas heavy, heavier than a whole sheaf of corn. They carried him inturns, but even so they grew very tired and thirsty, and when a littletavern came in sight on the roadside, they thankfully flung the sackdown on a bench and entered to refresh themselves. They never noticedthat a beggar was sitting in the shade at the end of the bench, butToueno's sharp ears caught the sound of someone eating, and as soon asthe farmers had gone into the inn he began to groan softly.'What is the matter?' asked the beggar, drawing a little nearer. 'Whyhave they shut you up, poor boy?''Because they wanted to make me a bishop, and I would not consent,'answered Toueno.'Dear me,' exclaimed the beggar, 'yet it isn't such a bad thing to be abishop.''I don't say it is,' replied the young rascal, 'but I should never likeit. However, if you have any fancy for wearing a mitre, you need onlyuntie the sack, and take my place.''I should like nothing better,' said the man, as he stooped to undo thebig knot.So it was the beggar and not Toueno Boueno who was flung into the water.The next morning the three wives were buried, and on returning from thecemetery, their husbands met Toueno Boueno driving a magnificentflock of sheep. At the sight of him the three farmers stood still withastonishment.'What! you scoundrel!' they cried at last, 'we drowned you yesterday,and to day we find you again, as well as ever!''It does seem odd, doesn't it?' answered he. 'But perhaps you don't knowthat beneath this world there lies another yet more beautiful and far,far richer. Well, it was there that you sent me when you flung me intothe river, and though I felt a little strange at first, yet I soon beganto look about me, and to see what was happening. There I noticed thatclose to the place where I had fallen, a sheep fair was being held, anda bystander told me that every day horses or cattle were sold somewherein the town. If I had only had the luck to be thrown into the river onthe side of the horse fair I might have made my fortune! As it was, Ihad to content myself with buying these sheep, which you can get fornothing.''And do you know exactly the spot in the river which lies over the horsefair?''As if I did not know it, when I have seen it with my own eyes.''Then if you do not want us to avenge our dead flocks and our murderedwives, you will have to throw us into the river just over the place ofthe horse fair.''Very well. only you must get three sacks and come with me to that rockwhich juts into the river. I will throw you in from there, and you willfall nearly on to the horses' backs.'So he threw them in, and as they were never seen again, no one ever knewinto which fair they had fallen.From 'Litterature Orale de L'Auvergne,' par Paul Sebillot.