Once upon a time there was a miller's servant who had served his masterfaithfully and diligently for many years. He had grown old in the mill,and the heavy work that he had to do there finally surpassed his strength.So one day he said to his master: "I can no longer serve you. I am tooweak. I am therefore asking you for my dismissal and my wages."The miller said: "The time of wandering servants has passed. You arefree to leave if you wish, but you will receive no wages.Now the old servant would sooner give up his wages than to continue tobe tormented in the mill, so he took leave from his master.Before leaving home he went to the animals that until now he had fedand tended, in order to bid them farewell. While taking leave from thehorse, it said to him: "Where are you going?""I have to leave," he said. "I cannot take it here any longer." Andwhen he set forth, the horse followed along after him.He then went to the ox, stroked him once again, and said: "God be withyou, old fellow!""Where are you going?" spoke the ox."Oh, I must leave. I cannot take it here any longer," said the miller'sservant and sadly went on his way to take leave from the dog. The oxfollowed along behind, just as the horse had done. And the other animalsto whom he said farewell   the dog, the cat, the goose, and the rooster   all did thesame thing.He made his way out into the country, where he first noticed that thefaithful animals were following him. He spoke to them in a friendlymanner, asking them to turn around and return home. "I have nothing morefor myself," he said, "and I can no longer care for you." But the animalstold him that they would not abandon him, and they contentedly followedalong behind.After several days they came to a great forest. Here the horse and theox found good grass, which the goose and the rooster enjoyed as well.However, the other animals   the cat and the dog   had to suffer hunger,as did the old miller's servant. but they did not grumble and complain.Finally, after having gone very deep into the forest, they suddenly saw alarge, beautiful house before them. It was locked up securely. Only anempty stall was open, and from here they could go through the barn intothe house itself.Because no one could be seen in the house, the servant decided to staythere with his animals, and he assigned each one to a place. He put thehorse up front in the stall. He led the ox to the other side. The roosterwas given a place on the roof, the dog on the manure pile, the cat on thehearth, and the goose behind the stove. Then he gave each one his feed,which was plentifully stored in the house. He himself ate and drank all hewanted, then fell asleep in a good bed, which was all made up in thebedroom.During the night, while he was fast asleep, the robber   who owned theforest house   returned. As he stepped into yard, the dog jumped on himfuriously, and barked at him. The rooster cried down from the roof:"Cock a doodle doo, cock a doodle doo!" All this terrified the robber, forhe had never seen farm animals that live with people, knowing instead onlythe wild animals of the forest. He fled hurriedly into the stall, butthere the horse kicked out from behind, hitting him in the side. Hestaggered around and around, and only with difficulty could he retreatinto the back part of the stall. He scarcely arrived there when the oxturned around and tried to pick him up on his horns. This frightened himanew, and he ran as fast as he could through the barn and into thekitchen, where he wanted to strike a light and see what was there. Feelingaround the hearth, he touched the cat, which jumped on him and scratchedhim with its claws until jumped away head over heels, and tried to hidebehind the stove in the main room. The goose jumped up, screaming andbeating its wings. The terrified robber fled into the bedroom. There themiller's servant was snoring mightily like a purring spinning wheel, andthe robber thought the entire room was filled with strangers. You hadbetter believe that he was overcome by a terrible fear. He rushed out ofthe house and ran into the woods, not stopping until until he had foundhis fellow robbers.He began talking: "I don't know what has happened in our house. Somestrange people are living there. When I stepped into the yard a largewildman jumped at me, yelling and bellowing so terribly that I thought hewould kill me. An another one cheered him on, calling down from the roof:'Hit him for me too! Hit him for me too!' The first one was bad enough. Iwasn't going to wait for more of them to jump me, so I fled into thestall. There a shoemaker threw a last at my side, and I can still feelwhere it hit. I ran to the back of the stall. A pitchfork maker wasstanding there who tried to impale me on his pitchfork. I ran into thekitchen, where a hackle maker beat me with his hackle (a sharp toothedtool for combing flax). I tried to hide behind the stove, but there was ashovel maker there who beat me with his shovel. Finally I ran into thebedroom, but there were so many others snoring in there that was happy toescape with my life."When the robbers heard this, they were so horrified that not a one ofthem had any desire to enter the house. To the contrary, they believedthat the entire region was threatened by these strange people. That samenight they departed for another country, and they never returned.The miller's servant lived in peace in the robbers' house with hisfaithful animals. He no longer had to suffer in his old age, for thebeautiful garden next to the house produced more fruit, vegetables, andall kinds of food every year than he and his animals could eat.