Once there was a man of the Goala caste (a caste of cattle herders),who looked after the cattle of a rich farmer. One day a cow dropped a calfin the jungle without the Goala knowing, and at evening the cow camerunning to join the others, without the calf. When they got home the cowkept on lowing, and the master asked whether she had had a calf. The Goalahad to confess that the calf had been left in the jungle. The masterscolded him well, so he took a rope and stick and went out into thenight.But when he got to the jungle he could not hear the calf, so he decidedto wait where he was till the morning. He was too frightened of wildanimals to stay on the ground, so he climbed a tree, leaving the stick andrope at the foot of it. Soon a tiger smelt him out and came to the place.Then the stick and the rope took council together as to how they couldsave their master. The stick saw that it could not see in the dark and sowas powerless. So the rope agreed to fight first, and it whirled itselfround in the air with a whistling noise, and the tiger, hearing the noiseand seeing no one, got frightened, and thought that there was an evilspirit there. So it did not dare to come very near, and in the morning ittook itself off.Then the Goala saw the cow come to look for her calf, so he took up thestick and rope and followed her. The cow soon found her calf and asked itwhether it had not been very cold and uncomfortable all night. But thecalf said, "No, mother, I put my foot in these four pots of rupees, andthey kept me warm."The Goala heard this and resolved to see if it were true. So he dug upthe earth where the calf had been lying and soon uncovered the rims offour pots full of money. But the Goala did not dare to take the money homefor fear his wife should talk about it. He resolved to see first whetherhis wife could keep a secret.So he went home and told her to cook him some food quickly. She askedwhy, and he said, "The raja has a tortoise inside him, and I am going tolook at him."Then his wife said that she must fetch some water, and she went offwith the water pot. On the way she met several women of the village, whoasked her why she was fetching water so early, and she said, "Because theraja has a tortoise inside him, and my husband is going off to seeit."In less than an hour the village was full of the news, and the rumorspread until it reached the ears of the raja. The raja was very angry andsaid that he would kill the man who started the report, unless he couldprove it to be true. So he sent messengers throughout the country to traceback the rumor to its source.One messenger found out that it was the Goala who had started the storyand told him that the raja wanted to give him a present. So he gladly puton his best clothes and went off to the raja's palace. But the raja hadhim bound with ropes, and then questioned him as to why he had told afalse story. The Goala admitted that his story was false, but explainedthat he had only told it to his wife, in order to see whether she couldkeep a secret, because he had found four pots of money.The raja asked where the money was, and the Goala said that he wouldshow it, but he wanted to know first how much of it he was to have forhimself. The raja promised him half, so the Goala led men to the place,and they dug up the money, and the Goala kept half and became a richman.Moral :However friendly you are with a man, do not tell him what is in yourheart, and never tell your wife the real truth, for one day she will loseher temper and let the matter out.