In the north of Ireland there are spinning meetings of unmarriedfemales frequently held at the houses of farmers, called kemps .Every young woman who has got the reputation of being a quick and expertspinner attends where the kemp is to be held, at an hour usually beforedaylight, and on these occasions she is accompanied by her sweetheart orsome male relative, who carries her wheel, and conducts her safely acrossthe fields or along the road, as the case may be.A kemp is, indeed, an animated and joyous scene, and one, besides whichis calculated to promote industry and decent pride. Scarcely anything canbe more cheering and agreeable than to hear at a distance, breaking thesilence of morning, the light hearted voices of many girls either in mirthor song, the humming sound of the busy wheels   jarred upon a little, itis true, by the stridulous noise and checkings of the reels, and thevoices of the reelers, as they call aloud the checks, together with thename of the girl and the quantity she has spun up to that period. for thecontest is generally commenced two or three hours before daybreak. Thismirthful spirit is also sustained by the prospect of a dance   withwhich, by the way, every kemp closes. and when the fair victor isdeclared, she is to be looked upon as the queen of the meeting, andtreated with the necessary respect.But to our tale. Everyone knew Shaun Buie M'Gaveran to be the cleanest,best conducted boy, and the most industrious too, in the whole parish ofFaugh a ballagh. Hard was it to find a young fellow who could handle aflail, spade, or reaping hook in better style, or who could go through hisday's work in a more creditable or workmanlike manner. In addition tothis, he was a fine, well built, handsome young man as you could meet in afair. and so, sign was on it, maybe the pretty girls weren't likely topull each other's caps about him Shaun, however, was as prudent as he wasgood looking. and although he wanted a wife, yet the sorrow one of him butpreferred taking a well handed, smart girl, who was known to be wellbehaved and industrious, like himself. Here, however, was where the puzzlelay on him. for instead of one girl of that kind, there were in theneighborhood no less than a dozen of them   all equally fit and willingto become his wife, and all equally good looking.There were two, however, whom he thought a trifle above the rest. butso nicely balanced were Biddy Corrigan and Sally Gorman, that for the lifeof him he could not make up his mind to decide between them. Each of themhad won her kemp. and it was currently said by them who ought to know,that neither of them could overmatch the other. No two girls in the parishwere better respected, or deserved to be so. and the consequence was, theyhad everyone's good word and good wish.Now it so happened that Shaun had been pulling a cord with each. and ashe knew not how to decide between, he thought he would allow them to dothat themselves if they could. He accordingly gave out to the neighborsthat he would hold a kemp on that day week, and he told Biddy and Sallyespecially that he had made up his mind to marry whichever of them won thekemp, for he knew right well, as did all the parish, that on of them must.The girls agreed to this very good humoredly, Biddy telling Sally that she(Sally) would surely win it. and Sally not to be outdone in civility,telling the same thing to her.Well, the week was nearly past, there being but two days till that ofthe kemp, when, about three o'clock, there walks into the house of oldPaddy Corrigan a little woman dressed in high heeled shoes and a short redcloak. There was no one in the house but Biddy at the time, who rose upand placed a chair near the fire, and asked the little red woman to sitdown and rest herself. She accordingly did so, and in a short time alively chat commenced between them."So," said the strange woman, "there's to be a great kemp in Shaun BuieM'Gaveran's?""Indeed there is that, good woman," replied Biddy, smiling and blushingto back of that again, because she knew her own fate depended on it."And," continued the little woman, "whoever wins the kemp wins ahusband?""Aye, so it seems.""Well, whoever gets Shaun will be a happy woman, for he's the moral ofa good boy.""That's nothing but the truth, anyhow," replied Biddy, sighing, forfear, you may be sure, that she herself might lose him. and indeed a youngwoman might sigh from many a worse reason. "But," said she, changing thesubject, "you appear to be tired, honest woman, an' I think you had bettereat a bit, an' take a good drink of buinnhe ramwher (thick milk) tohelp you on you journey.""Thank you kindly, a colleen," said the woman. "I'll take a bit, of youplase, hopin', at the same time, that you won't be the poorer of it thisday twelve months.""Sure," said the girl, "you know that what we give from kindness everan' always leaves a blessing behind it.""Yes, acushla, when it is given from kindness."She accordingly helped herself to the food that Biddy placed beforeher, and appeared, after eating, to be very much refreshed."Now," said she, rising up, "you're a very good girl, an' if you areable to find out my name before Tuesday, the kemp day, I tell you thatyou'll win it, and gain the husband.""Why," said Biddy, "I never saw you before. I don't know who you are,nor where you live. how then can I ever find out your name?""You never saw me before, sure enough," said the old woman, "an' I tellyou that you never will see me again but once. an' yet if you have not myname for me at the close of the kemp, you'll lose all, an' that will leaveyou a sore heart, for well I know you love Shaun Buie."So saying, she went away, and left poor Biddy quite cast down at whatshe had said, for, to tell the truth, she loved Shaun very much, and hadno hopes of being able to find out the name of the little woman, on which,it appeared, so much to her depended.It was very near the same hour of the same day that Sally Gorman wassitting alone in her father's house, thinking of the kemp, when who shouldwalk in to her but our friend the little red woman."God save you, honest woman," said Sally, "this is a fine day that's init, the Lord be praised!""It is," said the woman, "as fine a day as one could wish for. indeedit is.""Have you no news on your travels?" asked Sally."The only news in the neighborhood," replied the other, "is this greatkemp that's to take place a Shaun Buie B'Gaveran's. They say you're eitherto win him or lose him then," she added, looking closely at Sally as shespoke."I'm not very much afraid of that," said Sally, with confidence. "buteven if I do lose him, I may get as good.""It's not easy gettin' as good," rejoined the old woman, "an' you oughtto be very glad to win him, if you can.""Let me alone for that," said Sally. "Biddy's a good girl, I allow. butas for spinnin', she never saw the day she could leave me behind her.Won't you sit an' rest you?" she added. "maybe you're tired.""It's time for you to think of it," thought the woman, but shespoke nothing. "but," she added to herself on reflection, "it's betterlate than never   I'll sit awhile, till I see a little closer what she'smade of."She accordingly sat down and chatted upon several subjects such asyoung women like to talk about, for about half an hour. after which shearose, and taking her little staff in hand, she bade Sally good bye, andwent her way.After passing a little from the house she looked back, and could nothelp speaking to herself as follows:She's smooth and smart,But she wants the heart.She's tight and neat,But she gave no meat.Poor Biddy now made all possible inquiries about the old woman, but tono purpose. Not a soul she spoke to about her had ever seen or heard ofsuch a woman. She felt very dispirited, and began to lose heart, for thereis no doubt that if she missed Shaun it would have cost her many asorrowful day. She knew she would never get his equal, or at least anyonethat she loved so well.At last the kemp day came, and with it all the pretty girls of theneighborhood to Shaun Buie's. Among the rest, the two that were to decidetheir right to him were doubtless the handsomest pair by far, and everyoneadmired them. To be sure, it was a blithe and merry place, and many alight laugh and sweet song rang out from pretty lips that day. Biddy andSally, as everyone expected were far ahead of the rest, but so even intheir spinning that the reelers could not for the life of them declarewhich was the better. It was neck and neck and head and head between thepretty creatures, and all who were at the kemp felt themselves would up tothe highest pitch of interest and curiosity to know which of them would besuccessful.The day was now more than half gone, and no difference was betweenthem, when, to the surprise and sorrow of everyone present, BiddyCorrigan's heck broke in two, and so to all appearance ended thecontest in favor of her rival. and what added to her mortification, shewas ignorant of the little red woman's name as ever. What was to be done?All that could be done was done. Her brother, a boy of about fourteenyears of age, happened to be present when the accident took place, havingbeen sent by his father and mother to bring them word how the match wenton between the rival spinsters. Johnny Corrigan was accordingly dispatchedwith all speed to Donnel M'Cusker's, the wheelwright, in order to get theheck mended, that being Biddy's last but hopeless chance. Johnny's anxietythat his sister should win was of course very great, and in order to loseas little time as possible he struck across the country, passing through,or rather close by, Kilrudden forth, a place celebrated as a resort of thefairies. What was his astonishment, however, as he passed a white thorntree, to hear a female voice singing, in accompaniment to the sound of aspinning wheel, the following words:There's a girl in this town doesn't know my name.But my name's Even Trot   Even Trot."There's a girl in this town," said the lad, "who's in great distress,for she has broken her heck, and lost a husband. I'm now goin' to DonnelM'Cusker's to get it mended.""What's her name?" said the little red woman."Biddy Corrigan."The little woman immediately whipped out the heck from her own wheel,and giving it to the boy, desired him to take it to his sister, and nevermind Donnel M'Cusker."You have little time to lose," she added, "so go back and give herthis. but don't tell her how you got it, nor, above all things, that itwas Even Trot that gave it to you."The lad returned, and after giving the heck to his sister, as a matterof course told her that it was a little red woman called Even Trot thatsent it to her, a circumstance which made tears of delight start toBiddy's eyes, for she know now that Even Trot was the name of the oldwoman, and having know that she felt that something good would happen toher. She now resumed her spinning, and never did human fingers let downthe thread so rapidly. The whole kemp were amazed at the quantity whichfrom time to time filled her pirn. The hearts of her friends began torise, and those of Sally's party to sink, as hour after hour she was fastapproaching her rival, who now spun if possible with double speed onfinding Biddy coming up with her.At length they were again even, and just at that moment in came herfriend the little red woman, and asked aloud, "Is there anyone in thiskemp that knows my name?" This question she asked three times before Biddycould pluck up courage to answer her. She at last said:There's a girl in this town does know my name  Your name is Even Trot   Even Trot."Aye," said the old woman, "and so it is. and let that name be yourguide and your husband's through life. Go steadily along, but let yourstep be even. stop little. keep always advancing. and you'll never havecause to rue the day that you first saw Even Trot."We need scarcely add that Biddy won the kemp and the husband, and thatshe and Shaun lived long and happily together. and I have only now towish, kind reader, that you and I may live longer and more happilystill.