O King of the age, I came to this thy country with merchandiseand Destiny stayed me here with you: but my place of birth wasCairo, in Egypt, where I also was brought up, for I am one of theCopts and my father was a broker before me. When I came to man'sestate he departed this life and I succeeded to his business. Oneday, as I was sitting in my shop, behold, there came up to me ayouth as handsome as could be, wearing sumptuous raiment andriding a fine ass. When he saw me he saluted me, and Istood up to do him honour: then he took out a kerchief containinga sample of sesame and asked, "How much is this worth perArdabb?". whereto I answered, "An hundred dirhams." Quothhe, "Take porters and gaugers and metesmen and come tomorrow tothe Khan al Jawali, by the Gate of Victory quarter wherethou wilt find me." Then he fared forth leaving with me thesample of sesame in his kerchief. and I went the round of mycustomers and ascertained that every Ardabb would fetch anhundred and twenty dirhams. Next day I took four metesmen andwalked with them to the Khan, where I found him awaiting me. Assoon as he saw me he rose and opened his magazine, when wemeasured the grain till the store was empty. and we found thecontents fifty Ardabbs, making five thousand pieces of silver.Then said he, "Let ten dirhams on every Ardabb be thy brokerage.so take the price and keep in deposit four thousand and fivehundred dirhams for me. and, when I have made an end of sellingthe other wares in my warehouses, I will come to thee and receivethe amount." "I will well," replied I and kissing his hand wentaway, having made that day a profit of a thousand dirhams. He wasabsent a month, at the end of which he came to me and asked,"Where be the dirhams?" I rose and saluted him and answered tohim, "Wilt thou not eat somewhat in my house?" But he refusedwith the remark, "Get the monies ready and I will presentlyreturn and take them." Then he rode away. So I brought out thedirhams and sat down to await him, but he stayed away for anothermonth, when he came back and said to me, "Where be the dirhams?"I rose and saluting him asked, "Wilt thou not eat some thing inmy house?" But he again refused adding, "Get me the monies readyand I will presently return and take them." Then he rode off. SoI brought out the dirhams and sat down to await his return. buthe stayed away from me a third month, and I said, "Verily thisyoung man is liberality in incarnate form." At the end of themonth he came up, riding a mare mule and wearing a suit ofsumptuous raiment. he was as the moon on the night of fullness,and he seemed as if fresh from the baths, with his cheeks rosybright, and his brow flower white, and a mole spot like a grainof ambergris delighting the sight. even as was said of such anone by the poet: Full moon with sun in single mansion In brightest sheen andfortune rose and shone,With happy splendour changing every sprite: Hail to whatguerdons prayer with blissful! boon!Their charms and grace have gained perfection's height, Allhearts have conquered and all wits have won.Laud to the Lord for works so wonder strange, And what th'Almighty wills His hand hath done!When I saw him I rose to him and invoking blessings on him asked,O my lord, wilt thou not take thy monies?" "Whence thehurry?" quoth he, "Wait till I have made an end of mybusiness and then I will come and take them." Again he rode awayand I said to myself, "By Allah, when he comes next time needsmust I make him my guest. for I have traded with his dirhams andhave gotten large gains thereby." At the end of the year he cameagain, habited in a suit of clothes more sumptuous than theformer. and, when I conjured him by the Evangel to alight at myhouse and eat of my guest food, he said, "I consent, on conditionthat what thou expendest on me shall be of my monies still in thyhands. I answered, "So be it," and made him sit down whilst I gotready what was needful of meat and drink and else besides. andset the tray before him, with the invitation "Bismillah"!Then he drew near the tray and put out his left hand andate with me. and I marvelled at his not using the right hand.When we had done eating, I poured water on his hand and gave himwherewith to wipe it. Upon this we sat down to converse after Ihad set before him some sweetmeats. and I said to him, "O mymaster, prithee relieve me by telling me why thou eatest with thyleft hand? Perchance something aileth thy other hand?" When heheard my words, he repeated these verses: "Dear friend, ask not what burneth in my breast, Lest thou seefiery pangs eye never saw:Wills not my heart to harbour Salma in stead OfLayla's love, but need hath ne'er a law!"And he put out his right arm from his sleeve and behold, the handwas cut off, a wrist without a fist. I was astounded at this buthe said, "Marvel not, and think not that I ate with my left handfor conceit and insolence, but from necessity. and the cuttingoff my right hand was caused by an adventure of the strangest."Asked I, "And what caused it?". and he answered: "Know that I amof the sons of Baghdad and my father was of notables of thatcity. When I came to man's estate I heard the pilgrims andwayfarers, travellers and merchants talk of the land of Egypt andtheir words sank deep into my mind till my parent died, when Itook a large sum of money and furnished myself for trade withstuffs of Baghdad and Mosul and, packing them up in bales, setout on my wanderings. and Allah decreed me safety till I enteredthis your city. Then he wept and began repeating: The blear eyed 'scapes the pits Wherein the lynx eyed fall:A word the wise man slays And saves the natural:The Moslem fails of food The Kafir feasts in hall:What art or act is man's? God's will obligeth all!Now when he had ended his verse he said, So I entered Cairo andtook off my loads and stored my stuffs in the Khan "Al Masrur." Then I gave the servant a few silvers wherewithto buy me some food and lay down to sleep awhile. When I awoke Iwent to the street called "Bayn al Kasrayn" Between the twoPalaces and presently returned and rested my night in the Khan.When it was morning I opened a bale and took out some stuffsaying to myself, "I will be off and go through some of thebazaars and see the state of the market." So I loaded the stuffon some of my slaves and fared forth till I reached theKaysariyah or Exchange of Jaharkas. where the brokers whoknew of my coming came to meet me. They took the stuffs and criedthem for sale, but could not get the prime cost of them. I wasvexed at this, however the Shaykh of the brokers said to me, "Omy lord, I will tell thee how thou mayest make a profit of thygoods. Thou shouldest do as the merchants do and sell thymerchandise at credit for a fixed period, on a contract drawn upby a notary and duly witnessed. and employ a Shroff to take thydues every Monday and Thursday. So shalt thou gain two dirhamsand more, for every one. and thou shalt solace and divert thyselfby seeing Cairo and the Nile." Quoth I, "This is sound advice,"and carried the brokers to the Khan. They took my stuffs and wentwith them on 'Change where I sold them well taking bonds for thevalue. These bonds I deposited with a Shroff, a banker, who gaveme a receipt with which I returned to the Khan. Here I stayed awhole month, every morning breaking my fast with a cup of wineand making my meals on pigeon's meat, mutton and sweetmeats, tillthe time came when my receipts began to fall due. So, everyMonday and Thursday I used to go on 'Change and sit in the shopof one or other of the merchants, whilst the notary and moneychanger went round to recover the monies from the traders, tillafter the time of mid afternoon prayer, when they brought me theamount, and I counted it and, sealing the bags, returned withthem to the Khan. On a certain day which happened to be aMonday, I went to the Hammam and thence back to my Khan,and sitting in my own room broke my fast with a cup ofwine, after which I slept a little. When I awoke I ate a chickenand, perfuming my person, repaired to the shop of a merchanthight Badr al Din al Bostani, or the Gardener, whowelcomed me. and we sat talking awhile till the bazaar shouldopen. Presently, behold, up came a lady of stately figure wearinga head dress of the most magnificent, perfumed with the sweetestof scents and walking with graceful swaying gait. and seeing meshe raised her mantilla allowing me a glimpse of her beautifulblack eyes. She saluted Badr al Din who returned her salutationand stood up, and talked with her. and the moment I heard herspeak, the love of her got hold of my heart. Presently she saidto Badr al Din, "Hast thou by thee a cut piece of stuff wovenwith thread of pure gold?" So he brought out to her a piece fromthose he had bought of me and sold it to her for one thousand twohundred dirhams. when she said, "I will take the piece home withme and send thee its price." "That is impossible, O my lady," themerchant replied, "for here is the owner of the stuff and I owehim a share of profit." "Fie upon thee!" she cried, "Do I not useto take from thee entire rolls of costly stuff, and give thee agreater profit than thou expectest, and send thee the money?""Yes," rejoined he. "but I stand in pressing need of the pricethis very day." Hereupon she took up the piece and threw it backupon his lap, saying "Out on thee! Allah confound the tribe ofyou which estimates none at the right value." and she turned togo. I felt my very soul going with her. so I stood up and stayedher, saying, "I conjure thee by the Lord, O my lady, favour me byretracing thy gracious steps." She turned back with a smile andsaid, "For thy sake I return," and took a seat opposite me in theshop. Then quoth I to Badr al Din, "What is the price they askedthee for this piece?". and quoth he, "Eleven hundred dirhams." Irejoined, "The odd hundred shall be thy profit: bring me a sheetof paper and I will write thee a discharge for it." Then I wrotehim a receipt in my own handwriting and gave the piece to thelady, saying, "Take it away with thee and, if thou wilt, bring meits price next bazaar day. or better still, accept it as my guestgift to thee." "Allah requite thee with good," answered she, "andmake thee my husband and lord and master of all I have!"And Allah favoured her prayer. I saw the Gates of Paradise swingopen before me and said, "O my lady, let this piece of stuff benow thine and another like it is ready for thee, only let me haveone look at thy face." So she raised her veil and I saw a facethe sight of which bequeathed to me a thousand sighs, and myheart was so captivated by her love that I was no longer ruler ofmy reason. Then she let fall her face veil and taking up thepiece of stuff said, "O my lord make me not desolate by thineabsence!" and turned away and disappeared from my sight. Iremained sitting on 'Change till past the hour of after noonprayer, lost to the world by the love which had mastered me, andthe violence of my passion compelled me to make enquiriesconcerning her of the merchant, who answered me, "This is a ladyand a rich: she is the daughter of a certain Emir who lately diedand left her a large fortune." Then I took leave of him andreturned home to the Khan where they set supper before me. but Icould not eat for thinking of her and when I lay down to sleep,sleep came not near me. So I watched till morning, when I aroseand donned a change of raiment and drank a cup of wine and, afterbreaking my fast on some slight matter, I went to the merchant'sshop where I saluted him and sat down by him. Presently up camethe lady as usual, followed by a slave girl and wearing a dressmore sumptuous than before. and she saluted me without noticingBadr al Din and said in fluent graceful speech (never heard Ivoice softer or sweeter), "Send one with me to take the thousandand two hundred dirhams, the price of the piece." "Why thishurry?" asked I and she answered, "May we never losethee!" and handed me the money. Then I sat talking withher and presently I signed to her in dumb show, whereby sheunderstood that I longed to enjoy her person, and sherose up in haste with a show of displeasure. My heart clung toher and I went forth from the bazaar and followed on her track.As I was walking suddenly a black slave girl stopped me and said,"O my master, come speak with my mistress." At this I wassurprised and replied, "There is none who knows me here." but sherejoined, "0 my lord, how soon hast thou forgotten her! My ladyis the same who was this day at the shop of such a merchant."Then I went with her to the Shroff's, where I found the lady whodrew me to her side and said, "O my beloved, thine image isfirmly stamped upon my fancy, and love of thee hath gotten holdof my heart: from the hour I first saw thee nor sleep nor foodnor drink hath given me aught of pleasure." I replied, "Thedouble of that suffering is mine and my state dispenseth me fromcomplaint." Then said she, "O my beloved, at thy house, or atmine?" "I am a stranger here and have no place of reception savethe Khan, so by thy favour it shall be at thy house." "So be it.but this is Friday night and nothing can be done tilltomorrow after public prayers. go to the Mosque and pray. thenmount thine ass, and ask for the Habbaniyah quarter. and,when there, look out for the mansion of Al Nakib Barakat,popularly known as Abu Shamah the Syndic. for I live there: so donot delay as I shall be expecting thee." I rejoiced with stillgreater joy at this. and took leave of her and returned to myKhan, where I passed a sleepless night. Hardly was I assured thatmorning had dawned when I rose, changed my dress, perfumed myselfwith essences and sweet scents and, taking fifty dinars in akerchief, went from the Khan Masrur to the Zuwaylah gate,where I mounted an ass and said to its owner, "Take me to theHabbaniyah." So he set off with me and brought up in thetwinkling of an eye at a street known as Darb al Munkari, where Isaid to him, "Go in and ask for the Syndic's mansion." He wasabsent a while and then returned and said, "Alight." "Go thoubefore me to the house," quoth I, adding, "Come back with theearliest light and bring me home." and he answered, "In Allah'sname." whereupon I gave him a quarter dinar of gold, and he tookit and went his ways. Then I knocked at the door and out came twowhite slave girls, both young. high bosomed virgins, as they weremoons, and said to me, "Enter, for our mistress is expecting theeand she hath not slept the night long for her delight in thee." Ipassed through the vestibule into a saloon with seven doors,floored with parti coloured marbles and furnished with curtainsand hangings of coloured silks: the ceiling was cloisonne withgold and corniced with inscriptions emblazoned in lapislazuli. and the walls were stuccoed with Sultani gypsumwhich mirrored the beholder's face. Around the saloon werelatticed windows overlooking a garden full of all manner offruits. whose streams were railing and riffling and whose birdswere trilling and shrilling. and in the heart of the hall was ajetting fountain at whose corners stood birds fashioned in redgold crusted with pearls and gems and spouting water crystalclear. When I entered and took a seat. And Shahrazad perceivedthe dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.When it was the Twenty sixth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the youngmerchant continued, When I entered and took a seat, the lady atonce came in crowned with a diadem of pearls and jewels.her face dotted with artificial moles in indigo, hereyebrows pencilled with Kohl and her hands and feet reddened withHenna. When she saw me she smiled in my face and took me to herembrace and clasped me to her breast. then she put her mouth tomy mouth and sucked my tongue (and I did likewise) andsaid, "Can it be true, O my little darkling, thou art come tome?" adding, "Welcome and good cheer to thee! By Allah, from theday I saw thee sleep hath not been sweet to me nor hath food beenpleasant." Quoth I, "Such hath also been my case: and I am thyslave, thy negro slave." Then we sat down to converse and I hungmy head earthwards in bashfulness, but she delayed not long ereshe set before me a tray of the most exquisite viands, marinatedmeats, fritters soaked in bee's honeys and chickensstuffed with sugar and pistachio nuts, whereof we ate till wewere satisfied. Then they brought basin and ewer and I washed myhands and we scented ourselves with rose water musk'd and satdown again to converse. So she began repeating thesecouplets:"Had we wist of thy coming, thy way had been strewnWith the blood of our heart and the balls of our sight:Our cheek as a foot cloth to greet thee been thrown,That thy step on our eyelids should softly alight."And she kept plaining of what had befallen her and I of what hadbetided me. and love of her got so firm hold of my heart that allmy wealth seemed a thing of naught in comparison with her. Thenwe fell to toying and groping and kissing till night fall, whenthe handmaidens set before us meats and a complete wine service,and we sat carousing till the noon of night, when we lay down andI lay with her. never in my life saw I a night like that night.When morning morrowed I arose and took leave of her, throwingunder the carpet bed the kerchief wherein were the dinarsand as I went out she wept and said, "O my lord, when shall Ilook upon that lovely face again?" "I will be with thee atsunset," answered I, and going out found the donkey boy, who hadbrought me the day before, awaiting at the door. So I mounted assand rode to the Khan of Masrur where I alighted and gave the mana half dinar, saying, "Return at sunset." and he said "I will."Then I breakfasted and went out to seek the price of my stuffs.after which I returned, and taking a roast lamb and somesweetmeats, called a porter and put the provision in his crate,and sent it to the lady paying the man his hire. I wentback to my business till sunset, when the ass driver came to meand I took fifty dinars in a kerchief and rode to her house whereI found the marble floor swept, the brasses burnisht, the branchlights burning, the wax candles ready lighted, the meat served upand the wine strained. When my lady saw me she threw herarms about my neck, and cried, "Thou hast desolated me by thineabsence." Then she set the tables before me and we ate till wewere satisfied, when the slave girls carried off the trays andserved up wine. We gave not over drinking till half the night waspast. and, being well warmed with drink, we went to the sleepingchamber and lay there till morning. I then arose and fared forthfrom her leaving the fifty dinars with her as before. and,finding the donkey boy at the door, rode to the Khan and sleptawhile. After that I went out to make ready the evening meal andtook a brace of geese with gravy on two platters of dressed andpeppered rice, and got ready colocasia roots fried andsoaked in honey, and wax candles and fruits and conserves andnuts and almonds and sweet scented cowers. and I sent them all toher. As soon as it was night I again tied up fifty dinars in akerchief and, mounting the ass as usual, rode to the mansionwhere we ate and drank and lay together till morning when I threwthe kerchief and dinars to her and rode back to the Khan.I ceased not doing after that fashion till, after a sweet night,I woke one fine morning and found myself beggared, dinar less anddirhamless. So said I to myself "All this be Satan's work." andbegan to recite these couplets: "Poverty dims the sheen of man whate'er his wealth has been,E'en as the sun about to set shines with a yellowing lightAbsent he falls from memory, forgotten by his friends. Presenthe shareth not their joys for none in him delightHe walks the market shunned of all, too glad to hide his head,In desert places tears he sheds and moans his bitter plightBy Allah, 'mid his kith and kin a man, however good, Waylaidby want and penury is but a stranger wight!"I fared forth from the Khan and walked down "Between the Palaces"street till I came to the Zuwaylah Porte, where I found thepeople crowding and the gateway blocked for the much folk. And bythe decree of Destiny I saw there a trooper against whom Ipressed unintentionally, so that my hand came upon his bosompocket and I felt a purse inside it. I looked and seeing a stringof green silk hanging from the pocket knew it for a purse. andthe crush grew greater every minute and just then, a camel ladenwith a load of fuel happened to jostle the trooper on theopposite side, and he turned round to fend it off from him, lestit tear his clothes. and Satan tempted me, so I pulled the stringand drew out a little bag of blue silk, containing somethingwhich chinked like coin. But the soldier, feeling his pocketsuddenly lightened, put his hand to it and found it empty.whereupon he turned to me and, snatching up his mace from hissaddle bow, struck me with it on the head. I fell to the ground,whilst the people came round us and seizing the trooper's mare bythe bridle said to him, "Strikest thou this youth such a blow asthis for a mere push!" But the trooper cried out at them, "Thisfellow is an accursed thief!" Whereupon I came to myself andstood up, and the people looked at me and said, "Nay, he is acomely youth: he would not steal anything." and some of them tookmy part and others were against me and question and answer waxedloud and warm. The people pulled at me and would have rescued mefrom his clutches. but as fate decreed behold, the Governor, theChief of Police, and the watch entered the Zuwaylah Gateat this moment and, seeing the people gathered together around meand the soldier, the Governor asked, "What is the matter?" "ByAllah! O Emir," answered the trooper, "this is a thief! I had inmy pocket a purse of blue silk lined with twenty good gold piecesand he took it, whilst I was in the crush." Quoth the Governor,"Was any one by thee at the time?". and quoth the soldier, "No."Thereupon the Governor cried out to the Chief of Police whoseized me, and on this wise the curtain of the Lord's. protectionwas withdrawn from me. Then he said "Strip him." and, when theystripped me, they found the purse in my clothes. The Wali tookit, opened it and counted it. and, finding in it twenty dinars asthe soldier had said, waxed exceeding wroth and bade his guardbring me before him. Then said he to me, "Now, O youth, speaktruly: didst thou steal this purse?" At this I hung myhead to the ground and said to myself, "If I deny having stolenit, I shall get myself into terrible trouble." So I raised myhead and said, "Yes, I took it." When the Governor heard thesewords he wondered and summoned witnesses who came forward andattested my confession. All this happened at the Zuwaylah Gate.Then the Governor ordered the link bearer to cut off my righthand, and he did so. after which he would have struck off my leftfoot also. but the heart of the soldier softened and he took pityon me and interceded for me with the Governor that I should notbe slain. Thereupon the Wali left me, and went away andthe folk remained round me and gave me a cup of wine to drink. Asfor the trooper he pressed the purse upon me, and said, "Thou arta comely youth and it befitteth not thou be a thief." So Irepeated these verses: "I swear by Allah's name, fair sir! no thief was I, Nor, O thoubest of men! was I a bandit bred:But Fortune's change and chance o'erthrew me suddenly, Andcark and care and penury my course misled:I shot it not, indeed, 'twas Allah shot the shaft That rolledin dust the Kingly diadem from my head."The soldier turned away after giving me the purse. and I alsowent my ways having wrapped my hand in a piece of rag and thrustit into my bosom. My whole semblance had changed, and my colourhad waxed yellow from the shame and pain which had befallen me.Yet I went on to my mistress's house where, in extremeperturbation of spirit I threw myself down on the carpet bed. Shesaw me in this state and asked me, "What aileth thee and why do Isee thee so changed in looks?". and I answered, "My head painethme and I am far from well." Whereupon she was vexed and wasconcerned on my account and said, "Burn not my heart, O my lord,but sit up and raise thy head and recount to me what hathhappened to thee today, for thy face tells me a tale." "Leavethis talk," replied I. But she wept and said, "Me seems thou arttired of me, for I see thee contrary to thy wont." But I wassilent. and she kept on talking to me albeit I gave her noanswer, till night came on. Then she set food before me, but Irefused it fearing lest she see me eating with my left hand andsaid to her, "I have no stomach to eat at present." Quoth she,"Tell me what hath befallen thee to day, and why art thou sosorrowful and broken in spirit and heart?" Quoth I, "Wait awhile.I will tell thee all at my leisure." Then she brought me wine,saying, "Down with it, this will dispel thy grief: thou mustindeed drink and tell me of thy tidings." I asked her, "Perforcemust I tell thee?". and she answered, "Yes." Then said I, "If itneeds must be so, then give me to drink with thine own hand." Shefilled and drank, and filled again and gave me the cupwhich I took from her with my left hand and wiped the tears frommy eyelids and began repeating:"When Allah willeth aught befall a man Who hath of ears andeyes and wits full share:His ears He deafens and his eyes He blinds And draws his witse'en as we draw a hairTill, having wrought His purpose, He restores Man's wits, thatwarned more circumspect he fare."When I ended my verses I wept, and she cried out with anexceeding loud cry, "What is the cause of thy tears? Thou burnestmy heart! What makes thee take the cup with thy left hand?" QuothI, "Truly I have on my right hand a boil." and quoth she, "Put itout and I will open it for thee." "It is not yet time toopen it," I replied, "so worry me not with thy words, for I willnot take it out of the bandage at this hour." Then I drank offthe cup, and she gave not over plying me with drink untildrunkenness overcame me and I fell asleep in the place where Iwas sitting. whereupon she looked at my right hand and saw awrist without a fist. So she searched me closely and found withme the purse of gold and my severed hand wrapped up in the bit ofrag. With this such sorrow came upon her as neverovercame any and she ceased not lamenting on my account till themorning. When I awoke I found that she had dressed me a dish ofbroth of four boiled chickens, which she brought to me togetherwith a cup of wine. I ate and drank and laying down the purse,would have gone out. but she said to me, "Whither away?". and Ianswered, "Where my business calleth me." and said she, "Thoushalt not go: sit thee down." So I sat down and she resumed,"Hath thy love for me so overpowered thee that thou hast wastedall thy wealth and hast lost thine hand on my account? I takethee to witness against me and also Allah be my witness that Iwill never part with thee, but will die under thy feet. and soonthou shalt see that my words are true." Then she sent for theKazi and witnesses and said to them, "Write my contract ofmarriage with this young man, and bear ye witness that I havereceived the marriage settlement." When they had drawn upthe document she said, "Be witness that all my monies which arein this chest and all I have in slaves and handmaidens and otherproperty is given in free gift to this young man." So they tookact of this statement enabling me to assume possession in rightof marriage. and then withdrew, after receiving their fees.Thereupon she took me by the hand and, leading me to a closet,opened a large chest and said to me, "See what is herein." and Ilooked and behold, it was full of kerchiefs. Quoth she, "This isthe money I had from thee and every kerchief thou gavest me,containing fifty dinars, I wrapped up and cast into this chest.so now take thine own, for it returns to thee, and this day thouart become of high estate. Fortune and Fate afflicted thee sothat thou didst lose thy right hand for my sake. and I can neverrequite thee. nay, although I gave my life 'twere but little andI should still remain thy debtor." Then she added, "Take chargeof thy property.". so I transferred the contents of her chest tomy chest, and added my wealth to her wealth which I had givenher, and my heart was eased and my sorrow ceased. I stood up andkissed her and thanked her. and she said, "Thou hast given thyhand for love of me and how am I able to give thee an equivalent?By Allah, if I offered my life for thy love, it were indeed butlittle and would not do justice to thy claim upon me." Then shemade over to me by deed all that she possessed in clothes andornaments of gold and pearls, and goods and farms and chattels,and lay not down to sleep that night, being sorely grieved for mygrief, till I told her the whole of what had befallen me. Ipassed the night with her. But before we had lived together amonth's time she fell sorely sick and illness increased upon her,by reason of her grief for the loss of my hand, and she enduredbut fifty days before she was numbered among the folk of futurityand heirs of immortality. So I laid her out and buried her bodyin mother earth and let make a pious perfection of theKoran for the health of her soul, and gave much money inalms for her. after which I turned me from the grave and returnedto the house. There I found that she had left much substance inready money and slaves, mansions, lands and domains, and amongher store houses was a granary of sesame seed, whereof I soldpart to thee. and I had neither time nor inclination to takecount with thee till I had sold the rest of the stock in store.nor, indeed, even now have I made an end of receiving the price.So I desire thou baulk me not in what I am about to say to thee:twice have I eaten of thy food and I wish to give thee as apresent the monies for the sesame which are by thee. Such is thecause of the cutting off my right hand and my eating with myleft." "Indeed," said I, "thou hast shown me the utmost kindnessand liberality." Then he asked me, "Why shouldst thou not travelwith me to my native country whither I am about to return withCairene and Alexandrian stuffs? Say me, wilt thou accompany me?".and I answered "I will." So I agreed to go with him at the headof the month, and I sold all I had and bought other merchandise.then we set out and travelled, I and the young man, to thiscountry of yours, where he sold his venture and bought otherinvestment of country stuffs and continued his journey to EgyptBut it was my lot to abide here, so that these things befell mein my strangerhood which befell last night, and is not this tale,O King of the age, more wondrous and marvellous than the story ofthe Hunchback? "Not so," quoth the King, "I cannot accept it:there is no help for it but that you be hanged, every one ofyou." And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day, and ceased sayingher permitted say.When it was the Twenty seventh Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when theKing of China declared "There is no help for it but that you behanged," the Reeve of the Sultan's Kitchen came forward and said,"If thou permit me I will tell thee a tale of what befell me justbefore I found this Gobbo, and, if it be more wondrous than hisstory, do thou grant us our lives." And when the King answered"Yes" he began to recount