When Abraham was born, his father, Terah, who was one of the chiefofficers of King Nimrod, gave a banquet to a large number of hisfriends. He entertained them most sumptuously, and the merriest of theguests was the chief of the king's magicians. He was an old man,exceedingly fond of wine, and he drank deeply. The feast lastedthroughout the night, and the gray dawn of early morning appeared inthe sky before Terah's friends thought of rising from the table.Suddenly the old magician jumped to his feet."See," he cried, excitedly, pointing through the open door to the sky."See yon bright star in the east. It flashes across the heavens."The others looked, but said they could see nothing."Fools," shouted the old man, "ye may not see, but I do. I, the wisestof the king's magicians and astrologers, tell you it is an omen. Seehow the brilliant star darts across the sky! It has swallowed asmaller star, and another, even a third, yet a fourth. It is an omen,I say, a portent that bodes ill. And, moreover," he added, growingstill more excited, "it is an omen connected with the birth of thelittle son of Terah."(: "The big fellow here got angry, beat the othersand smashed them to bits." (_Page 95_).)"Nonsense," cried Terah."Talk not to me of nonsense," said the magician, sternly. "I musthasten to inform the king."Hurriedly he left the house of Terah, followed by the other magicians,some of whom now said they also had seen a star swallow four others.They did not think it wise to contradict their chief, although he haddrunk a great deal of wine and could not walk steadily.King Nimrod was awakened from his sleep, and his magicians appearedbefore him."O King, live for ever," said the chief, by way of salute. "Graveindeed is the news that has led us to disturb thee in thy slumbers.This night a son has been born unto thy officer, Terah, and with thecoming of the dawn a warning has appeared to us in the skies. I, thechief of thy magicians, did observe a brilliant star rise in the eastand dart across the heavens and swallow four smaller stars.""We observed it, too," said the other magicians."And what means this?" inquired the king."It means," said the chief magician, mysteriously, "that thisstar child will destroy other children, that his descendants willconquer thine. Take warning. Purchase this child from thy officer,Terah, and slay it so that it may not grow up a danger to thee.""Thy advice pleases me," said the cruel king.In vain Terah protested. King Nimrod would not disregard the warningof his magicians, but he consented to give Terah three days in whichto deliver up the child. Sad at heart Terah returned home, and on thesecond day told his wife the terrible news."We must not allow our little son, Abraham, to be slain," she said."If he is to become great he must live. I have a plan. King Nimrodwill not be satisfied unless a child is slain. Therefore, take thouthe child of a slave to him and tell him it is Abraham. He will notknow the difference. And so that the trick shall not be discovered,take our child away and hide it for a time."Terah thought this an excellent idea, and he carried it out. The sickchild of a slave, which was born only a few hours before Abraham, wastaken to King Nimrod who killed it with his own hands, and Terah'slittle boy was secretly carried by his nurse to a cave in a forest.There Abraham was carefully nurtured and brought up.From time to time Abraham was visited by his father and mother, andnot until he was ten years old did they think it safe to bring himfrom the cave in the forest to their home. Even then they deemed itbest to be careful. Their elder son, Haran, was a maker of idols andAbraham became his helper without Haran being told it was his brother.Abraham, the star child, was a strange little boy. He did not believein the idols."I worship the sun by day and the moon and the stars by night," hesaid to Haran."There are times when you cannot see the sun by day, nor the moon andstars by night," said Haran, "but you can always have your idol withyou."This troubled little Abraham for a while, but one day he came runningto his brother and said, "I have made a discovery. I shall no longerworship the sun, nor the moon, nor the stars. There must be somemighty power behind them that orders them to shine, the sun by day andthe moon and stars by night. That great power shall be my God."Abraham asked all sorts of queer questions of his father. "Who madethe sun and the moon and the stars?" he asked."I know not," replied Terah."I have asked all your idols, your gods, and they answer not," saidAbraham."They cannot speak," said Terah."Then why do you pray to them and worship them?" persisted the boy.Terah did not answer. Abraham asked his mother, but she could onlytell him that the gods who created everything were with them in thehouse."But Haran made those silly things of wood and clay," said Abraham,and at last they refused to answer his awkward questions.Mostly he stood at the door of the house, gazing at the sky as iftrying to read the secrets behind the sun and stars."Thou shouldst have been placed with an astrologer," said Haran to himone day. "Thou art a child of the stars."Terah heard this and was angry with Haran, for he feared that thesecret of the child's birth might be betrayed."I know not why my father keeps thee here," said Haran afterward toAbraham. "Thou art becoming lazy. I have worked enough this day andwill go out to the woods to watch the hunting. Stay thou here.Perchance a purchaser may come. Be heedful and obtain good payment forthe idols."Not long after Haran left, an old man entered the shop and said hewished to buy an idol."I dropped my idol on the ground yesterday and it broke," he said. "Imust have a stronger one.""Certainly thou must have a god so strong that naught can break it,"answered Abraham. "Tell me, how old art thou?""Full sixty years, boy," replied the man."And yet thou hast not reached years of wisdom," said Abraham. "Seehow easy it is to break thy gods," and he took a stick and smashed oneof the idols with a single blow.The old man fled from the shop horrified.Next, a woman entered."I am too poor to have an idol of my own," she said. "Therefore, Ihave brought a little food as an offering to one of the many godshere.""Offer it to any idol that pleases thee," said Abraham, with a laugh.The woman placed it before the smallest idol."This idol is small and surly," said the boy. "It does not accept thyoffering," and he raised his stick and smashed it."Try a bigger idol with thy offering," he said, and the woman did so."Thou also hast no manners," said Abraham, addressing the god. "eat,or I shall smash thee to pieces."The idol, of course, did not eat, and so Abraham broke it, and thewoman rushed out into the street in great alarm.Abraham tried all the idols in turn with the food, and as each wasunable to eat, he broke them all except the largest. Before this idol,which was as tall as a man, he paused. Then, laughing loudly, heplaced the stick which he had used in the idol's hand.By this time, a crowd, attracted by the cries of the old man and thewoman, had gathered at the door."What hast thou done?" they demanded, angrily."I? Nothing," answered Abraham. "See, the largest idol holds in itshand a big stick. It seems to me that he has been angry and has killedall the others. Ask him why he did this."The people stood bewildered until Terah and Haran returned."What is the meaning of this?" they asked, pointing to the brokenidols."Oh! Such fun," replied Abraham. "There has been a fight here. A womanbrought a food offering to the gods, and they quarrelled because theyall wanted it. So the big fellow here got angry, and, taking up thestick which you see he still holds, he beat the others and smashedthem to bits.""Absurd!" cried Haran. "The idols cannot do these things.""Ask the big fellow to strike me if I have told lies," returnedAbraham."Cease your nonsense," commanded his father."What funny gods yours are," said Abraham, musingly, standing beforethe big idol. "Do you think he will hit me if I smack his face?"Before anybody could stop him, he smacked the idol's face and thenknocked off its head with the stick.Some of the people ran off to the palace, and soon came an order fromKing Nimrod that the idol breaker should be brought before him.Abraham, Haran and Terah were seized by the guards and marched off tothe palace."Which of you broke the idols?" asked the king, angrily."I did, because they were rude and would not accept the offering,"said Abraham. "How can they be gods if they have no sense?""Not altogether a foolish remark," said Nimrod, smiling. "If idolsplease thee not, then worship fire which has the power to consume.""Fire itself can be quenched by water," replied Abraham."Then worship water," returned Nimrod."But water is absorbed by the clouds," said the boy."And clouds are blown by the wind," said Nimrod."Man can withstand the force of the wind," said Abraham."So he will talk all day long, this child of the stars," exclaimedHaran."Child of the stars!" said the chief magician. "Now I understand. Oking, this must be no other than the child of Terah against whom, athis birth, we warned your majesty. The message of the stars has cometrue. He has dared to destroy our gods. Soon he will destroy us.""Is this, in truth, the child of the stars?" asked Nimrod, of Terah,but the latter did not answer."It is in truth, your majesty," said Haran. "I have long suspectedit.""Then why didst thou not inform me?" exclaimed the king in a rage. "Iwill test this star child with the power of my god, fire. And thou,Haran, for thy neglect, must also suffer. Guards, let them be boundand cast into the furnace to which I pray daily. Terah, thou art theirfather. I can forgive thee. thou wilt suffer sufficiently in losingboth thy sons to my god."The fire was made so hot that the men who endeavored to cast Abrahamand Haran into the flames were caught and burned to death. Twelve menin all perished before Terah's sons were thrown into the furnace.Haran was burned to ashes at once, but to the surprise of the vastcrowd that stood at a safe distance, Abraham walked unharmed in theflames, the fetters which bound him having been consumed.When King Nimrod saw this, he trembled."Come forth, boy," he cried to Abraham, "and I will pardon thee.""Bid your men take me out," he answered.All who approached the terrific fire, however, were burned to death,and at last when Nimrod said he would bow down before Abraham's Godthe boy came forth unharmed.All the people bowed down before the boy who told them to rise,saying, "Worship not me, but the true God who dwells in Heaven beyondthe sun and the stars and whose glory is everywhere."King Nimrod loaded the boy with presents and bade him return home inpeace.