There was once a poor man who lived in the fertile glen of Aherlow, atthe foot of the gloomy Galtee mountains, and he had a great hump on hisback. he looked just as if his body had been rolled up and placed uponhis shoulders. and his head was pressed down with the weight so muchthat his chin, when he was sitting, used to rest upon his knees forsupport. The country people were rather shy of meeting him in anylonesome place, for though, poor creature, he was as harmless and asinoffensive as a new born infant, yet his deformity was so great that hescarcely appeared to be a human creature, and some ill minded personshad set strange stories about him afloat. He was said to have a greatknowledge of herbs and charms. but certain it was that he had a mightyskilful hand in plaiting straws and rushes into hats and baskets, whichwas the way he made his livelihood.Lusmore, for that was the nickname put upon him, by reason of hisalways wearing a sprig of the fairy cap, or lusmore (the foxglove), inhis little straw hat, would ever get a higher penny for his plaited workthan anyone else, and perhaps that was the reason why someone, out ofenvy, had circulated the strange stories about him. Be that as it may,it happened that he was returning one evening from the pretty town ofCahir towards Cappagh, and as little Lusmore walked very slowly, onaccount of the great hump upon his back, it was quite dark when he cameto the old moat of Knockgrafton, which stood on the right hand side ofthe road. Tired and weary was he, and no ways comfortable in his ownmind at thinking how much farther he had to travel, and that he shouldbe walking all the night. so he sat down under the moat to rest himself,and began looking mournfully enough upon the moon, which Rising in clouded majesty at lengthApparent Queen, unveil'd her peerless light,And o'er the dark her silver mantle threw.Presently there arose a wild strain of unearthly melody upon the ear oflittle Lusmore. He listened, and he thought that he had never heard suchravishing music before. It was like the sound of many voices, eachmingling and blending with the others so strangely that they seemed tobe one, though all singing different strains, and the words of the songswere these:Da Luan, Da Mort, Da Luan, Da Mort, Da Luan, Da Mort,Da Luan, Da Mort.when there would be a moment's pause, and then the round of melody wenton again.Lusmore listened attentively, scarcely drawing his breath, lest hemight lose the slightest note. He now plainly perceived that the singingwas within the moat. and though at first it had charmed him much, hebegan to get tired of hearing the same round sung over and over so oftenwithout any change. so, availing himself of the pause when Da Luan, DaMort, had been sung three times, he took up the tune, and raised it withthe words augus Da Dardeen, and then went on singing with the voicesinside of the moat, Da Luan, Da Mort, finishing the melody, when thepause came again, with augus Da Dardeen.The fairies within Knockgrafton, for the song was a fairy melody, whenthey heard this addition to the tune, were so much delighted that withinstant resolve it was determined to bring the mortal among them whosemusical skill so far exceeded theirs, and little Lusmore was conveyedinto their company with the eddying speed of a whirlwind.Glorious to behold was the sight that burst upon him as he came downthrough the moat, twirling round and round, with the lightness of astraw, to the sweetest music, that kept time to his motion. The greatesthonour was then paid him, for he was put above all the musicians, and hehad servants tending upon him and everything to his heart's content, anda hearty welcome to all. and, in short, he was made as much of as if hehad been the first man in the land.Presently Lusmore saw a great consultation going on among the fairies,and, notwithstanding all their civility, he felt very much frightened,until one, stepping out from the rest, came up to him and said:Lusmore! Lusmore!Doubt not, nor deplore,For the hump which you boreOn your back is no more.Look down on the floor,And view it, Lusmore!When these words were said, poor little Lusmore felt himself so lightand so happy that he thought he could have bounded at one jump over themoon, like the cow in the history of the cat and the fiddle. and he saw,with inexpressible pleasure, his hump tumble down upon the ground fromhis shoulders. He then tried to lift up his head, and did so withbecoming caution, fearing that he might knock it against the ceiling ofthe great hall where he was. He looked round and round again with thegreatest wonder and delight upon everything, which appeared more andmore beautiful. and, overpowered at beholding such a resplendent scene,his head grew dizzy and his eyesight grew dim. At last he fell into asound sleep, and when he awoke he found that it was broad daylight, thesun shining brightly, and the birds singing sweetly, and that he waslying just at the foot of Knockgrafton, with the cows and sheep grazingpeaceably about him. The first thing Lusmore did, after saying hisprayers, was to put his hand behind to feel for his hump, but no sign ofone was there on his back, and he looked at himself with great pride,for he had now become a well shaped, dapper little fellow, and, morethan that, found himself in a full suit of new clothes, which heconcluded the fairies had made for him.Towards Cappagh he went, stepping out as lightly and springing up atevery step as if he had been all his life a dancing master. Not acreature who met Lusmore knew him without his hump, and he had a greatwork to persuade everyone that he was the same man in truth he was notas far as the outward appearance went.Of course it was not long before the story of Lusmore's hump got about,and a great wonder was made of it. Through the country for miles roundit was the talk of everyone, high and low.One morning, as Lusmore was sitting, contented enough, at his cabindoor, up came an old woman to him, and asked him if he could direct herto Cappagh."I need give you no directions, my good woman," said Lusmore, "for thisis Cappagh. And whom may you want here?""I have come," said the woman, "out of Decies country, in the county ofWaterford, looking after one Lusmore, who, I have heard tell, had hishump taken off by the fairies. for there is a son of a gossip of minewho has got a hump on him that will be his death. and, maybe, if hecould use the same charm as Lusmore the hump may be taken off him. Andnow I have told you the reason of my coming so far. 'tis to find outabout this charm if I can."Lusmore, who was ever a good natured little fellow, told the woman allthe particulars, how he had raised the tune for the fairies atKnockgrafton, how his hump had been removed from his shoulders, and howhe had got a new suit of clothes into the bargain.The woman thanked him very much and then went away, quite happy andeasy in her own mind. When she came back to her gossip's house, in thecounty of Waterford, she told her everything that Lusmore had said, andthey put the little hump backed man, who was a peevish and cunningcreature from his birth, upon a car, and took him all the way across thecountry. It was a long journey, but they did not care for that, so thehump was taken from off him. so they brought him just at nightfall, andleft him under the old moat of Knockgrafton.Jack Madden, for that was the humpy man's name, had not been sittingthere long when he heard the tune going on within the moat much sweeterthan before. for the fairies were singing it the way Lusmore had settledtheir music for them, and the song was going on, Da Luan, Da Mort, DaLuan, Da Mort, Da Luan, Da Mort, augus Da Dardeen, without everstopping. Jack Madden, who was in a great hurry to get quit of his hump,never thought of waiting till the fairies had done, or watching for afit opportunity to raise the tune higher than Lusmore had. so, havingheard them sing it over seven times without stopping, out he bawls,never minding the time or the humour of the tune, or how he could bringhis words in properly, augus Da Dardeen, augus Da Hena, thinking that ifone day was good two were better, and that, if Lusmore had one suit ofclothes given him, he should have two.No sooner had the words passed his lips than he was taken up and whiskedinto the moat with prodigious force, and the fairies came crowding roundabout him with great anger, screeching and screaming, and roaring out,"Who spoiled our tune? Who spoiled our tune?" And one stepped up to himabove all the rest and said:Jack Madden! Jack Madden!Your words came so bad inThe tune we felt glad in. This castle you're had in,That your life we may sadden.Here's two humps for Jack Madden!And twenty of the strongest fairies brought Lusmore's hump and put itdown upon poor Jack's back, over his own, where it became fixed asfirmly as if it was nailed on with twelvepenny nails by the bestcarpenter that ever drove one. Out of their castle they then kicked him.and in the morning, when Jack Madden's mother and her gossip came tolook after their little man, they found him half dead, lying at the footof the moat, with the other hump upon his back. Well, to be sure, howthey did look at each other, but they were afraid to say anything lest ahump might be put upon their shoulders. Home they brought the unluckyJack Madden with them, as downcast in their hearts and their looks asever two gossips were. and what through the weight of his other hump andthe long journey he died soon after, leaving, they say, his heavy curseto anyone who would go to listen to fairy tunes again.T. CROFTON CROKER.