(5) 'Prinz Krebs,' from Griechische Mahrchen. Schmidt.Once upon a time there was a fisherman who had a wife and threechildren. Every morning he used to go out fishing, and whatever fish hecaught he sold to the King. One day, among the other fishes, he caughta golden crab. When he came home he put all the fishes together intoa great dish, but he kept the Crab separate because it shone sobeautifully, and placed it upon a high shelf in the cupboard. Now whilethe old woman, his wife, was cleaning the fish, and had tucked up hergown so that her feet were visible, she suddenly heard a voice, whichsaid:'Let down, let down thy petticoatThat lets thy feet be seen.'She turned round in surprise, and then she saw the little creature, theGolden Crab.'What! You can speak, can you, you ridiculous crab?' she said, for shewas not quite pleased at the Crab's remarks. Then she took him up andplaced him on a dish.When her husband came home and they sat down to dinner, they presentlyheard the Crab's little voice saying, 'Give me some too.' They were allvery much surprised, but they gave him something to eat. When the oldman came to take away the plate which had contained the Crab's dinner,he found it full of gold, and as the same thing happened every day hesoon became very fond of the Crab.One day the Crab said to the fisherman's wife, 'Go to the King and tellhim I wish to marry his younger daughter.'The old woman went accordingly, and laid the matter before the King, wholaughed a little at the notion of his daughter marrying a crab, but didnot decline the proposal altogether, because he was a prudent monarch,and knew that the Crab was likely to be a prince in disguise. He said,therefore, to the fisherman's wife, 'Go, old woman, and tell the Crab Iwill give him my daughter if by to morrow morning he can build a wall infront of my castle much higher than my tower, upon which all the flowersof the world must grow and bloom.'The fisherman's wife went home and gave this message.Then the Crab gave her a golden rod, and said, 'Go and strike with thisrod three times upon the ground on the place which the King showed you,and to morrow morning the wall will be there.'The old woman did so and went away again.The next morning, when the King awoke, what do you think he saw? Thewall stood there before his eyes, exactly as he had bespoken it!Then the old woman went back to the King and said to him, 'YourMajesty's orders have been fulfilled.''That is all very well,' said the King, 'but I cannot give away mydaughter until there stands in front of my palace a garden in whichthere are three fountains, of which the first must play gold, the seconddiamonds, and the third brilliants.'So the old woman had to strike again three times upon the ground withthe rod, and the next morning the garden was there. The King now gavehis consent, and the wedding was fixed for the very next day.Then the Crab said to the old fisherman, 'Now take this rod. go andknock with it on a certain mountain. then a black man(6) will come outand ask you what you wish for. Answer him thus: ''Your master, the King,has sent me to tell you that you must send him his golden garment thatis like the sun.'' Make him give you, besides, the queenly robes of goldand precious stones which are like the flowery meadows, and bring themboth to me. And bring me also the golden cushion.'(6) Ein Mohr.The old man went and did his errand. When he had brought the preciousrobes, the Crab put on the golden garment and then crept upon the goldencushion, and in this way the fisherman carried him to the castle, wherethe Crab presented the other garment to his bride. Now the ceremonytook place, and when the married pair were alone together the Crab madehimself known to his young wife, and told her how he was the son of thegreatest king in the world, and how he was enchanted, so that he becamea crab by day and was a man only at night. and he could also changehimself into an eagle as often as he wished. No sooner had he said thisthan he shook himself, and immediately became a handsome youth, but thenext morning he was forced to creep back again into his crab shell. Andthe same thing happened every day. But the Princess's affection for theCrab, and the polite attention with which she behaved to him, surprisedthe royal family very much. They suspected some secret, but though theyspied and spied, they could not discover it. Thus a year passed away,and the Princess had a son, whom she called Benjamin. But her motherstill thought the whole matter very strange. At last she said to theKing that he ought to ask his daughter whether she would not like tohave another husband instead of the Crab? But when the daughter wasquestioned she only answered:'I am married to the Crab, and him only will I have.'Then the King said to her, 'I will appoint a tournament in your honour,and I will invite all the princes in the world to it, and if any one ofthem pleases you, you shall marry him.'In the evening the Princess told this to the Crab, who said to her,'Take this rod, go to the garden gate and knock with it, then a blackman will come out and say to you, ''Why have you called me, and what doyou require of me?'' Answer him thus: 'Your master the King has sent mehither to tell you to send him his golden armour and his steed and thesilver apple.'' And bring them to me.'The Princess did so, and brought him what he desired.The following evening the Prince dressed himself for the tournament.Before he went he said to his wife, 'Now mind you do not say when yousee me that I am the Crab. For if you do this evil will come of it.Place yourself at the window with your sisters. I will ride by and throwyou the silver apple. Take it in your hand, but if they ask you who Iam, say that you do not know.' So saying, he kissed her, repeated hiswarning once more, and went away.The Princess went with her sisters to the window and looked on at thetournament. Presently her husband rode by and threw the apple up to her.She caught it in her hand and went with it to her room, and by and byher husband came back to her. But her father was much surprised that shedid not seem to care about any of the Princes. he therefore appointed asecond tournament.The Crab then gave his wife the same directions as before, only thistime the apple which she received from the black man was of gold. Butbefore the Prince went to the tournament he said to his wife, 'Now Iknow you will betray me to day.'But she swore to him that she would not tell who he was. He thenrepeated his warning and went away.In the evening, while the Princess, with her mother and sisters, wasstanding at the window, the Prince suddenly galloped past on his steedand threw her the golden apple.Then her mother flew into a passion, gave her a box on the ear, andcried out, 'Does not even that prince please you, you fool?'The Princess in her fright exclaimed, 'That is the Crab himself!'Her mother was still more angry because she had not been told sooner,ran into her daughter's room where the crab shell was still lying, tookit up and threw it into the fire. Then the poor Princess cried bitterly,but it was of no use. her husband did not come back.Now we must leave the Princess and turn to the other persons in thestory. One day an old man went to a stream to dip in a crust of breadwhich he was going to eat, when a dog came out of the water, snatchedthe bread from his hand, and ran away. The old man ran after him,but the dog reached a door, pushed it open, and ran in, the old manfollowing him. He did not overtake the dog, but found himself above astaircase, which he descended. Then he saw before him a stately palace,and, entering, he found in a large hall a table set for twelve persons.He hid himself in the hall behind a great picture, that he might seewhat would happen. At noon he heard a great noise, so that he trembledwith fear. When he took courage to look out from behind the picture,he saw twelve eagles flying in. At this sight his fear became stillgreater. The eagles flew to the basin of a fountain that was there andbathed themselves, when suddenly they were changed into twelve handsomeyouths. Now they seated themselves at the table, and one of them tookup a goblet filled with wine, and said, 'A health to my father!' Andanother said, 'A health to my mother!' and so the healths went round.Then one of them said:'A health to my dearest lady,Long may she live and well!But a curse on the cruel motherThat burnt my golden shell!'And so saying he wept bitterly. Then the youths rose from the table,went back to the great stone fountain, turned themselves into eaglesagain, and flew away.Then the old man went away too, returned to the light of day, and wenthome. Soon after he heard that the Princess was ill, and that the onlything that did her good was having stories told to her. He thereforewent to the royal castle, obtained an audience of the Princess, and toldher about the strange things he had seen in the underground palace. Nosooner had he finished than the Princess asked him whether he could findthe way to that palace.'Yes,' he answered, 'certainly.'And now she desired him to guide her thither at once. The old man didso, and when they came to the palace he hid her behind the great pictureand advised her to keep quite still, and he placed himself behindthe picture also. Presently the eagles came flying in, and changedthemselves into young men, and in a moment the Princess recognised herhusband amongst them all, and tried to come out of her hiding place. butthe old man held her back. The youths seated themselves at the table.and now the Prince said again, while he took up the cup of wine:'A health to my dearest lady,Long may she live and well!But a curse on the cruel motherThat burnt my golden shell!'Then the Princess could restrain herself no longer, but ran forward andthrew her arms round her husband. And immediately he knew her again, andsaid:'Do you remember how I told you that day that you would betray me?Now you see that I spoke the truth. But all that bad time is past. Nowlisten to me: I must still remain enchanted for three months. Will youstay here with me till that time is over?'So the Princess stayed with him, and said to the old man, 'Go back tothe castle and tell my parents that I am staying here.'Her parents were very much vexed when the old man came back and toldthem this, but as soon as the three months of the Prince's enchantmentwere over, he ceased to be an eagle and became once more a man, and theyreturned home together. And then they lived happily, and we who hear thestory are happier still.