Folk Tales and Fairy Lore in Gaelic andEnglishThe red haired tailor lived in Rannoch. Like the rest of his kind, hewent from house to house to make clothes of the cloth which thrifty wivesmanufactured for their husbands and sons in by gone times.Once as he was approaching a house, where he had a few days' work to do,evening came on, and he saw, in the dimness of the twilight, one like avery little child, running before him and keeping out of sight behindevery bush and every hillock at the road side. The tailor hardened hisstep, hoping to overtake the curious manikin before him, but instead ofgaining, he was losing ground at every step he took. As soon as henoticed this, he began to run with all his might. but in spite of hisskin, he could not shorten the distance between them.At length he lost patience so completely that he threw his big shears atthe nimble little man ahead, and struck him with them in the kneejoints. The fairy, for such he was, fell on his face, and before he hadtime to rise up, was in the tailor's arms, and the shears on his breast."Tell me where thou art going, my good lad," said the tailor."I am on my way from the Big Fairy Knoll, to the house ahead of thee, toget a while of the breast of the wife," replied the little imp. This wasthe very house to which the tailor was going."And what wilt thou do with the woman's own child?" said he then."Oh, I will put him out at the back window to my people, and they willtake him with them to our place," answered the other."And will they send him home when thou hast had enough of his mother'sbreast?""Oh, no. never!""That will do," said the tailor, and he let hisprisoner go.As soon as he got his liberty, he stretched away to the house, and waswithin before the tailor arrived. He had the house to himself, for thegoodman and his wife were in the byre milking the cows, and no one withinbut the child in the cradle. He lifted the child in his arms, and handedit out at the back window to the other fairies, as he thought. but thetailor was before them, and took the child quietly in his arms, and thenwent away with it to the house of his sister, who lived a short distanceoff, and left it in her charge.When he returned he found the wife before him, and the changeling in thecradle, ready to burst with crying. The wife took him up, and gave him adrink, and then put him back in the cradle again.He was not long there till he began to scream and cry once more. Shetook him up, and gave him another drink. But to all appearance nothingwould please him but to be left always on the breast.This game went on for a few days more. But when the patience of thetailor ran out, he sprang at last from the work table, took in a creelfulof peats, and put a big fire on the hearth. When the fire was in theheat of its burning, he sprang over to the cradle, took with him thechangeling, and before any one in the house could interpose, he threw himin the very middle of the flames. But the little knave leaped outthrough the chimney, and from the house top cried in triumph to thewife: "I have got so much of the sap of thy breast in spite of thee,"and he departed.