In a certain village there once lived two peasants, who, being very poor, and having no means of earning a livelihood, sold the little possessions they had, and left their village in the hope of finding better fortune elsewhere.At the outset, one of them said to his companion: "Friend, if you provide out of your own purse for both of us, I will do likewise when your money is over."The other readily agreed to this proposal, and from thenceforth when he cooked his meals he always gave his friend half of it.The peasant who first began to spend soon exhausted his little stock of money, and when the other had prepared his meals, he coolly began to eat it without inviting his companion to join him. Surprised at this proceeding he inquired why his share was not given him."You were a fool to spend for both of us," replied the other. "I am not going to imitate you, and waste my moneyon you."The poor peasant had to starve that day, and for three days more, until he could bear it no longer. When his companion had cooked his rice as usual, he begged so hard for some, that at length he was promised a spoonful, if only he should allow one of his eyes to be plucked out. He was in such an extremity of hunger that he agreed to this condition. A spoonful of rice was then given him, and with the handle of the same spoon which conveyed the rice to his leaf one of his eyes was pierced through.The rice that he had then obtained helped to keep him up for another three days. At the end of that time he was again so hungry that he could not but beg for another spoonful, which he received on the same condition as before.Being now blind of both eyes, he was looked upon by his friend as a useless encumbrance, and he therefore determined to get rid of him. He thought he could do this by walking away as fast as he could, but the blind man was not to be got rid of so easily. Listening attentively to his treacherous companion's footsteps, he managed to grope his way in the direction in which the other went. As they were passing through a deep forest, the wicked peasant took his helpless companion, and, after binding him firmly, left him under a tree to the tender mercies of the wild beasts, and went his way.The blind man had not been very long under the tree, when he overheard the conversation of some Raksasas , who were resting on the tree at the time.One of them said: "All are not aware of the rare qualities of this tree. Any blind man will have his sight restored to him, if he will only rub his eyes with a little of the juice of this tree.""That is not all," said another, "if a man should eat one of these leaves, he would not be hungry for seven days and seven nights.""More than that," said the third, "if a man eat the fruit that grows on the summit of this tree, he will become a king within seven days."When the Raksasas had gone away the man raised himself with difficulty, and contrived to injure the bark of the tree, and thus obtained a little of its juice, which he at once applied to his eyes, and he immediately recovered his sight. His next care was to free himself, and to eat one of the leaves of the tree. When he had eaten the leaf, he felt quite strong and able to climb the tree, which he did, and ate the fruit that was on its summit with the firm conviction that he would become a king within seven days. He set off, and wandering about reached a town on the seventh day, and during all that time he did not once feel the pangs of hunger.He arrived at the city tired and dusty and entered an ambalama (rest house), but it had already been occupied by some men, who, not caring to have in their company so dirty and ragged a man, drove him out. Being quite exhausted he sat down outside the ambalama .(To make the story plain it is necessary to mention that amongst most of the eastern nations, when a king died, the choice of his successor lay wholly with the elephant on which the deceased king was accustomed to ride. The animal was decked in all its splendid coverings, and led along the streets of the town, and before whomsoever the elephant knelt that fortunate individual was chosen king.)Now it happened that the king of that country had just died, and the royal elephant was led along the streets to select its next rider. Seeing our friend, the peasant, outside the ambalama , the elephant at once knelt down before him. and he was crowned king.The treacherous friend of the new king had already arrived in the same city and married the daughter of the king's prime minister.One day the prime minister was called away to some distant country, and as he expected to be away for some days, he appointed his son in law to act for him. No sooner did the acting prime minister see the new king than he was struck with the resemblance he bore to his quondam companion.But he reassured himself that it could not be he, for, thought he, "how could a blind man regain his sight?"But the more he saw of the new king the more uneasy he began to be. At length he became quite anxious to ascertain whether this was his old friend or not. Fearing to ask the king a direct question, he sat to work in a roundabout way to get at the truth.In the prime minister the king at once recognised his base friend, but he betrayed no signs whatever of recognition.One day the prime minister said to the king, "Sire! is it possible for a blind man by any means in the world to regain his sight?"The king answered: "It is not an impossibility. If a man only sought it he would find a remedy even for blindness."The acting prime minister was now quite convinced that the king was his former companion. His ambition was roused, for, thought he, "If this man, whom I had left so helpless in the forest had become a king, why should I not be able to do the same? If only I could get some one to treat me as I treated my companion, then the result must be the same."Thus deluding himself, he set out from the city with his wife, having instructed her how to act.First the man provided food for both, and and when his stock of money was over his wife treated him in the same way he had treated his friend, and finally left him firmly bound under a tree. Before parting she told him where he would find her when he became king.The woman went on till she came to a shepherd's hut. The shepherd's wife was alone at home, and the future king's wife explained to her their prospects and obtained leave to stay with her for seven days, when, she said, her husband, the king, would come to fetch her.In the evening when the shepherd's wife saw her husband coming home, she ran up to him and told him: "We have a royal guest under our roof, and it is not becoming that you should go into her presence in that state. Go, wash yourself and put on clean clothes before you enter into her presence."She then explained to him how in seven days the king was expected.Seven days elapsed but there was no sign of the coming king, and the shepherd began to doubt the woman's tale. Another seven days, and he lost all patience. At last he got the true story from the woman, how she had left her husband blinded and bound under a tree in a thick jungle. The shepherd repaired to the spot to find out what had really happened to the man. When he reached the place he found the unfortunate man's carcass surrounded by eagles and other ravenous birds and animals.When the shepherd returned home, the would be queen eagerly questioned him as to the fate of her husband, and asked him whether he had indeed been crowned king."Oh, yes," replied the man, "I found him surrounded by so many of his subjects that I could not exchange one word with him, and tell him of your welfare, but now you can go and see for yourself."So saying he drove her out of his house as an adventuress.