Belonging to the lordly manor house was beautiful, well keptgarden, with rare trees and flowers. the guests of the proprietordeclared their admiration of it. the people of the neighborhood,from town and country, came on Sundays and holidays, and askedpermission to see the garden. indeed, whole schools used to pay visitsto it.Outside the garden, by the palings at the road side, stood a greatmighty Thistle, which spread out in many directions from the root,so that it might have been called a thistle bush. Nobody looked at it,except the old Ass which drew the milk maid's cart. This Ass used tostretch out his neck towards the Thistle, and say, "You are beautiful.I should like to eat you!" But his halter was not long enough to lethim reach it and eat it.There was great company at the manor house some very noble peoplefrom the capital. young pretty girls, and among them a young ladywho came from a long distance. She had come from Scotland, and wasof high birth, and was rich in land and in gold a bride worthwinning, said more than one of the young gentlemen. and their ladymothers said the same thing.The young people amused themselves on the lawn, and played atball. they wandered among the flowers, and each of the young girlsbroke off a flower, and fastened it in a young gentleman's buttonhole.But the young Scotch lady looked round, for a long time, in anundecided way. None of the flowers seemed to suit her taste. Thenher eye glanced across the paling outside stood the great thistlebush, with the reddish blue, sturdy flowers. she saw them, she smiled,and asked the son of the house to pluck one for her."It is the flower of Scotland," she said. "It blooms in thescutcheon of my country. Give me yonder flower."And he brought the fairest blossom, and pricked his fingers ascompletely as if it had grown on the sharpest rose bush.She placed the thistle flower in the buttonhole of the youngman, and he felt himself highly honored. Each of the other younggentlemen would willingly have given his own beautiful flower tohave worn this one, presented by the fair hand of the Scottish maiden.And if the son of the house felt himself honored, what were thefeelings of the Thistle bush? It seemed to him as if dew andsunshine were streaming through him."I am something more than I knew of," said the Thistle toitself. "I suppose my right place is really inside the palings, andnot outside. One is often strangely placed in this world. but now Ihave at least managed to get one of my people within the pale, andindeed into a buttonhole!"The Thistle told this event to every blossom that unfolded itself,and not many days had gone by before the Thistle heard, not frommen, not from the twittering of the birds, but from the air itself,which stores up the sounds, and carries them far around out of themost retired walks of the garden, and out of the rooms of the house,in which doors and windows stood open, that the young gentleman whohad received the thistle flower from the hand of the fair Scottishmaiden had also now received the heart and hand of the lady inquestion. They were a handsome pair it was a good match."That match I made up!" said the Thistle. and he thought of theflower he had given for the buttonhole. Every flower that opened heardof this occurrence."I shall certainly be transplanted into the garden," thought theThistle, "and perhaps put into a pot, which crowds one in. That is saidto be the greatest of all honors."And the Thistle pictured this to himself in such a livelymanner, that at last he said, with full conviction, "I am to betransplanted into a pot."Then he promised every little thistle flower which unfolded itselfthat it also should be put into a pot, and perhaps into abuttonhole, the highest honor that could be attained. But not one ofthem was put into a pot, much less into a buttonhole. They drank inthe sunlight and the air. lived on the sunlight by day, and on the dewby night. bloomed were visited by bees and hornets, who lookedafter the honey, the dowry of the flower, and they took the honey, andleft the flower where it was."The thievish rabble!" said the Thistle. "If I could only stabevery one of them! But I cannot."The flowers hung their heads and faded. but after a time newones came."You come in good time," said the Thistle. "I am expecting everymoment to get across the fence."A few innocent daisies, and a long thin dandelion, stood andlistened in deep admiration, and believed everything they heard.The old Ass of the milk cart stood at the edge of thefield road, and glanced across at the blooming thistle bush. but hishalter was too short, and he could not reach it.And the Thistle thought so long of the thistle of Scotland, towhose family he said he belonged, that he fancied at last that hehad come from Scotland, and that his parents had been put into thenational escutcheon. That was a great thought. but, you see, a greatthistle has a right to a great thought."One is often of so grand a family, that one may not know it,"said the Nettle, who grew close by. He had a kind of idea that hemight be made into cambric if he were rightly treated.And the summer went by, and the autumn went by. The leaves fellfrom the trees, and the few flowers left had deeper colors and lessscent. The gardener's boy sang in the garden, across the palings:"Up the hill, down the dale we wend,That is life, from beginning to end."The young fir trees in the forest began to long for Christmas, butit was a long time to Christmas yet."Here I am standing yet!" said the Thistle. "It is as if nobodythought of me, and yet I managed the match. They were betrothed, andthey have had their wedding. it is now a week ago. I won't take asingle step because I can't."A few more weeks went by. The Thistle stood there with his lastsingle flower large and full. This flower had shot up from near theroots. the wind blew cold over it, and the colors vanished, and theflower grew in size, and looked like a silvered sunflower.One day the young pair, now man and wife, came into the garden.They went along by the paling, and the young wife looked across it."There's the great thistle still growing," she said. "It has noflowers now.""Oh, yes, the ghost of the last one is there still," said he.And he pointed to the silvery remains of the flower, which looked likea flower themselves."It is pretty, certainly," she said. "Such an one must be carvedon the frame of our picture."And the young man had to climb across the palings again, and tobreak off the calyx of the thistle. It pricked his fingers, but thenhe had called it a ghost. And this thistle calyx came into the garden,and into the house, and into the drawing room. There stood apicture "Young Couple." A thistle flower was painted in thebuttonhole of the bridegroom. They spoke about this, and also aboutthe thistle flower they brought, the last thistle flower, now gleaminglike silver, whose picture was carved on the frame.And the breeze carried what was spoken away, far away."What one can experience!" said the Thistle Bush. "My first bornwas put into a buttonhole, and my youngest has been put in a frame.Where shall I go?"And the Ass stood by the road side, and looked across at theThistle."Come to me, my nibble darling!" said he. "I can't get across toyou."But the Thistle did not answer. He became more and morethoughtful kept on thinking and thinking till near Christmas, andthen a flower of thought came forth."If the children are only good, the parents do not mind standingoutside the garden pale.""That's an honorable thought," said the Sunbeam. "You shall alsohave a good place.""In a pot or in a frame?" asked the Thistle."In a story," replied the Sunbeam.