Once upon a time there was a shoemaker who doted on pancakes. One dayhe asked his wife to bake him some for dinner. She replied that she waswilling enough, but there was no pan in the house, and if he wished forpancakes, he had better go and borrow one from the neighbor. He complied,and at dinner he ate as rapidly as his wife could bake. When they hadfinished their meal, the shoemaker told his wife to carry the pan back toits owner. She refused, however, and declared that she did not like tocarry back borrowed articles. As he insisted, they nearly came to blows,but finally they agreed to go to work, and the one who spoke first shouldreturn the pan to its owner.The shoemaker seated himself on his platform, sewing and handling hisshoes and his leather. His wife took her seat by her spinning wheel, andsoon they were working as if life depended upon their handiness. Neitheruttered a sound.In a short time a squire who lived in the neighborhood, and who hadgiven a pair of shoes to the shoemaker to repair, passed the house, bidhis coachman stop, and sent his servant in, asking him to see whether hisshoes were finished.The servant walked in, greeted, and delivered his errand."Whew, whe ew, whe e e e e e ew!" whistled the shoemaker, who sat onhis three legged chair, battling with the air, and sewing diligently.As the servant could not draw a single word from him by way of answer,he turned to the woman, whose spinning wheel went so rapidly that sparksflew from it. "How is it," asked he, "that your husband does not answerwhen I talk to him?""Tralalalide lide raderade lidelidelidelidelide ralala!" sang the womanat the top of her voice, spinning with all her might and looking straightinto his face.The servant saw that there was nothing for him to do but return to hismaster in the carriage. The two people must have lost their senses!When he reached the carriage, the squire asked him if the shoes werefinished."I don't know," replied he. "The shoemaker and his wife must have losttheir senses. The man whistles and the woman sings, and those are all thesounds they utter. They would not say as much as one plain word."The squire alighted to see what had happened to the persons within. "Ifthey pretend to make fun of their customers, I shall teach them manners,"said he to himself. "Here they are, and here I come." So he opened thedoor and walked in.The shoemaker whistled with all his might as soon as the squire openedhis mouth to speak. The woman sang and shouted with all her might. butneither of them seemed to notice his question as to the shoes. At lengthhe became vexed, seized his riding whip, and lifted it over the woman'sshoulders. The shoemaker stole a glance at them, but said nothing.A minute later the whip was dancing lustily across the shoulder bladesof the woman, who at once struck up a new tune, but less merry thanbefore. But this was too much for the shoemaker. He jumped from his seat,rushed at the squire, and bid him stop."Ah," exclaimed the squire. "You are not mute. I am pleased to knowthat your voice is in as good working order as your fingers seem to be.""You spoke first," cried the woman to her husband, "and you must carrythe pan back to our neighbor!"Now they told the squire of their quarrel and agreement, and it greatlyamused him when he learned that he had settled the dispute. I do not knowwhether or not his shoes were finished. but that cuts no figure. I saw,however, the shoemaker when he slouched through the back yard with the pancarefully concealed under his coat. It served him right that his wife wonthe wager. What do you think?