As Chicken Licken went one day to the wood, an acorn fell upon her poorbald pate, and she thought the sky had fallen. So she said she would goand tell the king that the sky had fallen. So Chicken Licken turned back,and met Hen Len."Well, Hen Len, where are you going?"And Hen Len said, "I'm going to the wood for some meat."And Chicken Licken said, "Oh! Hen Len, don't go, for I was going, and thesky fell upon my poor bald pate, and I'm going to tell the king."So Hen Len turned back with Chicken Licken, and met Cock Lock. "Oh!Cock Lock, where are you going?"And Cock Lock said, "I'm going to the wood for some meat." Then Hen Lensaid, "Oh! Cock Lock, don't go, for I was going, and I met Chicken Licken,and Chicken Licken had been at the wood, and the sky had fallen on herpoor bald pate, and we are going to tell the king."So Cock Lock turned back, and met Duck Luck. "Well, Duck Luck, where areyou going?"And Duck Luck said, "I'm going to the wood for some meat."Then Cock Lock said, "Oh! Duck Luck, don't go, for I was going, and I metHen Len, and Hen Len met Chicken Licken, and Chicken Licken had been atthe wood, and the sky had fallen on her poor bald pate, and we are goingto tell the king."So Duck Luck turned back, and met Drake Lake."Well, Drake Lake, where are you going?" And Drake Lake said, "I'm goingto the wood for some meat."Then Duck Luck said, "Oh! Drake Lake, don't go, for I was going, and I metCock Lock, and Cock Lock met Hen Len, and Hen Len met Chicken Licken, andChicken Licken had been at the wood, and the sky had fallen on her poorbald pate, and we are going to tell the king."So Drake Lake turned back, and met Goose Loose. "Well, Goose Loose, whereare you going?"And Goose Loose said, "I'm going to the wood for some meat."Then Drake Lake said, "Oh! Goose Loose, don't go, for I was going, and Imet Duck Luck, and Duck Luck met Cock Lock, and Cock Lock met Hen Len, andHen Len met Chicken Licken, and Chicken Licken had been at the wood, andthe sky had fallen on her poor bald pate, and we are going to tell theking."So Goose Loose turned back, and met Gander Lander. " Well, Gander Lander,where are you going?"And Gander Lander said, "I'm going to the wood for some meat."Then Goose Loose said, "Oh! Gander Lander, don't go, for I was going, andI met Drake Lake, and Drake Lake met Duck Luck, and Duck Luck metCock Lock, and Cock Lock met Hen Len, and Hen Len met Chicken Licken, andChicken Licken had been at the wood, and the sky had fallen on her poorbald pate, and we are going to tell the king."So Gander Lander turned back, and met Turkey Lurkey. "Well, Turkey Lurkey,where are you going?"And Turkey Lurkey said, "I'm going to the wood for some meat." ThenGander Lander said, "Oh! Turkey Lurkey, don't go, for I was going, and Imet Goose Loose, and Goose Loose met Drake Lake, and Drake Lake metDuck Luck, and Duck Luck met Cock Lock, and Cock Lock met Hen Len, andHen Len met Chicken Licken, and Chicken Licken had been at the wood, andthe sky had fallen on her poor bald pate, and we are going to tell theking."So Turkey Lurkey turned back, and walked with Gander Lander, Goose Loose,Drake Lake, Duck Luck, Cock Lock, Hen Len, and Chicken Licken. And as theywere going along, they met Fox lox.And Fox Lox said, " Where are you going, my pretty maids?"And they said, "Chicken licken went to the wood, and the sky fell upon herpoor bald pate, and we are going to tell the king."And Fox Lox said, "Come along with me, and I will show you the way."But Fox Lox took them into the fox's hole, and he and his young ones soonate up poor Chicken Licken, Hen Len, Cock Lock, Duck Luck, Drake Lake,Goose Loose, Gander Lander, and Turkey Lurkey, and they never saw theking, to tell him that the sky had fallen!