(26) From the Russian.There was once upon a time a peasant woman who had a daughter and astep daughter. The daughter had her own way in everything, and whatevershe did was right in her mother's eyes. but the poor step daughter hada hard time. Let her do what she would, she was always blamed, and gotsmall thanks for all the trouble she took. nothing was right, everythingwrong. and yet, if the truth were known, the girl was worth her weightin gold she was so unselfish and good hearted. But her step mother didnot like her, and the poor girl's days were spent in weeping. for itwas impossible to live peacefully with the woman. The wicked shrew wasdetermined to get rid of the girl by fair means or foul, and kept sayingto her father: 'Send her away, old man. send her away anywhere so thatmy eyes sha'n't be plagued any longer by the sight of her, or my earstormented by the sound of her voice. Send her out into the fields, andlet the cutting frost do for her.'In vain did the poor old father weep and implore her pity. she was firm,and he dared not gainsay her. So he placed his daughter in a sledge,not even daring to give her a horse cloth to keep herself warm with, anddrove her out on to the bare, open fields, where he kissed her and lefther, driving home as fast as he could, that he might not witness hermiserable death.Deserted by her father, the poor girl sat down under a fir tree at theedge of the forest and began to weep silently. Suddenly she heard afaint sound: it was King Frost springing from tree to tree, and crackinghis fingers as he went. At length he reached the fir tree beneath whichshe was sitting, and with a crisp crackling sound he alighted besideher, and looked at her lovely face.'Well, maiden,' he snapped out, 'do you know who I am? I am King Frost,king of the red noses.''All hail to you, great King!' answered the girl, in a gentle, tremblingvoice. 'Have you come to take me?''Are you warm, maiden?' he replied.'Quite warm, King Frost,' she answered, though she shivered as shespoke.Then King Frost stooped down, and bent over the girl, and the cracklingsound grew louder, and the air seemed to be full of knives and darts.and again he asked:'Maiden, are you warm? Are you warm, you beautiful girl?'And though her breath was almost frozen on her lips, she whisperedgently, 'Quite warm, King Frost.'Then King Frost gnashed his teeth, and cracked his fingers, and his eyessparkled, and the crackling, crisp sound was louder than ever, and forthe last time he asked her:'Maiden, are you still warm? Are you still warm, little love?'And the poor girl was so stiff and numb that she could just gasp, 'Stillwarm, O King!'Now her gentle, courteous words and her uncomplaining ways touchedKing Frost, and he had pity on her, and he wrapped her up in furs, andcovered her with blankets, and he fetched a great box, in which werebeautiful jewels and a rich robe embroidered in gold and silver. And sheput it on, and looked more lovely than ever, and King Frost stepped withher into his sledge, with six white horses.In the meantime the wicked step mother was waiting at home for news ofthe girl's death, and preparing pancakes for the funeral feast. And shesaid to her husband: 'Old man, you had better go out into the fields andfind your daughter's body and bury her.' Just as the old man was leavingthe house the little dog under the table began to bark, saying:'YOUR daughter shall live to be your delight.HER daughter shall die this very night.''Hold your tongue, you foolish beast!' scolded the woman. 'There's apancake for you, but you must say:"HER daughter shall have much silver and gold.HIS daughter is frozen quite stiff and cold."'But the doggie ate up the pancake and barked, saying:'His daughter shall wear a crown on her head.Her daughter shall die unwooed, unwed.'Then the old woman tried to coax the doggie with more pancakes andto terrify it with blows, but he barked on, always repeating the samewords. And suddenly the door creaked and flew open, and a great heavychest was pushed in, and behind it came the step daughter, radiant andbeautiful, in a dress all glittering with silver and gold. For a momentthe step mother's eyes were dazzled. Then she called to her husband:'Old man, yoke the horses at once into the sledge, and take my daughterto the same field and leave her on the same spot exactly. 'and so theold man took the girl and left her beneath the same tree where he hadparted from his daughter. In a few minutes King Frost came past, and,looking at the girl, he said:'Are you warm, maiden?''What a blind old fool you must be to ask such a question!' she answeredangrily. 'Can't you see that my hands and feet are nearly frozen?'Then King Frost sprang to and fro in front of her, questioning her, andgetting only rude, rough words in reply, till at last he got very angry,and cracked his fingers, and gnashed his teeth, and froze her to death.But in the hut her mother was waiting for her return, and as she grewimpatient she said to her husband: 'Get out the horses, old man, to goand fetch her home. but see that you are careful not to upset the sledgeand lose the chest.'But the doggie beneath the table began to bark, saying:'Your daughter is frozen quite stiff and cold,And shall never have a chest full of gold.''Don't tell such wicked lies!' scolded the woman. 'There's a cake foryou. now say:"HER daughter shall marry a mighty King."At that moment the door flew open, and she rushed out to meet herdaughter, and as she took her frozen body in her arms she too waschilled to death.