There was once a little farmer and his wife living near Coolgarrow. Theyhad three children, and my story happened while the youngest was a baby.The wife was a good wife enough, but her mind was all on her family andher farm, and she hardly ever went to her knees without falling asleep,and she thought the time spent in the chapel was twice as long as itneed be. So, friends, she let her man and her two children go beforeher one day to Mass, while she called to consult a fairy man about adisorder one of her cows had. She was late at the chapel, and was sorryall the day after, for her husband was in grief about it, and she wasvery fond of him.Late that night he was wakened up by the cries of his children callingout 'Mother! Mother!' When he sat up and rubbed his eyes, there was nowife by his side, and when he asked the little ones what was become oftheir mother, they said they saw the room full of nice little men andwomen, dressed in white and red and green, and their mother in themiddle of them, going out by the door as if she was walking in hersleep. Out he ran, and searched everywhere round the house but, neithertale nor tidings did he get of her for many a day.Well, the poor man was miserable enough, for he was as fond of his womanas she was of him. It used to bring the salt tears down his cheeksto see his poor children neglected and dirty, as they often were, andthey'd be bad enough only for a kind neighbour that used to look inwhenever she could spare time. The infant was away with a nurse.About six weeks after just as he was going out to his work onemorning a neighbour, that used to mind women when they were ill, cameup to him, and kept step by step with him to the field, and this is whatshe told him.'Just as I was falling asleep last night, I heard a horse's tramp onthe grass and a knock at the door, and there, when I came out, was afine looking dark man, mounted on a black horse, and he told me to getready in all haste, for a lady was in great want of me. As soon as I puton my cloak and things, he took me by the hand, and I was sitting behindhim before I felt myself stirring. "Where are we going, sir?" says I."You'll soon know," says he. and he drew his fingers across my eyes,and not a ray could I see. I kept a tight grip of him, and I little knewwhether he was going backwards or forwards, or how long we were aboutit, till my hand was taken again, and I felt the ground under me. Thefingers went the other way across my eyes, and there we were beforea castle door, and in we went through a big hall and great rooms allpainted in fine green colours, with red and gold bands and ornaments,and the finest carpets and chairs and tables and window curtains, andgrand ladies and gentlemen walking about. At last we came to a bedroom,with a beautiful lady in bed, with a fine bouncing boy beside her. Thelady clapped her hands, and in came the Dark Man and kissed her and thebaby, and praised me, and gave me a bottle of green ointment to rub thechild all over.'Well, the child I rubbed, sure enough. but my right eye began to smart,and I put up my finger and gave it a rub, and then stared, for neverin all my life was I so frightened. The beautiful room was a big, roughcave, with water oozing over the edges of the stones and through theclay. and the lady, and the lord, and the child weazened, poverty bittencreatures nothing but skin and bone and the rich dresses were oldrags. I didn't let on that I found any difference, and after a bit saysthe Dark Man, "Go before me to the hall door, and I will be with you ina few moments, and see you safe home." Well, just as I turned into theoutside cave, who should I see watching near the door but poor Molly.She looked round all terrified, and says she to me in a whisper, "I'mbrought here to nurse the child of the king and queen of the fairies.but there is one chance of saving me. All the court will pass the crossnear Templeshambo next Friday night, on a visit to the fairies of OldRoss. If John can catch me by the hand or cloak when I ride by, and hascourage not to let go his grip, I'll be safe. Here's the king. Don'topen your mouth to answer. I saw what happened with the ointment."'The Dark Man didn't once cast his eye towards Molly, and he seemed tohave no suspicion of me. When we came out I looked about me, and wheredo you think we were but in the dyke of the Rath of Cromogue. I wason the horse again, which was nothing but a big rag weed, and I wasin dread every minute I'd fall off. but nothing happened till I foundmyself in my own cabin. The king slipped five guineas into my hand assoon as I was on the ground, and thanked me, and bade me good night. Ihope I'll never see his face again. I got into bed, and couldn't sleepfor a long time. and when I examined my five guineas this morning, thatI left in the table drawer the last thing, I found five withered leavesof oak bad luck to the giver!'Well, you may all think the fright, and the joy, and the grief thepoor man was in when the woman finished her story. They talked and theytalked, but we needn't mind what they said till Friday night came, whenboth were standing where the mountain road crosses the one going toRoss.There they stood, looking towards the bridge of Thuar, in the dead ofthe night, with a little moonlight shining from over Kilachdiarmid. Atlast she gave a start, and "By this and by that," says she, "here theycome, bridles jingling and feathers tossing!" He looked, but could seenothing. and she stood trembling and her eyes wide open, looking downthe way to the ford of Ballinacoola. "I see your wife," says she,"riding on the outside just so as to rub against us. We'll walk onquietly, as if we suspected nothing, and when we are passing I'll giveyou a shove. If you don't do YOUR duty then, woe be with you!"Well, they walked on easy, and the poor hearts beating in both theirbreasts. and though he could see nothing, he heard a faint jingle andtrampling and rustling, and at last he got the push that she promised.He spread out his arms, and there was his wife's waist within them, andhe could see her plain. but such a hullabulloo rose as if there was anearthquake, and he found himself surrounded by horrible looking things,roaring at him and striving to pull his wife away. But he made the signof the cross and bid them begone in God's name, and held his wife as ifit was iron his arms were made of. Bedad, in one moment everything wasas silent as the grave, and the poor woman lying in a faint in the armsof her husband and her good neighbour. Well, all in good time she wasminding her family and her business again. and I'll go bail, after thefright she got, she spent more time on her knees, and avoided fairy menall the days of the week, and particularly on Sunday.It is hard to have anything to do with the good people without gettinga mark from them. My brave nurse didn't escape no more than another.She was one Thursday at the market of Enniscorthy, when what did she seewalking among the tubs of butter but the Dark Man, very hungry looking,and taking a scoop out of one tub and out of another. 'Oh, sir,' saysshe, very foolish, 'I hope your lady is well, and the baby.' 'Prettywell, thank you,' says he, rather frightened like. 'How do I look inthis new suit?' says he, getting to one side of her. 'I can't see youplain at all, sir,' says she. 'Well, now?' says he, getting round herback to the other side. 'Musha, indeed, sir, your coat looks nobetter than a withered dock leaf.' 'Maybe, then,' says he, 'it will bedifferent now,' and he struck the eye next him with a switch. Friends,she never saw a glimmer after with that one till the day of her death.'Legendary Fictions of the Irish Celts,' by Patrick Kennedy.