One day a Brahman adjured his wife not to eat anything without him lestshe should become a she goat. In reply the Brahman's wife begged him notto eat anything without her, lest he should be changed into a tiger. Along time passed by and neither of them broke their word, until one daythe Brahman's wife, while giving food to her children, herself took alittle to taste. and her husband was not present. That very moment she waschanged into a goat.When the Brahman came home and saw the she goat running about the househe was intensely grieved, because he knew that it was none other than hisown beloved wife. He kept the goat tied up in the yard of his house, andtended it very carefully.In a few years he married again, but this wife was not kind to thechildren. She at once took a dislike to them, and treated them unkindlyand gave them little food. Their mother, the she goat, heard theircomplainings, and noticed that they were getting thin, and thereforecalled one of them to her secretly, and bade the child tell the others tostrike her horns with a stick whenever they were very hungry, and somefood would fall down for them. They did so, and instead of getting weakerand thinner, as their stepmother had expected, they became stronger andstronger. She was surprised to see them getting so fat and strong whileshe was giving them so little food.In course of time a one eyed daughter was born to this wicked woman.She loved the girl with all her heart, and grudged not any expense orattention that she thought the child required. One day, when the girl hadgrown quite big and could walk and talk well, her mother sent her to playwith the other children, and ordered her to notice how and whence theyobtained anything to eat. The girl promised to do so, and most rigidlystayed by them the whole day, and saw all that happened.On hearing that the goat supplied her stepchildren with food the womangot very angry, and determined to kill the beast as soon as possible. Shepretended to be very ill, and sending for the hakim, bribed him toprescribe some goat's flesh for her. The Brahman was very anxious abouthis wife's state, and although he grieved to have to slay the goat (for hewas obliged to kill the goat, not having money to purchase another), yethe did not mind if his wife really recovered. But the little children weptwhen they heard this, and went to their mother, the she goat, in greatdistress, and told her everything."Do not weep, my darlings," she said. "It is much better for me to diethan to live such a life as this. Do not weep. I have no fear concerningyou. Food will be provided for you, if you will attend to my instructions.Be sure to gather my bones, and bury them all together in some secretplace, and whenever you are very hungry go to that place and ask for food.Food will then be given you."The poor she goat gave this advice only just in time. Scarcely had itfinished these words and the children had departed than the butcher camewith a knife and slew it. Its body was cut into pieces and cooked, and thestepmother had the meat, but the stepchildren got the bones. They did withthem as they had been directed, and thus got food regularly and inabundance.Some time after the death of the she goat one morning one of thestepdaughters was washing her face in the stream that ran by the house,when her nose ring unfastened and fell into the water. A fish happened tosee it and swallowed it, and this fish was caught by a man and sold to theking's cook for his majesty's dinner. Great was the surprise of the cookwhen, on opening the fish to clean it, he found the nose ring. He took itto the king, who was so interested in it that he issued a proclamation andset it to every town and village in his dominions, that whosoever hadmissed a nose ring should apply to him. Within a few days the brother ofthe girl reported to the king that the nose ring belonged to his sister,who had lost it one day while bathing her face in the river. The kingordered the girl to appear before him, and was so fascinated by her prettyface and nice manner that he married her, and provided amply for thesupport of her family.