There once lived near a thick forest a woodcutter who had a wicked wifeandtwo good children. Now the woodcutter was very poor and had scarcelyenoughbread to still his own hunger and that of his family. One day the fatherhadagain gone into the woods, and the wicked mother was alone in their smallhut.The wicked mother said to the children, "Go into the forest and collectsomewood. The first one of you to return home will get a very beautifulapple."The girl and the boy went out into the forest to collect wood andhurriedlygathered up two bundles of twigs. Having tied up the bundles, they quicklyturned their steps toward home. But as they approached their hut the moreuneasy they grew. It was as though they had stones on their hearts.As they were walking along, the boy's shoulder strap broke, and heasked hissister, "Wait for me. My shoulder strap broke, and I have to tie ittogether."But the girl thought about the beautiful apple that their mother hadpromised, and she hurried onward. She had gone only a little way when hershoulder strap broke as well. Her brother caught up with her, pantingunder hisheavy burden of wood.The girl now asked him, "Wait for me. My shoulder strap broke, and Ihave totie it together."But the boy had no ears for his sister's request, and he replied, "Youdidn't wait for me. Now I'm going to get the apple."The boy ran and ran, finally arriving at home. Throwing his bundle ofwoodinto the empty kitchen, he asked his mother for the promised apple."Go upstairs to the storeroom. The apples are there in the chest. Youcanget three of them," said the mother.They boy was not happy with this answer and told his mother that hewantedher to fetch the apples, as she did other times.The mother finally gave in to the boy's wishes, and they went togethertothe storeroom and to the chest where the apples were. The boy wasoverjoyed atthe sight of the apples. He clapped his hands, then leaned over into thechestto get his apples. While he was happily looking at them, his mothersuddenlyslammed the lid shut. The poor boy's head rolled into the chest, and hisbodylay there on the floor motionless and lifeless. The wicked mother took thecorpse and hung it on a nail behind the storeroom door.In the meantime the girl, who had fixed her broken shoulder strap,arrivedwith her bundle of wood. She unloaded it in the kitchen and asked hermotherfor an apple. The mother was very friendly, beckoned her nearer, and gaveher ared apple.The girl bit into the apple, and the mother went to the hearth to fix anoonmeal for the father, who was chopping wood in the forest."Go upstairs to the storeroom and fetch me some flour and lard," saidthemother to the girl. "But do not look behind the door."The poor little sister went upstairs to the storeroom, and she did lookbehind the door, and she saw her poor dead brother hanging there. The girlcried so bitterly that a stone would have felt sorry for her. Tearsdripped tothe floor. Finally she had to go downstairs to her mother, and crying, shebrought her the flour and lard she had asked for."Did you look behind the door?" the wicked mother asked the cryinggirl."Oh no," replied the poor child, crying even harder and holding herworn outblue apron in front of her face.The mother was satisfied with her answer and sent the sobbing girl outintothe dark woods with the father's noon meal.Today the girl took no pleasure in the squirrels that were climbingabout inthe fir trees, nor in the pinecones and wildflowers, but instead went herwayquietly crying. She finally came to her father, who quickly reached forthesoup, for he was hungry. He was very surprised to see meat in his souptoday,because for a long time he had not even seen a little piece of meat, muchlesshad one in his mouth.He sat down beneath a large, beautiful beech tree and began to eat. Hetookthe first piece of meat onto his bone spoon and was about to put it intohismouth when a little bird flew to the tree and began to sing:Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman,My mother cut off my head,My sister carried me out,My father gnawed my bones clean,Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman.The woodcutter found this very strange, and the little bird gavehimno peace, singing over and over again:Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman,My mother cut off my head,My sister carried me out,My father gnawed my bones clean,Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman.The father felt more and more ill at ease, until even therustling ofthe leaves frightened him. Then he went home with the poor girl, who wasverysad and spoke not a word.Meanwhile the wicked mother had busied herself packing away and hidingthedead boy. However, many, many little birds flattered around her, leavingher nopeace and singing in a very sorrowful tone:Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman,My mother cut off my head,My sister carried me out,My father gnawed my bones clean,Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman.She wanted to drive away the innocent little creatures, but asshewas shooing them away and chasing after them, the heavy storeroom doorfellshut and cut off the wicked mother's head.The father arrived at home, and inside everything was quiet and still.Onlythe birds were singing:Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman,My mother cut off my head,My sister carried me out,My father gnawed my bones clean,Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman.The father went upstairs into the storeroom, and opening thedoor hefound his wicked wife and his poor little son, both lying dead on thefloor.And the story is done,So you must go home!Or should I tell you anotherAbout peas and fodder?