In the land of Erin there dwelt long ago a widow who had an only son.He was a clever boy, so she saved up enough money to send him to school,and, as soon as he was old enough, to apprentice him to any trade thathe would choose. But when the time came, he said he would not be boundto any trade, and that he meant to be a thief.Now his mother was very sorrowful when she heard of this, but she knewquite well that if she tried to stop his having his own way he wouldonly grow more determined to get it. So all the answer she made was thatthe end of thieves was hanging at the bridge of Dublin, and then sheleft him alone, hoping that when he was older he might become moresensible.One day she was going to church to hear a sermon from a great preacher,and she begged the Shifty Lad, as the neighbours called him from thetricks he played, to come with her. But he only laughed and declaredthat he did not like sermons, adding:'However, I will promise you this, that the first trade you hear namedafter you come out from church shall be my trade for the rest of mylife.'These words gave a little comfort to the poor woman, and her heart waslighter than before as she bade him farewell.When the Shifty Lad thought that the hour had nearly come for the sermonto be over, he hid himself in some bushes in a little path that ledstraight to his mother's house, and, as she passed along, thinking ofall the good things she had heard, a voice shouted close to her ear'Robbery! Robbery! Robbery!' The suddenness of it made her jump. Thenaughty boy had managed to change his voice, so that she did not knowit for his, and he had concealed himself so well that, though she peeredabout all round her, she could see no one. As soon as she had turnedthe corner the Shifty Lad came out, and by running very fast throughthe wood he contrived to reach home before his mother, who found himstretched out comfortably before the fire.'Well, have you got any news to tell me?' asked he.'No, nothing. for I left the church at once, and did not stop to speakto anyone.''Oh, then no one has mentioned a trade to you?' he said in tones ofdisappointment.'Ye es,' she replied slowly. 'At least, as I walked down the path avoice cried out "Robbery! Robbery! Robbery!" but that was all.''And quite enough too,' answered the boy. 'What did I tell you? That isgoing to be my trade.''Then your end will be hanging at the bridge of Dublin,' said she. Butthere was no sleep for her that night, for she lay in the dark thinkingabout her son.'If he is to be a thief at all, he had better be a good one. And who isthere that can teach him?' the mother asked herself. But an idea cameto her, and she arose early, before the sun was up, and set off for thehome of the Black Rogue, or Gallows Bird, who was such a wonderful thiefthat, though all had been robbed by him, no one could catch him.'Good morning to you,' said the woman as she reached the place where theBlack Gallows Bird lived when he was not away on his business. 'My sonhas a fancy to learn your trade. Will you be kind enough to teach him?''If he is clever, I don't mind trying,' answered the Black Gallows Bird.'and, of course, if ANY one can turn him into a first rate thief, itis I. But if he is stupid, it is of no use at all. I can't bear stupidpeople.''No, he isn't stupid,' said the woman with a sigh. 'So to night, afterdark, I will send him to you.'The Shifty Lad jumped for joy when his mother told him where she hadbeen.'I will become the best thief in all Erin!' he cried, and paid no heedwhen his mother shook her head and murmured something about 'the bridgeof Dublin.'Every evening after dark the Shifty Lad went to the home of the BlackGallows Bird, and many were the new tricks he learned. By and by he wasallowed to go out with the Bird and watch him at work, and at last therecame a day when his master though that he had grown clever enough tohelp in a big robbery.'There is a rich farmer up there on the hill, who has just sold all hisfat cattle for much money and has bought some lean ones which will costhim little. Now it happens that, while he has received the money for thefat cattle, he has not yet paid the price of the thin ones, which he hasin the cowhouse. To morrow he will go to the market with the money inhis hand, so to night we must get at the chest. When all is quiet wewill hide in the loft.'There was no moon, and it was the night of Hallowe'en, and everyonewas burning nuts and catching apples in a tub of water with their handstied, and playing all sorts of other games, till the Shifty Lad grewquite tired of waiting for them to get to bed. The Black Gallows Bird,who was more accustomed to the business, tucked himself up on the hayand went to sleep, telling the boy to wake him when the merry makers haddeparted. But the Shifty Lad, who could keep still no longer, crept downto the cowshed and loosened the heads of the cattle which were tied, andthey began to kick each other and bellow, and made such a noise that thecompany in the farmhouse ran out to tie them up again. Then the ShiftyLad entered the room and picked up a big handful of nuts, and returnedto the loft, where the Black Rogue was still sleeping. At first theShifty Lad shut his eyes too, but very soon he sat up, and taking a bigneedle and thread from his pocket, he sewed the hem of the Black GallowsBird's coat to a heavy piece of bullock's hide that was hanging at hisback.By this time the cattle were all tied up again, but as the people couldnot find their nuts they sat round the fire and began to tell stories.'I will crack a nut,' said the Shifty Lad.'You shall not,' cried the Black Gallows Bird. 'they will hear you.''I don't care,' answered the Shifty Lad. 'I never spend Hallowe'en yetwithout cracking a nut'. and he cracked one.'Some one is cracking nuts up there,' said one of the merry makers inthe farmhouse. 'Come quickly, and we will see who it is.'He spoke loudly, and the Black Gallows Bird heard, and ran out of theloft, dragging the big leather hide after him which the Shifty Lad hadsewed to his coat.'He is stealing my hide!' shouted the farmer, and they all darted afterhim. but he was too swift for them, and at last he managed to tear thehide from his coat, and then he flew like a hare till he reached his oldhiding place. But all this took a long time, and meanwhile the ShiftyLad got down from the loft, and searched the house till he found thechest with the gold and silver in it, concealed behind a load of strawand covered with loaves of bread and a great cheese. The Shifty Ladslung the money bags round his shoulders and took the bread and thecheese under his arm, then set out quietly for the Black Rogue's house.'Here you are at last, you villain!' cried his master in great wrath.'But I will be revenged on you.''It is all right,' replied the Shifty Lad calmly. 'I have brought whatyou wanted'. and he laid the things he was carrying down on the ground.'Ah! you are the better thief,' said the Black Rogue's wife. and theBlack Rogue added:'Yes, it is you who are the clever boy'. and they divided the spoil andthe Black Gallows Bird had one half and the Shifty Lad the other half.A few weeks after that the Black Gallows Bird had news of a wedding thatwas to be held near the town. and the bridegroom had many friends andeverybody sent him a present. Now a rich farmer who lived up near themoor thought that nothing was so useful to a young couple when theyfirst began to keep house as a fine fat sheep, so he bade his shepherdgo off to the mountain where the flock were feeding, and bring himback the best he could find. And the shepherd chose out the largest andfattest of the sheep and the one with the whitest fleece. then he tiedits feet together and put it across his shoulder, for he had a long wayto go.That day, the Shifty Lad happened to be wandering over the moor, when hesaw the man with the sheep on his shoulder walking along the road whichled past the Black Rogue's house. The sheep was heavy and the man wasin no hurry, so he came slowly and the boy knew that he himself couldeasily get back to his master before the shepherd was even in sight.'I will wager,' he cried, as he pushed quickly through the bushes whichhid the cabin 'I will wager that I will steal the sheep from the manthat is coming before he passes here.''Will you indeed?' said the Gallows Bird. 'I will wager you a hundredsilver pieces that you can do nothing of the sort.''Well, I will try it, anyway,' replied the boy, and disappeared in thebushes. He ran fast till he entered a wood through which the shepherdmust go, and then he stopped, and taking off one of his shoes smeared itwith mud and set it in the path. When this was done he slipped behind arock and waited.Very soon the man came up, and seeing the shoe lying there, he stoopedand looked at it.'It is a good shoe,' he said to himself, 'but very dirty. Still, if Ihad the fellow, I would be at the trouble of cleaning it'. so he threwthe shoe down again and went on.The Shifty Lad smiled as he heard him, and, picking up the shoe, hecrept round by a short way and laid the other shoe on the path. A fewminutes after the shepherd arrived, and beheld the second shoe lying onthe path.'Why, that is the fellow of the dirty shoe!' he exclaimed when he sawit. 'I will go back and pick up the other one, and then I shall have apair of good shoes,' and he put the sheep on the grass and returned tofetch the shoe. Then the Shifty Lad put on his shoes, and, picking upthe sheep, carried it home. And the Black Rogue paid him the hundredmarks of his wager.When the shepherd reached the farmhouse that night he told his tale tohis master, who scolded him for being stupid and careless, and bade himgo the next day to the mountain and fetch him a kid, and he would sendthat as a wedding gift. But the Shifty Lad was on the look out, and hidhimself in the wood, and the moment the man drew near with the kid onhis shoulders began to bleat like a sheep, and no one, not even thesheep's own mother, could have told the difference.'Why, it must have got its feet loose, and have strayed after all,'thought the man. and he put the kid on the grass and hurried off in thedirection of the bleating. Then the boy ran back and picked up the kid,and took it to the Black Gallows Bird.The shepherd could hardly believe his eyes when he returned from seekingthe sheep and found that the kid had vanished. He was afraid to go homeand tell the same tale that he had told yesterday. so he searched thewood through and through till night was nearly come. Then he felt thatthere was no help for it, and he must go home and confess to his master.Of course, the farmer was very angry at this second misfortune. but thistime he told him to drive one of the big bulls from the mountain, andwarned him that if he lost THAT he would lose his place also. Again theShifty Lad, who was on the watch, perceived him pass by, and when he sawthe man returning with the great bull he cried to the Black Rogue:'Be quick and come into the wood, and we will try to get the bull also.''But how can we do that?' asked the Black Rogue.'Oh, quite easily! You hide yourself out there and baa like a sheep, andI will go in the other direction and bleat like a kid. It will be allright, I assure you.'The shepherd was walking slowly, driving the bull before him, when hesuddenly heard a loud baa amongst the bushes far away on one side of thepath, and a feeble bleat answering it from the other side.'Why, it must be the sheep and the kid that I lost,' said he. 'Yes,surely it must'. and tying the bull hastily to a tree, he went offafter the sheep and the kid, and searched the wood till he was tired. Ofcourse by the time he came back the two thieves had driven the bull homeand killed him for meat, so the man was obliged to go to his master andconfess that he had been tricked again.After this the Black Rogue and the Shifty Lad grew bolder and bolder,and stole great quantities of cattle and sold them and grew quite rich.One day they were returning from the market with a large sum of money intheir pockets when they passed a gallows erected on the top of a hill.'Let us stop and look at that gallows,' exclaimed the Shifty Lad. 'Ihave never seen one so close before. Yet some say that it is the end ofall thieves.'There was no one in sight, and they carefully examined every part of it.'I wonder how it feels to be hanged,' said the Shifty Lad. 'I shouldlike to know, in case they ever catch me. I'll try first, and then youcan do so.'As he spoke he fastened the loose cord about his neck, and when it wasquite secure he told the Black Rogue to take the other end of the ropeand draw him up from the ground.'When I am tired of it I will shake my legs, and then you must let medown,' said he.The Black Rogue drew up the rope, but in half a minute the Shifty Lad'slegs began to shake, and he quickly let it down again.'You can't imagine what a funny feeling hanging gives you,' murmuredthe Shifty Lad, who looked rather purple in the face and spoke in an oddvoice. 'I don't think you have every tried it, or you wouldn't have letme go up first. Why, it is the pleasantest thing I have ever done. I wasshaking my legs from sheer delight, and if you had been there you wouldhave shaken your legs too.''Well, let me try, if it is so nice,' answered the Black Rogue. 'But besure you tie the knot securely, for I don't want to fall down and breakmy neck.''Oh, I will see to that!' replied the Shifty Lad. 'When you are tired,just whistle, and I'll let you down.'So the Black Rogue was drawn up, and as soon as he was as high as therope would allow him to go the Shifty Lad called to him:'Don't forest to whistle when you want to come down. but if you areenjoying yourself as I did, shake your legs.'And in a moment the Black Rogue's legs began to shake and to kick, andthe Shifty Lad stood below, watching him and laughing heartily.'Oh, how funny you are! If you could only see yourself! Oh, you AREfunny! But when you have had enough, whistle and you shall be let down'.and he rocked again with laughter.But no whistle came, and soon the legs ceased to shake and to kick, forthe Black Gallows Bird was dead, as the Shifty Lad intended he shouldbe.Then he went home to the Black Rogue's wife, and told her that herhusband was dead, and that he was ready to marry her if she liked. Butthe woman had been fond of the Black Rogue, thief though he was, and sheshrank from the Shifty Lad in horror, and set the people after him,and he had to fly to another part of the country where none knew of hisdoings.Perhaps if the Shifty Lad's mother knew anything of this, she may havethought that by this time her son might be tired of stealing, and readyto try some honest trade. But in reality he loved the tricks and danger,and life would have seemed very dull without them. So he went on just asbefore, and made friends whom he taught to be as wicked as himself, tillthey took to robbing the king's storehouses, and by the advice of theWise Man the king sent out soldiers to catch the band of thieves.For a long while they tried in vain to lay hands on them. The Shifty Ladwas too clever for them all, and if they laid traps he laid better ones.At last one night he stole upon some soldiers while they were asleep ina barn and killed them, and persuaded the villagers that if THEY did notkill the other soldiers before morning they would certainly be killedthemselves. Thus it happened that when the sun rose not a single soldierwas alive in the village.Of course this news soon reached the king's ears, and he was very angry,and summoned the Wise Man to take counsel with him. And this was thecounsel of the Wise Man that he should invite all the people in thecountryside to a ball, and among them the bold and impudent thief wouldbe sure to come, and would be sure to ask the king's daughter to dancewith him.'Your counsel is good,' said the king, who made his feast and preparedfor his ball. and all the people of the countryside were present, andthe Shifty Lad came with them.When everyone had eaten and drunk as much as they wanted they went intothe ballroom. There was a great throng, and while they were pressingthrough the doorway the Wise Man, who had a bottle of black ointmenthidden in his robes, placed a tiny dot on the cheek of the Shifty Ladnear his ear. The Shifty Lad felt nothing, but as he approached theking's daughter to ask her to be his partner he caught sight of theblack dot in a silver mirror. Instantly he guessed who had put itthere and why, but he said nothing, and danced so beautifully that theprincess was quite delighted with him. At the end of the dance he bowedlow to his partner and left her, to mingle with the crowd that wasfilling the doorway. As he passed the Wise Man he contrived not only tosteal the bottle but to place two black dots on his face, and one on thefaces of twenty other men. Then he slipped the bottle back in the WiseMan's robe.By and by he went up to the king's daughter again, and begged for thehonour of another dance. She consented, and while he was stooping totie the ribbons on his shoe she took out from her pocket another bottle,which the Wizard had given her, and put a black dot on his cheek. Butshe was not as skilful as the Wise Man, and the Shifty Lad felt thetouch of her fingers. so as soon as the dance was over he contrived toplace a second black dot on the faces of the twenty men and two more onthe Wizard, after which he slipped the bottle into her pocket.At length the ball came to an end, and then the king ordered all thedoors to be shut, and search made for a man with two black dots on hischeek. The chamberlain went among the guests, and soon found such a man,but just as he was going to arrest him and bring him before the king hiseye fell on another with the same mark, and another, and another, tillhe had counted twenty besides the Wise Man on whose face were foundspots.Not knowing what to do, the chamberlain hurried back with his taleto the king, who immediately sent for the Wise Man, and then for hisdaughter.'The thief must have stolen your bottle,' said the king to the Wizard.'No, my lord, it is here,' answered the Wise Man, holding it out.'Then he must have got yours,' he cried, turning to his daughter.'Indeed, father, it is safe in my pocket,' replied she, taking it out asshe spoke. and they all three looked at each other and remained silent.'Well,' said the king at last, 'the man who has done this is clevererthan most men, and if he will make himself known to me he shall marrythe princess and govern half my kingdom while I am alive, and the wholeof it when I am dead. Go and announce this in the ballroom,' he added toan attendant, 'and bring the fellow hither.'So the attendant went into the ballroom and did as the king had biddenhim, when, to his surprise, not one man, but twenty, stepped forward,all with black dots on their faces.'I am the person you want,' they all exclaimed at once, and theattendant, as much bewildered as the chamberlain had been, desired themto follow him into the king's presence.But the question was too difficult for the king to decide, so he calledtogether his council. For hours they talked, but to no purpose, and inthe end they hit upon a plan which they might just as well have thoughtof at the beginning.And this was the plan. A child was to be brought to the palace, and nextthe king's daughter would give her an apple. Then the child was to takethe apple and be led into a room where the twenty men with the blackdots were sitting in a ring. And to whomsoever the child gave the apple,that man should marry the king's daughter.'Of course,' said the king, 'it may not be the right man, after all, butthen again it MAY be. Anyhow, it is the best we can do.'The princess herself led the child into the room where the twenty menwere now seated. She stood in the centre of the ring for a moment,looking at one man after another, and then held out the apple to theShifty Lad, who was twisting a shaving of wood round his finger, and hadthe mouthpiece of a bagpipe hanging from his neck.'You ought not to have anything which the others have not got,' saidthe chamberlain, who had accompanied the princess. and he bade thechild stand outside for a minute, while he took away the shaving and themouthpiece, and made the Shifty Lad change his place. Then he called thechild in, but the little girl knew him again, and went straight up tohim with the apple.'This is the man whom the child has twice chosen,' said the chamberlain,signing to the Shifty Lad to kneel before the king. 'It was all quitefair. we tried it twice over.' In this way the Shifty Lad won the king'sdaughter, and they were married the next day.A few days later the bride and bridegroom were taking a walk together,and the path led down to the river, and over the river was a bridge.'And what bridge may this be?' asked the Shifty Lad. and the princesstold him that this was the bridge of Dublin.'Is it indeed?' cried he. 'Well, now, many is the time that my motherhas said, when I played her a trick, that my end would be that I shouldhang on the bridge of Dublin.''Oh, if you want to fulfil her prophecies,' laughed the princess, 'youhave only to let me tie my handkerchief round your ankle, and I willhold you as you hang over the wall of the bridge.''That would be fine fun,' said he. 'but you are not strong enough tohold me up.''Oh, yes, I am,' said the princess. 'just try.' So at last he let herbind the handkerchief round his ankle and hang him over the wall, andthey both laughed and jested at the strength of the princess.'Now pull me up again,' called he. but as he spoke a great cry arosethat the palace was burning. The princess turned round with a start, andlet go her handkerchief, and the Shifty Lad fell, and struck his head ona stone, and died in an instant.So his mother's prophecy had come true, after all.West Highland Tales.