It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that there dwelt duringtimes of yore, and years and ages long gone before, in a certaincity of China, a Tailor who was an open handed man thatloved pleasuring and merry making. and who was wont, he and hiswife, to solace themselves from time to time with publicdiversions and amusements. One day they went out with the firstof the light and were returning in the evening when they fell inwith a Hunchback, whose semblance would draw a laugh from careand dispel the horrors of despair. So they went up to enjoylooking at him and invited him to go home with them and converseand carouse with them that night. He consented and accompaniedthem afoot to their home. whereupon the Tailor fared forth to thebazaar (night having just set in) and bought a fried fish andbread and lemons and dry sweetmeats for dessert. and set thevictuals before the Hunchback and they ate. Presently theTailor's wife took a great fid of fish and gave it in a gobbet tothe Gobbo, stopping his mouth with her hand and saying, "ByAllah, thou must down with it at a single gulp. and I will notgive thee time to chew it." So he bolted it. but therein was astiff bone which stuck in his gullet and, his hour being come, hedied. And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased sayingher permitted say.When it was the Twenty fifth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when theTailor's wife gave the Hunchback that mouthful of fish whichended his term of days he died on the instant. Seeing this theTailor cried aloud, "There is no Majesty and there is no Mightsave in Allah! Alas, that this poor wretch should have died in sofoolish fashion at our hands!" and the woman rejoined, "Why thisidle talk? Hast thou not heard his saying who said: Why then waste I my time in grief, until I find no friend tobear my weight of woeHow sleep upon a fire that flames unquenched? Upon the flamesto rest were hard enow!"Asked her husband, "And what shall I do with him?". and sheanswered, "Rise and take him in thine arms and spread a silkenkerchief over him. then I will fare forth, with thee following methis very night and if thou meet any one say, 'This is my son,and his mother and I are carrying him to the doctor that he maylook at him.'" So he rose and taking the Hunchback in his armsbore him along the streets, preceded by his wife who kept crying,"O my son, Allah keep thee! what part paineth thee and where haththis small pox attacked thee?" So all who saw them said"'Tis a child sick of small pox." They went along askingfor the physician's house till folk directed them to that of aleach which was a Jew. They knocked at the door, and there camedown to them a black slave girl who opened and, seeing a manbearing a babe, and a woman with him, said to them, "What is thematter?" "We have a little one with us," answered the Tailor'swife, "and we wish to show him to the physician: so take thisquarter dinar and give it to thy master and let him come down andsee my son who is sore sick." The girl went up to tell hermaster, whereupon the Tailor's wife walked into the vestibule andsaid to her husband, "Leave the Hunchback here and let us fly forour lives." So the Tailor carried the dead man to the top of thestairs and propped him upright against the wall and ran away, heand his wife. Meanwhile the girl went in to the Jew and said tohim, "At the door are a man and a woman with a sick child andthey have given me a quarter dinar for thee, that thou mayest godown and look at the little one and prescribe for it." As soon asthe Jew saw the quarter dinar he rejoiced and rose quickly in hisgreed of gain and went forth hurriedly in the dark. but hardlyhad he made a step when he stumbled on the corpse and threw itover, when it rolled to the bottom of the staircase. So he criedout to the girl to hurry up with the light, and she brought it,whereupon he went down and examining the Hunchback found that hewas stone dead. So he cried out, "O for Esdras! O forMoses! O for Aaron! O for Joshua, son of Nun! O the TenCommandments! I have stumbled against the sick one and he hathfallen downstairs and he is dead! How shall I get this man I havekilled out of my house? O by the hoofs of the ass of Esdras!"Then he took up the body and, carrying it into the house, toldhis wife what had happened and she said to him, "Why dost thousit still? If thou keep him here till day break we shall bothlose our lives. Let us two carry him to the terrace roof andthrow him over into the house of our neighbour, the Moslem, forif he abide there a night the dogs will come down on him from theadjoining terraces and eat him up." Now his neighbour was aReeve, the controller of the Sultan's kitchen, and was wont tobring back great store of oil and fat and broken meats. but thecats and rats used to eat it, or, if the dogs scented a fatsheep's tail they would come down from the nearest roofs and tearat it. and on this wise the beasts had already damaged much ofwhat he brought home. So the Jew and his wife carried theHunchback up to the roof. and, letting him down by his hands andfeet through the wind shaft into the Reeve's house,propped him up against the wall and went their ways. Hardly hadthey done this when the Reeve, who had been passing an eveningwith his friends hearing a recitation of the Koran, came home andopened the door and, going up with a lighted candle, found a sonof Adam standing in the corner under the ventilator. When he sawthis, he said, "Wah! by Allah, very good forsooth! He who robbethmy stuff is none other than a man." Then he turned to theHunchback and said, "So 'tis thou that stealest the meat and thefat! I thought it was the cats and dogs, and I kill the dogs andcats of the quarter and sin against them by killing them. And allthe while 'tis thou comest down from the house terrace throughthe wind shaft. But I will avenge myself upon thee with my ownhand!" So he snatched up a heavy hammer and set upon him andsmote him full on the breast and he fell down. Then he examinedhim and, finding that he was dead, cried out in horror, thinkingthat he had killed him, and said, "There is no Majesty and thereis no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great!" And hefeared for his life, and added "Allah curse the oil and the meatand the grease and the sheep's tails to boot! How hath fate giventhis man his quietus at my hand!" Then he looked at the body andseeing it was that of a Gobbo, said, "Was it not enough for theeto be a hunchback, but thou must likewise be a thief andprig flesh and fat! O thou Veiler, deign to veil me withThy curtain of concealment!" So he took him up on his shouldersand, going forth with him from his house about the latter end ofthe night, carried him to the nearest end of the bazaar, where heset him up on his feet against the wall of a shop at the head ofa dark lane, and left him and went away. After a while up came aNazarene, the Sultan's broker who, much bemused withliquor, was purposing for the Hammam bath as his drunkennesswhispered in his ear, "Verily the call to matins isnigh." He came plodding along and staggering about till he drewnear the Hunchback and squatted down to make water overagainst him. when he happened to glance around and saw a manstanding against the wall. Now some person had snatched off theChristian's turband in the first of the night. so when hesaw the Hunchback hard by he fancied that he also meant to stealhis headdress. Thereupon he clenched his fist and struck him onthe neck, felling him to the ground, and called aloud to thewatchman of the bazaar, and came down on the body in his drunkenfury and kept on belabouring and throttling the corpse. Presentlythe Charley came up and, finding a Nazarene kneeling on a Moslemand frapping him, asked, "What harm hath this one done?". and theBroker answered, "The fellow meant to snatch off my turband.""Get up from him," quoth the watch man. So he arose and theCharley went up to the Hunchback and finding him dead, exclaimed,"By Allah, good indeed! A Christian killing a Mahometan!" Then heseized the Broker and, tying his hands behind his back, carriedhim to the Governor's house, and all the while theNazarene kept saying to himself, "O Messiah! O Virgin! how came Ito kill this fellow? And in what a hurry he must have been todepart this life when he died of a single blow!" Presently, ashis drunkenness fled, came dolour in its stead. So the Broker andthe body were kept in the Governor's place till morning morrowed,when the Wali came out and gave order to hang the supposedmurderer and commanded the executioner make proclamationof the sentence. Forthwith they set up a gallows under which theymade the Nazarene stand and the torch bearer, who was hangman,threw the rope round his neck and passed one end through thepulley, and was about to hoist him up when lo! the Reeve,who was passing by, saw the Broker about to be hanged. and,making his way through the people, cried out to the executioner,"Hold! Hold! I am he who killed the Hunchback!" Asked theGovernor, "What made thee kill him?". and he answered, "I wenthome last night and there found this man who had come down theventilator to steal my property. so I smote him with a hammer onthe breast and he died forthright. Then I took him up and carriedhim to the bazaar and set him up against the wall in such a placenear such a lane." adding, "Is it not enough for me to havekilled a Moslem without also killing a Christian? So hang noneother but me." When the Governor heard these words he releasedthe Broker and said to the torch bearer, "Hang up this man on hisown confession." So he loosed the cord from the Nazarene's neckand threw it round that of the Reeve and, making him stand underthe gallows tree, was about to string him up when behold, theJewish physician pushed through the people and shouted to theexecutioner, "Hold! Hold! It was I and none else killed theHunchback! Last night I was sitting at home when a man and awoman knocked at the door carrying this Gobbo who was sick, andgave my handmaid a quarter dinar, bidding her hand me the fee andtell me to come down and see him. Whilst she was gone the man andthe woman brought him into the house and, setting him on thestairs, went away. and presently I came down and not seeing him,for I was in the dark, stumbled over him and he fell to the footof the staircase and died on the moment. Then we took him up, Iand my wife, and carried him on to the top terrace. and, thehouse of this Reeve being next door to mine, we let the body downthrough the ventilator. When he came home and found the Hunchbackin his house, he fancied he was a thief and struck him with ahammer, so that he fell to the ground, and our neighbour madecertain that he had slain him. Now is it not enough for me tohave killed one Moslem unwittingly, without burdening myself withtaking the life of another Moslem wittingly?" When the Governorheard this he said to the hangman, "Set free the Reeve and hangthe Jew." Thereupon the torch bearer took him and slung the cordround his neck when behold, the Tailor pushed through the people,and shouted to the executioner, "Hold! Hold! It was I and noneelse killed the Hunchback. and this was the fashion thereof. Ihad been out a pleasuring yesterday and, coming back to supper,fell in with this Gobbo, who was drunk and drumming away andsinging lustily to his tambourine. So I accosted him and carriedhim to my house and bought a fish, and we sat down to eat.Presently my wife took a fid of fish and, making a gobbet ofit, crammed it into his mouth. but some of it went downthe wrong way or stuck in his gullet and he died on the instant.So we lifted him up, I and my wife, and carried him to the Jew'shouse where the slave girl came down and opened the door to usand I said to her, 'Tell thy master that there are a man and awoman and a sick person for thee to see!' I gave her a quarterdinar and she went up to tell her master. and, whilst she wasgone, I carried the Hunchback to the head of the staircase andpropped him up against the wall, and went off with my wife. Whenthe Jew came down he stumbled over him and thought that he hadkilled him." Then he asked the Jew, "Is this the truth?". and theJew answered, "Yes." Thereupon the Tailor turned to the Governor,and said, "Leave go the Jew and hang me." When the Governor heardthe Tailor's tale he marvelled at the matter of this Hunchbackand exclaimed. "Verily this is an adventure which should berecorded in books!" Then he said to the hangman, "Let the Jew goand hang the Tailor on his own confession." The executioner tookthe Tailor and put the rope around his neck and said, "I am tiredof such slow work: we bring out this one and change him for thatother, and no one is hanged after all!" Now the Hunchback inquestion was, they relate, jester to the Sultan of China whocould not bear him out of his sight. so when the fellow got drunkand did not make his appearance that night or the next day tillnoon, the Sultan asked some of his courtiers about him and theyanswered, "O our lord, the Governor hath come upon him dead andhath ordered his murderer to be hanged. but, as the hangman wasabout to hoist him up there came a second and a third and afourth and each one said, 'It is I, and none else killed theHunchback!' and each gave a full and circumstantial account ofthe manner of the jester being killed." When the King heard thishe cried aloud to the Chamberlain in waiting, "Go down to theGovernor and bring me all four of them." So the Chamberlain wentdown at once to the place of execution, where he found the torchbearer on the point of hanging the Tailor and shouted to him,"Hold! Hold!" Then he gave the King's command to the Governor whotook the Tailor, the Jew, the Nazarene and the Reeve (theHunchback's body being borne on men's shoulders) and went up withone and all of them to the King. When he came into the presence,he kissed the ground and acquainted the ruler with the wholestory which it is needless to relate for, as they say, There isno avail in a thrice told tale. The Sultan hearing it marvelledand was moved to mirth and commanded the story to be written inletters of liquid gold, saying to those present, "Did ye everhear a more wondrous tale than that of my Hunchback?" Thereuponthe Nazarene broker came forward and said, "O King of the age,with thy leave I will tell thee a thing which happened to myselfand which is still more wondrous and marvellous and pleasurableand delectable than the tale of the Hunchback." Quoth the King"Tell us what thou hast to say!" So he began in these words