Once upon a time there lived a great king who had a wife and one sonwhom he loved very much. The boy was still young when, one day, the kingsaid to his wife: 'I feel that the hour of my death draws near, and Iwant you to promise that you will never take another husband but willgive up your life to the care of our son.'The queen burst into tears at these words, and sobbed out that she wouldnever, never marry again, and that her son's welfare should be her firstthought as long as she lived. Her promise comforted the troubled heartof the king, and a few days after he died, at peace with himself andwith the world.But no sooner was the breath out of his body, than the queen said toherself, 'To promise is one thing, and to keep is quite another.' Andhardly was the last spadeful of earth flung over the coffin than shemarried a noble from a neighbouring country, and got him made kinginstead of the young prince. Her new husband was a cruel, wicked man,who treated his stepson very badly, and gave him scarcely anything toeat, and only rags to wear. and he would certainly have killed the boybut for fear of the people.Now by the palace grounds there ran a brook, but instead of being awater brook it was a milk brook, and both rich and poor flocked to itdaily and drew as much milk as they chose. The first thing the new kingdid when he was seated on the throne, was to forbid anyone to go nearthe brook, on pain of being seized by the watchmen. And this was purelyspite, for there was plenty of milk for everybody.For some days no one dared venture near the banks of the stream, but atlength some of the watchmen noticed that early in the mornings, just atdawn, a man with a gold beard came down to the brook with a pail, whichhe filled up to the brim with milk, and then vanished like smoke beforethey could get near enough to see who he was. So they went and told theking what they had seen.At first the king would not believe their story, but as they persistedit was quite true, he said that he would go and watch the stream thatnight himself. With the earliest streaks of dawn the gold bearded manappeared, and filled his pail as before. Then in an instant he hadvanished, as if the earth had swallowed him up.The king stood staring with eyes and mouth open at the place where theman had disappeared. He had never seen him before, that was certain. butwhat mattered much more was how to catch him, and what should be donewith him when he was caught? He would have a cage built as a prison forhim, and everyone would talk of it, for in other countries thieves wereput in prison, and it was long indeed since any king had used a cage. Itwas all very well to plan, and even to station a watchman behind everybush, but it was of no use, for the man was never caught. They wouldcreep up to him softly on the grass, as he was stooping to fill hispail, and just as they stretched out their hands to seize him, hevanished before their eyes. Time after time this happened, till the kinggrew mad with rage, and offered a large reward to anyone who could tellhim how to capture his enemy.The first person that came with a scheme was an old soldier who promisedthe king that if he would only put some bread and bacon and a flask ofwine on the bank of the stream, the gold bearded man would be sure toeat and drink, and they could shake some powder into the wine, whichwould send him to sleep at once. After that there was nothing to do butto shut him in the cage.This idea pleased the king, and he ordered bread and bacon and a flaskof drugged wine to be placed on the bank of the stream, and the watchersto be redoubled. Then, full of hope, he awaited the result.Everything turned out just as the soldier had said. Early next morningthe gold bearded man came down to the brook, ate, drank, and fell soundasleep, so that the watchers easily bound him, and carried him off tothe palace. In a moment the king had him fast in the golden cage, andshowed him, with ferocious joy, to the strangers who were visiting hiscourt. The poor captive, when he awoke from his drunken sleep, triedto talk to them, but no one would listen to him, so he shut himself upaltogether, and the people who came to stare took him for a dumb man ofthe woods. He wept and moaned to himself all day, and would hardly touchfood, though, in dread that he should die and escape his tormentors, theking ordered his head cook to send him dishes from the royal table.The gold bearded man had been in captivity about a month, when the kingwas forced to make war upon a neighbouring country, and left the palace,to take command of his army. But before he went he called his stepson tohim and said:'Listen, boy, to what I tell you. While I am away I trust the care of myprisoner to you. See that he has plenty to eat and drink, but be carefulthat he does not escape, or even walk about the room. If I return andfind him gone, you will pay for it by a terrible death.'The young prince was thankful that his stepfather was going to the war,and secretly hoped he might never come back. Directly he had riddenoff the boy went to the room where the cage was kept, and never left itnight and day. He even played his games beside it.One day he was shooting at a mark with a silver bow. one of his arrowsfell into the golden cage.'Please give me my arrow,' said the prince, running up to him. but thegold bearded man answered:'No, I shall not give it to you unless you let me out of my cage.''I may not let you out,' replied the boy, 'for if I do my stepfathersays that I shall have to die a horrible death when he returns from thewar. My arrow can be of no use to you, so give it to me.'The man handed the arrow through the bars, but when he had done so hebegged harder than ever that the prince would open the door and sethim free. Indeed, he prayed so earnestly that the prince's heart wastouched, for he was a tender hearted boy who pitied the sorrows of otherpeople. So he shot back the bolt, and the gold bearded man stepped outinto the world.'I will repay you a thousand fold for that good deed.' said the man, andthen he vanished. The prince began to think what he should say to theking when he came back. then he wondered whether it would be wise towait for his stepfather's return and run the risk of the dreadful deathwhich had been promised him. 'No,' he said to himself, 'I am afraid tostay. Perhaps the world will be kinder to me than he has been.'Unseen he stole out when twilight fell, and for many days he wanderedover mountains and through forests and valleys without knowing where hewas going or what he should do. He had only the berries for food, when,one morning, he saw a wood pigeon sitting on a bough. In an instant hehad fitted an arrow to his bow, and was taking aim at the bird, thinkingwhat a good meal he would make off him, when his weapon fell to theground at the sound of the pigeon's voice:'Do not shoot, I implore you, noble prince! I have two little sons athome, and they will die of hunger if I am not there to bring them food.'And the young prince had pity, and unstrung his bow.'Oh, prince, I will repay your deed of mercy, said the gratefulwood pigeon.'Poor thing! how can you repay me?' asked the prince.'You have forgotten,' answered the wood pigeon, 'the proverb that runs,"mountain and mountain can never meet, but one living creature canalways come across another."' The boy laughed at this speech and wenthis way.By and by he reached the edge of a lake, and flying towards some rusheswhich grew near the shore he beheld a wild duck. Now, in the days thatthe king, his father, was alive, and he had everything to eat he couldpossibly wish for, the prince always had wild duck for his birthdaydinner, so he quickly fitted an arrow to his bow and took a careful aim.'Do not shoot, I pray you, noble prince!' cried the wild duck. 'I havetwo little sons at home. they will die of hunger if I am not there tobring them food.'And the prince had pity, and let fall his arrow and unstrung his bow.'Oh, prince! I will repay your deed of mercy,' exclaimed the gratefulwild duck.'You poor thing! how can you repay me?' asked the prince.'You have forgotten,' answered the wild duck, 'the proverb that runs,"mountain and mountain can never meet, but one living creature canalways come across another."' The boy laughed at this speech and wenthis way.He had not wandered far from the shores of the lake, when he noticed astork standing on one leg, and again he raised his bow and prepared totake aim.'Do not shoot, I pray you, noble prince,' cried the stork. 'I have twolittle sons at home. they will die of hunger if I am not there to bringthem food.'Again the prince was filled with pity, and this time also he did notshoot.'Oh, prince, I will repay your deed of mercy,' cried the stork.'You poor stork! how can you repay me?' asked the prince.'You have forgotten,' answered the stork, 'the proverb that runs,"mountain and mountain can never meet, but one living creature canalways come across another."'The boy laughed at hearing these words again, and walked slowly on. Hehad not gone far, when he fell in with two discharged soldiers.'Where are you going, little brother?' asked one.'I am seeking work,' answered the prince.'So are we,' replied the soldier. 'We can all go together.'The boy was glad of company and they went on, and on, and on, throughseven kingdoms, without finding anything they were able to do. At lengththey reached a palace, and there was the king standing on the steps.'You seem to be looking for something,' said he.'It is work we want,' they all answered.So the king told the soldiers that they might become his coachmen. buthe made the boy his companion, and gave him rooms near his own. Thesoldiers were dreadfully angry when they heard this, for of course theydid not know that the boy was really a prince. and they soon began tolay their heads together to plot his ruin.Then they went to the king.'Your Majesty,' they said, 'we think it our duty to tell you that yournew companion has boasted to us that if he were only your steward hewould not lose a single grain of corn out of the storehouses. Now, ifyour Majesty would give orders that a sack of wheat should be mixed withone of barley, and would send for the youth, and command him to separatethe grains one from another, in two hours' time, you would soon see whathis talk was worth.'The king, who was weak, listened to what these wicked men had told him,and desired the prince to have the contents of the sack piled into twoheaps by the time that he returned from his council. 'If you succeed,'he added, 'you shall be my steward, but if you fail, I will put you todeath on the spot.'The unfortunate prince declared that he had never made any such boast aswas reported. but it was all in vain. The king did not believe him, andturning him into an empty room, bade his servants carry in the huge sackfilled with wheat and barley, and scatter them in a heap on the floor.The prince hardly knew where to begin, and indeed if he had had athousand people to help him, and a week to do it in, he could never havefinished his task. So he flung himself on the ground in despair, andcovered his face with his hands.While he lay thus, a wood pigeon flew in through the window.'Why are you weeping, noble prince?' asked the wood pigeon.'How can I help weeping at the task set me by the king. For he says, ifI fail to do it, I shall die a horrible death.''Oh, there is really nothing to cry about,' answered the wood pigeonsoothingly. 'I am the king of the wood pigeons, whose life you sparedwhen you were hungry. And now I will repay my debt, as I promised.' Sosaying he flew out of the window, leaving the prince with some hope inhis heart.In a few minutes he returned, followed by a cloud of wood pigeons, sodense that it seemed to fill the room. Their king showed them what theyhad to do, and they set to work so hard that the grain was sorted intotwo heaps long before the council was over. When the king came backhe could not believe his eyes. but search as he might through thetwo heaps, he could not find any barley among the wheat, or any wheatamongst the barley. So he praised the prince for his industry andcleverness, and made him his steward at once.This made the two soldiers more envious still, and they began to hatchanother plot.'Your Majesty,' they said to the king, one day, as he was standing onthe steps of the palace, 'that fellow has been boasting again, that ifhe had the care of your treasures not so much as a gold pin should everbe lost. Put this vain fellow to the proof, we pray you, and throw thering from the princess's finger into the brook, and bid him find it. Weshall soon see what his talk is worth.'And the foolish king listened to them, and ordered the prince to bebrought before him.'My son,' he said, 'I have heard that you have declared that if I madeyou keeper of my treasures you would never lose so much as a gold pin.Now, in order to prove the truth of your words, I am going to throw thering from the princess's finger into the brook, and if you do not findit before I come back from council, you will have to die a horribledeath.'It was no use denying that he had said anything of the kind. The kingdid not believe him. in fact he paid no attention at all, and hurriedoff, leaving the poor boy speechless with despair in the corner.However, he soon remembered that though it was very unlikely that heshould find the ring in the brook, it was impossible that he should findit by staying in the palace.For some time the prince wandered up and down peering into the bottom ofthe stream, but though the water was very clear, nothing could he see ofthe ring. At length he gave it up in despair, and throwing himself downat the foot of the tree, he wept bitterly.'What is the matter, dear prince?' said a voice just above him, andraising his head, he saw the wild duck.'The king of this country declares I must die a horrible death if Icannot find the princess's ring which he has thrown into the brook,'answered the prince.'Oh, you must not vex yourself about that, for I can help you,' repliedthe bird. 'I am the king of the wild ducks, whose life you spared,and now it is my turn to save yours.' Then he flew away, and in a fewminutes a great flock of wild ducks were swimming all up and down thestream looking with all their might, and long before the king came backfrom his council there it was, safe on the grass beside the prince.At this sight the king was yet more astonished at the cleverness of hissteward, and at once promoted him to be the keeper of his jewels.Now you would have thought that by this time the king would have beensatisfied with the prince, and would have left him alone. but people'snatures are very hard to change, and when the two envious soldierscame to him with a new falsehood, he was as ready to listen to them asbefore.'Gracious Majesty,' said they, 'the youth whom you have made keeper ofyour jewels has declared to us that a child shall be born in the palacethis night, which will be able to speak every language in the world andto play every instrument of music. Is he then become a prophet, or amagician, that he should know things which have not yet come to pass?'At these words the king became more angry than ever. He had tried tolearn magic himself, but somehow or other his spells would never work,and he was furious to hear that the prince claimed a power that he didnot possess. Stammering with rage, he ordered the youth to be broughtbefore him, and vowed that unless this miracle was accomplished he wouldhave the prince dragged at a horse's tail until he was dead.In spite of what the soldiers had said, the boy knew no more magic thanthe king did, and his task seemed more hopeless than before. He layweeping in the chamber which he was forbidden to leave, when suddenly heheard a sharp tapping at the window, and, looking up, he beheld a stork.'What makes you so sad, prince?' asked he.'Someone has told the king that I have prophesied that a child shall beborn this night in the palace, who can speak all the languages in theworld and play every musical instrument. I am no magician to bring thesethings to pass, but he says that if it does not happen he will have medragged through the city at a horse's tail till I die.''Do not trouble yourself,' answered the stork. 'I will manage to findsuch a child, for I am the king of the storks whose life you spared, andnow I can repay you for it.'The stork flew away and soon returned carrying in his beak a babywrapped in swaddling clothes, and laid it down near a lute. In aninstant the baby stretched out its little hands and began to play a tuneso beautiful that even the prince forgot his sorrows as he listened.Then he was given a flute and a zither, but he was just as well ableto draw music from them. and the prince, whose courage was graduallyrising, spoke to him in all the languages he knew. The baby answered himin all, and no one could have told which was his native tongue!The next morning the king went straight to the prince's room, and sawwith his own eyes the wonders that baby could do. 'If your magic canproduce such a baby,' he said, 'you must be greater than any wizard thatever lived, and shall have my daughter in marriage.' And, being a king,and therefore accustomed to have everything the moment he wanted it,he commanded the ceremony to be performed without delay, and a splendidfeast to be made for the bride and bridegroom. When it was over, he saidto the prince:'Now that you are really my son, tell me by what arts you were able tofulfil the tasks I set you?''My noble father in law,' answered the prince, 'I am ignorant of allspells and arts. But somehow I have always managed to escape the deathwhich has threatened me.' And he told the king how he had been forced torun away from his stepfather, and how he had spared the three birds, andhad joined the two soldiers, who had from envy done their utmost to ruinhim.The king was rejoiced in his heart that his daughter had married aprince, and not a common man, and he chased the two soldiers away withwhips, and told them that if they ever dared to show their faces acrossthe borders of his kingdom, they should die the same death he hadprepared for the prince.