"This," said old Peter, "is a story against wanting more than enough."Long ago, near the shore of the blue sea, an old man lived with hisold woman in a little old hut made of earth and moss and logs. Theynever had a rouble to spend. A rouble! they never had a kopeck. Theyjust lived there in the little hut, and the old man caught fish out ofthe sea in his old net, and the old woman cooked the fish. and sothey lived, poorly enough in summer and worse in winter. Sometimesthey had a few fish to sell, but not often. In the summer eveningsthey sat outside their hut on a broken old bench, and the old manmended the holes in his ragged old net. There were holes in it a harecould jump through with his ears standing, let alone one of thoselittle fishes that live in the sea. The old woman sat on the benchbeside him, and patched his trousers and complained.Well, one day the old man went fishing, as he always did. All day longhe fished, and caught nothing. And then in the evening, when he wasthinking he might as well give up and go home, he threw his net forthe last time, and when he came to pull it in he began to think he hadcaught an island instead of a haul of fish, and a strong and livelyisland at that the net was so heavy and pulled so hard against hisfeeble old arms."This time," says he, "I have caught a hundred fish at least."Not a bit of it. The net came in as heavy as if it were full offighting fish, but empty   ."Empty?" said Maroosia."Well, not quite empty," said old Peter, and went on with his tale.Not quite empty, for when the last of the net came ashore there wassomething glittering in it a golden fish, not very big and not verylittle, caught in the meshes. And it was this single golden fish whichhad made the net so heavy.The old fisherman took the golden fish in his hands."At least it will be enough for supper," said he.But the golden fish lay still in his hands, and looked at him withwise eyes, and spoke yes, my dears, it spoke, just as if it were youor I."Old man," says the fish, "do not kill me. I beg you throw me backinto the blue waters. Some day I may be able to be of use to you.""What?" says the old fisherman. "and do you talk with a human voice?""I do," says the fish. "And my fish's heart feels pain like yours. Itwould be as bitter to me to die as it would be to yourself.""And is that so?" says the old fisherman. "Well, you shall not diethis time." And he threw the golden fish back into the sea.You would have thought the golden fish would have splashed with histail, and turned head downwards, and swum away into the blue depths ofthe sea. Not a bit of it. It stayed there with its tail slowlyflapping in the water so as to keep its head up, and it looked at thefisherman with its wise eyes, and it spoke again."You have given me my life," says the golden fish. "Now ask anythingyou wish from me, and you shall have it."The old fisherman stood there on the shore, combing his beard with hisold fingers, and thinking. Think as he would, he could not call tomind a single thing he wanted."No, fish," he said at last. "I think I have everything I need,""Well, if ever you do want anything, come and ask for it," says thefish, and turns over, flashing gold, and goes down into the blue sea.The old fisherman went back to his hut, where his wife was waiting forhim."What!" she screamed out. "you haven't caught so much as one littlefish for our supper?""I caught one fish, mother," says the old man: "a golden fish it was,and it spoke to me. and I let it go, and it told me to ask foranything I wanted.""And what did you ask for? Show me.""I couldn't think of anything to ask for. so I did not ask foranything at all.""Fool," says his wife, "and dolt, and us with no food to put in ourmouths. Go back at once, and ask for some bread."Well, the poor old fisherman got down his net, and tramped back to theseashore. And he stood on the shore of the wide blue sea, and hecalled out, "Head in air and tail in sea,Fish, fish, listen to me."And in a moment there was the golden fish with his head out of thewater, flapping his tail below him in the water, and looking at thefisherman with his wise eyes."What is it?" said the fish."Be so kind," says the fisherman. "be so kind. We have no bread in thehouse.""Go home," says the fish, and turned over and went down into the sea."God be good to me," says the old fisherman. "but what shall I say tomy wife, going home like this without the bread?" And he went homevery wretchedly, and slower than he came.As soon as he came within sight of his hut he saw his wife, and shewas waving her arms and shouting."Stir your old bones," she screamed out. "It's as fine a loaf as everI've seen."And he hurried along, and found his old wife cutting up a huge loaf ofwhite bread, mind you, not black a huge loaf of white bread, nearlyas big as Maroosia."You did not do so badly after all," said his old wife as they satthere with the samovar on the table between them, dipping their breadin the hot tea.But that night, as they lay sleeping on the stove, the old woman pokedthe old man in the ribs with her bony elbow. He groaned and woke up."I've been thinking," says his wife, "your fish might have given us atrough to keep the bread in while he was about it. There is a lot leftover, and without a trough it will go bad, and not be fit foranything. And our old trough is broken. besides, it's too small.First thing in the morning off you go, and ask your fish to give us anew trough to put the bread in."Early in the morning she woke the old man again, and he had to get upand go down to the seashore. He was very much afraid, because hethought the fish would not take it kindly. But at dawn, just as thered sun was rising out of the sea, he stood on the shore, and calledout in his windy old voice, "Head in air and tail in sea,Fish, fish, listen to me."And there in the morning sunlight was the golden fish, looking at himwith its wise eyes."I beg your pardon," says the old man, "but could you, just to obligemy wife, give us some sort of trough to put the bread in?""Go home," says the fish. and down it goes into the blue sea.The old man went home, and there, outside the hut, was the old woman,looking at the handsomest bread trough that ever was seen on earth.Painted it was, with little flowers, in three colours, and there werestrips of gilding about its handles."Look at this," grumbled the old woman. "This is far too fine a troughfor a tumbledown hut like ours. Why, there is scarcely a place in theroof where the rain does not come through. If we were to keep thistrough in such a hut, it would be spoiled in a month. You must go backto your fish and ask it for a new hut.""I hardly like to do that," says the old man."Get along with you," says his wife. "If the fish can make a troughlike this, a hut will be no trouble to him. And, after all, you mustnot forget he owes his life to you.""I suppose that is true," says the old man. but he went back to theshore with a heavy heart. He stood on the edge of the sea and calledout, doubtfully, "Head in air and tail in sea,Fish, fish, listen to me."Instantly there was a ripple in the water, and the golden fish waslooking at him with its wise eyes."Well?" says the fish."My old woman is so pleased with the trough that she wants a new hutto keep it in, because ours, if you could only see it, is reallyfalling to pieces, and the rain comes in and   .""Go home," says the fish.The old fisherman went home, but he could not find his old hut at all.At first he thought he had lost his way. But then he saw his wife. Andshe was walking about, first one way and then the other, looking atthe finest hut that God ever gave a poor moujik to keep him from therain and the cold, and the too great heat of the sun. It was built ofsound logs, neatly finished at the ends and carved. And theoverhanging of the roof was cut in patterns, so neat, so pretty, youcould never think how they had been done. The old woman looked at itfrom all sides. And the old man stood, wondering. Then they went intogether. And everything within the hut was new and clean. There werea fine big stove, and strong wooden benches, and a good table, and afire lit in the stove, and logs ready to put in, and a samovar alreadyon the boil a fine new samovar of glittering brass.You would have thought the old woman would have been satisfied withthat. Not a bit of it."You don't know how to lift your eyes from the ground," says she. "Youdon't know what to ask. I am tired of being a peasant woman and amoujik's wife. I was made for something better. I want to be a lady,and have good people to do the work, and see folk bow and curtsy to mewhen I meet them walking abroad. Go back at once to the fish, you oldfool, and ask him for that, instead of bothering him for littletrifles like bread troughs and moujiks' huts. Off with you."The old fisherman went back to the shore with a sad heart. but he wasafraid of his wife, and he dared not disobey her. He stood on theshore, and called out in his windy old voice, "Head in air and tail in sea,Fish, fish, listen to me."Instantly there was the golden fish looking at him with its wise eyes."Well?" says the fish."My old woman won't give me a moment's peace," says the old man. "andsince she has the new hut which is a fine one, I must say. as good ahut as ever I saw she won't be content at all. She is tired of beinga peasant's wife, and wants to be a lady with a house and servants,and to see the good folk curtsy to her when she meets them walkingabroad.""Go home," says the fish.The old man went home, thinking about the hut, and how pleasant itwould be to live in it, even if his wife were a lady.But when he got home the hut had gone, and in its place there was afine brick house, three stories high. There were servants running thisway and that in the courtyard. There was a cook in the kitchen, andthere was his old woman, in a dress of rich brocade, sitting idle in atall carved chair, and giving orders right and left."Good health to you, wife," says the old man."Ah, you, clown that you are, how dare you call me your wife! Can'tyou see that I'm a lady? Here! Off with this fellow to the stables,and see that he gets a beating he won't forget in a hurry."Instantly the servants seized the old man by the collar and lugged himalong to the stables. There the grooms treated him to such a whippingthat he could hardly stand on his feet. After that the old woman madehim doorkeeper. She ordered that a besom should be given him to cleanup the courtyard, and said that he was to have his meals in thekitchen. A wretched life the old man lived. All day long he wassweeping up the courtyard, and if there was a speck of dirt to be seenin it anywhere, he paid for it at once in the stable under the whipsof the grooms.Time went on, and the old woman grew tired of being only a lady. Andat last there came a day when she sent into the yard to tell the oldman to come before her. The poor old man combed his hair and cleanedhis boots, and came into the house, and bowed low before the oldwoman."Be off with you, you old good for nothing!" says she. "Go and findyour golden fish, and tell him from me that I am tired of being alady. I want to be Tzaritza, with generals and courtiers and men ofstate to do whatever I tell them."The old man went along to the seashore, glad enough to be out of thecourtyard and out of reach of the stablemen with their whips. He cameto the shore, and cried out in his windy old voice, "Head in air and tail in sea,Fish, fish, listen to me."And there was the golden fish looking at him with its wise eyes."What's the matter now, old man?" says the fish."My old woman is going on worse than ever," says the old fisherman."My back is sore with the whips of her grooms. And now she says itisn't enough for her to be a lady. she wants to be a Tzaritza.""Never you worry about it," says the fish. "Go home and praise God."and with that the fish turned over and went down into the sea.The old man went home slowly, for he did not know what his wife woulddo to him if the golden fish did not make her into a Tzaritza.But as soon as he came near he heard the noise of trumpets and thebeating of drums, and there where the fine stone house had been wasnow a great palace with a golden roof. Behind it was a big garden offlowers, that are fair to look at but have no fruit, and before it wasa meadow of fine green grass. And on the meadow was an army ofsoldiers drawn up in squares and all dressed alike. And suddenly thefisherman saw his old woman in the gold and silver dress of a Tzaritzacome stalking out on the balcony with her generals and boyars to holda review of her troops. And the drums beat and the trumpets sounded,and the soldiers cried "Hurrah!" And the poor old fisherman found adark corner in one of the barns, and lay down in the straw.Time went on, and at last the old woman was tired of being Tzaritza.She thought she was made for something better. And one day she said toher chamberlain, "Find me that ragged old beggar who is always hanging about in thecourtyard. Find him, and bring him here."The chamberlain told his officers, and the officers told the servants,and the servants looked for the old man, and found him at last asleepon the straw in the corner of one of the barns. They took some of thedirt off him, and brought him before the Tzaritza, sitting proudly onher golden throne."Listen, old fool!" says she. "Be off to your golden fish, and tell itI am tired of being Tzaritza. Anybody can be Tzaritza. I want to bethe ruler of the seas, so that all the waters shall obey me, and allthe fishes shall be my servants.""I don't like to ask that," said the old man, trembling."What's that?" she screamed at him. "Do you dare to answer theTzaritza? If you do not set off this minute, I'll have your head cutoff and your body thrown to the dogs."Unwillingly the old man hobbled off. He came to the shore, and criedout with a windy, quavering old voice, "Head in air and tail in sea,Fish, fish, listen to me."Nothing happened.The old man thought of his wife, and what would happen to him if shewere still Tzaritza when he came home. Again he called out, "Head in air and tail in sea,Fish, fish, listen to me."Nothing happened, nothing at all.A third time, with the tears running down his face, he called out inhis windy, creaky, quavering old voice, "Head in air and tail in sea,Fish, fish, listen to me."Suddenly there was a loud noise, louder and louder over the sea. Thesun hid itself. The sea broke into waves, and the waves piledthemselves one upon another. The sky and the sea turned black, andthere was a great roaring wind that lifted the white crests of thewaves and tossed them abroad over the waters. The golden fish came upout of the storm and spoke out of the sea."What is it now?" says he, in a voice more terrible than the voice ofthe storm itself."O fish," says the old man, trembling like a reed shaken by the storm,"my old woman is worse than before. She is tired of being Tzaritza.She wants to be the ruler of the seas, so that all the waters shallobey her and all the fishes be her servants."The golden fish said nothing, nothing at all. He turned over and wentdown into the deep seas. And the wind from the sea was so strong thatthe old man could hardly stand against it. For a long time he waited,afraid to go home. but at last the storm calmed, and it grew towardsevening, and he hobbled back, thinking to creep in and hide amongstthe straw.As he came near, he listened for the trumpets and the drums. He heardnothing except the wind from the sea rustling the little leaves ofbirch trees. He looked for the palace. It was gone, and where it hadbeen was a little tumbledown hut of earth and logs. It seemed to theold fisherman that he knew the little hut, and he looked at it withjoy. And he went to the door of the hut, and there was sitting his oldwoman in a ragged dress, cleaning out a saucepan, and singing in acreaky old voice. And this time she was glad to see him, and they satdown together on the bench and drank tea without sugar, because theyhad not any money.They began to live again as they used to live, and the old man grewhappier every day. He fished and fished, and many were the fish thathe caught, and of many kinds. but never again did he catch anothergolden fish that could talk like a human being. I doubt whether hewould have said anything to his wife about it, even if he had caughtone every day."What a horrid old woman!" said Maroosia."I wonder the old fisherman forgave her," said Ivan."I think he might have beaten her a little," said Maroosia. "shedeserved it.""Well," said old Peter, "supposing we could have everything we wantedfor the asking, I wonder how it would be. Perhaps God knew what Hewas doing when He made those golden fishes rare.""Are there really any of them?" asked Vanya."Well, there was once one, anyhow," said old Peter. and then he rolledhis nets neatly together, hung them on the fence, and went into thehut to make the dinner. And Vanya and Maroosia went in with him tohelp him as much as they could. though Vanya was wondering all thetime whether he could make a net, and throw it in the little riverwhere old Peter fished, and perhaps pull out a golden fish that wouldspeak to him with the voice of a human being.