In long past times there was a chieftain of a company of mice who had aretinue of five hundred mice. And there was also a cat named Agnija. Inhis youth he had been wont to kill all the mice in the neighborhood of hisdwelling place. But afterward, when he had grown old, and no longer hadthe power of catching mice, he thought, "In former times, when I wasyoung, I was able to catch mice by force. But now that I can do so nomore, I must use some trick in order to make a meal off them." So he beganto watch the mice by stealth. By means of such watching he found out thatthere were five hundred mice in the troop.At a spot not far distant from the mouse hole, he took to performingfictitious acts of penance, and the mice, as they ran to and fro, saw himstanding there with pious mien. So they cried out to him from a distance,"Uncle, what are you doing?"The cat replied, "As in my youth I have perpetrated many viciousactions, I am now doing penance in order to make up for them."The mice fancied that he had given up his sinful life, and there grewup within them confidence nourished by faith.Now as they returned into their hole every day after making theirrounds, the cat always seized on and devoured the mouse which came last.Seeing that the troop was constantly dwindling, the chief thought, "Theremust be some cause for the fact that my mice are diminishing in number,and this cat is thriving apace."So he began t observe the cat closely. And when he saw that the cat wasfat and well covered with hair, he thought, "There is no doubt that thiscat has killed the mice. Therefore must I bring the matter to the light ofday."Now as he kept careful watch from a hiding place, he saw how the catate up the mouse which went last. Then from afar off he pronounced thisverse:As the uncle's body waxes bigger,but my troop on the contrary becomes smaller,and as he who eats roots and berrieswill not become fat and well covered with hair,this is not a genuine penance,but one performed only for the sake of gain.Because the number of the mice diminished,have you, O Agnija, thrived.