Once there was a king who had great riches, which, when he died, hedivided among his three sons. The two eldest of these lived in riotingand feasting, and thus wasted and squandered their father's wealth tillnothing remained, and they found themselves in want and misery. Theyoungest of the three sons, on the contrary, made good use of hisportion. He married a wife and soon they had a most beautiful daughter,for whom, when she was grown up, he caused a great palace to be builtunderground, and then killed the architect who had built it. Next heshut up his daughter inside, and then sent heralds all over the world tomake known that he who should find the king's daughter should have herto wife. If he were not capable of finding her then he must die.Many young men sought to discover her, but all perished in the attempt.After many had met their death thus, there came a young man, beautifulto behold, and as clever as he was beautiful, who had a great desire toattempt the enterprise. First he went to a herdsman, and begged him tohide him in a sheepskin, which had a golden fleece, and in this disguiseto take him to the king. The shepherd let himself be persuaded so to do,took a skin having a golden fleece, sewed the young man in it, puttingin also food and drink, and so brought him before the king.When the latter saw the golden lamb, he asked the herd: 'Will you sellme this lamb?'But the herd answered: 'No, oh king. I will not sell it. but if you findpleasure therein, I will be willing to oblige you, and I will lend it toyou, free of charge, for three days, after that you must give it back tome.'This the king agreed to do, and he arose and took the lamb to hisdaughter. When he had led it into her palace, and through many rooms,he came to a shut door. Then he called 'Open, Sartara Martara of theearth!' and the door opened of itself. After that they went through manymore rooms, and came to another closed door. Again the king called out:'Open, Sartara Martara of the earth!' and this door opened like theother, and they came into the apartment where the princess dwelt, thefloor, walls, and roof of which were all of silver.When the king had embraced the princess, he gave her the lamb, to hergreat joy. She stroked it, caressed it, and played with it.After a while the lamb got loose, which, when the princess saw, shesaid: 'See, father, the lamb is free.'But the king answered: 'It is only a lamb, why should it not be free?'Then he left the lamb with the princess, and went his way.In the night, however, the young man threw off the skin. When theprincess saw how beautiful he was, she fell in love with him, and askedhim: 'Why did you come here disguised in a sheepskin like that?'Then he answered: 'When I saw how many people sought you, and could notfind you, and lost their lives in so doing, I invented this trick, andso I am come safely to you.'The princess exclaimed: 'You have done well so to do. but you must knowthat your wager is not yet won, for my father will change me and mymaidens into ducks, and will ask you, "Which of these ducks is theprincess?" Then I will turn my head back, and with my bill will clean mywings, so that you may know me.'When they had spent three days together, chatting and caressing oneanother, the herd came back to the king, and demanded his lamb. Then theking went to his daughter to bring it away, which troubled the princessvery much, for she said they had played so nicely together.But the king said: 'I cannot leave it with you, my daughter, for it isonly lent to me.' So he took it away with him, and gave it back to theshepherd.Then the young man threw the skin from off him, and went to the king,saying: 'Sire, I am persuaded I can find your daughter.'When the king saw how handsome he was, he said: 'My lad, I have pity onyour youth. This enterprise has already cost the lives of many, and willcertainly be your death as well.'But the young man answered, 'I accept your conditions, oh king. I willeither find her or lose my head.'Thereupon he went before the king, who followed after him, till theycame to the great door. Then the young man said to the king: 'Speak thewords that it may open.'And the king answered: 'What are the words? Shall I say something likethis: "Shut. shut. shut"?''No,' said he. 'say "Open, Sartara Martara of the earth."'When the king had so said, the door opened of itself, and they wentin, while the king gnawed his moustache in anger. Then they came to thesecond door, where the same thing happened as at the first, and theywent in and found the princess.Then spoke the king and said: 'Yes, truly, you have found the princess.Now I will turn her as well as all her maidens into ducks, and if youcan guess which of these ducks is my daughter, then you shall have herto wife.'And immediately the king changed all the maidens into ducks, and hedrove them before the young man, and said: 'Now show me which is mydaughter.'Then the princess, according to their understanding, began to clean herwings with her bill, and the lad said: 'She who cleans her wings is theprincess.'Now the king could do nothing more but give her to the young man towife, and they lived together in great joy and happiness.(From the German.)