Every year at hay harvesting time a group of little women could be seen bathing in a brook beneath the branches of an alder tree. They splashed about noisily and then hung all kinds of rags and cloths onto the branches to dry. The women were no larger than one year old children.One could observe them from a distance without their taking notice. However, if one approached them, they would cry out and then hurriedly gather up their rags and cloths and disappear into the water.One day a peasant lad, known to be a skilled bird catcher, set a trap in the brush at the side of the brook, and   in truth   he captured one of the little washerwomen. She was wearing a clean white linen dress that reached beneath her knees. Her neatly combed hair fell loosely to her shoulders.Without resisting, she let the lad carry her to his home, where she carefully looked about with her little black eyes. She had scarcely entered main room when she rolled up her sleeves, tied back her dress, and   to the amazement and delight of the householders   began to tidy up the room and to wash the dishes. Then she climbed onto a bench and washed the windows. In short, she worked tirelessly from morning until evening.At twilight a little waterman clung to the wall outside and spoke into the window. The little washerwoman clung to the wall inside and spoke out through the window. They talked intimately, and he asked her to not reveal any of their secrets.When winter approached, the householders thought that they should provide the little washerwoman with some shoes, but she refused to let them measure her foot. Therefore they scattered flour on the floor and measured the little woman's footprints.Well and good.The shoes were finished, and the householders put them on a bench for the little woman so that she could try them on by herself. However, she began sobbing and crying because they had paid her for her service. She picked up the shoes, rolled her sleeves back down, loosened her dress, and rushed away wailing.They never saw her again.This story took place when the mother of a mother was living as a child in her parents' house.