Once upon a time there lived an old cobbler who worked hard at his tradefrom morning till night, and scarcely gave himself a moment to eat. But,industrious as he was, he could hardly buy bread and cheese for himselfand his wife, and they grew thinner and thinner daily.For a long while whey pretended to each other that they had no appetite,and that a few blackberries from the hedges were a great deal nicerthan a good strong bowl of soup. But at length there came a day whenthe cobbler could bear it no longer, and he threw away his last, andborrowing a rod from a neighbour he went out to fish.Now the cobbler was as patient about fishing as he had been aboutcobbling. From dawn to dark he stood on the banks of the little stream,without hooking anything better than an eel, or a few old shoes, thateven he, clever though he was, felt were not worth mending. At lengthhis patience began to give way, and as he undressed one night he said tohimself: 'Well, I will give it one more chance. and if I don't catch afish to morrow, I will go and hang myself.'He had not cast his line for ten minutes the next morning before he drewfrom the river the most beautiful fish he had ever seen in his life.But he nearly fell into the water from surprise, when the fish began tospeak to him, in a small, squeaky voice:'Take me back to your hut and cook me. then cut me up, and sprinkle meover with pepper and salt. Give two of the pieces to your wife, and burytwo more in the garden.'The cobbler did not know what to make of these strange words. but he waswiser than many people, and when he did not understand, he thought itwas well to obey. His children wanted to eat all the fish themselves,and begged their father to tell them what to do with the pieces hehad put aside. but the cobbler only laughed, and told them it was nobusiness of theirs. And when they were safe in bed he stole out andburied the two pieces in the garden.By and by two babies, exactly alike, lay in a cradle, and in the gardenwere two tall plants, with two brilliant shields on the top.Years passed away, and the babies were almost men. They were tired ofliving quietly at home, being mistaken for each other by everybodythey saw, and determined to set off in different directions, to seekadventures.So, one fine morning, the two brothers left the hut, and walked togetherto the place where the great road divided. There they embraced andparted, promising that if anything remarkable had happened to either, hewould return to the cross roads and wait till his brother came.The youth who took the path that ran eastwards arrived presently at alarge city, where he found everybody standing at the doors, wringingtheir hands and weeping bitterly.'What is the matter?' asked he, pausing and looking round. And a manreplied, in a faltering voice, that each year a beautiful girl waschosen by lot to be offered up to a dreadful fiery dragon, who had amother even worse than himself, and this year the lot had fallen ontheir peerless princess.'But where IS the princess?' said the young man once more, and again theman answered him: 'She is standing under a tree, a mile away, waitingfor the dragon.'This time the Knight of the Fish did not stop to hear more, but ranoff as fast as he could, and found the princess bathed in tears, andtrembling from head to foot.She turned as she heard the sound of his sword, and removed herhandkerchief from his eyes.'Fly,' she cried. 'fly while you have yet time, before that monster seesyou.'She said it, and she mean it. yet, when he had turned his back, she feltmore forsaken than before. But in reality it was not more than a fewminutes before he came back, galloping furiously on a horse he hadborrowed, and carrying a huge mirror across its neck.'I am in time, then,' he cried, dismounting very carefully, and placingthe mirror against the trunk of a tree.'Give me your veil,' he said hastily to the princess. And when she hadunwound it from her head he covered the mirror with it.'The moment the dragon comes near you, you must tear off the veil,'cried he. 'and be sure you hide behind the mirror. Have no fear. I shallbe at hand.'He and his horse had scarcely found shelter amongst some rocks, when theflap of the dragon's wings could be plainly heard. He tossed his headwith delight at the sight of her, and approached slowly to the placewhere she stood, a little in front of the mirror. Then, still lookingthe monster steadily in the face, she passed one hand behind her backand snatched off the veil, stepping swiftly behind the tree as she didso.The princess had not known, when she obeyed the orders of the Knight ofthe Fish, what she expected to happen. Would the dragon with snaky locksbe turned to stone, she wondered, like the dragon in an old story hernurse had told her. or would some fiery spark dart from the heart ofthe mirror, and strike him dead? Neither of these things occurred, but,instead, the dragon stopped short with surprise and rage when he saw amonster before him as big and strong as himself. He shook his mane withrage and fury. the enemy in front did exactly the same. He lashed histail, and rolled his red eyes, and the dragon opposite was no whitbehind him. Opening his mouth to its very widest, he gave an awfulroar. but the other dragon only roared back. This was too much, andwith another roar which made the princess shake in her shoes, he flunghimself upon his foe. In an instant the mirror lay at his feet brokeninto a thousand pieces, but as every piece reflected part of himself,the dragon thought that he too had been smashed into atoms.It was the moment for which the Knight of the Fish had watched andwaited, and before the dragon could find out that he was not hurt atall, the young man's lance was down his throat, and he was rolling,dead, on the grass.Oh! what shouts of joy rang through the great city, when the youthcame riding back with the princess sitting behind him, and dragging thehorrible monster by a cord. Everybody cried out that the king must givethe victor the hand of the princess. and so he did, and no one had everseen such balls and feasts and sports before. And when they were allover the young couple went to the palace prepared for them, which was solarge that it was three miles round.The first wet day after their marriage the bridegroom begged the brideto show him all the rooms in the palace, and it was so big and took solong that the sun was shining brightly again before they stepped on tothe roof to see the view.'What castle is that out there,' asked the knight. 'it seems to be madeof black marble?''It is called the castle of Albatroz,' answered the princess. 'It isenchanted, and no one that has tried to enter it has ever come back.'Her husband said nothing, and began to talk of something else. butthe next morning he ordered his horse, took his spear, called hisbloodhound, and set off for the castle.It needed a brave man to approach it, for it made your hair stand onend merely to look at it. it was as dark as the night of a storm, andas silent as the grave. But the Knight of the Fish knew no fear, and hadnever turned his back on an enemy. so he drew out his horn, and blew ablast.The sound awoke all the sleeping echoes in the castle, and was repeatednow loudly, now softly. now near, and now far. But nobody stirred forall that.'Is there anyone inside?' cried the young man in his loudest voice.'anyone who will give a knight hospitality? Neither governor, norsquire, not even a page?''Not even a page!' answered the echoes. But the young man did not heedthem, and only struck a furious blow at the gate.Then a small grating opened, and there appeared the tip of a huge nose,which belonged to the ugliest old woman that ever was seen.'What do you want?' said she.'To enter,' he answered shortly. 'Can I rest here this night? Yes orNo?''No, No, No!' repeated the echoes.Between the fierce sun and his anger at being kept waiting, the Knightof the Fish had grown so hot that he lifted his visor, and when the oldwoman saw how handsome he was, she began fumbling with the lock of thegate.'Come in, come in,' said she, 'so fine a gentleman will do us no harm.''Harm!' repeated the echoes, but again the young man paid no heed.'Let us go in, ancient dame,' but she interrupted him.'You must call me the Lady Berberisca,' she answered, sharply. 'and thisis my castle, to which I bid you welcome. You shall live here with meand be my husband.' But at these words the knight let his spear fall, sosurprised was he.'I marry YOU? why you must be a hundred at least!' cried he. 'You aremad! All I desire is to inspect the castle and then go.' As he spoke heheard the voices give a mocking laugh. but the old woman took no notice,and only bade the knight follow her.Old though she was, it seemed impossible to tire her. There was no room,however small, she did not lead him into, and each room was full ofcurious things he had never seen before.At length they came to a stone staircase, which was so dark that youcould not see your hand if you held it up before your face.'I have kept my most precious treasure till the last,' said the oldwoman. 'but let me go first, for the stairs are steep, and you mighteasily break your leg.' So on she went, now and then calling back tothe young man in the darkness. But he did not know that she had slippedaside into a recess, till suddenly he put his foot on a trap door whichgave way under him, and he fell down, down, as many good knights haddone before him, and his voice joined the echoes of theirs.'So you would not marry me!' chuckled the old witch. 'Ha! ha! Ha! ha!'Meanwhile his brother had wandered far and wide, and at last he wanderedback to the same great city where the other young knight had met with somany adventures. He noticed, with amazement, that as he walked throughthe streets the guards drew themselves up in line, and saluted him, andthe drummers played the royal march. but he was still more bewilderedwhen several servants in livery ran up to him and told him that theprincess was sure something terrible had befallen him, and had madeherself ill with weeping. At last it occurred to him that once more hehad been taken for his brother. 'I had better say nothing,' thought he.'perhaps I shall be able to help him after all.'So he suffered himself to be borne in triumph to the palace, where theprincess threw herself into his arms.'And so you did go to the castle?' she asked.'Yes, of course I did,' answered he.'And what did you see there?''I am forbidden to tell you anything about it, until I have returnedthere once more,' replied he.'Must you really go back to that dreadful place?' she asked wistfully.'You are the only man who has ever come back from it.''I must,' was all he answered. And the princess, who was a wise woman,only said: 'Well, go to bed now, for I am sure you must be very tired.'But the knight shook his head. 'I have sworn never to lie in a bed aslong as my work in the castle remains standing.' And the princess againsighed, and was silent.Early next day the young man started for the castle, feeling sure thatsome terrible thing must have happened to his brother.At the blast of his horn the long nose of the old woman appeared at thegrating, but the moment she caught sight of his face, she nearly faintedfrom fright, as she thought it was the ghost of the youth whose boneswere lying in the dungeon of the castle.'Lady of all the ages,' cried the new comer, 'did you not givehospitality to a young knight but a short time ago?''A short time ago!' wailed the voices.'And how have you ill treated him?' he went on.'Ill treated him!' answered the voices. The woman did not stop to hearmore. she turned to fly. but the knight's sword entered her body.'Where is my brother, cruel hag?' asked he sternly.'I will tell you,' said she. 'but as I feel that I am going to die Ishall keep that piece of news to myself, till you have brought me tolife again.'The young man laughed scornfully. 'How do you propose that I should workthat miracle?''Oh, it is quite easy. Go into the garden and gather the flowers of theeverlasting plant and some of dragon's blood. Crush them together andboil them in a large tub of water, and then put me into it.'The knight did as the old witch bade him, and, sure enough, she came outquite whole, but uglier than ever. She then told the young man what hadbecome of his brother, and he went down into the dungeon, and broughtup his body and the bodies of the other victims who lay there, and whenthey were all washed in the magic water their strength was restored tothem.And, besides these, he found in another cavern the bodies of the girlswho had been sacrificed to the dragon, and brought them back to lifealso.As to the old witch, in the end she died of rage at seeing her preyescape her. and at the moment she drew her last breath the castle ofAlbatroz fell into ruins with a great noise.