Just before the world was drowned all the animals gathered in front ofthe Ark and Father Noah carefully inspected them."All ye that lie down shall enter and be saved from the deluge that isabout to destroy the world," he said. "Ye that stand cannot enter."Then the various creatures began to march forward into the Ark. FatherNoah watched them closely. He seemed troubled."I wonder," he said to himself, "how I shall obtain a unicorn, and howI shall get it into the Ark.""I can bring thee a unicorn, Father Noah," he heard in a voice ofthunder, and turning round he saw the giant, Og. "But thou must agreeto save me, too, from the flood.""Begone," cried Noah. "Thou art a demon, not a human being. I can haveno dealings with thee.""Pity me," whined the giant. "See how my figure is shrinking. Once Iwas so tall that I could drink water from the clouds and toast fish atthe sun. I fear not that I shall be drowned, but that all the foodwill be destroyed and that I shall perish of hunger."Noah, however, only smiled. but he grew serious again when Og broughta unicorn. It was as big as a mountain, although the giant said it wasthe smallest he could find. It lay down in front of the Ark and Noahsaw by that action that he must save it. For some time he was puzzledwhat to do, but at last a bright idea struck him. He attached the hugebeast to the Ark by a rope fastened to its horn so that it could swimalongside and be fed.Og seated himself on a mountain near at hand and watched the rainpouring down. Faster and faster it fell in torrents until the riversoverflowed and the waters began to rise rapidly on the land and sweepall things away. Father Noah stood gloomily before the door of the Arkuntil the water reached his neck. Then it swept him inside. The doorclosed with a bang, and the Ark rose gallantly on the flood and beganto move along. The unicorn swam alongside, and as it passed Og, thegiant jumped on to its back."See, Father Noah," he cried, with a huge chuckle, "you will have tosave me after all. I will snatch all the food you put through thewindow for the unicorn."Noah saw that it was useless to argue with Og, who might, indeed, sinkthe Ark with his tremendous strength."I will make a bargain with thee," he shouted from a window. "I willfeed thee, but thou must promise to be a servant to my descendants."Og was very hungry, so he accepted the conditions and devoured hisfirst breakfast.The rain continued to fall in great big sheets that shut out the lightof day. Inside the Ark, however, all was bright and cheerful, for Noahhad collected the most precious of the stones of the earth and hadused them for the windows. Their radiance illumined the whole of thethree stories in the Ark. Some of the animals were troublesome andNoah got no sleep at all. The lion had a bad attack of fever. In acorner a bird slept the whole of the time. This was the phoenix."Wake up," said Noah, one day. "It is feeding time.""Thank you," returned the bird. "I saw thou wert busy, Father Noah,so I would not trouble thee.""Thou art a good bird," said Noah, much touched, "therefore thou shaltnever die."One day the rain ceased, the clouds rolled away and the sun shonebrilliantly again. How strange the world looked! It was like a vastocean. Nothing but water could be seen anywhere, and only one or twoof the highest mountain tops peeped above the flood. All the world wasdrowned, and Noah gazed on the desolate scene from one of the windowswith tears in his eyes. Og, riding gaily on the unicorn behind theArk, was quite happy."Ha, ha!" he laughed gleefully. "I shall be able to eat and drink justas much as I like now and shall never be troubled by those tiny littlecreatures, the mortals.""Be not so sure," said Noah. "Those tiny mortals shall be thy mastersand shall outlive thee and the whole race of giants and demons."The giant did not relish this prospect. He knew that whatever Noahprophesied would come true, and he was so sad that he ate no food fortwo days and began to grow smaller and thinner. He became more andmore unhappy as day by day the water subsided and the mountains beganto appear. At last the Ark rested on Mount Ararat, and Og's long ridecame to an end."I will soon leave thee, Father Noah," he said. "I shall wander roundthe world to see what is left of it.""Thou canst not go until I permit thee," said Noah. "Hast thouforgotten our compact so soon? Thou must be my servant. I have workfor thee."Giants are not fond of work, and Og, who was the father of all thegiants, was particularly lazy. He cared only to eat and sleep, but heknew he was in Noah's power, and he shed bitter tears when he saw theland appear again."Stop," commanded Noah. "Dost thou wish to drown the world once morewith thy big tears?"So Og sat on a mountain and rocked from side to side, weeping silentlyto himself. He watched the animals leave the Ark and had to do all thehard work when Noah's children built houses. Daily he complained thathe was shrinking to the size of the mortals, for Noah said there wasnot too much food.One day Noah said to him, "Come with me, Og. I am going around theworld. I am commanded to plant fruit and flowers to make the earthbeautiful. I need thy help."For many days they wandered all over the earth, and Og was compelledto carry the heavy bag of seeds. The last thing Noah planted was thegrape vine."What is this food, or drink?" asked Og."Both," replied Noah. "It can be eaten, or its juice made into wine,"and as he planted it, he blessed the grape. "Be thou," he said, "aplant pleasing to the eye, bear fruit that will be food for the hungryand a health giving drink to the thirsty and sick."Og grunted."I will offer up sacrifice to this wonderful fruit," he said. "May Inot do so now that our labors are over?"Noah agreed, and the giant brought a sheep, a lion, a pig and amonkey. First, he slaughtered the sheep, then the lion."When a man shall taste but a few drops of the wine," he said, "heshall be as harmless as a sheep. When he takes a little more he shallbe as strong as a lion."Then Og began to dance around the plant, and he killed the pig and themonkey. Noah was very much surprised."I am giving thy descendants two extra blessings," said Og, chuckling.He rolled over and over on the ground in great glee and then said:"When a man shall drink too much of the juice of the wine, then shallhe become a beast like the pig, and if then he still continues todrink, he shall behave foolishly like a monkey."And that is why, unto this day, too much wine makes a man silly.Og himself often drank too much, and many years afterward, when he wasa servant to the patriarch Abraham, the latter scolded him until hebecame so frightened that he dropped a tooth. Abraham made an ivorychair for himself from this tooth. Afterwards Og became King ofBashan, but he forgot his compact with Noah and instead of helping theIsraelites to obtain Canaan he opposed them."I will kill them all with one blow," he declared.Exerting all his enormous strength he uprooted a mountain, and raisingit high above his head he prepared to drop it on the camp of theIsraelites and crush it.But a wonderful thing happened. The mountain was full of grasshoppersand ants who had bored millions of tiny holes in it. When King Ograised the great mass it crumbled in his hands and fell over his headand round his neck like a collar. He tried to pull it off, but histeeth became entangled in the mass. As he danced about in rage andpain, Moses, the leader of the Israelites, approached him.Moses was a tiny man compared with Og. He was only ten ells high, andhe carried with him a sword of the same length. With a mighty efforthe jumped ten ells into the air, and raising the sword, he managed tostrike the giant on the ankle and wound him mortally.Thus, after many years, did the terrible giant of the flood perish forbreaking his word to Father Noah.