Long, long ago there lived in Kyoto a brave soldier named Kintoki. Nowhe fell in love with a beautiful lady and married her. Not long afterthis, through the malice of some of his friends, he fell into disgraceat Court and was dismissed. This misfortune so preyed upon his mindthat he did not long survive his dismissal he died, leaving behind himhis beautiful young wife to face the world alone. Fearing her husband'senemies, she fled to the Ashigara Mountains as soon as her husband wasdead, and there in the lonely forests where no one ever came exceptwoodcutters, a little boy was born to her. She called him Kintaro orthe Golden Boy. Now the remarkable thing about this child was his greatstrength, and as he grew older he grew stronger and stronger, so thatby the time he was eight years of age he was able to cut down trees asquickly as the woodcutters. Then his mother gave him a large ax, and heused to go out in the forest and help the woodcutters, who called him"Wonder child," and his mother the "Old Nurse of the Mountains," forthey did not know her high rank. Another favorite pastime of Kintaro'swas to smash up rocks and stones. You can imagine how strong he was!Quite unlike other boys, Kintaro, grew up all alone in the mountainwilds, and as he had no companions he made friends with all the animalsand learned to understand them and to speak their strange talk. Bydegrees they all grew quite tame and looked upon Kintaro as theirmaster, and he used them as his servants and messengers. But hisspecial retainers were the bear, the deer, the monkey and the hare.The bear often brought her cubs for Kintaro to romp with, and when shecame to take them home Kintaro would get on her back and have a ride toher cave. He was very fond of the deer too, and would often put hisarms round the creature's neck to show that its long horns did notfrighten him. Great was the fun they all had together.One day, as usual, Kintaro went up into the mountains, followed by thebear, the deer, the monkey, and the hare. After walking for some timeup hill and down dale and over rough roads, they suddenly came out upona wide and grassy plain covered with pretty wild flowers.Here, indeed, was a nice place where they could all have a good romptogether. The deer rubbed his horns against a tree for pleasure, themonkey scratched his back, the hare smoothed his long ears, and thebear gave a grunt of satisfaction.Kintaro said, "Here is a place for a good game. What do you all say toa wrestling match?"The bear being the biggest and the oldest, answered for the others:"That will be great fun," said she. "I am the strongest animal, so Iwill make the platform for the wrestlers." and she set to work with awill to dig up the earth and to pat it into shape."All right," said Kintaro, "I will look on while you all wrestle witheach other. I shall give a prize to the one who wins in each round.""What fun! we shall all try to get the prize," said the bear.The deer, the monkey and the hare set to work to help the bear raisethe platform on which they were all to wrestle. When this was finished,Kintaro cried out:"Now begin! the monkey and the hare shall open the sports and the deershall be umpire. Now, Mr. Deer, you are to be umpire!""He, he!" answered the deer. "I will be umpire. Now, Mr. Monkey and Mr.Hare, if you are both ready, please walk out and take your places onthe platform."Then the monkey and the hare both hopped out, quickly and nimbly, tothe wrestling platform. The deer, as umpire, stood between the two andcalled out:"Red back! Red back!" (this to the monkey, who has a red back inJapan). "Are you ready?"Then he turned to the hare:"Long ears! Long ears! are you ready?"Both the little wrestlers faced each other while the deer raised a leafon high as signal. When he dropped the leaf the monkey and the harerushed upon each other, crying "Yoisho, yoisho!"While the monkey and the hare wrestled, the deer called outencouragingly or shouted warnings to each of them as the hare or themonkey pushed each other near the edge of the platform and were indanger of falling over."Red back! Red back! stand your ground!" called out the deer."Long ears! Long ears! be strong, be strong don't let the monkey beatyou!" grunted the bear.So the monkey and the hare, encouraged by their friends, tried theirvery hardest to beat each other. The hare at last gained on the monkey.The monkey seemed to trip up, and the hare giving him a good push senthim flying off the platform with a bound.The poor monkey sat up rubbing his back, and his face was very long ashe screamed angrily. "Oh, oh! how my back hurts my back hurts me!"Seeing the monkey in this plight on the ground, the deer holding hisleaf on high said:"This round is finished the hare has won."Kintaro then opened his luncheon box and taking out a rice dumpling,gave it to the hare saying:"Here is your prize, and you have earned, it well!"Now the monkey got up looking very cross, and as they say in Japan "hisstomach stood up," for he felt that he had not been fairly beaten. Sohe said to Kintaro and the others who were standing by:"I have not been fairly beaten. My foot slipped and I tumbled. Pleasegive me another chance and let the hare wrestle with me for anotherround."Then Kintaro consenting, the hare and the monkey began to wrestleagain. Now, as every one knows, the monkey is a cunning animal bynature, and he made up his mind to get the best of the hare this timeif it were possible. To do this, he thought that the best and surestway would be to get hold of the hare's long ear. This he soon managedto do. The hare was quite thrown off his guard by the pain of havinghis long ear pulled so hard, and the monkey seizing his opportunity atlast, caught hold of one of the hare's legs and sent him sprawling inthe middle of the dais. The monkey was now the victor and received, arice dumpling from Kintaro, which pleased him so much that he quiteforgot his sore back.The deer now came up and asked the hare if he felt ready for anotherround, and if so whether he would try a round with him, and the hareconsenting, they both stood up to wrestle. The bear came forward asumpire.The deer with long horns and the hare with long ears, it must have beenan amusing sight to those who watched this queer match. Suddenly thedeer went down on one of his knees, and the bear with the leaf on highdeclared him beaten. In this way, sometimes the one, sometimes theother, conquering, the little party amused themselves till they weretired.At last Kintaro got up and said:"This is enough for to day. What a nice place we have found forwrestling. let us come again to morrow. Now, we will all go home. Comealong!" So saying, Kintaro led the way while the animals followed.After walking some little distance they came out on the banks of ariver flowing through a valley. Kintaro and his four furry friendsstood and looked about for some means of crossing. Bridge there wasnone. The river rushed "don, don" on its way. All the animals lookedserious, wondering how they could cross the stream and get home thatevening.Kintaro, however, said:"Wait a moment. I will make a good bridge for you all in a few minutes."The bear, the deer, the monkey and the hare looked at him to see whathe would do now.Kintaro went from one tree to another that grew along the river bank.At last he stopped in front of a very large tree that was growing atthe water's edge. He took hold of the trunk and pulled it with all hismight, once, twice, thrice! At the third pull, so great was Kintaro'sstrength that the roots gave way, and "meri, meri" (crash, crash), overfell the tree, forming an excellent bridge across the stream."There," said Kintaro, "what do you think of my bridge? It is quitesafe, so follow me," and he stepped across first. The four animalsfollowed. Never had they seen any one so strong before, and they allexclaimed:"How strong he is! how strong he is!"While all this was going on by the river a woodcutter, who happened tobe standing on a rock overlooking the stream, had seen all that passedbeneath him. He watched with great surprise Kintaro and his animalcompanions. He rubbed his eyes to be sure that he was not dreaming whenhe saw this boy pull over a tree by the roots and throw it across thestream to form a bridge.The woodcutter, for such he seemed to be by his dress, marveled at allhe saw, and said to himself:"This is no ordinary child. Whose son can he be? I will find out beforethis day is done."He hastened after the strange party and crossed the bridge behind them.Kintaro knew nothing of all this, and little guessed that he was beingfollowed. On reaching the other side of the river he and the animalsseparated, they to their lairs in the woods and he to his mother, whowas waiting for him.As soon as he entered the cottage, which stood like a matchbox in theheart of the pine woods, he went to greet his mother, saying:"Okkasan (mother), here I am!""O, Kimbo!" said his mother with a bright smile, glad to see her boyhome safe after the long day. "How late you are to day. I feared thatsomething had happened to you. Where have you been all the time?""I took my four friends, the bear, the deer, the monkey, and the hare,up into the hills, and there I made them try a wrestling match, to seewhich was the strongest. We all enjoyed the sport, and are going to thesame place to morrow to have another match.""Now tell me who is the strongest of all?" asked his mother, pretendingnot to know."Oh, mother," said Kintaro, "don't you know that I am the strongest?There was no need for me to wrestle with any of them.""But next to you then, who is the strongest?""The bear comes next to me in strength," answered Kintaro."And after the bear?" asked his mother again."Next to the bear it is not easy to say which is the strongest, for thedeer, the monkey, and the hare all seem to be as strong as each other,"said Kintaro.Suddenly Kintaro and his mother were startled by a voice from outside."Listen to me, little boy! Next time you go, take this old man with youto the wrestling match. He would like to join the sport too!"It was the old woodcutter who had followed Kintaro from the river. Heslipped off his clogs and entered the cottage. Yama uba and her sonwere both taken by surprise. They looked at the intruder wonderinglyand saw that he was some one they had never seen before."Who are you?" they both exclaimed.Then the woodcutter laughed and said:"It does not matter who I am yet, but let us see who has the strongestarm this boy or myself?"Then Kintaro, who had lived all his life in the forest, answered theold man without any ceremony, saying:"We will have a try if you wish it, but you must not be angry whoeveris beaten."Then Kintaro and the woodcutter both put out their right arms andgrasped each other's hands. For a long time Kintaro and the old manwrestled together in this way, each trying to bend the other's arm, butthe old man was very strong, and the strange pair were evenly matched.At last the old man desisted, declaring it a drawn game."You are, indeed, a very strong child. There are few men who can boastof the strength of my right arm!" said the woodcutter. "I saw you firston the banks of the river a few hours ago, when you pulled up thatlarge tree to make a bridge across the torrent. Hardly able to believewhat I saw I followed you home. Your strength of arm, which I have justtried, proves what I saw this afternoon. When you are full grown youwill surely be the strongest man in all Japan. It is a pity that youare hidden away in these wild mountains."Then he turned to Kintaro's mother:"And you, mother, have you no thought of taking your child to theCapital, and of teaching him to carry a sword as befits a samurai (aJapanese knight)?""You are very kind to take so much interest in my son." replied themother. "but he is as you see, wild and uneducated, and I fear it wouldbe very difficult to do as you say. Because of his great strength as aninfant I hid him away in this unknown part of the country, for he hurtevery one that came near him. I have often wished that I could, oneday, see my boy a knight wearing two swords, but as we have noinfluential friend to introduce us at the Capital, I fear my hope willnever come true.""You need not trouble yourself about that. To tell you the truth I amno woodcutter! I am one of the great generals of Japan. My name isSadamitsu, and I am a vassal of the powerful Lord Minamoto no Raiko. Heordered me to go round the country and look for boys who give promiseof remarkable strength, so that they may be trained as soldiers for hisarmy. I thought that I could best do this by assuming the disguise of awoodcutter. By good fortune, I have thus unexpectedly come across yourson. Now if you really wish him to be a SAMURAI (a knight), I will takehim and present him to the Lord Raiko as a candidate for his service.What do you say to this?"As the kind general gradually unfolded his plan the mother's heart wasfilled with a great joy. She saw that here was a wonderful chance ofthe one wish of her life being fulfilled that of seeing Kintaro aSAMURAI before she died.Bowing her head to the ground, she replied:"I will then intrust my son to you if you really mean what you say."Kintaro had all this time been sitting by his mother's side listeningto what they said. When his mother finished speaking, he exclaimed:"Oh, joy! joy! I am to go with the general and one day I shall be aSAMURAI!"Thus Kintaro's fate was settled, and the general decided to start forthe Capital at once, taking Kintaro with him. It need hardly be saidthat Yama uba was sad at parting with her boy, for he was all that wasleft to her. But she hid her grief with a strong face, as they say inJapan. She knew that it was for her boy's good that he should leave hernow, and she must not discourage him just as he was setting out.Kintaro promised never to forget her, and said that as soon as he was aknight wearing two swords he would build her a home and take care ofher in her old age.All the animals, those he had tamed to serve him, the bear, the deer,the monkey, and the hare, as soon as they found out that he was goingaway, came to ask if they might attend him as usual. When they learnedthat he was going away for good they followed him to the foot of themountain to see him off."Kimbo," said his mother, "mind and be a good boy.""Mr. Kintaro," said the faithful animals, "we wish you good health onyour travels."Then they all climbed a tree to see the last of him, and from thatheight they watched him and his shadow gradually grow smaller andsmaller, till he was lost to sight.The general Sadamitsu went on his way rejoicing at having sounexpectedly found such a prodigy as Kintaro.Having arrived at their destination the general took Kintaro at once tohis Lord, Minamoto no Raiko, and told him all about Kintaro and how hehad found the child. Lord Raiko was delighted with the story, andhaving commanded Kintaro to be brought to him, made him one of hisvassals at once.Lord Raiko's army was famous for its band called "The Four Braves."These warriors were chosen by himself from amongst the bravest andstrongest of his soldiers, and the small and well picked band wasdistinguished throughout the whole of Japan for the dauntless courageof its men.When Kintaro grew up to be a man his master made him the Chief of theFour Braves. He was by far the strongest of them all. Soon after thisevent, news was brought to the city that a cannibal monster had takenup his abode not far away and that people were stricken with fear. LordRaiko ordered Kintaro to the rescue. He immediately started off,delighted at the prospect of trying his sword.Surprising the monster in its den, he made short work of cutting offits great head, which he carried back in triumph to his master.Kintaro now rose to be the greatest hero of his country, and great wasthe power and honor and wealth that came to him. He now kept hispromise and built a comfortable home for his old mother, who livedhappily with him in the Capital to the end of her days.Is not this the story of a great hero?