Once upon a time there was a girl who was supposed to go into the woodsand bring home the cattle, but she could not find the herd. She got lostand came to a large mountain with gates and doors. She went inside. Atable was standing there, set with all kinds of things to eat. There wasalso a bed there, and a large snake was lying on it.It said to the girl,"Have a seat, if you want to. Come and lie down in this bed, if you wantto! But if you don't want to, it's all right!"The girl did not do any ofthis.Finally the snake said, "People are coming now who want to dancewith you, but don't go with them."Soon afterward people did come, andthey wanted to dance with the girl, but she would have nothing to do withthem. Then they began to eat and drink. The girl left the mountain andwent home again. The next day she went into the woods again to look forher herd, but she could not find what she was looking for. Instead, shegot lost again and came to the same mountain. She went inside again andfound everything the same as the first time: a set table and the bed withthe snake.It said to her, as the time before, "Have a seat, if you wantto! Eat, if you want to! Come and lie down in this bed, if you want to!But if you don't want to, it's all right. Now a lot more people are comingwho want to dance with you, but do not go with them."The snake had barelyfinished talking when a lot more people came, and they began to dance andto eat and drink. The girl had nothing to do with them, but instead leftthe mountain and went home.On the third day she went into the woods again, and the same thinghappened to her as on the previous days. The snake invited her to eat anddrink, which she did with a good appetite. After that the snake asked herto lie down next to it, and the girl did that as well.Then the snakesaid, "Hold me in your arm!"She did it."Kiss me!" said the snake. "Ifyou are afraid, just put your apron between us!"The girl did it, and inthat instant the snake turned into a handsome young man. In reality he wasa prince who had been bewitched into this form through magic, but thegirl's courage had saved him. Of course, the two of them went away, andsince then they have never been heard from again.