In the childhood of the world, when Adam named all the animals andruled over them, the dog and the cat were the greatest good friends.They were inseparable chums in their recreations, faithful partners intheir transactions, and devoted comrades in all their adventures,their pleasures and their sorrows. They lived together, shared eachother's food and confided their secrets to none but themselves. Itseemed that no possible difference would ever arise to cause troublebetween them.Then winter came. It was a new experience to them to feel the coldwind cutting through their skins and making them shiver. The dismalprospect of the leafless trees and the hard cold ground weighedheavily upon their hearts, and, worse still, there was less food. Thescarcity grew serious, and hunger plunged them into unhappiness anddespair. Doggie became melancholy, while Pussie grew peevish, thenpetulant, and finally developed a horrid temper."We can't go on like this," moaned the cat. "I think we had betterdissolve partnership. We can't find enough to share when we aretogether, but separately we ought each to discover sufficient foragein our hunting.""I think I can help you, because I am the stronger," said the dog.Pussie did not contradict, but she thought the dog a bit of a fool andtoo good natured. She knew herself to be sly and intended to rely onthat quality for her future sustenance. Doggie was deeply hurt atPussie's desire to end their happy compact, but he said quietly, "Ofcourse, if you insist on parting, I will agree.""It is agreed then," purred Pussie."Where will you go?" asked Doggie."To the house of Adam," promptly replied the cat, who had evidentlymade up her mind. "There are mice there. Adam will be grateful if Iclear them away. I shall have food to eat.""Very well," assented the dog. "I will wander further afield."Then the cat said solemnly: "We must each take an oath never to crossthe other's path. That is the proper way to terminate a businessagreement. The serpent says so, and he is the wisest of all animals."They put their right fore paws together and gravely repeated an oathnever to interfere with each other by going to the same place. Thenthey parted. Doggie trotted off sorrowfully with his head hangingdown. Once he looked back, but Puss did not do so. She scampered offas fast as she could to the house of Adam."Father Adam," she cried, "I have come to be your slave. You aretroubled with mice in the house. I can rid you of them, and I wantnothing else for my services.""Thou art welcome," said Father Adam, stroking Pussie's warm fur.Puss rubbed her head against his feet, purred contentedly, and ran offto look for mice. She found plenty and soon grew fat and comfortable.Adam treated her kindly, and she soon forgot all about her formercomrade.Poor Doggie did not fare so well. Indeed, he had a rough time. Hewandered aimlessly about over the frozen ground and could not find theslightest scrap of food. After three days, weary, paw sore anddispirited, he came to a wolf's lair and begged for shelter. The wolftook pity on him, gave him some scraps of food, and permitted him tosleep in the lair. Doggie was most thankful, and sleeping with hisears on the alert, he heard stealthy footsteps in the night. He toldthe wolf."Drive the intruders away," said his host in a surly tone.Doggie went out obediently to do so. But the marauders were wildanimals and they nearly killed him. He was lucky to escape with hislife. After bathing his wounds at a pool in the early morning hewandered all day long, but again could find nothing. Toward night,when he could scarcely drag his famished and wounded body along, hesaw a monkey in a tree."Kind monkey," he pleaded, "give me shelter for the night. I amexhausted and starving.""Go away, go away, go away," chattered the monkey, jumping andswinging swiftly from branch to branch, moving his lips quickly andopening and shutting his eyes comically. Doggie hesitated, and, tofrighten him away, the monkey pulled cocoanuts from the tree andpelted him.Poor Doggie crawled miserably away."What shall I do?" he moaned.Hearing the bleating of some sheep, he made his way to them and askedthem to take compassion on him."We will," they replied, "if you will keep watch over us and tell uswhen the wolf comes."Doggie agreed willingly, and, after he had devoured some food, hestretched himself to sleep like a faithful watch dog, with one eyeopen.In the middle of the night he heard the wolves approaching, and,anxious to serve the sheep who had treated him kindly, he sprang tohis feet and began to bark loudly. This aroused the sheep, who awokeand started to run in all directions. Some of them ran right into thepack of wolves and were killed and eaten. Poor Doggie was nearlyheart broken."It is my fault, my fault," he wailed. "I barked too soon. Oh, what anunhappy creature I am. I shall keep away from all animals now."Once again he set off on his travels. Whenever he met an animal he ranoff in the opposite direction. He had to make his journey by theloneliest paths and the most unfrequented routes, and the difficultyof finding food grew steadily greater. At last he grew so weak andthin that he hardly had strength to crawl and he had several narrowescapes from falling a prey to ferocious beasts.One night he came to a house and begged a morsel of food. It wasgiven, and during the night he woke the man and warned him that wildanimals were making a raid. The man jumped up, seized his bow andarrow and drove the thieves away. Then he patted Doggie."Good dog," he said. "You are a wise animal. Stay with me always. Youwill find Father Adam kind.""Father Adam!" cried Doggie, in alarm. "I must not stay here.""Nonsense. I say you must," answered Adam, and Doggie was compelled toobey.In the morning, Pussie learned that the dog had joined the householdand she complained to Adam."The dog has violated the oath he swore not to come to the place whereI am," she said."He did not know you were here," said Adam, desirous of maintainingpeace. "He is very useful. I want him to remain. He won't hurt you.There is ample room for both.""No, there isn't," said Puss spitefully, arching up her back andgetting cross. "He broke his oath. He is a wicked creature. You darenot overlook his offense."Poor Doggie stood dejectedly apart, with his tail between his legs."I didn't know it was Adam's house, and I was so hungry and miserableand tired," he said.But Pussie would not be pacified. She thrust out her ugly claws andtried to scratch her former partner. The dog kept out of her way asmuch as possible, but she quarrelled with him at every opportunity,and at last he determined to tolerate her conduct no longer."I must leave you, Father Adam," he said. "Pussie is making my lifeunbearable.""But I want you," said Adam."I'm sorry," said Doggie, firmly, "but it is really impossible for meto continue in your service. I've got another situation at the houseof Seth. He wants me, too.""Won't you make friends with Pussie?" asked Adam."With pleasure, if she will let me, but she won't.""You blame each other," said Adam, losing patience. "I can't make youout. You look like quarrelling for ever."Adam's words have proved true. Ever since that time the cat and doghave failed to agree, and Pussie will never consent to be friendlyagain with Doggie.(: With a cry, he put his fingers in his mouth toease the pain and burned his tongue. (_Page 131_).)