There are a king and a queen of a certain city, and there is a daughterof the queen.They asked permission to summon the daughter to go in marriage to theprince of another city. The king said, "Ha," so they came from that cityto summon the king's princess. After coming, they told the bride to comeout of her chamber in order to eat the rice of the wedding feast.The queen said, "She is eating cooked rice in the house."Then they told her to come out in order to dress her in the robes sentby the bridegroom. The queen said, "She is putting on robes in herchamber."Then they told her to come out in order to go to the bridegroom's city.So the queen told two persons to come, and, having put a female mouselingin an incense box, brought it, and gave it into the hands of the twopersons, and said, "Take this, and until seven days have gone by, do notopen the mouth of the box."Having taken it to the city, when they opened the mouth of the boxafter seven days, a mouse sprang out, and hid itself among the cookingpots.There was also a servant girl at the prince's house. The girlapportioned and gave cooked rice and vegetable curry to the prince, andcovered up the cooking pots containing the rest of the food. Then themouseling came and, having taken and eaten some of the cooked rice andvegetables, covered up the cooking pots, and went again among the pots.On the following day the same thing occurred. The prince said to thegirl, "Does the mouseling eat the cooked rice? Look and come back."The girl, having gone and looked, came back and said, "She has eatenthe cooked rice, and covered the cooking pots, and has gone."The prince said, "Go also, and eat rice, and come back." So the girlwent and ate rice, and returned.Next day the prince said, "I am going to cut paddy (growing rice).Remain at the house, and in the evening place the articles for cookingnear the hearth." Then the prince went. Afterwards, in the evening, thegirl placed the things for cooking near the hearth, and went out of theway.The mouseling came, and cooked, and placed the food ready, and againwent behind the pots. After evening had come, that girl apportioned andgave the rice to the prince. The prince ate, and told the girl, "Go also,and eat rice, and come back." So the girl went and ate rice, and, havingcovered the cooking pots, came to the place where the prince was.Then the mouseling came and ate rice, and covered up the pots. Afterthat, she said to the other mice, "Let us go and cut the paddy," and,collecting a great number of mice, cut all the paddy, and again returnedto the house, and stayed among the pots. Next day when the prince went tothe rice field to cut the paddy, all had been cut.Afterwards the prince came back, and, saying "Let us go and collect andstack the paddy," collected the men, and stacked it, and threshed it bytrampling it with buffaloes. Then they went and called the women, and,having got rid of the chaff in the wind, brought the paddy home.After they had brought it, the prince went near the place where thecooking pots were stored, at which the mouseling was hidden, and said,"Having pounded this paddy to remove the husk, and cooked rice, let us goto your village to present it to your parents as the first fruits."The mouseling said, "I will not. You go."So the prince told the girl to pound the paddy and cook rice, andhaving done this she gave it to the prince.The prince took the package of cooked rice, and went to the mouseling'svillage, and gave it to the mouseling's mother.The queen asked at the hand of the prince, "Where is the girl?"The prince said, "She refused to come."The queen said, "Go back to the city, and, having placed the articlesfor cooking near the hearth, get hid, and stay in the house."After the prince returned to the city, he did as she had told him. Themouseling, having come out, took off her mouse jacket, and, assuming hershape as a girl, put on other clothes. While she was preparing to cook,the prince took the mouse jacket and burnt it.Afterwards, when the girl went to the place where the mouse jacket hadbeen, and looked for it, it was not there. Then she looked in the hearth,and saw that there was one sleeve in it. While she was there weeping andweeping, the prince came forward and said, "Your mother told me to burnthe mouse jacket."So the mouseling became the princess again, and the prince and princessremained there.