Once upon a time there was a hunter. He was very despondent because hiswife had died. He often wandered about in the forest entirely alone,thinking about whether or not he would ever find a second wife whom hecould love as much as he had the first one.One day he wandered ever deeper into the woods, with his gun at hisside and not knowing where he wanted to go. At last he came to a strawhut. Stepping inside, he found there an old man with a crucifix lyingbefore him. He greeted the man, who received him in a friendly manner andasked him what had led him to this forest hut.The hunter told him of his sorrows: that he had lost his wife, that henow lived by himself, and that he did not know if he would ever be happyagain.The old man said to him, "There is help. Three swans will come heresoon. Look at them carefully! After they have flown to the pond, you mustsecretly go there without letting them see you. Take one of their dressesand immediately return here with it."As soon as the old man had spoken, three snow white swans flew towardthe hut. After the hunter saw them, they flew further to a nearby pond.The hunter crept up and secretly took a dress that one of the swans hadtaken off and laid on the bank. Then he returned with it to the old man'shut.When the swans wanted to get dressed again, one of them had only ashift. As a beautiful maiden she came to the hunter, who had her dress,and moved into his house, and became his dear wife.Before the hunter left the old man, the latter said to him, "You mustcarefully hide the swan dress from your wife so that she cannot find itagain."The hunter did this, and he lived with his second wife for fifteenyears. She bore him several children, and the married couple were veryhappy together.Then it happened that one morning the man left, saying to his wife, "Ishall be back at noon to eat."After he had left, the woman watched him until he disappeared into thewoods. Then she went to the attic, which the man had not locked this time,opened the chest containing the swan dress, put it on, and as a swan flewfar, far away.When the man came home to eat, his wife had disappeared. Not even thechildren could say where she was, for they had not seen her.Then the hunter returned to the old man in the woods and told him ofhis misfortune: that once again he had lost his wife, and that he did notknow where she had gone.The old man said, "You did not put the dress away carefully. She foundit and has flown away with it.""Oh," said the hunter sadly, "is it not possible for me to find heragain?""It is possible," said the old man, "but now it is dangerous, and itcould cost you your life."The hunter wanted to do everything for his wife, and so the old mansaid to him, "First you must attempt to get into the castle where yourwife now lives. That will best happen as follows: She has donkeys thatcarry flour from a miller every day. Go to the miller and ask him to hideyou in a flour sack. The rest you will learn from your wife."With that the hunter found his way to the miller and talked him intohiding him in a sack. A donkey carried him a great distance to a splendidcastle.After arriving there he immediately found his wife, and no one couldhave been happier than was she, and she thanked her husband from thebottom of her heart for coming to redeem her.But then she said to him, "Before we can be happy and live together,you must fight with three dragons who are here. They will come to you onthree days and in different forms. They will torment and plague you forone hour each day, and if you withstand this without uttering a sound thenthey cannot further harm you, and I will be free. But if you speak asingle word, they will kill you."Then the hunter promised that he would surely redeem her.On the first day three great snakes came and wrapped themselves aroundthe hunter's feet until he could not move, and they tormented him for anentire hour. Because he endured this in silence they went away withoutharming him.The next day the dragons appeared as turtles and shot balls of fire atthe hunter, until he could no longer withstand it, but he withstood itnonetheless, and he uttered not a sound, so after one hour they left him.On the third day they came again as gigantic snakes and took the hunterwhole into their jaws. He was deathly afraid and thought that he wouldhave to cry out, and that he would no longer be able to withstand it, butout of love for his wife, he withstood it nonetheless.When the three hours had passed, there suddenly stood before him  instead of the three snakes   three noblewomen. These were the threeenchanted swans, whom he had now redeemed. And they remained with him andwith his wife in the castle, and they all lived together in peace andhappiness, and if they have not died, then they must be still alive.