Proud King Hagag sat on his throne in state, and the high priest,standing by his side, read from the Holy Book, as was his dailycustom. He read these words: "For riches are not for ever: and doththe crown endure to every generation?""Cease!" cried the king. "Who wrote those words?""They are the words of the Holy Book," answered the high priest."Give me the book," commanded the king.With trembling hands the high priest placed it before his majesty.King Hagag gazed earnestly at the words that had been read, and hefrowned. Raising his hand, he tore the page from the book and threw itto the ground."I, Hagag, am king," he said, "and all such passages that offend meshall be torn out."He flung the volume angrily from him while the high priest and all hiscourtiers looked on in astonishment."I have heard enough for today," he said. "Too long have I delayed myhunting expedition. Let the horses be got ready."He descended from the throne, stalked haughtily past the tremblingfigure of the high priest, and went forth to the hunt. Soon he wasriding furiously across an open plain toward a forest where a wildstag had been seen. A trumpet sounded the signal that the deer hadbeen driven from its hiding place, and the king urged his horseforward to be the first in the chase. His majesty's steed was theswiftest in the land. Quickly it carried him out of sight of hisnobles and attendants. But the deer was surprisingly fleet and theking could not catch up with it. Coming to a river, the animal plungedin and swam across. Scrambling up the opposite bank its antlers caughtin the branch of a tree, and the king, arriving at the river, gave acry of joy."Now I have thee," he said. Springing from his horse and divestinghimself of his clothing he swam across with naught but a sword.As he reached the opposite bank, however, the deer freed itself fromthe tree and plunged into a thicket. The king, with his sword in hishand, followed quickly, but no deer could he see. Instead, he found,lying on the ground beyond the thicket, a beautiful youth clad in adeer skin. He was panting as if after a long run. The king stood stillin surprise and the youth sprang to his feet."I am the deer," he said. "I am a genii and I have lured thee to thisspot, proud king, to teach thee a lesson for thy words this morning."Before King Hagag could recover from his surprise the youth ran backto the river and swam across. Quickly he dressed himself in the king'sclothes and mounted the horse just as the other hunters came up. Theythought the genii was King Hagag and they halted before him."Let us return," said the genii. "The deer has crossed the river andhas escaped."King Hagag from the thicket on the opposite side watched them rideaway and then flung himself on the ground and wept bitterly. There helay until a wood cutter found him."What do you here?" asked the man."I am King Hagag," returned the monarch."Thou art a fool," said the wood cutter. "Thou art a lazygood for naught to talk so. Come, carry my bundle of sticks and I willgive thee food and an old garment."In vain the king protested. The wood cutter only laughed the more,and at last, losing patience, he beat him and drove him away. Tiredand hungry, and clad only in the rags which the wood cutter had givenhim, King Hagag reached the palace late at night."I am King Hagag," he said to the guards, but roughly they bade himbegone, and after spending a wretched night in the streets of thecity, his majesty, next morning, was glad to accept some bread andmilk offered to him by a poor old woman who took pity on him. He stoodat a street corner not knowing what to do. Little children teased him.others took him for a beggar and offered him money. Later in the dayhe saw the genii ride through the streets on his horse. All the peoplebowed down before him and cried, "Long live the king!""Woe is me," cried Hagag, in his wretchedness. "I am punished for mysin in scoffing at the words of the Holy Book."He saw that it would be useless for him to go to the palace again, andhe went into the fields and tried to earn his bread as a laborer. Hewas not used to work, however, and but for the kindness of the verypoorest he would have died of starvation. He wandered miserably fromplace to place until he fell in with some blind beggars who had beendeserted by their guide. Joyfully he accepted their offer to take theguide's place.Months rolled by, and one morning the royal heralds went forth andannounced that "Good King Hagag" would give a feast a week from thatday to all the beggars in the land.From far and near came beggars in hundreds, to partake of the king'sbounty, and Hagag stood among them, with his blind companions, in thecourtyard of the palace waiting for his majesty to appear. He knew theplace well, and he hung his head and wept."His majesty will speak to each one of you who are his guests today,"cried a herald, and one by one they passed into the palace and stoodbefore the throne. When it came to Hagag's turn, he trembled so muchthat he had to be supported by the guards.The genii on the throne and Hagag looked long at each other."Art thou, too, a beggar?" said the genii."Nay, gracious majesty," answered Hagag with bent head. "I have sinnedgrievously and have been punished. I am but the servant of a troop ofblind beggars to whom I act as guide."The genii king signed to his courtiers that he desired to be leftalone with Hagag. Then he said:"Hagag, I know thee. I see that thou hast repented. It is well. Nowcanst thou resume thy rightful place.""Gracious majesty," said Hagag, "I have learned humility and wisdom.The throne is not for me. The blind beggars need me. Let me remain intheir service.""It cannot be," said the genii. "I see that thou art truly penitent.Thy lesson is learned and my task is done. I will see that the blindbeggars lack not."With his own hands he placed the royal robes on Hagag and himselfdonned those of the beggar. When the courtiers returned they saw nodifference. King Hagag sat on the throne again, and nowhere in thewhole world was there a monarch who ruled more wisely or showed morekindness and sympathy to all his subjects.