Folk Tales and Fairy Lore in Gaelic andEnglishThere was living in Kintalen a woman who had a male child with neitherthe growth nor the bloom of other children of his age. From morning toevening he would not cease one minute from crying, and he would eat farmore food than was natural for the like of him.It was harvest, and there was not a person on the farm who could draw asickle but was out on the reaping field, except the mother of the child.She, too, would have been out were it not for fear that the nastyscreaming thing would break his heart crying, if she should leave him incharge of any other person.It happened that there was at the time a tailor in the house, makingclothes. The tailor was a shrewd, observant man, and he was but a shorttime within until he became suspicious of the lad in the cradle. "You,"said he to the woman, "may go to the reaping, and I will take care of thechild."The woman went away. But she had barely taken her feet over thethreshold when the withered object she had left behind began shriekingand crying loudly and sorely. The tailor listened to him a good while,keeping his eye on him, till he was sure that he was nothing but achangeling. He now lost patience with him, and cried in a sharp, angryvoice: "Stop that music, lad, or I'll put thee on the fire."The crying ceased for a while, but afterwards it began a second time."Art thou at it again, piper of the one tune?" said the tailor. "Let mehear that music any more from thee, and I will kill thee with the dirk."When the fairy beheld the frown on the tailor's countenance and the dirkin his hand, he took such a fright that he kept quiet a good while.The tailor was a cheerful man, and to keep from wearying he began to huma tune. In the middle of the music the ugly elf raised a loud howl. But,if he did, he was not allowed to go on with his warble but a very shorttime. The tailor leaped off his work table, went, dirk in hand, over tothe cradle, and said to the fairy: "We have enough of that music, takethe right great bagpipes and give us one good tune on them, or else I'llput the dirk in thee."The fairy sat up in the cradle, took the pipes which he had somewhereabout him, and struck up the sweetest music the tailor had ever heard.The reapers heard it on the field, and instantly dropped their sicklesand stood listening to the fairy music. At length they left the field,and ran in the direction whence the music came. But before they reachedthe house the tune had ceased. and they knew not who played it or whenceit came.When the reapers returned home in the evening, and the tailor got themistress of the house alone, he told her everything that happened whileshe was at the reaping, and that her child was nothing but a changeling.He then told her to go with him to the Ardsheal side of the bay, and tothrow him out in the Loch. She did as was told her, and as soon as thenasty little elf touched the water he became a big grey haired old man,and swam to the other side of the bay. When he got his foot on dry land,he cried to her that if he had known beforehand what she was going to dohe would have made her never think of doing such a thing again.She returned home and found her own child at the door before her, haleand sound.