Have you ever seen an old wooden cupboard quite black with age,and ornamented with carved foliage and curious figures? Well, justsuch a cupboard stood in a parlor, and had been left to the familyas a legacy by the great grandmother. It was covered from top tobottom with carved roses and tulips. the most curious scrolls weredrawn upon it, and out of them peeped little stags' heads, withantlers. In the middle of the cupboard door was the carved figure of aman most ridiculous to look at. He grinned at you, for no one couldcall it laughing. He had goat's legs, little horns on his head, anda long beard. the children in the room always called him, "Majorgeneral field sergeant commander Billy goat's legs." It wascertainly a very difficult name to pronounce, and there are very fewwho ever receive such a title, but then it seemed wonderful how hecame to be carved at all. yet there he was, always looking at thetable under the looking glass, where stood a very pretty littleshepherdess made of china. Her shoes were gilt, and her dress had ared rose or an ornament. She wore a hat, and carried a crook, thatwere both gilded, and looked very bright and pretty. Close by her sidestood a little chimney sweep, as black as coal, and also made ofchina. He was, however, quite as clean and neat as any other chinafigure. he only represented a black chimney sweep, and the chinaworkers might just as well have made him a prince, had they feltinclined to do so. He stood holding his ladder quite handily, andhis face was as fair and rosy as a girl's. indeed, that was rather amistake, it should have had some black marks on it. He and theshepherdess had been placed close together, side by side. and, beingso placed, they became engaged to each other, for they were verywell suited, being both made of the same sort of china, and beingequally fragile. Close to them stood another figure, three times aslarge as they were, and also made of china. He was an old Chinaman,who could nod his head, and used to pretend that he was thegrandfather of the shepherdess, although he could not prove it. Hehowever assumed authority over her, and therefore when"Major general field sergeant commander Billy goat's legs" asked forthe little shepherdess to be his wife, he nodded his head to show thathe consented. "You will have a husband," said the old Chinaman to her,"who I really believe is made of mahogany. He will make you a ladyof Major general field sergeant commander Billy goat's legs. He hasthe whole cupboard full of silver plate, which he keeps locked up insecret drawers.""I won't go into the dark cupboard," said the littleshepherdess. "I have heard that he has eleven china wives therealready.""Then you shall be the twelfth," said the old Chinaman."To night as soon as you hear a rattling in the old cupboard, youshall be married, as true as I am a Chinaman." and then he noddedhis head and fell asleep.Then the little shepherdess cried, and looked at her sweetheart,the china chimney sweep. "I must entreat you," said she, "to go outwith me into the wide world, for we cannot stay here.""I will do whatever you wish," said the little chimney sweep. "letus go immediately: I think I shall be able to maintain you with myprofession.""If we were but safely down from the table!" said she. "I shallnot be happy till we are really out in the world."Then he comforted her, and showed her how to place her little footon the carved edge and gilt leaf ornaments of the table. He broughthis little ladder to help her, and so they contrived to reach thefloor. But when they looked at the old cupboard, they saw it was allin an uproar. The carved stags pushed out their heads, raised theirantlers, and twisted their necks. The major general sprung up in theair. and cried out to the old Chinaman, "They are running away! theyare running away!" The two were rather frightened at this, so theyjumped into the drawer of the window seat. Here were three or fourpacks of cards not quite complete, and a doll's theatre, which hadbeen built up very neatly. A comedy was being performed in it, and allthe queens of diamonds, clubs, and hearts, and spades, sat in thefirst row fanning themselves with tulips, and behind them stood allthe knaves, showing that they had heads above and below as playingcards generally have. The play was about two lovers, who were notallowed to marry, and the shepherdess wept because it was so likeher own story. "I cannot bear it," said she, "I must get out of thedrawer." but when they reached the floor, and cast their eyes on thetable, there was the old Chinaman awake and shaking his whole body,till all at once down he came on the floor, "plump." "The old Chinamanis coming," cried the little shepherdess in a fright, and down shefell on one knee."I have thought of something," said the chimney sweep. "let us getinto the great pot pourri jar which stands in the corner. there we canlie on rose leaves and lavender, and throw salt in his eyes if hecomes near us.""No, that will never do," said she, "because I know that theChinaman and the pot pourri jar were lovers once, and there alwaysremains behind a feeling of good will between those who have been sointimate as that. No, there is nothing left for us but to go outinto the wide world.""Have you really courage enough to go out into the wide world withme?" said the chimney sweep. "have you thought how large it is, andthat we can never come back here again?""Yes, I have," she replied.When the chimney sweep saw that she was quite firm, he said, "Myway is through the stove and up the chimney. Have you courage to creepwith me through the fire box, and the iron pipe? When we get to thechimney I shall know how to manage very well. We shall soon climbtoo high for any one to reach us, and we shall come through a holein the top out into the wide world." So he led her to the door ofthe stove."It looks very dark," said she. still she went in with him throughthe stove and through the pipe, where it was as dark as pitch."Now we are in the chimney," said he. "and look, there is abeautiful star shining above it." It was a real star shining down uponthem as if it would show them the way. So they clambered, and crepton, and a frightful steep place it was. but the chimney sweep helpedher and supported her, till they got higher and higher. He showedher the best places on which to set her little china foot, so atlast they reached the top of the chimney, and sat themselves down, forthey were very tired, as may be supposed. The sky, with all its stars,was over their heads, and below were the roofs of the town. They couldsee for a very long distance out into the wide world, and the poorlittle shepherdess leaned her head on her chimney sweep's shoulder,and wept till she washed the gilt off her sash. the world was sodifferent to what she expected. "This is too much," she said. "Icannot bear it, the world is too large. Oh, I wish I were safe back onthe table again, under the looking glass. I shall never be happy tillI am safe back again. Now I have followed you out into the wide world,you will take me back, if you love me."Then the chimney sweep tried to reason with her, and spoke ofthe old Chinaman, and of the Major general field sergeant commanderBilly goat's legs. but she sobbed so bitterly, and kissed her littlechimney sweep till he was obliged to do all she asked, foolish as itwas. And so, with a great deal of trouble, they climbed down thechimney, and then crept through the pipe and stove, which werecertainly not very pleasant places. Then they stood in the darkfire box, and listened behind the door, to hear what was going on inthe room. As it was all quiet, they peeped out. Alas! there lay theold Chinaman on the floor. he had fallen down from the table as heattempted to run after them, and was broken into three pieces. hisback had separated entirely, and his head had rolled into a cornerof the room. The major general stood in his old place, and appearedlost in thought."This is terrible," said the little shepherdess. "My poor oldgrandfather is broken to pieces, and it is our fault. I shall neverlive after this." and she wrung her little hands."He can be riveted," said the chimney sweep. "he can be riveted.Do not be so hasty. If they cement his back, and put a good rivet init, he will be as good as new, and be able to say as many disagreeablethings to us as ever.""Do you think so?" said she. and then they climbed up to thetable, and stood in their old places."As we have done no good," said the chimney sweep, "we might aswell have remained here, instead of taking so much trouble.""I wish grandfather was riveted," said the shepherdess. "Will itcost much, I wonder?"And she had her wish. The family had the Chinaman's back mended,and a strong rivet put through his neck. he looked as good as new, buthe could no longer nod his head."You have become proud since your fall broke you to pieces,"said Major general field sergeant commander Billy goat's legs. "Youhave no reason to give yourself such airs. Am I to have her or not?"The chimney sweep and the little shepherdess looked piteously atthe old Chinaman, for they were afraid he might nod. but he was notable: besides, it was so tiresome to be always telling strangers hehad a rivet in the back of his neck.And so the little china people remained together, and were glad ofthe grandfather's rivet, and continued to love each other till theywere broken to pieces.