A miller, accompanied by his young son, was driving his ass to market inhopes of finding a purchaser for him. On theroad they met a troop of girls, laughing and talking, who exclaimed, "Didyou ever see such a pair of fools? To betrudging along the dusty road when they might be riding!"The miller thought there was sense in what they said. so he made his sonmount the ass, and himself walked at theside. Presently they met some of his old cronies, who greeted them andsaid, "You'll spoil that son of yours, lettinghim ride while you toil along on foot! Make him walk, young lazybones!It'll do him all the good in the world."The miller followed their advice, and took his son's place on the back ofthe ass, while the boy trudged along behind.They had not gone far when they overtook a party of women and children,and the miller heard them say, "What a selfishold man! He himself rides in comfort, but lets his poor little boy followas best he can on his own legs!"So he made his son get up behind him. Further along the road they met sometravelers, who asked the miller whether theass he was riding was his own property, or a beast hired for the occasion.He replied that it was his own, and that hewas taking it to market to sell. "Good heavens!" said they. "With a loadlike that the poor beast will be so exhaustedby the time he gets there that no one will look at him. Why, you'd dobetter to carry him!""Anything to please you," said the old man. "We can but try." So they gotoff, tied the ass's legs together with arope and slung him on a pole, and at last reached the town, carrying himbetween them. This was so absurd a sight thatthe people ran out in crowds to laugh at it, and chaffed the father andson unmercifully, some even calling themlunatics. They had then got to a bridge over the river, where the ass,frightened by the noise and his unusualsituation, kicked and struggled till he broke the ropes that bound him,and fell into the water and was drowned.Whereupon the unfortunate miller, vexed and ashamed, made the best of hisway home again, convinced that in trying toplease all, he had pleased none, and had lost his ass into the bargain.