Once upon a time there lived a man of learning and wealth who had anonly son, named Hanina. To this son, who was grown up and married, hesent a messenger asking that he should immediately come to his father.Hanina obeyed, and found both his father and mother lying ill."Know, my son," said the old man, "we are about to die. Grieve not,for it has been so ordained. We have been companions through life, andwe are to be privileged to leave this world together. You will mournfor us the customary seven days. They will end on the eve of thefestival of the Passover. On that day go forth into the market placeand purchase the first thing offered to thee, no matter what it is, orwhat the cost that may be demanded. It will in due course bring theegood fortune. Hearken unto my words, my son, and all will be well."(: Hanina and his wife followed the giant frog.(_Page 255_).)Hanina promised obedience to this strange injunction of his father,and events fell out in accordance with the old man's prediction. Theaged couple died on the same day, were buried together and after theweek of mourning, on the day preceding the Passover festival, Haninamade his way to the market place wondering what adventure was in storefor him.He had scarcely entered the market place, where all manner of wareswere displayed, when an old man approached him, carrying a silvercasket of curious design."Purchase this, my son," he said, "and it will bring thee goodfortune.""What does it contain?" asked Hanina."That I may not inform thee," was the reply. "Indeed I cannot, for Iknow not. Only the purchaser can open it at the feast which begins thePassover."Naturally, Hanina was impressed by these words. Matters were shapingjust as his father foretold."What is the price?" he asked."A thousand gold pieces."That was an enormous sum, nearly the whole that he possessed, butHanina, remembering his vow, paid the money and took the casket home.It was placed upon the table that night when the Passover festivalbegan. On being opened it was found to contain a smaller casket. Thiswas opened and out sprang a frog.Hanina's wife was sorely disappointed, but she gave food to the frogwhich devoured everything greedily. So much did the creature eat thatwhen the Passover had ended, in eight days it had grown to an enormoussize. Hanina built a cabinet for his strange possession, but itcontinued to grow and soon required a special shed.Hanina was seriously puzzled, for the frog ate so ravenously that heand his wife had little food for themselves. But they made nocomplaint, although their hardships increased daily. They werecompelled to dispose of almost everything they possessed to keep thefrog supplied with food, and at last they were left in a state ofabject poverty. Then only did the courage of Hanina's wife give wayand she began to cry.To her astonishment, the frog, which was now bigger than a man, spoketo her."Listen to me, wife of the faithful Hanina," it said. "Ye have treatedme well. Therefore, ask of me what ye will, and I shall carry out yourwishes.""Give us food," sobbed the woman."It is there," said the frog, and at that very moment there was aknock at the door and a huge basket of food was delivered.Hanina had not yet spoken, and the frog asked him to name his desire."A frog that speaks and performs wonders must be wise and learned,"said Hanina. "I wish that thou shouldst teach me the lore of men."The frog agreed, and his method of teaching was exceedingly strange.He wrote out the Law and the seventy known languages on strips ofpaper. These he ordered Hanina to swallow. Hanina did so and becameacquainted with everything, even the language of the beasts and thebirds. All men regarded him as the most learned sage of his time.One day the frog spoke again."The day has arrived," he said, "when I must repay you for all thekindness you have shown me. Your reward shall be great. Come with meto the woods and you shall see marvels performed."Hanina and his wife followed the giant frog to the woods very earlyone morning, and a comical figure it presented as it hobbled along.Arrived at the woods, the frog cried out, in its croaking voice:"Come to me all ye inhabitants of the trees, the caves and streams,and do my bidding. Bring precious stones from the depths of the earthand roots and herbs."Then began the queerest procession. Hundreds upon hundreds of birdscame twittering through the trees. thousands upon thousands of insectscame crawling from holes in the ground. and all the animals in thewoods, from the tiniest to the monsters, came in answer to the call ofthe frog. Each group brought some gift and laid it at the feet ofHanina and his wife who stood in some alarm. Soon a great pile ofprecious stones and herbs was heaped before them."All these belong to you," said the frog, pointing to the jewels. "Ofequal worth are the herbs and the roots with which ye can cure alldiseases. Because ye obeyed the wishes of the dying and did notquestion me, ye are now rewarded."Hanina and his wife thanked the frog and then the former said: "May wenot know who thou art?""Yes," replied the frog. "I am the fairy son of Adam, gifted with thepower of assuming any form. Farewell."With these words, the frog began to grow smaller and smaller until itwas the size of an ordinary frog. Then it hopped into a stream anddisappeared and all the denizens of the woods returned to theirhaunts.Hanina and his wife made their way home with their treasures. Theybecame famous for their wealth, their wisdom and their charity, andlived in happiness with all peoples for many, many years.(: The giant bird did not seem to notice its burdenat all. (_Page 274_).)