There was a man with his mother. The mother was much afraid of dying,therefore she wished to go into a country where there is no death. The sonsaid, "Where is a country without death?"She answered, "Well, there is such a country, bring me there!" Thewoman was very old.So they traveled into a very, very distant country to reach the countrywhere there is no death. They turned into a village and asked for water.When it was given them, the son asked, "Is there death in thiscountry?"The people answered, "Dear me, where do you come from that you ask sucha question concerning death?"He answered, "My mother is afraid of dying, so she wants a countrywhere death is not."The people said, "Why, go away!"They went and turned to another village. There they asked again andreceived the answer, "Why, what kind of man are you that you ask aboutdying? Go away! There is death here."Then they went to a very distant country and asked, "How is yourcountry? Is there death in it?"The answer was, "No, people do not die here."The mother was very glad, she said, "Well done, my son, you havebrought me to a country where there is no death."Her son had a friend in that town, and to his home he brought hismother. He said, "Here is my mother, let her live with you. I shall go toour country, and after three years I shall return to see you and mymother." His mother was satisfied.So the boy returned to his native country and stayed there for sometime.But his mother became sick. she got a headache. she said, "Friend of myson, I have a headache."On that the boy arose and called the people together. The people cameand sat down. The boy said, "I have called you because of the mother of myfriend, who is here. Now collect money, that we may give it to her sonwhen he returns. For she says her head is aching. and because of hersickness her meat will spoil. For that reason," he said, "she must bekilled at once."When the woman heard this, she began crying, "I am not sick! I have noheadache!"But the people said, "Never mind, seize her, or her flesh will bespoiled." So she was caught, brought, thrown on the ground and killed. herflesh was divided among the people, and they ate it. The next day theycollected money and brought it to the friend of her son.And her son came back. He sat down, they gave him food, and he ate. Heasked, "Where is my mother?"His friend answered, "My friend, your mother was seized with sickness,so we collected money,   here is the money!   and killed her, lest hermeat should be spoiled. For as for us, we do not die in our country. if aman is seized with sickness, we kill him."The boy replied, "Why, should I sell my mother? Never!"Then he said, "I will but go."His friend said, "You are angry?"He replied, "No, I am not angry."In the meantime the people came and wanted to eat the boy too. Hisfriend therefore went to him saying, "Go, or you also will be eaten likeyour mother." He accompanied him into a distant country.When the boy came home, he said to his people, "My mother has beeneaten by a lion."That is all. and the people said, "Your mother was a sinful woman. Isnot death in all the world, and should there be a place where there is nodeath?"