There was once a king who had a daughter whose name was Stella. She wasindescribably beautiful, but was so whimsical and hard to please that shedrove her father to despair.There had been princes and kings who had sought her in marriage, butshe had found defects in them all and would have none of them. She keptadvancing in years, and her father began to despair of knowing to whom heshould leave his crown. So he summoned his council, and discussed thematter, and was advised to give a great banquet, to which he should inviteall the princes and kings of the surrounding countries, for, as they said,there cannot fail to be among so many, someone who should please theprincess, who was to hide behind a door, so that she could examine themall as she pleased.When the kind heard this advice, he gave the order necessary for thebanquet, and then called his daughter, and said, "Listen, my littleStella, I have thought to do so and so, to see if I can find anyone toplease you. Behold, my daughter, my hair is white, and I must have someoneto leave my crown to."Stella bowed her head, saying that she would take care to pleasehim.Princes and kings then began to arrive at the court, and when it wastime for the banquet, they all seated themselves at the table. You canimagine what sort of a banquet that was, and how the hall was adorned:Gold and silver shone from all their necks. In the four corners of theroom were four fountains, which continually sent forth wine and the mostexquisite perfumes.While the gentlemen were eating, Stella was behind a door, as has beensaid, and one of her maids, who was nearby, pointed out to her now thisone, now that one. "See, your majesty, what a handsome youth that isthere.""Yes, but he has too large a nose.""And the one near your father?""He has eyes that look like saucers.""And that other at the head of the table?""He has too large a mouth. He looks as if he liked to eat."In short, she found fault with all but one, who, she said, pleased her,but that he must be a very dirty fellow, for he had a crumb on his beardafter eating. The youth heard her say this, and swore vengeance. You mustknow that he was the son of the King of the Green Hill, and the handsomestyouth that could be seen.When the banquet was finished and the guests had departed, the kingcalled Stella and asked, "What news have you, my child?"She replied, that the only one who pleased her was the one with thecrumb in his beard, but that she believed him to be a dirty fellow and didnot want him."Take care, my daughter, you will repent it," answered her father, andturned away.You must know that Stella's chamber looked into a courtyard into whichopened the shop of a baker. One night, while she was preparing to retire,she heard, in the room where they sifted the meal, someone singing so welland with so much grace that it went to her heart. She ran to the windowand listened until he finished. Then she began to ask her maid who theperson with the beautiful voice could be, saying she would like toknow."Leave it to me, your majesty," said the maid. "I will inform youtomorrow."Stella could not wait for the next day. and, indeed, early the next dayshe learned that the one who sang was the sifter. That evening she heardhim sing again, and stood by the window until everything became quiet. Butthat voice had so touched her heart that she told her maid that the nextday she would try and see who had that fine voice. In the morning sheplaced herself by the window, and soon saw the youth come forth. She wasenchanted his beauty as soon as she saw him, and fell desperately in lovewith him.Now you must know that this was none other than the prince who was atthe banquet, and whom Stella had called "dirty." So he had disguisedhimself in such a way that she could not recognize him, and was meanwhilepreparing his revenge. After he had seen her once or twice he began totake off his had and salute her. She smiled at him, and appeared at thewindow every moment. Then they began to exchange words, and in the eveninghe sang under her window.In short, they began to make love in good earnest, and when he learnedthat she was free, he began to talk about marrying her. She consented atonce, but asked him what he had to live on."I haven't a penny," said he. "The little I earn is hardly enough tofeed me."Stella encourage him, saying she would give him all the money andthings he wanted.To punish Stella for her pride, her father and the prince's father hadan understanding, and pretended not to know about this love affair, andlet her carry away from palace all she owned. During the day Stella didnothing but make a great bundle of clothes, of silver, and of money, andat night the disguised prince came under the balcony, and she threw itdown to him.Things went on in this manner some time, and finally one evening hesaid to her, "Listen. The time has come to elope."Stella could not wait for the hour, and the next night she quietly tieda cord about her and let herself down from the window. The prince aidedher to the ground, and then took her arm and hastened away. He led her along ways to another city, where he turned down a street and opened thefirst door he met. They went down a long passage. Finally they reached alittle door, which he opened, and they found themselves in a hole of aplace which had only one window, high up. The furniture consisted of astraw bed, a bench, and a dirty table. You can imagine that when Stellasaw herself in this place she thought she should die.When the prince saw her so amazed, he said, "What is the matter? Doesthe house not please you? Do you not know that I am a poor man? Have youbeen deceived?""What have you done with all the things I gave you?""Oh, I had many debts, and I have paid them, and then I have done withthe rest what seemed good to me. You must make up your mind to work andgain your bread as I have done. You must know that I am a porter of theking of this city, and I often go and work at the palace. Tomorrow, theyhave told me, the washing is to be done, so you must rise early and gowith me there. I will set you to work with the other women, and when it istime for them to go home to dinner, you will say that you are not hungry,and while you are alone, steal two shirts, conceal them under your skirt,and carry them home to me."Poor Stella wept bitterly, saying it was impossible for her to dothat.But her husband replied, "Do what I say, or I shall beat you."The next morning her husband rose with the dawn, and made her get up,too. He had bought her a striped skirt and a pair of coarse shoes, whichhe made her put on, and then took her to the palace with him, conductedher to the laundry and left her, after he had introduced her as his wife,saying that she should remember what awaited her at home.Meanwhile poor Stella did as her husband had commanded, and stole theshirts.As she was leaving the palace, she met the king, who said, "Prettygirl, you are the porter's wife, are you not?" Then he asked her what shehad under her skirt, and shook her until the shirts dropped out, and theking cried, "See there! The porter's wife is a thief. She has stolen someshirts."Poor Stella ran home in tears, and her husband followed her when he hadput on his disqu8ise again. When he reached home Stella told him all thathad happened and begged him not to send her to the palace again. But hetold her that the next day they were to bake, and she must go into thekitchen and help, and steal a piece of dough. Everything happened as onthe previous day. Stella's theft was discovered, and when her husbandreturned he found her crying like a condemned soul, and swearing that shehad rather be killed than go the palace again. He told her, however, thatthe king's son was to be married the next day, and that there was to be agreat banquet, and she must go into the kitchen and wash the dishes. Headded that when she had the chance she must steal a pot of broth and hideit about her so that no one should see it.She had to do as she was told, and had scarcely concealed the pot whenthe king's son came into the kitchen and told his wife she must come tothe ball that had followed the banquet. She did not wish to go, but hetook her by the arm and led her into the midst of the festival. Imaginehow the poor woman felt at the ball, dressed as she was, and with the potof broth! The king began to poke his sword at her in jest, until he hitthe pot, and all the broth ran on the floor. Then all began to jeer herand laugh, until poor Stella fainted away from shame, and they had to goand get some vinegar to revive her.At last the king's mother came forward and said, "Enough. You haverevenged yourself sufficiently." Then turning to Stella, "Know that thisis your mother, and that he has done this to correct your pride and to beavenged on you for calling him dirty."Then she took her by the arm and led her to another room, where hermaids dressed her as a queen. her father and mother then appeared andkissed and embraced her. Her husband begged her pardon for what he haddone, and they made peace and always lived in harmony. From that day onshe was never haughty, and had learned to her cost that pride is thegreatest fault.