A man had a donkey, who for long years had untiringly carried sacks tothe mill, but whose strength was now failing, so that he was becoming lessand less able to work. Then his master thought that he would no longerfeed him, but the donkey noticed that it was not a good wind that wasblowing and ran away, setting forth on the road to Bremen, where hethought he could become a town musician. When he had gone a little way hefound a hunting dog lying in the road, who was panting like one who hadrun himself tired."Why are you panting so, Grab Hold?" asked the donkey."Oh," said the dog, "because I am old and am getting weaker every dayand can no longer go hunting, my master wanted to kill me, so I ran off.but now how should I earn my bread?""Do you know what," said the donkey, "I am going to Bremen and am goingto become a town musician there. Come along and take up music too. I'llplay the lute, and you can beat the drums."The dog was satisfied with that, and they went further. It didn't takelong, before they came to a cat sitting by the side of the road and makinga face like three days of rainy weather. "What has crossed you, oldBeard Licker?" said the donkey."Oh," answered the cat, "who can be cheerful when his neck is at risk?I am getting on in years, and my teeth are getting dull, so I would rathersit behind the stove and purr than to chase around after mice. Thereforemy mistress wanted to drown me, but I took off. Now good advice is scarce.Where should I go?""Come with us to Bremen. After all, you understand night music. You canbecome a town musician there." The cat agreed and went along.Then the three refugees came to a farmyard, and the rooster of thehouse was sitting on the gate crying with all his might."Your cries pierce one's marrow and bone," said the donkey. "What areyou up to?""I just prophesied good weather," said the rooster, "because it is OurDear Lady's Day, when she washes the Christ Child's shirts and wants todry them. but because Sunday guests are coming tomorrow, the lady of thehouse has no mercy and told the cook that she wants to eat me tomorrow inthe soup, so I am supposed to let them cut off my head this evening. Now Iam going to cry at the top of my voice as long as I can.""Hey now, Red Head," said the donkey, "instead come away with us. We'regoing to Bremen. You can always find something better than death. You havea good voice, and when we make music together, it will be very pleasing."The rooster was happy with the proposal, and all four went offtogether. However, they could not reach the city of Bremen in one day, andin the evening they came into a forest, where they would spend the night.The donkey and the dog lay down under a big tree, but the cat and therooster took to the branches. The rooster flew right to the top, where itwas safest for him. Before falling asleep he looked around once again inall four directions, and he thought that he saw a little spark burning inthe distance. He hollered to his companions, that there must be a housenot too far away, for a light was shining.The donkey said, "Then we must get up and go there, because the lodginghere is poor." The dog said that he could do well with a few bones with alittle meat on them. Thus they set forth toward the place where the lightwas, and they soon saw it glistening more brightly, and it became largerand larger, until they came to the front of a brightly lit robbers' house.The donkey, the largest of them, approached the window and looked in."What do you see, Gray Horse?" asked the rooster."What do I see?" answered the donkey. "A table set with good things toeat and drink, and robbers sitting there enjoying themselves.""That would be something for us," said the rooster."Ee ah, ee ah, oh, if we were there!" said the donkey.Then the animals discussed how they might drive the robbers away, andat last they came upon a plan. The donkey was to stand with his front feeton the window, the dog to jump on the donkey's back, the cat to climb ontothe dog, and finally the rooster would fly up and sit on the cat's head.When they had done that, at a signal they began to make their music alltogether. The donkey brayed, the dog barked, the cat meowed and therooster crowed. Then they crashed through the window into the room,shattering the panes.The robbers jumped up at the terrible bellowing, thinking that a ghostwas coming in, and fled in great fear out into the woods. Then the fourcompanions seated themselves at the table and freely partook of theleftovers, eating as if they would get nothing more for four weeks.When the four minstrels were finished, they put out the light andlooked for a place to sleep, each according to his nature and his desire.The donkey lay down on the manure pile, the dog behind the door, the caton the hearth next to the warm ashes, and the rooster sat on the beam ofthe roof. Because they were tired from their long journey, they soon fellasleep.When midnight had passed and the robbers saw from the distance that thelight was no longer burning in the house, and everything appeared to bequiet, the captain said, "We shouldn't have let ourselves be chased off,"and he told one of them to go back and investigate the house. The one theysent found everything still, and went into the kitchen to strike a light.He mistook the cat's glowing, fiery eyes for live coals, and held a sulfurmatch next to them, so that it would catch fire. But the cat didn't thinkthis was funny and jumped into his face, spitting, and scratching.He was terribly frightened and ran toward the back door, but the dog,who was lying there, jumped up and bit him in the leg. When he ran acrossthe yard past the manure pile, the donkey gave him a healthy blow with hishind foot, and the rooster, who had been awakened from his sleep by thenoise and was now alert, cried down from the beam, "Cock a doodle doo!"Then the robber ran as fast as he could back to his captain and said,"Oh, there is a horrible witch sitting in the house, she blew at me andscratched my face with her long fingers. And there is a man with a knifestanding in front of the door, and he stabbed me in the leg. And a blackmonster is lying in the yard, and it struck at me with a wooden club. Andthe judge is sitting up there on the roof, and he was calling out, 'Bringthe rascal here.' Then I did what I could to get away."From that time forth, the robbers did not dare go back into the house.However, the four Bremen Musicians liked it so well there, that they neverleft it again. And the person who just told that, his mouth is stillwarm.