Long ago, at least two thousand years, there was a rich man who had abeautiful and pious wife, and they loved each other dearly. However, theyhadno children, though they wished very much to have some, and the womanprayedfor them day and night, but they didn't get any, and they didn't get any.In front of their house there was a courtyard where there stood ajunipertree. One day in winter the woman was standing beneath it, peeling herselfanapple, and while she was thus peeling the apple, she cut her finger, andtheblood fell into the snow."Oh," said the woman. She sighed heavily, looked at the blood beforeher,and was most unhappy. "If only I had a child as red as blood and as whiteassnow." And as she said that, she became quite contented, and felt surethat itwas going to happen.Then she went into the house, and a month went by, and the snow wasgone.And two months, and everything was green. And three months, and all theflowerscame out of the earth. And four months, and all the trees in the woodsgrewthicker, and the green branches were all entwined in one another, and thebirdssang until the woods resounded and the blossoms fell from the trees. Thenthefifth month passed, and she stood beneath the juniper tree, which smelledsosweet that her heart jumped for joy, and she fell on her knees and wasbesideherself. And when the sixth month was over, the fruit was thick and large,andthen she was quite still. And after the seventh month she picked thejuniperberries and ate them greedily. Then she grew sick and sorrowful. Then theeighth month passed, and she called her husband to her, and cried, andsaid,"If I die, then bury me beneath the juniper tree." Then she was quitecomfortedand happy until the next month was over, and then she had a child as whiteassnow and as red as blood, and when she saw it, she was so happy that shedied.Her husband buried her beneath the juniper tree, and he began to crybitterly. After some time he was more at ease, and although he stillcried, hecould bear it. And some time later he took another wife.He had a daughter by the second wife, but the first wife's child was alittle son, and he was as red as blood and as white as snow. When thewomanlooked at her daughter, she loved her very much, but then she looked atthelittle boy, and it pierced her heart, for she thought that he would alwaysstand in her way, and she was always thinking how she could get the entireinheritance for her daughter. And the Evil One filled her mind with thisuntilshe grew very angry with the little boy, and she pushed him from onecorner tothe other and slapped him here and cuffed him there, until the poor childwasalways afraid, for when he came home from school there was nowhere hecouldfind any peace.One day the woman had gone upstairs to her room, when her littledaughtercame up too, and said, "Mother, give me an apple.""Yes, my child," said the woman, and gave her a beautiful apple out ofthechest. The chest had a large heavy lid with a large sharp iron lock."Mother," said the little daughter, "is brother not to have one too?"This made the woman angry, but she said, "Yes, when he comes home fromschool."When from the window she saw him coming, it was as though the Evil Onecameover her, and she grabbed the apple and took it away from her daughter,saying,"You shall not have one before your brother."She threw the apple into the chest, and shut it. Then the little boycame inthe door, and the Evil One made her say to him kindly, "My son, do youwant anapple?" And she looked at him fiercely."Mother," said the little boy, "how angry you look. Yes, give me anapple."Then it seemed to her as if she had to persuade him. "Come with me,"shesaid, opening the lid of the chest. "Take out an apple for yourself." Andwhilethe little boy was leaning over, the Evil One prompted her, and crash! sheslammed down the lid, and his head flew off, falling among the red apples.Then fear overcame her, and she thought, "Maybe I can get out of this."Soshe went upstairs to her room to her chest of drawers, and took a whitescarfout of the top drawer, and set the head on the neck again, tying the scarfaround it so that nothing could be seen. Then she set him on a chair infrontof the door and put the apple in his hand.After this Marlene came into the kitchen to her mother, who wasstanding bythe fire with a pot of hot water before her which she was stirring aroundandaround."Mother," said Marlene, "brother is sitting at the door, and he lookstotally white and has an apple in his hand. I asked him to give me theapple,but he did not answer me, and I was very frightened.""Go back to him," said her mother, "and if he will not answer you, thenboxhis ears."So Marlene went to him and said, "Brother, give me the apple." But hewassilent, so she gave him one on the ear, and his head fell off. Marlene wasterrified, and began crying and screaming, and ran to her mother, andsaid,"Oh, mother, I have knocked my brother's head off," and she cried andcried andcould not be comforted."Marlene," said the mother, "what have you done? Be quiet and don't letanyone know about it. It cannot be helped now. We will cook him intostew."Then the mother took the little boy and chopped him in pieces, put himintothe pot, and cooked him into stew. But Marlene stood by crying and crying,andall her tears fell into the pot, and they did not need any salt.Then the father came home, and sat down at the table and said, "Whereis myson?" And the mother served up a large, large dish of stew, and Marlenecriedand could not stop.Then the father said again, "Where is my son?""Oh," said the mother, "he has gone across the country to his mother'sgreatuncle. He will stay there awhile.""What is he doing there? He did not even say good bye to me.""Oh, he wanted to go, and asked me if he could stay six weeks. He willbewell taken care of there.""Oh," said the man, "I am unhappy. It isn't right. He should have saidgood bye to me." With that he began to eat, saying, "Marlene, why are youcrying? Your brother will certainly come back."Then he said, "Wife, this food is delicious. Give me some more." Andthemore he ate the more he wanted, and he said, "Give me some more. You twoshallhave none of it. It seems to me as if it were all mine." And he ate andate,throwing all the bones under the table, until he had finished it all.Marlene went to her chest of drawers, took her best silk scarf from thebottom drawer, and gathered all the bones from beneath the table and tiedthemup in her silk scarf, then carried them outside the door, crying tears ofblood.She laid them down beneath the juniper tree on the green grass, andaftershe had put them there, she suddenly felt better and did not cry anymore.Then the juniper tree began to move. The branches moved apart, thenmovedtogether again, just as if someone were rejoicing and clapping his hands.Atthe same time a mist seemed to rise from the tree, and in the center ofthismist it burned like a fire, and a beautiful bird flew out of the firesingingmagnificently, and it flew high into the air, and when it was gone, thejunipertree was just as it had been before, and the cloth with the bones was nolongerthere. Marlene, however, was as happy and contented as if her brother werestill alive. And she went merrily into the house, sat down at the table,andate.Then the bird flew away and lit on a goldsmith's house, and began tosing:My mother, she killed me,My father, he ate me,My sister Marlene,Gathered all my bones,Tied them in a silken scarf,Laid them beneath the juniper tree,Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I.The goldsmith was sitting in his workshop making a golden chain,whenhe heard the bird sitting on his roof and singing. The song seemed verybeautiful to him. He stood up, but as he crossed the threshold he lost oneofhis slippers. However, he went right up the middle of the street with onlyoneslipper and one sock on. He had his leather apron on, and in one hand hehad agolden chain and in the other his tongs. The sun was shining brightly onthestreet.He walked onward, then stood still and said to the bird, "Bird," hesaid,"how beautifully you can sing. Sing that piece again for me.""No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing. Give me thegoldenchain, and then I will sing it again for you."The goldsmith said, "Here is the golden chain for you. Now sing thatsongagain for me." Then the bird came and took the golden chain in his rightclaw,and went and sat in front of the goldsmith, and sang:My mother, she killed me,My father, he ate me,My sister Marlene,Gathered all my bones,Tied them in a silken scarf,Laid them beneath the juniper tree,Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I.Then the bird flew away to a shoemaker, and lit on his roof andsang:My mother, she killed me,My father, he ate me,My sister Marlene,Gathered all my bones,Tied them in a silken scarf,Laid them beneath the juniper tree,Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I.Hearing this, the shoemaker ran out of doors in hisshirtsleeves, andlooked up at his roof, and had to hold his hand in front of his eyes tokeepthe sun from blinding him. "Bird," said he, "how beautifully you cansing."Then he called in at his door, "Wife, come outside. There is a birdhere.Look at this bird. He certainly can sing." Then he called his daughter andherchildren, and the journeyman, and the apprentice, and the maid, and theyallcame out into the street and looked at the bird and saw how beautiful hewas,and what fine red and green feathers he had, and how his neck was likepuregold, and how his eyes shone like stars in his head."Bird," said the shoemaker, "now sing that song again for me.""No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing. You must give mesomething.""Wife," said the man, "go into the shop. There is a pair of red shoeson thetop shelf. Bring them down." Then the wife went and brought the shoes."There, bird," said the man, "now sing that piece again for me." Thenthebird came and took the shoes in his left claw, and flew back to the roof,andsang:My mother, she killed me,My father, he ate me,My sister Marlene,Gathered all my bones,Tied them in a silken scarf,Laid them beneath the juniper tree,Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I.When he had finished his song he flew away. In his right claw hehadthe chain and in his left one the shoes. He flew far away to a mill, andthemill went clickety clack, clickety clack, clickety clack. In the mill sattwenty miller's apprentices cutting a stone, and chiseling chip chop,chip chop, chip chop. And the mill went clickety clack, clickety clack,clickety clack.Then the bird went and sat on a linden tree which stood in front of themill, and sang:My mother, she killed me,Then one of them stopped working.My father, he ate me,Then two more stopped working and listened,My sister Marlene,Then four more stopped,Gathered all my bones,Tied them in a silken scarf,Now only eight only were chiseling,Laid them beneathNow only five,the juniper tree,Now only one,Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird amI.Then the last one stopped also, and heard the last words."Bird,"said he, "how beautifully you sing. Let me hear that too. Sing it oncemore forme.""No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing. Give me themillstone, and then I will sing it again.""Yes," he said, "if it belonged only to me, you should have it.""Yes," said the others, "if he sings again he can have it."Then the bird came down, and the twenty millers took a beam and liftedthestone up. Yo heave ho! Yo heave ho! Yo heave ho!The bird stuck his neck through the hole and put the stone on as if itwerea collar, then flew to the tree again, and sang:My mother, she killed me,My father, he ate me,My sister Marlene,Gathered all my bones,Tied them in a silken scarf,Laid them beneath the juniper tree,Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I.When he was finished singing, he spread his wings, and in hisrightclaw he had the chain, and in his left one the shoes, and around his neckthemillstone. He flew far away to his father's house.In the room the father, the mother, and Marlene were sitting at thetable.The father said, "I feel so contented. I am so happy.""Not I," said the mother, "I feel uneasy, just as if a bad storm werecoming."But Marlene just sat and cried and cried.Then the bird flew up, and as it seated itself on the roof, the fathersaid,"Oh, I feel so truly happy, and the sun is shining so beautifully outside.Ifeel as if I were about to see some old acquaintance again.""Not I," said the woman, "I am so afraid that my teeth are chattering,and Ifeel like I have fire in my veins." And she tore open her bodice evenmore.Marlene sat in a corner crying. She held a handkerchief before her eyesandcried until it was wet clear through.Then the bird seated itself on the juniper tree, and sang:My mother, she killed me,The mother stopped her ears and shut her eyes, not wanting tosee orhear, but there was a roaring in her ears like the fiercest storm, and hereyesburned and flashed like lightning.My father, he ate me,"Oh, mother," said the man, "that is a beautiful bird. He issingingso splendidly, and the sun is shining so warmly, and it smells like purecinnamon."My sister Marlene,Then Marlene laid her head on her knees and cried and cried, buttheman said, "I am going out. I must see the bird up close.""Oh, don't go," said the woman, "I feel as if the whole house wereshakingand on fire."But the man went out and looked at the bird.Gathered all my bones,Tied them in a silken scarf,Laid them beneath the juniper tree,Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I.With this the bird dropped the golden chain, and it fell rightaroundthe man's neck, so exactly around it that it fit beautifully. Then the manwentin and said, "Just look what a beautiful bird that is, and what abeautifulgolden chain he has given me, and how nice it looks."But the woman was terrified. She fell down on the floor in the room,and hercap fell off her head. Then the bird sang once more:My mother killed me."I wish I were a thousand fathoms beneath the earth, so I wouldnothave to hear that!"My father, he ate me,Then the woman fell down as if she were dead.My sister Marlene,"Oh," said Marlene, "I too will go out and see if the bird willgiveme something." Then she went out.Gathered all my bones,Tied them in a silken scarf,He threw the shoes down to her.Laid them beneath the juniper tree,Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I.Then she was contented and happy. She put on the new red shoesanddanced and leaped into the house. "Oh," she said, "I was so sad when Iwent outand now I am so contented. That is a splendid bird, he has given me a pairofred shoes.""No," said the woman, jumping to her feet and with her hair standing uplikeflames of fire, "I feel as if the world were coming to an end. I too, willgoout and see if it makes me feel better."And as she went out the door, crash! the bird threw the millstone onherhead, and it crushed her to death.The father and Marlene heard it and went out. Smoke, flames, and firewererising from the place, and when that was over, the little brother wasstandingthere, and he took his father and Marlene by the hand, and all three wereveryhappy, and they went into the house, sat down at the table, and ate.