Once upon a time there lived in a Russian village an old peasant womanwho had two sons. One, however, died. andthe other was from home, but was soon expected to return to his nativevillage.One evening, as the peasant woman was working in her little hut, asoldier walked in at the open door. "Good day, littlemother!" he said. "Can I stay here the night?""Yes, certainly, with pleasure, little father. But whence come you, andwho are you?""I am nobody in particular, little mother. I am an emigrant for thenext world.""Ah! My precious soul! One of my sons died a little while ago. Did youhappen to come across him?""Why, yes, of course! We lived in the same sphere.""No, really! You don't mean it?""He feeds and looks after the young cranes in the next world.""Oh, my precious soul! But where did he get them?""Where did he get them! Why, the young cranes roam about among thesweet briar!""How did he look? What clothes had he on?""Clothes!" He was all in tatters, and a pair of wings.""Poor fellow! Well, I have got about forty yards of gray cloth and aten ruble note. Take them, good man, and give them to my son.""With pleasure, little mother."Next morning the old woman gave the soldier the cloth and the money,and wished him a safe journey back. And shealso begged him to come again soon and tell her how her son was gettingon.She waited and waited for many a week, but the soldier did not return.At last the day arrived when her other son was expected home."How are you, mother mine?" he exclaimed, coming into the hut andembracing his mother. "Have you any news?""Yes, my boy. Not very long ago an emigrant from the other world cameto stay the night here, and he brought somenews of your brother, for they both lived in the same sphere. But he saidthat the poor fellow had nothing but a pair of wings,so I gave him forty yards of cloth and ten rubles.""Good gracious, mother, you have given away everything we had. And forwhat? Just because that man was artfulenough to tell you a lot of lies. It really is most astonishing howconfiding some people are! I think I will go into the wideworld and tell a lot of lies, and see whether, after cheating everybody, Ibecome a very rich man or not. If I succeed, I shallcome home again, and then we can live happily together, and have food andmoney in plenty ever after."Next day the son went off to try his luck. He went on and on until hecame to an estate belonging to a rich Russianbarin or gentleman. He walked up to the lordly mansion and saw, ina garden near the house, a large pig with anumber of little ones walking about. A thought struck him, and he wentdown on his knees before the pigs, and beganmaking most polite bows to them.Now the mistress of the house, who was looking out of one of thewindows, saw the performance, and was greatlyamused. "Go," she said to one of her maids, "and ask the mujik (peasant)what he is bowing for."The maid went up to the peasant, saying, "Little mujik, tell me why youare on your knees before the pigs, and why youare bowing to them? My lady has sent me to ask.""Tell your mistress, my little dear, that yonder pig is my wife'ssister, and my son is going to be married tomorrow, so Iam asking her and her young ones to come to the wedding. That is all. Andshe has consented, on condition that your ladyallows them. So go and ask your mistress whether she will let them comewith me."The girl burst out laughing, and went straight to her mistress, whoalso began laughing heartily when she heard all thepeasant had said. "What a donkey!" she cried. "Fancy asking the pigs tohis son's wedding! Well, never mind. Let all hisfriends have a good laugh at him. Yes, he may take the pigs. But firstdress them up in my shuba (fur coat), and letthe coachman get my own little carriage and team ready, so that the pigsneed not go to the wedding on foot."When the carriage was ready, they dressed the pig up in the lady's furcoat, and placed it in the carriage with the youngones, and gave the reins to the peasant, who at once rode awayhomewards.Now the master of the house, who was away shooting at the time,returned home a few minutes after the peasant hadleft. His wife ran out to meet him, laughing."I am so glad you have returned, my dear!" she said, "as I am longingto have someone to laugh with. Such a funny thinghappened while you were away. A peasant came here and began kneeling andbowing before our pigs. He declared thatone of them was his wife's sister, and he was asking her and the littleones to come to his son's wedding!""Yes," the husband replied. "and did you let her go?""Of course I did. I even had the pig dressed in my best shuba ,and had her put in my own little carriage andteam, and let the peasant drive it himself. I think it was nothing butright for me to do so. The peasant was so very polite tothe pigs. What do you think, my dear?""What did I think? Well this: that the peasant was an ass, andyou were another!"And the good man, like the rest of his sex, thought it was a splendidopportunity for flying into a rage. He told his wifethat she had been cheated, and then rushing out of the house, he flunghimself upon his horse and galloped off after thepeasant, who, when he heard that he was being being pursued, conveyed thecarriage and team into a dark forest hard by,and then going back, took off his cap, seated himself near the entrance ofthe forest, put the cap beside him on the ground,and waited until the horseman came up to him."Hark you, little father!" cried the barin , "have you seen apeasant drive this way with a carriage and team and anumber of pigs in it?""See him? I should rather think I did! He rode past a long timeago.""In which direction did he drive? How had I better go? Do you think Iam likely to overtake him?""Yes, you could overtake him, I daresay. But the way he went by hasmany a turning, and you are sure to loseyourself. Is the road quite unknown to you?""Yes, little brother. I think, if you don't mind, it would be betterfor you to go in search of him and bring him back to me,for you seem to know the way so well!""No, brother, I could not possibly, for I have a falcon under my caphere and must watch it.""I can do that for you.""No, you are sure to let him out, and the bird is very valuable.Besides, if I lost it my master would never forgiveme.""But how much is it worth?""Three hundred rubles, I should think.""Very well then, if I lose the bird I will pay the money.""No, brother, if you really want me to go after the peasant, you hadbetter give me the money now, for heaven knowswhat might happen afterwards. You might lose the bird, and then take yourdeparture too, and I should never see either the falcon or the money!""Oh, you incredulous man! Here, take the three hundred rubles anyhow!"The peasant took the money, and at the barin's wish mounted hishorse and rode off into the forest, leaving thebarin to watch over the empty cap.He waited and waited, but the peasant did not return, which he thoughtlooked rather queer. The sun began to set. Still no peasant."Stop!" thought the barin . "Let me look and see whetherthere really is a falcon under that cap. If there is,then the peasant may possibly return. If not, well, then it is of no usewaiting here and wasting my time." He peeped underthe cap, but no falcon was to be seen."Ah, the wretch! he laughed. "I do believe that he was the very sameman who cheated my wife out of her carriage andteam, her shuba , and the pigs."He spat on the ground three times with vexation, and returned home tohis wife penitent.Meanwhile our friend the peasant had long since got safely back to hismother with all his treasures. "Well, mothermine!" he cried, "this world of ours can certainly boast of some verygood natured fools. Just look, without any reasonwhatever, they gave me three horses, a carriage, three hundred rubles, anda pig with her little ones. Now we can live happilyfor some time at least, thanks to the stupidity of these people. It reallyis wonderful.