Shemus Rua (Red James) awakened from his sleep one night by noises in hiskitchen. Stealing to the door, he saw half a dozen old women sittinground the fire, jesting and laughing, his old housekeeper, Madge, quitefrisky and gay, helping her sister crones to cheering glasses of punch.He began to admire the impudence and imprudence of Madge, displayed in theinvitation and the riot, but recollected on the instant her officiousnessin urging him to take a comfortable posset, which she had brought to hisbedside just before he fell asleep. Had he drunk it, he would have beenjust now deaf to the witches' glee. He heard and saw them drink hishealth in such a mocking style as nearly to tempt him to charge them,besom in hand, but he restrained himself.The jug being emptied, one of them cried out, "Is it time to be gone?" andat the same moment, putting on a red cap, she added  Hie over to England.Making use of a twig which she held in her hand as a steed, she gracefullysoared up the chimney, and was rapidly followed by the rest. But when itcame to the housekeeper, Shemus interposed. "By your leave, ma'am," saidhe, snatching twig and cap. "Ah, you desateful ould crocodile! If I findyou here on my return, there'll be wigs on the green Hie over to England."The words were not out of his mouth when he was soaring above the ridgepole, and swiftly plowing the air. He was careful to speak no word (beingsomewhat conversant with witch lore), as the result would be a tumble, andthe immediate return of the expedition.In a very short time they had crossed the Wicklow hills, the Irish Sea,and the Welsh mountains, and were charging, at whirlwind speed, the halldoor of a castle. Shemus, only for the company in which he found himself,would have cried out for pardon, expecting to be mummy against thehard oak door in a moment. but, all bewildered, he found himself passingthrough the keyhole, along a passage, down a flight of steps, and througha cellar door key hole before he could form any clear idea of hissituation.Waking to the full consciousness of his position, he found himself sittingon a stallion, plenty of lights glimmering round, and he and hiscompanions, with full tumblers of frothing wine in hand, hob nobbing anddrinking healths as jovially and recklessly as if the liquor was honestlycome be, and they were sitting in Shemus's own kitchen. The red birredh(cap) has assimilated Shemus's nature for the time being to that of hisunholy companions.The heady liquors soon got into their brains, and a period ofunconsciousness succeeded the ecstasy, the headache, the turning round ofthe barrels, and the "scattered sight" of poor Shemus. He woke up underthe impression of being roughly seized, and shaken, and dragged upstairs,and subjected to a disagreeable examination by the lord of the castle, inhis state parlor. There was much derision among the whole company, gentleand simple, on hearing Shemus's explanation, and, as the thing occurred inthe dark ages, the unlucky Leinster man was sentenced to be hung as soonas the gallows could be prepared for the occasion.The poor Hibernian was in the cart proceeding on his last journey, with alabel on his back, and another on his breast, announcing him as theremorseless villain who for the last month had been draining the casks inmy lord's vault every night.He was surprised to hear himself addressed by his name, and in his nativetongue, by an old woman in the crows. "Ach, Shemus, alanna! is it goingto die you are in a strange place without your cappen d'yarrag(red cap)? These words infused hope and courage into the poor victim'sheart. He turned to the lord and humbly asked leave to die in his redcap, which he supposed had dropped from his head in the vault. A servantwas sent for the head piece, and Shemus felt lively hope warming his heartwhile placing it on his head.On the platform he was graciously allowed to address the spectators, whichhe proceeded to do so in the usual formula composed for the benefit offlying stationers   "Good people all, a warning take by me." but when hehad finished the line, "My parents reared me tenderly," he unexpectedlyadded   "By yarrow and rue," etc., and the disappointed spectators sawhim shoot up obliquely though the air in the style of a sky rocket thathad missed its aim.It is said that the lord gook the circumstance much to heart, and neverafterwards hung a man for twenty four hours after his offense.