Somewhere there was a king who had three daughters, princesses. Thosethree sisters used to go to meet the devils, and the father knew not wherethey went to. But there was one called Jankos. Halenka (a fairy) aidedhim.The king asks Jankos, "Don't you know where my daughters go? Not onesingle night are they at home, and they are always wearing out new shoes."Then Jankos lay down in front of the door, and kept watch to see wherethey went to. But Halenka told him everything. she aided him. "They will,when they come, fling fire on you, and prick you with needles." Halenkatold him he must not stir, but be like a corpse.They came, those devils, for the girls, and straightway the girls set outwith them to hell. On, on, they walked, but he stuck close to them. As thegirls went to hell he followed close behind, but so that they knew it not.He went through the diamond forest. when he came there he cut himself adiamond twig from the forest. He follows. straightway they, those girls,cried, "Jankos is coming behind us." For when he broke it, he made a greatnoise. The girls heard it. "Jankos is coming behind us."But the devils said, "What does it matter if he is?"Next they went through the forest of glass, and once more he cut off atwig. now he had two tokens. Then they went through the golden forest, andonce more he cut off a twig. so now he had three.Then Halenka tells him, "I shall change you into a fly, and when you comeinto hell, creep under the bed, hide yourself there, and see what willhappen."Then the devils danced with the girls, who tore their shoes all to pieces,for they danced upon blades of knives, and so they must tear them. Thenthey flung the shoes under the bed, where Jankos took them, so that hemight show them at home. When the devils had danced with the girls, eachof them threw his girl upon the bed and lay with her. thus did they withtwo of them, but the third would not yield herself.Then Jankos, having got all he wanted, returned home and lay down again infront of the door, "that the girls may know I am lying here."The girls returned after midnight, and went to bed in their room as ifnothing had happened. But Jankos knew well what had happened, andstraightway he went to their father, the king, and showed him the tokens."I know where your daughters go: to hell. The three girls must own theywere there, in the fire. Isn't it true? weren't you there? And if youbelieve me not, I will show you the tokens. See, here is one token fromthe diamond forest. then here is one from the forest of glass. a thirdfrom the golden forest. and the fourth is the shoes which you tore dancingwith the devils. And two of you lay with the devils, but that third onenot, she would not yield herself."Straightway the king seized his rifle, and straightway he shot them dead.Then he seized a knife, and slit up their bellies, and straightway thedevils were scattered out from their bellies. Then he buried them in thechurch, and laid each coffin in front of the altar, and every night asoldier stood guard over them. But every night those two used to rend thesoldier in pieces. more than a hundred were rent thus. At last it fell toa new soldier, a recruit, to stand guard. when he went upon guard he wasweeping.But a little old man came to him   it was my God. and Jankos was therewith the soldier. And the old man tells him, "When the twelfth hourstrikes and they come out of their coffins, straightway jump in and liedown in the coffin, and don't leave the coffin, for if you do they willrend you. So don't you go out, even if they beg you and fling fire on you,for they will beg you hard to come out."Thus then till morning he lay in the coffin. In the morning those two werealive again, and both kneeling in front of the altar. They were lovelierthan ever. Then the soldier took one to wife, and Jankos took the other.Then when they came home with them their father was very glad. Then Jankosand the soldier got married, and if they are not dead they are stillalive.