History of the Forty Vezirs )There was in Hindustan a khoja who had a beautiful wife. That woman had (God forefend the listeners!) a youthful lover.One day the khoja bought a parrot which knew well how to speak. and whenever it would speak, the khoja's heart reaped a hundred thousand joys and delights.One day the khoja went to a certain place and came not that night to his house. Forthwith the woman brought the youth to the house, and that night passed they in fun and frolic, and, joining soul to soul and heart to heart, both reaped their desires.The parrot watched this their secret from the cage, and when it was morning the youth went away and the khoja returned. As soon as it saw the khoja, the parrot said, "O khoja, this night till morning the lady was with a youth, eating, and drinking, and kissing, and clipping. lo, the youth is gone."When the khoja heard these words he said to his wife, "Out on thee, wife! Who is that youth?"The woman replied, "What manner of speech is this? Dost thou believe the word of a bird and act thereon?" And she fell to chattering and babbling, and convinced the khoja, and gave the lie to the parrot.One day the khoja again went to a certain place, and the woman, according to her wont, got the youth whom she told what the parrot had said to the khoja.The youth said, "Henceforward there can be no more frolic with thee. This parrot is a hindrance to us, and will make us disgraced before the world."Quoth the woman, "My lord, be not dismayed. See what a trick I will play the parrot."And she ordered the slave girls and they brought a sieve, an earthenware jar, some water, and a piece of bullock hide. They put the hide over the parrot's cage, and one of the girls struck on it with a stick every now and again, while another sprinkled water through the sieve upon the parrot, and a third put a looking glass into the jar which ever and anon she opened and closed before the cage. So again the woman and the youth made merry till the morning.When it was morning the youth went away and the khoja came. and as soon as the parrot saw him, it said, "Khoja, this night the lady and the youth ate and drank and made merry till the morning. but much did the rain rain and the thunder roar and the lightning flash."Then quoth the lady, "Dost thou see the parrot's lies? Did the rain rain, or the thunder roar, or the lightning flash this night?""Nay," said the khoja."And thou believedst the lie spoken by the bird," quoth the woman.And the poor khoja's trust was destroyed by this trick. and as often as he went away the woman invited that youth and made merry with him. And the parrot ever said so, but the khoja would not believe, and the woman would make mock of the parrot's words, and split the khoja's head by saying, "And thou didst libel me on this thing's word!''