Narrative 1One evening, between the years 1790 and 1800, a traveler, dressed inwoman's clothes, arrived at the Old Spital Inn, the place where the mailcoach changed horses, in High Spital, on Bowes Moor. The traveler beggedto stay all night, but had to go away so early in the morning that if amouthful of food were set ready for breakfast there was no need the familyshould be disturbed by her departure. The people of the house, however,arranged that a servant maid should sit up till the stranger was out ofthe premises, and then went to bed themselves.The girl lay down for a nap on the longsettle by the fire, but beforeshe shut her eyes she took a good look at the traveler, who was sitting onthe opposite side of the hearth, and espied a pair of man's trouserspeeping out from under the gown.All inclination for sleep was now gone. however, with greatself command, she feigned it, closed her eyes, and even began to snore. Onthis the traveler got up, pulled out of his pocket a dead man's hand,fitted a candle to it, lighted the candle, and passed hand and candleseveral times before the servant girl's face, saying as he did so: "Letall those who are asleep be asleep, and let those who are awake be awake."This done, he placed the light on the table, opened the outer door, wentdown two or three of the steps which led from the house to the road, andbegan to whistle for his companions.The girl (who had hitherto had presence of mind enough to remainperfectly quiet) now jumped up, rushed behind the ruffian, and pushed himdown the steps. She then shut the door, locked it, and ran upstairs to tryand wake the family, but without success: calling, shouting, and shakingwere alike in vain. The poor girl was in despair, for she heard thetraveler and his comrades outside the house. So she ran down again, andseized a bowl of blue (i.e., skimmed milk), and threw it over the hand andcandle. after which she went upstairs again, and awoke the sleeperswithout any difficulty.The landlord's son went to the window, and asked the men outside whatthey wanted. They answered that if the dead man's hand were but giventhem, they would go away quietly, and do no harm to anyone. This herefused, and fired among them, and the shot must have taken effect, for inthe morning stains of blood were traced to a considerable distance.These circumstances were related to my informant, Mr. Charles Wastell,in the spring of 1861, by an old woman named Bella Parkin, who residedclose to High Spital, and was actually the daughter of the courageousservant girl.Narrative 2Two magicians, having come to lodge in a public house with a view torobbing it, asked permission to pass the night by the fire, and obtainedit. When the house was quiet, the servant girl, suspecting mischief, creptdownstairs and looked through the keyhole. She saw the men open a sack,and take out a dry, withered hand. They anointed the fingers with someunguent, and lighted them. Each finger flamed, but the thumb they couldnot light. that was because one of the household was not asleep.The girl hastened to her master, but found it impossible to arouse him.She tried every other sleeper, but could not break the charmed sleep. Atlast, stealing down into the kitchen, while the thieves were busy over hermaster's strongbox, she secured the hand, blew out the flames, and at oncethe whole household was aroused.Narrative 3One dark night, when all was shut up, there came a tap at the door of alone inn in the middle of a barren moor. The door was opened, and therestood without, shivering and shaking, a poor beggar, his rags soaked withrain, and his hand white with cold. He asked piteously for a lodging, andit was cheerfully granted him. there was not a spare bed in the house, buthe could lie on the mat before the kitchen fire, and welcome.So this was settled, and everyone in the house went to bed except thecook, who from the back kitchen could see into the large room through apane of glass let into the door. She watched the beggar, and saw him, assoon as he was left alone, draw himself up from the floor, seat himself atthe table, extract from his pocket a brown withered human hand, and set itupright in the candlestick. He then anointed the fingers, and applying amatch to them, they began to flame. Filled with horror, the cook rushed upthe back stairs, and endeavored to arouse her master and the men of thehouse. But all was in vain they slept a charmed sleep. so in despair shehastened down again, and placed herself at her post of observation.She saw the fingers of the hand flaming, but the thumb remainedunlighted, because one inmate of the house was awake. The beggar was busycollecting the valuables around him into a large sack, and having takenall he cared for in the large room, he entered another.On this the woman ran in, and, seizing the light, tried to extinguishthe flames. But this was not so easy. She blew at them, but they burnt onas before. She poured the dregs of a beer jug over them, but they blazedup the brighter. As a last resource, she caught up a jug of milk, anddashed it over the four lambent flames, and they died out at once.Uttering a loud cry, she rushed to the door of the apartment the beggarhad entered, and locked it. The whole family was aroused, and the thiefeasily secured and hanged.This tale is told in Northumberland.