They relate, O King of the age and lord of the time and of thesedays, that the Caliph Harun al Rashid summoned his Wazir Ja'afarone night and said to him, 'I desire to go down into the city andquestion the common folk concerning the conduct of those chargedwith its governance. and those of whom they complain we willdepose from office and those whom they commend we will promote."Quoth Ja'afar, "Hearkening and obedience!" So the Caliph wentdown with Ja'afar and Eunuch Masrur to the town and walked aboutthe streets and markets and, as they were threading a narrowalley, they came upon a very old man with a fishing net and crateto carry small fish on his head, and in his hand a staff. and, ashe walked at a leisurely pace, he repeated these lines: "They say me:  Thou shinest a light to mankind With thy loreas the night which the Moon doth uplight!I answer, "A truce to your jests and your gibes. Without luckwhat is learning? a poor devil wight!If they take me to pawn with my lore in my pouch, With myvolumes to read and my ink case to write,For one day's provision they never could pledge me. As likelyon Doomsday to draw bill at sight:"How poorly, indeed, doth it fare wi' the poor, With his pauperexistence and beggarly plight:In summer he faileth provision to find. In winter thefire pot's his only delight:The street dogs with bite and with bark to him rise, And eachlosel receives him with bark and with bite:If he lift up his voice and complain of his wrong, None pitiesor heeds him, however he's right.And when sorrows and evils like these he must brave Hishappiest homestead were down in the grave."When the Caliph heard his verses he said to Ja'afar, "See thispoor man and note his verses, for surely they point to hisnecessities." Then he accosted him and asked, "O Shaykh, what bethine occupation?" and the poor man answered, "O my lord, I am afisherman with a family to keep and I have been out betweenmid day and this time. and not a thing hath Allah made my portionwherewithal to feed my family. I cannot even pawn myself to buythem a supper and I hate and disgust my life and I hanker afterdeath." Quoth the Caliph, "Say me, wilt thou return with us toTigris' bank and cast thy net on my luck, and whatsoever turnethup I will buy of thee for an hundred gold pieces?" The manrejoiced when he heard these words and said, "On my head be it! Iwill go back with you." and, returning with them river wards,made a cast and waited a while. then he hauled in the rope anddragged the net ashore and there appeared in it a chest padlockedand heavy. The Caliph examined it and lifted it finding itweighty. so he gave the fisherman two hundred dinars and sent himabout his business. whilst Masrur, aided by the Caliph, carriedthe chest to the palace and set it down and lighted the candles.Ja'afar and Masrur then broke it open and found therein a basketof palm leaves corded with red worsted. This they cut open andsaw within it a piece of carpet which they lifted out, and underit was a woman's mantilla folded in four, which they pulled out.and at the bottom of the chest they came upon a young lady, fairas a silver ingot, slain and cut into nineteen pieces. When theCaliph looked upon her he cried, "Alas!" and tears ran down hischeeks and turning to Ja'afar he said, "O dog of Wazirs,shall folk be murdered in our reign and be cast into the river tobe a burden and a responsibility for us on the Day of Doom? ByAllah, we must avenge this woman on her murderer and he shall bemade die the worst of deaths!" And presently he added, " Now, assurely as we are descended from the Sons of Abbas, ifthou bring us not him who slew her, that we do her justice onhim, I will hang thee at the gate of my palace, thee and forty ofthy kith and kin by thy side." And the: Caliph was wroth withexceeding rage. Quoth Ja'afar, "Grant me three days' delay." andquoth the Caliph, "We grant thee this." So Ja'afar went out frombefore him and returned to his own house, full of sorrow andsaying to himself, "How shall I find him who murdered thisdamsel, that I may bring him before the Caliph? If I bring otherthan the murderer, it will be laid to my charge by the Lord: invery sooth I wot not what to do." He kept his house three daysand on the fourth day the Caliph sent one of the Chamberlains forhim and, as he came into the presence, asked him, "Where is themurderer of the damsel?" to which answered Ja'afar, "O Commanderof the Faithful, am I inspector of " murdered folk that I shouldken who killed her?" The Caliph was furious at his answer andbade hang him before the palace gate and commanded that a criercry through the streets of Baghdad, "Whoso would see the hangingof Ja'afar, the Barmaki, Wazir of the Caliph, with forty of theBarmecides, his cousins and kinsmen, before thepalace gate, let him come and let him look!" The people flockedout from all the quarters of the city to witness the execution ofJa'afar and his kinsmen, not knowing the cause. Then they set upthe gallows and made Ja'afar and the others stand underneath inreadiness for execution, but whilst every eye was looking for theCaliph's signal, and the crowd wept for Ja'afar and his cousinsof the Barmecides, lo and behold! a young man fair of face andneat of dress and of favour like the moon raining light, witheyes black and bright, and brow flower white, and cheeks red asrose and young down where the beard grows, and a mole like agrain of ambergris, pushed his way through the people till hestood immediately before the Wazir and said to him, "Safety tothee from this strait, O Prince of the Emirs and Asylum of thepoor! I am the man who slew the woman ye found in the chest, sohang me for her and do her justice on me!" When Ja'afar heard theyouth's confession he rejoiced at his own deliverance. butgrieved and sorrowed for the fair youth. and whilst they were yettalking behold, another man well stricken in years pressedforwards through the people and thrust his way amid the populacetill he came to Ja'afar and the youth, whom he saluted saying,"Ho thou the Wazir and Prince sans peer! believe not the words ofthis youth. Of a surety none murdered the damsel but I. take herwreak on me this moment. for, an thou do not thus, I will requireit of thee before Almighty Allah." Then quoth the young man, "OWazir, this is an old man in his dotage who wotteth not whatso hesaith ever, and I am he who murdered her, so do thou avenge heron me!" Quoth the old man, "O my son, thou art young and desirestthe joys of the world and I am old and weary and surfeited withthe world: I will offer my life as a ransom for thee and for theWazir and his cousins. No one murdered the damsel but I, so Allahupon thee, make haste to hang me, for no life is left in me nowthat hers is gone." The Wazir marvelled much at all thisstrangeness and, taking the young man and the old man, carriedthem before the Caliph, where, after kissing the ground seventimes between his hands, he said, "O Commander of the Faithful, Ibring thee the murderer of the damsel!" "Where is he?" asked theCaliph and Ja'afar answered, "This young man saith, I am themurderer, and this old man giving him the lie saith, I am themurderer, and behold, here are the twain standing before thee."The Caliph looked at the old man and the young man and asked,"Which of you killed the girl?" The young man replied, "No oneslew her save I." and the old man answered, "Indeed none killedher but myself." Then said the Caliph to Ja'afar, "Take the twainand hang them both." but Ja'afar rejoined, "Since one of them wasthe murderer, to hang the other were mere injustice." "ByHim who raised the firmament and dispread the earth like acarpet," cried the youth, "I am he who slew the damsel." and hewent on to describe the manner of her murder and the basket, themantilla and the bit of carpet, in fact all that the Caliph hadfound upon her. So the Caliph was certified that the young manwas the murderer. whereat he wondered and asked him, 'What wasthe cause of thy wrongfully doing this damsel to die and whatmade thee confess the murder without the bastinado, and whatbrought thee here to yield up thy life, and what made thee say Doher wreak upon me?" The youth answered, "Know, O Commander of theFaithful, that this woman was my wife and the mother of mychildren. also my first cousin and the daughter of my paternaluncle, this old man who is my father's own brother. When Imarried her she was a maid and Allah blessed me withthree male children by her. she loved me and served me and I sawno evil in her, for I also loved her with fondest love. Now onthe first day of this month she fell ill with grievous sicknessand I fetched in physicians to her. but recovery came to herlittle by little. and, when I wished her to go to the Hammam bath,she said, "There is a something I long for before I go tothe bath and I long for it with an exceeding longing." To hear isto comply," said I. "And what is it?" Quoth she, "I have a queasycraving for an apple, to smell it and bite a bit of it." Ireplied, "Hadst thou a thousand longings I would try to satisfythem!" So I went on the instant into the city and sought forapples but could find none. yet, had they cost a gold piece each,would I have bought them. I was vexed at this and went home andsaid, "O daughter of my uncle. by Allah I can find none!" She wasdistressed, being yet very weakly, and her weakness in. creasedgreatly on her that night and I felt anxious and alarmed on heraccount. As soon as morning dawned I went out again and made theround of the gardens, one by one, but found no apples anywhere.At last there met me an old gardener. of whom I asked about themand he answered, "O my son, this fruit is a rarity with us and isnot now to be found save in the garden of the Commander of theFaithful at Bassorah, where the gardener keepeth it for theCaliph's eating." I returned to my house troubled by myill success. and my love for my wife and my affection moved me toundertake the journey. So I gat me ready and set out andtravelled fifteen days and nights, going and coming, and broughther three apples which I bought from the gardener for threedinars. But when I went in to my wife and set them before her,she took no pleasure in them and let them lie by her side. forher weakness and fever had increased on her and her malady lastedwithout abating ten days, after which time she began to recoverhealth. So I left my house and betaking me to my shop sat therebuying and selling. and about midday behold, a great ugly blackslave, long as a lance and broad as a bench, passed by my shopholding in hand one of the three apples wherewith he was playing.Quoth I, "O my good slave, tell me whence thou tookest thatapple, that I may get the like of it?" He laughed and answered,"I got it from my mistress, for I had been absent and on myreturn I found her lying ill with three apples by her side, andshe said to me, 'My horned wittol of a husband made a journey forthem to Bassorah and bought them for three dinars.' So I ate anddrank with her and took this one from her." When I heardsuch words from the slave, O Commander of the Faithful, the worldgrew black before my face, and I arose and locked up my shop andwent home beside myself for excess of rage. I looked for theapples and finding only two of the three asked my wife, "O mycousin, where is the third apple?". and raising her headlanguidly she answered, "I wet not, O son of my uncle, where 'tisgone!" This convinced me that the slave had spoken the truth, soI took a knife and coming behind her got upon her breast withouta word said and cut her throat. Then I hewed off her head and herlimbs in pieces and, wrapping her in her mantilla and a rag ofcarpet, hurriedly sewed up the whole which I set in a chest and,locking it tight, loaded it on my he mule and threw it into theTigris with my own hands. So Allah upon thee, O Commander of theFaithful, make haste to hang me, as I fear lest she appeal forvengeance on Resurrection Day. For, when I had thrown her intothe river and none knew aught of it, as I went back home I foundmy eldest son crying and yet he knew naught of what I had donewith his mother. I asked him, "What hath made thee weep, my boy?"and he answered, "I took one of the three apples which were by mymammy and went down into the lane to play with my brethren whenbehold, a big long black slave snatched it from my hand and said.'Whence hadst thou this?' Quoth I, 'My father travelled far forit, and brought it from Bassorah for my mother who was ill andtwo other apples for which he paid three ducats.' He took no heedof my words and I asked for the apple a second and a third time,but he cuffed me and kicked me and went off with it. I was afraidlest my mother should swinge me on account of the apple, so forfear of her I went with my brother outside the city and stayedthere till evening closed in upon us. and indeed I am in fear ofher. and now by Allah, O my father, say nothing to her of this orit may add to her ailment!" When I heard what my child said Iknew that the slave was he who had foully slandered my wife, thedaughter of my uncle, and was certified that I had slain herwrong. fully. So I wept with exceeding weeping and presently thisold man, my paternal uncle and her father, came in. and I toldhim what had happened and he sat down by my side and wept and weceased not weeping till midnight. We have kept up mourning forher these last five days and we lamented her in the deepestsorrow for that she was unjustly done to die. This came from thegratuitous lying of the slave, the blackamoor, and this was themanner of my killing her. so I conjure thee, by the honour ofthine ancestors, make haste to kill me and do her justice uponme, as there is no living for me after her!" The Caliph marvelledat his words and said, "By Allah, the young man is excusable: Iwill hang none but the accursed slave and I will do a deed whichshall comfort the ill at ease and suffering, and which shallplease the All glorious King." And Shahrazad perceived the dawnof day and ceased saying her permitted say,When it was the Twentieth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Caliphswore he would hang none but the slave, for the youth wasexcusable. Then he turned to Ja'afar and said to him, "Bringbefore me this accursed slave who was the sole cause of thiscalamity. and, if thou bring him not before me within three days,thou shalt be slain in his stead." So Ja'afar fared forth weepingand saying. "Two deaths have already beset me, nor shall thecrock come of safe from every shock.' In this mattercraft and cunning are of no avail. but He who preserved my lifethe first time can preserve it a second time. By Allah, I willnot leave my house during the three days of life which remain tome and let the Truth (whose perfection be praised!) do e'en as Hewill." So he kept his house three days, and on the fourth day hesummoned the Kazis and legal witnesses and made his last will andtestament, and took leave of his children weeping. Presently incame a messenger from the Caliph and said to him, "The Commanderof the Faithful is in the most violent rage that can be, and hesendeth to seek thee and he sweareth that the day shall certainlynot pass without thy being hanged unless the slave be forth coming."When Ja'afar heard this he wept, and his children andslaves and all who were in the house wept with him. After he hadbidden adieu to everybody except his youngest daughter, heproceeded to farewell her. for he loved this wee one, who was abeautiful child, more than all his other children. and he pressedher to his breast and kissed her and wept bitterly at partingfrom her. when he felt something round inside the bosom of herdress and asked her, "O my little maid, what is in thy bosompocket?". "O my father," she replied, "it is an apple with thename of our Lord the Caliph written upon it. Rayhan our slavebrought it to me four days ago and would not let me have it tillI gave him two dinars for it." When Ja'afar heard speak of theslave and the apple, he was glad and put his hand into hischild's pocket and drew out the apple and knew it andrejoiced saying, "O ready Dispeller of trouble " Then hebade them bring the slave and said to him, "Fie upon thee,Rayhan! whence haddest thou this apple?" "By Allah, O my master,"he replied, "though a lie may get a man once off, yet may truthget him off, and well off, again and again. I did not steal thisapple from thy palace nor from the gardens of the Commander ofthe Faithful. The fact is that five days ago, as I was walkingalong one of the alleys of this city, I saw some little ones atplay and this apple in hand of one of them. So I snatched it fromhim and beat him and he cried and said, 'O youth this apple is mymother's and she is ill. She told my father how she longed for anapple, so he travelled to Bassorah and bought her three applesfor three gold pieces, and I took one of them to play withal.' Hewept again, but I paid no heed to what he said and carried it offand brought it here, and my little lady bought it of me for twodinars of gold. And this is the whole story." When Ja'afar heardhis words he marvelled that the murder of the damsel and all thismisery should have been caused by his slave. he grieved for therelation of the slave to himself, while rejoicing over his owndeliverance, and he repeated these lines:  "If ill betide thee through thy slave, Make him forthright thysacrifice:A many serviles thou shalt find, But life comes once and nevertwice."Then he took the slave's hand and, leading him to the Caliph,related the story from first to last and the Caliph marvelledwith extreme astonishment, and laughed till he fell on his backand ordered that the story be recorded and be made public amongstthe people. But Ja'afar said, "Marvel not, O Commander of theFaithful, at this adventure, for it is not more wondrous than theHistory of the Wazir Nur al Din Ali of Egypt and his brotherShams al Din Mohammed.   Quoth the Caliph, "Out with it. butwhat can be stranger than this story?" And Ja'afar answered, "OCommander of the Faithful, I will not tell it thee, save oncondition that thou pardon my slave." and the Caliph rejoined,"If it be indeed more wondrous than that of the three apples, Igrant thee his blood, and if not I will surely slay thy slave."So Ja'afar began in these words the