Once upon a time there was a peasant's wife, a good, simple soul whowas just returning from the market. She hadalmost reached home when she met a young man on the road who wascontinuously looking up toward heaven."What is the meaning of that?" thought the old woman, and when she camecloser to him, she asked, "My friend, why areyou looking up into the air? Did something happen up there?""Dear woman," he said, "I just fell from heaven, and now I cannot find thehole again.""So," said the old woman, "if you just fell from heaven, then you mustknow your way around up there pretty well?""Of course," said the young man."Then perhaps you know my son Kees, who died last year?""Kees," said the man. "Is he your son? And you ask me if I know him? Mydear woman, he is my nearest neighbor!""That is wonderful," said the old woman, "and how is he doing?""Quite well! Quite well! But last week he was complaining that hisstockings are worn out. And the sausage, the ham, andthe butter are all gone, but other than that he is doing well.""Oh, man, oh, man! Isn't there anyone there who can take care of hisclothes?""No," said the man, "in heaven you have to take care of your own clothes.""Can't he buy sausage and butter?""Yes, they are for sale, but everything is terribly expensive, and hecannot afford what is there.""Oh dear, it is too bad that Kees still has to be in need now that he isdead. And I could well afford to give him something!"Then the man told her exactly how Kees was doing, and what he was doing,and where he lived. Finally he said that he hadto go, otherwise he would be late in returning to heaven."Are you going back to heaven now?" asked the old woman."Yes, indeed," he said."Then because you know Kees so well, would you be so kind as to do me agreat favor? Come home with me, and I willpack a few things that you can give to him.""Well," he said, "I will do it because it is for Kees, but I shall get myears pulled for being away so long."They went together to the farmhouse, and the old woman prepared twopackages: one for the man who had fallen fromheaven, because he had been so friendly, and one for Kees, but the packagefor Kees was the larger one. She also gave hima bag of money for her son. Then he took leave in order to make his returntrip.Thinking, "Kees will be so happy when his neighbor comes home, and Keeshears that he has been here," the old womanwatched him until he was out of sight.She never learned if Kees received her package. A short time ago someonetold me that this was because the man still hasnot found the hole through which he had fallen from heaven.