A tailor and a goldsmith were journeying together whenone evening, just as the sun had sunk behind the mountains, they heard thesound of distant music. It grew more and more distinct. It had a strangesound, but was so pleasing that they forgot their fatigue and walkedspeedily ahead. The moon had already risen when they arrived at a hill,upon which they viewed a large number of small men and women who wereholding hands and dancing around and cheerfully singing with the greatestpleasure and happiness. That was the music that the wanderers hadheard. An old man, somewhat larger than the others, sat in their midst.He wore a brightly colored jacket, and his ice gray beard hung down overhis chest. Filled with amazement, the two wanderers stopped and watchedthe dance. The old man motioned to them that they too should join in, andthe little people voluntarily opened their circle. The goldsmith, whohad a hump on his back, and   like all hunchbacks   was forward enough,stepped right up. The tailor was at first a little shy and held back, butas soon as he saw what fun it was, he too took heart and joined in.They closed the circle again, and the little people sang and danced wildlyforth. However, the old man took a broad knife, that had been hangingfrom his belt, sharpened it, and as soon as it was sufficiently sharpened,looked at the strangers. They were frightened, but they did not have toworry for long. The old man grabbed the goldsmith and with the greatestspeed smoothly shaved off his beard and the hair from his head. Then thesame thing happened to the tailor. Their fear disappeared when the oldman patted them friendly on their shoulders as if he wanted to say thatthey had done well by letting it all happen without resisting. With hisfinger he pointed toward a pile of coal that lay nearby, and indicated tothem through gestures that they should fill their pockets with it. Theyboth obeyed, although they did not know of what use the coal would be tothem. Then they went on their way to seek out a place to spend thenight. They had just arrived in the valley when the bell from aneighboring monastery struck twelve. The singing ceased instantly.Everyone disappeared, and the hill lay in lonely moonlight. The twowanderers found shelter. Lying on beds of straw, they covered themselveswith their jackets. They were so tired that they forgot to take the coalout of their pockets first. They were awakened earlier than normal by aheavy weight pressing down on their limbs. They reached into theirpockets, and could hardly believe their eyes when they saw that they werenot filled with coal, but with pure gold. Further, their hair and theirbeards had also been fully restored. Now they were rich. However, thegoldsmith had twice as much as the tailor, because   true to his greedynature   he had filled his pockets better. However much a greedy personhas, he always wants more, so the goldsmith proposed to the tailor thatthey stay there another day in order to be able to gain even more wealthfrom the old man on the mountain that evening. The tailor did not wantto do this, and said: "I have enough and am satisfied. I am going tobecome a master, marry my pleasant object (as he called his sweetheart),and be a happy man." However, to please the goldsmith, he agreed tostay one more day. That evening the goldsmith hung several bags overhis shoulders in order to be able to carry everything, and set off for thehill. As had happened the night before, he found the little peopledancing and singing. The old man shaved him smooth once again, andindicated that he should take some coal. Without hesitating he packedaway as much as his pockets and bags would hold, and then happily returnedhome.Covering himself with his jacket he said: "I can bear it, if the goldpresses down on me." With the sweet premonition that he would awakentomorrow as a very rich man, he fell asleep. When he opened his eyes,he got up quickly in order to examine his pockets and bags. How astoundedhe was,that he pulled out nothing but black coal, however often he reachedinside. "Anyway, I still have the gold from the night before," hethought, and reached for it. Horrified, he saw that it too had turnedback into coal. He struck himself on the forehead with his grimy hand,and felt that his entire head was as bald and smooth as his beardlesschin. Nor was that the end of his misfortune. Only now did he noticethat in addition the hump on his back, a second one, of the same size, hadgrown onto his chest. Now he recognized the punishment for his greed andbegan to cry aloud. The good tailor, who had been awakened by all this,consoled the unhappy man as best he could, saying: "You were my travelingcompanion, and you can stay with me now and live from my treasure." Hekept his word, but the poor goldsmith had to bear two humps and cover hisbald head with a cap as long as he lived.