In old times, when all kinds of wonderful things happened in Brittany,there lived in the village of Lanillis, a young man named Houarn Pogammand a girl called Bellah Postik. They were cousins, and as their motherswere great friends, and constantly in and out of each other's houses,they had often been laid in the same cradle, and had played and foughtover their games.'When they are grown up they will marry,' said the mothers. but just asevery one was beginning to think of wedding bells, the two mothers died,and the cousins, who had no money, went as servants in the same house.This was better than being parted, of course, but not so good as havinga little cottage of their own, where they could do as they liked, andsoon they might have been heard bewailing to each other the hardness oftheir lots.'If we could only manage to buy a cow and get a pig to fatten,' grumbledHouarn, 'I would rent a bit of ground from the master, and then we couldbe married.''Yes,' answered Bellah, with a deep sigh. 'but we live in such hardtimes, and at the last fair the price of pigs had risen again.''We shall have long to wait, that is quite clear,' replied Houarn,turning away to his work.Whenever they met they repeated their grievances, and at length Houarn'spatience was exhausted, and one morning he came to Bellah and told herthat he was going away to seek his fortune.The girl was very unhappy as she listened to this, and felt sorry thatshe had not tried to make the best of things. She implored Houarn not toleave her, but he would listen to nothing.'The birds,' he said, 'continue flying until they reach a field of corn,and the bees do not stop unless they find the honey giving flowers, andwhy should a man have less sense than they? Like them, I shall seek tillI get what I want that is, money to buy a cow and a pig to fatten. Andif you love me, Bellah, you won't attempt to hinder a plan which willhasten our marriage.'The girl saw it was useless to say more, so she answered sadly:'Well, go then, since you must. But first I will divide with you allthat my parents left me,' and going to her room, she opened a smallchest, and took from it a bell, a knife, and a little stick.'This bell,' she said, 'can be heard at any distance, however far, butit only rings to warn us that our friends are in great danger. The knifefrees all it touches from the spells that have been laid on them. whilethe stick will carry you wherever you want to go. I will give you theknife to guard you against the enchantments of wizards, and the bell totell me of your perils. The stick I shall keep for myself, so that I canfly to you if ever you have need of me.'Then they cried for a little on each other's necks, and Houarn startedfor the mountains.But in those days, as in these, beggars abounded, and through everyvillage he passed they followed Houarn in crowds, mistaking him for agentleman, because there were no holes in his clothes.'There is no fortune to be made here,' he thought to himself. 'it is aplace for spending, and not earning. I see I must go further,' and hewalked on to Pont aven, a pretty little town built on the bank of ariver.He was sitting on a bench outside an inn, when he heard two men who wereloading their mules talking about the Groac'h of the island of Lok.'What is a Groac'h?' asked he. 'I have never come across one.' And themen answered that it was the name given to the fairy that dwelt in thelake, and that she was rich oh! richer than all the kings in the worldput together. Many had gone to the island to try and get possession ofher treasures, but no one had ever come back.As he listened Houarn's mind was made up.'I will go, and return too,' he said to the muleteers. They stared athim in astonishment, and besought him not to be so mad and to throw awayhis life in such a foolish manner. but he only laughed, and answeredthat if they could tell him of any other way in which to procure a cowand a pig to fatten, he would think no more about it. But the men didnot know how this was to be done, and, shaking their heads over hisobstinacy, left him to his fate.So Houarn went down to the sea, and found a boatman who engaged to takehim to the isle of Lok.The island was large, and lying almost across it was a lake, with anarrow opening to the sea. Houarn paid the boatman and sent him away,and then proceeded to walk round the lake. At one end he perceived asmall skiff, painted blue and shaped like a swan, lying under a clump ofyellow broom. As far as he could see, the swan's head was tucked underits wing, and Houarn, who had never beheld a boat of the sort, wentquickly towards it and stepped in, so as to examine it the better.But no sooner was he on board than the swan woke suddenly up. his heademerged from under his wing, his feet began to move in the water, and inanother moment they were in the middle of the lake.As soon as the young man had recovered from his surprise, he preparedto jump into the lake and swim to shore. But the bird had guessed hisintentions, and plunged beneath the water, carrying Houarn with him tothe palace of the Groac'h.Now, unless you have been under the sea and beheld all the wonders thatlie there, you can never have an idea what the Groac'h's palace waslike. It was all made of shells, blue and green and pink and lilac andwhite, shading into each other till you could not tell where one colourended and the other began. The staircases were of crystal, and everyseparate stair sang like a woodland bird as you put your foot on it.Round the palace were great gardens full of all the plants that grow inthe sea, with diamonds for flowers.In a large hall the Groac'h was lying on a couch of gold. The pink andwhite of her face reminded you of the shells of her palace, while herlong black hair was intertwined with strings of coral, and her dressof green silk seemed formed out of the sea. At the sight of her Houarnstopped, dazzled by her beauty.'Come in,' said the Groac'h, rising to her feet. 'Strangers and handsomeyouths are always welcome here. Do not be shy, but tell me how you foundyour way, and what you want.''My name is Houarn,' he answered, 'Lanillis is my home, and I am tryingto earn enough money to buy a little cow and a pig to fatten.''Well, you can easily get that,' replied she. 'it is nothing to worryabout. Come in and enjoy yourself.' And she beckoned him to follow herinto a second hall whose floors and walls were formed of pearls, whiledown the sides there were tables laden with fruit and wines of allkinds. and as he ate and drank, the Groac'h talked to him and told himhow the treasures he saw came from shipwrecked vessels, and were broughtto her palace by a magic current of water.'I do not wonder,' exclaimed Houarn, who now felt quite at home 'I donot wonder that the people on the earth have so much to say about you.''The rich are always envied.''For myself,' he added, with a laugh, 'I only ask for the half of yourwealth.''You can have it, if you will, Houarn,' answered the fairy.'What do you mean?' cried he.'My husband, Korandon, is dead,' she replied, 'and if you wish it, Iwill marry you.'The young man gazed at her in surprise. Could any one so rich and sobeautiful really wish to be his wife? He looked at her again, and Bellahwas forgotten as he answered:'A man would be mad indeed to refuse such an offer. I can only accept itwith joy.''Then the sooner it is done the better,' said the Groac'h, and gaveorders to her servants. After that was finished, she begged Houarn toaccompany her to a fish pond at the bottom of the garden.'Come lawyer, come miller, come tailor, come singer!' cried she, holdingout a net of steel. and at each summons a fish appeared and jumped intothe net. When it was full she went into a large kitchen and threw themall into a golden pot. but above the bubbling of the water Houarn seemedto hear the whispering of little voices.'Who is it whispering in the golden pot, Groac'h?' he inquired at last.'It is nothing but the noise of the wood sparkling,' she answered. butit did not sound the least like that to Houarn.'There it is again,' he said, after a short pause.'The water is getting hot, and it makes the fish jump,' she replied. butsoon the noise grew louder and like cries.'What is it?' asked Houarn, beginning to feel uncomfortable.'Just the crickets on the hearth,' said she, and broke into a song whichdrowned the cries from the pot.But though Houarn held his peace, he was not as happy as before.Something seemed to have gone wrong, and then he suddenly rememberedBellah.'Is it possible I can have forgotten her so soon? What a wretch I am!'he thought to himself. and he remained apart and watched the Groac'hwhile she emptied the fish into a plate, and bade him eat his dinnerwhile she fetched wine from her cellar in a cave.Houarn sat down and took out the knife which Bellah had given him, butas soon as the blade touched the fish the enchantment ceased, and fourmen stood before him.'Houarn, save us, we entreat you, and save yourself too!' murmured they,not daring to raise their voices.'Why, it must have been you who were crying out in the pot just now!'exclaimed Houarn.'Yes, it was us,' they answered. 'Like you, we came to the isle of Lokto seek our fortunes, and like you we consented to marry the Groac'h,and no sooner was the ceremony over than she turned us into fishes, asshe had done to all our forerunners, who are in the fish pond still,where you will shortly join them.'On hearing this Houarn leaped into the air, as if he already felthimself frizzling in the golden pot. He rushed to the door, hoping toescape that way. but the Groac'h, who had heard everything, met him onthe threshold. Instantly she threw the steel net over his head, and theeyes of a little green frog peeped through the meshes.'You shall go and play with the rest,' she said, carrying him off to thefish pond.It was at this very moment that Bellah, who was skimming the milk in thefarm dairy, heard the fairy bell tinkle violently.At the sound she grew pale, for she knew it meant that Houarn was indanger. and, hastily, changing the rough dress she wore for her work,she left the farm with the magic stick in her hand.Her knees were trembling under her, but she ran as fast as she could tothe cross roads, where she drove her stick into the ground, murmuring asshe did so a verse her mother had taught her:Little staff of apple tree,Over the earth and over the sea,Up in the air be guide to me,Everywhere to wander free,and immediately the stick became a smart little horse, with a rosetteat each ear and a feather on his forehead. He stood quite still whileBellah scrambled up, then he started off, his pace growing quicker andquicker, till at length the girl could hardly see the trees and housesas they flashed past. But, rapid as the pace was, it was not rapidenough for Bellah, who stooped and said:'The swallow is less swift than the wind, the wind is less swift thanthe lightning. But you, my horse, if you love me, must be swifter thanthem all, for there is a part of my heart that suffers the best partof my heart that is in danger.'And the horse heard her, and galloped like a straw carried along bya tempest till they reached the foot of a rock called the Leap of theDeer. There he stopped, for no horse or mule that ever was born couldclimb that rock, and Bellah knew it, so she began to sing again:Horse of Leon, given to me,Over the earth and over the sea,Up in the air be guide to me,Everywhere to wander free,and when she had finished, the horse's fore legs grew shorter and spreadinto wings, his hind legs became claws, feathers sprouted all over hisbody, and she sat on the back of a great bird, which bore her to thesummit of the rock. Here she found a nest made of clay and lined withdried moss, and in the centre a tiny man, black and wrinkled, who gave acry of surprise at the sight of Bellah.'Ah! you are the pretty girl who was to come and save me!''To save you!' repeated Bellah. 'But who are you, my little friend?''I am the husband of the Groac'h of the isle of Lok, and it is owing toher that I am here.''But what are you doing in this nest?''I am sitting on six eggs of stone, and I shall not be set free tillthey are hatched.'On hearing this Bellah began to laugh.'Poor little cock!' she said, 'and how am I to deliver you?''By delivering Houarn, who is in the power of the Groac'h.''Ah! tell me how I can manage that, and if I have to walk round thewhole of Brittany on my bended knees I will do it!''Well, first you must dress yourself as a young man, and then go andseek the Groac'h. When you have found her you must contrive to get holdof the net of steel that hangs from her waist, and shut her up in it forever.''But where am I to find a young man's clothes?' asked she.'I will show you,' he replied, and as he spoke he pulled out three ofhis red hairs and blew them away, muttering something the while. In thetwinkling of an eye the four hairs changed into four tailors, of whomthe first carried a cabbage, the second a pair of scissors, the thirda needle, and the fourth an iron. Without waiting for orders, they satdown in the nest and, crossing their legs comfortably, began to preparethe suit of clothes for Bellah.With one of the leaves of the cabbage they made her a coat, and anotherserved for a waistcoat. but it took two for the wide breeches which werethen in fashion. The hat was cut from the heart of the cabbage, and apair of shoes from the thick stem. And when Bellah had put them all onyou would have taken her for a gentleman dressed in green velvet, linedwith white satin.She thanked the little men gratefully, and after a few moreinstructions, jumped on the back of her great bird, and was borne awayto the isle of Lok. Once there, she bade him transform himself back intoa stick, and with it in her hand she stepped into the blue boat, whichconducted her to the palace of shells.The Groac'h seemed overjoyed to see her, and told her that never beforehad she beheld such a handsome young man. Very soon she led her visitorinto the great hall, where wine and fruit were always waiting, andon the table lay the magic knife, left there by Houarn. Unseen by theGroac'h, Bellah hid it in a pocket of her green coat, and then followedher hostess into the garden, and to the pond which contained the fish,their sides shining with a thousand different colours.'Oh! what beautiful, beautiful creatures!' said she. 'I'm sure I shouldnever be tired of watching them.' And she sat down on the bank, withher elbows on her knees and her chin in her hands, her eyes fixed on thefishes as they flashed past.'Would you not like to stay here always?' asked the Groac'h. and Bellahanswered that she desired nothing better.'Then you have only to marry me,' said the Groac'h. 'Oh! don't say no,for I have fallen deeply in love with you.''Well, I won't say "No,"' replied Bellah, with a laugh, 'but you mustpromise first to let me catch one of those lovely fish in your net.''It is not so easy as it looks,' rejoined the Groac'h, smiling, 'buttake it, and try your luck.'Bellah took the net which the Groac'h held out, and, turning rapidly,flung it over the witch's head.'Become in body what you are in soul!' cried she, and in an instant thelovely fairy of the sea was a toad, horrible to look upon. She struggledhard to tear the net asunder, but it was no use. Bellah only drew itthe tighter, and, flinging the sorceress into a pit, she rolled a greatstone across the mouth, and left her.As she drew near the pond she saw a great procession of fishes advancingto meet her, crying in hoarse tones:'This is our lord and master, who has saved us from the net of steel andthe pot of gold!''And who will restore you to your proper shapes,' said Bellah, drawingthe knife from her pocket. But just as she was going to touch theforemost fish, her eyes fell on a green frog on his knees beside her,his little paws crossed over his little heart. Bellah felt as if fingerswere tightening round her throat, but she managed to cry:'Is this you, my Houarn? Is this you?''It is I,' croaked the little frog. and as the knife touched him he wasa man again, and, springing up, he clasped her in his arms.'But we must not forget the others,' she said at last, and began totransform the fishes to their proper shapes. There were so many of themthat it took quite a long time. Just as she had finished there arrivedthe little dwarf from the Deer's Leap in a car drawn by six cockchafers,which once had been the six stone eggs.'Here I am!' he exclaimed. 'You have broken the spell that held me, andnow come and get your reward,' and, dismounting from his chariot, he ledthem down into the caves filled with gold and jewels, and bade Bellahand Houarn take as much as they wanted.When their pockets were full, Bellah ordered her stick to become awinged carriage, large enough to bear them and the men they had rescuedback to Lanillis.There they were married the next day, but instead of setting uphousekeeping with the little cow and pig to fatten that they had so longwished for, they were able to buy lands for miles round for themselves,and gave each man who had been delivered from the Groac'h a small farm,where he lived happily to the end of his days.From 'Le Foyer Breton,' par E. Souvestre.