At Metz in Lorraine there lived a noble knight by the name of Alexanderwith his beautiful and virtuous wife Florentina. This knight vowed to makea pilgrimage to the Holy Grave. Unable to dissuade him from this journey,his sorrowful wife made for him a white shirt with a red cross and askedhim to wear it.The knight then journeyed abroad and was captured by the infidels. Heand his unfortunate companions were hitched to a plow and under the blowsof a whip were forced to till the fields until blood ran from theirbodies. Miraculously, only the shirt that Alexander had received from hiswife and which he always wore remained clean and unstained. Rain, sweat,and blood did it no harm, nor did it tear.The Sultan himself learned of this rare circumstance, and he asked theslave precisely about his name, where he was from, and who had given himthe shirt. The knight told him everything, adding, "I have the shirt frommy virtuous wife. That it remains so white proves to me her continuingfaithfulness and chastity."The pagan, his curiosity aroused by this news, resolved to secretlysend one of his people to Metz who should spare neither money nor propertyin order to seduce the knight's wife, and thus determine if the shirt'scolor would change.The foreigner journeyed to Lorraine, scouted out the wife, thenreported to her how miserable her husband was in the pagan land. Thisgreatly saddened her, but she remained steadfastly virtuous. The emissaryspent all his money in his unsuccessful attempts to seduce her, thenreturned to Turkey.Soon afterward Florentina dressed herself as a pilgrim, took up herharp, which she played very well, and set forth following foreign pagan.She caught up with him in Venice, then traveled with him to the land ofthe pagans, without his recognizing her in her disguise.Arriving at the pagan king's court, the pilgrim so captured him withsinging and playing that great presents were offered to her. Rejectingthem all, the pilgrim requested one of the captured Christians who wereplowing. The request was granted, and Florentina, unrecognized, went tothe prisoners, coming finally to the plow where her husband was hitched.Then she requested and received this prisoner, and together they journeyedsafely across the sea until they arrived home in Germany. While still atwo days' journey from Metz, the pilgrim said to Alexander, "Brother, ourpaths part here. As a remembrance give me a little piece from your shirt,whose miracle I have heard so much about, so that I can tell and convinceothers about it."The knight agreed to this, cut a piece from the shirt and gave it tothe pilgrim. Then they parted. However, Florentina took a shorter way andarrived in Metz one whole day earlier than he did. She put on heraccustomed women's clothes and awaited her husband's arrival. Alexandergreeted his wife most tenderly, but soon afterward his friends andrelatives began whispering to him that Florentina had traveled about theworld for twelve months, leading an immoral life and letting no one hearfrom her.Alexander, burning with anger, ordered a feast where he publiclyaccused his wife of unbecoming behavior. Saying nothing, she left theroom, went to her chamber, put on the pilgrim's garb that she had worn atthat time, took up her harp, and then reappeared. Holding the piece cutfrom his shirt in her hand, she proved that she had been the pilgrim whohad redeemed him from the plow. Then all her accusers fell silently at herfeet, and her husband tearfully begged her for forgiveness.