(This is a very old story: the Danes who used to fight with the Englishin King Alfred's time knew this story. They have carved on the rockspictures of some of the things that happen in the tale, and thosecarvings may still be seen. Because it is so old and so beautiful thestory is told here again, but it has a sad ending indeed it is allsad, and all about fighting and killing, as might be expected from theDanes.)ONCE upon a time there was a King in the North who had won many wars,but now he was old. Yet he took a new wife, and then another Prince, whowanted to have married her, came up against him with a great army. Theold King went out and fought bravely, but at last his sword broke, andhe was wounded and his men fled. But in the night, when the battle wasover, his young wife came out and searched for him among the slain, andat last she found him, and asked whether he might be healed. But he said'No,' his luck was gone, his sword was broken, and he must die. Andhe told her that she would have a son, and that son would be a greatwarrior, and would avenge him on the other King, his enemy. And he badeher keep the broken pieces of the sword, to make a new sword for hisson, and that blade should be called Gram.Then he died. And his wife called her maid to her and said, 'Let uschange clothes, and you shall be called by my name, and I by yours, lestthe enemy finds us.'So this was done, and they hid in a wood, but there some strangersmet them and carried them off in a ship to Denmark. And when they werebrought before the King, he thought the maid looked like a Queen, andthe Queen like a maid. So he asked the Queen, 'How do you know in thedark of night whether the hours are wearing to the morning?'And she said:'I know because, when I was younger, I used to have to rise and lightthe fires, and still I waken at the same time.''A strange Queen to light the fires,' thought the King.Then he asked the Queen, who was dressed like a maid, 'How do you knowin the dark of night whether the hours are wearing near the dawn?''My father gave me a gold ring,' said she, 'and always, ere the dawning,it grows cold on my finger.''A rich house where the maids wore gold,' said the King. 'Truly you areno maid, but a King's daughter.'So he treated her royally, and as time went on she had a son calledSigurd, a beautiful boy and very strong. He had a tutor to be with him,and once the tutor bade him go to the King and ask for a horse.'Choose a horse for yourself,' said the King. and Sigurd went to thewood, and there he met an old man with a white beard, and said, 'Come!help me in horse choosing.'Then the old man said, 'Drive all the horses into the river, and choosethe one that swims across.'So Sigurd drove them, and only one swam across. Sigurd chose him: hisname was Grani, and he came of Sleipnir's breed, and was the best horsein the world. For Sleipnir was the horse of Odin, the God of the North,and was as swift as the wind.But a day or two later his tutor said to Sigurd, 'There is a greattreasure of gold hidden not far from here, and it would become you towin it.'But Sigurd answered, 'I have heard stories of that treasure, and I knowthat the dragon Fafnir guards it, and he is so huge and wicked that noman dares to go near him.''He is no bigger than other dragons,' said the tutor, 'and if you wereas brave as your father you would not fear him.''I am no coward,' says Sigurd. 'why do you want me to fight with thisdragon?'Then his tutor, whose name was Regin, told him that all this great hoardof red gold had once belonged to his own father. And his father hadthree sons the first was Fafnir, the Dragon. the next was Otter, whocould put on the shape of an otter when he liked. and the next washimself, Regin, and he was a great smith and maker of swords.Now there was at that time a dwarf called Andvari, who lived in a poolbeneath a waterfall, and there he had hidden a great hoard of gold. Andone day Otter had been fishing there, and had killed a salmon and eatenit, and was sleeping, like an otter, on a stone. Then someone came by,and threw a stone at the otter and killed it, and flayed off the skin,and took it to the house of Otter's father. Then he knew his son wasdead, and to punish the person who had killed him he said he must havethe Otter's skin filled with gold, and covered all over with red gold,or it should go worse with him. Then the person who had killed Otterwent down and caught the Dwarf who owned all the treasure and took itfrom him.Only one ring was left, which the Dwarf wore, and even that was takenfrom him.Then the poor Dwarf was very angry, and he prayed that the gold mightnever bring any but bad luck to all the men who might own it, for ever.Then the otter skin was filled with gold and covered with gold, all butone hair, and that was covered with the poor Dwarf's last ring.But it brought good luck to nobody. First Fafnir, the Dragon, killed hisown father, and then he went and wallowed on the gold, and would let hisbrother have none, and no man dared go near it.When Sigurd heard the story he said to Regin:'Make me a good sword that I may kill this Dragon.'So Regin made a sword, and Sigurd tried it with a blow on a lump ofiron, and the sword broke.Another sword he made, and Sigurd broke that too.Then Sigurd went to his mother, and asked for the broken pieces of hisfather's blade, and gave them to Regin. And he hammered and wrought theminto a new sword, so sharp that fire seemed to burn along its edges.Sigurd tried this blade on the lump of iron, and it did not break, butsplit the iron in two. Then he threw a lock of wool into the river, andwhen it floated down against the sword it was cut into two pieces. SoSigurd said that sword would do. But before he went against the Dragonhe led an army to fight the men who had killed his father, and he slewtheir King, and took all his wealth, and went home.When he had been at home a few days, he rode out with Regin one morningto the heath where the Dragon used to lie. Then he saw the track whichthe Dragon made when he went to a cliff to drink, and the track was asif a great river had rolled along and left a deep valley.Then Sigurd went down into that deep place, and dug many pits in it, andin one of the pits he lay hidden with his sword drawn. There he waited,and presently the earth began to shake with the weight of the Dragonas he crawled to the water. And a cloud of venom flew before him as hesnorted and roared, so that it would have been death to stand beforehim.But Sigurd waited till half of him had crawled over the pit, and then hethrust the sword Gram right into his very heart.Then the Dragon lashed with his tail till stones broke and trees crashedabout him.Then he spoke, as he died, and said:'Whoever thou art that hast slain me this gold shall be thy ruin, andthe ruin of all who own it.'Sigurd said:'I would touch none of it if by losing it I should never die. But allmen die, and no brave man lets death frighten him from his desire. Diethou, Fafnir,' and then Fafnir died.And after that Sigurd was called Fafnir's Bane, and Dragonslayer.Then Sigurd rode back, and met Regin, and Regin asked him to roastFafnir's heart and let him taste of it.So Sigurd put the heart of Fafnir on a stake, and roasted it. But itchanced that he touched it with his finger, and it burned him. Then heput his finger in his mouth, and so tasted the heart of Fafnir.Then immediately he understood the language of birds, and he heard theWoodpeckers say:'There is Sigurd roasting Fafnir's heart for another, when he shouldtaste of it himself and learn all wisdom.'The next bird said:'There lies Regin, ready to betray Sigurd, who trusts him.'The third bird said:'Let him cut off Regin's head, and keep all the gold to himself.'The fourth bird said:'That let him do, and then ride over Hindfell, to the place whereBrynhild sleeps.'When Sigurd heard all this, and how Regin was plotting to betray him, hecut off Regin's head with one blow of the sword Gram.Then all 'he birds broke out singing:'We know a fair maid,A fair maiden sleeping.Sigurd, be not afraid,Sigurd, win thou the maidFortune is keeping.'High over HindfellRed fire is flaming,There doth the maiden dwellShe that should love thee well,Meet for thy taming.'There must she sleep till thouComest for her wakingRise up and ride, for nowSure she will swear the vowFearless of breaking.'Then Sigurd remembered how the story went that somewhere, far away,there was a beautiful lady enchanted. She was under a spell, so that shemust always sleep in a castle surrounded by flaming fire. there she mustsleep for ever till there came a knight who would ride through the fireand waken her. There he determined to go, but first he rode right downthe horrible trail of Fafnir. And Fafnir had lived in a cave with irondoors, a cave dug deep down in the earth, and full of gold bracelets,and crowns, and rings. and there, too, Sigurd found the Helm of Dread, agolden helmet, and whoever wears it is invisible. All these he piled onthe back of the good horse Grani, and then he rode south to Hindfell.Now it was night, and on the crest of the hill Sigurd saw a red fireblazing up into the sky, and within the flame a castle, and a banneron the topmost tower. Then he set the horse Grani at the fire, and heleaped through it lightly, as if it had been through the heather. SoSigurd went within the castle door, and there he saw someone sleeping,clad all in armour. Then he took the helmet off the head of the sleeper,and behold, she was a most beautiful lady. And she wakened and said,'Ah! is it Sigurd, Sigmund's son, who has broken the curse, and comeshere to waken me at last?'This curse came upon her when the thorn of the tree of sleep ran intoher hand long ago as a punishment because she had displeased Odin theGod. Long ago, too, she had vowed never to marry a man who knew fear,and dared not ride through the fence of flaming fire. For she was awarrior maid herself, and went armed into the battle like a man. But nowshe and Sigurd loved each other, and promised to be true to each other,and he gave her a ring, and it was the last ring taken from the dwarfAndvari. Then Sigurd rode away, and he came to the house of a King whohad a fair daughter. Her name was Gudrun, and her mother was a witch.Now Gudrun fell in love with Sigurd, but he was always talking ofBrynhild, how beautiful she was and how dear. So one day Gudrun's witchmother put poppy and forgetful drugs in a magical cup, and bade Sigurddrink to her health, and he drank, and instantly he forgot poor Brynhildand he loved Gudrun, and they were married with great rejoicings.Now the witch, the mother of Gudrun, wanted her son Gunnar to marryBrynhild, and she bade him ride out with Sigurd and go and woo her. Soforth they rode to her father's house, for Brynhild had quite gone outof Sigurd's mind by reason of the witch's wine, but she remembered himand loved him still. Then Brynhild's father told Gunnar that she wouldmarry none but him who could ride the flame in front of her enchantedtower, and thither they rode, and Gunnar set his horse at the flame,but he would not face it. Then Gunnar tried Sigurd's horse Grani, buthe would not move with Gunnar on his back. Then Gunnar rememberedwitchcraft that his mother had taught him, and by his magic he madeSigurd look exactly like himself, and he looked exactly like Gunnar.Then Sigurd, in the shape of Gunnar and in his mail, mounted on Grani,and Grani leaped the fence of fire, and Sigurd went in and foundBrynhild, but he did not remember her yet, because of the forgetfulmedicine in the cup of the witch's wine.Now Brynhild had no help but to promise she would be his wife, the wifeof Gunnar as she supposed, for Sigurd wore Gunnar's shape, and she hadsworn to wed whoever should ride the flames. And he gave her a ring, andshe gave him back the ring he had given her before in his own shape asSigurd, and it was the last ring of that poor dwarf Andvari. Then herode out again, and he and Gunnar changed shapes, and each was himselfagain, and they went home to the witch Queen's, and Sigurd gave thedwarf's ring to his wife, Gudrun. And Brynhild went to her father, andsaid that a King had come called Gunnar, and had ridden the fire, andshe must marry him. 'Yet I thought,' she said, 'that no man could havedone this deed but Sigurd, Fafnir's bane, who was my true love. But hehas forgotten me, and my promise I must keep.'So Gunnar and Brynhild were married, though it was not Gunnar but Sigurdin Gunnar's shape, that had ridden the fire.And when the wedding was over and all the feast, then the magic ofthe witch's wine went out of Sigurd's brain, and he remembered all. Heremembered how he had freed Brynhild from the spell, and how she was hisown true love, and how he had forgotten and had married another woman,and won Brynhild to be the wife of another man.But he was brave, and he spoke not a word of it to the others to makethem unhappy. Still he could not keep away the curse which was to comeon every one who owned the treasure of the dwarf Andvari, and his fatalgolden ring.And the curse soon came upon all of them. For one day, when Brynhildand Gudrun were bathing, Brynhild waded farthest out into the river, andsaid she did that to show she was Gudrun's superior. For her husband,she said, had ridden through the flame when no other man dared face it.Then Gudrun was very angry, and said that it was Sigurd, not Gunnar, whohad ridden the flame, and had received from Brynhild that fatal ring,the ring of the dwarf Andvari.Then Brynhild saw the ring which Sigard had given to Gudrun, and sheknew it and knew all, and she turned as pale as a dead woman, and wenthome. All that evening she never spoke. Next day she told Gunnar, herhusband, that he was a coward and a liar, for he had never ridden theflame, but had sent Sigurd to do it for him, and pretended that he haddone it himself. And she said he would never see her glad in his hall,never drinking wine, never playing chess, never embroidering with thegolden thread, never speaking words of kindness. Then she rent all herneedlework asunder and wept aloud, so that everyone in the house heardher. For her heart was broken, and her pride was broken in the samehour. She had lost her true love, Sigurd, the slayer of Fafnir, and shewas married to a man who was a liar.Then Sigurd came and tried to comfort her, but she would not listen, andsaid she wished the sword stood fast in his heart.'Not long to wait,' he said, 'till the bitter sword stands fast in myheart, and thou will not live long when I am dead. But, dear Brynhild,live and be comforted, and love Gunnar thy husband, and I will give theeall the gold, the treasure of the dragon Fafnir.'Brynhild said:'It is too late.'Then Sigurd was so grieved and his heart so swelled in his breast thatit burst the steel rings of his shirt of mail.Sigurd went out and Brynhild determined to slay him. She mixed serpent'svenom and wolf's flesh, and gave them in one dish to her husband'syounger brother, and when he had tasted them he was mad, and he wentinto Sigurd's chamber while he slept and pinned him to the bed with asword. But Sigurd woke, and caught the sword Gram into his hand, andthrew it at the man as he fled, and the sword cut him in twain. Thusdied Sigurd, Fafnir's bane, whom no ten men could have slain in fairfight. Then Gudrun wakened and saw him dead, and she moaned aloud, andBrynhild heard her and laughed. but the kind horse Grani lay down anddied of very grief. And then Brynhild fell a weeping till her heartbroke. So they attired Sigurd in all his golden armour, and built agreat pile of wood on board his ship, and at night laid on it the deadSigurd and the dead Brynhild, and the good horse, Grani, and set fireto it, and launched the ship. And the wind bore it blazing out tosea, flaming into the dark. So there were Sigurd and Brynhild burnedtogether, and the curse of the dwarf Andvari was fulfilled.(33)(33) The Volsunga Saga.