When the world first began there was no land, but only the sea and thesky, and between them was a kite (a bird something like a hawk). One daythe bird which had nowhere to light grew tired of flying about, so shestirred up the sea until it threw its waters against the sky. The sky, inorder to restrain the sea, showered upon it many islands until it could nolonger rise, but ran back and forth. Then the sky ordered the kite tolight on one of the islands to build her nest, and to leave the sea andthe sky in peace.Now at this time the land breeze and the sea breeze were married, and theyhad a child which was a bamboo. One day when this bamboo was floatingabout on the water, it struck the feet of the kite which was on the beach.The bird, angry that anything should strike it, pecked at the bamboo, andout of one section came a man and from the other a woman.Then the earthquake called on all the birds and fish to see what should bedone with these two, and it was decided that they should marry. Manychildren were born to the couple, and from them came all the differentraces of people.After a while the parents grew very tired of having so many idle anduseless children around, and they wished to be rid of them, but they knewof no place to send them to. Time went on and the children became sonumerous that the parents enjoyed no peace. One day, in desperation, thefather seized a stick and began beating them on all sides.This so frightened the children that they fled in different directions,seeking hidden rooms in the house   some concealed themselves in thewalls, some ran outside, while others hid in the fireplace, and severalfled to the sea.Now it happened that those who went into the hidden rooms of the houselater became the chiefs of the islands. and those who concealed themselvesin the walls became slaves. Those who ran outside were free men. and thosewho hid in the fireplace became negroes. while those who fled to the seawere gone many years, and when their children came back they were thewhite people.