There were once a Scotsman and an Englishman and an Irishman serving inthe army together, who took it into their heads to run away on the firstopportunity they could get. The chance came and they took it. Theywent on travelling for two days through a great forest, without food ordrink, and without coming across a single house, and every night theyhad to climb up into the trees through fear of the wild beasts that werein the wood. On the second morning the Scotsman saw from the top of histree a great castle far away. He said to himself that he would certainlydie if he stayed in the forest without anything to eat but the roots ofgrass, which would not keep him alive very long. As soon, then, as hegot down out of the tree he set off towards the castle, without so muchas telling his companions that he had seen it at all. perhaps the hungerand want they had suffered had changed their nature so much that theone did not care what became of the other if he could save himself. Hetravelled on most of the day, so that it was quite late when he reachedthe castle, and to his great disappointment found nothing but closeddoors and no smoke rising from the chimneys. He thought there wasnothing for it but to die after all, and had lain down beside the wall,when he heard a window being opened high above him. At this he lookedup, and saw the most beautiful woman he had ever set eyes on.'Oh, it is Fortune that has sent you to me,' he said.'It is indeed,' said she. 'What are you in need of, or what has sent youhere?''Necessity,' said he. 'I am dying for want of food and drink.''Come inside, then,' she said. 'there is plenty of both here.'Accordingly he went in to where she was, and she opened a large room forhim, where he saw a number of men lying asleep. She then set food beforehim, and after that showed him to the room where the others were. He laydown on one of the beds and fell sound asleep. And now we must go backto the two that he left behind him in the wood.When nightfall and the time of the wild beasts came upon these, theEnglishman happened to climb up into the very same tree on which theScotsman was when he got a sight of the castle. and as soon as the daybegan to dawn and the Englishman looked to the four quarters of heaven,what did he see but the castle too! Off he went without saying a word tothe Irishman, and everything happened to him just as it had done to theScotsman.The poor Irishman was now left all alone, and did not know wherethe others had gone to, so he just stayed where he was, very sad andmiserable. When night came he climbed up into the same tree as theEnglishman had been on the night before. As soon as day came he also sawthe castle, and set out towards it. but when he reached it he couldsee no signs of fire or living being about it. Before long, however, heheard the window opened above his head, looked up, and beheld the mostbeautiful woman he had ever seen. He asked if she would give him foodand drink, and she answered kindly and heartily that she would, if hewould only come inside. This he did very willingly, and she set beforehim food and drink that he had never seen the like of before. In theroom there was a bed, with diamond rings hanging at every loop of thecurtains, and everything that was in the room besides astonished him somuch that he actually forgot that he was hungry. When she saw that hewas not eating at all, she asked him what he wanted yet, to which hereplied that he would neither eat nor drink until he knew who she was,or where she came from, or who had put her there.'I shall tell you that,' said she. 'I am an enchanted Princess, and myfather has promised that the man who releases me from the spell shallhave the third of his kingdom while he is alive, and the whole of itafter he is dead, and marry me as well. If ever I saw a man who lookedlikely to do this, you are the one. I have been here for sixteen yearsnow, and no one who ever came to the castle has asked me who I was,except yourself. Every other man that has come, so long as I have beenhere, lies asleep in the big room down there.''Tell me, then,' said the Irishman, 'what is the spell that has beenlaid on you, and how you can be freed from it.''There is a little room there,' said the Princess, 'and if I could get aman to stay in it from ten o'clock till midnight for three nights on endI should be freed from the spell.''I am the man for you, then,' said he. 'I will take on hand to do it.'Thereupon she brought him a pipe and tobacco, and he went into the room.but before long he heard a hammering and knocking on the outside of thedoor, and was told to open it.'I won't,' he said.The next moment the door came flying in, and those outside along withit. They knocked him down, and kicked him, and knelt on his body till itcame to midnight. but as soon as the cock crew they all disappeared. TheIrishman was little more than alive by this time. As soon as daylightappeared the Princess came, and found him lying full length on thefloor, unable to speak a word. She took a bottle, rubbed him from headto foot with something from it, and thereupon he was as sound as ever.but after what he had got that night he was very unwilling to try it asecond time. The Princess, however, entreated him to stay, sayingthat the next night would not be so bad, and in the end he gave in andstayed.When it was getting near midnight he heard them ordering him to open thedoor, and there were three of them for every one that there had been theprevious evening. He did not make the slightest movement to go out tothem or to open the door, but before long they broke it up, and were inon top of him. They laid hold of him, and kept throwing him between themup to the ceiling, or jumping above him, until the cock crew, when theyall disappeared. When day came the Princess went to the room to see ifhe was still alive, and taking the bottle put it to his nostrils, whichsoon brought him to himself. The first thing he said then was that hewas a fool to go on getting himself killed for anyone he ever saw, andwas determined to be off and stay there no longer, When the Princesslearned his intention she entreated him to stay, reminding him thatanother night would free her from the spell. 'Besides,' she said, 'ifthere is a single spark of life in you when the day comes, the stuffthat is in this bottle will make you as sound as ever you were.'With all this the Irishman decided to stay. but that night there werethree at him for every one that was there the two nights before, andit looked very unlikely that he would be alive in the morning after allthat he got. When morning dawned, and the Princess came to see if he wasstill alive, she found him lying on the floor as if dead. She tried tosee if there was breath in him, but could not quite make it out.Then she put her hand on his pulse, and found a faint movement in it.Accordingly she poured what was in the bottle on him, and before longhe rose up on his feet, and was as well as ever he was. So that businesswas finished, and the Princess was freed from the spell.The Princess then told the Irishman that she must go away for thepresent, but would return for him in a few days in a carriage drawn byfour grey horses. He told her to 'be aisy,' and not speak like that tohim. 'I have paid dear for you for the last three nights,' he said, 'ifI have to part with you now.' but in the twinkling of an eye she haddisappeared. He did not know what to do with himself when he saw thatshe was gone, but before she went she had given him a little rod, withwhich he could, when he pleased, waken the men who had been sleepingthere, some of them for sixteen years.After being thus left alone, he went in and stretched himself on threechairs that were in the room, when what does he see coming in at thedoor but a little fair haired lad.'Where did you come from, my lad?' said the Irishman.'I came to make ready your food for you,' said he.'Who told you to do that?' said the Irishman.'My mistress,' answered the lad 'the Princess that was under the spelland is now free.'By this the Irishman knew that she had sent the lad to wait on him. Thelad also told him that his mistress wished him to be ready next morningat nine o'clock, when she would come for him with the carriage, as shehad promised. He was greatly pleased at this, and next morning, whenthe time was drawing near, went out into the garden. but the littlefair haired lad took a big pin out of his pocket, and stuck it into theback of the Irishman's coat without his noticing it, whereupon he fellsound asleep.Before long the Princess came with the carriage and four horses, andasked the lad whether his master was awake. He said that he wasn't. 'Itis bad for him,' said she, 'when the night is not long enough for him tosleep. Tell him that if he doesn't meet me at this time to morrow it isnot likely that he will ever see me again all his life.'As soon as she was gone the lad took the pin out of his master's coat,who instantly awoke. The first word he said to the lad was, 'Have youseen her?''Yes,' said he, 'and she bade me tell you that if you don't meet her atnine o'clock to morrow you will never see her again.'He was very sorry when he heard this, and could not understand why thesleep should have fallen upon him just when she was coming. He decided,however, to go early to bed that night, in order to rise in time nestmorning, and so he did. When it was getting near nine o'clock he wentout to the garden to wait till she came, and the fair haired lad alongwith him. but as soon as the lad got the chance he stuck the pin intohis master's coat again and he fell asleep as before. Precisely at nineo'clock came the Princess in the carriage with four horses, and askedthe lad if his master had got up yet. but he said 'No, he was asleep,just as he was the day before.' 'Dear! dear!' said the Princess, 'I amsorry for him. Was the sleep he had last night not enough for him? Tellhim that he will never see me here again. and here is a sword that youwill give him in my name, and my blessing along with it.'With this she went off, and as soon as she had gone the lad took the pinout of his master's coat. He awoke instantly, and the first word he saidwas, 'Have you seen her?' The lad said that he had, and there was thesword she had left for him. The Irishman was ready to kill the lad outof sheer vexation, but when he gave a glance over his shoulder not atrace of the fair haired lad was left.Being thus left all alone, he thought of going into the room where allthe men were lying asleep, and there among the rest he found his twocomrades who had deserted along with him. Then he remembered what thePrincess had told him that he had only to touch them with the rod shehad given him and they would all awake. and the first he touched werehis own comrades. They started to their feet at once, and he gave themas much silver and gold as they could carry when they went away. Therewas plenty to do before he got all the others wakened, for the two doorsof the castle were crowded with them all the day long.The loss of the Princess, however, kept rankling in his mind day andnight, till finally he thought he would go about the world to see if hecould find anyone to give him news of her. So he took the best horse inthe stable and set out. Three years he spent travelling through forestsand wildernesses, but could find no one able to tell him anything of thePrincess. At last he fell into so great despair that he thought he wouldput an end to his own life, and for this purpose laid hold of the swordthat she had given him by the hands of the fair haired lad. but ondrawing it from its sheath he noticed that there was some writing on oneside of the blade. He looked at this, and read there, 'You will find mein the Blue Mountains.' This made him take heart again, and he gave upthe idea of killing himself, thinking that he would go on in hope ofmeeting some one who could tell him where the Blue Mountains were. Afterhe had gone a long way without thinking where he was going, he saw atlast a light far away, and made straight for it. On reaching it he foundit came from a little house, and as soon as the man inside heard thenoise of the horse's feet he came out to see who was there. Seeing astranger on horseback, he asked what brought him there and where he wasgoing.'I have lived here,' said he, 'for three hundred years, and all thattime I have not seen a single human being but yourself.''I have been going about for the last three years,' said the Irishman,'to see if I could find anyone who can tell me where the Blue Mountainsare.''Come in,' said the old man, 'and stay with me all night. I have abook which contains the history of the world, which I shall go throughto night, and if there is such a place as the Blue Mountains in it weshall find it out.'The Irishman stayed there all night, and as soon as morning came roseto go. The old man said he had not gone to sleep all night for goingthrough the book, but there was not a word about the Blue Mountainsin it. 'But I'll tell you what,' he said, 'if there is such a place onearth at all, I have a brother who lives nine hundred miles from here,and he is sure to know where they are, if anyone in this world does.'The Irishman answered that he could never go these nine hundred miles,for his horse was giving in already. 'That doesn't matter,' said the oldman. 'I can do better than that. I have only to blow my whistle and youwill be at my brother's house before nightfall.'So he blew the whistle, and the Irishman did not know where on earth hewas until he found himself at the other old man's door, who also toldhim that it was three hundred years since he had seen anyone, and askedhim where he was going.'I am going to see if I can find anyone that can tell me where the BlueMountains are,' he said.'If you will stay with me to night,' said the old man, 'I have a bookof the history of the world, and I shall know where they are beforedaylight, if there is such a place in it at all.'He stayed there all night, but there was not a word in the book aboutthe Blue Mountains. Seeing that he was rather cast down, the old mantold him that he had a brother nine hundred miles away, and that ifinformation could be got about them from anyone it would be from him.'and I will enable you,' he said, 'to reach the place where he livesbefore night.' So he blew his whistle, and the Irishman landed at thebrother's house before nightfall. When the old man saw him he said hehad not seen a single man for three hundred years, and was very muchsurprised to see anyone come to him now.'Where are you going to?' he said.'I am going about asking for the Blue Mountains,' said the Irishman.'The Blue Mountains?' said the old man.'Yes,' said the Irishman.'I never heard the name before. but if they do exist I shall find themout. I am master of all the birds in the world, and have only to blow mywhistle and every one will come to me. I shall then ask each of them totell where it came from, and if there is any way of finding out the BlueMountains that is it.'So he blew his whistle, and when he blew it then all the birds of theworld began to gather. The old man questioned each of them as to wherethey had come from, but there was not one of them that had come from theBlue Mountains. After he had run over them all, however, he missed abig Eagle that was wanting, and wondered that it had not come. Soonafterwards he saw something big coming towards him, darkening the sky.It kept coming nearer and growing bigger, and what was this after allbut the Eagle? When she arrived the old man scolded her, and asked whathad kept her so long behind.'I couldn't help it,' she said. 'I had more than twenty times further tocome than any bird that has come here to day.''Where have you come from, then?' said the old man.'From the Blue Mountains,' said she.'Indeed!' said the old man. and what are they doing there?''They are making ready this very day,' said the Eagle, 'for the marriageof the daughter of the King of the Blue Mountains. For three years nowshe has refused to marry anyone whatsoever, until she should give up allhope of the coming of the man who released her from the spell. Now shecan wait no longer, for three years is the time that she agreed with herfather to remain without marrying.'The Irishman knew that it was for himself she had been waiting solong, but he was unable to make any better of it, for he had no hope ofreaching the Blue Mountains all his life. The old man noticed how sad hegrew, and asked the Eagle what she would take for carrying this man onher back to the Blue Mountains.'I must have threescore cattle killed,' said she, 'and cut up intoquarters, and every time I look over my shoulder he must throw one ofthem into my mouth.'As soon as the Irishman and the old man heard her demand they went outhunting, and before evening they had killed three score cattle. Theymade quarters of them, as the Eagle told them, and then the old manasked her to lie down, till they would get it all heaped up on her back.First of all, though, they had to get a ladder of fourteen steps, toenable them to get on to the Eagle's back, and there they piled up themeat as well as they could. Then the old man told the Irishman to mount,and to remember to throw a quarter of beef to her every time she lookedround. He went up, and the old man gave the Eagle the word to be off,which she instantly obeyed. and every time she turned her head theIrishman threw a quarter of beef into her mouth.As they came near the borders of the kingdom of the Blue Mountains,however, the beef was done, and, when the Eagle looked over hershoulder, what was the Irishman at but throwing the stone between hertail and her neck! At this she turned a complete somersault, and threwthe Irishman off into the sea, where he fell into the bay that was rightin front of the King's Palace. Fortunately the points of his toes justtouched the bottom, and he managed to get ashore.When he went up into the town all the streets were gleaming with light,and the wedding of the Princess was just about to begin. He went intothe first house he came to, and this happened to be the house of theKing's hen wife. He asked the old woman what was causing all the noiseand light in the town.'The Princess,' said she, 'is going to be married to night against herwill, for she has been expecting every day that the man who freed herfrom the spell would come.''There is a guinea for you,' said he. 'go and bring her here.'The old woman went, and soon returned along with the Princess. She andthe Irishman recognised each other, and were married, and had a greatwedding that lasted for a year and a day.