Two fish lived in a pond. Their names were Satabuddhi (having theunderstanding of a hundred) and Sahasrabuddhi (having the understanding ofa thousand). The two of them had a frog for a friend, whose name wasEkabuddhi (having the understanding of one).For a time they would enjoy friendly conversation on the bank, and thenthey would return to the water. One day when they had gathered forconversation, some fishermen came by just as the sun was setting. Theywere carrying nets in their hands and many dead fish on their heads.When the fishermen saw the pond, they said to one another, "There seemto be a lot of fish in this pond, and the water is very low. Let us comeback here tomorrow morning!" After saying this, they went home.These words struck the three friends like a thunderbolt, and they tookcounsel with one another.The frog said, "Oh, my dear Satabuddhi and Sahasrabuddhi, what shall wedo? Should we flee, or stay here?"Hearing this, Sahasrabuddhi laughed and said, "Oh, my friend, don't beafraid of words alone! They probably will not come back. But even if theydo come back, I will be able to protect myself and you as well, throughthe power of my understanding, for I know many pathways through thewater."After hearing this, Satabuddhi said, "Yes, what Sahasrabuddhi says iscorrect, for one rightly says: Where neither the wind nor the sun'srays have found a way, intelligent understanding will quickly make apath . And also: Everything on earth is subject to the understandingof those with intelligence . Why should one abandon the place of one'sbirth that has been passed down from generation to generation, justbecause of words? We must not retreat a single step! I will protect youthrough the power of my understanding."The frog said, "I have but one wit, and it is advising me to flee. Thisvery day I shall go with my wife to another pond."After saying this, as soon as it was night, the frog went to anotherpond.Early the next day the fishermen came like servants of the god of deathand spread their nets over the pond. All the fish, turtles, frogs, crabs,and other water creatures were caught in the nets and captured, alsoSatabuddhi and Sahasrabuddhi, although they fled, and through theirknowledge of the various paths escaped for a while by swimming to and fro.But they too, together with their wives, fell into a net and were killed.That afternoon the fishermen happily set forth toward home. Because ofhis weight, one of them carried Satabuddhi on his head. They tiedSahasrabuddhi onto a string and dragged him along behind.The frog Ekabuddhi, who had climbed onto the bank of his pond, said tohis wife, "Look, dear! Mr. Hundred Wit lies on someone's head, and Mr.Thousand Wit is hanging from a string. But Mr. Single Wit, my dear, isplaying here in the clear water."