Know, O lord of the Kings of the Jann! that these two dogs are mybrothers and I am the third. Now when our father died and left usa capital of three thousand gold pieces, I opened a shopwith my share, and bought and sold therein, and in like guise didmy two brothers, each setting up a shop. But I had been inbusiness no long while before the elder sold his stock for athousand diners, and after buying outfit and merchandise, wenthis ways to foreign parts. He was absent one whole year with thecaravan. but one day as I sat in my shop, behold, a beggar stoodbefore me asking alms, and I said to him, "Allah open theeanother door!" Whereupon he answered, weeping the while,"Am I so changed that thou knowest me not?" Then I looked at himnarrowly, and lo! it was my brother, so I rose to him andwelcomed him. then I seated him in my shop and put questionsconcerning his case. "Ask me not," answered he. "my wealth isawaste and my state hath waxed unstated!" So I took him to theHammam bath and clad him in a suit of my own and gave himlodging in my house. Moreover, after looking over the accounts ofmy stock in trade and the profits of my business, I found thatindustry had gained me one thousand diners, while my principal,the head of my wealth, amounted to two thousand. So I shared thewhole with him saying, "Assume that thou hast made no journeyabroad but hast remained at home. and be not cast down by thineill luck." He took the share in great glee and opened for himselfa shop. and matters went on quietly for a few nights and days.But presently my second brother (yon other dog), also setting hisheart upon travel, sold off what goods and stock in trade he had,and albeit we tried to stay him he would not be stayed: he laidin an outfit for the journey and fared forth with certainwayfarers. After an absence of a whole year he came back to me,even as my elder brother had come back. and when I said to him,"O my brother, did I not dissuade thee from travel?" he shedtears and cried, "O my brother, this be destiny's decree: here Iam a mere beggar, penniless and without a shirt to myback." So I led him to the bath, O Jinni, and clothing him in newclothes of my own wear, I went with him to my shop and served himwith meat and drink. Furthermore I said to him, "O my brother, Iam wont to cast up my shop accounts at the head of every year,and whatso I shall find of surplusage is between me andthee." So I proceeded, O Ifrit, to strike a balance and,finding two thousand diners of profit, I returned praises to theCreator (be He extolled and exalted!) and made over one half tomy brother, keeping the other to my self. Thereupon he busiedhimself with opening a shop and on this wise we abode many days.After a time my brothers began pressing me to travel with them.but I refused saying, "What gained ye by travel voyage that Ishould gain thereby?" As I would not give ear to them we wentback each to his own shop where we bought and sold as before.They kept urging me to travel for a whole twelvemonth, but Irefused to do so till full six years were past and gone when Iconsented with these words, "O my brothers, here am I, yourcompanion of travel: now let me see what monies you have by you."I found, however, that they had not a doit, having squanderedtheir substance in high diet and drinking and carnal delights.Yet I spoke not a word of reproach. so far from it I looked overmy shop accounts once more, and sold what goods and stock intrade were mine. and, finding myself the owner of six thousandducats, I gladly proceeded to divide that sum in halves, sayingto my brothers, "These three thousand gold pieces are for me andfor you to trade withal," adding, "Let us bury the other moietyunderground that it may be of service in case any harm befal us,in which case each shall take a thousand wherewith to openshops." Both replied, "Right is thy recking." and I gave to eachone his thousand gold pieces, keeping the same sum for myself, towit, a thousand diners. We then got ready suitable goods andhired a ship and, having embarked our merchandise, proceeded onour voyage, day following day, a full month, after which wearrived at a city, where we sold our venture. and for every pieceof gold we gained ten. And as we turned again to our voyage wefound on the shore of the sea a maiden clad in worn and raggedgear, and she kissed my hand and said, "O master, is therekindness in thee and charity? I can make thee a fitting returnfor them." I answered, "Even so. truly in me are benevolence andgood works, even though thou render me no return." Then she said,"Take me to wife, O my master, and carry me to thy city, for Ihave given myself to thee. so do me a kindness and I am of thosewho be meet for good works and charity: I will make thee afitting return for these and be thou not shamed by my condition."When I heard her words, my heart yearned towards her, in suchsort as willed it Allah (be He extolled and exalted!). and tookher and clothed her and made ready for her a fair resting placein the vessel, and honourably entreated her. So we voyaged on,and my heart became attached to her with exceeding attachment,and I was separated from her neither night nor day, and I paidmore regard to her than to my brothers. Then they were estrangedfrom me, and waxed jealous of my wealth and the quantity ofmerchandise I had, and their eyes were opened covetously upon allmy property. So they took counsel to murder me and seize mywealth, saying, "Let us slay our brother and all his monies willbe ours." and Satan made this deed seem fair in their sight. sowhen they found me in privacy (and I sleeping by my wife's side)they took us both up and cast us into the sea. My wife awokestartled from her sleep and, forthright becoming anIfritah, she bore me up and carried me to an island anddisappeared for a short time. but she returned in the morning andsaid, "Here am I, thy faithful slave, who hath made thee duerecompense. for I bore thee up in the waters and saved thee fromdeath by command of the Almighty. Know that I am a Jinniyah, andas I saw thee my heart loved thee by will of the Lord, for I am abeliever in Allah and in His Apostle (whom Heaven bless andpreserve!). Thereupon I came to thee conditioned as thou sawestme and thou didst marry me, and see now I have saved thee fromsinking. But I am angered against thy brothers and assuredly Imust slay them." When I heard her story I was surprised and,thanking her for all she had done, I said, "But as to slaying mybrothers this must not be." Then I told her the tale of what hadcome to pass with them from the beginning of our lives to theend, and on hearing it quoth she, "This night will I fly as abird over them and will sink their ship and slay them." Quoth I,"Allah upon thee, do not thus, for the proverb saith, O thou whodoest good to him that cloth evil, leave the evil doer to hisevil deeds. Moreover they are still my brothers." But sherejoined, "By Allah, there is no help for it but I slay them." Ihumbled myself before her for their pardon, whereupon she bore meup and flew away with me till at last she set me down on theterrace roof of my own house. I opened the doors and took up whatI had hidden in the ground. and after I had saluted the folk Iopened my shop and bought me merchandise. Now when night came onI went home, and there I saw these two hounds tied up. and, whenthey sighted me, they arose and whined and fawned upon me. butere I knew what happened my wife said, "These two dogs be thybrothers!" I answered, "And who hath done this thing by them?"and she rejoined, "I sent a message to my sister and sheentreated them on this wise, nor shall these two be released fromtheir present shape till ten years shall have passed." And now Ihave arrived at this place on my way to my wife's sister that shemay deliver them from this condition, after their having enduredit for half a score of years. As I was wending onwards I saw thisyoung man, who acquainted me with what had befallen him, and Idetermined not to fare hence until I should see what might occurbetween thee and him. Such is my tale! Then said the Jinni,"Surely this is a strange story and therefor I give thee thethird portion of his blood and his crime." Thereupon quoth thethird Shaykh, the master of the mare mule, to the Jinni, "I cantell thee a tale more wondrous than these two, so thou grant methe remainder of his blood and of his offense," and the Jinnianswered, "So be it!" Then the old man began