There was once a king who had only one son, and this young man tormentedhis father from morning till night to allow him to travel in farcountries. For a long time the king refused to give him leave. but atlast, wearied out, he granted permission, and ordered his treasurer toproduce a large sum of money for the prince's expenses. The youth wasoverjoyed at the thought that he was really going to see the world, andafter tenderly embracing his father he set forth.He rode on for some weeks without meeting with any adventures. but onenight when he was resting at an inn, he came across another traveller,with whom he fell into conversation, in the course of which the strangerinquired if he never played cards. The young man replied that he wasvery fond of doing so. Cards were brought, and in a very short time theprince had lost every penny he possessed to his new acquaintance. Whenthere was absolutely nothing left at the bottom of the bag, the strangerproposed that they should have just one more game, and that if theprince won he should have the money restored to him, but in case helost, should remain in the inn for three years, and besides that shouldbe his servant for another three. The prince agreed to those terms,played, and lost. so the stranger took rooms for him, and furnished himwith bread and water every day for three years.The prince lamented his lot, but it was no use. and at the end of threeyears he was released and had to go to the house of the stranger, whowas really the king of a neighbouring country, and be his servant.Before he had gone very far he met a woman carrying a child, which wascrying from hunger. The prince took it from her, and fed it with hislast crust of bread and last drop of water, and then gave it back to itsmother. The woman thanked him gratefully, and said:'Listen, my lord. You must walk straight on till you notice a verystrong scent, which comes from a garden by the side of the road. Go inand hide yourself close to a tank, where three doves will come to bathe.As the last one flies past you, catch hold of its robe of feathers, andrefuse to give it back till the dove has promised you three things.'The young man did as he was told, and everything happened as the womanhad said. He took the robe of feathers from the dove, who gave him inexchange for it a ring, a collar, and one of its own plumes, saying:'When you are in any trouble, cry "Come to my aid, O dove!" I am thedaughter of the king you are going to serve, who hates your father andmade you gamble in order to cause your ruin.'Thus the prince went on his way, and in course of time he arrived at theking's palace. As soon as his master knew he was there, the young manwas sent for into his presence, and three bags were handed to him withthese words:'Take this wheat, this millet, and this barley, and sow them at once, sothat I may have loaves of them all to morrow.'The prince stood speechless at this command, but the king did notcondescend to give any further explanation, and when he was dismissedthe young man flew to the room which had been set aside for him, andpulling out his feather, he cried: 'Dove, dove! be quick and come.''What is it?' said the dove, flying in through the open window, andthe prince told her of the task before him, and of his despair at beingunable to accomplish it. 'Fear nothing. it will be all right,' repliedthe dove, as she flew away again.The next morning when the prince awoke he saw the three loaves standingbeside his bed. He jumped up and dressed, and he was scarcely readywhen a page arrived with the message that he was to go at once into theking's chamber. Taking the loaves in his arm he followed the boy, and,bowing low, laid them down before the king. The monarch looked at theloaves for a moment without speaking, then he said:'Good. The man who can do this can also find the ring which my eldestdaughter dropped into the sea.'The prince hastened back to his room and summoned the dove, and when sheheard this new command she said: 'Now listen. To morrow take a knifeand a basin and go down to the shore and get into a boat you will findthere.'The young man did not know what he was to do when he was in the boat orwhere he was to go, but as the dove had come to his rescue before, hewas ready to obey her blindly.When he reached the boat he found the dove perched on one of the masts,and at a signal from her he put to sea. the wind was behind them andthey soon lost sight of land. The dove then spoke for the first time andsaid, 'Take that knife and cut off my head, but be careful that not asingle drop of blood falls to the ground. Afterwards you must throw itinto the sea.'Wondering at this strange order, the prince picked up his knife andsevered the dove's head from her body at one stroke. A little whileafter a dove rose from the water with a ring in its beak, and layingit in the prince's hand, dabbled itself with the blood that was in thebasin, when its head became that of a beautiful girl. Another moment andit had vanished completely, and the prince took the ring and made hisway back to the palace.The king stared with surprise at the sight of the ring, but he thoughtof another way of getting rid of the young man which was surer even thanthe other two.'This evening you will mount my colt and ride him to the field, andbreak him in properly.'The prince received this command as silently as he had received therest, but no sooner was he in his room than he called for the dove, whosaid: 'Attend to me. My father longs to see you dead, and thinks he willkill you by this means. He himself is the colt, my mother is the saddle,my two sisters are the stirrups, and I am the bridle. Do not forget totake a good club, to help you in dealing with such a crew.'So the prince mounted the colt, and gave him such a beating that when hecame to the palace to announce that the animal was now so meek that itcould be ridden by the smallest child, he found the king so bruised thathe had to be wrapped in cloths dipped in vinegar, the mother was toostiff to move, and several of the daughters' ribs were broken. Theyoungest, however, was quite unharmed. That night she came to the princeand whispered to him:'Now that they are all in too much pain to move, we had better seize ourchance and run away. Go to the stable and saddle the leanest horseyou can find there.' But the prince was foolish enough to choose thefattest: and when they had started and the princess saw what he haddone, she was very sorry, for though this horse ran like the wind, theother flashed like thought. However, it was dangerous to go back, andthey rode on as fast as the horse would go.In the night the king sent for his youngest daughter, and as she didnot come he sent again. but she did not come any the more for that. Thequeen, who was a witch, discovered that her daughter had gone off withthe prince, and told her husband he must leave his bed and go afterthem. The king got slowly up, groaning with pain, and dragged himself tothe stables, where he saw the lean horse still in his stall.Leaping on his back he shook the reins, and his daughter, who knew whatto expect and had her eyes open, saw the horse start forward, and in thetwinkling of an eye changed her own steed into a cell, the prince into ahermit, and herself into a nun.When the king reached the chapel, he pulled up his horse and asked ifa girl and a young man had passed that way. The hermit raised his eyes,which were bent on the ground, and said that he had not seen a livingcreature. The king, much disgusted at this news, and not knowing whatto do, returned home and told his wife that, though he had ridden formiles, he had come across nothing but a hermit and a nun in a cell.'Why those were the runaways, of course,' she cried, flying into apassion, 'and if you had only brought a scrap of the nun's dress, or abit of stone from the wall, I should have had them in my power.'At these words the king hastened back to the stable, and brought out thelean horse who travelled quicker than thought. But his daughter sawhim coming, and changed her horse into a plot of ground, herself intoa rose tree covered with roses, and the prince into a gardener. As theking rode up, the gardener looked up from the tree which he was trimmingand asked if anything was the matter. 'Have you seen a young man and agirl go by?' said the king, and the gardener shook his head and repliedthat no one had passed that way since he had been working there. So theking turned his steps homewards and told his wife.'Idiot!' cried she, 'if you had only brought me one of the roses, or ahandful of earth, I should have had them in my power. But there is notime to waste. I shall have to go with you myself.'The girl saw them from afar, and a great fear fell on her, for she knewher mother's skill in magic of all kinds. However, she determined tofight to the end, and changed the horse into a deep pool, herself intoan eel, and the prince into a turtle. But it was no use. Her motherrecognised them all, and, pulling up, asked her daughter if she did notrepent and would not like to come home again. The eel wagged 'No' withher tail, and the queen told her husband to put a drop of water fromthe pool into a bottle, because it was only by that means that she couldseize hold of her daughter. The king did as he was bid, and was just inthe act of drawing the bottle out of the water after he had filled it,when the turtle knocked against and spilt it all. The king then filledit a second time, but again the turtle was too quick for him.The queen saw that she was beaten, and called down a curse on herdaughter that the prince should forget all about her. After havingrelieved her feelings in this manner, she and the king went back to thepalace.The others resumed their proper shapes and continued their journey, butthe princess was so silent that at last the prince asked her what wasthe matter. 'It is because I know you will soon forget all about me,'said she, and though he laughed at her and told her it was impossible,she did not cease to believe it.They rode on and on and on, till they reached the end of the world,where the prince lived, and leaving the girl in an inn he went himselfto the palace to ask leave of his father to present her to him as hisbride. but in his joy at seeing his family once more he forgot all abouther, and even listened when the king spoke of arranging a marriage forhim.When the poor girl heard this she wept bitterly, and cried out, 'Come tome, my sisters, for I need you badly!'In a moment they stood beside her, and the elder one said, 'Do not besad, all will go well,' and they told the innkeeper that if any of theking's servants wanted any birds for their master they were to be sentup to them, as they had three doves for sale.And so it fell out, and as the doves were very beautiful the servantbought them for the king, who admired them so much that he called hisson to look at them. The prince was much pleased with the doves and wascoaxing them to come to him, when one fluttered on to the top of thewindow and said, 'If you could only hear us speak, you would admire usstill more.'And another perched on a table and added, 'Talk away, it might help himto remember!'And the third flew on his shoulder and whispered to him, 'Put on thisring, prince, and see if it fits you.'And it did. Then they hung a collar round his neck, and held a featheron which was written the name of the dove. And at last his memory cameback to him, and he declared he would marry the princess and nobodyelse. So the next day the wedding took place, and they lived happy tillthey died.(From the Portuguese.)