a giant oak tree.As he ran, the Marionette felt more and more certain that he would haveto give himself up into the hands of his pursuers. Suddenly he saw alittle cottage gleaming white as the snow among the trees of the forest."If I have enough breath left with which to reach that little house, Imay be saved," he said to himself.Not waiting another moment, he darted swiftly through the woods, theAssassins still after him.After a hard race of almost an hour, tired and out of breath, Pinocchiofinally reached the door of the cottage and knocked. No one answered.He knocked again, harder than before, for behind him he heard the stepsand the labored breathing of his persecutors. The same silence followed.As knocking was of no use, Pinocchio, in despair, began to kick and bangagainst the door, as if he wanted to break it. At the noise, a windowopened and a lovely maiden looked out. She had azure hair and a facewhite as wax. Her eyes were closed and her hands crossed on her breast.With a voice so weak that it hardly could be heard, she whispered:"No one lives in this house. Everyone is dead.""Won't you, at least, open the door for me?" cried Pinocchio in abeseeching voice."I also am dead.""Dead? What are you doing at the window, then?""I am waiting for the coffin to take me away."After these words, the little girl disappeared and the window closedwithout a sound."Oh, Lovely Maiden with Azure Hair," cried Pinocchio, "open, I beg ofyou. Take pity on a poor boy who is being chased by two Assass "He did not finish, for two powerful hands grasped him by the neck andthe same two horrible voices growled threateningly: "Now we have you!"The Marionette, seeing death dancing before him, trembled so hard thatthe joints of his legs rattled and the coins tinkled under his tongue."Well," the Assassins asked, "will you open your mouth now or not? Ah!You do not answer? Very well, this time you shall open it."Taking out two long, sharp knives, they struck two heavy blows on theMarionette's back.Happily for him, Pinocchio was made of very hard wood and the knivesbroke into a thousand pieces. The Assassins looked at each other indismay, holding the handles of the knives in their hands."I understand," said one of them to the other, "there is nothing left todo now but to hang him.""To hang him," repeated the other.They tied Pinocchio's hands behind his shoulders and slipped the noosearound his neck. Throwing the rope over the high limb of a giant oaktree, they pulled till the poor Marionette hung far up in space.Satisfied with their work, they sat on the grass waiting for Pinocchioto give his last gasp. But after three hours the Marionette's eyes werestill open, his mouth still shut and his legs kicked harder than ever.Tired of waiting, the Assassins called to him mockingly: "Good by tilltomorrow. When we return in the morning, we hope you'll be polite enoughto let us find you dead and gone and with your mouth wide open." Withthese words they went.A few minutes went by and then a wild wind started to blow. As itshrieked and moaned, the poor little sufferer was blown to and frolike the hammer of a bell. The rocking made him seasick and the noose,becoming tighter and tighter, choked him. Little by little a filmcovered his eyes.Death was creeping nearer and nearer, and the Marionette still hopedfor some good soul to come to his rescue, but no one appeared. As he wasabout to die, he thought of his poor old father, and hardly conscious ofwhat he was saying, murmured to himself:"Oh, Father, dear Father! If you were only here!"These were his last words. He closed his eyes, opened his mouth,stretched out his legs, and hung there, as if he were dead.