It was near the end of January, and a terrible fall of snow waspelting down, and whirling through the streets and lanes. thewindows were plastered with snow on the outside, snow fell in massesfrom the roofs. Every one seemed in a great hurry. they ran, theyflew, fell into each other's arms, holding fast for a moment as longas they could stand safely. Coaches and horses looked as if they hadbeen frosted with sugar. The footmen stood with their backs againstthe carriages, so as to turn their faces from the wind. The footpassengers kept within the shelter of the carriages, which couldonly move slowly on in the deep snow. At last the storm abated, anda narrow path was swept clean in front of the houses. when two personsmet in this path they stood still, for neither liked to take the firststep on one side into the deep snow to let the other pass him. Therethey stood silent and motionless, till at last, as if by tacitconsent, they each sacrificed a leg and buried it in the deep snow.Towards evening, the weather became calm. The sky, cleared from thesnow, looked more lofty and transparent, while the stars shone withnew brightness and purity. The frozen snow crackled under foot, andwas quite firm enough to bear the sparrows, who hopped upon it inthe morning dawn. They searched for food in the path which had beenswept, but there was very little for them, and they were terriblycold. "Tweet, tweet," said one to another. "they call this a newyear, but I think it is worse than the last. We might just as wellhave kept the old year. I'm quite unhappy, and I have a right to beso.""Yes, you have. and yet the people ran about and fired off guns,to usher in the new year," said a little shivering sparrow. "Theythrew things against the doors, and were quite beside themselveswith joy, because the old year had disappeared. I was glad too, forI expected we should have some warm days, but my hopes have come tonothing. It freezes harder than ever. I think mankind have made amistake in reckoning time.""That they have," said a third, an old sparrow with a whitepoll. "they have something they call a calendar. it's an inventionof their own, and everything must be arranged according to it, butit won't do. When spring comes, then the year begins. It is thevoice of nature, and I reckon by that.""But when will spring come?" asked the others."It will come when the stork returns, but he is very uncertain,and here in the town no one knows anything about it. In the countrythey have more knowledge. shall we fly away there and wait? we shallbe nearer to spring then, certainly.""That may be all very well," said another sparrow, who had beenhopping about for a long time, chirping, but not saying anything ofconsequence, "but I have found a few comforts here in town which,I'm afraid, I should miss out in the country. Here in thisneighborhood, there lives a family of people who have been so sensibleas to place three or four flower pots against the wall in thecourt yard, so that the openings are all turned inward, and the bottomof each points outward. In the latter a hole has been cut large enoughfor me to fly in and out. I and my husband have built a nest in one ofthese pots, and all our young ones, who have now flown away, werebrought up there. The people who live there of course made the wholearrangement that they might have the pleasure of seeing us, or theywould not have done it. It pleased them also to strew bread crumbs forus, and so we have food, and may consider ourselves provided for. So Ithink my husband and I will stay where we are. although we are notvery happy, but we shall stay.""And we will fly into the country," said the others, "to see ifspring is coming." And away they flew.In the country it was really winter, a few degrees colder thanin the town. The sharp winds blew over the snow covered fields. Thefarmer, wrapped in warm clothing, sat in his sleigh, and beat his armsacross his chest to keep off the cold. The whip lay on his lap. Thehorses ran till they smoked. The snow crackled, the sparrows hoppedabout in the wheel ruts, and shivered, crying, "Tweet, tweet. whenwill spring come? It is very long in coming.""Very long indeed," sounded over the field, from the nearestsnow covered hill. It might have been the echo which people heard,or perhaps the words of that wonderful old man, who sat high on a heapof snow, regardless of wind or weather. He was all in white. he had ona peasant's coarse white coat of frieze. He had long white hair, apale face, and large clear blue eyes. "Who is that old man?" asked thesparrows."I know who he is," said an old raven, who sat on the fence, andwas condescending enough to acknowledge that we are all equal in thesight of Heaven, even as little birds, and therefore he talked withthe sparrows, and gave them the information they wanted. "I know whothe old man is," he said. "It is Winter, the old man of last year.he is not dead yet, as the calendar says, but acts as guardian tolittle Prince Spring who is coming. Winter rules here still. Ugh!the cold makes you shiver, little ones, does it not?""There! Did I not tell you so?" said the smallest of the sparrows."The calendar is only an invention of man, and is not arrangedaccording to nature. They should leave these things to us. we arecreated so much more clever than they are."One week passed, and then another. The forest looked dark, thehard frozen lake lay like a sheet of lead. The mountains haddisappeared, for over the land hung damp, icy mists. Large black crowsflew about in silence. it was as if nature slept. At length asunbeam glided over the lake, and it shone like burnished silver.But the snow on the fields and the hills did not glitter as before.The white form of Winter sat there still, with his un wandering gazefixed on the south. He did not perceive that the snowy carpet seemedto sink as it were into the earth. that here and there a littlegreen patch of grass appeared, and that these patches were coveredwith sparrows."Tee wit, tee wit. is spring coming at last?"Spring! How the cry resounded over field and meadow, and throughthe dark brown woods, where the fresh green moss still gleamed onthe trunks of the trees, and from the south came the two firststorks flying through the air, and on the back of each sat a lovelylittle child, a boy and a girl. They greeted the earth with a kiss,and wherever they placed their feet white flowers sprung up frombeneath the snow. Hand in hand they approached the old ice man,Winter, embraced him and clung to his breast. and as they did so, in amoment all three were enveloped in a thick, damp mist, dark and heavy,that closed over them like a veil. The wind arose with mighty rustlingtone, and cleared away the mist. Then the sun shone out warmly. Winterhad vanished away, and the beautiful children of Spring sat on thethrone of the year."This is really a new year," cried all the sparrows, "now we shallget our rights, and have some return for what we suffered in winter."Wherever the two children wandered, green buds burst forth on bushand tree, the grass grew higher, and the corn fields became lovelyin delicate green.The little maiden strewed flowers in her path. She held herapron before her: it was full of flowers. it was as if they sprunginto life there, for the more she scattered around her, the moreflowers did her apron contain. Eagerly she showered snowy blossomsover apple and peach trees, so that they stood in full beauty beforeeven their green leaves had burst from the bud. Then the boy and thegirl clapped their hands, and troops of birds came flying by, no oneknew from whence, and they all twittered and chirped, singing"Spring has come!" How beautiful everything was! Many an old dame cameforth from her door into the sunshine, and shuffled about with greatdelight, glancing at the golden flowers which glittered everywherein the fields, as they used to do in her young days. The world grewyoung again to her, as she said, "It is a blessed time out hereto day." The forest already wore its dress of dark green buds. Thethyme blossomed in fresh fragrance. Primroses and anemones sprungforth, and violets bloomed in the shade, while every blade of grasswas full of strength and sap. Who could resist sitting down on sucha beautiful carpet? and then the young children of Spring seatedthemselves, holding each other's hands, and sang, and laughed, andgrew. A gentle rain fell upon them from the sky, but they did notnotice it, for the rain drops were their own tears of joy. They kissedeach other, and were betrothed. and in the same moment the buds of thetrees unfolded, and when the sun rose, the forest was green. Hand inhand the two wandered beneath the fresh pendant canopy of foliage,while the sun's rays gleamed through the opening of the shade, inchanging and varied colors. The delicate young leaves filled the airwith refreshing odor. Merrily rippled the clear brooks and rivuletsbetween the green, velvety rushes, and over the many colored pebblesbeneath. All nature spoke of abundance and plenty. The cuckoo sang,and the lark carolled, for it was now beautiful spring. The carefulwillows had, however, covered their blossoms with woolly gloves. andthis carefulness is rather tedious. Days and weeks went by, and theheat increased. Warm air waved the corn as it grew golden in thesun. The white northern lily spread its large green leaves over theglossy mirror of the woodland lake, and the fishes sought theshadows beneath them. In a sheltered part of the wood, the sun shoneupon the walls of a farm house, brightening the blooming roses, andripening the black juicy berries, which hung on the loadedcherry trees, with his hot beams. Here sat the lovely wife ofSummer, the same whom we have seen as a child and a bride. her eyeswere fixed on dark gathering clouds, which in wavy outlines of blackand indigo were piling themselves up like mountains, higher andhigher. They came from every side, always increasing like a rising,rolling sea. Then they swooped towards the forest, where every soundhad been silenced as if by magic, every breath hushed, every birdmute. All nature stood still in grave suspense. But in the lanes andthe highways, passengers on foot or in carriages were hurrying to finda place of shelter. Then came a flash of light, as if the sun hadrushed forth from the sky, flaming, burning, all devouring, anddarkness returned amid a rolling crash of thunder. The rain poureddown in streams, now there was darkness, then blinding light, nowthrilling silence, then deafening din. The young brown reeds on themoor waved to and fro in feathery billows. the forest boughs werehidden in a watery mist, and still light and darkness followed eachother, still came the silence after the roar, while the corn and theblades of grass lay beaten down and swamped, so that it seemedimpossible they could ever raise themselves again. But after a whilethe rain began to fall gently, the sun's rays pierced the clouds,and the water drops glittered like pearls on leaf and stem. Thebirds sang, the fishes leaped up to the surface of the water, thegnats danced in the sunshine, and yonder, on a rock by the heavingsalt sea, sat Summer himself, a strong man with sturdy limbs and long,dripping hair. Strengthened by the cool bath, he sat in the warmsunshine, while all around him renewed nature bloomed strong,luxuriant, and beautiful: it was summer, warm, lovely summer. Sweetand pleasant was the fragrance wafted from the clover field, where thebees swarmed round the ruined tower, the bramble twined itself overthe old altar, which, washed by the rain, glittered in the sunshine.and thither flew the queen bee with her swarm, and prepared wax andhoney. But Summer and his bosom wife saw it with different eyes, tothem the altar table was covered with the offerings of nature. Theevening sky shone like gold, no church dome could ever gleam sobrightly, and between the golden evening and the blushing morningthere was moonlight. It was indeed summer. And days and weekspassed, the bright scythes of the reapers glittered in thecorn fields, the branches of the apple trees bent low, heavy withthe red and golden fruit. The hop, hanging in clusters, filled the airwith sweet fragrance, and beneath the hazel bushes, where the nutshung in great bunches, rested a man and a woman Summer and hisgrave consort."See," she exclaimed, "what wealth, what blessings surround us.Everything is home like and good, and yet, I know not why, I longfor rest and peace. I can scarcely express what I feel. They arealready ploughing the fields again. more and more the people wishfor gain. See, the storks are flocking together, and following theplough at a short distance. They are the birds from Egypt, who carriedus through the air. Do you remember how we came as children to thisland of the north. we brought with us flowers and bright sunshine, andgreen to the forests, but the wind has been rough with them, andthey are now become dark and brown, like the trees of the south, butthey do not, like them, bear golden fruit.""Do you wish to see golden fruit?" said the man, "then rejoice,"and he lifted his arm. The leaves of the forest put on colors of redand gold, and bright tints covered the woodlands. The rose bushesgleamed with scarlet hips, and the branches of the elder trees hungdown with the weight of the full, dark berries. The wild chestnutsfell ripe from their dark, green shells, and in the forests theviolets bloomed for the second time. But the queen of the yearbecame more and more silent and pale."It blows cold," she said, "and night brings the damp mist. I longfor the land of my childhood." Then she saw the storks fly awayevery one, and she stretched out her hands towards them. She looked atthe empty nests. in one of them grew a long stalked corn flower, inanother the yellow mustard seed, as if the nest had been placedthere only for its comfort and protection, and the sparrows wereflying round them all."Tweet, where has the master of the nest gone?" cried one, "Isuppose he could not bear it when the wind blew, and therefore hehas left this country. I wish him a pleasant journey."The forest leaves became more and more yellow, leaf after leaffell, and the stormy winds of Autumn howled. The year was now faradvanced, and upon the fallen, yellow leaves, lay the queen of theyear, looking up with mild eyes at a gleaming star, and her husbandstood by her. A gust of wind swept through the foliage, and the leavesfell in a shower. The summer queen was gone, but a butterfly, the lastof the year, flew through the cold air. Damp fogs came, icy windsblew, and the long, dark nights of winter approached. The ruler of theyear appeared with hair white as snow, but he knew it not. hethought snow flakes falling from the sky covered his head, as theydecked the green fields with a thin, white covering of snow. Andthen the church bells rang out for Christmas time."The bells are ringing for the new born year," said the ruler,"soon will a new ruler and his bride be born, and I shall go torest with my wife in yonder light giving star."In the fresh, green fir wood, where the snow lay all around, stoodthe angel of Christmas, and consecrated the young trees that were toadorn his feast."May there be joy in the rooms, and under the green boughs,"said the old ruler of the year. In a few weeks he had become a veryold man, with hair as white as snow. "My resting time draws near.the young pair of the year will soon claim my crown and sceptre.""But the night is still thine," said the angel of Christmas,"for power, but not for rest. Let the snow lie warmly upon thetender seed. Learn to endure the thought that another is worshippedwhilst thou art still lord. Learn to endure being forgotten whileyet thou livest. The hour of thy freedom will come when Springappears.""And when will Spring come?" asked Winter."It will come when the stork returns."And with white locks and snowy beard, cold, bent, and hoary, butstrong as the wintry storm, and firm as the ice, old Winter sat on thesnowdrift covered hill, looking towards the south, where Winter hadsat before, and gazed. The ice glittered, the snow crackled, theskaters skimmed over the polished surface of the lakes. ravens andcrows formed a pleasing contrast to the white ground, and not a breathof wind stirred, and in the still air old Winter clenched his fists,and the ice lay fathoms deep between the lands. Then came the sparrowsagain out of the town, and asked, "Who is that old man?" The raven satthere still, or it might be his son, which is the same thing, and hesaid to them, "It is Winter, the old man of the former year. he is not dead,as the calendar says, but he is guardian to the spring, which iscoming.""When will Spring come?" asked the sparrows, "for we shall havebetter times then, and a better rule. The old times are worthnothing."And in quiet thought old Winter looked at the leafless forest,where the graceful form and bends of each tree and branch could beseen. and while Winter slept, icy mists came from the clouds, andthe ruler dreamt of his youthful days and of his manhood, and in themorning dawn the whole forest glittered with hoar frost, which the sunshook from the branches, and this was the summer dream of Winter."When will Spring come?" asked the sparrows. "Spring!" Again theecho sounded from the hills on which the snow lay. The sunshine becamewarmer, the snow melted, and the birds twittered, "Spring iscoming!" And high in the air flew the first stork, and the secondfollowed. a lovely child sat on the back of each, and they sank downon the open field, kissed the earth, and kissed the quiet old man.and, as the mist from the mountain top, he vanished away anddisappeared. And the story of the year was finished."This is all very fine, no doubt," said the sparrows, "and it isvery beautiful. but it is not according to the calendar, therefore, itmust be all wrong."