One winter's evening the sexton's wife was sitting by the fireside withher big black cat, Old Tom, on the other side, both half asleep andwaiting for the master to come home. They waited and they waited, butstill he didn't come, till at last he came rushing in, calling out, "Who'sTommy Tildrum?" in such a wild way that both his wife and his cat staredat him to know what was the matter."Why, what's the matter?" said his wife. "And why do you want to knowwho Tommy Tildrum is?""Oh, I've had such an adventure. I was digging away at old Mr.Fordyce's grave when I suppose I must have dropped asleep, and only wokeup by hearing a cat's meow.""Meow!" said Old Tom in answer."Yes, just like that! So I looked over the edge of the grave, and whatdo you think I saw?""Now, how can I tell?" said the sexton's wife."Why, nine black cats all like our friend Tom here, all with a whitespot on their chestesses. And what do you think they were carrying? Why, asmall coffin covered with a black velvet pall, and on the pall was a smallcoronet all of gold, and at every third step they took they cried alltogether, 'Meow  '""Meow!" said Old Tom again."Yes, just like that!" said the sexton. "And as they came nearer andnearer to me I could see them more distinctly, because their eyes shoneout with a sort of green light. Well, they all came towards me, eight ofthem carrying the coffin and the biggest cat of all walking in front forall the world like   but look at our Tom, how he's looking at me. You'dthink he knew all I was saying.""Go on, go on," said his wife. "Never mind Old Tom.""Well, as I was a saying, they came towards me slowly and solemnly, andat every third step crying all together, 'Meow  '""Meow!" said Old Tom again."Yes, just like that, till they came and stood right opposite Mr.Fordyce's grave, where I was, when they all stood still and lookedstraight at me. I did feel queer, that I did! But look at Old Tom. He'slooking at me just like they did.""Go on, go on," said his wife. "Never mind Old Tom.""Where was I? Oh, they all stood still looking at me, when the one thatwasn't carrying the coffin came forward and, staring straight at me,said to me   yes, I tell 'ee, said to me   with a squeaky voice,'Tell Tom Tildrum that Tim Toldrum's dead,' and that's why I asked you ifyou knew who Tom Tildrum was, for how can I tell Tom Tildrum Tim Toldrum'sdead if I don't know who Tom Tildrum is?""Look at Old Tom! Look at Old Tom!" screamed his wife.And well he might look, for Tom was swelling, and Tom was staring, andat last Tom shrieked out, "What   old Tim dead! Then I'm the King o' theCats!" and rushed up the chimney and was never more seen.