There was an emperor and empress who had three daughters. The emperorfell ill, and sent his eldest daughter for water.She went to fetch it, when a snake said, "Come! Will you marry me?"The princess replied, "No, I won't.""Then," said he, "I won't give you any water."Then the second daughter said, "I'll go. He'll give me some."She went. The snake said to her, "Come! Will you marry me?""No," she said, "I won't." He gave her no water.She returned and said, "He gave me no water. He said, 'If you willmarry me I will give it.'"The youngest said, "I will go. He will give me some."She went, and the snake said to her, "Come! Will you marry me?""I will," she said. Then he drew her water from the very bottom, coldand fresh. She brought it home, gave it her father to drink, and herfather recovered.Then on Sunday a carriage came, and those with it said:Open the door,Princess!Why did the dear one love?Why draw water from the ford,Princess?She was terrified, wept, and went and opened the door. Then they saidagain:Open the door,Princess!Why did the dear one love?Why draw water from the ford,Princess?Then they came into the house and placed the snake in a plate on thetable. There he lay, just as if he were of gold! They went out of thehouse, and said:Sit in the carriage,Princess!Why did the dear one love?Why draw water from the ford,Princess?They drove off with her to the snake's abode. There they lived, and hada daughter born to them. They also took a godmother to live with them, butshe was a wicked woman. The child soon died, and the mother died soonafter it. The godmother went in the night to the place where she wasburied, and cut off her hands. Then she came home, and heated water gruel,scalded the hands, and took off the gold rings.Then the princess   such was the ordinance of God   came to her forthe hands, and said:The fowls are asleep, the geese are asleep,Only my godmother does not sleep.She scalds white hands in water gruel,She takes off golden rings.The godmother concealed herself under the stove. She said again:The fowls are asleep, the geese are asleep,Only my godmother does not sleep.She scalds white hands in water gruel,She takes off golden rings.The next day they came and found the godmother dead under the stove.They didn't give her proper burial, but threw her into a hole.