Once upon a time there was a hunter who had a wife and many children,but only a meager existence. He had many difficulties with his work. Hewould have gladly done all the men's work both at home and away from home,but he was not able to, so although he had only a small income, he stillhad to hire a helper.He had about the same luck at hunting that others have. Today he gotsomething, tomorrow nothing, and many an evening he came home with anempty bag after spending the whole day traipsing himself tired.Not far from his house there was a high mountain. This was his favoriteplace to hunt, and he went there often, for this was the easiest place tospot game. One day while hunting on this mountain he saw a human lying inthe footpath. His dog ran ahead then raced around the person who was lyingthere, all the time barking loudly. The dog was so wild that it seemed hewanted to tear the person to pieces. With difficulty the hunter held himback. It was strange that the dog was attacking this person with suchfury, because normally he would do no harm to anyone.With the dog barking at him, the person lying there raised himself alittle and said to the hunter, "Be so good as to sell this dog to me.""No," said the hunter, "I need this dog myself and cannot give him toyou. But I have another one at home that you can have, if what you want isa dog.""That's good," said the man lying there. "Let my buy the other one. Butyou must bring it here at exactly this time tomorrow, and we will closethe deal. Did you hear? Exactly at this time."The hunter gave his word, went away with his dog, and hunted awhilelonger on the mountain. Finding no game, he gave up his traipsing aboutand made his way toward home. He arrived home, and after greeting his wifehe told her that he had sold the dog that he never took hunting.The wife was glad to hear this and said, "You should have sold theother one as well. We would be better off giving the bread to our childrenthat we use feeding the dogs."The next day, as the appointed time approached, the hunter said, "Ihave to leave now with the dog, for the man might not wait, and then thedeal would be broken."He lured the promised dog to come to him and was about to leave whenhis thirteen year old daughter came up to him and cried out, "Oh, father,let me come along too!""Why do want to go with me today?" asked the hunter.The girl did not have an answer, but still would not cease asking to beallowed to go with her father. In the meantime the hunter's wife came byand took the girl's side, so in the end the father gave in and allowed herto go.They went to the mountain, coming finally to the path where the personhad been lying the day before. But today a wild serpent was lying there.The frightened hunter immediately realized that there had been somethinguncanny about the person whom the dog had barked at the day before. Takinghis daughter by the hand, he said, "Let's go. We have to turn back.Yesterday I knew there was something not right about that man, and nowtoday there is a serpent lying there in his place."The girl too was afraid, took his hand, and wanted to go. Then thedragon moved, shot toward the girl, wrapped his tail around her, anddisappeared into the mountain with her. The hunter, paralyzed with fear,stared after the monster.Now he was sorry that he had not brought his rifle. If he had beenarmed he at least could have peppered the dragon's skin a bit. However,staring after them did no good, and finally he had to decide to go homeand report the sad news. Upon his arrival, his wife saw his distorted faceand said immediately, "Where did you leave the girl? Why isn't she withyou?"Tears came to the hunter's eyes and, crying, he told her what hadhappened. After hearing this the hunter's wife was horrified and ran aboutcrying, "We did not bless the child enough, otherwise this evil would nothave happened to her."The next day the hunter returned to the mountain and combed back andforth and up and down hoping to find some trace of his child. But he didnot find as much as a scrap of her clothing, and that evening he had toreturn home empty handed. Undaunted, he returned often, looking in everycorner and hole. His thoughts were always with his daughter, even whilehunting game. But his searching was all in vain, and seven years passedwithout his discovering even the slightest trace of the girl.After the seven years had passed it happened one day that the hunterand his helper went to the mountain to hunt. They saw a beautiful gameanimal and began to track it, thinking it would soon be theirs. However,the animal stayed just far enough ahead of them so they could not get ashot at it, although they never lost it completely from their eyes. Theywere determined to get the animal, whatever it might do. Thus they pursuedit long and hard, but all for naught, and did not notice that it wasgetting dark. They did not stop until night had fallen, and finally thehunter said to his helper, "It is late. Night has come, and we are notgoing to make it back home.""I don't care," said the helper. "It isn't cold, and we can sleep hereon the ground just as well as at home in bed.""No, said the hunter, "I am not going to lie on the ground here. It isexactly seven years since the serpent carried my daughter away, and if wewere to lie down on the ground here it could also happen to us that aserpent or some other beast might attack us and tear us to pieces.""Wait a bit," answered the helper. "I'll climb a tree and look aroundto see if there is a house nearby."The hunter laughed at him, saying, "Yes indeed, a house nearby! I knowthis entire mountain from top to bottom and know for certain that there isno house nearby."But the helper would not be dissuaded, and he climbed the tree andlooked around. "Look!" he suddenly called out. "I can see a light just alittle above us. There is certainly a house up there where we can spendthe night."The hunter did not know what to think of this, because he knew fullwell that no one lived around here far and wide. The helper climbedquickly down the tree and said, "Let's go up to the light and see if thereare people there who will give us shelter."The hunter had no desire to go along, but the helper would not give in,and ridiculed him, so he finally agreed to go, and the two of them climbedup the mountain. They had not gone far when a light glistened brightlythrough the tree branches, and the hunter saw that the helper had beenright. But he was all the more fearful, for he knew that there never hadbeen a house around here. His fear became even greater when, afteradvancing a few paces, there appeared before them a magnificent castle,from which the light was beaming.The helper stopped and said, "Now you can see which of us was right. Iknew right away that if there was a light on the mountain there must be ahouse there as well. Let's go in and ask the people for shelter."The hunter cautioned him, saying, "I have been at this spot many times,but never in my lifetime has there been a castle standing here. Believeyou me, there is something not right about this. We would be better off toturn back and spend the night in a tree."But the helper would not be dissuaded, and he said that he would goinside, come what may."Then I'll have to go too," thought the hunter to himself, and climbedup to the door with his helper. They went inside, with the helper bravelyleading the way and the hunter timidly following.A most beautiful maiden came up to them and asked them what theywanted.The servant spoke first, saying, "Nightfall caught us in the woods andwe were not able to make our way home. May we ask you for shelter for thenight?""Oh, yes," replied the maiden. "You can spend the night here, but Ihave to tell you one thing: You must show neither fear nor disgust.""If there is nothing more than that," said the helper, "then we canwell spend the night here, for we never show fear nor disgust."The helper was speaking for himself, for the hunter thought somethingquite different, but he kept his mouth shut and surrendered himself tofate.The maiden led the two up to a room. Inviting them to be seated, shewent into the kitchen and brought them something to eat. They ate heartilyand felt no disgust.While they were eating, the maiden fetched a tub and placed it in theroom. Then she went for water, and carried water inside until the tub wasfull. The two did not know why she was doing this, and the hunter wasstill secretly afraid.Then suddenly a disgusting serpent came in the door and fell into thetub, splashing the water high. The hunter was now even more frightened,because as far as he could determine, this was the same serpent that sevenyears earlier had abducted his daughter.The maiden then went to the tub and began vigorously to wash theserpent. The longer she washed, the redder the water became, until finallyit was so red that there appeared to be nothing but blood in thecontainer. The two at the table had to take hold of themselves to keeptheir hearts from fluttering like a lamb's tail.After the maiden had washed the serpent clean she helped him out of thetub. Then he began to speak, saying, "Maiden, would you not like to marryme?""No," she said, "I cannot do that. You are a serpent and I am ahuman."He asked her again, "Maiden, won't you marry me?"She said again, "No, I cannot do that. You are a serpent and I am ahuman."Then he asked for the third time, "Maiden, are you sure that you won'tmarry me?"She could no longer refuse him. She felt sorry for him and said,"Because you won't give in, I will accept you. I have been washing you forseven years, so for a while I will continue to be able to wash you."She had hardly said this when the serpent disappeared, and awonderfully handsome youth stood there in its place. As her bridegroom heextended his hand to her and said, "You have now redeemed me. As thanksfor this I will indeed take you as my wife and secure a happy life foryou. In this castle we have possessions enough, and the castle itself willno longer be enchanted, as it was until now."The he led the maiden to the hunter and asked him, "Do you knowher?""Why should I know her?" said the hunter."Look at her carefully," said the youth, and tell me if this is notyour daughter. I was banished seven years before she was born. Then I hadto wait thirteen years before bringing her to my castle. For seven yearsshe has had to wash me every day. Now the magic has been broken, and Iwill take her to be my wife. The rest of you no longer must suffer frompoverty. My wealth would be sufficient to care for you even if you hadmore children than you actually have."The hunter did not know what was happening to him as he heard this. Helooked first at the maiden and then at the youth, and could not fullybelieve that the woman was his child and the man his future son in law.But if he could trust in his own eyes then he had to believe that this wasreally his daughter standing before him, and he did not know why he shouldnot believe the youth. Beside himself with joy, he jumped up and embracedthem both, and then for a long time expressed thanks that everything hadconcluded so well.The next day they all went together to the hunter's house andintroduced themselves to the hunter's wife, telling her the whole story.It cannot be stated how happy she was, and she hurriedly beganpreparations for the wedding. When everything was ready the wedding wascelebrated with great splendor. From this time forth the hunter's familyhad the best possible life with the daughter's husband. And they all livedhappily together until the end of their lives.(Heard in Meran)