Long ago, a poor widow woman lived down near the iron forge, byEnniscorth, and she was so poor she had no clothes to put on her son.so she used to fix him in the ash hole, near the fire, and pile thewarm ashes about him. and according as he grew up, she sunk the pitdeeper. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat skin, and fastenedit round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down thestreet. So says she to him next morning, "Tom, you thief, you neverdone any good yet, and you six foot high, and past nineteen. take thatrope and bring me a faggot from the wood.""Never say't twice, mother," says Tom "here goes."When he had it gathered and tied, what should come up but a big giant,nine foot high, and made a lick of a club at him. Well become Tom, hejumped a one side, and picked up a ram pike. and the first crack hegave the big fellow, he made him kiss the clod."If you have e'er a prayer," says Tom, "now's the time to say it,before I make fragments of you.""I have no prayers," says the giant. "but if you spare my life I'llgive you that club. and as long as you keep from sin, you'll win everybattle you ever fight with it."Tom made no bones about letting him off. and as soon as he got the clubin his hands, he sat down on the bresna, and gave it a tap with thekippeen, and says, "Faggot, I had great trouble gathering you, and runthe risk of my life for you, the least you can do is to carry me home."And sure enough, the wind o' the word was all it wanted. It went offthrough the wood, groaning and crackling, till it came to the widow'sdoor.Well, when the sticks were all burned, Tom was sent off again to pickmore. and this time he had to fight with a giant that had two heads onhim. Tom had a little more trouble with him that's all. and theprayers he said, was to give Tom a fife. that nobody could help dancingwhen he was playing it. Begonies, he made the big faggot dance home,with himself sitting on it. The next giant was a beautiful boy withthree heads on him. He had neither prayers nor catechism no more northe others. and so he gave Tom a bottle of green ointment, thatwouldn't let you be burned, nor scalded, nor wounded. "And now," sayshe, "there's no more of us. You may come and gather sticks here tilllittle Lunacy Day in Harvest, without giant or fairy man to disturbyou."Well, now, Tom was prouder nor ten paycocks, and used to take a walkdown street in the heel of the evening. but some o' the little boys hadno more manners than if they were Dublin jackeens, and put out theirtongues at Tom's club and Tom's goat skin. He didn't like that at all,and it would be mean to give one of them a clout. At last, what shouldcome through the town but a kind of a bellman, only it's a big bugle hehad, and a huntsman's cap on his head, and a kind of a painted shirt.So this he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to callhim bugleman, maybe, proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter wasso melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and thather father would grant her in marriage to whoever could make her laughthree times."That's the very thing for me to try," says Tom. and so, withoutburning any more daylight, he kissed his mother, curled his club at thelittle boys, and off he set along the yalla highroad to the town ofDublin.At last Tom came to one of the city gates, and the guards laughed andcursed at him instead of letting him in. Tom stood it all for a littletime, but at last one of them out of fun, as he said drove hisbayonet half an inch or so into his side. Tom done nothing but take thefellow by the scruff o' the neck and the waistband of his corduroys,and fling him into the canal. Some run to pull the fellow out, andothers to let manners into the vulgarian with their swords and daggers.but a tap from his club sent them headlong into the moat or down on thestones, and they were soon begging him to stay his hands.So at last one of them was glad enough to show Tom the way to thepalace yard. and there was the king, and the queen, and the princess,in a gallery, looking at all sorts of wrestling, and sword playing, andlong dances, and mumming, all to please the princess. but not a smilecame over her handsome face.Well, they all stopped when they seen the young giant, with his boy'sface, and long black hair, and his short curly beard for his poormother couldn't afford to buy razors and his great strong arms, andbare legs, and no covering but the goat skin that reached from hiswaist to his knees. But an envious wizened bit of a fellow, with a redhead, that wished to be married to the princess, and didn't like howshe opened her eyes at Tom, came forward, and asked his business verysnappishly."My business," says Tom, says he, "is to make the beautiful princess,God bless her, laugh three times.""Do you see all them merry fellows and skilful swordsmen," says theother, "that could eat you up with a grain of salt, and not a mother'ssoul of 'em ever got a laugh from her these seven years?"So the fellows gathered round Tom, and the bad man aggravated him tillhe told them he didn't care a pinch o' snuff for the whole bilin' of'em. let 'em come on, six at a time, and try what they could do.The king, who was too far off to hear what they were saying, asked whatdid the stranger want."He wants," says the red headed fellow, "to make hares of your bestmen.""Oh!" says the king, "if that's the way, let one of 'em turn out andtry his mettle."So one stood forward, with sword and pot lid, and made a cut at Tom. Hestruck the fellow's elbow with the club, and up over their heads flewthe sword, and down went the owner of it on the gravel from a thump hegot on the helmet. Another took his place, and another, and another,and then half a dozen at once, and Tom sent swords, helmets, shields,and bodies, rolling over and over, and themselves bawling out that theywere kilt, and disabled, and damaged, and rubbing their poor elbows andhips, and limping away. Tom contrived not to kill any one. and theprincess was so amused, that she let a great sweet laugh out of herthat was heard over all the yard."King of Dublin," says Tom, "I've quarter your daughter."And the king didn't know whether he was glad or sorry, and all theblood in the princess's heart run into her cheeks.So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dinewith the royal family. Next day, Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the sizeof a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading about the walls, andeating people and cattle. and said what a pleasure it would give theking to have it killed."With all my heart," says Tom. "send a jackeen to show me where helives, and we'll see how he behaves to a stranger."The princess was not well pleased, for Tom looked a different personwith fine clothes and a nice green birredh over his long curly hair.and besides, he'd got one laugh out of her. However, the king gave hisconsent. and in an hour and a half the horrible wolf was walking intothe palace yard, and Tom a step or two behind, with his club on hisshoulder, just as a shepherd would be walking after a pet lamb.The king and queen and princess were safe up in their gallery, but theofficers and people of the court that wor padrowling about the greatbawn, when they saw the big baste coming in, gave themselves up, andbegan to make for doors and gates. and the wolf licked his chops, as ifhe was saying, "Wouldn't I enjoy a breakfast off a couple of yez!"The king shouted out, "O Tom with the Goat skin, take away thatterrible wolf, and you must have all my daughter."But Tom didn't mind him a bit. He pulled out his flute and began toplay like vengeance. and dickens a man or boy in the yard but beganshovelling away heel and toe, and the wolf himself was obliged to geton his hind legs and dance "Tatther Jack Walsh," along with the rest. Agood deal of the people got inside, and shut the doors, the way thehairy fellow wouldn't pin them. but Tom kept playing, and the outsiderskept dancing and shouting, and the wolf kept dancing and roaring withthe pain his legs were giving him. and all the time he had his eyes onRedhead, who was shut out along with the rest. Wherever Redhead went,the wolf followed, and kept one eye on him and the other on Tom, to seeif he would give him leave to eat him. But Tom shook his head, andnever stopped the tune, and Redhead never stopped dancing and bawling,and the wolf dancing and roaring, one leg up and the other down, and heready to drop out of his standing from fair tiresomeness.When the princess seen that there was no fear of any one being kilt,she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in, that she gaveanother great laugh. and well become Tom, out he cried, "King ofDublin, I have two halves of your daughter.""Oh, halves or alls," says the king, "put away that divel of a wolf,and we'll see about it."So Tom put his flute in his pocket, and says he to the baste that wassittin' on his currabingo ready to faint, "Walk off to your mountain,my fine fellow, and live like a respectable baste. and if ever I findyou come within seven miles of any town, I'll "He said no more, but spit in his fist, and gave a flourish of his club.It was all the poor divel of a wolf wanted: he put his tail between hislegs, and took to his pumps without looking at man or mortal, andneither sun, moon, or stars ever saw him in sight of Dublin again.At dinner every one laughed but the foxy fellow. and sure enough he waslaying out how he'd settle poor Tom next day."Well, to be sure!" says he, "King of Dublin, you are in luck. There'sthe Danes moidhering us to no end. Deuce run to Lusk wid 'em! and ifany one can save us from 'em, it is this gentleman with the goat skin.There is a flail hangin' on the collar beam, in hell, and neither Danenor devil can stand before it.""So," says Tom to the king, "will you let me have the other half of theprincess if I bring you the flail?""No, no," says the princess. "I'd rather never be your wife than seeyou in that danger."But Redhead whispered and nudged Tom about how shabby it would look toreneague the adventure. So he asked which way he was to go, and Redheaddirected him.Well, he travelled and travelled, till he came in sight of the walls ofhell. and, bedad, before he knocked at the gates, he rubbed himselfover with the greenish ointment. When he knocked, a hundred little impspopped their heads out through the bars, and axed him what he wanted."I want to speak to the big divel of all," says Tom: "open the gate."It wasn't long till the gate was thrune open, and the Ould Boy receivedTom with bows and scrapes, and axed his business."My business isn't much," says Tom. "I only came for the loan of thatflail that I see hanging on the collar beam, for the king of Dublin togive a thrashing to the Danes.""Well," says the other, "the Danes is much better customers to me. butsince you walked so far I won't refuse. Hand that flail," says he to ayoung imp. and he winked the far off eye at the same time. So, whilesome were barring the gates, the young devil climbed up, and took downthe flail that had the handstaff and booltheen both made out of red hotiron. The little vagabond was grinning to think how it would burn thehands o' Tom, but the dickens a burn it made on him, no more nor if itwas a good oak sapling."Thankee," says Tom. "Now would you open the gate for a body, and I'llgive you no more trouble.""Oh, tramp!" says Ould Nick. "is that the way? It is easier gettinginside them gates than getting out again. Take that tool from him, andgive him a dose of the oil of stirrup."So one fellow put out his claws to seize on the flail, but Tom gave himsuch a welt of it on the side of the head that he broke off one of hishorns, and made him roar like a devil as he was. Well, they rushed atTom, but he gave them, little and big, such a thrashing as they didn'tforget for a while. At last says the ould thief of all, rubbing hiselbow, "Let the fool out. and woe to whoever lets him in again, greator small."So out marched Tom, and away with him, without minding the shouting andcursing they kept up at him from the tops of the walls. and when he gothome to the big bawn of the palace, there never was such running andracing as to see himself and the flail. When he had his story told, helaid down the flail on the stone steps, and bid no one for their livesto touch it. If the king, and queen, and princess, made much of himbefore, they made ten times more of him now. but Redhead, the meanscruff hound, stole over, and thought to catch hold of the flail tomake an end of him. His fingers hardly touched it, when he let a roarout of him as if heaven and earth were coming together, and keptflinging his arms about and dancing, that it was pitiful to look athim. Tom run at him as soon as he could rise, caught his hands in hisown two, and rubbed them this way and that, and the burning pain leftthem before you could reckon one. Well the poor fellow, between thepain that was only just gone, and the comfort he was in, had thecomicalest face that you ever see, it was such a mixtherum gatherum oflaughing and crying. Everybody burst out a laughing the princess couldnot stop no more than the rest. and then says Tom, "Now, ma'am, ifthere were fifty halves of you, I hope you'll give me them all."Well, the princess looked at her father, and by my word, she came overto Tom, and put her two delicate hands into his two rough ones, and Iwish it was myself was in his shoes that day!Tom would not bring the flail into the palace. You may be sure no otherbody went near it. and when the early risers were passing next morning,they found two long clefts in the stone, where it was after burningitself an opening downwards, nobody could tell how far. But a messengercame in at noon, and said that the Danes were so frightened when theyheard of the flail coming into Dublin, that they got into their ships,and sailed away.Well, I suppose, before they were married, Tom got some man, like PatMara of Tomenine, to learn him the "principles of politeness,"fluxions, gunnery, and fortification, decimal fractions, practice, andthe rule of three direct, the way he'd be able to keep up aconversation with the royal family. Whether he ever lost his timelearning them sciences, I'm not sure, but it's as sure as fate that hismother never more saw any want till the end of her days.MAN OR WOMAN BOY OR GIRL THAT READS WHAT FOLLOWS 3 TIMES SHALL FALLASLEEP AN HUNDRED YEARSJOHN D. BATTEN DREW THIS AUG. 20TH, 1801 GOOD NIGHT