From the Japanische Murchen und Sagen.Near a big river, and between two high mountains, a man and his wifelived in a cottage a long, long time ago. A dense forest lay all roundthe cottage, and there was hardly a path or a tree in the whole woodthat was not familiar to the peasant from his boyhood. In one of hiswanderings he had made friends with a hare, and many an hour the twopassed together, when the man was resting by the roadside, eating hisdinner.Now this strange friendship was observed by the Tanuki, a wicked,quarrelsome beast, who hated the peasant, and was never tired of doinghim an ill turn. Again and again he had crept to the hut, and findingsome choice morsel put away for the little hare, had either eaten it ifhe thought it nice, or trampled it to pieces so that no one else shouldget it, and at last the peasant lost patience, and made up his mind hewould have the Tanuki's blood.So for many days the man lay hidden, waiting for the Tanuki to come by,and when one morning he marched up the road thinking of nothing but thedinner he was going to steal, the peasant threw himself upon him andbound his four legs tightly, so that he could not move. Then he draggedhis enemy joyfully to the house, feeling that at length he had got thebetter of the mischievous beast which had done him so many ill turns.'He shall pay for them with his skin,' he said to his wife. 'We willfirst kill him, and then cook him.' So saying, he hanged the Tanuki,head downwards, to a beam, and went out to gather wood for a fire.Meanwhile the old woman was standing at the mortar pounding the risethat was to serve them for the week with a pestle that made her armsache with its weight. Suddenly she heard something whining and weepingin the corner, and, stopping her work, she looked round to see what itwas. That was all that the rascal wanted, and he put on directly hismost humble air, and begged the woman in his softest voice to loosen hisbonds, which her hurting him sorely. She was filled with pity for him,but did not dare to set him free, as she knew that her husband would bevery angry. The Tanuki, however, did not despair, and seeing that herheart was softened, began his prayers anew. 'He only asked to have hisbonds taken from him,' he said. 'He would give his word not to attemptto escape, and if he was once set free he could soon pound her rice forher.' 'Then you can have a little rest,' he went on, 'for rice poundingis very tiring work, and not at all fit for weak women.' These lastwords melted the good woman completely, and she unfastened the bondsthat held him. Poor foolish creature! In one moment the Tanuki hadseized her, stripped off all her clothes, and popped her in the mortar.In a few minutes more she was pounded as fine as the rice. and notcontent with that, the Tanuki placed a pot on the hearth and made readyto cook the peasant a dinner from the flesh of his own wife!When everything was complete he looked out of the door, and saw the oldman coming from the forest carrying a large bundle of wood. Quick aslightning the Tanuki not only put on the woman's clothes, but, as he wasa magician, assumed her form as well. Then he took the wood, kindled thefire, and very soon set a large dinner before the old man, who was veryhungry, and had forgotten for the moment all about his enemy. But whenthe Tanuki saw that he had eaten his fill and would be thinking abouthis prisoner, he hastily shook off the clothes behind a door and tookhis own shape. Then he said to the peasant, 'You are a nice sort ofperson to seize animals and to talk of killing them! You are caught inyour own net. It is your own wife that you have eaten, and if you wantto find her bones you have only to look under the floor.' With thesewords he turned and made for the forest.The old peasant grew cold with horror as he listened, and seemed frozento the place where he stood. When he had recovered himself a little,he collected the bones of his dead wife, buried them in the garden, andswore over the grave to be avenged on the Tanuki. After everything wasdone he sat himself down in his lonely cottage and wept bitterly, andthe bitterest thought of all was that he would never be able to forgetthat he had eaten his own wife.While he was thus weeping and wailing his friend the hare passed by,and, hearing the noise, pricked up his ears and soon recognised the oldman's voice. He wondered what had happened, and put his head in at thedoor and asked if anything was the matter. With tears and groans thepeasant told him the whole dreadful story, and the hare, filled withanger and compassion, comforted him as best he could, and promised tohelp him in his revenge. 'The false knave shall not go unpunished,' saidhe.So the first thing he did was to search the house for materials to makean ointment, which he sprinkled plentifully with pepper and then put inhis pocket. Next he took a hatchet, bade farewell to the old man, anddeparted to the forest. He bent his steps to the dwelling of the Tanukiand knocked at the door. The Tanuki, who had no cause to suspect thehare, was greatly pleased to see him, for he noticed the hatchet atonce, and began to lay plots how to get hold of it.To do this he thought he had better offer to accompany the hare, whichwas exactly what the hare wished and expected, for he knew all theTanuki's cunning, and understood his little ways. So he accepted therascal's company with joy, and made himself very pleasant as theystrolled along. When they were wandering in this manner through theforest the hare carelessly raised his hatchet in passing, and cut downsome thick boughs that were hanging over the path, but at length,after cutting down a good big tree, which cost him many hard blows, hedeclared that it was too heavy for him to carry home, and he must justleave it where it was. This delighted the greedy Tanuki, who said thatthey would be no weight for him, so they collected the large branches,which the hare bound tightly on his back. Then he trotted gaily to thehouse, the hare following after with his lighter bundle.By this time the hare had decided what he would do, and as soon as theyarrived, he quietly set on fire the wood on the back of the Tanuki. TheTanuki, who was busy with something else, observed nothing, and onlycalled out to ask what was the meaning of the crackling that he heard.'It is just the rattle of the stones which are rolling down the side ofthe mountain,' the hare said. and the Tanuki was content, and made nofurther remarks, never noticing that the noise really sprang from theburning boughs on his back, until his fur was in flames, and it wasalmost too late to put it out. Shrieking with pain, he let fall theburning wood from his back, and stamped and howled with agony. But thehare comforted him, and told him that he always carried with him anexcellent plaster in case of need, which would bring him instant relief,and taking out his ointment he spread it on a leaf of bamboo, andlaid it on the wound. No sooner did it touch him than the Tanuki leaptyelling into the air, and the hare laughed, and ran to tell his friendthe peasant what a trick he had played on their enemy. But the old manshook his head sadly, for he knew that the villain was only crushed forthe moment, and that he would shortly be revenging himself upon them.No, the only way every to get any peace and quiet was to render theTanuki harmless for ever. Long did the old man and the hare puzzletogether how this was to be done, and at last they decided that theywould make two boats, a small one of wood and a large one of clay. Thenthey fell to work at once, and when the boats were ready and properlypainted, the hare went to the Tanuki, who was still very ill, andinvited him to a great fish catching. The Tanuki was still feeling angrywith the hare about the trick he had played him, but he was weak andvery hungry, so he gladly accepted the proposal, and accompanied thehare to the bank of the river, where the two boats were moored, rockedby the waves. They both looked exactly alike, and the Tanuki only sawthat one was bigger than the other, and would hold more fish, so hesprang into the large one, while the hare climbed into the one which wasmade of wood. They loosened their moorings, and made for the middle ofthe stream, and when they were at some distance from the bank, the haretook his oar, and struck such a heavy blow at the other boat, that itbroke in two. The Tanuki fell straight into the water, and was heldthere by the hare till he was quite dead. Then he put the body in hisboat and rowed to land, and told the old man that his enemy was dead atlast. And the old man rejoiced that his wife was avenged, and he tookthe hare into his house, and they lived together all their days in peaceand quietness upon the mountain.