Know, O King, that last night I was at a party where they made aperfection of the Koran and got together doctors of law andreligion skilled in recitation and intoning. and, when thereaders ended, the table was spread and amongst other things theyset before us was a marinated ragout flavoured with cuminseed. So we sat down, but one of our number held back and refusedto touch it. We conjured him to eat of it but he swore he wouldnot. and, when we again pressed him, he said, "Be not instantwith me. sufficeth me that which hath already befallen me througheating it", and he began reciting:"Shoulder thy tray and go straight to thy goal. And, if suitthee this Kohl why, use this Kohl!"When he ended his verse we said to him, "Allah upon thee, tell usthy reason for refusing to eat of the cumin ragout?" `'If so itbe," he replied, "and needs must I eat of it, I will not do soexcept I wash my hand forty times with soap, forty times withpotash and forty times with galangale, the total beingone hundred and twenty washings." Thereupon the hospitable hostbade his slaves bring water and whatso he required. and the youngman washed his hand as afore mentioned. Then he sat down, as ifdisgusted and frightened withal, and dipping his hand in theragout, began eating and at the same time showing signs of anger.And we wondered at him with extreme wonderment, for his handtrembled and the morsel in it shook and we saw that his thumb hadbeen cut off and he ate with his four fingers only. So we said tohim, "Allah upon thee, what happened to thy thumb? Is thy handthus by the creation of God or hath some accident befallen it?""O my brothers," he answered, "it is not only thus with thisthumb, but also with my other thumb and with both my great toes,as you shall see." So saying he uncovered his left hand and hisfeet, and we saw that the left hand was even as the right and inlike manner that each of his feet lacked its great toe. When wesaw him after this fashion, our amazement waxed still greater andwe said to him, "We have hardly patience enough to await thyhistory and to hear the manner of the cutting off of thy thumbs,and the reason of thy washing both hands one hundred and twentytimes." Know then, said he, that my father was chief of themerchants and the wealthiest of them all in Baghdad city duringthe reign of the Caliph Harun al Rashid. and he was much given towine drinking and listening to the lute and the other instrumentsof pleasaunce. so that when he died he left nothing. I buried himand had perlections of the Koran made for him, and mourned forhim days and nights: then I opened his shop and found that he hadleft in it few goods, while his debts were many. However Icompounded with his creditors for time to settle their demandsand betook myself to buying and selling, paying them somethingfrom week to week on account. and I gave not over doing this tillI had cleared off his obligations in full and began adding to myprincipal. One day, as I sat in my shop, suddenly andunexpectedly there appeared before me a young lady, than whom Inever saw a fairer, wearing the richest raiment and ornaments andriding a she mule, with one negro slave walking before her andanother behind her. She drew rein at the head of the exchangebazaar and entered followed by an eunuch who said to her, "O mylady come out and away without telling anyone, lest thou light afire which will burn us all up." Moreover he stood before herguarding her from view whilst she looked at the merchants' shops.She found none open but mine. so she came up with the eunuchbehind her and sitting down in my shop saluted me. never heard Iaught fairer than her speech or sweeter than her voice. Then sheunveiled her face, and I saw that she was like the moon and Istole a glance at her whose sight caused me a thousand sighs, andmy heart was captivated with love of her, and I kept lookingagain and again upon her face repeating these verses: "Say to the charmer in the dove hued veil, Death would bewelcome to abate thy bale!Favour me with thy favours that I live: See, I stretch forth mypalm to take thy vail!When she heard my verse she answered me saying: "I've lost all patience by despite of you. My heart knowsnothing save love plight to you!If aught I sight save charms so bright of you. My parting endnot in the sight of you!I swear I'll ne'er forget the right of you. And fain thisbreast would soar to height of you:You made me drain the love cup, and I lief A love cup tenderfor delight of you:Take this my form where'er you go, and when You die, entombme in the site of you:Call on me in my grave, and hear my bones Sigh their responsesto the shright of you:And were I asked 'Of God what wouldst thou see?' I answer,'first His will then Thy decree!'When she ended her verse she asked me, "O youth, hast thou anyfair stuffs by thee?". and I answered, "O my lady, thy slave ispoor. but have patience till the merchants open their shops, andI will suit thee with what thou wilt." Then we sat talking, I andshe (and I was drowned in the sea of her love, dazed in thedesert of my passion for her), till the merchants openedtheir shops. when I rose and fetched her all she sought to thetune of five thousand dirhams. She gave the stuff to the eunuchand, going forth by the door of the Exchange, she mounted muleand went away, without telling me whence she came, and I wasashamed to speak of such trifle. When the merchants dunned me forthe price, I made myself answerable for five thousand dirhams andwent home, drunken with the love of her. They set supper beforeme and I ate a mouthful, thinking only of her beauty andloveliness, and sought to sleep, but sleep came not to me. Andsuch was my condition for a whole week, when the merchantsrequired their monies of me, but I persuaded them to havepatience for another week, at the end of which time she againappeared mounted on a she mule and attended by her eunuch and twoslaves. She saluted me and said, "O my master, we have been longin bringing thee the price of the stuffs. but now fetch theShroff and take thy monies." So I sent for the money changer andthe eunuch counted out the coin before him and made it over tome. Then we sat talking, I and she, till the market opened, whenshe said to me, "Get me this and that." So I got her from themerchants whatso she wanted, and she took it and went awaywithout saying a word to me about the price. As soon as she wasout of sight, I repented me of what I had done. for the worth ofthe stuffs bought for her amounted to a thousand dinars, and Isaid in my soul, "What manner of love is this? She hath broughtme five thousand dirhams, and hath taken goods for a thousanddinars." I feared lest I should be beggared throughhaving to pay the merchants their money, and I said, "They knownone other but me. this lovely lady is naught but a cheat and aswindler, who hath diddled me with her beauty and grace. for shesaw that I was a mere youth and laughed at me for not asking heraddress." I ceased not to be troubled by these doubts and fears,as she was absent more than a month, till the merchants pesteredme for their money and were so hard upon me that I put up myproperty for sale and stood on the very brink of ruin. However,as I was sitting in my shop one day, drowned in melancholymusings, she suddenly rode up and, dismounting at the bazaargate, came straight towards me. When I saw her all my cares fellfrom me and I forgot every trouble. She came close up to me andgreeted me with her sweet voice and pleasant speech and presentlysaid, "Fetch me the Shroff and weigh thy money." So shegave me the price of what goods I had gotten for her and more,and fell to talking freely with me, till I was like to die of joyand delight. Presently she asked me, "Hast thou a wife?". and Ianswered "No, indeed: I have never known woman". and began toshed tears. Quoth she "Why weepest thou?" Quoth I "It isnothing!" Then giving the eunuch some of the gold pieces, Ibegged him to be go between in the matter. but he laughedand said, "She is more in love with thee than thou with her: shehath no occasion for the stuffs she hath bought of thee and didall this only for the love of thee. so ask of her what thou wiltand she will deny thee nothing." When she saw me giving thedinars to the eunuch, she returned and sat down again. and I saidto her, "Be charitable to thy slave and pardon him what he isabout to say." Then I told her what was in my mind and sheassented and said to the eunuch, "Thou shalt carry my message tohim," adding to me, "And do thou whatso the eunuch biddeth thee."Then she got up and went away, and I paid the merchants theirmonies and they all profited. but as for me, regret at thebreaking off of our intercourse was all my gain. and I slept notthe whole of that night. However, before many days passed hereunuch came to me, and I entreated him honourably and asked himafter his mistress. "Truly she is sick with love of thee," hereplied and I rejoined, "Tell me who and what she is." Quoth he,"The Lady Zubaydah, queen consort of Harun al Rashid, brought herup as a rearling and hath advanced her to be stewardessof the Harim, and gave her the right of going in and out of herown sweet will. She spoke to her lady of thee and begged her tomarry her to thee. but she said, 'I will not do this, till I seethe young man. and, if he be worthy of thee, I will marry thee tohim.' So now we look for the moment to smuggle thee into thePalace and if thou succeed in entering privily thou wilt win thywish to wed her. but if the affair get wind, the Lady Zubaydahwill strike off thy head. What sayest thou to this?" Ianswered, "I will go with thee and abide the risk whereof thouspeakest." Then said he, "As soon as it is night, go to theMosque built by the Lady Zubaydah on the Tigris and pray thenight prayers and sleep there." "With love and gladness," criedI. So at nightfall I repaired to the Mosque, where I prayed andpassed the night. With earliest dawn, behold, came sundry eunuchsin a skiff with a number of empty chests which they deposited inthe Mosque. then all of them went their ways but one, and lookingcuriously at him, I saw he was our go between. Presently in camethe handmaiden, my mistress, walking straight up to us. and Irose to her and embraced her while she kissed me and shedtears. We talked awhile. after which she made me get intoone of the chests which she locked upon me. Presently the othereunuchs came back with a quantity of packages and she fell tostowing them in the chests, which she locked down, one by one,till all were shut. When all was done the eunuchs embarked thechests in the boat and made for the Lady Zubaydah's palace. Withthis, thought began to beset me and I said to myself, "Verily thylust and wantonness will be the death of thee. and the questionis after all shalt thou win to thy wish or not?" And I began toweep, boxed up as I was in the box and suffering from cramp. andI prayed Allah that He deliver me from the dangerous strait I wasin, whilst the boat gave not over going on till it reached thePalace gate where they lifted out the chests and amongst themthat in which I was. Then they carried them in, passing through atroop of eunuchs, guardians of the Harim and of the ladies behindthe curtain, till they came to the post of the Eunuch inChief who started up from his slumbers and shouted to thedamsel "What is in those chests?" "They are full of wares for theLady Zubaydah!" "Open them, one by one, that I may see what is inthem." "And wherefore wouldst thou open them?" "Give me no wordsand exceed not in talk! These chests must and shall be opened."So saying, he sprang to his feet, and the first which theybrought to him to open was that wherein I was. and, when I felthis hands upon it, my senses failed me and I bepissed myself inmy funk, the water running out of the box. Then said she to theEunuch in Chief, "O steward! thou wilt cause me to be killed andthyself too, for thou hast damaged goods worth ten thousanddinars. This chest contains coloured dresses, and four gallonflasks of Zemzem water. and now one of them hath gotunstoppered and the water is running out over the clothes and itwill spoil their colours." The eunuch answered, "Take up thyboxes and get thee gone to the curse of God!" So the slavescarried off all the chests, including mine. and hastened on withthem till suddenly I heard the voice of one saying, "Alack, andalack! the Caliph! the Caliph !" When that cry struck mine ears Idied in my skin and said a saying which never yet shamed thesayer, "There is no Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah,the Glorious, the Great! I and only I have brought this calamityupon myself." Presently I heard the Caliph say to my mistress, "Aplague on thee, what is in those boxes?". and she answered,"Dresses for the Lady Zubaydah". whereupon he, "Open thembefore me!" When I heard this I died my death outright and saidto myself, "By Allah, today is the very last of my days in thisworld: if I come safe out of this I am to marry her and no morewords, but detection stares me in the face and my head is as goodas stricken off." Then I repeated the profession of Faith,saying, "There is no god but the God, and Mohammed is the Apostleof God!" And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased tosay her permitted say.When it was the Twenty eighth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the youngmerchant continued as follows: Now when I testified, "I bearwitness that there is no god save the God," I heard my mistressthe handmaid declare to the Caliph, "These chests, O Commander ofthe Faithful, have been committed to my charge by the LadyZubaydah, and she doth not wish their contents to be seen by anyone." "No matter!" quoth the Caliph, "needs must they be opened,I will see what is in them". and he cried aloud to the eunuchs,"Bring the chests here before me." At this I made sure of death(without benefit of a doubt) and swooned away. Then the eunuchsbrought the chests up to him one after another and he fell toinspecting the contents, but he saw in them only otters andstuffs and fine dresses. and they ceased not opening the chestsand he ceased not looking to see what was in them, finding onlyclothes and such matters, till none remained unopened but the boxin which I was boxed. They put forth their hands to open it, butmy mistress the handmaid made haste and said to the Caliph, "Thisone thou shalt see only in the presence of the Lady Zubaydah, forthat which is in it is her secret." When he heard this he gaveorders to carry in the chests. so they took up that wherein I wasand bore it with the rest into the Harim and set it down in themidst of the saloon. and indeed my spittle was dried up for veryfear. Then my mistress opened the box and took me out,saying, "Fear not: no harm shall betide thee now nor dread. butbroaden thy breast and strengthen thy heart and sit thee downtill the Lady Zubaydah come, and surely thou shalt win thy wishof me." So I sat down and, after a while, in came ten handmaidens, virgins like moons, and ranged themselves in two rows,five facing five. and after them twenty other damsels, highbosomed virginity, surrounding the Lady Zubaydah who could hardlywalk for the weight of her raiment and ornaments. As she drewnear, the slave girls dispersed from around her, and I advancedand kissed the ground between her hands. She signed to me to sitand, when I sat down before her chair, she began questioning meof my forbears and family and condition, to which I made suchanswers that pleased her, and she said to my mistress, "Ournurturing of thee, O damsel, hath not disappointed us." Then shesaid to me, "Know that this handmaiden is to us even as our ownchild and she is a trust committed to thee by Allah." I againkissed the ground before her, well pleased that I should marry mymistress, and she bade me abide ten days in the palace. So Iabode there ten days, during which time I saw not my mistress noranybody save one of the concubines, who brought me the morningand evening meals. After this the Lady Zubaydah took counsel withthe Caliph on the marriage of her favourite handmaid, and he gaveleave and assigned to her a wedding portion of ten thousand goldpieces. So the Lady Zubaydah sent for the Kazi and witnesses whowrote our marriage contract, after which the women made readysweetmeats and rich viands and distributed them among all theOdahs of the Harim. Thus they did other ten days, at theend of which time my mistress went to the baths.Meanwhile, they set before me a tray of food where on werevarious meats and among those dishes, which were enough to dazethe wits, was a bowl of cumin ragout containing chickens breasts,fricandoed and flavoured with sugar, pistachios, musk androse water. Then, by Allah, fair sirs, I did not long hesitate.but took my seat before the ragout and fell to and ate of it tillI could no more. After this I wiped my hands, but forgot to washthem. and sat till it grew dark, when the wax candles werelighted and the singing women came in with their tambourines andproceeded to display the bride in various dresses and to carryher in procession from room to room all round the palace, gettingtheir palms crossed with gold. Then they brought her to me anddisrobed her. When I found myself alone with her on the bed Iembraced her, hardly believing in our union. but she smelt thestrong odours of the ragout upon my hands and forth with criedout with an exceeding loud cry, at which the slave girls camerunning to her from all sides. I trembled with alarm, unknowingwhat was the matter, and the girls asked her, "What aileth thee,O our sister?" She answered them, "Take this mad man away fromme: I had thought he was a man of sense!" Quoth I to her, "Whatmakes thee think me mad?" Quoth she, "Thou madman' what made theeeat of cumin ragout and forget to wash thy hand? By Allah, I willrequite thee for thy misconduct. Shall the like of thee come tobed with the like of me with unclean hands?" Then shetook from her side a plaited scourge and came down with it on myback and the place where I sit till her forearms were benumbedand I fainted away from the much beating. when she said to thehandmaids, "Take him and carry him to the Chief of Police, thathe may strike off the hand wherewith he ate of the cumin ragout,and which he did not wash." When I heard this I said, "There isno Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah! Wilt thou cut offmy hand, because I ate of a cumin ragout and did not wash?" Thehandmaidens also interceded with her and kissed her hand saying,"O our sister, this man is a simpleton, punish him not for whathe hath done this nonce." but she answered, "By Allah, there isno help but that I dock him of somewhat, especially the offendingmember." Then she went away and I saw no more of her for tendays, during which time she sent me meat and drink by a slavegirl who told me that she had fallen sick from the smell of thecumin ragout. After that time she came to me and said, "O blackof face! I will teach thee how to eat cumin ragoutwithout washing thy hands!" Then she cried out to the handmaids,who pinioned me. and she took a sharp razor and cut off my thumbsand great toes. even as you see, O fair assembly! Thereupon Iswooned away, and she sprinkled some powder of healing herbs uponthe stumps and when the blood was stanched, I said, "Never againwill I eat of cumin ragout without washing my hands forty timeswith potash and forty times with galangale and forty times withsoap!" And she took of me an oath and bound me by a covenant tothat effect. When, therefore, you brought me the cumin ragout mycolour changed and I said to myself, "It was this very dish thatcaused the cutting off of my thumbs and great toes." and, whenyou forced me, I said, "Needs must I fulfil the oath I havesworn." "And what befell thee after this?" asked those present.and he answered, "When I swore to her, her anger was appeased andI slept with her that night. We abode thus awhile till she saidto me one day, "Verily the Palace of the Caliph is not a pleasantplace for us to live in, and none ever entered it save thyself.and thou only by grace of the Lady Zubaydah. Now she hath givenme fifty thousand dinars," adding, "Take this money and go outand buy us a fair dwelling house." So I fared forth and bought afine and spacious mansion, whither she removed all the wealth sheowned and what riches I had gained in stuffs and costly rarities.Such is the cause of the cutting off of my thumbs and great toes.We ate (continued the Reeve), and were returning to our homeswhen there befell me with the Hunchback that thou wottest of.This then is my story, and peace be with thee! Quoth the King."This story is on no wise more delectable than the story of theHunchback. nay, it is even less so, and there is no help for thehanging of the whole of you." Then came forward the Jewishphysician and kissing the ground said, "O King of the age, I willtell thee an history more wonderful than that of the Hunchback.""Tell on," said the King of China. so he began the