In a certain village there lived two people who had both the same name.Both were called Klaus, but one owned four horses and the other onlyone. In order to distinguish the one from the other, the one who hadfour horses was called Big Klaus, and the one who had only one horse,Little Klaus. Now you shall hear what befell them both, for this is atrue story.The whole week through Little Klaus had to plough for Big Klaus, andlend him his one horse. then Big Klaus lent him his four horses, butonly once a week, and that was on Sunday. Hurrah! how loudly LittleKlaus cracked his whip over all the five horses! for they were indeed asgood as his on this one day. The sun shone brightly, and all the bellsin the church towers were pealing. the people were dressed in their bestclothes, and were going to church, with their hymn books under theirarms, to hear the minister preach. They saw Little Klaus ploughing withthe five horses. but he was so happy that he kept on cracking his whip,and calling out 'Gee up, my five horses!''You mustn't say that,' said Big Klaus. 'Only one horse is yours.'But as soon as someone else was going by Little Klaus forgot that hemust not say it, and called out 'Gee up, my five horses!''Now you had better stop that,' said Big Klaus, 'for if you say it oncemore I will give your horse such a crack on the head that it will dropdown dead on the spot!''I really won't say it again!' said Little Klaus. But as soon as morepeople passed by, and nodded him good morning, he became so happy inthinking how well it looked to have five horses ploughing his fieldthat, cracking his whip, he called out 'Gee up, my five horses!''I'll see to your horses!' said Big Klaus. and, seizing an iron bar, hestruck Little Klaus' one horse such a blow on the head that it fell downand died on the spot.'Alas! Now I have no horse!' said Little Klaus, beginning to cry. Thenhe flayed the skin off his horse, dried it, and put it in a sack, whichhe threw over his shoulder, and went into the town to sell it. He had along way to go, and had to pass through a great dark forest. A dreadfulstorm came on, in which he lost his way, and before he could get on tothe right road night came on, and it was impossible to reach the townthat evening.Right in front of him was a large farm house. The window shutters wereclosed, but the light came through the chinks. 'I should very much liketo be allowed to spend the night there,' thought Little Klaus. and hewent and knocked at the door. The farmer's wife opened it, but when sheheard what he wanted she told him to go away. her husband was not athome, and she took in no strangers.'Well, I must lie down outside,' said Little Klaus. and the farmer'swife shut the door in his face. Close by stood a large haystack,and between it and the house a little out house, covered with a flatthatched roof.'I can lie down there,' thought Little Klaus, looking at the roof. 'itwill make a splendid bed, if only the stork won't fly down and bite mylegs.' For a live stork was standing on the roof, where it had its nest.So Little Klaus crept up into the out house, where he lay down, and madehimself comfortable for the night. The wooden shutters over the windowswere not shut at the top, and he could just see into the room.There stood a large table, spread with wine and roast meat and abeautiful fish. The farmer's wife and the sexton sat at the table, butthere was no one else. She was filling up his glass, while he stuck hisfork into the fish which was his favourite dish.'If one could only get some of that!' thought Little Klaus, stretchinghis head towards the window. Ah, what delicious cakes he saw standingthere! It WAS a feast!Then he heard someone riding along the road towards the house. It wasthe farmer coming home. He was a very worthy man. but he had one greatpeculiarity namely, that he could not bear to see a sexton. If hesaw one he was made quite mad. That was why the sexton had gone to saygood day to the farmer's wife when he knew that her husband was not athome, and the good woman therefore put in front of him the best food shehad. But when they heard the farmer coming they were frightened, and thefarmer's wife begged the sexton to creep into a great empty chest. Hedid so, as he knew the poor man could not bear to see a sexton. The wifehastily hid all the beautiful food and the wine in her oven. for if herhusband had seen it, he would have been sure to ask what it all meant.'Oh, dear! oh, dear!' groaned Little Klaus up in the shed, when he sawthe good food disappearing.'Is anybody up there?' asked the farmer, catching sight of Little Klaus.'Why are you lying there? Come with me into the house.'Then Little Klaus told him how he had lost his way, and begged to beallowed to spend the night there.'Yes, certainly,' said the farmer. 'but we must first have something toeat!'The wife received them both very kindly, spread a long table, and gavethem a large plate of porridge. The farmer was hungry, and ate with agood appetite. but Little Klaus could not help thinking of the deliciousdishes of fish and roast meats and cakes which he knew were in the oven.Under the table at his feet he had laid the sack with the horse skin init, for, as we know, he was going to the town to sell it. The porridgedid not taste good to him, so he trod upon his sack, and the dry skin inthe sack squeaked loudly.'Hush!' said Little Klaus to his sack, at the same time treading on itagain so that it squeaked even louder than before.'Hallo! what have you got in your sack?' asked the farmer.'Oh, it is a wizard!' said Little Klaus. 'He says we should not eatporridge, for he has conjured the whole oven full of roast meats andfish and cakes.''Goodness me!' said the farmer. and opening the oven he saw all thedelicious, tempting dishes his wife had hidden there, but which he nowbelieved the wizard in the sack had conjured up for them. The wife couldsay nothing, but she put the food at once on the table, and they ate thefish, the roast meat, and the cakes. Little Klaus now trod again on hissack, so that the skin squeaked.'What does he say now?' asked the farmer.'He says,' replied Little Klans, 'that he has also conjured up for usthree bottles of wine. they are standing in the corner by the oven!'The wife had to fetch the wine which she had hidden, and the farmerdrank and grew very merry. He would very much like to have had such awizard as Little Klaus had in the sack.'Can he conjure up the Devil?' asked the farmer. 'I should like to seehim very much, for I feel just now in very good spirits!''Yes,' said Little Klaus. 'my wizard can do everything that I ask. Isn'tthat true?' he asked, treading on the sack so that it squeaked. 'Do youhear? He says ''Yes.'' but that the Devil looks so ugly that we shouldnot like to see him.''Oh! I'm not at all afraid. What does he look like?''He will show himself in the shape of a sexton!''I say!' said the farmer, 'he must be ugly! You must know that I can'tbear to look at a sexton! But it doesn't matter. I know that it is theDevil, and I sha'n't mind! I feel up to it now. But he must not come toonear me!''I must ask my wizard,' said Little Klaus, treading on the sack andputting his ear to it.'What does he say?''He says you can open the chest in the corner there, and you will seethe Devil squatting inside it. but you must hold the lid so that heshall not escape.''Will you help me to hold him?' begged the farmer, going towards thechest where his wife had hidden the real sexton, who was sitting insidein a terrible fright. The farmer opened the lid a little way, and sawhim inside.'Ugh!' he shrieked, springing back. 'Yes, now I have seen him. he lookedjust like our sexton. Oh, it was horrid!'So he had to drink again, and they drank till far on into the night.'You MUST sell me the wizard,' said the farmer. 'Ask anything you like!I will pay you down a bushelful of money on the spot.''No, I really can't,' said Little Klans. 'Just think how many things Ican get from this wizard!''Ah! I should like to have him so much!' said the farmer, begging veryhard.'Well!' said Little Klaus at last, 'as you have been so good as to giveme shelter to night, I will sell him. You shall have the wizard for abushel of money, but I must have full measure.''That you shall,' said the farmer. 'But you must take the chest withyou. I won't keep it another hour in the house. Who knows that he isn'tin there still?'Little Klaus gave the farmer his sack with the dry skin, and got insteada good bushelful of money. The farmer also gave him a wheelbarrow tocarry away his money and the chest. 'Farewell,' said Little Klaus. andaway he went with his money and the big chest, wherein sat the sexton.On the other side of the wood was a large deep river. The water flowedso rapidly that you could scarcely swim against the stream.A great new bridge had been built over it, on the middle of which LittleKlaus stopped, and said aloud so that the sexton might hear:'Now, what am I to do with this stupid chest? It is as heavy as if itwere filled with stones! I shall only be tired, dragging it along. Iwill throw it into the river. If it swims home to me, well and good. andif it doesn't, it's no matter.'Then he took the chest with one hand and lifted it up a little, as if hewere going to throw it into the water.'No, don't do that!' called out the sexton in the chest. 'Let me get outfirst!''Oh, oh!' said Little Klaus, pretending that he was afraid. 'He is stillin there! I must throw him quickly into the water to drown him!''Oh! no, no!' cried the sexton. 'I will give you a whole bushelful ofmoney if you will let me go!''Ah, that's quite another thing!' said Little Klaus, opening the chest.The sexton crept out very quickly, pushed the empty chest into the waterand went to his house, where he gave Little Klaus a bushel of money. Onehe had had already from the farmer, and now he had his wheelbarrow fullof money.'Well, I have got a good price for the horse!' said he to himself whenhe shook all his money out in a heap in his room. 'This will put BigKlaus in a rage when he hears how rich I have become through my onehorse. but I won't tell him just yet!'So he sent a boy to Big Klaus to borrow a bushel measure from him.'Now what can he want with it?' thought Big Klaus. and he smeared sometar at the bottom, so that of whatever was measured a little shouldremain in it. And this is just what happened. for when he got hismeasure back, three new silver five shilling pieces were sticking to it.What does this mean?' said Big Klaus, and he ran off at once to LittleKlaus.'Where did you get so much money from?''Oh, that was from my horse skin. I sold it yesterday evening.''That's certainly a good price!' said Big Klaus. and running home ingreat haste, he took an axe, knocked all his four horses on the head,skinned them, and went into the town.'Skins! skins! Who will buy skins?' he cried through the streets.All the shoemakers and tanners came running to ask him what he wantedfor them. 'A bushel of money for each,' said Big Klaus.'Are you mad?' they all exclaimed. 'Do you think we have money by thebushel?''Skins! skins! Who will buy skins?' he cried again, and to all who askedhim what they cost, he answered, 'A bushel of money.''He is making game of us,' they said. and the shoemakers seized theiryard measures and the tanners their leathern aprons and they gave BigKlaus a good beating. 'Skins! skins!' they cried mockingly. yes, we willtan YOUR skin for you! Out of the town with him!' they shouted. and BigKlaus had to hurry off as quickly as he could, if he wanted to save hislife.'Aha!' said he when he came home, 'Little Klaus shall pay dearly forthis. I will kill him!'Little Klaus' grandmother had just died. Though she had been very unkindto him, he was very much distressed, and he took the dead woman and laidher in his warm bed to try if he could not bring her back to life.There she lay the whole night, while he sat in the corner and slept on achair, which he had often done before. And in the night as he sat therethe door opened, and Big Klaus came in with his axe. He knew quitewell where Little Klaus's bed stood, and going up to it he struck thegrandmother on the head just where he thought Little Klaus would be.'There!' said he. 'Now you won't get the best of me again!' And he wenthome.'What a very wicked man!' thought Little Klaus. 'He was going to killme! It was a good thing for my grandmother that she was dead already, orelse he would have killed her!'Then he dressed his grandmother in her Sunday clothes, borrowed a horsefrom his neighbour, harnessed the cart to it, sat his grandmother on theback seat so that she could not fall out when he drove, and away theywent. When the sun rose they were in front of a large inn. Little Klausgot down, and went in to get something to drink. The host was very rich.He was a very worthy but hot tempered man.'Good morning!' said he to Little Klaus. 'You are early on the road.''Yes,' said Little Klaus. 'I am going to the town with my grandmother.She is sitting outside in the cart. I cannot bring her in. Will you notgive her a glass of mead? But you will have to speak loud, for she isvery hard of hearing.''Oh yes, certainly I will!' said the host. and, pouring out a largeglass of mead, he took it out to the dead grandmother, who was sittingupright in the cart.'Here is a glass of mead from your son,' said the host. But the deadwoman did not answer a word, and sat still. 'Don't you hear?' cried thehost as loud as he could. 'Here is a glass of mead from your son!'Then he shouted the same thing again, and yet again, but she never movedin her place. and at last he grew angry, threw the glass in her face, sothat she fell back into the cart, for she was not tied in her place.'Hullo!' cried Little Klaus, running out of the door, and seizing thehost by the throat. 'You have killed my grandmother! Look! there is agreat hole in her forehead!''Oh, what a misfortune!' cried the host, wringing his hands. 'It allcomes from my hot temper! Dear Little Klaus! I will give you a bushel ofmoney, and will bury your grandmother as if she were my own. only don'ttell about it, or I shall have my head cut off, and that would be veryuncomfortable.'So Little Klaus got a bushel of money, and the host buried hisgrandmother as if she had been his own.Now when Little Klaus again reached home with so much money he sent hisboy to Big Klaus to borrow his bushel measure.'What's this?' said Big Klaus. 'Didn't I kill him? I must see to thismyself!'So he went himself to Little Klaus with the measure.'Well, now, where did you get all this money?' asked he, opening hiseyes at the heap.'You killed my grandmother not me,' said Little Klaus. 'I sold her, andgot a bushel of money for her.''That is indeed a good price!' said Big Klaus. and, hurrying home, hetook an axe and killed his grandmother, laid her in the cart, and droveoff to the apothecary's, and asked whether he wanted to buy a dead body.'Who is it, and how did you get it?' asked the apothecary.'It is my grandmother,' said Big Klaus. 'I killed her in order to get abushel of money.''You are mad!' said the apothecary. 'Don't mention such things, or youwill lose your head!' And he began to tell him what a dreadful thinghe had done, and what a wicked man he was, and that he ought to bepunished. till Big Klaus was so frightened that he jumped into the cartand drove home as hard as he could. The apothecary and all the peoplethought he must be mad, so they let him go.'You shall pay for this!' said Big Klaus as he drove home. 'You shallpay for this dearly, Little Klaus!'So as soon as he got home he took the largest sack he could find, andwent to Little Klaus and said: 'You have fooled me again! First I killedmy horses, then my grandmother! It is all your fault. but you sha'n't doit again!' And he seized Little Klaus, pushed him in the sack, threw itover his shoulder, crying out 'Now I am going to drown you!'He had to go a long way before he came to the river, and Little Klauswas not very light. The road passed by the church. the organ wassounding, and the people were singing most beautifully.Big Klaus put down the sack with Little Klaus in it by the church door,and thought that he might as well go in and hear a psalm before going onfarther. Little Klaus could not get out, and everybody was in church. sohe went in.'Oh, dear! oh, dear!' groaned Little Klaus in the sack, twisting andturning himself. But he could not undo the string.There came by an old, old shepherd, with snow white hair and a longstaff in his hand. He was driving a herd of cows and oxen. These pushedagainst the sack so that it was overturned.'Alas!' moaned Little Klans, 'I am so young and yet I must die!''And I, poor man,' said the cattle driver, 'I am so old and yet I cannotdie!''Open the sack,' called out Little Klaus. 'creep in here instead of me,and you will die in a moment!''I will gladly do that,' said the cattle driver. and he opened the sack,and Little Klaus struggled out at once.'You will take care of the cattle, won't you?' asked the old man,creeping into the sack, which Little Klaus fastened up and then went onwith the cows and oxen. Soon after Big Klaus came out of the church, andtaking up the sack on his shoulders it seemed to him as if it had becomelighter. for the old cattle driver was not half as heavy as LittleKlaus.'How easy he is to carry now! That must be because I heard part of theservice.'So he went to the river, which was deep and broad, threw in the sackwith the old driver, and called after it, for he thought Little Klauswas inside:'Down you go! You won't mock me any more now!'Then he went home. but when he came to the cross roads, there he metLittle Klaus, who was driving his cattle.'What's this?' said Big Klaus. 'Haven't I drowned you?''Yes,' replied Little Klaus. 'you threw me into the river a goodhalf hour ago!''But how did you get those splendid cattle?' asked Big Klaus.'They are sea cattle!' said Little Klaus. 'I will tell you the wholestory, and I thank you for having drowned me, because now I am on dryland and really rich! How frightened I was when I was in the sack! Howthe wind whistled in my ears as you threw me from the bridge into thecold water! I sank at once to the bottom. but I did not hurt myself forunderneath was growing the most beautiful soft grass. I fell on this,and immediately the sack opened. the loveliest maiden in snow whitegarments, with a green garland round her wet hair, took me by the hand,and said! ''Are you Little Klaus? Here are some cattle for you to beginwith, and a mile farther down the road there is another herd, whichI will give you as a present!'' Now I saw that the river was a greathigh road for the sea people. Along it they travel underneath fromthe sea to the land till the river ends. It was so beautiful, full offlowers and fresh grass. the fishes which were swimming in the watershot past my ears as the birds do here in the air. What lovely peoplethere were, and what fine cattle were grazing in the ditches and dykes!''But why did you come up to us again?' asked Big Klaus. 'I should nothave done so, if it is so beautiful down below!''Oh!' said Little Klaus, 'that was just so politic of me. You heardwhat I told you, that the sea maiden said to me a mile farther along theroad and by the road she meant the river, for she can go by no otherway there was another herd of cattle waiting for me. But I know whatwindings the river makes, now here, now there, so that it is a long wayround. Therefore it makes it much shorter if one comes on the land anddrives across the field to the river. Thus I have spared myself quitehalf a mile, and have come much quicker to my sea cattle!''Oh, you're a lucky fellow!' said Big Klaus. 'Do you think I should alsoget some cattle if I went to the bottom of the river?''Oh, yes! I think so,' said Little Klaus. 'But I can't carry you in asack to the river. you are too heavy for me! If you like to go thereyourself and then creep into the sack, I will throw you in with thegreatest of pleasure.''Thank you,' said Big Klaus. 'but if I don't get any sea cattle when Icome there, you will have a good hiding, mind!''Oh, no! Don't be so hard on me!' Then they went to the river. Whenthe cattle, which were thirsty, caught sight of the water, they ran asquickly as they could to drink.'Look how they are running!' said Little Klaus. 'They want to go to thebottom again!''Yes. but help me first,' said Big Klaus, 'or else you shall have abeating!'And so he crept into the large sack, which was lying on the back ofone of the oxen. 'Put a stone in, for I am afraid I may not reach thebottom,' said Big Klaus.'It goes all right!' said Little Klaus. but still he laid a big stone inthe sack, fastened it up tight, and then pushed it in. Plump! there wasBig Klaus in the water, and he sank like lead to the bottom.'I doubt if he will find any cattle!' said Little Klaus as he drove hisown home.