Once upon a time there was a poor old couple working in the field, and they had their little child with them. He was lying in a hammock made of diapers hung on four sticks. One day a wildcat came out of the woods, took the child, and carried him away to her cave. She did not harm him, but rather brought him herbs, roots, and strawberries, so that he had what he needed.Thus the boy grew up in the cave, and when he came of age, the cat said to him, "You shall marry the king's daughter.""But I am naked," said the youth. "How can I go before the king!""Don't worry, I'll get you some clothes."Then the cat ran into the woods. She had a little silver whistle. She blew into it once, then hissed, and rustled. At once many birds and wild animals approached. From every bird she took one feather and made from them a robe, which she took to the youth.Then she led the youth to the animals, saying, "I'm going now to the king. These animals must follow after you. Upon your arrival you are to say, 'Your majesty, the Feather King sends you this gift.'"Thus the youth went to the castle and said what the cat had told him to say.When the king saw the many animals, he rejoiced, and said, "This must be a wealthy king!"The following day the cat sent the youth back with many more animals, instructing him to say, "This is another gift from the Feather King!"The cat instructed him further: "And when the king is amazed, and says that he would like his daughter to marry such a wealthy king, you are to reply, 'Yes, the Feather King will gladly marry your daughter. In three days he shall come for the wedding ceremony.'"And that is what happened when the youth returned to the castle. The king was pleased with the new gifts, was very amazed, and said how much he would like his daughter to marry such a wealthy king. The youth replied, as the cat had instructed him, that the Feather King would come in three days to be married.When the time was up, the cat ran back into the forest and blew three times on the silver whistle, then hissed and rustled three times the way cats do. Then all the birds and wild animals came together, and the cat chose the finest and most colorful feathers, and made a cloak from them. It glittered and sparkled like the starry sky. She gave it to the youth.This time the cat went with the youth to the king. When they were not far from the castle, she said to the youth, "Now throw away your old feather robe. I will bring you beautiful clothes from the castle. You are to use the new feather robe only for decoration."With that the cat ran into the castle, and cried out, "Hurry! Bring me some royal clothing at once! The Feather King has fallen into a swamp and needs fresh clothes!"Then the king brought forth his best clothes, and the cat ran with them to the youth and dressed him. Thus he approached the castle, with all the animals following after him. Upon entering the castle, he put on the new feather robe, which glittered, and sparkled beyond belief. The king and the princess were overjoyed with the wealthy bridegroom.After the wedding ceremony the king said, "I would like to see your country and your palace. I will go with you."When the Feather King was seated with his young wife in the carriage, he kept looking at his own beautiful clothes and not at his wife.The cat noticed this, jumped onto his neck and scratched him once. "Look at your wife!" she whispered. "However, if you forget yourself, and you are asked why you are always looking at your beautiful clothes, just say that at home you have much more beautiful ones."With that the cat ran on ahead. Soon the Feather King was looking at his beautiful clothes again.His young wife asked him, "Why are you doing that?"He answered, "Because at home I have much more beautiful ones."Soon the cat came to a large flock of sheep. She ran to the shepherd and jumped onto his neck. Crack! She scratched him once and brought blood."If anyone asks you to whom this flock belongs, you must answer, 'To the Feather King.' Otherwise I'll come back and scratch you all to pieces."When the king and the young couple arrived, the king asked the shepherd, "Who owns this wonderful flock of sheep?"The shepherd said, "They belong to the Feather King," for he did not want to be scratched again."Yes, they are mine," said the youth at once, for he saw what the cat had done.Soon afterwards they came to a large buffalo herd. The cat had already been there. Here too, she had scratched the herdsman, telling him that if he did not say that the herd belonged to the Feather King, she would scratch him to pieces."When the king asked who owned this fine herd, the herdsman answered, "It belongs to the Feather King," for he did not want to be scratched again."Yes, it is mine!" said the youth in the carriage.The king was amazed and said, "I would never have believed that you are so wealthy!"They also came to a herd of horses. The cat had been there as well, had scratched the herdsman, telling him when asked who owned the horses he was to say, "The Feather King, of course." Otherwise the cat would scratch him again."Yes, they are mine as well!" said the youth in the carriage."You must be even more wealthy than I am," said the king. "And at home everything must be even more beautiful than at my castle."They soon arrived at the sorcerer's palace. Everything was made of gold and silver, crystal and precious stones, and displayed ever so beautifully. The table was set. They seated themselves at once and began to eat. The cat, however, stood at the doorway and kept watch.The sorcerer suddenly appeared, storming and shouting, "There are robbers in my palace! And seated at my table! Aha! Woe unto you!The cat was standing in the doorway and would not let him enter. She said, "Are you truly the great sorcerer that everyone says you are? They say that you can transform yourself into animals both large and small.""There's nothing to that!" said the sorcerer, then at once transformed himself into a lion.The frightened cat jumped onto the roof."That was a good trick!" shouted the cat. "But now I'd like to see if you can transform yourself into a small animal   into a mouse. There's no way that you can do that.The sorcerer immediately transformed himself into a mouse, and the cat instantly jumped down from the roof and ripped him to pieces.She then called the youth out of the hall and said to him, "You no longer need my help. The castle and everything inside it and surrounding it are yours, including the great herds that you have seen. It's all really yours now, for I have killed the sorcerer to whom everything belonged. Now I demand one service from you: Take your sword and cut off my head."The youth refused to do this, saying, "How could I be so thankless!""If you don't do it immediately, I'll scratch out your eyes!"So he took his sword, and with one blow the cat's head flew off. But behold, in that instant a beautiful woman stood before him.The youth took her by the arm and led her in to the table, then said, "This is my mother!"The old king liked the woman very much, and because his first wife had died he took her by the hand and said, "Should we not get married?"She was not opposed to this, and the celebration lasted eight days. Then the old king returned home with his new wife. The youth remained in the magic castle with the princess and was richer than seven kings.