There was once a man who had six sons and two daughters, and he diedleaving his wife pregnant of a ninth child.And when the child was born it proved to be a monkey.The villagers and relations advised the mother to make away with it,but she refused, saying, "Chando (the supreme god of the Santals) knowswhy he has given me such a child, but as he has done so, I will rear it."All her relations said that if she chose to rear a monkey they wouldturn her out of the family. However, she persisted that she would do so atall costs. So they sent her to live with her child in a hut outside thevillage, and the monkey boy grew up and learned to talk like a humanbeing.One day his elder brothers began to clear the jungle for cultivation,and the monkey boy took a hatchet and went with them. He asked where hecould clear land for himself, and in fun they showed him the place wherethe jungle was thickest. So he went there and drove his hatchet into thetrunk of a tree and then returned and watched his brothers working hardclearing the scrub, and when they had finished their work, he went andfetched his hatchet and returned home with them.Every day he did the same. And one day his brothers asked why he spentall his time with them, but he said that he only came to them when he wastired of cutting down trees. They laughed at this and said that they wouldlike to see his clearing, so he took them to the place, and to theirastonishment they saw a large clearing, bigger than they had been able tomake for themselves. Then the brothers burnt the jungle they had cut downand began to plow the land.But the monkey boy's mother had no plow or cattle nor any seed rice.The only thing in the house was a pumpkin, so he took the seed out of thepumpkin and sowed it in his clearing. His brothers asked what he had sown,and he told them, "Rice."The brothers plowed and sowed and used to go daily to watch the growingcrop, and one day they went to have a look at the monkey boy's crop, andthey saw that it was pumpkins and not rice, and they laughed at him. Whentheir crop was ripe the brothers prepared to offer the first fruits, andthe monkey boy watched them that he might observe the same ceremonies asthey. One day they brought home the first fruits and offered them to thebongas , and they invited the monkey boy and his mother to come tothe feast which followed the offering.They both went and enjoyed themselves. and two or three days later themonkey boy said that he would also have a feast of first fruits, so hetold his mother to clear the courtyard, and invited his brothers, and hepurified himself and went to his clearing and brought home the biggestpumpkin that had grown there. This he offered to the spirits. He slicedoff the top of it as if it were the head of a fowl, and as he did so hesaw that the inside was full of rice. He called his mother, and theyfilled a winnowing fan with the rice, and there was enough besides tonearly fill a basket.They were delighted at this windfall but kept the matter secret lestthey should be robbed. The monkey boy told his mother to be sure and cookenough rice so that his brothers and their wives might have as much asever they could eat, and not merely a small helping such as they had givenhim, and if necessary he would go and fetch another pumpkin. So his motherboiled the rice.When the time fixed for the feast came, nothing was to be seen of thebrothers because they did not expect that there would really be anythingfor them to eat. So the monkey boy went and fetched them, and when theycame to the feast they were astonished to have as much rice as they couldeat. When the crop was quite ripe the monkey boy gathered all the pumpkinsand got sufficient rice from them to last for the whole year.After this the brothers went out to buy horses, and the monkey boy wentwith them, and as he had no money he took nothing but a coil of rope. Hisbrothers were ashamed to have him with them and drove him away, so he wenton ahead and got first to the place where the horse dealer lived. Thebrothers arrived late in the evening and decided to make their purchasesthe following morning and ride their horses home, so they camped for thenight. The monkey boy spent the night hiding on the rafters of the stable.And in the night the horses began to talk to each other and discussedwhich could gallop farthest, and one mare said, "I can gallop twelvekos on the ground and then twelve kos in the air." (Onekos equals about two miles.)When the monkey boy heard this he got down and lamed the mare byrunning a splinter into her hoof. The next morning the brothers bought thehorses which pleased them and rode off. Then the monkey boy went to thehorse dealer and asked why the mare was lame and advised him to applyremedies. But the dealer said that that was useless. when horses got illthey always died. Then the monkey boy asked if he would sell the mare andoffered to give the coil of rope in exchange. The dealer, thinking thatthe animal was useless, agreed. So the monkey boy led it away, but when hewas out of sight he took out the splinter, and the lameness at onceceased. Then he mounted the mare and rode after his brothers, and when hehad nearly overtaken them he rose into the air and flew past his brothersand arrived first at home. There he tied up the mare outside his house andwent and bathed and had his dinner and waited for his brothers.They did not arrive for a full hour afterwards, and when they saw themonkey boy and his mount they wanted to know how he had got home first. Heboasted of how swift his mare was, and so they arranged to have a race andmatch their horses against his. The race took place two or three dayslater, and the monkey boy's mare easily beat all the other horses. Shegalloped twelve kos on the ground and twelve kos in the air.Then they wanted to change their horses for his, but he said they had hadfirst choice and he was not going to change.In two or three years the monkey boy became rich, and then he announcedthat he wanted to marry. This puzzled his mother for she thought that nohuman girl would marry him while a monkey would not be able to talk. Soshe told him that he must find a bride for himself. One day he set off tolook for a wife and came to a tank in which some girls were bathing, andhe took up the cloth belonging to one of them and ran up a tree with it,and when the girl missed it and saw it hanging down from the tree, sheborrowed a cloth from her friends and went and asked the monkey boy forher own. He told her that she could only have it back if she consented tomarry him. She was surprised to find that he could talk, and as heconversed she was bewitched by him and let him pull her up into the treeby her hair, and she called out to her friends to go home and leave herwhere she was. Then he took her on his back and ran off home with her.The girl's father and relations turned out with bows and arrows to lookfor the monkey who had carried her off, but he had gone so far away thatthey never found him. When the monkey boy appeared with his bride all thevillagers were astonished that he had found anyone to marry him, buteverything was made ready for the marriage as quickly as possible, and allthe relations were invited, and the wedding took place, and the monkey boyand his wife lived happily ever after.