Once upon a time, there lived a raja's son and a kotwal's (local leader's) son who were great friends. They stayed together, and sat together, and, in truth, were quite devoted to one another.One day, the kotwal's son said to the prince, "Come, Brother Prince, let us go and visit our fathers in law."The other replied, "Most willingly."Then the kotwal's son said again, ''Let us both go to the house of each of our fathers in law, and introduce one another.""Very well," replied the prince."Let us start at once, then," said the kotwal's son, "and, first, let us go to my father in law's.""Certainly, there's no harm in that," answered the prince. Forthwith they took leave of their parents, and started to pay their visits. As agreed, they went first to the house of the father in law of the kotwal's son. When they arrived there, the kotwal's son went straight into the house, while the prince stood waiting outside. His father in law was overjoyed at seeing the kotwal's son, and welcomed him most heartily.Then the young man said to the people of the house, "Outside there I have a servant. let some little attention be paid to him."The prince was near enough to hear what he said. Thereupon he said, "I'm rightly served for my folly in doing as I have done. However, I'll wait and see what more is fated to befall me."Some time after, it happened that there was no grass for the kotwal's son's horse. When this was told him, the kotwal's son said: "Put a sickle into the hands of that man of mine there, and let him cut some grass and fetch it to the horse."The people of the house did as he said. a sickle was put into the prince's hands, and he was bidden go and cut grass. The prince took the sickle, thinking, "What am I to do now?"But he could not help himself, so he set off to cut the grass. He had not been long at work before he cut his finger so badly that it streamed with blood. The prince began to weep bitterly.Just at this moment, Bhagavati and Siva happened to pass along that road. Bhagavati said, "Thakur, let us see who that is that's weeping there."Mahadeva answered, "This is always the way with you. You can't walk along a road without asking questions without end. Who is weeping? Why is he weeping? and so forth   all such things have continually to be explained to you. Come on, never mind that just now.""No, no," said Bhagavati, "you must tell me."What could Mahadeva do? There was nothing for it but to tell her the whole story. Then she said, "Let us go to the prince.""Very well," answered Mahadeva, "come along."With these words, they both walked up to the prince, and Bhagavati asked him, "Who are you?"The prince at once told her all about himself.Thcn the goddess said, "Don't be afraid. Touch with your hand the finger that has been cut and say:'Tis Siv and Durga's order. QuickAnd firmly, both together stick.The prince did so, and, forthwith, his finger was completely healed. He then sang praises to the god and goddess, while they, after granting him the boon, departed on their way. Having finished cutting, the prince lifted up the bundle of grass upon his head and returned to the house.Many days passed, and still the toils and sufferings of the prince were as great and painful as ever.Accordingly, he said to himself one day, "I'll teach these people a lesson."The night following, when the kotwal's son and his wife went to their own room, he took his stand in a secret place so as to be able to watch them. The kotwal's son took up his hookah, and was just beginning to smoke. At that very moment, the prince said:'Tis Siv and Durga's order. QuickAnd firmly, both together stick.Immediately, the kotwal's son's mouth became inseparably joined to the mouthpiece of the hookah. Then his wife went to take the hookah from him, but, just as her fingers clasped the wooden stem, the prince again repeated the spell:'Tis Siv and Durga's order. QuickAnd firmly, both together stick.In an instant, her fingers and the hookah stem were securely fastened together. She now called for help to the whole household, and everybody came running to the room. They all began to make great efforts to pull the hookah away. But, as soon as anybody touched it, the prince recited the charm, and hands and hookah were at once glued together. They were all now in a terrible fix. They didn't know what to do.At length the master of the house said, "Let somebody go and tell the family priest what has happened."But almost everyone but the prince was fastened to the hookah. so he had to be sent with the message. He was not long in reaching the priest, and told him that the master of the house wished him to come as quick as ever he could. The priest started up in a great hurry.His wife said, "I will come too.""How in the world can you come at this time of night?" he answered.But she said, "I'm sure that some merriment must be going on at the master's house. That's why you have been sent for. so I'll not stay here alone, let me tell you."In this way, his wife kept urging the priest for leave to accompany him, until, at length, he said, "Well, come along, then."They dismissed the messenger, and, forthwith, started, themselves. It chanced that, at one place, a little stream flowed across the road. When they came to this stream, the priest's wife said to him, "At this time of night, it's quite impossible for me to cross on foot."Now the prince had waited for them there, and was sitting by the side of the stream. Hearing the woman speak, he said to the priest, "Venerable sir, take up my venerable mother on your shoulders and so carry her over. The water here is very shallow.""That is a very good idea," said the priest's wife to her husband. "I'll get upon your back, and you'll take me across to the other side and set me down there."What could the poor Brahman do? Seeing no help for it, he took his wife upon his back, and waded with her through the stream to the other side. But, while he was doing so, before he had got across, the prince took care to repeat the spell again:'Tis Siv and Durga's order. QuickAnd firmly, both together stick.The Brahman, having reached the bank, told his wife to get down, but she couldn't. As often as he said, "Get down, get down," she answered, "I can't get down. I tell you, I can't get down."Here was another terrible fix. At last the Brahman, with his wife on his back, had to trudge on to his master's house. When he arrived there, the people of the house, seeing the plight he was in, all began to laugh.They asked him, "Venerable sir, why have you our venerable mother on your back?"The Brahman answered angrily, "How should I know? I never saw such a disobedient and unmanageable woman."Then they said, "Venerable mother, come down."She answered, "I can't come down."Hearing this, they said, "You're in the very same plight as ourselves. What was the good of our sending for you? The exorcist we sent for to drive out the devils, turns out to be possessed, himself. Where can we go for help now?"Hereupon they all began to ask, "Where is that servant?"The priest said, "It was he who came to call me."Hearing this, the master of the house ordered him to be brought at once. He soon appeared, and the master said to him, "Tell us what you know about this affair."He answered, "I'm only a servant, what should I know?"But the master continued to urge and entreat him, till, at length, he said, "It is by your own son in law's fault that all this has happened. This is what has come of his making me cut grass for his horse."Then, taking pity upon them, the prince recited this charm:'Tis Siv and Durga's order, yeThat fast were bound, now loosened be.As soon as he had spoken, they were all set free in a moment. And, now that the master of the house knew who the prince was, he showed him all possible respect and attention, and begged him to pardon his having neglected him before. Soon after, the prince returned home to his parents.