Far away over the sea of the West there reigned a king who had twosons. and the name of the one was Oireal, and the name of the other wasIarlaid. When the boys were still children, their father and motherdied, and a great council was held, and a man was chosen from amongthem who would rule the kingdom till the boys were old enough to ruleit themselves.The years passed on, and by and by another council was held, and it wasagreed that the king's sons were now of an age to take the power whichrightly belonged to them. So the youths were bidden to appear beforethe council, and Oireal the elder was smaller and weaker than hisbrother.'I like not to leave the deer on the hill and the fish in the rivers,and sit in judgment on my people,' said Oireal, when he had listened tothe words of the chief of the council. And the chief waxed angry, andanswered quickly:'Not one clod of earth shall ever be yours if this day you do not takeon yourself the vows that were taken by the king your father.'Then spake Iarlaid, the younger, and he said: 'Let one half be yours,and the other give to me. then you will have fewer people to rule over.''Yes, I will do that,' answered Oireal.After this, one half of the men of the land of Lochlann did homage toOireal, and the other half to Iarlaid. And they governed theirkingdoms as they would, and in a few years they became grown men withbeards on their chins. and Iarlaid married the daughter of the king ofGreece, and Oireal the daughter of the king of Orkney. The next yearsons were born to Oireal and Iarlaid. and the son of Oireal was big andstrong, but the son of Iarlaid was little and weak, and each had sixfoster brothers who went everywhere with the princes.One day Manus, son of Oireal, and his cousin, the son of Iarlaid,called to their foster brothers, and bade them come and play a game atshinny in the great field near the school where they were taught allthat princes and nobles should know. Long they played, and swiftly didthe ball pass from one to another, when Manus drove the ball at hiscousin, the son of Iarlaid. The boy, who was not used to be roughlyhandled, even in jest, cried out that he was sorely hurt, and went homewith his foster brothers and told his tale to his mother. The wife ofIarlaid grew white and angry as she listened, and thrusting her sonaside, sought the council hall where Iarlaid was sitting.'Manus has driven a ball at my son, and fain would have slain him,'said she. 'Let an end be put to him and his ill deeds.'But Iarlaid answered:'Nay, I will not slay the son of my brother.''And he shall not slay my son,' said the queen. And calling to herchamberlain she ordered him to lead the prince to the four brownboundaries of the world, and to leave him there with a wise man, whowould care for him, and let no harm befall him. And the wise man setthe boy on the top of a hill where the sun always shone, and he couldsee every man, but no man could see him.Then she summoned Manus to the castle, and for a whole year she kepthim fast, and his own mother could not get speech of him. But in theend, when the wife of Oireal fell sick, Manus fled from the tower whichwas his prison, and stole back to his on home.For a few years he stayed there in peace, and then the wife of Iarlaidhis uncle sent for him.'It is time that you were married,' she said, when she saw that Manushad grown tall and strong like unto Iarlaid. 'Tall and strong you are,and comely of face. I know a bride that will suit you well, and thatis the daughter of the mighty earl of Finghaidh, that does homage forhis lands to me. I myself will go with a great following to his house,and you shall go with me.'Thus it was done. and though the earl's wife was eager to keep herdaughter with her yet a while, she was fain to yield, as the wife ofIarlaid vowed that not a rood of land should the earl have, unless hedid her bidding. But if he would give his daughter to Manus, she wouldbestow on him the third part of her own kingdom, with much treasurebeside. This she did, not from love to Manus, but because she wishedto destroy him. So they were married, and rode back with the wife ofIarlaid to her own palace. And that night, while he was sleeping,there came a wise man, who was his father's friend, and awoke himsaying: 'Danger lies very close to you, Manus, son of Oireal. You holdyourself favoured because you have as a bride the daughter of a mightyearl. but do you know what bride the wife of Iarlaid sought for her ownson? It was no worldly wife she found for him, but the swift Marchwind, and never can you prevail against her.''Is it thus?' answered Manu. And at the first streak of dawn he wentto the chamber where the queen lay in the midst of her maidens.'I have come,' he said, 'for the third part of the kingdom, and for thetreasure which you promised me.' But the wife of Iarlaid laughed asshe heard him.'Not a clod shall you have here,' spake she. 'You must go to the OldBergen for that. Mayhap under its stones and rough mountains you mayfind a treasure!''Then give me your son's six foster brothers as well as my own,'answered he. And the queen gave them to him, and they set out for OldBergen.A year passed by, and found them still in that wild land, hunting thereindeer, and digging pits for the mountain sheep to fall into. For atime Manus and his companions lived merrily, but at length Manus grewweary of the strange country, and they all took ship for the land ofLochlann. The wind was fierce and cold, and long was the voyage. but,one spring day, they sailed into the harbour that lay beneath thecastle of Iarlaid. The queen looked from her window and beheld himmounting the hill, with the twelve foster brothers behind him. Thenshe said to her husband: 'Manus has returned with his twelve fosterbrothers. Would that I could put an end to him and his murdering andhis slaying.''That were a great pity,' answered Iarlaid. 'And it is not I that willdo it.''If you will not do it I will,' said she. And she called the twelvefoster brothers and made them vow fealty to herself. So Manus was leftwith no man, and sorrowful was he when he returned alone to Old Bergen.It was late when his foot touched the shore, and took the path towardsthe forest. On his way there met him a man in a red tunic.'Is it you, Manus, come back again?' asked he.'It is I,' answered Manus. 'alone have I returned from the land ofLochlann.'The man eyed him silently for a moment, and then he said:'I dreamed that you were girt with a sword and became king ofLochlann.' But Manus answered:'I have no sword and my bow is broken.''I will give you a new sword if you will make me a promise,' said theman once more.'To be sure I will make it, if ever I am king,' answered Manus. 'Butspeak, and tell me what promise I am to make.''I was your grandfather's armourer,' replied the man, 'and I wish to beyour armourer also.''That I will promise readily,' said Manus. and followed the man intohis house, which was at a little distance. But the house was not likeother houses, for the walls of every room were hung so thick with armsthat you could not see the boards.'Choose what you will,' said the man. and Manus unhooked a sword andtried it across his knee, and it broke, and so did the next, and thenext.'Leave off breaking the swords,' cried the man, 'and look at this oldsword and helmet and tunic that I wore in the wars of your grandfather.Perhaps you may find them of stouter steel.' And Manus bent the swordthrice across his knee but he could not break it. So he girded it tohis side, and put on the old helmet. As he fastened the strap his eyefell on a cloth flapping outside the window.'What cloth is that?' asked he.'It is a cloth that was woven by the Little People of the forest,' saidthe man. 'and when you are hungry it will give you food and drink, andif you meet a foe, he will not hurt you, but will stoop and kiss theback of your hand in token of submission. Take it, and use it well.'Manus gladly wrapped the shawl round his arm, and was leaving thehouse, when he heard the rattling of a chain blown by the wind.'What chain is that?' asked he.'The creature who has that chain round his neck, need not fear ahundred enemies,' answered the armourer. And Manus wound it round himand passed on into the forest.Suddenly there sprang out from the bushes two lions, and a lion cubwith them. The fierce beasts bounded towards him, roaring loudly, andwould fain have eaten him, but quickly Manus stooped and spread thecloth upon the ground. At that the lions stopped, and bowing theirgreat heads, kissed the back of his wrist and went their ways. But thecub rolled itself up in the cloth. so Manus picked them both up, andcarried them with him to Old Bergen.Another year went by, and then he took the lion cub and set forth tothe land of Lochlann. And the wife of Iarlaid came to meet him, and abrown dog, small but full of courage, came with her. When the dogbeheld the lion cub he rushed towards him, thinking to eat him. but thecub caught the dog by the neck, and shook him, and he was dead. Andthe wife of Iarlaid mourned him sore, and her wrath was kindled, andmany times she tried to slay Manus and his cub, but she could not. Andat last they two went back to Old Bergen, and the twelve fosterbrothers went also.'Let them go,' said the wife of Iarlaid, when she heard of it. 'Mybrother the Red Gruagach will take the head off Manus as well in OldBergen as elsewhere.'Now these words were carried by a messenger to the wife of Oireal, andshe made haste and sent a ship to Old Bergen to bear away her sonbefore the Red Gruagach should take the head off him. And in the shipwas a pilot. But the wife of Iarlaid made a thick fog to cover theface of the sea, and the rowers could not row, lest they should drivethe ship on to a rock. And when night came, the lion cub, whose eyeswere bright and keen, stole up to Manus, and Manus got on his back, andthe lion cub sprang ashore and bade Manus rest on the rock and wait forhim. So Manus slept, and by and by a voice sounded in his ears,saying: 'Arise!' And he saw a ship in the water beneath him, and in theship sat the lion cup in the shape of the pilot.Then they sailed away through the fog, and none saw them. and theyreached the land of Lochlann, and the lion cub with the chain round hisneck sprang from the ship and Manus followed after. And the lion cubkilled all the men that guarded the castle, and Iarlaid and his wifealso, so that, in the end, Manus son of Oireal was crowned king ofLochlann.