There lived a king and queen in their realm, and a carl and his old wifein their cottage.Once the carl and his old wife bought for themselves a barrel full ofbutter, which they intended to have for their household use during thewinter, but now they were at a loss where to hide the barrel, that nobodyshould steal out of it. At last they agreed upon having it kept at theking's palace. They readily got the king to undertake the guarding oftheir tub, but its owner put it into its right place, and covered it asthey thought fit.Now the autumn approached, and the old wife began to feel eager for someof the butter, and contrived at once a plan for getting her longingsatisfied. One day, in fine weather, she was up early in the morning, andcame in to her carl, saying she was called to the king's palace, to hold achild at baptism, wherefore she must go there. The carl said it was amatter of course. Now the old wife got ready in the greatest hurry andwent to the king's palace. When she came there she said she should fetch atiny slice of butter from the barrel. This everyone believed to be true,and she was let in to where the tub stood. Then the old woman took a greatpat from the brim of the tub. After that she went home.Then asked the carl what had been the name of the child at the king's.The old woman answered, " Brimmy is hight (named) the well shaped girl."When the old woman had finished what she had first taken of the butter,she said one morning to her husband, "Eh! I am called yet once again tothe king's.""Well, go then," said the carl.The old woman went away, and said at the king's as formerly, that sheshould fetch butter from the barrel. And this time, the old dame tookbutter away down to the middle of the tub.When she came home, the carl asked what was the name of the child.She answered, "Middle, is called the little girl."When the old wife had finished this provision of butter, she said to theold man : " Yet, once more, am I called to the king's, to hold a child atbaptism.""Go then," quoth the carl.The old wife went, and coming to the king's palace, said she came forbutter. Now she took so much, that she could see the corner which thestaves made with the bottom of the tub.When she came home, the carl asked her what was the name of the child. Sheanswered. "Logg (woodblock) is hight the ugly girl."Now time passed till the old wife was, once more, in need of butter. Thenshe said to the old man, "I am called for, once more, at the king's.""Go then," said the old man. The old woman went, and said, as formerly,that she had come for butter. This time, she took all that was left in thebarrel. When she came home, the carl asked what was the name of the child."Bottom is hight the stubby swain," said the old woman.Time passed, till the later months of winter came on. Then the householdprovisions of the old man and woman began to be rather scarce. The old mansaid to his old wife, that it would be best to fetch the butter tub fromthe king's palace. To this, the old woman agreed. They came there andasked for their barrel. It was given to them, and they saw that thecovering and everything about the barrel was quite in order.They rolled the barrel home, into the cottage. Now the carl opened thebarrel, and lo! it was quite empty. He was rather startled at this, andasked his wife if she could tell the cause of it. She made believe to beno less astonished, and could find no reason for the trick they had beenplayed.But, at the same moment, the old wife saw a big fly, which had got intothe open barrel, and she said, "Ah! There comes the wretched thief. Lookhere. This hateful fly has, doubtless, eaten all our butter from the tub."This, the old man thought must be true, and ran off for the big hammer,with which he used to beat his dried fish, and would break the skull ofthe fly. He shut the door of the cottage, that the fly should not get out,and now chased the fly all over the place, knocking and beating at it, butnever hitting save his own furniture and household chattels, which hebroke to pieces. At last, the old man, being tired, sat down in fury anddespair.But then the fly came and sat on his nose. Then the carl begged his wifeto kill the fly, and said, "Make haste, while it sits on the nose!" (whichsince has passed into a common saying). The old woman lifted up, with allher might, the hammer, and thumped it on the old man's nose, and broke hisskull so well that he was dead on the spot. but the fly escaped withunbroken skull. It is unscathed yet. But the old woman is still wailingover her carl.