On the coast of Suruga, at Miwo, there once lived a fisherman by thename of Hakurioo. One day when he was resting fromhis work on the bank in the sunshine he saw a brightly glistening whiterobe lying before him, delicate and translucent and entirelywoven from feathers. At the place where the shoulders would fit on thewonderful robe there hung two wings.He eagerly picked it up, wanting to take it home and carefully put itaway, when a beautiful girl appeared before him. Shesobbed aloud and demanded the return of her robe.Hakurioo was at first not at all willing to give up his find. But thenthe girl said, amidst endless sobs and tears, that she was aheavenly goddess, and that she would have to remain miserably on earth aslong as she did not have her feathery robe, that shehad taken off while bathing, and which had thus wrongly come into hishands.Moved by compassion, the fisherman said, "Very well, I will give yourrobe back to you, if in return you will dance theheavenly dance for me with which you daughters of heaven soar through theclouds."The maiden replied, "Yes, give me my robe, and you shall behold themost beautiful dance that I am able to dance."The fisherman considered for a moment and said, "No, dance first, andthen I will give you your robe."With this the heavenly maiden grew angry and said, "Shame on you, thatyou doubt the words of a goddess! Quickly, giveme my robe, for without it I am not able to dance. You will not regret it.That I promise you!"Thereupon Hakurioo handed her the feathery robe. She immediately put iton and rose into the air. True to her words,before the fisherman's amazed eyes she performed the most magnificentdance that one can imagine, at the same time singing themost beautiful, sensuous melodies, until Hakurioo did not know what washappening to him. In more and more beautiful loopsshe rose higher and higher, but it was a long time before she disappearedfrom the enchanted fisherman's view, soaring into alight cloud that was drifting toward Fujiyama's summit, with the lastsounds of her godly song sounding in his ears.