In a village there lived two brothers who led very wanton lives. After they had squandered all their money and property the devil came to them. He told them that he would give them a great pile of money that they could never use up. At the end of a year he would return, and they should give him a task. If he were able to fulfill this task, then they would forfeit their bodies and souls to him. If he failed to do so for even one of them, then he would give them a second pile of money equal to what he had already given them.The brothers entered into this pact.The younger brother purchased many horses, and from the entire countryside he hauled together a whole mountain of stones. To the contrary, the older brother did not give up his wild living.At the end of a year the Evil One returned. The younger brother commanded him to blow apart the pile of stones with just three puffs. With only his second puff the devil blew all the sand in the pile into the sky, and with his third puff half the mountain and disappeared. Having done this he took hold of the man, and then flew with him to the older brother.This brother was sitting in a tavern, and came outside only after much cajoling.When the devil asked him for his task, this brother broke wind and said, "Catch that for me, and tie a square knot into it!"That was too much for the devil. He had to release the younger brother and give them a great pile of money as well.One might think that the requirement to tie a square knot was superfluous   that in any event the devil would have been unable to fulfill such a task. But that is not true, as a simple peasant learned to his sorrow. He gave the same task to the Evil One, but without the square knot, and what happened?A day passed, then a month, and then another month, and the devil did not return. The peasant felt quite safe, but at the end of an entire year the Evil One came running up, out of breath. He pulled out a feather, and behold: He had captured all the man's wind, to the last puff, and put it into the quill. And, of course, with that he had won the peasant's soul.Another man from the same village had better luck. He commanded the devil to to collect and bring to him all the iron that had worn away from his plow as it had worked his fields. Knowing that he would not be able to do this, the devil threw the contract at the peasant's feet, and flew away.The devil is also unable to spin a mountain of sand into a rope. Many individuals have escaped from him by giving him this task.