Once upon a time there was a hen that had flown up and perched on anoak tree for the night. When the night came, she dreamed that unless shegot to Dovrefjell, the world would come to an end. So that very minute shejumped down, and set out on her way. When she had walked a bit she met acock."Good day, Cocky Locky," said the hen."Good day, Henny Penny," said the cock. "Where are you going soearly?""Oh, I'm going to Dovrefjell, that the world won't come to an end,"said the hen."Who told you that, Henny Penny?" asked the cock."I sat in the oak and dreamed it last night," said the hen."I'll go with you," said the cock.Well, they walked on a good bit, and then they met a duck."Good day, Ducky Lucky," said the cock."Good day, Cocky Locky" said the duck. "Where are you going soearly?""Oh, I'm going to Dovrefjell, that the world won't come to an end,"said the cock."Who told you that, Cocky Locky?""Henny Penny," said the cock."Who told you that, Henny Penny?" asked the duck."I sat in the oak and dreamed it last night," said the hen."I'll go with you," said the duck.So they went off together, and after a bit they met a goose."Good day, Goosey Poosey," said the duck."Good day, Ducky Lucky," said the goose. "Where are you going soearly?""I'm going to Dovrefjell, that the world won't come to an end," saidthe duck."Who told you that, Ducky Lucky?" asked the goose."Cocky Locky.""Who told you that, Cocky Locky?""Henny Penny.""How do you know that, Henny Penny?" said the goose."I sat in the oak and dreamed it last night, Goosey Poosey," said thehen."I'll go with you," said the goose.Now when they had all walked along for a bit, a fox met them."Good day, Foxy Cocksy," said the goose."God day, Goosey Poosey.""Where are you going, Foxy Cocksy?""Where are you going yourself, Goosey Poosey?""I'm going to Dovrefjell, that the world won't come to an end," saidthe goose."Who told you that, Goosey Poosey?" asked the fox."Ducky Lucky.""Who told you that, Ducky Lucky?""Cocky Locky.""Who told you that, Cocky Locky?""Henny Penny.""How do you know that, Henny Penny?""I sat in the oak and dreamed last night, that if we don't get toDovrefjell, the world will come to an end," said the hen."Stuff and nonsense," said the fox. "The world won't come to an end ifyou don't go there. No, come home with me to my den. That's far better,for it's warm and jolly there."Well, they went home with the fox to his den, and when they got inside,the fox laid on lots of fuel, so that they all got very sleepy. The duckand the goose, they settled themselves down in a corner, but the cock andhen flew up on a post. So when the goose and duck were well asleep, thefox took the goose and laid him on the embers, and roasted him. The hensmelled the strong roast meat, and sprang up to a higher peg, and said,half asleep, "Phooey, what a nasty smell! What a nasty smell!""Oh, stuff!" said the fox. "It's only the smoke driven down thechimney. Go to sleep again, and hold your tongue." So the hen went off tosleep again.Now the fox had hardly got the goose well down his throat, before hedid the very same with the duck. He took and laid him on the embers, androasted him for a dainty bit.Then the hen woke up again, and sprang up to a higher peg still."Phooey, what a nasty smell! What a nasty smell!" she said again, and whenshe got her eyes open, and came to see how the fox and eaten two of them,both the goose and the duck. So she flew up to the highest peg of all, andperched there, and peeped up through the chimney."Nay, nay, just see what a lovely lot of geese are flying over there,"she said to the fox.Out ran Reynard to fetch a fat roast. But while he was gone, the henwoke up the cock and told him how it had gone with Goosey Poosey andDucky Lucky. And so Cocky Locky and Henny Penny flew out through thechimney, and if they hadn't got to Dovrefjell, it surely would have beenall over with the world.