I wrote this story carefully down, word for word, from the telling oftwo men the first, Shawn Cunningham, of Ballinphuil, and the second,Martin Brennan of Ballinlocha, in the barony of Frenchpark. They eachtold the same story, but Martin Brennan repeated the end of it atgreater length than the other. The first half is written down word forword from the mouth of Cunningham, the second half from that of Brennan.AN CHRAOIBHIN AOIBHINN.There was a man in it long ago, and long ago it was, and if he was in itthen he would not be in it now. He was married, and his wife was lost(i.e., died), and he had only one son by the first wife. Then he marriedthe second wife. This second wife had not much regard for the son, andhe was obliged to go out on the mountain, far from the house, to takecare of the cattle.There was a bracket (speckled) bull amongst the cows out on themountain, and of a day that there was great hunger on the lad, thebracket bull heard him complaining and wringing his two hands, and hemoved over to him and said to him, "You are hungry, but take the hornoff me and lay it on the ground. put your hand into the place where thehorn was and you will find food."When he heard that he went over to the bull, took hold of the horn,twisted it, and it came away with him in his hand. He laid it on theground, put in his hand, and drew out food and drink and a table cloth.He spread the table cloth on the ground, set the food and drink on it,and then he ate and drank his enough. When he had his enough eaten anddrunk, he put the table cloth back again, and left the horn back in theplace where it was before.When he came home that evening he did not eat a bit of his supper, andhis stepmother said to herself that he (must have) got something to eatout on the mountain since he was not eating any of his supper.When he went out with his cattle the next day his stepmother sent herown daughter out after him, and told her to be watching him till sheshould see where he was getting the food. The daughter went and putherself in hiding, and she was watching him until the heat of the daycame: but when the middle of the day was come she heard every music moreexcellent than another, and she was put to sleep by that truly melodiousmusic. The bull came then, and the lad twisted the horn off him and drewout the table cloth, the food, and the drink, and ate and drunk hisenough. He put back the horn again then. The music was stopped and thedaughter woke up, and was watching him until the evening came, and hedrove the cows home then. The mother asked her did she see anything inthe field, and she said that she did not. The lad did not eat two bitesof his supper, and there was wonder on the stepmother.The next day when he drove out the cows the stepmother told the seconddaughter to follow him, and to be watching him till she would see wherehe was getting things to eat. The daughter followed him and put herselfin hiding, but when the heat of the day came the music began and shefell asleep. The lad took the horn off the bull, drew out thetable cloth, the food, and drink, ate and drank his enough, and put backthe horn again. The girl woke then, and was watching him until theevening. When the evening came he drove the cows home, and he was notable to eat his supper any more than the two evenings before. Thestepmother asked the daughter did she see anything, and she said she didnot. There was wonder on the stepmother.The next day, when the lad went out herding the cows, the stepmothersent the third daughter out after him, and threatened her not to fallasleep, but to have a good watch. The daughter followed the lad, andwent into hiding. This daughter had three eyes, for she had an eye inthe back of her head. When the bracket bull began playing every musicmore excellent than another, he put the other eyes to sleep, but he wasnot able to put the third eye to sleep. When the heat of the day cameshe saw the bracket bull coming to the boy, and the boy taking the hornoff him and eating.She ran home then, and said to her mother that there wasn't such adinner in the world as was being set before the boy out of the horn ofthe bracket bull.Then the mother let on that she was sick, and she killed a cock, and shelet down its blood into her bed, and she put up a sup of the blood intoher mouth, and she sent for her husband, saying that she was findingdeath (dying). Her husband came in, and he saw the blood, and he said,"Anything that is in the world that would save her that she must getit." She said that there wasn't a thing in the world that would save herbut a piece of the bracket bull that was on the mountain."You must get that," said he.The bracket bull used to be the first one of the cattle that used tocome in every night, and the stepmother sent for two butchers, and sheset them on each side of the gate to kill the bracket bull when he wouldcome.The bracket bull said to the boy, "I'll be swept (done for) to night,unless another cow goes before me." He put another cow out before him,and the two butchers were standing on each side of the gate to kill thefirst one that would come in. The bull sent the cow out before him,going through the gate, and they killed her: and then the stepmother gota piece of her to eat, and she thought that it was the bracket bull thatshe was eating, and she got better then.The next night, when the lad came home with the cattle, he ate no moreof his supper than any other night, and there was wonder on thestepmother. She heard after this that the bracket bull was in it (i.e.,alive) all through, and that he was not killed at that time.When she heard that she killed a cock, and she let down some of itsblood into her bed, and she put a sup of the blood into her mouth, andshe played the same trick over again, and said that there was nothingat all to cure her but a piece of the bracket bull.The butchers were sent for, and they were ready to kill the bracket bullas soon as he came in. The bracket bull sent another one of the cattlein before himself, and the butchers killed it. The woman got part of itsflesh, and she thought it was part of the bracket bull she was eating,and she got better.She found out afterwards that it was not the bracket bull that was dead,and she said, "Never mind. I'll kill the bracket bull yet!"The next day, when the lad was herding the cows on the mountain, thebracket bull came and said to him, "Take the horn off me and eat yourenough now. That's the last time for you. They are waiting to kill meto night, but don't you be afraid. It is not they who shall kill me, butanother bull shall kill me. Get up on my back now."The lad got up on his back then and they went home. The two butcherswere on each side of the gate waiting for him. The bracket bull struck ahorn on each side of him, and he killed the two butchers. Out with himthen, and the lad on his back.He went into a wild wood, and he himself and the lad spent the night inthat wood. He was to fight with the other bull on the next day.When the day came, the bracket bull said, "Take the horn off me and eatyour enough that's the last luck you have. I am to fight with the otherbull immediately, and I shall escape from him to day, but he will haveme dead to morrow by twelve o'clock."Himself and the other bull fought that day, and the bracket bull cameback in the evening, and he himself and the lad passed that night in thewood.When the next day came, the bracket bull said to him, "Twist the hornoff me and eat your enough that's the last luck you'll have. Listen nowto the thing that I'm telling you. When you'll see me dead, go and cut astrip of skin of the back and a strip of the stomach off me, and make abelt of it, and at any time at all there will be any hard pinch on you,you shall have my power."The bracket bull went then to fight with the other bull, and the otherbull killed him. The other bull went away then. The lad came to thebracket bull where he was lying on the ground, and he was not dead,out and out. When he saw the boy coming he said, "Oh," said he, "makehaste as well as you can in the world, and take out your knife and cutthat strip off me, or you will be killed as well as myself."There was a trembling in the poor creature's hand, and he was not ableto cut a piece at all off the bull, after his feeding him for so long,and after the kindness he had got from him.The bracket bull spoke again, and told him to cut the strip off him onthe instant, and that it would assist him as long as he would be alive.He cut a strip off the back then, and another strip off the belly, andhe went away.There was plenty of trouble and of grief on him, going of him, and heought to have that on him too, and he departing without any knowledge ofwhere he was making for, or where he would go.A gentleman met him on the road, and asked him where he was going. Thelad said that he did not himself know where he was going, but that hewas going looking for work."What are you able to do?" says the gentleman."I'm as good a herd as ever you saw, but I'll not tell you a lie I cando nothing but herding. but, indeed, I'll do that as well as any manthat ever you saw.""It's you I want," says the gentleman. "There are three giants up by myland, on the one mearing with me, and anything that will go in on theirland they will keep it, and I cannot take it off them again. That's allthey're asking my cattle to go in across the mearing to them.""Never mind them. I'll go bail that I'll take good heed of them, andthat I'll not let anything in to them."The gentleman brought him home then, and he went herding for him. Whenthe grass was getting scarce, he was driving the cows further out. Therewas a big stone wall between the land of the giants and his master'sland. There was fine grass on the other side of the wall. When he sawthat, he threw down a gap in the wall and let in the pigs and the cows.He went up into a tree then, and was throwing down apples and all sorts(of fruit) to the pigs.A giant came out, and when he saw the lad up on the tree throwing downthe apples to the pigs, the head rose on him (i.e., he got furious). Hecame to the tree. "Get down out of that," says he. "I think you big forone bite and small for two bites. come down till I draw you under mylong cold teeth.""Arrah, take yourself easy," says the boy. "perhaps it's too quick I'dcome down to you.""I won't be talking to you any longer," says the giant. He got aleverage on the tree and drew it up out of the roots."Go down, black thong, and squeeze that fellow," says the lad, for heremembered the advice of the bracket bull. On the instant the blackthong leaped out of his hand, and squeezed the giant so hard that thetwo eyes were going out on his head, for stronger was the power of thebull than the power of the giant. The giant was not able to put a stirout of himself, and he promised anything at all only to save his lifefor him. "Anything at all you want," says he to the lad, "you must getit from me.""I'm not asking anything at all except the loan of the sword that'sunder your bed," says he."I give it to you, and welcome," says the giant. He went in, and broughtout the sword with him."Try it on the three biggest trees that are in the wood, and you won'tfeel it in your hand going through them," says the giant."I don't see any tree in the wood bigger or uglier than yourself," sayshe, drawing the sword and whipping the head off him, so that he sent itseven furrows and seven ridges with that stroke."If I were to get on the body again," said the head, and it talking,"and the men of the world wouldn't get me off the trunk again.""I'll take good care myself of that," says the lad.When he drove the cows home in the evening, they had that much milk thatthey had not half enough of vessels, and two coopers were obliged tomake new vessels to hold the quantity of milk they had."You're the best lad that ever I met," says the gentleman, and he wasthankful to him.The giants used to put each man of them a shout of him every evening.The people only heard two shouts that evening. "There's some change inthe caher to night," said the gentleman, when he heard the twoshouts."Oh," says the lad, "I saw one of them going away by himself to day, andhe did not come home yet."On the next day the lad drove out his cattle until he came to the bigstone wall, and he threw a gap in it, and let the cattle into the sameplace. He went up into a tree and began throwing down the apples. Thesecond giant came running, and said, "What's the meaning of throwing mywall and letting in your cattle on my estate? Get down out of that atonce. You killed my brother yesterday.""Go down, black thong, and bind that one," says the lad. The thongsqueezed him so that he was not able to put a stir out of himself, andhe promised the lad anything at all only to spare his life."I am asking nothing of you but the loan of the old sword that is underyour bed.""I'll give you that, and welcome." He went in, and brought out the swordwith him. Each man of them had a sword, and every sword better thananother."Try that sword on the six biggest trees that are in the wood, and itwill go through them without turning the edge.""I don't see any tree in the wood bigger or uglier than yourself," sayshe, drawing the sword and whipping the head off him, so that he sent itseven furrows and seven ridges from the body."Oh," said the head, "if I were to get going on the body again, and themen of the world wouldn't get me off it again.""Oh, I'll take care of that myself," says the boy.When he drove the cows home that night there was wonder on the peoplewhen they saw the quantity of milk they had. The gentleman said thatthere was another change in the caher that day again, as he did not hearbut only one shout, but the lad said that he saw another one going awaythat day, and that it was likely that he did not come back yet.On the next day he went out, and drove the pigs and the cows up to thehall door, and was throwing down the apples to them. The third giantcame out the eldest man of them and he was full mad after his twobrothers being dead, and the teeth that were in his head were making ahand stick for him. He told the boy to come down. that he did not knowwhat he would do to him after his having killed his two brothers. "Comedown," says he, "till I draw you under my long, cold teeth". and it wason him the long, cold teeth were, and no lie."Go down, black thong, and bind that one till the eyes will be going outon his head with the power of the squeezing that you'll give him."The black thong leaped from him, and it bound the giant until the twoeyes were going out on his head with the squeezing and with thetightening it gave him, and the giant promised to give him anything atall. "but spare my life," says he."I'm only asking the loan of the old sword that's under your bed," saidthe lad."Have it, and welcome," says the giant. He went in, and brought out thesword with him. "Now," says the giant, "strike the two ugliest stumps inthe wood, and the sword will cut them without getting a bent edge.""Musha, then, by Mary," says the boy, "I don't see any stump in the wooduglier than yourself," and he struck him so that he sent his head sevenfurrows and seven ridges from the body."Ochone for ever!" says the head. "If I were to get going on the bodyagain, the men of the world they wouldn't get me off the body again.""I'll take care of that myself," says the boy.When he came home that night the coopers were not able to make enough ofvessels for them to hold the quantity of milk that the cows had, and thepigs were not able to eat with the quantity of apples that they hadeaten before that.He was a while in that way herding the cows and everything that was inthe castle, he had it. There was no one at all going near the castle,for there was fear on them.There was a fiery dragon in that country, and he used to come everyseven years, and unless there would be a young woman ready bound beforehim he would drive the sea through the land, and he would destroy thepeople. The day came when the dragon was to come, and the lad asked hismaster to let him go to the place where the dragon was coming. "What'sthe business you have there?" says the master. "There will be horsemenand coaches and great people there, and the crowds will be gatheredtogether in it out of every place. The horses would rise up on top ofyou, and you would be crushed under their feet. and it's better for youto stop at home.""I'll stop," said the lad. But when he got them all gone he went to thecastle of the three giants, and he put a saddle on the best steed theyhad, and a fine suit on himself, and he took the first giant's sword inhis hand, and he went to where the dragon was.It was like a fair there, with the number of riders and coaches andhorses and people that were gathered in it. There was a young lady boundto a post on the brink of the sea, and she waiting for the dragon tocome to swallow her. It was the King's daughter that was in it, for thedragon would not take any other woman. When the dragon came out of thesea the lad went against him, and they fought with one another, and werefighting till the evening, until the dragon was frothing at the mouth,and till the sea was red with its blood. He turned the dragon out intothe sea at last. He went away then, and said that he would return thenext day. He left the steed again in the place where he found it, and hetook the fine suit off him, and when the other people returned he wasbefore them. When the people came home that night they were all talkingand saying that some champion came to fight with the dragon and turnedhim out into the sea again. That was the story that every person had,but they did not know who was the champion who did it.The next day, when his master and the other people were gone, he went tothe castle of the three giants again, and he took out another steed andanother suit of valour (i.e., armour), and he brought with him thesecond giant's sword, and he went to the place where the dragon was tocome.The King's daughter was bound to a post on the shore, waiting for him,and the eyes going out on her head looking would she see the championcoming who fought the dragon the day before. There were twice as manypeople in it as there were on the first day, and they were all waitingtill they would see the champion coming. When the dragon came the ladwent in face of him, and the dragon was half confused and sickened afterthe fight that he had made the day before. They were beating one anothertill the evening, and then he drove away the dragon. The people tried tokeep him, but they were not able. He went from them.When his master came home that evening the lad was in the house beforehim. The master told him that another champion came that day, and thathe had turned the dragon into the sea. But no doubt the lad knew thestory better himself than he did.On the next day, when the gentleman was gone, he went to the caher ofthe giants, and he took with him another steed and another suit and thesword of the third giant, and when he came to fight with the dragon thepeople thought it was another champion who was in it.He himself and the dragon were beating each other, then, and the sorrasuch a fight you ever saw. There were wings on the dragon, and when hewas getting it tight he rose up in the air, and he was thrusting andbeating the boy in his skull till he was nearly destroyed. He rememberedthe black thong then, and said, "Black thong, bind that one so hard thatthey'll be listening to his screeching in the two divisions of the worldwith the squeezing that you'll give him." The black thong leapt away,and she bound him, and then the lad took the head off him, and the seawas red with his blood, and the waves of blood were going on the top ofthe water.The lad came to the land, then, and they tried to keep him. but he wentfrom them, and as he was riding by the lady snatched the shoe off him.He went away, then, and he left the horse and the sword and the suit ofarmour in the place where he found them, and when the gentleman and theother people came home he was sitting before them at the fire. He askedthem how the fight went, and they told him that the champion killed thefiery dragon, but that he was gone away, and that no one at all knew whohe was.When the King's daughter came home she said that she would never marry aman but the man whom that shoe would fit.There were sons of kings, and great people among them, and they sayingthat it was themselves who killed the dragon. but she said it was notthey, unless the shoe would fit them. Some of them were cutting the toesoff their feet, and some of them taking off a piece of the heel, andmore of them cutting the big toe off themselves, trying would the shoefit them. There was no good for them in it. The King's daughter saidthat she would not marry one man of them.She sent out soldiers, then, and the shoe with them, to try would it fitanyone at all. Every person, poor and rich, no matter where he was from,must try the shoe on him.The lad was stretched out lying on the grass when the soldiers came, andwhen they saw him they said to him, "Show your foot.""Oh, don't be humbugging me," says he."We have orders," said they, "and we cannot return without trying theshoe on everyone, poor and rich, so stretch out your foot." He did that,and the shoe went in on his foot on the moment.They said to him that he must come with them."Oh, listen to me" (i.e., give me time), said he, "till I dress myself."He went to the caher of the giants, and he got a fine new suit on him,and he went with them then.That's where the welcome was for him, and he as dressed up as e'er aman of them. They had a wedding for three days and three nights.They got the pond and I the lakelet. They were drowned, and I camethrough. And as I have it (i.e., the story) to night, that ye may nothave it to morrow night, or if ye have it itself, that ye may only losethe back teeth by it!DOUGLAS HYDE.