Many hundred years ago there lived an honest old woodcutter and hiswife. One fine morning the old man went off to the hills with hisbillhook, to gather a faggot of sticks, while his wife went down to theriver to wash the dirty clothes. When she came to the river, she saw apeach floating down the stream. so she picked it up, and carried it homewith her, thinking to give it to her husband to eat when he should comein.The old man soon came down from the hills, and the good wife set thepeach before him, when, just as she was inviting him to eat it, the fruitsplit in two, and a little puling baby was born into the world. So theold couple took the babe, and brought it up as their own. and, because ithad been born in a peach, they called it Momotaro, or LittlePeachling.By degrees Little Peachling grew up to be strong and brave, and at lastone day he said to his old foster parents: "I am going to the ogres'island to carry off the riches that they have stored up there. Pray,then, make me some millet dumplings for my journey."So the old folks ground the millet, and made the dumplings for him. andLittle Peachling, after taking an affectionate leave of them, cheerfullyset out on his travels.As he was journeying on, he fell in with a monkey, who gibbered at him,and said: "Kia! kia! kia! where are you off to, Little Peachling?""I'm going to the ogres' island, to carry off their treasure," answeredLittle Peachling."What are you carrying at your girdle?""I'm carrying the very best millet dumplings in all Japan.""If you'll give me one, I will go with you," said the monkey.So Little Peachling gave one of his dumplings to the monkey, who receivedit and followed him. When he had gone a little further, he heard apheasant calling: "Ken! ken! ken! where are you off to, Master Peachling?"Little Peachling answered as before. and the pheasant, having begged andobtained a millet dumpling, entered his service, and followed him.A little while after this, they met a dog, who cried: "Bow! wow! wow!whither away, Master Peachling?""I'm going off to the ogres' island, to carry off their treasure.""If you will give me one of those nice millet dumplings of yours, I willgo with you," said the dog."With all my heart," said Little Peachling. So he went on his way, withthe monkey, the pheasant, and the dog following after him.When they got to the ogres' island, the pheasant flew over the castlegate, and the monkey clambered over the castle wall, while LittlePeachling, leading the dog, forced in the gate, and got into the castle.Then they did battle with the ogres, and put them to flight, and tooktheir king prisoner. So all the ogres did homage to Little Peachling,and brought out the treasures which they had laid up. There were capsand coats that made their wearers invisible, jewels which governed theebb and flow of the tide, coral, musk, emeralds, amber, and tortoiseshell, besides gold and silver. All these were laid before LittlePeachling by the conquered ogres.So Little Peachling went home laden with riches, and maintained hisfoster parents in peace and plenty for the remainder of their lives.