(9) 'Die Siebenkopfige Schlange,' from Schmidt's Griechische Mahrchen.Once upon a time there was a king who determined to take a long voyage.He assembled his fleet and all the seamen, and set out. They wentstraight on night and day, until they came to an island which wascovered with large trees, and under every tree lay a lion. As soon asthe King had landed his men, the lions all rose up together and triedto devour them. After a long battle they managed to overcome thewild beasts, but the greater number of the men were killed. Those whoremained alive now went on through the forest and found on the otherside of it a beautiful garden, in which all the plants of the worldflourished together.There were also in the garden three springs: the first flowed withsilver, the second with gold, and the third with pearls. The menunbuckled their knapsacks and filled them with those precious things. Inthe middle of the garden they found a large lake, and when they reachedthe edge of it the Lake began to speak, and said to them, 'What men areyou, and what brings you here? Are you come to visit our king?' But theywere too much frightened to answer.Then the Lake said, 'You do well to be afraid, for it is at your perilthat you are come hither. Our king, who has seven heads, is now asleep,but in a few minutes he will wake up and come to me to take his bath!Woe to anyone who meets him in the garden, for it is impossible toescape from him. This is what you must do if you wish to save yourlives. Take off your clothes and spread them on the path which leadsfrom here to the castle. The King will then glide over something soft,which he likes very much, and he will be so pleased with that that hewill not devour you. He will give you some punishment, but then he willlet you go.'The men did as the Lake advised them, and waited for a time. At noon theearth began to quake, and opened in many places, and out of the openingsappeared lions, tigers, and other wild beasts, which surrounded thecastle, and thousands and thousands of beasts came out of the castlefollowing their king, the Seven headed Serpent. The Serpent glided overthe clothes which were spread for him, came to the Lake, and asked itwho had strewed those soft things on the path? The Lake answered thatit had been done by people who had come to do him homage. The Kingcommanded that the men should be brought before him. They came humbly ontheir knees, and in a few words told him their story. Then he spoke tothem with a mighty and terrible voice, and said, 'Because you have daredto come here, I lay upon you the punishment. Every year you must bringme from among your people twelve youths and twelve maidens, that I maydevour them. If you do not do this, I will destroy your whole nation.'Then he desired one of his beasts to show the men the way out of thegarden, and dismissed them. They then left the island and went back totheir own country, where they related what had happened to them. Soonthe time came round when the king of the beasts would expect theyouths and maidens to be brought to him. The King therefore issueda proclamation inviting twelve youths and twelve maidens to offerthemselves up to save their country. and immediately many young people,far more than enough, hastened to do so. A new ship was built, and setwith black sails, and in it the youths and maidens who were appointedfor the king of the beasts embarked and set out for his country. Whenthey arrived there they went at once to the Lake, and this time thelions did not stir, nor did the springs flow, and neither did the Lakespeak. So they waited then, and it was not long before the earth quakedeven more terribly than the first time. The Seven headed Serpent camewithout his train of beasts, saw his prey waiting for him, and devouredit at one mouthful. Then the ship's crew returned home, and the samething happened yearly until many years had passed.Now the King of this unhappy country was growing old, and so was theQueen, and they had no children. One day the Queen was sitting at thewindow weeping bitterly because she was childless, and knew that thecrown would therefore pass to strangers after the King's death. Suddenlya little old woman appeared before her, holding an apple in her hand,and said, 'Why do you weep, my Queen, and what makes you so unhappy?''Alas, good mother,' answered the Queen, 'I am unhappy because I have nochildren.''Is that what vexes you?' said the old woman. 'Listen to me. I am a nunfrom the Spinning Convent,(10) and my mother when she died left me thisapple. Whoever eats this apple shall have a child.'(10) Convent Gnothi.The Queen gave money to the old woman, and bought the apple from her.Then she peeled it, ate it, and threw the rind out of the window, and itso happened that a mare that was running loose in the court below ate upthe rind. After a time the Queen had a little boy, and the mare also hada male foal. The boy and the foal grew up together and loved each otherlike brothers. In course of time the King died, and so did the Queen,and their son, who was now nineteen years old, was left alone. One day,when he and his horse were talking together, the Horse said to him,'Listen to me, for I love you and wish for your good and that of thecountry. If you go on every year sending twelve youths and twelvemaidens to the King of the Beasts, your country will very soon beruined. Mount upon my back: I will take you to a woman who can directyou how to kill the Seven headed Serpent.'Then the youth mounted his horse, who carried him far away to a mountainwhich was hollow, for in its side was a great underground cavern. In thecavern sat an old woman spinning. This was the cloister of the nuns, andthe old woman was the Abbess. They all spent their time in spinning, andthat is why the convent has this name. All round the walls of the cavernthere were beds cut out of the solid rock, upon which the nuns slept,and in the middle a light was burning. It was the duty of the nuns towatch the light in turns, that it might never go out, and if anyone ofthem let it go out the others put her to death.As soon as the King's son saw the old Abbess spinning he threw himselfat her feet and entreated her to tell him how he could kill theSeven headed Serpent.She made the youth rise, embraced him, and said, 'Know, my son, that itis I who sent the nun to your mother and caused you to be born, and withyou the horse, with whose help you will be able to free the world fromthe monster. I will tell you what you have to do. Load your horse withcotton, and go by a secret passage which I will show you, which ishidden from the wild beasts, to the Serpent's palace. You will find theKing asleep upon his bed, which is all hung round with bells, andover his bed you will see a sword hanging. With this sword only it ispossible to kill the Serpent, because even if its blade breaks a new onewill grow again for every head the monster has. Thus you will be ableto cut off all his seven heads. And this you must also do in order todeceive the King: you must slip into his bed chamber very softly, andstop up all the bells which are round his bed with cotton. Then takedown the sword gently, and quickly give the monster a blow on his tailwith it. This will make him waken up, and if he catches sight of you hewill seize you. But you must quickly cut off his first head, and thenwait till the next one comes up. Then strike it off also, and so go ontill you have cut off all his seven heads.'The old Abbess then gave the Prince her blessing, and he set out uponhis enterprise, arrived at the Serpent's castle by following the secretpassage which she had shown him, and by carefully attending to all herdirections he happily succeeded in killing the monster. As soon asthe wild beasts heard of their king's death, they all hastened to thecastle, but the youth had long since mounted his horse and was alreadyfar out of their reach. They pursued him as fast as they could, but theyfound it impossible to overtake him, and he reached home in safety. Thushe freed his country from this terrible oppression.THE GRATEFUL BEASTS(11)(11) From the Hungarian. Kletke.There was once upon a time a man and woman who had three fine lookingsons, but they were so poor that they had hardly enough food forthemselves, let alone their children. So the sons determined to set outinto the world and to try their luck. Before starting their mother gavethem each a loaf of bread and her blessing, and having taken a tenderfarewell of her and their father the three set forth on their travels.The youngest of the three brothers, whose name was Ferko, was abeautiful youth, with a splendid figure, blue eyes, fair hair, and acomplexion like milk and roses. His two brothers were as jealous of himas they could be, for they thought that with his good looks he would besure to be more fortunate than they would ever be.One day all the three were sitting resting under a tree, for the sunwas hot and they were tired of walking. Ferko fell fast asleep, but theother two remained awake, and the eldest said to the second brother,'What do you say to doing our brother Ferko some harm? He is sobeautiful that everyone takes a fancy to him, which is more than they doto us. If we could only get him out of the way we might succeed better.''I quite agree with you,' answered the second brother, 'and my adviceis to eat up his loaf of bread, and then to refuse to give him a bitof ours until he has promised to let us put out his eyes or break hislegs.'His eldest brother was delighted with this proposal, and the two wickedwretches seized Ferko's loaf and ate it all up, while the poor boy wasstill asleep.When he did awake he felt very hungry and turned to eat his bread, buthis brothers cried out, 'You ate your loaf in your sleep, you glutton,and you may starve as long as you like, but you won't get a scrap ofours.'Ferko was at a loss to understand how he could have eaten in his sleep,but he said nothing, and fasted all that day and the next night. Buton the following morning he was so hungry that he burst into tears, andimplored his brothers to give him a little bit of their bread. Then thecruel creatures laughed, and repeated what they had said the day before.but when Ferko continued to beg and beseech them, the eldest said atlast, 'If you will let us put out one of your eyes and break one of yourlegs, then we will give you a bit of our bread.'At these words poor Ferko wept more bitterly than before, and bore thetorments of hunger till the sun was high in the heavens. then he couldstand it no longer, and he consented to allow his left eye to be put outand his left leg to be broken. When this was done he stretched out hishand eagerly for the piece of bread, but his brothers gave him such atiny scrap that the starving youth finished it in a moment and besoughtthem for a second bit.But the more Ferko wept and told his brothers that he was dying ofhunger, the more they laughed and scolded him for his greed. So heendured the pangs of starvation all that day, but when night came hisendurance gave way, and he let his right eye be put out and his rightleg broken for a second piece of bread.After his brothers had thus successfully maimed and disfigured him forlife, they left him groaning on the ground and continued their journeywithout him.Poor Ferko ate up the scrap of bread they had left him and weptbitterly, but no one heard him or came to his help. Night came on, andthe poor blind youth had no eyes to close, and could only crawl alongthe ground, not knowing in the least where he was going. But when thesun was once more high in the heavens, Ferko felt the blazing heatscorch him, and sought for some cool shady place to rest his achinglimbs. He climbed to the top of a hill and lay down in the grass, and ashe thought under the shadow of a big tree. But it was no tree he leantagainst, but a gallows on which two ravens were seated. The one wassaying to the other as the weary youth lay down, 'Is there anything theleast wonderful or remarkable about this neighbourhood?''I should just think there was,' replied the other. 'many things thatdon't exist anywhere else in the world. There is a lake down there belowus, and anyone who bathes in it, though he were at death's door, becomessound and well on the spot, and those who wash their eyes with the dewon this hill become as sharp sighted as the eagle, even if they havebeen blind from their youth.''Well,' answered the first raven, 'my eyes are in no want of thishealing bath, for, Heaven be praised, they are as good as ever theywere. but my wing has been very feeble and weak ever since it was shotby an arrow many years ago, so let us fly at once to the lake that I maybe restored to health and strength again.' And so they flew away.Their words rejoiced Ferko's heart, and he waited impatiently tillevening should come and he could rub the precious dew on his sightlesseyes.At last it began to grow dusk, and the sun sank behind the mountains.gradually it became cooler on the hill, and the grass grew wet with dew.Then Ferko buried his face in the ground till his eyes were damp withdewdrops, and in a moment he saw clearer than he had ever done in hislife before. The moon was shining brightly, and lighted him to the lakewhere he could bathe his poor broken legs.Then Ferko crawled to the edge of the lake and dipped his limbs in thewater. No sooner had he done so than his legs felt as sound and strongas they had been before, and Ferko thanked the kind fate that had ledhim to the hill where he had overheard the ravens' conversation. Hefilled a bottle with the healing water, and then continued his journeyin the best of spirits.He had not gone far before he met a wolf, who was limping disconsolatelyalong on three legs, and who on perceiving Ferko began to howl dismally.'My good friend,' said the youth, 'be of good cheer, for I can soon healyour leg,' and with these words he poured some of the precious waterover the wolf's paw, and in a minute the animal was springing aboutsound and well on all fours. The grateful creature thanked hisbenefactor warmly, and promised Ferko to do him a good turn if he shouldever need it.Ferko continued his way till he came to a ploughed field. Here henoticed a little mouse creeping wearily along on its hind paws, for itsfront paws had both been broken in a trap.Ferko felt so sorry for the little beast that he spoke to it in the mostfriendly manner, and washed its small paws with the healing water. Ina moment the mouse was sound and whole, and after thanking the kindphysician it scampered away over the ploughed furrows.Ferko again proceeded on his journey, but he hadn't gone far before aqueen bee flew against him, trailing one wing behind her, which had beencruelly torn in two by a big bird. Ferko was no less willing to helpher than he had been to help the wolf and the mouse, so he poured somehealing drops over the wounded wing. On the spot the queen bee wascured, and turning to Ferko she said, 'I am most grateful for yourkindness, and shall reward you some day.' And with these words she flewaway humming, gaily.Then Ferko wandered on for many a long day, and at length reacheda strange kingdom. Here, he thought to himself, he might as wellgo straight to the palace and offer his services to the King of thecountry, for he had heard that the King's daughter was as beautiful asthe day.So he went to the royal palace, and as he entered the door the firstpeople he saw were his two brothers who had so shamefully ill treatedhim. They had managed to obtain places in the King's service, and whenthey recognised Ferko with his eyes and legs sound and well they werefrightened to death, for they feared he would tell the King of theirconduct, and that they would be hung.No sooner had Ferko entered the palace than all eyes were turned on thehandsome youth, and the King's daughter herself was lost in admiration,for she had never seen anyone so handsome in her life before. Hisbrothers noticed this, and envy and jealousy were added to their fear,so much so that they determined once more to destroy him. They went tothe King and told him that Ferko was a wicked magician, who had come tothe palace with the intention of carrying off the Princess.Then the King had Ferko brought before him, and said, 'You are accusedof being a magician who wishes to rob me of my daughter, and I condemnyou to death. but if you can fulfil three tasks which I shall set you todo your life shall be spared, on condition you leave the country. but ifyou cannot perform what I demand you shall be hung on the nearest tree.'And turning to the two wicked brothers he said, 'Suggest something forhim to do. no matter how difficult, he must succeed in it or die.'They did not think long, but replied, 'Let him build your Majesty in oneday a more beautiful palace than this, and if he fails in the attemptlet him be hung.'The King was pleased with this proposal, and commanded Ferko to set towork on the following day. The two brothers were delighted, for theythought they had now got rid of Ferko for ever. The poor youth himselfwas heart broken, and cursed the hour he had crossed the boundary ofthe King's domain. As he was wandering disconsolately about the meadowsround the palace, wondering how he could escape being put to death, alittle bee flew past, and settling on his shoulder whispered in his ear,'What is troubling you, my kind benefactor? Can I be of any help to you?I am the bee whose wing you healed, and would like to show my gratitudein some way.'Ferko recognised the queen bee, and said, 'Alas! how could you help me?for I have been set to do a task which no one in the whole world coulddo, let him be ever such a genius! To morrow I must build a palace morebeautiful than the King's, and it must be finished before evening.''Is that all?' answered the bee, 'then you may comfort yourself. forbefore the sun goes down to morrow night a palace shall be built unlikeany that King has dwelt in before. Just stay here till I come again andtell you that it is finished.' Having said this she flew merrily away,and Ferko, reassured by her words, lay down on the grass and sleptpeacefully till the next morning.Early on the following day the whole town was on its feet, and everyonewondered how and where the stranger would build the wonderful palace.The Princess alone was silent and sorrowful, and had cried all nighttill her pillow was wet, so much did she take the fate of the beautifulyouth to heart.Ferko spent the whole day in the meadows waiting the return of the bee.And when evening was come the queen bee flew by, and perching on hisshoulder she said, 'The wonderful palace is ready. Be of good cheer,and lead the King to the hill just outside the city walls.' And humminggaily she flew away again.Ferko went at once to the King and told him the palace was finished. Thewhole court went out to see the wonder, and their astonishment was greatat the sight which met their eyes. A splendid palace reared itself onthe hill just outside the walls of the city, made of the most exquisiteflowers that ever grew in mortal garden. The roof was all of crimsonroses, the windows of lilies, the walls of white carnations, the floorsof glowing auriculas and violets, the doors of gorgeous tulips andnarcissi with sunflowers for knockers, and all round hyacinths and othersweet smelling flowers bloomed in masses, so that the air was perfumedfar and near and enchanted all who were present.This splendid palace had been built by the grateful queen bee, who hadsummoned all the other bees in the kingdom to help her.The King's amazement knew no bounds, and the Princess's eyes beamed withdelight as she turned them from the wonderful building on the delightedFerko. But the two brothers had grown quite green with envy, and onlydeclared the more that Ferko was nothing but a wicked magician.The King, although he had been surprised and astonished at the way hiscommands had been carried out, was very vexed that the stranger shouldescape with his life, and turning to the two brothers he said, 'He hascertainly accomplished the first task, with the aid no doubt of hisdiabolical magic. but what shall we give him to do now? Let us make itas difficult as possible, and if he fails he shall die.'Then the eldest brother replied, 'The corn has all been cut, but it hasnot yet been put into barns. let the knave collect all the grain in thekingdom into one big heap before to morrow night, and if as much as astalk of corn is left let him be put to death.The Princess grew white with terror when she heard these words. butFerko felt much more cheerful than he had done the first time, andwandered out into the meadows again, wondering how he was to get out ofthe difficulty. But he could think of no way of escape. The sun sank torest and night came on, when a little mouse started out of the grassat Ferko's feet, and said to him, 'I'm delighted to see you, my kindbenefactor. but why are you looking so sad? Can I be of any help to you,and thus repay your great kindness to me?'Then Ferko recognised the mouse whose front paws he had healed, andreplied, 'Alas I how can you help me in a matter that is beyond anyhuman power! Before to morrow night all the grain in the kingdom hasto be gathered into one big heap, and if as much as a stalk of corn iswanting I must pay for it with my life.''Is that all?' answered the mouse. 'that needn't distress you much. Justtrust in me, and before the sun sets again you shall hear that your taskis done.' And with these words the little creature scampered away intothe fields.Ferko, who never doubted that the mouse would be as good as its word,lay down comforted on the soft grass and slept soundly till nextmorning. The day passed slowly, and with the evening came the littlemouse and said, 'Now there is not a single stalk of corn left in anyfield. they are all collected in one big heap on the hill out there.'Then Ferko went joyfully to the King and told him that all he demandedhad been done. And the whole Court went out to see the wonder, and wereno less astonished than they had been the first time. For in a heaphigher than the King's palace lay all the grain of the country, and nota single stalk of corn had been left behind in any of the fields. Andhow had all this been done? The little mouse had summoned every othermouse in the land to its help, and together they had collected all thegrain in the kingdom.The King could not hide his amazement, but at the same time his wrathincreased, and he was more ready than ever to believe the two brothers,who kept on repeating that Ferko was nothing more nor less than a wickedmagician. Only the beautiful Princess rejoiced over Ferko's success, andlooked on him with friendly glances, which the youth returned.The more the cruel King gazed on the wonder before him, the moreangry he became, for he could not, in the face of his promise, put thestranger to death. He turned once more to the two brothers and said,'His diabolical magic has helped him again, but now what third taskshall we set him to do? No matter how impossible it is, he must do it ordie.'The eldest answered quickly, 'Let him drive all the wolves of thekingdom on to this hill before to morrow night. If he does this he maygo free. if not he shall be hung as you have said.'At these words the Princess burst into tears, and when the King saw thishe ordered her to be shut up in a high tower and carefully guarded tillthe dangerous magician should either have left the kingdom or been hungon the nearest tree.Ferko wandered out into the fields again, and sat down on the stump ofa tree wondering what he should do next. Suddenly a big wolf ran up tohim, and standing still said, 'I'm very glad to see you again, my kindbenefactor. What are you thinking about all alone by yourself? If I canhelp you in any way only say the word, for I would like to give you aproof of my gratitude.'Ferko at once recognised the wolf whose broken leg he had healed, andtold him what he had to do the following day if he wished to escape withhis life. 'But how in the world,' he added, 'am I to collect all thewolves of the kingdom on to that hill over there?''If that's all you want done,' answered the wolf, 'you needn't worryyourself. I'll undertake the task, and you'll hear from me again beforesunset to morrow. Keep your spirits up.' And with these words he trottedquickly away.Then the youth rejoiced greatly, for now he felt that his life was safe.but he grew very sad when he thought of the beautiful Princess, and thathe would never see her again if he left the country. He lay down oncemore on the grass and soon fell fast asleep.All the next day he spent wandering about the fields, and towardevening the wolf came running to him in a great hurry and said, 'I havecollected together all the wolves in the kingdom, and they are waitingfor you in the wood. Go quickly to the King, and tell him to go to thehill that he may see the wonder you have done with his own eyes. Thenreturn at once to me and get on my back, and I will help you to driveall the wolves together.'Then Ferko went straight to the palace and told the King that he wasready to perform the third task if he would come to the hill and see itdone. Ferko himself returned to the fields, and mounting on the wolf'sback he rode to the wood close by.Quick as lightning the wolf flew round the wood, and in a minute manyhundred wolves rose up before him, increasing in number every moment,till they could be counted by thousands. He drove them all before him onto the hill, where the King and his whole Court and Ferko's two brotherswere standing. Only the lovely Princess was not present, for she wasshut up in her tower weeping bitterly.The wicked brothers stamped and foamed with rage when they saw thefailure of their wicked designs. But the King was overcome by a suddenterror when he saw the enormous pack of wolves approaching nearer andnearer, and calling out to Ferko he said, 'Enough, enough, we don't wantany more.'But the wolf on whose back Ferko sat, said to its rider, 'Go on! goon!' and at the same moment many more wolves ran up the hill, howlinghorribly and showing their white teeth.The King in his terror called out, 'Stop a moment. I will give you halfmy kingdom if you will drive all the wolves away.' But Ferko pretendednot to hear, and drove some more thousands before him, so that everyonequaked with horror and fear.Then the King raised his voice again and called out, 'Stop! you shallhave my whole kingdom, if you will only drive these wolves back to theplaces they came from.'But the wolf kept on encouraging Ferko, and said, 'Go on! go on!' So heled the wolves on, till at last they fell on the King and on the wickedbrothers, and ate them and the whole Court up in a moment.Then Ferko went straight to the palace and set the Princess free, and onthe same day he married her and was crowned King of the country. And thewolves all went peacefully back to their own homes, and Ferko and hisbride lived for many years in peace and happiness together, and weremuch beloved by great and small in the land.