Once there was a man that had an old dog, so old that the man desired toput him aside. The dog had served him very faithfully when he was stillyoung, but ingratitude is the world's reward, and the man now wanted todispose of him. The old dumb creature, however, ferreted out the plan ofhis master, and so at once resolved to go away of his own accord.After he had walked quite a way he met an old bull in the veldt."Don't you want to go with me?" asked the dog."Where?" was the reply."To the land of the aged," said the dog, "where troubles don't disturbyou, and thanklessness does not deface the deeds of man.""Good," said the bull, "I am your companion."The two now walked on and found a ram. The dog laid the plan before him,and all moved off together, until they afterwards came successively upon adonkey, a cat, a cock, and a goose. These joined their company, and theseven set out on their journey.Late one night they came to a house, and through the open door they saw atable spread with all kinds of nice food, of which some robbers werehaving their fill. It would help nothing to ask for admittance, and seeingthat they were hungry, they must think of something else.Therefore the donkey climbed up on the bull, the ram on the donkey, thedog on the ram, the cat on the dog, the goose on the cat, and the cock onthe goose, and with one accord they all let out terrible (threatening)noises (cryings). The bull began to bellow, the donkey to bray, the dog tobark, the ram to bleat, the cat to mew, the goose to giggle gaggle, andthe cock to crow, all without cessation.The people in the house were frightened perfectly limp. they glanced outthrough the front door, and there they stared on the strange sight. Someof them took to the ropes over the back lower door, some disappearedthrough the window, and in a few counts the house was empty.Then the seven old animals climbed down from one another, stepped into thehouse, and satisfied themselves with the delicious food.But when they had finished, there still remained a great deal of food, toomuch to take with them on their remaining journey, and so together theycontrived a plan to hold their position until the next day afterbreakfast.The dog said, "See here, I am accustomed to watch at the front door of mymaster's house," and thereupon flopped himself down to sleep. the bullsaid, "I go behind the door," and there he took his position. the ramsaid, I will go up on to the loft". the donkey, "I at the middle door".the cat, "I in the fireplace". the goose, "I in the back door ". and thecock said, "I am going to sleep on the bed."The captain of the robbers after a while sent one of his men back to seeif these creatures had yet left the house. The man came very cautiouslyinto the neighborhood, listened and listened, but he heard nothing. hepeeped through the window, and saw in the grate just two coals stillglimmering, and thereupon started to walk through the front door. Therethe old dog seized him by the leg. He jumped into the house, but the bullwas ready, swept him up with his horns, and tossed him on to the loft.Here the ram received him and pushed him off the loft again. Reachingground, he made for the middle door, but the donkey set up a terriblebraying and at the same time gave him a kick that landed him in thefireplace, where the cat flew at him and scratched him nearly to pieces.He then jumped out through the back door, and here the goose got him bythe trousers. When he was some distance away the cock crowed. He thereuponran so that you could hear the stones rattle in the dark.Purple and crimson and out of breath, he came back to his companions."Frightful, frightful!" was all that they could get from him at first, butafter a while he told them, "When I looked through the window I saw in thefireplace two bright coals shining, and when I wanted to go through thefront door to go and look, I stepped into an iron trap. I jumped into thehouse, and there some one seized me with a fork and pitched me up on tothe loft, there again someone was ready, and threw me down on all fours. Iwanted to fly through the middle door, but there some one blew on atrumpet, and smote me with a sledge hammer so that I did not know where Ilanded. but coming to very quickly, I found I was in the fireplace, andthere another flew at me and scratched the eyes almost out of my head. Ithereupon fled out of the back door, and lastly I was attacked on the legby the sixth with a pair of fire tongs, and when I was still running away,someone shouted out of the house, 'Stop him, stop h   i   m!'"