Once in a certain empire, in certain kingdom, there was a lord, and there was also a peasant, and I cannot say how poor he was.The lord summoned him and said, "Listen, little peasant! You have not paid your debt, and one cannot get anything from you. Come and work for me for three years to pay off your debt."The peasant lived with him a first, a second, and a third year. The master, seeing that the peasant soon would have paid off his debt, thought to himself, "What fault could I invent in order to keep the peasant working here for another three years."The lord summoned him and said, "Listen, little peasant, here are ten hares. Take them out to graze in the meadow, and be very careful to bring them all back, otherwise I will keep you here with me for another three years."As the peasant began to drive the hares to the meadow they all fled in all directions."What can I do?" he thought. Now I'm lost!"He sat down and cried.Coming from who knows where, an old man appeared, and asked, "Why are you crying, little peasant?""How can I not cry, old man? My master gave me hares to graze, and they all ran away. Now my downfall is inevitable."The old man gave him a fife and said, "Here is a fife. when you play on it they will all come running back to you!"Thanking him, the peasant took the fife, and he had scarcely played on it when all the hares immediately ran back to him.He drove them home. The master counted the hares and exclaimed, "All ten!"Then the lord said to his wife, "Well, what shall we do? What fault can we now find with the peasant?""Darling, here's what we shall do. Tomorrow, after he has taken the hares out to graze, I shall disguise myself with different clothes. Then I'll find him and buy a hare from him!""Good!"The next morning the peasant took the hares out to graze, and no sooner had he arrived in the woods than they all ran off in different directions. But the peasant just sat on the grass and began to weave hemp shoes.Suddenly the lady approached in her carriage. She stopped, came up to him, and asked, "What are you doing there, little peasant?""I'm grazing livestock.""What kind of livestock?"The peasant took his fife and played on it. All the hares ran up to him."Ah, little peasant!" said the lady, sell me one of those hares.""Impossible! They are the lord's hares, and the lord is very strict with me! He would destroy me without mercy."The lady persisted: "I beg you to sell me one."Seeing her great desire to have a hare, the peasant said, "But, good lady, I have a rule.""What kid of rule?"I will give a hare to that person lets me f   her.""Just ask for more money, little peasant!""No, I do not want anything else ''So the lady (what else could she do?) let the peasant f   her. He did his thing and then gave her a hare."Hold it gently, lady, or you will strangle it."She took the hare, got into her carriage, and left.But when the peasant played his fife the hare heard it and escaped from the lady's hands and returned to the peasant.The lady arrived home."Well, did you buy the hare?""I bought it, I bought it, but when the peasant played his fife, the hare escaped from my hands and ran away."The following day the lady returned to the peasant. She approached him and again asked, "What are you doing, little peasant?"I'm weaving hemp shoes and grazing my master's livestock.""Where is the livestock?"The peasant played his fife and immediately all the hares ran up to him."The lady wanted to buy a hare."I have a rule.""What is it?""Let me f   you."The lady let him f   her a second time, and she received a hare, but when the peasant played the fife, the hare escaped and ran away from her.On the third day, the master, in disguise, went out himself. "What are you doing, little peasant?""I'm grazing livestock.""And where is your livestock?"The peasant played his fife, and the hares came running towards him."Sell me one of those hares!""I do not sell them for money. I have a rule.""What rule?""I'll give a hare to whomsoever will f   a mare."So the lord mounted the mare and fornicated with her.The peasant gave him a hare and said, "Hold it carefully, lord. otherwise you will strangle it."The lord took the hare and went home, but the peasant played on his fife. The hare heard it and ran away to the peasant. The lord saw that he could do nothing more, and he let the peasant live in freedom.