In days long past there lived a poor woodcutter who foundlife very hard. Indeed, it was his lot to toil for littleguerdon, and although he was young and happily marriedthere were moments when he wished himself dead andbelow ground.One day while at his work he was again lamenting his fate."Some men," he said, "have only to make known theirdesires, and straightway these are granted, and their everywish fulfilled. but it has availed me little to wish for ought,for the gods are deaf to the prayers of such as I."As he spoke these words there was a great noise ofthunder, and Jupiter appeared before him wielding hismighty thunderbolts. Our poor man was stricken with fearand threw himself on the ground."My lord," he said, "forget my foolish speech. heed notmy wishes, but cease thy thundering!""Have no fear," answered Jupiter. "I have heard thyplaint, and have come hither to show thee how greatly thoudost wrong me. Hark! I, who am sovereign lord of thisworld, promise to grant in full the first three wishes which itwill please thee to utter, whatever these may be. Considerwell what things can bring thee joy and prosperity, and asthy happiness is at stake, be not over hasty, but revolve thematter in thy mind."Having thus spoken Jupiter withdrew himself and madehis ascent to Olympus. As for our woodcutter, he blithelycorded his faggot, and throwing it over his shoulder, madefor his home. To one so light of heart the load also seemedlight, and his thoughts were merry as he strode along. Manya wish came into his mind, but he was resolved to seek theadvice of his wife, who was a young woman of good understanding.He had soon reached his cottage, and casting down hisfaggot:"Behold me, Fanny," he said. "Make up the fire andspread the board, and let there be no stint. We are wealthy,Fanny, wealthy for evermore. we have only to wish forwhatsoever we may desire."Thereupon he told her the story of what had befallenthat day. Fanny, whose mind was quick and active,immediately conceived many plans for the advancement oftheir fortune, but she approved her husband's resolve to actwith prudence and circumspection."'Twere a pity," she said, "to spoil our chances throughimpatience. We had best take counsel of the night, and wishno wishes until tomorrow.""That is well spoken," answered Harry. "Meanwhilefetch a bottle of our best, and we shall drink to our goodfortune."Fanny brought a bottle from the store behind the faggots,and our man enjoyed his ease, leaning back in his chair withhis toes to the fire and his goblet in his hand."What fine glowing embers!" he said, "and what afine toasting fire! I wish we had a black pudding athand."Hardly had he spoken these words when his wife beheld,to her great astonishment, a long black pudding which,issuing from a corner of the hearth, came winding andwriggling towards her. She uttered a cry of fear, and thenagain exclaimed in dismay, when she perceived that thisstrange occurrence was due to the wish which her husbandhad so rashly and foolishly spoken. Turning upon him, inher anger and disappointment she called the poor man all theabusive names that she could think of."What!" she said to him, "when you can call for akingdom, for gold, pearls, rubies, diamonds, for princelygarments and wealth untold, is this the time to set your mindupon black puddings!""Nay!" answered the man, "'twas a thoughtless speech,and a sad mistake. but I shall now be on my guard, andshall do better next time.""Who knows that you will?" returned his wife."Once a witless fool, always a witless fool!" and givingfree rein to her vexation and ill temper she continued toupbraid her husband until his anger also was stirred, andhe had wellnigh made a second bid and wished himselfa widower."Enough! woman," he cried at last. "put a check uponthy froward tongue! Who ever heard such impertinence asthis! A plague on the shrew and on her pudding! Wouldto heaven it hung at the end of her nose!"No sooner had the husband given voice to these wordsthan the wish was straightway granted, and the long coilof black pudding appeared grafted to the angry dame'snose.Our man paused when he beheld what he had wrought.Fanny was a comely young woman, and blest with goodlooks, and truth to tell, this new ornament did not setoff her beauty. Yet it offered one advantage, that as ithung right before her mouth, it would thus effectively curbher speech.So, having now but one wish left, he had all butresolved to make good use of it without further delay,and, before any other mischance could befall, to wishhimself a kingdom of his own. He was about to speakthe word, when he was stayed by a sudden thought."It is true," he said to himself, "that there is noneso great as a king, but what of the queen that must sharehis dignity? With what grace would she sit beside meon the throne with a yard of black pudding for a nose?"In this dilemma he resolved to put the case to Fanny,and to leave her to decide whether she would rather bea queen, with this most horrible appendage marring hergood looks, or remain a peasant wife, but with her shapelynose relieved of this untoward addition.Fanny's mind was soon made up: Although she haddreamt of a crown and sceptre, yet a woman's first wishis always to please. To this great desire all else mustyield, and Fanny would rather be fair in drugget thanbe a queen with an ugly face.Thus our woodcutter did not change his state, did notbecome a potentate, nor fill his purse with golden crowns.He was thankful enough to use his remaining wish toa more humble purpose, and forthwith relieved his wifeof her encumbrance.