A STORY OF OLD JAPAN.Many, many years ago there lived in Nara, the ancient Capital of Japan,a wise State minister, by name Prince Toyonari Fujiwara. His wife was anoble, good, and beautiful woman called Princess Murasaki (Violet).They had been married by their respective families according toJapanese custom when very young, and had lived together happily eversince. They had, however, one cause for great sorrow, for as the yearswent by no child was born to them. This made them very unhappy, forthey both longed to see a child of their own who would grow up togladden their old age, carry on the family name, and keep up theancestral rites when they were dead. The Prince and his lovely wife,after long consultation and much thought, determined to make apilgrimage to the temple of Hase no Kwannon (Goddess of Mercy at Hase),for they believed, according to the beautiful tradition of theirreligion, that the Mother of Mercy, Kwannon, comes to answer theprayers of mortals in the form that they need the most. Surely afterall these years of prayer she would come to them in the form of abeloved child in answer to their special pilgrimage, for that was thegreatest need of their two lives. Everything else they had that thislife could give them, but it was all as nothing because the cry oftheir hearts was unsatisfied.So the Prince Toyonari and his wife went to the temple of Kwannon atHase and stayed there for a long time, both daily offering incense andpraying to Kwannon, the Heavenly Mother, to grant them the desire oftheir whole lives. And their prayer was answered.A daughter was born at last to the Princess Murasaki, and great was thejoy of her heart. On presenting the child to her husband, they bothdecided to call her Hase Hime, or the Princess of Hase, because she wasthe gift of the Kwannon at that place. They both reared her with greatcare and tenderness, and the child grew in strength and beauty.When the little girl was five years old her mother fell dangerously illand all the doctors and their medicines could not save her. A littlebefore she breathed her last she called her daughter to her, and gentlystroking her head, said:"Hase Hime, do you know that your mother cannot live any longer? ThoughI die, you must grow up a good girl. Do your best not to give troubleto your nurse or any other of your family. Perhaps your father willmarry again and some one will fill my place as your mother. If so donot grieve for me, but look upon your father's second wife as your truemother, and be obedient and filial to both her and your father.Remember when you are grown up to be submissive to those who are yoursuperiors, and to be kind to all those who are under you. Don't forgetthis. I die with the hope that you will grow up a model woman."Hase Hime listened in an attitude of respect while her mother spoke,and promised to do all that she was told. There is a proverb which says"As the soul is at three so it is at one hundred," and so Hase Himegrew up as her mother had wished, a good and obedient little Princess,though she was now too young to understand how great was the loss ofher mother.Not long after the death of his first wife, Prince Toyonari marriedagain, a lady of noble birth named Princess Terute. Very different incharacter, alas! to the good and wise Princess Murasaki, this woman hada cruel, bad heart. She did not love her step daughter at all, and wasoften very unkind to the little motherless girl, saving to herself:"This is not my child! this is not my child!"But Hase Hime bore every unkindness with patience, and even waited uponher step mother kindly and obeyed her in every way and never gave anytrouble, just as she had been trained by her own good mother, so thatthe Lady Terute had no cause for complaint against her.The little Princess was very diligent, and her favorite studies weremusic and poetry. She would spend several hours practicing every day,and her father had the most proficient of masters he could find toteach her the koto (Japanese harp), the art of writing letters andverse. When she was twelve years of age she could play so beautifullythat she and her step mother were summoned to the Palace to performbefore the Emperor.It was the Festival of the Cherry Flowers, and there were greatfestivities at the Court. The Emperor threw himself into the enjoymentof the season, and commanded that Princess Hase should perform beforehim on the koto, and that her mother Princess Terute should accompanyher on the flute.The Emperor sat on a raised dais, before which was hung a curtain offinely sliced bamboo and purple tassels, so that His Majesty might seeall and not be seen, for no ordinary subject was allowed to look uponhis sacred face.Hase Hime was a skilled musician though so young, and often astonishedher masters by her wonderful memory and talent. On this momentousoccasion she played well. But Princess Terute, her step mother, who wasa lazy woman and never took the trouble to practice daily, broke downin her accompaniment and had to request one of the Court ladies to takeher place. This was a great disgrace, and she was furiously jealous tothink that she had failed where her step daughter succeeded. and tomake matters worse the Emperor sent many beautiful gifts to the littlePrincess to reward her for playing so well at the Palace.There was also now another reason why Princess Terute hated herstep daughter, for she had had the good fortune to have a son born toher, and in her inmost heart she kept saying:"If only Hase Hime were not here, my son would have all the love of hisfather."And never having learned to control herself, she allowed this wickedthought to grow into the awful desire of taking her step daughter'slife.So one day she secretly ordered some poison and poisoned some sweetwine. This poisoned wine she put into a bottle. Into another similarbottle she poured some good wine. It was the occasion of the Boys'Festival on the fifth of May, and Hase Hime was playing with her littlebrother. All his toys of warriors and heroes were spread out and shewas telling him wonderful stories about each of them. They were bothenjoying themselves and laughing merrily with their attendants when hismother entered with the two bottles of wine and some delicious cakes."You are both so good and happy." said the wicked Princess Terute witha smile, "that I have brought you some sweet wine as a reward and hereare some nice cakes for my good children."And she filled two cups from the different bottles.Hase Hime, never dreaming of the dreadful part her step mother wasacting, took one of the cups of wine and gave to her little stepbrother the other that had been poured out for him.The wicked woman had carefully marked the poisoned bottle, but oncoming into the room she had grown nervous, and pouring out the winehurriedly had unconsciously given the poisoned cup to her own child.All this time she was anxiously watching the little Princess, but toher amazement no change whatever took place in the young girl's face.Suddenly the little boy screamed and threw himself on the floor,doubled up with pain. His mother flew to him, taking the precaution toupset the two tiny jars of wine which she had brought into the room,and lifted him up. The attendants rushed for the doctor, but nothingcould save the child he died within the hour in his mother's arms.Doctors did not know much in those ancient times, and it was thoughtthat the wine had disagreed with the boy, causing convulsions of whichhe died.Thus was the wicked woman punished in losing her own child when she hadtried to do away with her step daughter. but instead of blaming herselfshe began to hate Hase Hime more than ever in the bitterness andwretchedness of her own heart, and she eagerly watched for anopportunity to do her harm, which was, however, long in coming.When Hase Hime was thirteen years of age, she had already becomementioned as a poetess of some merit. This was an accomplishment verymuch cultivated by the women of old Japan and one held in high esteem.It was the rainy season at Nara, and floods were reported every day asdoing damage in the neighborhood. The river Tatsuta, which flowedthrough the Imperial Palace grounds, was swollen to the top of itsbanks, and the roaring of the torrents of water rushing along a narrowbed so disturbed the Emperor's rest day and night, that a seriousnervous disorder was the result. An Imperial Edict was sent forth toall the Buddhist temples commanding the priests to offer up continuousprayers to Heaven to stop the noise of the flood. But this was of noavail.Then it was whispered in Court circles that the Princess Hase, thedaughter of Prince Toyonari Fujiwara, second minister at Court, was themost gifted poetess of the day, though still so young, and her mastersconfirmed the report. Long ago, a beautiful and gifted maiden poetesshad moved Heaven by praying in verse, had brought down rain upon a landfamished with drought so said the ancient biographers of the poetessOno no Komachi. If the Princess Hase were to write a poem and offer itin prayer, might it not stop the noise of the rushing river and removethe cause of the Imperial illness? What the Court said at last reachedthe ears of the Emperor himself, and he sent an order to the ministerPrince Toyonari to this effect.Great indeed was Hase Hime's fear and astonishment when her father sentfor her and told her what was required of her. Heavy, indeed, was theduty that was laid on her young shoulders that of saving the Emperor'slife by the merit of her verse.At last the day came and her poem was finished. It was written on aleaflet of paper heavily flecked with gold dust. With her father andattendants and some of the Court officials, she proceeded to the bankof the roaring torrent and raising up her heart to Heaven, she read thepoem she had composed, aloud, lifting it heavenwards in her two hands.Strange indeed it seemed to all those standing round. The waters ceasedtheir roaring, and the river was quiet in direct answer to her prayer.After this the Emperor soon recovered his health.His Majesty was highly pleased, and sent for her to the Palace andrewarded her with the rank of Chinjo that of Lieutenant General todistinguish her. From that time she was called Chinjo hime, or theLieutenant General Princess, and respected and loved by all.There was only one person who was not pleased at Hase Hime's success.That one was her stepmother. Forever brooding over the death of her ownchild whom she had killed when trying to poison her step daughter, shehad the mortification of seeing her rise to power and honor, marked byImperial favor and the admiration of the whole Court. Her envy andjealousy burned in her heart like fire. Many were the lies she carriedto her husband about Hase Hime, but all to no purpose. He would listento none of her tales, telling her sharply that she was quite mistaken.At last the step mother, seizing the opportunity of her husband'sabsence, ordered one of her old servants to take the innocent girl tothe Hibari Mountains, the wildest part of the country, and to kill herthere. She invented a dreadful story about the little Princess, sayingthat this was the only way to prevent disgrace falling upon thefamily by killing her.Katoda, her vassal, was bound to obey his mistress. Anyhow, he saw thatit would be the wisest plan to pretend obedience in the absence of thegirl's father, so he placed Hase Hime in a palanquin and accompaniedher to the most solitary place he could find in the wild district. Thepoor child knew there was no good in protesting to her unkindstep mother at being sent away in this strange manner, so she went asshe was told.But the old servant knew that the young Princess was quite innocent ofall the things her step mother had invented to him as reasons for heroutrageous orders, and he determined to save her life. Unless he killedher, however, he could not return to his cruel task mistress, so hedecided to stay out in the wilderness. With the help of some peasantshe soon built a little cottage, and having sent secretly for his wifeto come, these two good old people did all in their power to take careof the now unfortunate Princess. She all the time trusted in herfather, knowing that as soon as he returned home and found her absent,he would search for her.Prince Toyonari, after some weeks, came home, and was told by his wifethat his daughter Hime had done something wrong and had run away forfear of being punished. He was nearly ill with anxiety. Every one inthe house told the same story that Hase Hime had suddenly disappeared,none of them knew why or whither. For fear of scandal he kept thematter quiet and searched everywhere he could think of, but all to nopurpose.One day, trying to forget his terrible worry, he called all his mentogether and told them to make ready for a several days' hunt in themountains. They were soon ready and mounted, waiting at the gate fortheir lord. He rode hard and fast to the district of the HibariMountains, a great company following him. He was soon far ahead ofevery one, and at last found himself in a narrow picturesque valley.Looking round and admiring the scenery, he noticed a tiny house on oneof the hills quite near, and then he distinctly heard a beautiful clearvoice reading aloud. Seized with curiosity as to who could be studyingso diligently in such a lonely spot, he dismounted, and leaving hishorse to his groom, he walked up the hillside and approached thecottage. As he drew nearer his surprise increased, for he could seethat the reader was a beautiful girl. The cottage was wide open and shewas sitting facing the view. Listening attentively, he heard herreading the Buddhist scriptures with great devotion. More and morecurious, he hurried on to the tiny gate and entered the little garden,and looking up beheld his lost daughter Hase Hime. She was so intent onwhat she was saying that she neither heard nor saw her father till hespoke."Hase Hime!" he cried, "it is you, my Hase Hime!"Taken by surprise, she could hardly realize that it was her own dearfather who was calling her, and for a moment she was utterly bereft ofthe power to speak or move."My father, my father! It is indeed you oh, my father!" was all shecould say, and running to him she caught hold of his thick sleeve, andburying her face burst into a passion of tears.Her father stroked her dark hair, asking her gently to tell him allthat had happened, but she only wept on, and he wondered if he were notreally dreaming.Then the faithful old servant Katoda came out, and bowing himself tothe ground before his master, poured out the long tale of wrong,telling him all that had happened, and how it was that he found hisdaughter in such a wild and desolate spot with only two old servants totake care of her.The Prince's astonishment and indignation knew no bounds. He gave upthe hunt at once and hurried home with his daughter. One of the companygalloped ahead to inform the household of the glad news, and thestep mother hearing what had happened, and fearful of meeting herhusband now that her wickedness was discovered, fled from the house andreturned in disgrace to her father's roof, and nothing more was heardof her.The old servant Katoda was rewarded with the highest promotion in hismaster's service, and lived happily to the end of his days, devoted tothe little Princess, who never forgot that she owed her life to thisfaithful retainer. She was no longer troubled by an unkind step mother,and her days passed happily and quietly with her father.As Prince Toyonari had no son, he adopted a younger son of one of theCourt nobles to be his heir, and to marry his daughter Hase Hime, andin a few years the marriage took place. Hase Hime lived to a good oldage, and all said that she was the wisest, most devout, and mostbeautiful mistress that had ever reigned in Prince Toyonari's ancienthouse. She had the joy of presenting her son, the future lord of thefamily, to her father just before he retired from active life.To this day there is preserved a piece of needle work in one of theBuddhist temples of Kioto. It is a beautiful piece of tapestry, withthe figure of Buddha embroidered in the silky threads drawn from thestem of the lotus. This is said to have been the work of the hands ofthe good Princess Hase.