Once upon a time there was a cheerful wanderer who went into a tavern todrink a glass of wine.The hostess said, "Where are you coming from?""I have just come from heaven!" said the stranger."What do you say! You have come from heaven?" said the woman."But of course," he replied."Well, then," said the woman, "you must have seen my blessed husband. Hisname is Hans.""But of course I have seen him," said the stranger. "I know him very well.We have always been good friends with each other.""Good heavens!" said the woman. "What do you say! Have you really seenhim? And spoken with him? And know him?""Why not?" replied the man."For heaven's sake!" said the woman. "How is he then?""Oh, just so so. Not the very best," said the stranger. "It is difficultto get by up there. He has to work hard, and the wagesare very low. The last time I saw him he just about did not have a wholeshirt on his body.""For pity's sake!" sobbed the woman. "If only I knew," she continued, "howI could send something back to him. I wouldlike to give him something. I have enough here, thank heaven!""Oh!" said the wanderer. "That would be good. I am going back right away,and I could take something to him, whateveryou would like to send him. I would be glad to do it!""Oh, my dear friend," said the woman, "you say that he no longer has ashirt on his body, a whole one? I just had a halfdozen new ones made for my oldest son. They would also fit my blessedhusband. Would you take them along?""Gladly!" he said."And these three hundred florins as well?""Those as well," he said. "I can manage to carry them.""Oh heaven," she continued, "and I have half a ham and a few sausages  he always liked them so much!"The stranger took these as well, and then, while saying a thousand thanks,he set forth on his journey.When the hostess's oldest son came home and learned from his mother whathad happened, he quickly saddled his horseand chased after the traveler from heaven. The latter, in good spirits,had walked into the country and had just sat down atthe edge of some woods. When he saw the rider galloping toward him hesensed that it meant trouble. He immediately sethis hat on the ground and pretended to be carefully watching over it.When the rider came near he stopped and asked the wanderer if he was theman who was traveling to heaven."Yes indeed," he said. "I am the one.""Then," he shouted, "give me at once the money that you were to take to myfather!""Whatever you want," said the traveler. "It is all the same to me. If youdon't want your father to have it, then I won't have tocarry it. But you will have to wait a little while. I have caught a veryvaluable and rare bird under my hat. It is worth at leastthree hundred florins. I sent a man into town to fetch a cage for me.Because he did not have anything to carry, I gave theman the three hundred florins that your father was to have. When he comesback with the cage then you will have to ride totown with me."The son agreed to do this, and he remained there.After a while the traveler from heaven said, "If you would watch over thisbird very carefully then I could run after the manright now, otherwise he may not come back very soon. Or, it would be evenfaster if you would lend me your horse. Then Iwould be back immediately, and you could return home in good time."The son thought that this proposal made good sense. He agreed to it atonce and let the traveler mount his horse.Meanwhile, he kept watch over the valuable bird under the hat.There he sat, and after sitting there for several hours the traveler fromheaven still had not returned with the horse and themoney. He could not leave his post because of the valuable bird, which heconsidered to be security for the three hundred florins.Evening came, and finally he decided to pick up the bird in his hand andtake it into town himself. Very carefully he lifted thehat a little, so that he could reach his hand under it. It was not a birdthat he took hold of, but something entirely different,something that he never told anyone about.Suddenly he decided to return home to his mother. She was surprised thathe came home so late, and without his horse. Hetold her that he had decided to give the horse as well to the travelerfrom heaven, so that he could deliver the things morequickly to his father. She was satisfied with this answer. The son did nothave anything further to say about the matter.