Once upon a time a crow, a jackal, a hyena, and a camel swore a friendship, and agreed to seek their food in common.Said the camel to the crow, "Friend, you can fly. Go forth and reconnoiter the country for us."So the crow flew away from tree to tree until he came to a fine field of muskmelons, and then he returned and reported the fact to his companions. "You," said he to the camel, "can eat the leaves, but the fruit must be the share of the jackal, the hyena, and myself."When it was night all four visited the field and began to make a hearty supper. Suddenly the owner woke up and rushed to the rescue. The crow, the jackal, and the hyena easily escaped, but the camel was caught and driven out with cruel blows.Overtaking his comrades, he said, "Pretty partners you are, to leave your friend in the lurch!"Said the jackal, "We were surprised. But cheer up. Tonight we'll stand by you and won't allow you to be thrashed again!"The next day the owner, as a precaution, covered his field with nets and nooses.At midnight the four friends returned again, and began devouring as before.The crow, the jackal, and the hyena soon had eaten their fill, but not so the camel, who had hardly satisfied the cravings of hunger when the jackal suddenly remarked, "Camel, I fell a strong inclination to bark.""For heaven's sake don't," said the camel. "You'll bring up the owner, and then while you all escape I shall be thrashed again.""Bark I must," replied the jackal, who set up a dismal yell.Out from his hut ran the owner. But it happened that while the camel, the crow, and the jackal succeeded in getting away, the stupid hyena was caught in a net."Friends! Friends!" cried he. "Are you going to abandon me? I shall be killed!""Obey my directions," said the crow, "and all will be right.""What shall I do?" asked the hyena."Lie down and pretend to be dead," said the crow, "and the owner will merely throw you out, after which you can run away."He had hardly spoken when the owner came to the spot, and seeing what he believed to be a dead hyena, he seized him by the hind legs and threw him out of the field, when at once the delighted hyena sprang to his feet and trotted away."Ah!" said the man. "That rascal was not dead after all."When the four associates met again, the camel said to the jackal, "Your barking, friend, might have got me another beating. Never mind. All's well that ends well. Today yours, tomorrow mine."Some time afterwards the camel said, "Jackal, I'm going out for a walk. If you will get on my back I will give you a ride, and you can see the world."The jackal agreed, and, stooping down, the camel allowed him to mount on his back. As they were going along they came to a village, whereupon all the dogs rushed out and began barking furiously at the jackal, whom they eyed on the camel's back.Then said the camel to the jackal, "O jackal, I feel a strong inclination to roll.""For heaven's sake, don't!" pleaded the jackal. "I shall be worried.""Roll I must," replied the camel, and he rolled, while the village dogs fell on the jackal before he could escape, and tore him to pieces.Then the camel returned and reported the traitor's death to his friends, who mightily approved the deed.