"That was a terrible affair!" said a hen, and in a quarter of thetown, too, where it had not taken place. "That was a terrible affairin a hen roost. I cannot sleep alone to night. It is a good thing thatmany of us sit on the roost together." And then she told a storythat made the feathers on the other hens bristle up, and the cock'scomb fall. There was no doubt about it.But we will begin at the beginning, and that is to be found in ahen roost in another part of the town. The sun was setting, and thefowls were flying on to their roost. one hen, with white feathersand short legs, used to lay her eggs according to the regulations, andwas, as a hen, respectable in every way. As she was flying upon theroost, she plucked herself with her beak, and a little feather cameout."There it goes," she said. "the more I pluck, the more beautifuldo I get." She said this merrily, for she was the best of the hens,and, moreover, as had been said, very respectable. With that shewent to sleep.It was dark all around, and hen sat close to hen, but the onewho sat nearest to her merry neighbour did not sleep. She had heardand yet not heard, as we are often obliged to do in this world, inorder to live at peace. but she could not keep it from her neighbouron the other side any longer. "Did you hear what was said? I mentionno names, but there is a hen here who intends to pluck herself inorder to look well. If I were a cock, I should despise her."Just over the fowls sat the owl, with father owl and the littleowls. The family has sharp ears, and they all heard every word thattheir neighbour had said. They rolled their eyes, and mother owl,beating her wings, said: "Don't listen to her! But I suppose you heardwhat was said? I heard it with my own ears, and one has to hear agreat deal before they fall off. There is one among the fowls whohas so far forgotten what is becoming to a hen that she plucks out allher feathers and lets the cock see it.""Prenez garde aux enfants!" said father owl. "children shouldnot hear such things.""But I must tell our neighbour owl about it. she is such anestimable owl to talk to." And with that she flew away."Too whoo! Too whoo!" they both hooted into the neighbour'sdove cot to the doves inside. "Have you heard? Have you heard?Too whoo! There is a hen who has plucked out all her feathers forthe sake of the cock. she will freeze to death, if she is not frozenalready. Too whoo!""Where? where?" cooed the doves."In the neighbour's yard. I have as good as seen it myself. Itis almost unbecoming to tell the story, but there is no doubt aboutit.""Believe every word of what we tell you," said the doves, andcooed down into their poultry yard. "There is a hen nay, some saythat there are two who have plucked out all their feathers, inorder not to look like the others, and to attract the attention of thecock. It is a dangerous game, for one can easily catch cold and diefrom fever, and both of these are dead already.""Wake up! wake up!" crowed the cock, and flew upon his board.Sleep was still in his eyes, but yet he crowed out: "Three hens havedied of their unfortunate love for a cock. They had plucked out alltheir feathers. It is a horrible story: I will not keep it tomyself, but let it go farther.""Let it go farther," shrieked the bats, and the hens clucked andthe cocks crowed, "Let it go farther! Let it go farther!" In thisway the story travelled from poultry yard to poultry yard, and at lastcame back to the place from which it had really started."Five hens," it now ran, "have plucked out all their feathers toshow which of them had grown leanest for love of the cock, and thenthey all pecked at each other till the blood ran down and they felldown dead, to the derision and shame of their family, and to the greatloss of their owner."The hen who had lost the loose little feather naturally did notrecognise her own story, and being a respectable hen, said: "I despisethose fowls. but there are more of that kind. Such things ought not tobe concealed, and I will do my best to get the story into thepapers, so that it becomes known throughout the land. the hens haverichly deserved it, and their family too."It got into the papers, it was printed. and there is no doubtabout it, one little feather may easily grow into five hens.