There are many curious and miraculously unusual happenings and thingsin nature, of which no human understands how they occur or how they relateto other things, but they exist nonetheless. And when people hear storiesabout them, they are amazed and terrified, but they cannot comprehendthem. Thus it is with the Raven Stone, which many people talk about, butno one knows anything about with certainty. But it is known for sure thatRaven Stones exist.You have heard about Thieves' Lights. They are similar to the RavenStone and other invisible thieves' lanterns. It is gruesome to relate howThieves' Lights are obtained. They are the fingers of unborn, innocentlittle children. For these purposes the fingers of already born and baptized children cannot be used.And what sort of unborn little children are they? And how does oneobtain the lights? When a female thief or murderer hangs or drownsherself, or is hanged or beheaded, and she is carrying a child inside herbody, then you must go forth at midnight on the devil's roads, not onGod's roads, with incantations and magic, not with prayer and blessings,and you must take an axe or a knife that has been used by an executioner,and with it you must open up the poor sinner's belly, take out the child,cut off its fingers, and take them with you.But this absolutely must all be done at midnight in the most perfectsolitude and silence. Not even the softest sound, no "oh" and no sigh canescape the lips of the seeker. In this manner you obtain the lights, whichyou can burn whenever you want to. And however short they are, they willnever burn up, but will always remain the same length.These magic lights have the unusual nature and property that theyignite whenever and wherever their thievish owner wants them to. And theyextinguish themselves as fast as his wish and thought.With their help he can see everything, even in the densest and darkestnight, whenever and wherever he wants. But they shine only for him and forno one else. He himself remains invisible, even though they illuminateeverything else. Further, the horror within them gives them a mysteriouspower over sleep. In any room where they are lit a sleeper will snore sosoundly that one could set off ten thunderbolts over his head withoutwaking him. Just think how easy it is to steal things and carry them offunder these conditions!