There was once a woman who wanted to have quite a tiny, little child,but she did not know where to get one from. So one day she went to anold Witch and said to her: 'I should so much like to have a tiny, littlechild. can you tell me where I can get one?''Oh, we have just got one ready!' said the Witch. 'Here is a barley cornfor you, but it's not the kind the farmer sows in his field, or feedsthe cocks and hens with, I can tell you. Put it in a flower pot, andthen you will see something happen.''Oh, thank you!' said the woman, and gave the Witch a shilling, forthat was what it cost. Then she went home and planted the barley corn.immediately there grew out of it a large and beautiful flower, whichlooked like a tulip, but the petals were tightly closed as if it werestill only a bud.'What a beautiful flower!' exclaimed the woman, and she kissed the redand yellow petals. but as she kissed them the flower burst open. Itwas a real tulip, such as one can see any day. but in the middle of theblossom, on the green velvety petals, sat a little girl, quite tiny,trim, and pretty. She was scarcely half a thumb in height. so theycalled her Thumbelina. An elegant polished walnut shell servedThumbelina as a cradle, the blue petals of a violet were her mattress,and a rose leaf her coverlid. There she lay at night, but in theday time she used to play about on the table. here the woman had put abowl, surrounded by a ring of flowers, with their stalks in water, inthe middle of which floated a great tulip pedal, and on this Thumbelinasat, and sailed from one side of the bowl to the other, rowing herselfwith two white horse hairs for oars. It was such a pretty sight! Shecould sing, too, with a voice more soft and sweet than had ever beenheard before.One night, when she was lying in her pretty little bed, an old toadcrept in through a broken pane in the window. She was very ugly, clumsy,and clammy. she hopped on to the table where Thumbelina lay asleep underthe red rose leaf.'This would make a beautiful wife for my son,' said the toad, taking upthe walnut shell, with Thumbelina inside, and hopping with it throughthe window into the garden.There flowed a great wide stream, with slippery and marshy banks. herethe toad lived with her son. Ugh! how ugly and clammy he was, just likehis mother! 'Croak, croak, croak!' was all he could say when he saw thepretty little girl in the walnut shell.'Don't talk so load, or you'll wake her,' said the old toad. 'She mightescape us even now. she is as light as a feather. We will put her atonce on a broad water lily leaf in the stream. That will be quite anisland for her. she is so small and light. She can't run away from usthere, whilst we are preparing the guest chamber under the marsh whereshe shall live.'Outside in the brook grew many water lilies, with broad green leaves,which looked as if they were swimming about on the water.The leaf farthest away was the largest, and to this the old toad swamwith Thumbelina in her walnut shell.The tiny Thumbelina woke up very early in the morning, and when she sawwhere she was she began to cry bitterly. for on every side of the greatgreen leaf was water, and she could not get to the land.The old toad was down under the marsh, decorating her room withrushes and yellow marigold leaves, to make it very grand for her newdaughter in law. then she swam out with her ugly son to the leaf whereThumbelina lay. She wanted to fetch the pretty cradle to put it into herroom before Thumbelina herself came there. The old toad bowed low in thewater before her, and said: 'Here is my son. you shall marry him, andlive in great magnificence down under the marsh.''Croak, croak, croak!' was all that the son could say. Then they tookthe neat little cradle and swam away with it. but Thumbelina sat aloneon the great green leaf and wept, for she did not want to live with theclammy toad, or marry her ugly son. The little fishes swimming aboutunder the water had seen the toad quite plainly, and heard what she hadsaid. so they put up their heads to see the little girl. When they sawher, they thought her so pretty that they were very sorry she shouldgo down with the ugly toad to live. No. that must not happen. Theyassembled in the water round the green stalk which supported the leafon which she was sitting, and nibbled the stem in two. Away floated theleaf down the stream, bearing Thumbelina far beyond the reach of thetoad.On she sailed past several towns, and the little birds sitting in thebushes saw her, and sang, 'What a pretty little girl!' The leaf floatedfarther and farther away. thus Thumbelina left her native land.A beautiful little white butterfly fluttered above her, and atlast settled on the leaf. Thumbelina pleased him, and she, too,was delighted, for now the toads could not reach her, and it was sobeautiful where she was travelling. the sun shone on the water and madeit sparkle like the brightest silver. She took off her sash, and tiedone end round the butterfly. the other end she fastened to the leaf, sothat now it glided along with her faster than ever.A great cockchafer came flying past. he caught sight of Thumbelina, andin a moment had put his arms round her slender waist, and had flown offwith her to a tree. The green leaf floated away down the stream, andthe butterfly with it, for he was fastened to the leaf and could not getloose from it. Oh, dear! how terrified poor little Thumbelina was whenthe cockchafer flew off with her to the tree! But she was especiallydistressed on the beautiful white butterfly's account, as she had tiedhim fast, so that if he could not get away he must starve to death. Butthe cockchafer did not trouble himself about that. he sat down with heron a large green leaf, gave her the honey out of the flowers to eat, andtold her that she was very pretty, although she wasn't in the least likea cockchafer. Later on, all the other cockchafers who lived in the sametree came to pay calls. they examined Thumbelina closely, and remarked,'Why, she has only two legs! How very miserable!''She has no feelers!' cried another.'How ugly she is!' said all the lady chafers and yet Thumbelina wasreally very pretty.The cockchafer who had stolen her knew this very well. but when he heardall the ladies saying she was ugly, he began to think so too, and wouldnot keep her. she might go wherever she liked. So he flew down from thetree with her and put her on a daisy. There she sat and wept, becauseshe was so ugly that the cockchafer would have nothing to do with her.and yet she was the most beautiful creature imaginable, so soft anddelicate, like the loveliest rose leaf.The whole summer poor little Thumbelina lived alone in the great wood.She plaited a bed for herself of blades of grass, and hung it up under aclover leaf, so that she was protected from the rain. she gatheredhoney from the flowers for food, and drank the dew on the leaves everymorning. Thus the summer and autumn passed, but then came winter thelong, cold winter. All the birds who had sung so sweetly about her hadflown away. the trees shed their leaves, the flowers died. the greatclover leaf under which she had lived curled up, and nothing remained ofit but the withered stalk. She was terribly cold, for her clothes wereragged, and she herself was so small and thin. Poor little Thumbelina!she would surely be frozen to death. It began to snow, and everysnow flake that fell on her was to her as a whole shovelful thrown onone of us, for we are so big, and she was only an inch high. She wraptherself round in a dead leaf, but it was torn in the middle and gave herno warmth. she was trembling with cold.Just outside the wood where she was now living lay a great corn field.But the corn had been gone a long time. only the dry, bare stubble wasleft standing in the frozen ground. This made a forest for her to wanderabout in. All at once she came across the door of a field mouse, who hada little hole under a corn stalk. There the mouse lived warm and snug,with a store room full of corn, a splendid kitchen and dining room. Poorlittle Thumbelina went up to the door and begged for a little piece ofbarley, for she had not had anything to eat for the last two days.'Poor little creature!' said the field mouse, for she was a kind heartedold thing at the bottom. 'Come into my warm room and have some dinnerwith me.'As Thumbelina pleased her, she said: 'As far as I am concerned you mayspend the winter with me. but you must keep my room clean and tidy, andtell me stories, for I like that very much.'And Thumbelina did all that the kind old field mouse asked, and did itremarkably well too.'Now I am expecting a visitor,' said the field mouse. 'my neighbourcomes to call on me once a week. He is in better circumstances than Iam, has great, big rooms, and wears a fine black velvet coat. If youcould only marry him, you would be well provided for. But he is blind.You must tell him all the prettiest stories you know.'But Thumbelina did not trouble her head about him, for he was only amole. He came and paid them a visit in his black velvet coat.'He is so rich and so accomplished,' the field mouse told her.'His house is twenty times larger than mine. he possesses greatknowledge, but he cannot bear the sun and the beautiful flowers, andspeaks slightingly of them, for he has never seen them.'Thumbelina had to sing to him, so she sang 'Lady bird, lady bird, flyaway home!' and other songs so prettily that the mole fell in love withher. but he did not say anything, he was a very cautious man. A shorttime before he had dug a long passage through the ground from his ownhouse to that of his neighbour. in this he gave the field mouse andThumbelina permission to walk as often as they liked. But he begged themnot to be afraid of the dead bird that lay in the passage: it was a realbird with beak and feathers, and must have died a little time ago, andnow laid buried just where he had made his tunnel. The mole took a pieceof rotten wood in his mouth, for that glows like fire in the dark, andwent in front, lighting them through the long dark passage. When theycame to the place where the dead bird lay, the mole put his broad noseagainst the ceiling and pushed a hole through, so that the daylightcould shine down. In the middle of the path lay a dead swallow, hispretty wings pressed close to his sides, his claws and head drawn underhis feathers. the poor bird had evidently died of cold. Thumbelina wasvery sorry, for she was very fond of all little birds. they had sungand twittered so beautifully to her all through the summer. But the molekicked him with his bandy legs and said:'Now he can't sing any more! It must be very miserable to be a littlebird! I'm thankful that none of my little children are. birds alwaysstarve in winter.''Yes, you speak like a sensible man,' said the field mouse. 'What hasa bird, in spite of all his singing, in the winter time? He must starveand freeze, and that must be very pleasant for him, I must say!'Thumbelina did not say anything. but when the other two had passed onshe bent down to the bird, brushed aside the feathers from his head,and kissed his closed eyes gently. 'Perhaps it was he that sang to me soprettily in the summer,' she thought. 'How much pleasure he did give me,dear little bird!'The mole closed up the hole again which let in the light, and thenescorted the ladies home. But Thumbelina could not sleep that night.so she got out of bed, and plaited a great big blanket of straw, andcarried it off, and spread it over the dead bird, and piled uponit thistle down as soft as cotton wool, which she had found in thefield mouse's room, so that the poor little thing should lie warmlyburied.'Farewell, pretty little bird!' she said. 'Farewell, and thank you foryour beautiful songs in the summer, when the trees were green, and thesun shone down warmly on us!' Then she laid her head against the bird'sheart. But the bird was not dead: he had been frozen, but now that shehad warmed him, he was coming to life again.In autumn the swallows fly away to foreign lands. but there are some whoare late in starting, and then they get so cold that they drop down asif dead, and the snow comes and covers them over.Thumbelina trembled, she was so frightened. for the bird was very largein comparison with herself only an inch high. But she took courage,piled up the down more closely over the poor swallow, fetched her owncoverlid and laid it over his head.Next night she crept out again to him. There he was alive, but veryweak. he could only open his eyes for a moment and look at Thumbelina,who was standing in front of him with a piece of rotten wood in herhand, for she had no other lantern.'Thank you, pretty little child!' said the swallow to her. 'I am sobeautifully warm! Soon I shall regain my strength, and then I shall beable to fly out again into the warm sunshine.''Oh!' she said, 'it is very cold outside. it is snowing and freezing!stay in your warm bed. I will take care of you!'Then she brought him water in a petal, which he drank, after which herelated to her how he had torn one of his wings on a bramble, so that hecould not fly as fast as the other swallows, who had flown far awayto warmer lands. So at last he had dropped down exhausted, and then hecould remember no more. The whole winter he remained down there, andThumbelina looked after him and nursed him tenderly. Neither the molenor the field mouse learnt anything of this, for they could not bear thepoor swallow.When the spring came, and the sun warmed the earth again, the swallowsaid farewell to Thumbelina, who opened the hole in the roof for himwhich the mole had made. The sun shone brightly down upon her, and theswallow asked her if she would go with him. she could sit upon his back.Thumbelina wanted very much to fly far away into the green wood, butshe knew that the old field mouse would be sad if she ran away. 'No, Imustn't come!' she said.'Farewell, dear good little girl!' said the swallow, and flew off intothe sunshine. Thumbelina gazed after him with the tears standing in hereyes, for she was very fond of the swallow.'Tweet, tweet!' sang the bird, and flew into the green wood. Thumbelinawas very unhappy. She was not allowed to go out into the warm sunshine.The corn which had been sowed in the field over the field mouse's homegrew up high into the air, and made a thick forest for the poor littlegirl, who was only an inch high.'Now you are to be a bride, Thumbelina!' said the field mouse, 'for ourneighbour has proposed for you! What a piece of fortune for a poor childlike you! Now you must set to work at your linen for your dowry, fornothing must be lacking if you are to become the wife of our neighbour,the mole!'Thumbelina had to spin all day long, and every evening the mole visitedher, and told her that when the summer was over the sun would not shineso hot. now it was burning the earth as hard as a stone. Yes, when thesummer had passed, they would keep the wedding.But she was not at all pleased about it, for she did not like the stupidmole. Every morning when the sun was rising, and every evening when itwas setting, she would steal out of the house door, and when the breezeparted the ears of corn so that she could see the blue sky through them,she thought how bright and beautiful it must be outside, and longed tosee her dear swallow again. But he never came. no doubt he had flownaway far into the great green wood.By the autumn Thumbelina had finished the dowry.'In four weeks you will be married!' said the field mouse. 'don't beobstinate, or I shall bite you with my sharp white teeth! You will geta fine husband! The King himself has not such a velvet coat. Hisstore room and cellar are full, and you should be thankful for that.'Well, the wedding day arrived. The mole had come to fetch Thumbelinato live with him deep down under the ground, never to come out into thewarm sun again, for that was what he didn't like. The poor little girlwas very sad. for now she must say good bye to the beautiful sun.'Farewell, bright sun!' she cried, stretching out her arms towards it,and taking another step outside the house. for now the corn hadbeen reaped, and only the dry stubble was left standing. 'Farewell,farewell!' she said, and put her arms round a little red flower thatgrew there. 'Give my love to the dear swallow when you see him!''Tweet, tweet!' sounded in her ear all at once. She looked up. There wasthe swallow flying past! As soon as he saw Thumbelina, he was very glad.She told him how unwilling she was to marry the ugly mole, as then shehad to live underground where the sun never shone, and she could nothelp bursting into tears.'The cold winter is coming now,' said the swallow. 'I must fly away towarmer lands: will you come with me? You can sit on my back, and we willfly far away from the ugly mole and his dark house, over the mountains,to the warm countries where the sun shines more brightly than here,where it is always summer, and there are always beautiful flowers.Do come with me, dear little Thumbelina, who saved my life when I layfrozen in the dark tunnel!''Yes, I will go with you,' said Thumbelina, and got on the swallow'sback, with her feet on one of his outstretched wings. Up he flew intothe air, over woods and seas, over the great mountains where the snowis always lying. And if she was cold she crept under his warm feathers,only keeping her little head out to admire all the beautiful things inthe world beneath. At last they came to warm lands. there the sun wasbrighter, the sky seemed twice as high, and in the hedges hung thefinest green and purple grapes. in the woods grew oranges and lemons:the air was scented with myrtle and mint, and on the roads werepretty little children running about and playing with great gorgeousbutterflies. But the swallow flew on farther, and it became more andmore beautiful. Under the most splendid green trees besides a bluelake stood a glittering white marble castle. Vines hung about the highpillars. there were many swallows' nests, and in one of these lived theswallow who was carrying Thumbelina.'Here is my house!' said he. 'But it won't do for you to live with me. Iam not tidy enough to please you. Find a home for yourself in one of thelovely flowers that grow down there. now I will set you down, and youcan do whatever you like.''That will be splendid!' said she, clapping her little hands.There lay a great white marble column which had fallen to the groundand broken into three pieces, but between these grew the most beautifulwhite flowers. The swallow flew down with Thumbelina, and set her uponone of the broad leaves. But there, to her astonishment, she founda tiny little man sitting in the middle of the flower, as white andtransparent as if he were made of glass. he had the prettiest goldencrown on his head, and the most beautiful wings on his shoulders. hehimself was no bigger than Thumbelina. He was the spirit of the flower.In each blossom there dwelt a tiny man or woman. but this one was theKing over the others.'How handsome he is!' whispered Thumbelina to the swallow.The little Prince was very much frightened at the swallow, for incomparison with one so tiny as himself he seemed a giant. But when hesaw Thumbelina, he was delighted, for she was the most beautiful girl hehad ever seen. So he took his golden crown from off his head and put iton hers, asking her her name, and if she would be his wife, and thenshe would be Queen of all the flowers. Yes! he was a different kind ofhusband to the son of the toad and the mole with the black velvet coat.So she said 'Yes' to the noble Prince. And out of each flower came alady and gentleman, each so tiny and pretty that it was a pleasure tosee them. Each brought Thumbelina a present, but the best of all was abeautiful pair of wings which were fastened on to her back, and now shetoo could fly from flower to flower. They all wished her joy, and theswallow sat above in his nest and sang the wedding march, and that hedid as well as he could. but he was sad, because he was very fond ofThumbelina and did not want to be separated from her.'You shall not be called Thumbelina!' said the spirit of the flower toher. 'that is an ugly name, and you are much too pretty for that. Wewill call you May Blossom.''Farewell, farewell!' said the little swallow with a heavy heart, andflew away to farther lands, far, far away, right back to Denmark. Therehe had a little nest above a window, where his wife lived, who can tellfairy stories. 'Tweet, tweet!' he sang to her. And that is the way welearnt the whole story.