interest had the others listened. the stranger, in particular, seemedto be wrapt up in it: more than once he had drawn a deep sigh, andMuley looked as if he had had tears in his eyes. No one spoke for sometime after the recital."And hate you not the Unknown, who so basely cost you a noble memberof your body, and even put your life in danger?" inquired Selim."Perhaps there were hours at first," answered the Greek, "in which myheart accused him before God, of having brought this misfortune uponme, and embittered my life. but I found consolation in the religion ofmy fathers, which commanded me to love my enemies. Moreover, heprobably is more unhappy than myself.""You are a noble man!" exclaimed Selim, cordially pressing the hand ofthe Greek.The leader of the escort, however, here interrupted theirconversation. He came with a troubled air into the tent, and told themthat they could not give themselves up to repose, for this was theplace in which Caravans were usually attacked, and his guards imaginedthey had seen several horsemen in the distance.The merchants were confounded at this intelligence. Selim, thestranger, however, expressed wonder at their alarm, saying they wereso well escorted they need not fear a troop of Arabian robbers."Yes, sir," rejoined to him the leader of the guard. "were he only acommon outlaw, we could compose ourselves to rest without anxiety. butfor some time back, the frightful Orbasan has shown himself again, andit is well to be upon our guard."The stranger inquired who this Orbasan was, and Achmet, the oldmerchant, answered him: "Various rumors are current among the people with respect to thiswonderful man. Some hold him to be a supernatural being, because, withonly five or six men, he has frequently fallen upon a wholeencampment. others regard him as a bold Frenchman, whom misfortune hasdriven into this region: out of all this, however, thus much alone iscertain, that he is an abandoned robber and highwayman.""That can you not prove," answered Lezah, one of the merchants."Robber as he is, he is still a noble man, and such has he shownhimself to my brother, as I can relate to you. He has formed hiswhole band of well disciplined men, and as long as he marches throughthe desert, no other band ventures to show itself. Moreover, he robsnot as others, but only exacts a tribute from the caravans. whoeverwillingly pays this, proceeds without further danger, for Orbasan islord of the wilderness!"Thus did the travellers converse together in the tent. the guards,however, who were stationed around the resting place, began to becomeuneasy. A tolerably large band of armed horsemen showed themselves atthe distance of half a league. They appeared to be riding straight tothe encampment. one of the guard came into the tent, to inform themthat they would probably be attacked.The merchants consulted among themselves as to what they should do,whether to march against them, or await the attack. Achmet and the twoelder merchants inclined to the latter course. the fiery Muley,however, and Zaleukos desired the former, and summoned the stranger totheir assistance. He, however, quietly drew forth from his girdle alittle blue cloth spangled with red stars, bound it upon a lance,and commanded one of the slaves to plant it in front of the tent: hewould venture his life upon it, he said, that the horsemen, when theysaw this signal, would quietly march back again. Muley trusted not theresult. still the slave put out the lance in front of the tent.Meanwhile all in the camp had seized their weapons, and were lookingupon the horsemen in eager expectation. The latter, however, appearedto have espied the signal. they suddenly swerved from their directcourse towards the encampment, and, in a large circle, moved off tothe side.Struck with wonder, the travellers stood some moments, gazingalternately at the horsemen and the stranger. The latter stood infront of the tent quite indifferently, as though nothing had happened,looking upon the plain before him. At last Muley broke the silence."Who art thou, mighty stranger," he exclaimed, "that restrainest witha glance the wild hordes of the desert?""You rate my art higher than it deserves," answered Selim Baruch. "Iobserved this signal when I fled from captivity. what it means, I knownot only this much I know, that whoever travels with this sign, isunder great protection."The merchants thanked the stranger, and called him their preserver.indeed, the number of the robbers was so great, that the Caravan couldnot, probably, for any length of time, have offered an effectualresistance.With lighter hearts they now gave themselves to sleep. and when thesun began to sink, and the evening wind to pass over the sand plain,they struck their tents, and marched on. The next day they haltedsafely, only one day's journey from the entrance of the desert. Whenthe travellers had once more collected in the large tent, Lezah, themerchant, took up the discourse."I told you, yesterday, that the dreaded Orbasan was a noble man.permit me to prove it to you, to day, by the relation of my brother'sadventure. My father was Cadi of Acara. He had three children. I wasthe eldest, my brother and sister being much younger than myself. WhenI was twenty years old, a brother of my father took me under hisprotection. he made me heir to his property, on condition that Ishould remain with him until his death. He however had reached an oldage, so that before two years I returned to my native land, havingknown nothing, before, of the misfortune which had meanwhile fallenupon my family, and how Allah had turned it to advantage."