Once upon a time there lived a poor man who had more children thanbread to feed them with. However, they were strong and willing, and soonlearned to make themselves of use to their father and mother, and whenthey were old enough they went out to service, and everyone was veryglad to get them for servants, for they worked hard and were alwayscheerful. Out of all the ten or eleven, there was only one who gave hisparents any trouble, and this was a big lazy boy whose name was Tiidu.Neither scoldings nor beatings nor kind words had any effect on him, andthe older he grew the idler he got. He spent his winters crouching closeto a warm stove, and his summers asleep under a shady tree. and if hewas not doing either of these things he was playing tunes on his flute.One day he was sitting under a bush playing so sweetly that you mighteasily have mistaken the notes for those of a bird, when an old manpassed by. 'What trade do you wish to follow, my son?' he asked in afriendly voice, stopping as he did so in front of the youth.'If I were only a rich man, and had no need to work,' replied the boy,'I should not follow any. I could not bear to be anybody's servant, asall my brothers and sisters are.'The old man laughed as he heard this answer, and said: 'But I do notexactly see where your riches are to come from if you do not work forthem. Sleeping cats catch no mice. He who wishes to become rich mustuse either his hands or his head, and be ready to toil night and day, orelse 'But here the youth broke in rudely:'Be silent, old man! I have been told all that a hundred times over.and it runs off me like water off a duck's back. No one will ever make aworker out of me.''You have one gift,' replied the old man, taking no notice of thisspeech, 'and if you would only go about and play the pipes, you wouldeasily earn, not only your daily bread, but a little money into thebargain. Listen to me. get yourself a set of pipes, and learn to play onthem as well as you do on your flute, and wherever there are men to hearyou, I promise you will never lack money.''But where am I to get the pipes from?' asked the youth.'Blow on your flute for a few days,' replied the old man, 'and you willsoon be able to buy your pipes. By and by I will come back again and seeif you have taken my advice, and whether you are likely to grow rich.'And so saying he went his way.Tiidu stayed where he was a little longer, thinking of all the old manhad told him, and the more he thought the surer he felt that the oldman was right. He determined to try whether his plan would really bringluck. but as he did not like being laughed at he resolved not to tellanyone a word about it. So next morning he left home and never cameback! His parents did not take his loss much to heart, but were ratherglad that their useless son had for once shown a little spirit, and theyhoped that time and hardship might cure Tiidu of his idle folly.For some weeks Tiidu wandered from one village to another, and provedfor himself the truth of the old man's promise. The people he met wereall friendly and kind, and enjoyed his flute playing, giving him hisfood in return, and even a few pence. These pence the youth hoardedcarefully till he had collected enough to buy a beautiful pair of pipes.Then he felt himself indeed on the high road to riches. Nowhere couldpipes be found as fine as his, or played in so masterly a manner.Tiidu's pipes set everybody's legs dancing. Wherever there was amarriage, a christening, or a feast of any kind, Tiidu must be there, orthe evening would be a failure. In a few years he had become so noted apiper that people would travel far and wide to hear him.One day he was invited to a christening where many rich men from theneighbouring town were present, and all agreed that never in all theirlives had they heard such playing as his. They crowded round him, andpraised him, and pressed him to come to their homes, declaring that itwas a shame not to give their friends the chance of hearing such music.Of course all this delighted Tiidu, who accepted gladly, and left theirhouses laden with money and presents of every kind. one great lordclothed him in a magnificent dress, a second hung a chain of pearlsround his neck, while a third handed him a set of new pipes encrustedin silver. As for the ladies, the girls twisted silken scarves round hisplumed hat, and their mothers knitted him gloves of all colours, to keepout the cold. Any other man in Tiidu's place would have been contentedand happy in this life. but his craving for riches gave him no rest,and only goaded him day by day to fresh exertions, so that even his ownmother would not have known him for the lazy boy who was always lyingasleep in one place or the other.Now Tiidu saw quite clearly that he could only hope to become rich bymeans of his pipes, and set about thinking if there was nothing he coulddo to make the money flow in faster. At length he remembered havingheard some stories of a kingdom in the Kungla country, where musiciansof all sorts were welcomed and highly paid. but where it was, or howit was reached, he could not recollect, however hard he thought. Indespair, he wandered along the coast, hoping to see some ship or sailingboat that would take him where he wished to go, and at length he reachedthe town of Narva, where several merchantmen were lying at anchor. Tohis great joy, he found that one of them was sailing for Kungla in a fewdays, and he hastily went on board, and asked for the captain. But thecost of the passage was more than the prudent Tiidu cared to pay, andthough he played his best on his pipes, the captain refused to lower hisprice, and Tiidu was just thinking of returning on shore when his usualluck flew to his aid. A young sailor, who had heard him play, camesecretly to him, and offered to hide him on board, in the absence of thecaptain. So the next night, as soon as it was dark, Tiidu stepped softlyon deck, and was hidden by his friend down in the hold in a cornerbetween two casks. Unseen by the rest of the crew the sailor managed tobring him food and drink, and when they were well out of sight of landhe proceeded to carry out a plan he had invented to deliver Tiidufrom his cramped quarters. At midnight, while he was keeping watch andeveryone else was sleeping, the man bade his friend Tiidu follow him ondeck, where he tied a rope round Tiidu's body, fastening the other endcarefully to one of the ship's ropes. 'Now,' he said, 'I will throw youinto the sea, and you must shout for help. and when you see the sailorscoming untie the rope from your waist, and tell them that you have swumafter the ship all the way from shore.'At first Tiidu did not much like this scheme, for the sea ran high,but he was a good swimmer, and the sailor assured him that there was nodanger. As soon as he was in the water, his friend hastened to rousehis mates, declaring that he was sure that there was a man in the sea,following the ship. They all came on deck, and what was their surprisewhen they recognised the person who had bargained about a passage theprevious day with the captain.'Are you a ghost, or a dying man?' they asked him trembling, as theystooped over the side of the ship.'I shall soon indeed be a dead man if you do not help me,' answeredTiidu, 'for my strength is going fast.'Then the captain seized a rope and flung it out to him, and Tiidu heldit between his teeth, while, unseen by the sailors. he loosed the onetied round his waist.'Where have you come from?' said the captain, when Tiidu was brought upon board the ship.'I have followed you from the harbour,' answered he, 'and have beenoften in sore dread lest my strength should fail me. I hoped that byswimming after the ship I might at last reach Kungla, as I had no moneyto pay my passage.' The captain's heart melted at these words, and hesaid kindly: 'You may be thankful that you were not drowned. I will landyou at Kungla free of payment, as you are so anxious to get there. So hegave him dry clothes to wear, and a berth to sleep in, and Tiidu and hisfriend secretly made merry over their cunning trick.For the rest of the voyage the ship's crew treated Tiidu as somethinghigher than themselves, seeing that in all their lives they had nevermet with any man that could swim for as many hours as he had done. Thispleased Tiidu very much, though he knew that he had really done nothingto deserve it, and in return he delighted them by tunes on his pipes.When, after some days, they cast anchor at Kungla, the story of hiswonderful swim brought him many friends, for everybody wished to hearhim tell the tale himself. This might have been all very well, had notTiidu lived in dread that some day he would be asked to give proof ofhis marvellous swimming powers, and then everything would be found out.Meanwhile he was dazzled with the splendour around him, and more thanever he longed for part of the riches, about which the owners seemed tocare so little.He wandered through the streets for many days, seeking some one whowanted a servant. but though more than one person would have been gladto engage him, they seemed to Tiidu not the sort of people to help himto get rich quickly. At last, when he had almost made up his mind thathe must accept the next place offered him, he happened to knock at thedoor of a rich merchant who was in need of a scullion, and gladly agreedto do the cook's bidding, and it was in this merchant's house that hefirst learned how great were the riches of the land of Kungla. All thevessels which in other countries are made of iron, copper, brass, ortin, in Kungla were made of silver, or even of gold. The food was cookedin silver saucepans, the bread baked in a silver oven, while the dishesand their covers were all of gold. Even the very pigs' troughs were ofsilver too. But the sight of these things only made Tiidu more covetousthan before. 'What is the use of all this wealth that I have constantlybefore my eyes,' thought he, 'if none of it is mine? I shall never growrich by what I earn as a scullion, even though I am paid as much in amonth as I should get elsewhere in a year.'By this time he had been in his place for two years, and had put byquite a large sum of money. His passion of saving had increased to sucha pitch that it was only by his master's orders that he ever bought anynew clothes, 'For,' said the merchant, 'I will not have dirty people inmy house.' So with a heavy heart Tiidu spent some of his next month'swages on a cheap coat.One day the merchant held a great feast in honour of the christening ofhis youngest child, and he gave each of his servants a handsome garmentfor the occasion. The following Sunday, Tiidu, who liked fine clotheswhen he did not have to pay for them, put on his new coat, and went fora walk to some beautiful pleasure gardens, which were always full ofpeople on a sunny day. He sat down under a shady tree, and watched thepassers by, but after a little he began to feel rather lonely, for heknew nobody and nobody knew him. Suddenly his eyes fell on the figure ofan old man, which seemed familiar to him, though he could not tell whenor where he had seen it. He watched the figure for some time, till atlength the old man left the crowded paths, and threw himself on the softgrass under a lime tree, which stood at some distance from where Tiiduwas sitting. Then the young man walked slowly past, in order that hemight look at him more closely, and as he did so the old man smiled, andheld out his hand.'What have you done with your pipes?' asked he. and then in a momentTiidu knew him. Taking his arm he drew him into a quiet place and toldhim all that had happened since they had last met. The old man shook hishead as he listened, and when Tiidu had finished his tale, he said: 'Afool you are, and a fool you will always be! Was there ever such a pieceof folly as to exchange your pipes for a scullion's ladle? You couldhave made as much by the pipes in a day as your wages would have cometo in half a year. Go home and fetch your pipes, and play them here, andyou will soon see if I have spoken the truth.'Tiidu did not like this advice he was afraid that the people wouldlaugh at him. and, besides, it was long since he had touched hispipes but the old man persisted, and at last Tiidu did as he was told.'Sit down on the bank by me,' said the old man, when he came back, 'andbegin to play, and in a little while the people will flock round you.'Tiidu obeyed, at first without much heart. but somehow the tone of thepipes was sweeter than he had remembered, and as he played, the crowdceased to walk and chatter, and stood still and silent round him. Whenhe had played for some time he took off his hat and passed it round, anddollars, and small silver coins, and even gold pieces, came tumblingin. Tiidu played a couple more tunes by way of thanks, then turned togo home, hearing on all sides murmurs of 'What a wonderful piper! Comeback, we pray you, next Sunday to give us another treat.''What did I tell you?' said the old man, as they passed through thegarden gate. 'Was it not pleasanter to play for a couple of hours onthe pipes than to be stirring sauces all day long? For the second timeI have shown you the path to follow. try to learn wisdom, and take thebull by the horns, lest your luck should slip from you! I can be yourguide no longer, therefore listen to what I say, and obey me. Go everySunday afternoon to those gardens. and sit under the lime tree and playto the people, and bring a felt hat with a deep crown, and lay it on theground at your feet, so that everyone can throw some money into it.If you are invited to play at a feast, accept willingly, but beware ofasking a fixed price. say you will take whatever they may feel inclinedto give. You will get far more money in the end. Perhaps, some day,our paths may cross, and then I shall see how far you have followed myadvice. Till then, farewell'. and the old man went his way.As before, his words came true, though Tiidu could not at once dohis bidding, as he had first to fulfil his appointed time of service.Meanwhile he ordered some fine clothes, in which he played every Sundayin the gardens, and when he counted his gains in the evening they werealways more than on the Sunday before. At length he was free to do ashe liked, and he had more invitations to play than he could manage toaccept, and at night, when the citizens used to go and drink in the inn,the landlord always begged Tiidu to come and play to them. Thus he grewso rich that very soon he had his silver pipes covered with gold, sothat they glistened in the light of the sun or the fire. In all Kunglathere was no prouder man than Tiidu.In a few years he had saved such a large sum of money that he wasconsidered a rich man even in Kungla, where everybody was rich. And thenhe had leisure to remember that he had once had a home, and a family,and that he should like to see them both again, and show them how wellhe could play. This time he would not need to hide in the ship's hold,but could hire the best cabin if he wished to, or even have a vesselall to himself. So he packed all his treasures in large chests, and sentthem on board the first ship that was sailing to his native land, andfollowed them with a light heart. The wind at starting was fair, but itsoon freshened, and in the night rose to a gale. For two days they ranbefore it, and hoped that by keeping well out to sea they might be ableto weather the storm, when, suddenly, the ship struck on a rock, andbegan to fill. Orders were given to lower the boats, and Tiidu withthree sailors got into one of them, but before they could push away fromthe ship a huge wave overturned it, and all four were flung into thewater. Luckily for Tiidu an oar was floating near him, and with its helphe was able to keep on the surface of the water. and when the sun rose,and the mist cleared away, he saw that he was not far from shore. Byhard swimming, for the sea still ran high, he managed to reach it, andpulled himself out of the water, more dead than alive. Then he flunghimself down on the ground and fell fast asleep.When he awoke he got up to explore the island, and see if there were anymen upon it. but though he found streams and fruit trees in abundance,there was no trace either of man or beast. Then, tired with hiswanderings he sat down and began to think.For perhaps the first time in his life his thoughts did not instantlyturn to money. It was not on his lost treasures that his mind dwelt, buton his conduct to his parents: his laziness and disobedience as a boy.his forgetfulness of them as a man. 'If wild animals were to come andtear me to pieces,' he said to himself bitterly, 'it would be only whatI deserve! My gains are all at the bottom of the sea well! lightly won,lightly lost but it is odd that I feel I should not care for that ifonly my pipes were left me.' Then he rose and walked a little further,till he saw a tree with great red apples shining amidst the leaves,and he pulled some down, and ate them greedily. After that he stretchedhimself out on the soft moss and went to sleep.In the morning he ran to the nearest stream to wash himself, but to hishorror, when he caught sight of his face, he saw his nose had grown thecolour of an apple, and reached nearly to his waist. He started backthinking he was dreaming, and put up his hand. but, alas! the dreadfulthing was true. 'Oh, why does not some wild beast devour me?' he criedto himself. 'never, never, can I go again amongst my fellow men! If onlythe sea had swallowed me up, how much happier it had been for me!' Andhe hid his head in his hands and wept. His grief was so violent, that itexhausted him, and growing hungry he looked about for something to eat.Just above him was a bough of ripe, brown nuts, end he picked them andate a handful. To his surprise, as he was eating them, he felt his nosegrow shorter and shorter, and after a while he ventured to feel itwith his hand, and even to look in the stream again! Yes, there was nomistake, it was as short as before, or perhaps a little shorter. In hisjoy at this discovery Tiidu did a very bold thing. He took one of theapples out of his pocket, and cautiously bit a piece out of it. In aninstant his nose was as long as his chin, and in a deadly fear lestit should stretch further, he hastily swallowed a nut, and awaited theresult with terror. Supposing that the shrinking of his nose had onlybeen an accident before! Supposing that that nut and no other was ableto cause its shrinking! In that case he had, by his own folly, in notletting well alone, ruined his life completely. But, no! he had guessedrightly, for in no more time than his nose had taken to grow long did ittake to return to its proper size. 'This may make my fortune,' he saidjoyfully to himself. and he gathered some of the apples, which he putinto one pocket, and a good supply of nuts which he put into the other.Next day he wove a basket out of some rushes, so that if he ever leftthe island he might be able to carry his treasures about.That night he dreamed that his friend the old man appeared to him andsaid: 'Because you did not mourn for your lost treasure, but only foryour pipes, I will give you a new set to replace them.' And, behold! inthe morning when he got up a set of pipes was lying in the basket. Withwhat joy did he seize them and begin one of his favourite tunes. and ashe played hope sprang up in his heart, and he looked out to sea, to tryto detect the sign of a sail. Yes! there it was, making straight forthe island. and Tiidu, holding his pipes in his hand, dashed down to theshore.The sailors knew the island to be uninhabited, and were much surprisedto see a man standing on the beach, waving his arms in welcome to them.A boat was put off, and two sailors rowed to the shore to discover howhe came there, and if he wished to be taken away. Tiidu told them thestory of his shipwreck, and the captain promised that he should come onboard, and sail with them back to Kungla. and thankful indeed was Tiiduto accept the offer, and to show his gratitude by playing on his pipeswhenever he was asked to do so.They had a quick voyage, and it was not long before Tiidu found himselfagain in the streets of the capital of Kungla, playing as he went along.The people had heard no music like his since he went away, and theycrowded round him, and in their joy gave him whatever money they had intheir pockets. His first care was to buy himself some new clothes, whichhe sadly needed, taking care, however, that they should be made after aforeign fashion. When they were ready, he set out one day with a smallbasket of his famous apples, and went up to the palace. He did not haveto wait long before one of the royal servants passed by and bought allthe apples, begging as he did so that the merchant should return andbring some more. This Tiidu promised, and hastened away as if he had amad bull behind him, so afraid was he that the man should begin to eatan apple at once.It is needless to say that for some days he took no more apples back tothe palace, but kept well away on the other side of the town, wearingother clothes, and disguised by a long black beard, so that even his ownmother would not have known him.The morning after his visit to the castle the whole city was in anuproar about the dreadful misfortune that had happened to the RoyalFamily, for not only the king but his wife and children, had eaten ofthe stranger's apples, and all, so said the rumour, were very ill. Themost famous doctors and the greatest magicians were hastily summoned tothe palace, but they shook their heads and came away again. never hadthey met with such a disease in all the course of their experience.By and bye a story went round the town, started no one knew how, thatthe malady was in some way connected with the nose. and men rubbed theirown anxiously, to be sure that nothing catching was in the air.Matters had been in this state for more than a week when it reached theears of the king that a man was living in an inn on the other sideof the town who declared himself able to cure all manner of diseases.Instantly the royal carriage was commanded to drive with all speed andbring back this magician, offering him riches untold if he could restoretheir noses to their former length. Tiidu had expected this summons,and had sat up all night changing his appearance, and so well had hesucceeded that not a trace remained either of the piper or of the appleseller. He stepped into the carriage, and was driven post haste to theking, who was feverishly counting every moment, for both his nose andthe queen's were by this time more than a yard long, and they did notknow where they would stop.Now Tiidu thought it would not look well to cure the royal family bygiving them the raw nuts. he felt that it might arouse suspicion. So hehad carefully pounded them into a powder, and divided the powder up intosmall doses, which were to be put on the tongue and swallowed at once.He gave one of these to the king and another to the queen, and told themthat before taking them they were to get into bed in a dark room and notto move for some hours, after which they might be sure that they wouldcome out cured.The king's joy was so great at this news that he would gladly have givenTiidu half of his kingdom. but the piper was no longer so greedy ofmoney as he once was, before he had been shipwrecked on the island. Ifhe could get enough to buy a small estate and live comfortably on it forthe rest of his life, that was all he now cared for. However, the kingordered his treasure to pay him three times as much as he asked, andwith this Tiidu went down to the harbour and engaged a small ship tocarry him back to his native country. The wind was fair, and in ten daysthe coast, which he had almost forgotten, stood clear before him. Ina few hours he was standing in his old home, where his father, threesisters, and two brothers gave him a hearty welcome. His mother and hisother brothers had died some years before.When the meeting was over, he began to make inquiries about a smallestate that was for sale near the town, and after he had bought it thenext thing was to find a wife to share it with him. This did not takelong either. and people who were at the wedding feast declared that thebest part of the whole day was the hour when Tiidu played to them on thepipes before they bade each other farewell and returned to their homes.