disobey, and in a very bad temper stooped down over the well. It was notat all easy to fill the milk can, which was large and round. It wouldnot go down into the well, and the gypsy had to try again and again.At last her arms grew so tired that when she did manage to get thecan properly under the water she had no strength to pull it up, and itrolled to the bottom.On seeing the can disappear, she made such a miserable face that Zizi,who had been watching her all this time, burst into fits of laughter.Titty turned round and perceived the mistake she had made. and she feltso angry that she made up her mind to be revenged at once.'What are you doing there, you lovely creature?' she said to Zizi.'I am waiting for my lover,' Zizi replied. and then, with a simplicityquite natural in a girl who so lately had been a canary, she told allher story.The gypsy had often seen the young Prince pass by, with his gun on hisshoulder, when he was going after crows. She was too ugly and raggedfor him ever to have noticed her, but Titty on her side had admired him,though she thought he might well have been a little fatter.'Dear, dear!' she said to herself. 'So he likes yellow women! Why, I amyellow too, and if I could only think of a way  'It was not long before she did think of it.'What!' cried the sly Titty, 'they are coming with great pomp to fetchyou, and you are not afraid to show yourself to so many fine lords andladies with your hair down like that? Get down at once, my poor child,and let me dress your hair for you!'The innocent Zizi came down at once, and stood by Titty. The gypsy beganto comb her long brown locks, when suddenly she drew a pin from herstays, and, just as the titmouse digs its beak into the heads of linnetsand larks, Titty dug the pin into the head of Zizi.No sooner did Zizi feel the prick of the pin than she became a birdagain, and, spreading her wings, she flew away.'That was neatly done,' said the gypsy. 'The Prince will be clever ifhe finds his bride.' And, arranging her dress, she seated herself on thegrass to await Desire.