The DecameronTofano shuts his wife one night out of doors. who, not being able to persuade him to let her come in, pretends to throw herself into a well, by throwing a stone in. He runs thither to see, during which she enters, and, locking him out, abuses him well.There lived at Arezzo a certain rich man named Tofano, who had a very handsome woman for his wife, whose name was Madam Ghita, of whom all at once, and without knowing why, he became extremely jealous. This greatly vexed the lady, who would frequently demand of him his reasons for such a suspicion. and he being able to assign none, but such as were general, or nothing to the purpose, she resolved to plague him with the real evil, which hitherto had only been imaginary. And having observed that a certain young gentleman had taken particular notice of her, she encouraged him so far, that they only waited for a favorable opportunity to put their design into execution.Amongst the rest of her husband's bad qualities, he had taken a great delight, she saw, in drinking, which she not only seemed pleased with, but would persuade him to drink more. In this manner she used to make him drunk as often as she could, which afforded the first opportunity of being with her lover, and from that time they met continually by the same means. She depended indeed so much upon this drunken disposition of his, that she would not only bring her lover into her house, but even go and spend the greater part of the night along with him, his residence not being very far off.Continuing this way of life, the husband began to perceive that, whilst she encouraged him to drink in that manner, she scarcely tasted it herself, and from thence to suspect, as was really the case, that she made him drunk with a view only to her own private purposes, during the time of his being asleep. And being willing to have proof of this, he pretended once (without having drunk a drop all that day), both in his words and actions, to be the most disordered creature that could be. Which she perceiving, and thinking that he had then had a dose sufficient, and that he would sleep without any more liquor, straightway put him to bed.This was no sooner done, but she went as usual to her lover's house, where she stayed the best part of the night. Tofano finding his wife did not come to bed, got up, and bolted the door, and then went and sat in the window to wait for her coming home, that she might see he was acquainted with her way of going on. and continued there till her return. She, finding the door bolted, was exceedingly uneasy, and tried several times to force it open.Which after Tofano had suffered for some time, he said, "Madam, you give yourself trouble to no purpose, for here you shall not come. go back, if you please, for you shall enter no more within these doors, till I have showed you that respect, which these ways of yours require, before all your relations and neighbors."She then begged, for Heaven's sake, that he would open the door, saying, that she had not been where he imagined. but (as the evenings were long, and she able neither to sleep all the time, nor to sit up by herself) that she went to see a gentlewoman in the neighborhood. But all was to no purpose, he seemed resolved that the whole town should be witnesses of their shame, when otherwise they would have known nothing of the matter.The lady, finding her entreaties of no effect, had recourse to threats, and said, "Either open the door, or I will make you the most miserable man that ever was born."Tofano replied, "And which way will you do it?"She, whose wits were sharpened by love, continued, "Before I will suffer such a disgrace, as you mean wrongfully to fasten upon me, I will throw myself directly into this well, and being found there afterwards, everybody will conclude that you did it in one of your drunken fits. whence it must unavoidably happen, that you be either obliged to fly your country, and lose all your effects. or else that you be put to death, as having murdered your wife."This, however, had no effect upon him. when she said, "I can no longer bear all your scorn. God forgive you for being the cause of my death!" and the night being so dark that they could scarcely see one another, she ran towards the well, and taking up a great stone that lay by the well side, and crying aloud, "God forgive this act of mine!" she let it fall into the well.The stone made a great noise when it came to the water, which Tofano hearing, firmly believed that she had thrown herself in, and taking the rope and bucket, he ran out to help her.But she, who stood concealed by the side of the door, seeing him go towards the well, got into the house, and made all fast, whilst she went to the window, and began to say to him, "Why, husband, you should use water whilst you are drinking and not after you have made yourself drunk."Tofano, seeing her laugh at him, returned, and finding the door bolted, begged of her to open it.But she now changed her note, and began to cry out, "You drunken, sorry, troublesome wretch! you shall not come in here tonight. I can no longer bear with your evil practices. I will let all the world know what sort of a person you are, and what hours you keep."Tofano, on the other part, being grievously provoked, used all the bad language he could think of, and made a most terrible mutiny. Upon which the neighbors were all raised out of their beds. and coming to their windows, inquired what was the matter.When she began to lament and say, "It is this wicked man, who is coming home drunk at all hours of the night, which, having endured a long time, and said a great deal to no purpose, I was now willing to try if I could not shame him out of it by locking him out."Tofano, on the contrary, told them how the matter was. and threatened her very much.She then said to the neighbors, "Now you see what sort of a man he is. what would you say if I went in the street, and he within doors, as I am? Then you might think he was in the right. Take notice, I beseech you, how artful he is. he says I have done that which he seems to have done himself, and talks something about the well. but I wish he was in, that he might have some water as well as wine."The neighbors all joined in blaming Tofano, deeming him the person in fault, and giving him many hard words for his usage of his wife. and the thing was noised about the city, till her relations heard of it, who came thither in a body. and inquiring of one neighbor and another neighbor how it was, they took Tofano and beat him very severely. Afterwards they went into the house, and carried the lady away with them, with all that was hers, threatening Tofano with further punishment. Whilst he, finding the ill effects of his jealousy, and still having a regard for his wife, got some friends to intercede with her to come home again, promising never more to be jealous, and giving her leave for the future to do as she would. Thus, like a simple knave, he was glad to purchase peace, after having been to the last degree injured.