The son of a farmer on Drws Coed farm was one foggy day looking after hisfather's sheep, when crossing a marshy meadow he beheld a little ladybehind some rising ground. She had yellow hair, blue eyes and rosy cheeks.He approached her, and asked permission to converse. whereupon she smiledsweetly and said to him, "Idol of my hopes, you have come at last!"They there and then began to "keep company," and met each other daily hereand there along the farm meadows. His intentions were honorable. hedesired her to marry him. He was sometimes absent for days together, noone knew where, and his friends whispered about that he had been witched.Around the Turf Lake (Llyn y Dywarchen) was a grove of trees, and underone of these one day the fairy promised to be his. The consent of herfather was now necessary. One moonlight night an appointment was made tomeet in this wood. The father and daughter did not appear till the moonhad disappeared behind the hill. Then they both came. The fairy fatherimmediately gave his consent to the marriage, on one condition, namely,that her future husband should never hit her with iron."If ever thou dost touch her flesh with iron she shall be no more thine,but she shall return to her own."They were married   a good looking pair. Large sums of money were broughtby her, the night before the wedding, to Drws Coed. The shepherd ladbecame wealthy, had several handsome children, and they were very happy.After some years, they were one day out riding, when her horse sank in adeep mire, and by the assistance of her husband, in her hurry to remount,she was struck on her knee by the stirrup of the saddle. Immediatelyvoices were heard singing on the brow of the hill, and she disappeared,leaving all her children behind.She and her mother devised a plan by which she could see her beloved, butas she was not allowed to walk the earth with man, they floated a largeturf on the lake, and on this turf she stood for hours at a time holdingconverse with her husband. This continued until his death.