Minor punctuation errors have been corrected without note. There issome archaic spelling in this text, which has been retained as printed,for example, pedler, phrensy, wo, etc. The single oe ligature has notbeen retained.The author dedication at the beginning of the book appears exactly asprinted in the original, although it appears that there is some textmissing from the start of it.The following amendments have been made:Page 101 thus amended to this "... only this much Iknow, that whoever ..."Page 136 Nourmahal amended to Nurmahal "... and askedwhere Nurmahal and Mirza were."Page 188 Saaud amended to Saoud "The old prince wasSaoud, sultan of the Wechabites."Page 204 sheers amended to shears "... and pinched himwith sharp shears, until he sank down, ..."s have been moved slightly where they were previouslylocated in the middle of a paragraph. The frontispiece illustrationhas been moved to follow the title page.Advertising material has been moved to the end of the text.JEWISH FAIRY TALES AND LEGENDSThe Palace of the EaglesEast of the Land of the Rising Sun there dwelled a king who spent allhis days and half his nights in pleasure. His kingdom was on the edgeof the world, according to the knowledge of those times, and almostentirely surrounded by the sea. Nobody seemed to care what lay beyondthe barrier of rocks that shut off the land from the rest of theworld. For the matter of that, nobody appeared to trouble much aboutanything in that kingdom.Most of the people followed the example of the king and led idle,careless lives, giving no thought to the future. The king regarded thetask of governing his subjects as a big nuisance. he did not care tobe worried with proposals concerning the welfare of the masses, anddocuments brought to him by his advisors for signature were neverread. For aught he knew they may have referred to the schoolregulations of the moon, instead of the laws of trading and such likepublic matters."Don't bother me," was his usual remark. "You are my advisors andofficers of state. Deal with affairs as you think best."And off he would go to his beloved hunting which was his favoritepastime.The land was fertile, and nobody had ever entertained an idea that badweather might some year affect the crops and cause a scarcity ofgrain. They took no precautions to lay in stocks of wheat, and so whenone summer there was a great lack of rain and the fields were parched,the winter that followed was marked by suffering. The kingdom wasfaced by famine, and the people did not like it. They did not knowwhat to do, and when they appealed to the king, he could not helpthem. Indeed, he could not understand the difficulty. He passed it offvery lightly."I am a mighty hunter," he said. "I can always kill enough beasts toprovide a sufficiency of food."But the drought had withered away the grass and the trees, and theshortage of such food had greatly reduced the number of animals. Theking found the forests empty of deer and birds. Still he failed torealize the gravity of the situation and what he considered anexceedingly bright idea struck him."I will explore the unknown territory beyond the barrier of rockyhills," he said. "Surely there will I find a land of plenty. And, atleast" he added, "it will be a pleasant adventure with good hunting."A great expedition was therefore arranged, and the king and hishunting companions set forth to find a path over the rocks. This wasnot at all difficult, and on the third day, a pass was discoveredamong the crags and peaks that formed the summit of the barrier, andthe king saw the region beyond.It seemed a vast and beautiful land, stretching away as far as the eyecould see in a forest of huge trees. Carefully, the hunters descendedthe other side of the rock barrier and entered the unknown land.It seemed uninhabited. Nor was there any sign of beast or bird of anykind. No sound disturbed the stillness of the forest, no tracks werevisible. As well as the hunters could make out, no foot had evertrodden the region before. Even nature seemed at rest. The trees wereall old, their trunks gnarled into fantastic shapes, their leavesyellow and sere as if growth had stopped ages ago.Altogether the march through the forest was rather eerie, and thehunters proceeded in single file, which added to the impressiveness ofthe strange experience. The novelty, however, made it pleasant to theking, and he kept on his way for four days.Then the forest ended abruptly, and the explorers came to a vast openplain, a desert, through which a wide river flowed. Far beyond rose amountain capped by rocks of regular shape. At any rate, they appearedto be rocks, but the distance was too great to enable anyone to speakwith certainty."Water," said the vizier, "is a sign of life."So the king decided to continue as far as the mountain. A ford wasdiscovered in the river, and once on the other side it was possible tomake out the rocks crowning the mountain. They looked too regular tobe mere rocks, and on approaching nearer the king was sure that a hugebuilding must be at the top of the mountain. When they arrived quiteclose, there was no doubt about it. Either a town, or a palace, stoodon the summit, and it was decided to make the ascent next day.During the night no sound was heard, but to everybody's surprise adistinct path up the mountain was noticed in the morning. It was soovergrown with weeds and moss and straggling creepers that it wasobvious it had not been used for a long time. The ascent wasaccordingly difficult, but half way up the first sign of life, noticedsince the expedition began, made itself visible.It was an eagle. Suddenly it flew down from the mountain top andcircled above the hunters, screaming, but making no attempt to attack.At length the summit was gained. It was a flat plateau of greatexpanse, almost the whole of which was covered by an enormous buildingof massive walls and stupendous towers."This is the palace of a great monarch," said the king.But no entrance of any kind could be seen. The rest of the day wasspent in wandering round, but nowhere was a door, or window, oropening visible. It was decided to make a more serious effort nextmorning to gain entry.However, it seemed a greater puzzle than ever. At length, one of themost venturesome of the party discovered an eagle's nest on one of thesmallest towers, and with great difficulty he secured the bird andbrought it down to the king. His majesty bade one of his wise men,Muflog, learned in bird languages, to speak to it. He did so.In a harsh croaking voice, the eagle replied, "I am but a young bird,only seven centuries old. I know naught. On a tower higher than thaton which I dwell, is the eyrie of my father. He may be able to giveyou information."More he would not say. The only thing to do was to climb the highertower and question the father eagle. This was done, and the birdanswered:"On a tower still higher dwells my father, and on yet a higher towermy grandfather, who is two thousand years old. He may know something.I know nothing."After considerable difficulty the topmost tower was reached and thevenerable bird discovered. He seemed asleep and was only awakenedafter much coaxing. Then he surveyed the hunters warily."Let me see, let me think," he muttered slowly. "I did hear, when Iwas a tiny eagle chick, but a few years old that was long, longago that my great grandfather had said that his great grandfather hadtold him he had heard that long, long, long ago oh, ever so muchlonger than that a king lived in this palace. that he died and leftit to the eagles. and that in the course of many, many, many thousandsof years the door had been covered up by the dust brought by thewinds.""Where is the door?" asked Muflog.That was a puzzle the ancient bird could not answer readily. Hethought and thought and fell asleep and had to be kept being awakeneduntil at last he remembered."When the sun shines in the morning," he croaked, "its first ray fallson the door."Then, worn out with all his thinking and talking, he fell asleepagain.There was no rest for the party that night. They all watched to makecertain of seeing the first ray of the rising sun strike the palace.When it did so, the spot was carefully noted. But no door could beseen. Digging was therefore begun and after many hours, an opening wasfound.Through this an entrance was effected into the palace. What awonderful and mysterious place it was, all overgrown with the weeds ofcenturies! Tangled masses of creepers lay everywhere over what wereonce trimly kept pathways, and almost completely hiding the lowerbuildings. In the crevices of the walls, roots had insinuatedthemselves, and by their growth had forced the stones apart. It wasall a terrible scene of desolation. The king's men had to hack a waylaboriously through the wilderness of weeds with their swords to thecentral building, and when they did so they came to a door on whichwas an inscription cut deep into the wood. The language was unknown toall but Muflog, who deciphered it as follows:"We, the Dwellers in this Palace, lived for many years inComfort and Luxury. Then Hunger came. We had made nopreparation. We had amassed jewels in abundance but not Corn. Weground Pearls and Rubies to fine flour, but could make no Bread.Wherefore we die, bequeathing this Palace to the eagles who willdevour our bodies and build their eyries on our towers."A dread silence fell on the whole party when Muflog read these strangewords, and the king turned pale. This warning from the dead past wasmaking the adventure far from enjoyable. Some of the party suggestedthe immediate abandonment of the expedition and the prompt returnhome. They feared hidden dangers now. But the king remained resolute."I must investigate this to the end," he said in a firm voice. "Thosewho are seized by fear may return. I will go on, if needs be, alone."Encouraged by these words, the hunters decided to remain with theking. One of them began to batter at the door, but the king wasanxious to preserve the inscription, and after more cutting away ofweeds, the key was seen to be sticking in the keyhole. Unlocking thedoor, however, was no light task, for ages of rust had accumulated.When finally this was accomplished the door creaked heavily on itshinges and a musty smell came from the dank corridor that wasrevealed.The explorers walked ankle deep in dust through a maze of rooms untilthey came to a big central hall of statues. So artistically fashionedwere they that they seemed lifelike in their attitudes, and for amoment all held their breath. This hall was dustless, and Muflogpointed out that it was an airtight chamber. Evidently it had beenspecifically devised to preserve the statues."These must be the effigies of kings," said his majesty, and onreading the inscriptions, Muflog said that was so.At the far end of the hall, on a pedestal higher than the others, wasa statue bigger than the rest. In addition to the name there was aninscription on the pedestal. Muflog read it amid an awed stillness:"I am the last of the kings yea, the last of men, and with myown hands have completed this work. I ruled over a thousandcities, rode on a thousand horses, and received the homage of athousand vassal princes. but when Famine came I was powerless.Ye who may read this, take heed of the fate that has overwhelmedthis land. Take but one word of counsel from the last of themortals. prepare thy meal while the daylight lasts "The words broke off: the rest was undecipherable."Enough," cried the king, and his voice was not steady. "This hasindeed been good hunting. I have learned, in my folly and pursuit ofpleasure, what I had failed to see for myself. Let us return and actupon the counsel of this king who has met the end that will surely beour own should we forget his warning."Looking out across the plain they had traversed, his majesty seemed tosee a vision of prosperous cities and smiling fertile fields. Inimagination, he saw caravans laden with merchandise journeying acrossthe intervening spaces. Then, as darker thoughts followed, a cloudappeared to settle over the whole land. The cities crumbled anddisappeared, the eagles swooped down and took possession of that whichman had failed to appreciate and hold. and after the eagles the dustof the ages settled slowly, piling itself up year by year untileverything was covered and only the desert was visible.Scarcely a word was spoken as the king and his hunters made their wayback to the land East of the Rising Sun. In all, they had been awayforty days when they re crossed the barrier of rocks. They werejoyously welcomed."What have you brought," asked the populace. "In a little while weshall be starving.""Ye shall not starve," said the king. "I have brought wisdom from thePalace of the Eagles. From the fate and sufferings of others I havelearned a lesson my duty."At once he set to work to organize the proper distribution of the foodsupply and the cultivation of the land. He wasted no more time onfoolish pleasures, and in due course the land East of the Rising Sunenjoyed happiness and prosperity and even established fruitfulcolonies in the plain overlooked by the Palace of the Eagles.(: Og, riding gaily on the unicorn behind the Ark,was quite happy. (_Page 30_).)