Once upon a time there was a king who was so very learned that noparson in the whole world could surpass him. In fact, he was so learnedthat ordinary folks could hardly understand what he said, nor could heunderstand them either. But in order to have someone to talk with, heprocured seven wise professors, who were not quite so learned as himself,but who were just able to interpret his learned sayings, so that peoplecould apprehend them, and who could twist and turn about the talk ofordinary folk so that it became sufficiently learned and complicated forthe king to understand it.The king had no son, but he had a daughter, and in order that sheshould be happily married, and the country governed according to thefundamental principles of his learning, he issued an edict that he who wasso learned as to put the king and his professors to silence should havehis daughter and half the kingdom there and then. But anyone who attemptedthe task and did not succeed, should lose his head for having dared toexchange words with the king.That was no joke. But the princess was so fair and beautiful that itwas no joke to gaze at her either. And the king did not keep her caged up,for anyone who wished could see her.There came princes and counts and barons and parsons and doctors, andlearned persons from all quarters of the world. And no sooner did they seethe princess than they one and all wanted to try their luck. But, howeverlearned they were, their learning never proved sufficient, and every oneof them lost his head.Over in a corner of the kingdom there lived a farmer, who had a son.This lad was not stupid. He was quick of apprehension and sharp witted,and he was not afraid of anything.When the king's edict came to this out of the way place, and the parsonhad read it from the pulpit, the lad wanted to try his luck. "He whonothing risks, nothing wins," thought the lad. And so he went to theparson and told him that if he would give him lessons in the evenings, hewould work for the parson in the daytime, but he wanted to become solearned that he could try a bout with the king and his professors."Whoever means to compete with them must be able to do something morethan munch bread," said the parson."That may be," said the lad, "but I'll try my luck."The parson thought, of course, that he was mad, but when he could getsuch a clever hand to work for him only for his keep, he thought he couldnot very well say no. And so the lad got what he wanted. He worked for theparson in the daytime, and the parson read with him in the evening. And inthis way they went on for some time, but at last the lad grew tired of hisbook."I am not going to sit here and read and grind away, and lose what fewwits I have," he said. "And it won't be of much help either, for if youare lucky things will come right of themselves, and if you are not luckyyou'll never make a silk purse out of a sow's ear."And with this he pitched the books on the shelf and went his way.All at once he came to a large forest, where the trees and bushes wereso thick that it was with difficulty he could get along. While he was thuspushing his way through, he began wondering what he should say when hecame to the king's palace, and how best he could make use of the learninghe had picked up from the parson. All of a sudden the twig of a treestruck him across his mouth, so that his teeth rattled."That is Twigmuntus," he said.A little while after he came to a meadow, where a cow was standing,bellowing so furiously that it almost deafened him."That is Cowbelliantus," he said.He then came to a river, but as there was neither bridge nor planksacross it, he had to put his clothes on his head and swim across. While hewas swimming a perch came and bit him on the nose."That is Perchnosius," he said.At last he came to the king's palace, where things did not look at allpleasant, for there were men's heads stuck on long stakes round about, andthey grinned so horribly that they were enough to frighten anyone out ofhis wits. But the lad was not easily frightened."God's peace!" he said, and raised his cap. "There you stick and grinat me. but who knows if I may not be keeping you company before the day isover, and be grinning with you at others? But if I happen to be alive, youshall not stick there any longer gaping at people," he said.So he went up to the palace and knocked at the gate. The guard came outand asked what he wanted."I have come to try my luck with the princess," said the lad."You?" said the guard. "Well, you're a likely one, you are! Have youlost your senses? There have been princes and counts and barons andparsons and doctors and learned persons here, and all of them have had topay with their heads for that pleasure. and yet you think you'll succeed!"he said."I should say it is no concern of yours," said the lad. "Just open thegate, and you'll see one who's not afraid of anything."But the guard would not let him in."Do as I tell you," said the lad, "or there'll be a fine to do!"But the guard would not.The lad then seized him by the collar and flung him against the wall,so that it creaked. And then he walked straight in to the king, who sat inhis parlor with all his seven professors about him. Their faces were longand thin, and they looked like puny sickly persons about to die. They weresitting with their heads on one side meditating and staring at the floor.Then one of them, who looked up, asked the lad in ordinary language, "Whoare you?""A suitor," said the lad."Do you want to try for the princess's hand?""Well, that's about it!" said the lad."Have you lost your wits? There have been princes and counts and baronsand parsons and doctors and learned persons here, and all of them havegone headless away. So you had better turn about and get away while yourhead is on your shoulders," he said."Don't trouble yourself on that account, but rather think of the headon your own shoulders," said the lad. "You look after yours, and I'll takecare of mine! So just begin, and let me hear how much wit you have got,for I don't think you look so very clever," he said.The first professor then began a long harangue of gibberish. And whenhe had finished the second went on. And then the third. And in this waythey continued till at length it was the turn of the seventh. The lad didnot understand a single word of it all, but he didn't lose courage for allthat. He only nodded his approval to all of it.When the last had finished his harangue he asked, "Can you reply tothat?""That's easy enough," said the lad. "Why, when I was in my cradle andin my go cart I could twist my mouth about and prate and jabber like you,"he said. "But since you are so terribly learned, I'll put a question toyou, and that shall not be a long one: Twigmuntus, Cowbelliantus,Perchnosius? Can you give me an answer to that?"And now you should have seen how they stretched their necks andstrained their ears. They put on their spectacles and began to look intotheir books and turn over the leaves.But while they were searching and meditating, the lad put his hands inhis trouser pockets, and looked so frank and fearless that they could nothelp admiring him, and wondering that one who was so young could be solearned and yet look just like other people."Well, how are you getting on?" said the lad. "Cannot all your learninghelp you to open your mouths, so that I can have an answer to myquestion?" he said.Then they began to ponder and meditate, and then they glanced at theceiling, and then they stared at the walls, and then they fixed their eyesupon the floor. But they could not give him any answer, nor could the kinghimself, although he was much more learned than all the others together.They had to give it up, and the lad got the princess and half the kingdom.This he ruled in his own way, and if it did not fare better, it did notfare worse for him than for the king with all his fundamentalprinciples.