On one of the Danish islands, where old Thingstones, the seatsof justice of our forefathers, still stand in the cornfields, and hugetrees rise in the forests of beech, there lies a little town whose lowhouses are covered with red tiles. In one of these houses strangethings were brewing over the glowing coals on the open hearth. therewas a boiling going on in glasses, and a mixing and distilling,while herbs were being cut up and pounded in mortars. An elderly manlooked after it all."One must only do the right thing," he said. "yes, the right thecorrect thing. One must find out the truth concerning everycreated particle, and keep to that."In the room with the good housewife sat her two sons. they werestill small, but had great thoughts. Their mother, too, had alwaysspoken to them of right and justice, and exhorted them to keep tothe truth, which she said was the countenance of the Lord in thisworld.The elder of the boys looked roguish and enterprising. He took adelight in reading of the forces of nature, of the sun and the moon.no fairy tale pleased him so much. Oh, how beautiful it must be, hethought, to go on voyages of discovery, or to find out how toimitate the wings of birds and then to be able to fly! Yes, to findthat out was the right thing. Father was right, and mother wasright truth holds the world together.The younger brother was quieter, and buried himself entirely inhis books. When he read about Jacob dressing himself in sheep skins topersonify Esau, and so to usurp his brother's birthright, he wouldclench his little fist in anger against the deceiver. when he readof tyrants and of the injustice and wickedness of the world, tearswould come into his eyes, and he was quite filled with the thoughtof the justice and truth which must and would triumph.One evening he was lying in bed, but the curtains were not yetdrawn close, and the light streamed in upon him. he had taken his bookinto bed with him, for he wanted to finish reading the story of Solon.His thoughts lifted and carried him away a wonderful distance. itseemed to him as if the bed had become a ship flying along underfull sail. Was he dreaming, or what was happening? It glided overthe rolling waves and across the ocean of time, and to him came thevoice of Solon. spoken in a strange tongue, yet intelligible to him,he heard the Danish motto: "By law the land is ruled."The genius of the human race stood in the humble room, bent downover the bed and imprinted a kiss on the boy's forehead: "Be thoustrong in fame and strong in the battle of life! With truth in thyheart fly toward the land of truth!"The elder brother was not yet in bed. he was standing at thewindow looking out at the mist which rose from the meadows. Theywere not elves dancing out there, as their old nurse had told him.he knew better they were vapours which were warmer than the air,and that is why they rose. A shooting star lit up the sky, and theboy's thoughts passed in a second from the vapours of the earth upto the shining meteor. The stars gleamed in the heavens, and it seemedas if long golden threads hung down from them to the earth."Fly with me," sang a voice, which the boy heard in his heart. Andthe mighty genius of mankind, swifter than a bird and than anarrow swifter than anything of earthly origin carried him out intospace, where the heavenly bodies are bound together by the rays thatpass from star to star. Our earth revolved in the thin air, and thecities upon it seemed to lie close to each other. Through thespheres echoed the words:"What is near, what is far, when thou art lifted by the mightygenius of mind?"And again the boy stood by the window, gazing out, whilst hisyounger brother lay in bed. Their mother called them by their names:"Anders Sandoe" and "Hans Christian."Denmark and the whole world knows them the two brothers Oersted.