Have you ever seen a maiden? I mean what our pavers call a maiden,a thing with which they ram down the paving stones in the roads. Amaiden of this kind is made altogether of wood, broad below, andgirt round with iron rings. At the top she is narrow, and has astick passed across through her waist, and this stick forms the armsof the maiden.In the shed stood two Maidens of this kind. They had their placeamong shovels, hand carts, wheelbarrows, and measuring tapes. and toall this company the news had come that the Maidens were no longerto be called "maidens," but "hand rammers," which word was thenewest and the only correct designation among the pavers for the thingwe all know from the old times by the name of "the maiden."Now, there are among us human creatures certain individuals whoare known as "emancipated women," as, for instance, principals ofinstitutions, dancers who stand professionally on one leg,milliners, and sick nurses. and with this class of emancipated womenthe two Maidens in the shed associated themselves. They were "maidens"among the paver folk, and determined not to give up this honorableappellation, and let themselves be miscalled "rammers."Maiden is a human name, but hand rammer is a thing, and wewon't be called things that's insulting us.""My lover would be ready to give up his engagement," said theyoungest, who was betrothed to a paver's hammer. and the hammer is thething which drives great piles into the earth, like a machine, andtherefore does on a large scale what ten maidens effect in a similarway. "He wants to marry me as a maiden, but whether he would have mewere I a hand rammer is a question, so I won't have my name changed.""And I," said the elder one, "would rather have both my armsbroken off."But the Wheelbarrow was of a different opinion. and theWheelbarrow was looked upon as of some consequence, for heconsidered himself a quarter of a coach, because he went about uponone wheel."I must submit to your notice," he said, "that the name 'maiden'is common enough, and not nearly so refined as 'hand rammer,' or'stamper,' which latter has also been proposed, and through whichyou would be introduced into the category of seals. and only thinkof the great stamp of state, which impresses the royal seal that giveseffect to the laws! No, in your case I would surrender my maidenname.""No, certainly not!" exclaimed the elder. "I am too old for that.""I presume you have never heard of what is called 'Europeannecessity?'" observed the honest Measuring Tape. "One must be ableto adapt one's self to time and circumstances, and if there is a lawthat the 'maiden' is to be called 'hand rammer,' why, she must becalled 'hand rammer,' and no pouting will avail, for everything hasits measure.""No. if there must be a change," said the younger, "I shouldprefer to be called 'Missy,' for that reminds one a little ofmaidens.""But I would rather be chopped to chips," said the elder.At last they all went to work. The Maidens rode that is, theywere put in a wheelbarrow, and that was a distinction. but stillthey were called "hand rammers.""Mai !" they said, as they were bumped upon the pavement."Mai !" and they were very nearly pronouncing the whole word "maiden."but they broke off short, and swallowed the last syllable. for aftermature deliberation they considered it beneath their dignity toprotest. But they always called each other "maiden," and praised thegood old days in which everything had been called by its right name,and those who were maidens were called maidens. And they remained asthey were. for the hammer really broke off his engagement with theyounger one, for nothing would suit him but he must have a maidenfor his bride.