I (Scott's source) was prevailed upon myself to go and see a child, who,they told me, was one of these changelings, and, indeed, must own, wasnot a little surprised, as well as shocked, at the sight. Nothing underheaven could have a more beautiful face. but, though between five and sixyears old, and seemingly healthy, he was so far from being able to walkor stand, that he could not so much as move any one joint. his limbs werevastly long for his age, but smaller than any infant's of six months. hiscomplexion was perfectly delicate, and he had the finest hair in theworld. He never spoke nor cried, ate scarce anything, and was veryseldom seen to smile. but if anyone called him a fairy elf, hewould frown, and fix his eyes so earnestly on those who said it, as if hewould look them through.His mother, or at least his supposed mother, being very poor, frequentlywent out a charring, and left him a whole day together. The neighbors,out of curiosity, have often looked in at the window, to see how hebehaved while alone. which, whenever they did, they were sure to find himlaughing, and in the utmost delight. This made them judge that he wasnot without company, more pleasing to him than any mortals could be. andwhat made this conjecture seem the more reasonable, was, that if he wereleft ever so dirty, the woman, at her return, saw him with a clean face,and his hair combed with the utmost exactness and nicety.Waldron gives another account of a poor woman, to whose offspring, itwould seem, the Fairies had taken a special fancy.A few nights after she was delivered of her first child, the family werealarmed by a dreadful cry of "Fire!" All flew to the door, while themother lay trembling in bed, unable to protect her infant, which wassnatched from the bed by an invisible hand. Fortunately, the return ofthe gossips, after the causeless alarm, disturbed the Fairies, whodropped the child, which was found sprawling and shrieking upon thethreshold.At the good woman's second accouchement, a tumult was heard in thecowhouse, which drew thither the whole assistants. They returned, whenthey found that all was quiet among the cattle, and lo! the second childhad been carried from the bed, and dropped in the middle of the lane.But, upon the third occurrence of the same kind, the company were againdecoyed out of the sick woman's chamber by a false alarm, leaving only anurse, who was detained by the bonds of sleep. On this last occasion,the mother plainly saw her child removed, though the means wereinvisible. She screamed for assistance to the nurse. but the old ladyhad partaken too deeply of the cordials which circulate upon such joyfuloccasions, to be easily awakened.In short, the child was this time fairly carried off, and a withered,deformed creature left in its stead, quite naked, with the clothes of theabstracted infant, rolled in a bundle, by its side. This creature livednine years, ate nothing but a few herbs, and neither spoke, stood,walked, nor performed any other functions of mortality. resembling, inall respects, the changeling already mentioned.