The region round the little town of Kjoge is very bleak andcold. The town lies on the sea shore, which is always beautiful. buthere it might be more beautiful than it is, for on every side thefields are flat, and it is a long way to the forest. But whenpersons reside in a place and get used to it, they can always findsomething beautiful in it, something for which they long, even in themost charming spot in the world which is not home. It must be ownedthat there are in the outskirts of the town some humble gardens on thebanks of a little stream that runs on towards the sea, and in summerthese gardens look very pretty. Such indeed was the opinion of twolittle children, whose parents were neighbors, and who played in thesegardens, and forced their way from one garden to the other through thegooseberry bushes that divided them. In one of the gardens grew anelder tree, and in the other an old willow, under which the childrenwere very fond of playing. They had permission to do so, althoughthe tree stood close by the stream, and they might easily havefallen into the water. but the eye of God watches over the littleones, otherwise they would never be safe. At the same time, thesechildren were very careful not to go too near the water. indeed, theboy was so afraid of it, that in the summer, while the otherchildren were splashing about in the sea, nothing could entice himto join them. They jeered and laughed at him, and he was obliged tobear it all as patiently as he could. Once the neighbor's little girl,Joanna, dreamed that she was sailing in a boat, and the boy Knudwas his name waded out in the water to join her, and the water cameup to his neck, and at last closed over his head, and in a moment hehad disappeared. When little Knud heard this dream, it seemed as if hecould not bear the mocking and jeering again. how could he dare togo into the water now, after Joanna's dream! He never would do it, forthis dream always satisfied him. The parents of these children, whowere poor, often sat together while Knud and Joanna played in thegardens or in the road. Along this road a row of willow trees hadbeen planted to separate it from a ditch on one side of it. Theywere not very handsome trees, for the tops had been cut off.however, they were intended for use, and not for show. The oldwillow tree in the garden was much handsomer, and therefore thechildren were very fond of sitting under it. The town had a largemarket place. and at the fair time there would be whole rows, likestreets, of tents and booths containing silks and ribbons, and toysand cakes, and everything that could be wished for. There werecrowds of people, and sometimes the weather would be rainy, and splashwith moisture the woollen jackets of the peasants. but it did notdestroy the beautiful fragrance of the honey cakes and gingerbreadwith which one booth was filled. and the best of it was, that theman who sold these cakes always lodged during the fair time withlittle Knud's parents. So every now and then he had a present ofgingerbread, and of course Joanna always had a share. And, moredelightful still, the gingerbread seller knew all sorts of things totell and could even relate stories about his own gingerbread. So oneevening he told them a story that made such a deep impression on thechildren that they never forgot it. and therefore I think we may aswell hear it too, for it is not very long."Once upon a time," said he, "there lay on my counter twogingerbread cakes, one in the shape of a man wearing a hat, theother of a maiden without a bonnet. Their faces were on the sidethat was uppermost, for on the other side they looked verydifferent. Most people have a best side to their characters, whichthey take care to show to the world. On the left, just where the heartis, the gingerbread man had an almond stuck in to represent it, butthe maiden was honey cake all over. They were placed on the counter assamples, and after lying there a long time they at last fell in lovewith each other. but neither of them spoke of it to the other, as theyshould have done if they expected anything to follow. 'He is a man, heought to speak the first word,' thought the gingerbread maiden. butshe felt quite happy she was sure that her love was returned. But histhoughts were far more ambitious, as the thoughts of a man oftenare. He dreamed that he was a real street boy, that he possessedfour real pennies, and that he had bought the gingerbread lady, andate her up. And so they lay on the counter for days and weeks, tillthey grew hard and dry. but the thoughts of the maiden became evermore tender and womanly. 'Ah well, it is enough for me that I havebeen able to live on the same counter with him,' said she one day.when suddenly, 'crack,' and she broke in two. 'Ah,' said thegingerbread man to himself, 'if she had only known of my love, shewould have kept together a little longer.' And here they both are, andthat is their history," said the cake man. "You think the history oftheir lives and their silent love, which never came to anything,very remarkable. and there they are for you." So saying, he gaveJoanna the gingerbread man, who was still quite whole and to Knud thebroken maiden. but the children had been so much impressed by thestory, that they had not the heart to eat the lovers up.The next day they went into the churchyard, and took the twocake figures with them, and sat down under the church wall, whichwas covered with luxuriant ivy in summer and winter, and looked asif hung with rich tapestry. They stuck up the two gingerbreadfigures in the sunshine among the green leaves, and then told thestory, and all about the silent love which came to nothing, to a groupof children. They called it, "love," because the story was solovely, and the other children had the same opinion. But when theyturned to look at the gingerbread pair, the broken maiden was gone!A great boy, out of wickedness, had eaten her up. At first thechildren cried about it. but afterwards, thinking very probably thatthe poor lover ought not to be left alone in the world, they ate himup too: but they never forgot the story.The two children still continued to play together by theelder tree, and under the willow. and the little maiden sang beautifulsongs, with a voice that was as clear as a bell. Knud, on thecontrary, had not a note of music in him, but knew the words of thesongs, and that of course is something. The people of Kjoge, andeven the rich wife of the man who kept the fancy shop, would stand andlisten while Joanna was singing, and say, "She has really a very sweetvoice."Those were happy days. but they could not last forever. Theneighbors were separated, the mother of the little girl was dead,and her father had thoughts of marrying again and of residing in thecapital, where he had been promised a very lucrative appointment asmessenger. The neighbors parted with tears, the children wept sadly.but their parents promised that they should write to each other atleast once a year.After this, Knud was bound apprentice to a shoemaker. he wasgrowing a great boy, and could not be allowed to run wild anylonger. Besides, he was going to be confirmed. Ah, how happy hewould have been on that festal day in Copenhagen with little Joanna.but he still remained at Kjoge, and had never seen the great city,though the town is not five miles from it. But far across the bay,when the sky was clear, the towers of Copenhagen could be seen. and onthe day of his confirmation he saw distinctly the golden cross onthe principal church glittering in the sun. How often his thoughtswere with Joanna! but did she think of him? Yes. About Christmascame a letter from her father to Knud's parents, which stated thatthey were going on very well in Copenhagen, and mentioningparticularly that Joanna's beautiful voice was likely to bring her abrilliant fortune in the future. She was engaged to sing at a concert,and she had already earned money by singing, out of which she sent herdear neighbors at Kjoge a whole dollar, for them to make merry onChristmas eve, and they were to drink her health. She had herselfadded this in a postscript, and in the same postscript she wrote,"Kind regards to Knud."The good neighbors wept, although the news was so pleasant. butthey wept tears of joy. Knud's thoughts had been daily with Joanna,and now he knew that she also had thought of him. and the nearer thetime came for his apprenticeship to end, the clearer did it appearto him that he loved Joanna, and that she must be his wife. and asmile came on his lips at the thought, and at one time he drew thethread so fast as he worked, and pressed his foot so hard againstthe knee strap, that he ran the awl into his finger. but what did hecare for that? He was determined not to play the dumb lover as boththe gingerbread cakes had done. the story was a good lesson to him.At length he become a journeyman. and then, for the first time, heprepared for a journey to Copenhagen, with his knapsack packed andready. A master was expecting him there, and he thought of Joanna, andhow glad she would be to see him. She was now seventeen, and henineteen years old. He wanted to buy a gold ring for her in Kjoge, butthen he recollected how far more beautiful such things would be inCopenhagen. So he took leave of his parents, and on a rainy day,late in the autumn, wandered forth on foot from the town of his birth.The leaves were falling from the trees. and, by the time he arrived athis new master's in the great metropolis, he was wet through. On thefollowing Sunday he intended to pay his first visit to Joanna'sfather. When the day came, the new journeyman's clothes were broughtout, and a new hat, which he had brought in Kjoge. The hat becamehim very well, for hitherto he had only worn a cap. He found the housethat he sought easily, but had to mount so many stairs that hebecame quite giddy. it surprised him to find how people lived over oneanother in this dreadful town.On entering a room in which everything denoted prosperity,Joanna's father received him very kindly. The new wife was astranger to him, but she shook hands with him, and offered him coffee."Joanna will be very glad to see you," said her father. "Youhave grown quite a nice young man, you shall see her presently. she isa good child, and is the joy of my heart, and, please God, she willcontinue to be so. she has her own room now, and pays us rent for it."And the father knocked quite politely at a door, as if he were astranger, and then they both went in. How pretty everything was inthat room! a more beautiful apartment could not be found in thewhole town of Kjoge. the queen herself could scarcely be betteraccommodated. There were carpets, and rugs, and window curtainshanging to the ground. Pictures and flowers were scattered about.There was a velvet chair, and a looking glass against the wall, intowhich a person might be in danger of stepping, for it was as largeas a door. All this Knud saw at a glance, and yet, in truth, he sawnothing but Joanna. She was quite grown up, and very different fromwhat Knud had fancied her, and a great deal more beautiful. In allKjoge there was not a girl like her. and how graceful she looked,although her glance at first was odd, and not familiar. but for amoment only, then she rushed towards him as if she would have kissedhim. she did not, however, although she was very near it. Yes, shereally was joyful at seeing the friend of her childhood once more, andthe tears even stood in her eyes. Then she asked so many questionsabout Knud's parents, and everything, even to the elder tree and thewillow, which she called "elder mother and willow father," as ifthey had been human beings. and so, indeed, they might be, quite asmuch as the gingerbread cakes. Then she talked about them, and thestory of their silent love, and how they lay on the counter togetherand split in two. and then she laughed heartily. but the bloodrushed into Knud's cheeks, and his heart beat quickly. Joanna wasnot proud at all. he noticed that through her he was invited by herparents to remain the whole evening with them, and she poured outthe tea and gave him a cup herself. and afterwards she took a book andread aloud to them, and it seemed to Knud as if the story was allabout himself and his love, for it agreed so well with his ownthoughts. And then she sang a simple song, which, through her singing,became a true story, and as if she poured forth the feelings of herown heart."Oh," he thought, "she knows I am fond of her." The tears he couldnot restrain rolled down his cheeks, and he was unable to utter asingle word. it seemed as if he had been struck dumb.When he left, she pressed his hand, and said, "You have a kindheart, Knud: remain always as you are now." What an evening ofhappiness this had been. to sleep after it was impossible, and Knuddid not sleep.At parting, Joanna's father had said, "Now, you won't quite forgetus. you must not let the whole winter go by without paying usanother visit." so that Knud felt himself free to go again thefollowing Sunday evening, and so he did. But every evening afterworking hours and they worked by candle light then he walked outinto the town, and through the street in which Joanna lived, to lookup at her window. It was almost always lighted up. and one eveninghe saw the shadow of her face quite plainly on the window blind.that was a glorious evening for him. His master's wife did not likehis always going out in the evening, idling, wasting time, as shecalled it, and she shook her head.But his master only smiled, and said, "He is a young man, my dear,you know.""On Sunday I shall see her," said Knud to himself, "and I willtell her that I love her with my whole heart and soul, and that shemust be my little wife. I know I am now only a poor journeymanshoemaker, but I will work and strive, and become a master in time.Yes, I will speak to her. nothing comes from silent love. I learntthat from the gingerbread cake story."Sunday came, but when Knud arrived, they were all unfortunatelyinvited out to spend the evening, and were obliged to tell him so.Joanna pressed his hand, and said, "Have you ever been to thetheatre? you must go once. I sing there on Wednesday, and if youhave time on that day, I will send you a ticket. my father knows whereyour master lives." How kind this was of her! And on Wednesday,about noon, Knud received a sealed packet with no address, but theticket was inside. and in the evening Knud went, for the first time inhis life, to a theatre. And what did he see? He saw Joanna, and howbeautiful and charming she looked! He certainly saw her beingmarried to a stranger, but that was all in the play, and only apretence. Knud well knew that. She could never have the heart, hethought, to send him a ticket to go and see it, if it had been real.So he looked on, and when all the people applauded and clapped theirhands, he shouted "hurrah." He could see that even the king smiledat Joanna, and seemed delighted with her singing. How small Knud felt.but then he loved her so dearly, and thought she loved him, and theman must speak the first word, as the gingerbread maiden hadthought. Ah, how much there was for him in that childish story. Assoon as Sunday arrived, he went again, and felt as if he were about toenter on holy ground. Joanna was alone to welcome him, nothing couldbe more fortunate."I am so glad you are come," she said. "I was thinking of sendingmy father for you, but I had a presentiment that you would be herethis evening. The fact is, I wanted to tell you that I am going toFrance. I shall start on Friday. It is necessary for me to go there,if I wish to become a first rate performer."Poor Knud! it seemed to him as if the whole room was whirlinground with him. His courage failed, and he felt as if his heartwould burst. He kept down the tears, but it was easy to see howsorrowful he was."You honest, faithful soul," she exclaimed. and the words loosenedKnud's tongue, and he told her how truly he had loved her, and thatshe must be his wife. and as he said this, he saw Joanna change color,and turn pale. She let his hand fall, and said, earnestly andmournfully, "Knud, do not make yourself and me unhappy. I willalways be a good sister to you, one in whom you can trust. but I cannever be anything more." And she drew her white hand over hisburning forehead, and said, "God gives strength to bear a greatdeal, if we only strive ourselves to endure."At this moment her stepmother came into the room, and Joannasaid quickly, "Knud is so unhappy, because I am going away." and itappeared as if they had only been talking of her journey. "Come, bea man," she added, placing her hand on his shoulder. "you are still achild, and you must be good and reasonable, as you were when we wereboth children, and played together under the willow tree."Knud listened, but he felt as if the world had slid out of itscourse. His thoughts were like a loose thread fluttering to and fro inthe wind. He stayed, although he could not tell whether she hadasked him to do so. But she was kind and gentle to him. she poured outhis tea, and sang to him. but the song had not the old tone in it,although it was wonderfully beautiful, and made his heart feel readyto burst. And then he rose to go. He did not offer his hand, but sheseized it, and said "Will you not shake hands with your sister at parting, my oldplayfellow?" and she smiled through the tears that were rolling downher cheeks. Again she repeated the word "brother," which was a greatconsolation certainly. and thus they parted.She sailed to France, and Knud wandered about the muddy streets ofCopenhagen. The other journeymen in the shop asked him why he lookedso gloomy, and wanted him to go and amuse himself with them, as he wasstill a young man. So he went with them to a dancing room. He saw manyhandsome girls there, but none like Joanna. and here, where he thoughtto forget her, she was more life like before his mind than ever."God gives us strength to bear much, if we try to do our best," shehad said. and as he thought of this, a devout feeling came into hismind, and he folded his hands. Then, as the violins played and thegirls danced round the room, he started. for it seemed to him as if hewere in a place where he ought not to have brought Joanna, for she washere with him in his heart. and so he went out at once. As he wentthrough the streets at a quick pace, he passed the house where sheused to live. it was all dark, empty, and lonely. But the world wenton its course, and Knud was obliged to go on too.Winter came. the water was frozen, and everything seemed buried ina cold grave. But when spring returned, and the first steamer preparedto sail, Knud was seized with a longing to wander forth into theworld, but not to France. So he packed his knapsack, and travelledthrough Germany, going from town to town, but finding neither restor peace. It was not till he arrived at the glorious old town ofNuremberg that he gained the mastery over himself, and rested hisweary feet. and here he remained.Nuremberg is a wonderful old city, and looks as if it had been cutout of an old picture book. The streets seem to have arrangedthemselves according to their own fancy, and as if the houses objectedto stand in rows or rank and file. Gables, with little towers,ornamented columns, and statues, can be seen even to the city gate.and from the singular shaped roofs, waterspouts, formed likedragons, or long lean dogs, extend far across to the middle of thestreet. Here, in the market place, stood Knud, with his knapsack onhis back, close to one of the old fountains which are so beautifullyadorned with figures, scriptural and historical, and which spring upbetween the sparkling jets of water. A pretty servant maid was justfilling her pails, and she gave Knud a refreshing draught. she had ahandful of roses, and she gave him one, which appeared to him like agood omen for the future. From a neighboring church came the sounds ofmusic, and the familiar tones reminded him of the organ at home atKjoge. so he passed into the great cathedral. The sunshine streamedthrough the painted glass windows, and between two lofty slenderpillars. His thoughts became prayerful, and calm peace rested on hissoul. He next sought and found a good master in Nuremberg, with whomhe stayed and learnt the German language.The old moat round the town had been converted into a number oflittle kitchen gardens. but the high walls, with their heavy lookingtowers, are still standing. Inside these walls the ropemaker twistedhis ropes along a walk built like a gallery, and in the cracks andcrevices of the walls elderbushes grow and stretch their greenboughs over the small houses which stand below. In one of these houseslived the master for whom Knud worked. and over the little garretwindow where he sat, the elder tree waved its branches. Here hedwelt through one summer and winter, but when spring came again, hecould endure it no longer. The elder was in blossom, and its fragrancewas so homelike, that he fancied himself back again in the gardensof Kjoge. So Knud left his master, and went to work for another wholived farther in the town, where no elder grew. His workshop was quiteclose to one of the old stone bridges, near to a water mill, roundwhich the roaring stream rushed and foamed always, yet restrained bythe neighboring houses, whose old, decayed balconies hung over, andseemed ready to fall into the water. Here grew no elder. here wasnot even a flower pot, with its little green plant. but justopposite the workshop stood a great willow tree, which seemed tohold fast to the house for fear of being carried away by the water. Itstretched its branches over the stream just as those of thewillow tree in the garden at Kjoge had spread over the river. Yes,he had indeed gone from elder mother to willow father. There was asomething about the tree here, especially in the moonlight nights,that went direct to his heart. yet it was not in reality themoonlight, but the old tree itself. However, he could not endure it:and why? Ask the willow, ask the blossoming elder! At all events, hebade farewell to Nuremberg and journeyed onwards. He never spoke ofJoanna to any one. his sorrow was hidden in his heart. The oldchildish story of the two cakes had a deep meaning for him. Heunderstood now why the gingerbread man had a bitter almond in his leftside. his was the feeling of bitterness, and Joanna, so mild andfriendly, was represented by the honeycake maiden. As he thoughtupon all this, the strap of his knapsack pressed across his chest sothat he could hardly breathe. he loosened it, but gained no relief. Hesaw but half the world around him. the other half he carried withhim in his inward thoughts. and this is the condition in which he leftNuremberg. Not till he caught sight of the lofty mountains did theworld appear more free to him. his thoughts were attracted to outerobjects, and tears came into his eyes. The Alps appeared to him likethe wings of earth folded together. unfolded, they would display thevariegated pictures of dark woods, foaming waters, spreading clouds,and masses of snow. "At the last day," thought he, "the earth willunfold its great wings, and soar upwards to the skies, there toburst like a soap bubble in the radiant glance of the Deity. Oh,"sighed he, "that the last day were come!"Silently he wandered on through the country of the Alps, whichseemed to him like a fruit garden, covered with soft turf. From thewooden balconies of the houses the young lacemakers nodded as hepassed. The summits of the mountains glowed in the red evening sunset,and the green lakes beneath the dark trees reflected the glow. Then hethought of the sea coast by the bay Kjoge, with a longing in his heartthat was, however, without pain. There, where the Rhine rolls onwardlike a great billow, and dissolves itself into snowflakes, whereglistening clouds are ever changing as if here was the place oftheir creation, while the rainbow flutters about them like amany colored ribbon, there did Knud think of the water mill atKjoge, with its rushing, foaming waters. Gladly would he have remainedin the quiet Rhenish town, but there were too many elders andwillow trees.So he travelled onwards, over a grand, lofty chain of mountains,over rugged, rocky precipices, and along roads that hung on themountain's side like a swallow's nest. The waters foamed in the depthsbelow him. The clouds lay beneath him. He wandered on, treading uponAlpine roses, thistles, and snow, with the summer sun shining uponhim, till at length he bid farewell to the lands of the north. Then hepassed on under the shade of blooming chestnut trees, throughvineyards, and fields of Indian corn, till conscious that themountains were as a wall between him and his early recollections.and he wished it to be so.Before him lay a large and splendid city, called Milan, and herehe found a German master who engaged him as a workman. The masterand his wife, in whose workshop he was employed, were an old, piouscouple. and the two old people became quite fond of the quietjourneyman, who spoke but little, but worked more, and led a pious,Christian life. and even to himself it seemed as if God had removedthe heavy burden from his heart. His greatest pleasure was to climb,now and then, to the roof of the noble church, which was built ofwhite marble. The pointed towers, the decorated and open cloisters,the stately columns, the white statues which smiled upon him fromevery corner and porch and arch, all, even the church itself,seemed to him to have been formed from the snow of his native land.Above him was the blue sky. below him, the city and the wide spreadingplains of Lombardy. and towards the north, the lofty mountains,covered with perpetual snow. And then he thought of the church ofKjoge, with its red, ivy clad walls, but he had no longing to gothere. here, beyond the mountains, he would die and be buried.Three years had passed away since he left his home. one year ofthat time he had dwelt at Milan.One day his master took him into the town. not to the circus inwhich riders performed, but to the opera, a large building, itself asight well worth seeing. The seven tiers of boxes, which reachedfrom the ground to a dizzy height, near the ceiling, were hung withrich, silken curtains. and in them were seated elegantly dressedladies, with bouquets of flowers in their hands. The gentlemen werealso in full dress, and many of them wore decorations of gold andsilver. The place was so brilliantly lighted that it seemed likesunshine, and glorious music rolled through the building. Everythinglooked more beautiful than in the theatre at Copenhagen, but thenJoanna had been there, and could it be? Yes it was like magic, shewas here also: for, when the curtain rose, there stood Joanna,dressed in silk and gold, and with a golden crown upon her head. Shesang, he thought, as only an angel could sing. and then she steppedforward to the front and smiled, as only Joanna could smile, andlooked directly at Knud. Poor Knud! he seized his master's hand, andcried out loud, "Joanna," but no one heard him, excepting hismaster, for the music sounded above everything."Yes, yes, it is Joanna," said his master. and he drew forth aprinted bill, and pointed to her name, which was there in full. Thenit was not a dream. All the audience applauded her, and threwwreaths of flowers at her. and every time she went away they calledfor her again, so that she was always coming and going. In thestreet the people crowded round her carriage, and drew it awaythemselves without the horses. Knud was in the foremost row, andshouted as joyously as the rest. and when the carriage stoppedbefore a brilliantly lighted house, Knud placed himself close to thedoor of her carriage. It flew open, and she stepped out. the lightfell upon her dear face, and he could see that she smiled as shethanked them, and appeared quite overcome. Knud looked straight in herface, and she looked at him, but she did not recognize him. A man,with a glittering star on his breast, gave her his arm, and peoplesaid the two were engaged to be married. Then Knud went home andpacked up his knapsack. he felt he must return to the home of hischildhood, to the elder tree and the willow. "Ah, under thatwillow tree!" A man may live a whole life in one single hour.The old couple begged him to remain, but words were useless. Invain they reminded him that winter was coming, and that the snow hadalready fallen on the mountains. He said he could easily follow thetrack of the closely moving carriages, for which a path must be keptclear, and with nothing but his knapsack on his back, and leaning onhis stick, he could step along briskly. So he turned his steps tothe mountains, ascended one side and descended the other, stillgoing northward till his strength began to fail, and not a house orvillage could be seen. The stars shone in the sky above him, anddown in the valley lights glittered like stars, as if another sky werebeneath him. but his head was dizzy and his feet stumbled, and he feltill. The lights in the valley grew brighter and brighter, and morenumerous, and he could see them moving to and fro, and then heunderstood that there must be a village in the distance. so he exertedhis failing strength to reach it, and at length obtained shelter ina humble lodging. He remained there that night and the whole of thefollowing day, for his body required rest and refreshment, and inthe valley there was rain and a thaw. But early in the morning ofthe third day, a man came with an organ and played one of the melodiesof home. and after that Knud could remain there no longer, so hestarted again on his journey toward the north. He travelled for manydays with hasty steps, as if he were trying to reach home before allwhom he remembered should die. but he spoke to no one of this longing.No one would have believed or understood this sorrow of his heart, thedeepest that can be felt by human nature. Such grief is not for theworld. it is not entertaining even to friends, and poor Knud had nofriends. he was a stranger, wandering through strange lands to hishome in the north.He was walking one evening through the public roads, the countryaround him was flatter, with fields and meadows, the air had afrosty feeling. A willow tree grew by the roadside, everythingreminded him of home. He felt very tired. so he sat down under thetree, and very soon began to nod, then his eyes closed in sleep. Yetstill he seemed conscious that the willow tree was stretching itsbranches over him. in his dreaming state the tree appeared like astrong, old man the "willow father" himself, who had taken histired son up in his arms to carry him back to the land of home, to thegarden of his childhood, on the bleak open shores of Kjoge. And thenhe dreamed that it was really the willow tree itself from Kjoge, whichhad travelled out in the world to seek him, and now had found himand carried him back into the little garden on the banks of thestreamlet. and there stood Joanna, in all her splendor, with thegolden crown on her head, as he had last seen her, to welcome himback. And then there appeared before him two remarkable shapes,which looked much more like human beings than when he had seen them inhis childhood. they were changed, but he remembered that they were thetwo gingerbread cakes, the man and the woman, who had shown their bestsides to the world and looked so good."We thank you," they said to Knud, "for you have loosened ourtongues. we have learnt from you that thoughts should be spokenfreely, or nothing will come of them. and now something has come ofour thoughts, for we are engaged to be married." Then they walkedaway, hand in hand, through the streets of Kjoge, looking veryrespectable on the best side, which they were quite right to show.They turned their steps to the church, and Knud and Joanna followedthem, also walking hand in hand. there stood the church, as of old,with its red walls, on which the green ivy grew.The great church door flew open wide, and as they walked up thebroad aisle, soft tones of music sounded from the organ. "Our masterfirst," said the gingerbread pair, making room for Knud and Joanna. Asthey knelt at the altar, Joanna bent her head over him, and cold,icy tears fell on his face from her eyes. They were indeed tears ofice, for her heart was melting towards him through his strong love,and as her tears fell on his burning cheeks he awoke. He was stillsitting under the willow tree in a strange land, on a cold winterevening, with snow and hail falling from the clouds, and beatingupon his face."That was the most delightful hour of my life," said he, "althoughit was only a dream. Oh, let me dream again." Then he closed hiseyes once more, and slept and dreamed.Towards morning there was a great fall of snow. the wind driftedit over him, but he still slept on. The villagers came forth to goto church. by the roadside they found a workman seated, but he wasdead! frozen to death under a willow tree.