"El Insan el Kamil," by 'Abd El Kereem El Jeelee, quotedby El Is aee, in his account of Ibraheem Basha el Matool.Mishkat el Maabee, vol. i. pp. 26 34.Ibid.Idem, vol. ii. p. 373.Nuzhet el Mutaammil wa Murshid el Mutaahhil, section 7.Mishkat el Maabee, vol. ii. p. 381.For a translation of the whole of this prayer, see"Modern Egyptians," vol. ii. ch, xii.ur an, ch. v. v. 35.See "Modern Egyptians," vol. ii. ch. xv.These degrees of relationship will be explained when Idescribe the customs relating to marriage.Nuzhet el Mutaammil wa Murshid el Mutaahhil, section 9.Mishkat el Maabee, vol. ii. pp. 140 and 141.Nuzhet El Mutaammil,  c., _loco laudato_.See "Modern Egyptians," vol. i. ch. vii.Events of the year 227.ur an, ch. xxvii. v. 40. and Commentary of the Jelaleyn.See "Mishat el Maabee," vol. ii. p. 374.Idem, vol ii. pp. 384, et seqq.Account of the early Arabs, in the "Mir at ez Zeman."During his last residence in Egypt, Mr. Lane thought hehad discovered a clue to the means employed in theseperformances, but he afterwards found that there were caseswhich remained to him inexplicable. ED.Mishkat el Maabee, _loco laudato_.Mir at ez Zeman, _loco laudato_.El Is aee, in his account of the reign of El Moataim,the son of Haroon.Mishkat el Maabee, vol. ii. p. 388.Vulgarly pronounced Nemrood.El Is aee, close of his account of the reign ofEl Emeen.El Jabartee's Modern Egyptian History (MS. in mypossession). account of the death of Yoosuf Bey, in the year ofthe Flight 1191. and account of the death of the sheykh asanEl Kafrawee, in the year 1202.Hence it has been called by many travellers, and even bysome learned Orientalists, the Great Feast. but it is never socalled by the Arabs.Mishkat el Maabee, vol. ii. p. 424.Genesis ix. 5.Lettres sur l'Histoire des Arabes avant l'Islamisme, parFulgence Fresnel. Paris, 1836, pp. 31, et seqq.El Is haee.El Is aee.Idem.Fakhr ed Deen, in De Sacy's Chrestomathie Arabe, vol. i.p. 3 of the Arabic Text: 2nd edition.Ibn Khaldoon, _ubi supra_, vol. i. p. 124 of the Arabictext.albet el Kumeyt (MS. in my possession), chap. vii.The maabah, with the picturesque Arab architecture ofwhich it forms a part, is fast disappearing from Egypt. InCairo and Alexandria, Moammad 'Alee ordered that the maabahsin the thoroughfare streets should be removed, or reduced toabout a foot in width. and interdicted the erection of newmeshrebeeyehs (projecting windows of lattice work), although heallowed the old ones to remain. ED.