From the Japanische Marchen und Sagen, von David Brauns (Leipzig:Wilhelm Friedrich).There was once a worthy old couple who lived on the coast, and supportedthemselves by fishing. They had only one child, a son, who was theirpride and joy, and for his sake they were ready to work hard all daylong, and never felt tired or discontented with their lot. This son'sname was Uraschimataro, which means in Japanese, 'Son of the island,'and he was a fine well grown youth and a good fisherman, minding neitherwind nor weather. Not the bravest sailor in the whole village daredventure so far out to sea as Uraschimataro, and many a time theneighbours used to shake their heads and say to his parents, 'If yourson goes on being so rash, one day he will try his luck once too often,and the waves will end by swallowing him up.' But Uraschimataro paid noheed to these remarks, and as he was really very clever in managing aboat, the old people were very seldom anxious about him.One beautiful bright morning, as he was hauling his well filled netsinto the boat, he saw lying among the fishes a tiny little turtle. Hewas delighted with his prize, and threw it into a wooden vessel tokeep till he got home, when suddenly the turtle found its voice, andtremblingly begged for its life. 'After all,' it said, 'what good canI do you? I am so young and small, and I would so gladly live a littlelonger. Be merciful and set me free, and I shall know how to prove mygratitude.'Now Uraschimataro was very good natured, and besides, he could neverbear to say no, so he picked up the turtle, and put it back into thesea.Years flew by, and every morning Uraschimataro sailed his boat into thedeep sea. But one day as he was making for a little bay between somerocks, there arose a fierce whirlwind, which shattered his boat topieces, and she was sucked under by the waves. Uraschimataro himselfvery nearly shared the same fate. But he was a powerful swimmer, andstruggled hard to reach the shore. Then he saw a large turtle comingtowards him, and above the howling of the storm he heard what it said:'I am the turtle whose life you once saved. I will now pay my debt andshow my gratitude. The land is still far distant, and without my helpyou would never get there. Climb on my back, and I will take you whereyou will.' Uraschimataro did not wait to be asked twice, and thankfullyaccepted his friend's help. But scarcely was he seated firmly on theshell, when the turtle proposed that they should not return to the shoreat once, but go under the sea, and look at some of the wonders that layhidden there.Uraschimataro agreed willingly, and in another moment they were deep,deep down, with fathoms of blue water above their heads. Oh, how quicklythey darted through the still, warm sea! The young man held tight, andmarvelled where they were going and how long they were to travel, butfor three days they rushed on, till at last the turtle stopped beforea splendid palace, shining with gold and silver, crystal and preciousstones, and decked here and there with branches of pale pink coral andglittering pearls. But if Uraschimataro was astonished at the beauty ofthe outside, he was struck dumb at the sight of the hall within, whichwas lighted by the blaze of fish scales.'Where have you brought me?' he asked his guide in a low voice.'To the palace of Ringu, the house of the sea god, whose subjects we allare,' answered the turtle. 'I am the first waiting maid of his daughter,the lovely princess Otohime, whom you will shortly see.'Uraschimataro was still so puzzled with the adventures that had befallenhim, that he waited in a dazed condition for what would happen next. Butthe turtle, who had talked so much of him to the princess that she hadexpressed a wish to see him, went at once to make known his arrival.And directly the princess beheld him her heart was set on him, and shebegged him to stay with her, and in return promised that he should nevergrow old, neither should his beauty fade. 'Is not that reward enough?'she asked, smiling, looking all the while as fair as the sun itself. AndUraschimataro said 'Yes,' and so he stayed there. For how long? That heonly knew later.His life passed by, and each hour seemed happier than the last, whenone day there rushed over him a terrible longing to see his parents. Hefought against it hard, knowing how it would grieve the princess, but itgrew on him stronger and stronger, till at length he became so sad thatthe princess inquired what was wrong. Then he told her of the longing hehad to visit his old home, and that he must see his parents once more.The princess was almost frozen with horror, and implored him to staywith her, or something dreadful would be sure to happen. 'You will nevercome back, and we shall meet again no more,' she moaned bitterly. ButUraschimataro stood firm and repeated, 'Only this once will I leave you,and then will I return to your side for ever.' Sadly the princess shookher head, but she answered slowly, 'One way there is to bring you safelyback, but I fear you will never agree to the conditions of the bargain.''I will do anything that will bring me back to you,' exclaimedUraschimataro, looking at her tenderly, but the princess was silent: sheknew too well that when he left her she would see his face no more. Thenshe took from a shelf a tiny golden box, and gave it to Uraschimataro,praying him to keep it carefully, and above all things never to open it.'If you can do this,' she said as she bade him farewell, 'your friendthe turtle will meet you at the shore, and will carry you back to me.'Uraschimataro thanked her from his heart, and swore solemnly to do herbidding. He hid the box safely in his garments, seated himself on theback of the turtle, and vanished in the ocean path, waving his hand tothe princess. Three days and three nights they swam through the sea, andat length Uraschimataro arrived at the beach which lay before his oldhome. The turtle bade him farewell, and was gone in a moment.Uraschimataro drew near to the village with quick and joyful steps.He saw the smoke curling through the roof, and the thatch where greenplants had thickly sprouted. He heard the children shouting and calling,and from a window that he passed came the twang of the koto, andeverything seemed to cry a welcome for his return. Yet suddenly hefelt a pang at his heart as he wandered down the street. After all,everything was changed. Neither men nor houses were those he once knew.Quickly he saw his old home. yes, it was still there, but it had astrange look. Anxiously he knocked at the door, and asked the woman whoopened it after his parents. But she did not know their names, and couldgive him no news of them.Still more disturbed, he rushed to the burying ground, the only placethat could tell him what he wished to know. Here at any rate he wouldfind out what it all meant. And he was right. In a moment he stoodbefore the grave of his parents, and the date written on the stonewas almost exactly the date when they had lost their son, and he hadforsaken them for the Daughter of the Sea. And so he found that since hehad deft his home, three hundred years had passed by.Shuddering with horror at his discovery he turned back into the villagestreet, hoping to meet some one who could tell him of the days of old.But when the man spoke, he knew he was not dreaming, though he felt asif he had lost his senses.In despair he bethought him of the box which was the gift of theprincess. Perhaps after all this dreadful thing was not true. Hemight be the victim of some enchanter's spell, and in his hand lay thecounter charm. Almost unconsciously he opened it, and a purple vapourcame pouring out. He held the empty box in his hand, and as he looked hesaw that the fresh hand of youth had grown suddenly shrivelled, like thehand of an old, old man. He ran to the brook, which flowed in a clearstream down from the mountain. and saw himself reflected as in a mirror.It was the face of a mummy which looked back at him. Wounded to death,he crept back through the village, and no man knew the old, old man tobe the strong handsome youth who had run down the street an hour before.So he toiled wearily back, till he reached the shore, and here he satsadly on a rock, and called loudly on the turtle. But she never cameback any more, but instead, death came soon, and set him free. Butbefore that happened, the people who saw him sitting lonely on the shorehad heard his story, and when their children were restless they used totell them of the good son who from love to his parents had given up fortheir sakes the splendour and wonders of the palace in the sea, and themost beautiful woman in the world besides.