Long, long ago there was born to a Roman knight and his wife Maja alittle boy called Virgilius. While he was still quite little, his fatherdied, and the kinsmen, instead of being a help and protection to thechild and his mother, robbed them of their lands and money, and thewidow, fearing that they might take the boy's life also, sent him awayto Spain, that he might study in the great University of Toledo.Virgilius was fond of books, and pored over them all day long. But oneafternoon, when the boys were given a holiday, he took a long walk, andfound himself in a place where he had never been before. In front of himwas a cave, and, as no boy ever sees a cave without entering it, he wentin. The cave was so deep that it seemed to Virgilius as if it must runfar into the heart of the mountain, and he thought he would like to seeif it came out anywhere on the other side. For some time he walked onin pitch darkness, but he went steadily on, and by and by a glimmer oflight shot across the floor, and he heard a voice calling, 'Virgilius!Virgilius!''Who calls?' he asked, stopping and looking round.'Virgilius!' answered the voice, 'do you mark upon the ground where youare standing a slide or bolt?''I do,' replied Virgilius.'Then,' said the voice, 'draw back that bolt, and set me free.''But who are you?' asked Virgilius, who never did anything in a hurry.'I am an evil spirit,' said the voice, 'shut up here till Doomsday,unless a man sets me free. If you will let me out I will give you somemagic books, which will make you wiser than any other man.'Now Virgilius loved wisdom, and was tempted by these promises, but againhis prudence came to his aid, and he demanded that the books should behanded over to him first, and that he should be told how to use them.The evil spirit, unable to help itself, did as Virgilius bade him, andthen the bolt was drawn back. Underneath was a small hole, and out ofthis the evil spirit gradually wriggled himself. but it took some time,for when at last he stood upon the ground he proved to be about threetimes as large as Virgilius himself, and coal black besides.'Why, you can't have been as big as that when you were in the hole!'cried Virgilius.'But I was!' replied the spirit.'I don't believe it!' answered Virgilius.'Well, I'll just get in and show you,' said the spirit, and afterturning and twisting, and curling himself up, then he lay neatly packedinto the hole. Then Virgilius drew the bolt, and, picking the books upunder his arm, he left the cave.For the next few weeks Virgilius hardly ate or slept, so busy was he inlearning the magic the books contained. But at the end of that time amessenger from his mother arrived in Toledo, begging him to come atonce to Rome, as she had been ill, and could look after their affairs nolonger.Though sorry to leave Toledo, where he was much thought of as showingpromise of great learning, Virgilius would willingly have set out atonce, but there were many things he had first to see to. So he entrustedto the messenger four pack horses laden with precious things, and awhite palfrey on which she was to ride out every day. Then he set abouthis own preparations, and, followed by a large train of scholars, he atlength started for Rome, from which he had been absent twelve years.His mother welcomed him back with tears in her eyes, and his poorkinsmen pressed round him, but the rich ones kept away, for they fearedthat they would no longer be able to rob their kinsman as they had donefor many years past. Of course, Virgilius paid no attention to thisbehaviour, though he noticed they looked with envy on the rich presentshe bestowed on the poorer relations and on anyone who had been kind tohis mother.Soon after this had happened the season of tax gathering came round, andeveryone who owned land was bound to present himself before the emperor.Like the rest, Virgilius went to court, and demanded justice from theemperor against the men who had robbed him. But as these were kinsmento the emperor he gained nothing, as the emperor told him he would thinkover the matter for the next four years, and then give judgment. Thisreply naturally did not satisfy Virgilius, and, turning on his heel, hewent back to his own home, and, gathering in his harvest, he stored itup in his various houses.When the enemies of Virgilius heard of this, they assembled togetherand laid siege to his castle. But Virgilius was a match for them. Comingforth from the castle so as to meet them face to face, he cast a spellover them of such power that they could not move, and then bade themdefiance. After which he lifted the spell, and the invading army slunkback to Rome, and reported what Virgilius had said to the emperor.Now the emperor was accustomed to have his lightest word obeyed, almostbefore it was uttered, and he hardly knew how to believe his ears. Buthe got together another army, and marched straight off to the castle.But directly they took up their position Virgilius girded them aboutwith a great river, so that they could neither move hand nor foot, then,hailing the emperor, he offered him peace, and asked for his friendship.The emperor, however, was too angry to listen to anything, so Virgilius,whose patience was exhausted, feasted his own followers in the presenceof the starving host, who could not stir hand or foot.Things seemed getting desperate, when a magician arrived in the camp andoffered to sell his services to the emperor. His proposals were gladlyaccepted, and in a moment the whole of the garrison sank down as if theywere dead, and Virgilius himself had much ado to keep awake. He did notknow how to fight the magician, but with a great effort struggled toopen his Black Book, which told him what spells to use. In an instantall his foes seemed turned to stone, and where each man was there hestayed. Some were half way up the ladders, some had one foot over thewall, but wherever they might chance to be there every man remained,even the emperor and his sorcerer. All day they stayed there likeflies upon the wall, but during the night Virgilius stole softly tothe emperor, and offered him his freedom, as long as he would do himjustice. The emperor, who by this time was thoroughly frightened, saidhe would agree to anything Virgilius desired. So Virgilius took off hisspells, and, after feasting the army and bestowing on every man a gift,bade them return to Rome. And more than that, he built a square towerfor the emperor, and in each corner all that was said in that quarter ofthe city might be heard, while if you stood in the centre every whisperthroughout Rome would reach your ears.Having settled his affairs with the emperor and his enemies, Virgiliushad time to think of other things, and his first act was to fall inlove! The lady's name was Febilla, and her family was noble, and herface fairer than any in Rome, but she only mocked Virgilius, and wasalways playing tricks upon him. To this end, she bade him one day cometo visit her in the tower where she lived, promising to let down abasket to draw him up as far as the roof. Virgilius was enchanted atthis quite unexpected favour, and stepped with glee into the basket. Itwas drawn up very slowly, and by and by came altogether to a standstill,while from above rang the voice of Febilla crying, 'Rogue of a sorcerer,there shalt thou hang!' And there he hung over the market place, whichwas soon thronged with people, who made fun of him till he was mad withrage. At last the emperor, hearing of his plight, commanded Febilla torelease him, and Virgilius went home vowing vengeance.The next morning every fire in Rome went out, and as there were nomatches in those days this was a very serious matter. The emperor,guessing that this was the work of Virgilius, besought him to breakthe spell. Then Virgilius ordered a scaffold to be erected in themarket place, and Febilla to be brought clothed in a single whitegarment. And further, he bade every one to snatch fire from the maiden,and to suffer no neighbour to kindle it. And when the maiden appeared,clad in her white smock, flames of fire curled about her, and the Romansbrought some torches, and some straw, and some shavings, and fires werekindled in Rome again.For three days she stood there, till every hearth in Rome was alight,and then she was suffered to go where she would.But the emperor was wroth at the vengeance of Virgilius, and threw himinto prison, vowing that he should be put to death. And when everythingwas ready he was led out to the Viminal Hill, where he was to die.He went quietly with his guards, but the day was hot, and on reachinghis place of execution he begged for some water. A pail was brought, andhe, crying 'Emperor, all hail! seek for me in Sicily,' jumped headlonginto the pail, and vanished from their sight.For some time we hear no more of Virgilius, or how he made his peacewith the emperor, but the next event in his history was his being sentfor to the palace to give the emperor advice how to guard Rome fromfoes within as well as foes without. Virgilius spent many days in deepthought, and at length invented a plan which was known to all as the'Preservation of Rome.'On the roof of the Capitol, which was the most famous public buildingin the city, he set up statues representing the gods worshipped by everynation subject to Rome, and in the middle stood the god of Rome herself.Each of the conquered gods held in its hand a bell, and if there waseven a thought of treason in any of the countries its god turned itsback upon the god of Rome and rang its bell furiously, and the senatorscame hurrying to see who was rebelling against the majesty of theempire. Then they made ready their armies, and marched against the foe.Now there was a country which had long felt bitter jealousy of Rome,and was anxious for some way of bringing about its destruction. So thepeople chose three men who could be trusted, and, loading them withmoney, sent them to Rome, bidding them to pretend that they werediviners of dreams. No sooner had the messengers reached the city thanthey stole out at night and buried a pot of gold far down in the earth,and let down another into the bed of the Tiber, just where a bridgespans the river.Next day they went to the senate house, where the laws were made, and,bowing low, they said, 'Oh, noble lords, last night we dreamed thatbeneath the foot of a hill there lies buried a pot of gold. Have we yourleave to dig for it?' And leave having been given, the messengers tookworkmen and dug up the gold and made merry with it.A few days later the diviners again appeared before the senate, andsaid, 'Oh, noble lords, grant us leave to seek out another treasure,which has been revealed to us in a dream as lying under the bridge overthe river.'And the senators gave leave, and the messengers hired boats and men, andlet down ropes with hooks, and at length drew up the pot of gold, someof which they gave as presents to the senators.A week or two passed by, and once more they appeared in the senatehouse.'O, noble lords!' said they, 'last night in a vision we beheld twelvecasks of gold lying under the foundation stone of the Capitol, on whichstands the statue of the Preservation of Rome. Now, seeing that by yourgoodness we have been greatly enriched by our former dreams, we wish, ingratitude, to bestow this third treasure on you for your own profit. sogive us workers, and we will begin to dig without delay.'And receiving permission they began to dig, and when the messengers hadalmost undermined the Capitol they stole away as secretly as they hadcome.And next morning the stone gave way, and the sacred statue fell on itsface and was broken. And the senators knew that their greed had beentheir ruin.From that day things went from bad to worse, and every morning crowdspresented themselves before the emperor, complaining of the robberies,murders, and other crimes that were committed nightly in the streets.The emperor, desiring nothing so much as the safety of his subjects,took counsel with Virgilius how this violence could be put down.Virgilius thought hard for a long time, and then he spoke:'Great prince,' said he, 'cause a copper horse and rider to be made, andstationed in front of the Capitol. Then make a proclamation that at teno'clock a bell will toll, and every man is to enter his house, and notleave it again.'The emperor did as Virgilius advised, but thieves and murderers laughedat the horse, and went about their misdeeds as usual.But at the last stroke of the bell the horse set off at full gallopthrough the streets of Rome, and by daylight men counted over twohundred corpses that it had trodden down. The rest of the thieves andthere were still many remaining instead of being frightened intohonesty, as Virgilius had hoped, prepared rope ladders with hooks tothem, and when they heard the sound of the horse's hoofs they stucktheir ladders into the walls, and climbed up above the reach of thehorse and its rider.Then the emperor commanded two copper dogs to be made that would runafter the horse, and when the thieves, hanging from the walls, mockedand jeered at Virgilius and the emperor, the dogs leaped high after themand pulled them to the ground, and bit them to death.Thus did Virgilius restore peace and order to the city.Now about this time there came to be noised abroad the fame of thedaughter of the sultan who ruled over the province of Babylon, andindeed she was said to be the most beautiful princess in the world.Virgilius, like the rest, listened to the stories that were told of her,and fell so violently in love with all he heard that he built a bridgein the air, which stretched all the way between Rome and Babylon.He then passed over it to visit the princess, who, though somewhatsurprised to see him, gave him welcome, and after some conversationbecame in her turn anxious to see the distant country where thisstranger lived, and he promised that he would carry her there himself,without wetting the soles of his feet.The princess spent some days in the palace of Virgilius, looking atwonders of which she had never dreamed, though she declined to acceptthe presents he longed to heap on her. The hours passed as if they wereminutes, till the princess said that she could be no longer absent fromher father. Then Virgilius conducted her himself over the airy bridge,and laid her gently down on her own bed, where she was found nextmorning by her father.She told him all that had happened to her, and he pretended to be verymuch interested, and begged that the next time Virgilius came he mightbe introduced to him.Soon after, the sultan received a message from his daughter that thestranger was there, and he commanded that a feast should be made ready,and, sending for the princess delivered into her hands a cup, which hesaid she was to present to Virgilius herself, in order to do him honour.When they were all seated at the feast the princess rose and presentedthe cup to Virgilius, who directly he had drunk fell into a deep sleep.Then the sultan ordered his guards to bind him, and left him there tillthe following day.Directly the sultan was up he summoned his lords and nobles into hisgreat hall, and commanded that the cords which bound Virgilius should betaken off, and the prisoner brought before him. The moment he appearedthe sultan's passion broke forth, and he accused his captive of thecrime of conveying the princess into distant lands without his leave.Virgilius replied that if he had taken her away he had also brought herback, when he might have kept her, and that if they would set him freeto return to his own land he would come hither no more.'Not so!' cried the sultan, 'but a shameful death you shall die!' Andthe princess fell on her knees, and begged she might die with him.'You are out in your reckoning, Sir Sultan!' said Virgilius, whosepatience was at an end, and he cast a spell over the sultan and hislords, so that they believed that the great river of Babylon was flowingthrough the hall, and that they must swim for their lives. So, leavingthem to plunge and leap like frogs and fishes, Virgilius took theprincess in his arms, and carried her over the airy bridge back to Rome.Now Virgilius did not think that either his palace, or even Rome itself,was good enough to contain such a pearl as the princess, so he built hera city whose foundations stood upon eggs, buried far away down in thedepths of the sea. And in the city was a square tower, and on the roofof the tower was a rod of iron, and across the rod he laid a bottle, andon the bottle he placed an egg, and from the egg there hung chained anapple, which hangs there to this day. And when the egg shakes the cityquakes, and when the egg shall be broken the city shall be destroyed.And the city Virgilius filled full of wonders, such as never were seenbefore, and he called its name Naples.(Adapted from 'Virgilius the Sorcerer.')