Many years ago there lived on the then barren plain of Suruga a woodsmanby the name of Visu. He was a giant in stature, and lived in a hut withhis wife and children.One day Visu received a visit from an old priest, who said to him:"Honorable woodsman, I am afraid you never pray."Visu replied: "If you had a wife and a large family to keep, you wouldnever have time to pray."This remark made the priest angry, and the old man gave the woodcutter avivid description of the horror of being reborn as a toad, or a mouse, oran insect for millions of years. Such lurid details were not to Visu'sliking, and he accordingly promised the priest that in future he wouldpray."Work and pray," said the priest as he took his departure.Unfortunately Visu did nothing but pray. He prayed all day long andrefused to do any work, so that his rice crops withered and his wife andfamily starved. Visu's wife, who had hitherto never said a harsh orbitter word to her husband, now became extremely angry, and, pointing tothe poor thin bodies of her children, she exclaimed: "Rise, Visu, take upyour ax and do something more helpful to us all than the mere mumbling ofprayers!"Visu was so utterly amazed at what his wife had said that it was sometime before he could think of a fitting reply. When he did so his wordscame hot and strong to the ears of his poor, much wronged wife."Woman," said he, "the Gods come first. You are an impertinent creatureto speak to me so, and I will have nothing more to do with you!" Visusnatched up his ax and, without looking round to say farewell, he leftthe hut, strode out of the wood, and climbed up Fujiyama, where a misthid him from sight.When Visu had seated himself upon the mountain he heard a soft rustlingsound, and immediately afterward saw a fox dart into a thicket. Now Visudeemed it extremely lucky to see a fox, and, forgetting his prayers, hesprang up, and ran hither and thither in the hope of again finding thissharp nosed little creature.He was about to give up the chase when, coming to an open space in awood, he saw two ladies sitting down by a brook playing go. The woodsmanwas so completely fascinated that he could do nothing but sit down andwatch them. There was no sound except the soft click of pieces on theboard and the song of the running brook. The ladies took no notice ofVisu, for they seemed to be playing a strange game that had no end, agame that entirely absorbed their attention. Visu could not keep hiseyes off these fair women. He watched their long black hair and thelittle quick hands that shot out now and again from their big silksleeves in order to move the pieces.After he had been sitting there for three hundred years, though to him itwas but a summer's afternoon, he saw that one of the players had made afalse move. "Wrong, most lovely lady!" he exclaimed excitedly. In amoment these women turned into foxes and ran away.When Visu attempted to pursue them he found to his horror that his limbswere terribly stiff, that his hair was very long, and that his beardtouched the ground. He discovered, moreover, that the handle of his ax,though made of the hardest wood, had crumbled away into a little heap ofdust.After many painful efforts Visu was able to stand on his feet and proceedvery slowly toward his little home. When he reached the spot he wassurprised to see no hut, and, perceiving a very old woman, he said: "Goodlady, I am amazed to find that my little home has disappeared. I wentaway this afternoon, and now in the evening it has vanished!"The old woman, who believed that a madman was addressing her, inquiredhis name. When she was told, she exclaimed: "Bah! You must indeed bemad! Visu lived three hundred years ago! He went away one day, and henever came back again.""Three hundred years!" murmured Visu. "It cannot be possible. Where aremy dear wife and children?""Buried!" hissed the old woman, "and, if what you say is true, youchildren's children too. The Gods have prolonged your miserable life inpunishment for having neglected your wife and little children."Big tears ran down Visu's withered cheeks as he said in a husky voice: "Ihave lost my manhood. I have prayed when my dear ones starved and neededthe labor of my once strong hands. Old woman, remember my last words:"If you pray, work too!"We do not know how long the poor but repentant Visu lived after hereturned from his strange adventures. His white spirit is still said tohaunt Fujiyama when the moon shines brightly.