Once upon a time there was a king and three daughters. These threedaughters being at table one day, their father said, "Come now, let us seewhich of you three loves me."The oldest said, "Papa, I love you as much as my eyes."The second answered, "I love you as much as my heart."The youngest said, "I love you as much as water and salt."The king heard her with amazement, "Do you value me like water andsalt? Quick! call the executioners, for I will have her killedimmediately."The other sisters privately gave the executioners a little dog, andtold them to kill it and rend one of the youngest sister's garments, butto leave her in a cave.This they did, and brought back to the king the dog's tongue and therent garment: "Royal majesty, here is her tongue and garment."And his majesty gave them a reward.The unfortunate princess was found in the forest by a magician, whotook her to his house opposite the royal palace. Here the king's son sawher and fell desperately in love with her, and the match was soon agreedupon.Then the magician came and said, "You must kill me the day before thewedding. You must invite three kings, your father the first. You mustorder the servants to pass water and salt to all the guests except yourfather."Now let us return to the father of this young girl, who the longer helived the more his love for her increased, and he was sick of grief. Whenher received the invitation he said, "And how can I go with this love formy daughter?" And he would not go. Then he thought, "But this king will beoffended if I do not go, and will declare war against me some time."He accepted and went. The day before the wedding they killed themagician and quartered him, and put a quarter in each of four rooms, andsprinkled his blood in all the rooms and on the stairway, and the bloodand flesh became gold and precious stones.When the three kings came and saw the golden stairs, they did not liketo step on them. "Never mind," said the prince, "go up. This is nothing."That evening they were married. The next day they had a banquet. Theprince gave orders. "No salt and water to that king."They sat down at table, and the young queen was near her father, but hedid not eat.His daughter said, "Royal majesty, why do you not eat. Does not thefood please you?""What an idea! It is very fine.""Why don't you eat then?""I don't feel very well."The bride and groom helped him to some bits of meat, but the king didnot want it, and chewed his food over and over again like a goat (as if hecould eat it without salt!).When they finished eating they began to tell stories, and the king toldthem all about his daughter. She asked him if he could still recognizeher, and stepping out of the room put on the same dress she wore when hesent her away to be killed."You caused me to be killed because I told you I loved you as much assalt and water. Now you have seen what it is to eat without salt andwater."Her father could not say a word, but embraced her and begged herpardon. They remained happy and contented, and here we are with nothing.