The water man (Wendish wodny muz ), also called the nix (Wendishnykus), as well as his spouse the water woman ( wodna zona ), livesin the rivers, lakes, and ponds of Lusatia. He tempts passers by to gobathing, in order to drown them. This he does to everyone who trespassinto his domain while bathing. Blue spots on a drowned person's body are asign that the nixes caused the drowning.In appearance a nix cannot be distinguished from a human. On dry landhe is powerless, and can be taken prisoner and forced into servitude. Heproduces children with his wife, and these interact with human children.They even associate with humans at dances and fall in love with prettygirls and young men. The daughter of a water man can always be recognizedby the wet hem on her skirt.The water man usually wears a red cap on his head, and the water womanred stockings on her feet. Further, in the towns of Upper Lusatia it hasbeen observed that if a man wearing a linen jacket with a wet bottom hemcomes to the weekly market and buys grain at above the market price, thengrain will become more expensive. However, if he sells grain at a betterprice than others, the price of grain will fall. This man is thewater man.His wife is often seen sitting on a bank in her red stockings spinningor bleaching her laundry. In this last instance it means there will berainy weather or high water. Just as the water man bargains with grain,she bargains with butter, thus giving an indication of future prices.In the region around Zittau during the moon's first and last quarters,the water man sits on riverbanks where the water is slow and deep andmakes no sound. His appearance is ugly, with a very pale face and longblack hair that hangs down to his shoulders. He is dressed from head tofoot in brownish yellow leather that has been put together entirely fromlittle scraps. By moonlight he counts them aloud, at the same timeslapping his legs with his hands. He can be recognized by this sound.Curiosity seekers and daredevils, lured by this sound, have seen himsitting there on an overhanging bank and have attempted to interrupt himby counting and clapping. He slipped into the murmuring water, and nothinghappened to them, but then they had the unpleasant experience of hearingclapping and counting in front of their house every night. This continueduntil fear and anger finally caused them to join in with the counting,upon which they heard loud laughter, and were then no longer disturbed intheir rest.