I will tell you a story that was told me when I was a little boy. Everytime I thought of this story, it seemed to me more and more charming. forit is with stories as it is with many people   they become better as theygrow older.I have no doubt that you have been in the country, and seen a very oldfarmhouse, with a thatched roof, and moss and small plants growing wildupon it. There is a stork's nest on the ridge of the gable, for we cannotdo without the stork. The walls of the house are sloping, and the windowsare low, and only one of them is made to open. The baking oven sticks outof the wall like a great knob. An elder tree hangs over the fence. andbeneath its branches, at the foot of the fence, is a pool of water with afew ducks. There is a watchdog too, who barks at everyone.Just such a farmhouse as this stood in a country lane. and in it livedan old couple, a peasant and his wife. Small as their possessions were,they had one article they could not do without, and that was a horse,which contrived to live upon the grass that it found by the side of thehighroad. The old peasant rode into the town upon this horse, and hisneighbors often borrowed it from him, and paid for the loan of it byrendering some service to the old couple. After a time they thought itwould be as well to sell the horse, or exchange it for something whichmight be more useful to them. But what might this something be?"You'll know best, old man," said the wife. "It is market day today. soride into town, and get rid of the horse for money, or make a goodexchange. whichever you do will be right to me, so ride to themarket."And she fastened his neckerchief for him. for she could do that betterthan he could, and she could also tie it very prettily in a double bow.She also smoothed his hat round and round with the palm of her hand, andgave him a kiss. Then he rode away upon the horse that was to be sold orbartered for something else. Yes, the old man knew what he was about. Thesun shone with great heat, and not a cloud was to be seen in the sky. Theroad was very dusty. for a number of people, all going to market, weredriving, riding, or walking upon it. There was no shelter anywhere fromthe hot sunshine. Among the rest a man came trudging along, and driving acow to the fair. The cow was as beautiful a creature as any cow couldbe."She gives good milk, I am certain," said the peasant to himself. "Thatwould be a very good exchange: the cow for the horse. Hallo there! youwith the cow," he said. "I tell you what. I dare say a horse is of morevalue than a cow. but I don't care for that. A cow will be more useful tome. so, if you like, we'll exchange.""To be sure I will," said the man.Accordingly the exchange was made. and as the matter was settled, thepeasant might have turned back. for he had done the business he came todo. But, having made up his mind to go to market, he determined to do so,if only to have a look at it. so on he went to the town with his cow.Leading the animal, he strode on sturdily, and, after a short time,overtook a man who was driving a sheep. It was a good fat sheep, with finefleece on its back."I should like to have that fellow," said the peasant to himself."There is plenty of grass for him by our fence, and in the winter we couldkeep him in the room with us. Perhaps it would be more profitable to havea sheep than a cow. Shall I exchange?"The man with the sheep was quite ready, and the bargain was quicklymade. And then our peasant continued his way on the highroad with hissheep. Soon after this, he overtook another man, who had come onto theroad from a field, and was carrying a large goose under his arm."What a heavy creature you have there!" said the peasant. "it hasplenty of feathers and plenty of fat, and would look well tied to astring, or paddling in the water at our place. That would be very usefulto my old woman. She could make all sorts of profits out of it. How oftenshe has said, 'If now we only had a goose!' Now here is an opportunity,and, if possible, I will get it for her. Shall we exchange? I will giveyou my sheep for your goose, and thanks into the bargain."The other had not the least objection, and accordingly the exchange wasmade, and our peasant became possessor of the goose. By this time he hadarrived very near the town. The crowd on the highroad had been graduallyincreasing, and there was quite a rush of men and cattle. The cattlewalked on the path and by the fence, and at the turnpike gate they evenwalked into the gatekeeper's potato field, where a chicken was struttingabout with a string tied to its leg, for fear it should take fright at thecrowd, and run away and get lost. The chicken's tail feathers were veryshort, and it winked with both its eyes, and looked very cunning, as itsaid "cluck, cluck." What were the thoughts of the chicken as it said thisI cannot tell you. but as soon as our good man saw it, he thought, "Whythat's the finest chicken I ever saw in my life. it's finer than ourparson's brood hen, upon my word. I should like to have that chicken.Chickens can always pick up a few grains that lie about, and almost keepthemselves. I think it would be a good exchange if I could get it for mygoose. Shall we exchange?" he asked the gatekeeper."Exchange," repeated the man. "well, it would not be a bad thing."And so they made an exchange. The gatekeeper at the turnpike gate keptthe goose, and the peasant carried off the chicken. Now he had really donea great deal of business on his way to market, and he was hot and tired.He wanted something to eat, and a glass of ale to refresh himself. so heturned his steps to an inn. He was just about to enter when the innkeepercame out, and they met at the door. The innkeeper was carrying a sack."What have you in that sack?" asked the peasant."Rotten apples," answered the innkeeper. "a whole sackful of them. Theywill do to feed the pigs with.""Why that will be terrible waste," he replied. "I should like to takethem home to my old woman. Last year the old apple tree by the grass plotonly bore one apple, and we kept it in the cupboard till it was quitewithered and rotten. It was always property, my old woman said. and hereshe would see a great deal of property   a whole sackful. I should liketo show them to her.""What will you give me for the sackful?" asked the innkeeper."What will I give? Well, I will give you my chicken in exchange."So he gave up the chicken, and received the apples, which he carriedinto the inn parlor. He leaned the sack carefully against the stove, andthen went to the table. But the stove was hot, and he had not thought ofthat. Many guests were present   horse dealers, cattle drovers, and twoEnglishmen. The Englishmen were so rich that their pockets quite bulgedout and seemed ready to burst. and they could bet too, as you shall hear."Hiss s s, hiss s s." What could that be by the stove? The apples werebeginning to roast. "What is that?" asked one."Why, do you know"   said our peasant. And then he told them the wholestory of the horse, which he had exchanged for a cow, and all the rest ofit, down to the apples."Well, your old woman will give it you well when you get home," saidone of the Englishmen. "Won't there be a noise?""What! Give me what?" said the peasant. "Why, she will kiss me, andsay, 'what the old man does is always right.'""Let us lay a wager on it," said the Englishmen. "We'll wager you a tonof coined gold, a hundred pounds to the hundredweight.""No. a bushel will be enough," replied the peasant. "I can only set abushel of apples against it, and I'll throw myself and my old woman intothe bargain. that will pile up the measure, I fancy.""Done! taken!" and so the bet was made.Then the landlord's coach came to the door, and the two Englishmen andthe peasant got in, and away they drove, and soon arrived and stopped atthe peasant's hut."Good evening, old woman.""Good evening, old man.""I've made the exchange.""Ah, well, you understand what you're about," said the woman. Then sheembraced him, and paid no attention to the strangers, nor did she noticethe sack."I got a cow in exchange for the horse.""Thank Heaven," said she. "Now we shall have plenty of milk, andbutter, and cheese on the table. That was a capital exchange.""Yes, but I changed the cow for a sheep.""Ah, better still!" cried the wife. "You always think of everything. wehave just enough pasture for a sheep. Ewe's milk and cheese, woolenjackets and stockings! The cow could not give all these, and her hair onlyfalls off. How you think of everything!""But I changed away the sheep for a goose.""Then we shall have roast goose to eat this year. You dear old man, youare always thinking of something to please me. This is delightful. We canlet the goose walk about with a string tied to her leg, so she will befatter still before we roast her.""But I gave away the goose for a chicken.""A chicken! Well, that was a good exchange," replied the woman. "Thechicken will lay eggs and hatch them, and we shall have chicks. we shallsoon have a poultry yard. Oh, this is just what I was wishing for.""Yes, but I exchanged the chicken for a sack of shriveled apples.""What! I really must give you a kiss for that!" exclaimed the wife. "Mydear, good husband, now I'll tell you something. Do you know, almost assoon as you left me this morning, I began to think of what I could giveyou nice for supper this evening, and then I thought of fried eggs andbacon, with sweet herbs. I had eggs and bacon, but I lacked the herbs, soI went over to the schoolmaster's. I knew they had plenty of herbs, butthe schoolmistress is very mean, although she can smile so sweetly. Ibegged her to lend me a handful of herbs. 'Lend!' she exclaimed, 'I havenothing to lend. Nothing at all grows in our garden, not even a shriveledapple. I could not even lend you a shriveled apple, my dear woman. But nowI can lend her ten, or a whole sackful, which I'm very glad of. It makesme laugh to think about it." And then she gave him a hearty kiss."Well, I like all this," said both the Englishmen. "always going downthe hill, and yet always merry. it's worth the money to see it." So theypaid a hundredweight of gold to the peasant, who, whatever he did, was notscolded but kissed.Yes, it always pays best when the wife sees and maintains that herhusband knows best, and whatever he does is right.That is a story which I heard when I was a child. and now you haveheard it too, and know that "what the old man does is always right."