Once upon a time there was a widow who had a son named Michel. One dayshe said to him, "Michel, I can no longer provide for you. You must go tothe village. And when you get there, you must say, 'A hundred every day! Ahundred every day!'"Michel said, "I will do that."Upon his arrival in the village a funeral coach came his way, and hecried out, "A hundred every day! A hundred every day!"Then the pallbearers came and gave him a beating. Michel returned homeand said to his mother, "Mother, I got beaten up."His mother asked, "Why?"Michel replied, "When I arrived in the village a funeral coach came myway, and I cried out, "A hundred every day! A hundred every day! Then thepallbearers came and gave me a beating.""You did a bad thing," responded his mother. "You should have cried andwrung your hands.""I can still do that," replied Michel.When he arrived in the village again, a wedding coach came his way, soMichel sat down and cried and wrung his hands. Then the members of thewedding party came and gave him a beating.Michel returned home again and said to his mother, "I got beaten upagain!""Why this time?" asked his mother."Well," said Michel, "when I arrived in the village a wedding coachcame my way, so I sat down and cried and wrung my hands. Then the membersof the wedding party came and gave me a beating.""You did a bad thing," responded the mother. "You should have dancedand shouted, 'Happiness and joy! Happiness and joy!'""I can still do that," replied Michel.When he arrived in the village this time, there was a house on fire. Heran up to it, dancing and shouting, "Happiness and joy! Happiness andjoy!" Then the men came and gave him a beating.Michel returned home again and said to his mother, "I got beaten upagain!""Why this time?" asked his mother.Michel said, "When I arrived in the village, there was a house on fire.I ran up to it dancing and shouting, 'Happiness and joy! Happiness andjoy!' Then the men came and gave me a beating.""You did a bad thing," responded the mother. "You should have thrown abucket of water on it.""I can still do that," replied Michel.When he arrived in the village this time, there was a wagon standingthere filled with beehives, so he took a bucket of water and poured in onthe bees. Then the beekeeper came and gave him a beating.Michel returned home again and said to his mother, "I got beaten upagain!""Oh, why this time?" asked his mother.Michel answered, "When I arrived in the village, there was a wagonstanding there filled with beehives, so I took a bucket of water andpoured in on the bees. Then the beekeeper came and gave me a beating."You did a bad thing," responded the mother. "You should have said,'Give me a sweet treat for my mother! Give me a sweet treat for mymother!'""I can still do that," replied Michel.When he arrived in the village this time, a manure wagon was just beingunloaded. Michel went up to it and said, "Give me a sweet treat for mymother! Give me a sweet treat for my mother!""Gladly!" said the workers. "Just hold out your cap." Then they filledhis cap full to the top.Then Michel went home and shouted, "Mother, mother, see what I've gothere! Mother, mother, see what I've got here!"Then the mother took hold of him and gave him a beating.