INTRODUCTIONIt is a strange thing, when I feel most fervently and most deeply,my hands and my tongue seem alike tied, so that I cannot rightlydescribe or accurately portray the thoughts that are rising within me.and yet I am a painter. my eye tells me as much as that, and all myfriends who have seen my sketches and fancies say the same.I am a poor lad, and live in one of the narrowest of lanes. butI do not want for light, as my room is high up in the house, with anextensive prospect over the neighbouring roofs. During the first fewdays I went to live in the town, I felt low spirited and solitaryenough. Instead of the forest and the green hills of former days, Ihad here only a forest of chimney pots to look out upon. And then Ihad not a single friend. not one familiar face greeted me.So one evening I sat at the window, in a desponding mood. andpresently I opened the casement and looked out. Oh, how my heartleaped up with joy! Here was a well known face at last a round,friendly countenance, the face of a good friend I had known at home.In, fact, it was the MOON that looked in upon me. He was quiteunchanged, the dear old Moon, and had the same face exactly that heused to show when he peered down upon me through the willow trees onthe moor. I kissed my hand to him over and over again, as he shone farinto my little room. and he, for his part, promised me that everyevening, when he came abroad, he would look in upon me for a fewmoments. This promise he has faithfully kept. It is a pity that he canonly stay such a short time when he comes. Whenever he appears, hetells me of one thing or another that he has seen on the previousnight, or on that same evening. "Just paint the scenes I describe toyou" this is what he said to me "and you will have a very prettypicture book." I have followed his injunction for many evenings. Icould make up a new "Thousand and One Nights," in my own way, out ofthese pictures, but the number might be too great, after all. Thepictures I have here given have not been chosen at random, butfollow in their proper order, just as they were described to me.Some great gifted painter, or some poet or musician, may makesomething more of them if he likes. what I have given here are onlyhasty sketches, hurriedly put upon the paper, with some of my ownthoughts, interspersed. for the Moon did not come to me everyevening a cloud sometimes hid his face from me.FIRST EVENING"Last night" I am quoting the Moon's own words "last night I wasgliding through the cloudless Indian sky. My face was mirrored inthe waters of the Ganges, and my beams strove to pierce through thethick intertwining boughs of the bananas, arching beneath me likethe tortoise's shell. Forth from the thicket tripped a Hindoo maid,light as a gazelle, beautiful as Eve. Airy and etherial as a vision,and yet sharply defined amid the surrounding shadows, stood thisdaughter of Hindostan: I could read on her delicate brow the thoughtthat had brought her hither. The thorny creeping plants tore hersandals, but for all that she came rapidly forward. The deer thathad come down to the river to quench her thirst, sprang by with astartled bound, for in her hand the maiden bore a lighted lamp. Icould see the blood in her delicate finger tips, as she spread themfor a screen before the dancing flame. She came down to the stream,and set the lamp upon the water, and let it float away. The flameflickered to and fro, and seemed ready to expire. but still the lampburned on, and the girl's black sparkling eyes, half veiled behindtheir long silken lashes, followed it with a gaze of earnestintensity. She knew that if the lamp continued to burn so long asshe could keep it in sight, her betrothed was still alive. but ifthe lamp was suddenly extinguished, he was dead. And the lamp burnedbravely on, and she fell on her knees, and prayed. Near her in thegrass lay a speckled snake, but she heeded it not she thought only ofBramah and of her betrothed. 'He lives!' she shouted joyfully, 'helives!' And from the mountains the echo came back upon her, 'helives!"SECOND EVENING"Yesterday," said the Moon to me, "I looked down upon a smallcourtyard surrounded on all sides by houses. In the courtyard sat aclucking hen with eleven chickens. and a pretty little girl wasrunning and jumping around them. The hen was frightened, and screamed,and spread out her wings over the little brood. Then the girl's fathercame out and scolded her. and I glided away and thought no more of thematter."But this evening, only a few minutes ago, I looked down intothe same courtyard. Everything was quiet. But presently the littlegirl came forth again, crept quietly to the hen house, pushed back thebolt, and slipped into the apartment of the hen and chickens. Theycried out loudly, and came fluttering down from their perches, and ranabout in dismay, and the little girl ran after them. I saw it quiteplainly, for I looked through a hole in the hen house wall. I wasangry with the willful child, and felt glad when her father came outand scolded her more violently than yesterday, holding her roughlyby the arm. she held down her head, and her blue eyes were full oflarge tears. 'What are you about here?' he asked. She wept and said,'I wanted to kiss the hen and beg her pardon for frightening heryesterday. but I was afraid to tell you.'"And the father kissed the innocent child's forehead, and I kissedher on the mouth and eyes."THIRD EVENING"In the narrow street round the corner yonder it is so narrowthat my beams can only glide for a minute along the walls of thehouse, but in that minute I see enough to learn what the world is madeof in that narrow street I saw a woman. Sixteen years ago thatwoman was a child, playing in the garden of the old parsonage, inthe country. The hedges of rose bush were old, and the flowers werefaded. They straggled wild over the paths, and the ragged branchesgrew up among the boughs of the apple trees. here and there were a fewroses still in bloom not so fair as the queen of flowers generallyappears, but still they had colour and scent too. The clergyman'slittle daughter appeared to me a far lovelier rose, as she sat onher stool under the straggling hedge, hugging and caressing her dollwith the battered pasteboard cheeks."Ten years afterwards I saw her again. I beheld her in asplendid ballroom: she was the beautiful bride of a rich merchant. Irejoiced at her happiness, and sought her on calm quiet evenings ah,nobody thinks of my clear eye and my silent glance! Alas! myrose ran wild, like the rose bushes in the garden of the parsonage.There are tragedies in every day life, and tonight I saw the lastact of one."She was lying in bed in a house in that narrow street: she wassick unto death, and the cruel landlord came up, and tore away thethin coverlet, her only protection against the cold. 'Get up!' saidhe. 'your face is enough to frighten one. Get up and dress yourself,give me money, or I'll turn you out into the street! Quick get up!'She answered, 'Alas! death is gnawing at my heart. Let me rest.' Buthe forced her to get up and bathe her face, and put a wreath ofroses in her hair. and he placed her in a chair at the window, witha candle burning beside her, and went away."I looked at her, and she was sitting motionless, with her handsin her lap. The wind caught the open window and shut it with acrash, so that a pane came clattering down in fragments. but still shenever moved. The curtain caught fire, and the flames played abouther face. and I saw that she was dead. There at the open window satthe dead woman, preaching a sermon against sin my poor faded rose outof the parsonage garden!"FOURTH EVENING"This evening I saw a German play acted," said the Moon. "It wasin a little town. A stable had been turned into a theatre. that isto say, the stable had been left standing, and had been turned intoprivate boxes, and all the timber work had been covered withcoloured paper. A little iron chandelier hung beneath the ceiling, andthat it might be made to disappear into the ceiling, as it does ingreat theatres, when the ting ting of the prompter's bell is heard,a great inverted tub has been placed just above it."'Ting ting!' and the little iron chandelier suddenly rose atleast half a yard and disappeared in the tub. and that was the signthat the play was going to begin. A young nobleman and his lady, whohappened to be passing through the little town, were present at theperformance, and consequently the house was crowded. But under thechandelier was a vacant space like a little crater: not a singlesoul sat there, for the tallow was dropping, drip, drip! I saweverything, for it was so warm in there that every loophole had beenopened. The male and female servants stood outside, peeping throughthe chinks, although a real policeman was inside, threatening themwith a stick. Close by the orchestra could be seen the noble youngcouple in two old arm chairs, which were usually occupied by hisworship the mayor and his lady. but these latter were to day obligedto content themselves with wooden forms, just as if they had beenordinary citizens. and the lady observed quietly to herself, 'Onesees, now, that there is rank above rank.' and this incident gave anair of extra festivity to the whole proceedings. The chandelier gavelittle leaps, the crowd got their knuckles rapped, and I, the Moon,was present at the performance from beginning to end."FIFTH EVENING"Yesterday," began the Moon, "I looked down upon the turmoil ofParis. My eye penetrated into an apartment of the Louvre. An oldgrandmother, poorly clad she belonged to the working class wasfollowing one of the under servants into the great emptythrone room, for this was the apartment she wanted to see that shewas resolved to see. it had cost her many a little sacrifice, and manya coaxing word, to penetrate thus far. She folded her thin hands,and looked round with an air of reverence, as if she had been in achurch."'Here it was!' she said, 'here!' and she approached the throne,from which hung the rich velvet fringed with gold lace. 'There,' sheexclaimed, 'there!' and she knelt and kissed the purple carpet. Ithink she was actually weeping."'But it was not this very velvet!' observed the footman, and asmile played about his mouth. 'True, but it was this very place,'replied the woman, 'and it must have looked just like this. 'It lookedso, and yet it did not,' observed the man: 'the windows were beatenin, and the doors were off their hinges, and there was blood uponthe floor.' 'But for all that you can say, my grandson died upon thethrone of France. Died!' mournfully repeated the old woman. I do notthink another word was spoken, and they soon quitted the hall. Theevening twilight faded and my light shone doubly vivid upon the richvelvet that covered the throne of France."Now who do you think this poor woman was? Listen, I will tell youa story."It happened, in the Revolution of July, on the evening of themost brilliantly victorious day, when every house was a fortress,every window a breastwork. The people stormed the Tuileries. Evenwomen and children were to be found among the combatants. Theypenetrated into the apartments and halls of the palace. A poorhalf grown boy in a ragged blouse fought among the older insurgents.Mortally wounded with several bayonet thrusts, he sank down. Thishappened in the throne room. They laid the bleeding youth upon thethrone of France, wrapped the velvet around his wounds, and hisblood streamed forth upon the imperial purple. There was a picture!The splendid hall, the fighting groups! A torn flag upon the ground,the tricolor was waving above the bayonets, and on the throne laythe poor lad with the pale glorified countenance, his eyes turnedtowards the sky, his limbs writhing in the death agony, his breastbare, and his poor tattered clothing half hidden by the rich velvetembroidered with silver lilies. At the boy's cradle a prophecy hadbeen spoken: 'He will die on the throne of France!' The mother's heartdreamt of a second Napoleon."My beams have kissed the wreath of immortelles on his grave,and this night they kissed the forehead of the old grandame, whilein a dream the picture floated before her which thou mayest draw thepoor boy on the throne of France."SIXTH EVENING"I've been in Upsala," said the Moon: "I looked down upon thegreat plain covered with coarse grass, and upon the barren fields. Imirrored my face in the Tyris river, while the steamboat drove thefish into the rushes. Beneath me floated the waves, throwing longshadows on the so called graves of Odin, Thor, and Friga. In thescanty turf that covers the hill side names have been cut. There is nomonument here, no memorial on which the traveller can have his namecarved, no rocky wall on whose surface he can get it painted. sovisitors have the turf cut away for that purpose. The naked earthpeers through in the form of great letters and names. these form anetwork over the whole hill. Here is an immortality, which laststill the fresh turf grows!"Up on the hill stood a man, a poet. He emptied the mead horn withthe broad silver rim, and murmured a name. He begged the winds notto betray him, but I heard the name. I knew it. A count's coronetsparkles above it, and therefore he did not speak it out. I smiled,for I knew that a poet's crown adorns his own name. The nobility ofEleanora d'Este is attached to the name of Tasso. And I also knowwhere the Rose of Beauty blooms!"Thus spake the Moon, and a cloud came between us. May no cloudseparate the poet from the rose!SEVENTH EVENING"Along the margin of the shore stretches a forest of firs andbeeches, and fresh and fragrant is this wood. hundreds of nightingalesvisit it every spring. Close beside it is the sea, the ever changingsea, and between the two is placed the broad high road. One carriageafter another rolls over it. but I did not follow them, for my eyeloves best to rest upon one point. A Hun's Grave lies there, and thesloe and blackthorn grow luxuriantly among the stones. Here is truepoetry in nature."And how do you think men appreciate this poetry? I will tellyou what I heard there last evening and during the night."First, two rich landed proprietors came driving by. 'Those areglorious trees!' said the first. 'Certainly. there are ten loads offirewood in each,' observed the other: 'it will be a hard winter,and last year we got fourteen dollars a load' and they were gone.'The road here is wretched,' observed another man who drove past.'That's the fault of those horrible trees,' replied his neighbour.'there is no free current of air. the wind can only come from thesea' and they were gone. The stage coach went rattling past. Allthe passengers were asleep at this beautiful spot. The postillion blewhis horn, but he only thought, 'I can play capitally. It sounds wellhere. I wonder if those in there like it?' and the stage coachvanished. Then two young fellows came gallopping up on horseback.There's youth and spirit in the blood here! thought I. and, indeed,they looked with a smile at the moss grown hill and thick forest. 'Ishould not dislike a walk here with the miller's Christine,' saidone and they flew past."The flowers scented the air. every breath of air was hushed. itseemed as if the sea were a part of the sky that stretched above thedeep valley. A carriage rolled by. Six people were sitting in it. Fourof them were asleep. the fifth was thinking of his new summer coat,which would suit him admirably. the sixth turned to the coachman andasked him if there were anything remarkable connected with yonder heapof stones. 'No,' replied the coachman, 'it's only a heap of stones.but the trees are remarkable.' 'How so?' 'Why I'll tell you how theyare very remarkable. You see, in winter, when the snow lies very deep,and has hidden the whole road so that nothing is to be seen, thosetrees serve me for a landmark. I steer by them, so as not to driveinto the sea. and you see that is why the trees are remarkable.'"Now came a painter. He spoke not a word, but his eyes sparkled.He began to whistle. At this the nightingales sang louder than ever.'Hold your tongues!' he cried testily. and he made accurate notes ofall the colours and transitions blue, and lilac, and dark brown.'That will make a beautiful picture,' he said. He took it in just as amirror takes in a view. and as he worked he whistled a march ofRossini. And last of all came a poor girl. She laid aside the burdenshe carried, and sat down to rest upon the Hun's Grave. Her palehandsome face was bent in a listening attitude towards the forest. Hereyes brightened, she gazed earnestly at the sea and the sky, her handswere folded, and I think she prayed, 'Our Father.' She herself couldnot understand the feeling that swept through her, but I know thatthis minute, and the beautiful natural scene, will live within hermemory for years, far more vividly and more truly than the paintercould portray it with his colours on paper. My rays followed hertill the morning dawn kissed her brow."EIGHTH EVENINGHeavy clouds obscured the sky, and the Moon did not make hisappearance at all. I stood in my little room, more lonely than ever,and looked up at the sky where he ought to have shown himself. Mythoughts flew far away, up to my great friend, who every eveningtold me such pretty tales, and showed me pictures. Yes, he has hadan experience indeed. He glided over the waters of the Deluge, andsmiled on Noah's ark just as he lately glanced down upon me, andbrought comfort and promise of a new world that was to spring forthfrom the old. When the Children of Israel sat weeping by the waters ofBabylon, he glanced mournfully upon the willows where hung thesilent harps. When Romeo climbed the balcony, and the promise oftrue love fluttered like a cherub toward heaven, the round Moonhung, half hidden among the dark cypresses, in the lucid air. He sawthe captive giant at St. Helena, looking from the lonely rock acrossthe wide ocean, while great thoughts swept through his soul. Ah!what tales the Moon can tell. Human life is like a story to him.To night I shall not see thee again, old friend. Tonight I can draw nopicture of the memories of thy visit. And, as I looked dreamilytowards the clouds, the sky became bright. There was a glancing light,and a beam from the Moon fell upon me. It vanished again, and darkclouds flew past: but still it was a greeting, a friendly good nightoffered to me by the Moon.NINTH EVENINGThe air was clear again. Several evenings had passed, and the Moonwas in the first quarter. Again he gave me an outline for a sketch.Listen to what he told me."I have followed the polar bird and the swimming whale to theeastern coast of Greenland. Gaunt ice covered rocks and dark cloudshung over a valley, where dwarf willows and barberry bushes stoodclothed in green. The blooming lychnis exhaled sweet odours. Mylight was faint, my face pale as the water lily that, torn from itsstem, has been drifting for weeks with the tide. The crown shapedNorthern Light burned fiercely in the sky. Its ring was broad, andfrom its circumference the rays shot like whirling shafts of fireacross the whole sky, flashing in changing radiance from green to red.The inhabitants of that icy region were assembling for dance andfestivity. but, accustomed to this glorious spectacle, they scarcelydeigned to glance at it. 'Let us leave the soul of the dead to theirball play with the heads of the walruses,' they thought in theirsuperstition, and they turned their whole attention to the song anddance. In the midst of the circle, and divested of his furry cloak,stood a Greenlander, with a small pipe, and he played and sang asong about catching the seal, and the chorus around chimed in with,'Eia, Eia, Ah.' And in their white furs they danced about in thecircle, till you might fancy it was a polar bear's ball."And now a Court of Judgment was opened. Those Greenlanders whohad quarrelled stepped forward, and the offended person chantedforth the faults of his adversary in an extempore song, turning themsharply into ridicule, to the sound of the pipe and the measure of thedance. The defendant replied with satire as keen, while the audiencelaughed, and gave their verdict. The rocks heaved, the glaciersmelted, and great masses of ice and snow came crashing down, shiveringto fragments as they fall. it was a glorious Greenland summer night. Ahundred paces away, under the open tent of hides, lay a sick man. Lifestill flowed through his warm blood, but still he was to die hehimself felt it, and all who stood round him knew it also. thereforehis wife was already sewing round him the shroud of furs, that shemight not afterwards be obliged to touch the dead body. And she asked,'Wilt thou be buried on the rock, in the firm snow? I will deck thespot with thy kayak, and thy arrows, and the angekokk shall dance overit. Or wouldst thou rather be buried in the sea?' 'In the sea,' hewhispered, and nodded with a mournful smile. 'Yes, it is a pleasantsummer tent, the sea,' observed the wife. 'Thousands of seals sportthere, the walrus shall lie at thy feet, and the hunt will be safe andmerry!' And the yelling children tore the outspread hide from thewindow hole, that the dead man might be carried to the ocean, thebillowy ocean, that had given him food in life, and that now, indeath, was to afford him a place of rest. For his monument, he had thefloating, ever changing icebergs, whereon the seal sleeps, while thestorm bird flies round their gleaming summits!"TENTH EVENING"I knew an old maid," said the Moon. "Every winter she wore awrapper of yellow satin, and it always remained new, and was theonly fashion she followed. In summer she always wore the same strawhat, and I verily believe the very same gray blue dress."She never went out, except across the street to an old femalefriend. and in later years she did not even take this walk, for theold friend was dead. In her solitude my old maid was always busy atthe window, which was adorned in summer with pretty flowers, and inwinter with cress, grown upon felt. During the last months I saw herno more at the window, but she was still alive. I knew that, for I hadnot yet seen her begin the 'long journey,' of which she often spokewith her friend. 'Yes, yes,' she was in the habit of saying, when Icome to die I shall take a longer journey than I have made my wholelife long. Our family vault is six miles from here. I shall be carriedthere, and shall sleep there among my family and relatives.' Lastnight a van stopped at the house. A coffin was carried out, and then Iknew that she was dead. They placed straw round the coffin, and thevan drove away. There slept the quiet old lady, who had not gone outof her house once for the last year. The van rolled out through thetown gate as briskly as if it were going for a pleasant excursion.On the high road the pace was quicker yet. The coachman lookednervously round every now and then I fancy he half expected to seeher sitting on the coffin, in her yellow satin wrapper. And because hewas startled, he foolishly lashed his horses, while he held thereins so tightly that the poor beasts were in a foam: they wereyoung and fiery. A hare jumped across the road and startled them,and they fairly ran away. The old sober maiden, who had for yearsand years moved quietly round and round in a dull circle, was now,in death, rattled over stock and stone on the public highway. Thecoffin in its covering of straw tumbled out of the van, and was lefton the high road, while horses, coachman, and carriage flew past inwild career. The lark rose up carolling from the field, twittering hermorning lay over the coffin, and presently perched upon it, pickingwith her beak at the straw covering, as though she would tear it up.The lark rose up again, singing gaily, and I withdrew behind the redmorning clouds."ELEVENTH EVENING"I will give you a picture of Pompeii," said the Moon. "I was inthe suburb in the Street of Tombs, as they call it, where the fairmonuments stand, in the spot where, ages ago, the merry youths,their temples bound with rosy wreaths, danced with the fair sisters ofLais. Now, the stillness of death reigned around. Germanmercenaries, in the Neapolitan service, kept guard, played cards,and diced. and a troop of strangers from beyond the mountains cameinto the town, accompanied by a sentry. They wanted to see the citythat had risen from the grave illumined by my beams. and I showed themthe wheel ruts in the streets paved with broad lava slabs. I showedthem the names on the doors, and the signs that hung there yet: theysaw in the little courtyard the basins of the fountains, ornamentedwith shells. but no jet of water gushed upwards, no songs soundedforth from the richly painted chambers, where the bronze dog keptthe door."It was the City of the Dead. only Vesuvius thundered forth hiseverlasting hymn, each separate verse of which is called by men aneruption. We went to the temple of Venus, built of snow whitemarble, with its high altar in front of the broad steps, and theweeping willows sprouting freshly forth among the pillars. The air wastransparent and blue, and black Vesuvius formed the background, withfire ever shooting forth from it, like the stem of the pine tree.Above it stretched the smoky cloud in the silence of the night, likethe crown of the pine, but in a blood red illumination. Among thecompany was a lady singer, a real and great singer. I have witnessedthe homage paid to her in the greatest cities of Europe. When theycame to the tragic theatre, they all sat down on the amphitheatresteps, and thus a small part of the house was occupied by an audience,as it had been many centuries ago. The stage still stood unchanged,with its walled side scenes, and the two arches in the background,through which the beholders saw the same scene that had been exhibitedin the old times a scene painted by nature herself, namely, themountains between Sorento and Amalfi. The singer gaily mounted theancient stage, and sang. The place inspired her, and she reminded meof a wild Arab horse, that rushes headlong on with snorting nostrilsand flying mane her song was so light and yet so firm. Anon I thoughtof the mourning mother beneath the cross at Golgotha, so deep wasthe expression of pain. And, just as it had done thousands of yearsago, the sound of applause and delight now filled the theatre. 'Happy,gifted creature!' all the hearers exclaimed. Five minutes more, andthe stage was empty, the company had vanished, and not a sound morewas heard all were gone. But the ruins stood unchanged, as theywill stand when centuries shall have gone by, and when none shall knowof the momentary applause and of the triumph of the fair songstress.when all will be forgotten and gone, and even for me this hour will bebut a dream of the past."TWELFTH EVENING"I looked through the windows of an editor's house," said theMoon. "It was somewhere in Germany. I saw handsome furniture, manybooks, and a chaos of newspapers. Several young men were present:the editor himself stood at his desk, and two little books, both byyoung authors, were to be noticed. 'This one has been sent to me,'said he. 'I have not read it yet. what think you of the contents?''Oh,' said the person addressed he was a poet himself 'it is goodenough. a little broad, certainly. but, you see, the author is stillyoung. The verses might be better, to be sure. the thoughts are sound,though there is certainly a good deal of common place among them.But what will you have? You can't be always getting something new.That he'll turn out anything great I don't believe, but you may safelypraise him. He is well read, a remarkable Oriental scholar, and hasa good judgment. It was he who wrote that nice review of my'Reflections on Domestic Life.' We must be lenient towards the youngman.""'But he is a complete hack!' objected another of the gentlemen.'Nothing worse in poetry than mediocrity, and he certainly does not gobeyond this.'"'Poor fellow,' observed a third, 'and his aunt is so happyabout him. It was she, Mr. Editor, who got together so manysubscribers for your last translation.'"'Ah, the good woman! Well, I have noticed the book briefly.Undoubted talent a welcome offering a flower in the garden ofpoetry prettily brought out and so on. But this other book Isuppose the author expects me to purchase it? I hear it is praised. Hehas genius, certainly: don't you think so?'"'Yes, all the world declares as much,' replied the poet, 'butit has turned out rather wildly. The punctuation of the book, inparticular, is very eccentric.'"'It will be good for him if we pull him to pieces, and angerhim a little, otherwise he will get too good an opinion of himself.'"'But that would be unfair,' objected the fourth. 'Let us not carpat little faults, but rejoice over the real and abundant good thatwe find here: he surpasses all the rest.'"'Not so. If he is a true genius, he can bear the sharp voice ofcensure. There are people enough to praise him. Don't let us quiteturn his head.'"'Decided talent,' wrote the editor, 'with the usual carelessness.that he can write incorrect verses may be seen in page 25, where thereare two false quantities. We recommend him to study the ancients,etc.'"I went away," continued the Moon, "and looked through the windowsin the aunt's house. There sat the be praised poet, the tame one.all the guests paid homage to him, and he was happy."I sought the other poet out, the wild one. him also I found ina great assembly at his patron's, where the tame poet's book was beingdiscussed."'I shall read yours also,' said Maecenas. 'but to speak honestly youknow I never hide my opinion from you I don't expect much fromit, for you are much too wild, too fantastic. But it must be allowedthat, as a man, you are highly respectable.'"A young girl sat in a corner. and she read in a book these words:"'In the dust lies genius and glory,But ev'ry day talent will pay.It's only the old, old story,But the piece is repeated each day.'"THIRTEENTH EVENINGThe Moon said, "Beside the woodland path there are two smallfarm houses. The doors are low, and some of the windows are placedquite high, and others close to the ground. and whitethorn andbarberry bushes grow around them. The roof of each house isovergrown with moss and with yellow flowers and houseleek. Cabbage andpotatoes are the only plants cultivated in the gardens, but out of thehedge there grows a willow tree, and under this willow tree sat alittle girl, and she sat with her eyes fixed upon the old oak treebetween the two huts."It was an old withered stem. It had been sawn off at the top, anda stork had built his nest upon it. and he stood in this nest clappingwith his beak. A little boy came and stood by the girl's side: theywere brother and sister."'What are you looking at?' he asked."'I'm watching the stork,' she replied: 'our neighbors told methat he would bring us a little brother or sister to day. let us watchto see it come!'"'The stork brings no such things,' the boy declared, 'you maybe sure of that. Our neighbor told me the same thing, but shelaughed when she said it, and so I asked her if she could say 'On myhonor,' and she could not. and I know by that the story about thestorks is not true, and that they only tell it to us children forfun.'"'But where do babies come from, then?' asked the girl."'Why, an angel from heaven brings them under his cloak, but noman can see him. and that's why we never know when he brings them.'"At that moment there was a rustling in the branches of the willowtree, and the children folded their hands and looked at one another:it was certainly the angel coming with the baby. They took eachother's hand, and at that moment the door of one of the houses opened,and the neighbour appeared."'Come in, you two,' she said. 'See what the stork has brought. Itis a little brother.'"And the children nodded gravely at one another, for they had feltquite sure already that the baby was come."FOURTEENTH EVENING"I was gliding over the Luneburg Heath," the Moon said. "Alonely hut stood by the wayside, a few scanty bushes grew near it, anda nightingale who had lost his way sang sweetly. He died in thecoldness of the night: it was his farewell song that I heard."The morning dawn came glimmering red. I saw a caravan of emigrantpeasant families who were bound to Hamburgh, there to take ship forAmerica, where fancied prosperity would bloom for them. The motherscarried their little children at their backs, the elder onestottered by their sides, and a poor starved horse tugged at a cartthat bore their scanty effects. The cold wind whistled, andtherefore the little girl nestled closer to the mother, who, lookingup at my decreasing disc, thought of the bitter want at home, andspoke of the heavy taxes they had not been able to raise. The wholecaravan thought of the same thing. therefore, the rising dawn seemedto them a message from the sun, of fortune that was to gleambrightly upon them. They heard the dying nightingale sing. it was nofalse prophet, but a harbinger of fortune. The wind whistled,therefore they did not understand that the nightingale sung, 'Fareaway over the sea! Thou hast paid the long passage with all that wasthine, and poor and helpless shalt thou enter Canaan. Thou must sellthyself, thy wife, and thy children. But your griefs shall not lastlong. Behind the broad fragrant leaves lurks the goddess of Death, andher welcome kiss shall breathe fever into thy blood. Fare away, fareaway, over the heaving billows.' And the caravan listened well pleasedto the song of the nightingale, which seemed to promise goodfortune. Day broke through the light clouds. country people wentacross the heath to church. the black gowned women with their whitehead dresses looked like ghosts that had stepped forth from the churchpictures. All around lay a wide dead plain, covered with faded brownheath, and black charred spaces between the white sand hills. Thewomen carried hymn books, and walked into the church. Oh, pray, prayfor those who are wandering to find graves beyond the foamingbillows."FIFTEENTH EVENING"I know a Pulcinella," the Moon told me. "The public applaudvociferously directly they see him. Every one of his movements iscomic, and is sure to throw the house into convulsions of laughter.and yet there is no art in it all it is complete nature. When hewas yet a little boy, playing about with other boys, he was alreadyPunch. Nature had intended him for it, and had provided him with ahump on his back, and another on his breast. but his inward man, hismind, on the contrary, was richly furnished. No one could surpasshim in depth of feeling or in readiness of intellect. The theatrewas his ideal world. If he had possessed a slender well shaped figure,he might have been the first tragedian on any stage. the heroic, thegreat, filled his soul. and yet he had to become a Pulcinella. Hisvery sorrow and melancholy did but increase the comic dryness of hissharply cut features, and increased the laughter of the audience,who showered plaudits on their favourite. The lovely Columbine wasindeed kind and cordial to him. but she preferred to marry theHarlequin. It would have been too ridiculous if beauty and uglinesshad in reality paired together."When Pulcinella was in very bad spirits, she was the only one whocould force a hearty burst of laughter, or even a smile from him:first she would be melancholy with him, then quieter, and at lastquite cheerful and happy. 'I know very well what is the matter withyou,' she said. 'yes, you're in love!' And he could not help laughing.'I and Love," he cried, "that would have an absurd look. How thepublic would shout!' 'Certainly, you are in love,' she continued.and added with a comic pathos, 'and I am the person you are in lovewith.' You see, such a thing may be said when it is quite out of thequestion and, indeed, Pulcinella burst out laughing, and gave aleap into the air, and his melancholy was forgotten."And yet she had only spoken the truth. He did love her, loveher adoringly, as he loved what was great and lofty in art. At herwedding he was the merriest among the guests, but in the stillnessof night he wept: if the public had seen his distorted face then, theywould have applauded rapturously."And a few days ago, Columbine died. On the day of the funeral,Harlequin was not required to show himself on the boards, for he was adisconsolate widower. The director had to give a very merry piece,that the public might not too painfully miss the pretty Columbineand the agile Harlequin. Therefore Pulcinella had to be moreboisterous and extravagant than ever. and he danced and capered,with despair in his heart. and the audience yelled, and shouted'bravo, bravissimo!' Pulcinella was actually called before thecurtain. He was pronounced inimitable."But last night the hideous little fellow went out of the town,quite alone, to the deserted churchyard. The wreath of flowers onColumbine's grave was already faded, and he sat down there. It was astudy for a painter. As he sat with his chin on his hands, his eyesturned up towards me, he looked like a grotesque monument a Punchon a grave peculiar and whimsical! If the people could have seentheir favourite, they would have cried as usual, 'Bravo, Pulcinella.bravo, bravissimo!'"SIXTEENTH EVENINGHear what the Moon told me. "I have seen the cadet who had justbeen made an officer put on his handsome uniform for the first time. Ihave seen the young bride in her wedding dress, and the princessgirl wife happy in her gorgeous robes. but never have I seen afelicity equal to that of a little girl of four years old, whom Iwatched this evening. She had received a new blue dress, and a newpink hat, the splendid attire had just been put on, and all werecalling for a candle, for my rays, shining in through the windows ofthe room, were not bright enough for the occasion, and furtherillumination was required. There stood the little maid, stiff andupright as a doll, her arms stretched painfully straight out away fromthe dress, and her fingers apart. and oh, what happiness beamed fromher eyes, and from her whole countenance! 'To morrow you shall goout in your new clothes,' said her mother. and the little one lookedup at her hat, and down at her frock, and smiled brightly. 'Mother,'she cried, 'what will the little dogs think, when they see me in thesesplendid new things?'"SEVENTEENTH EVENING"I have spoken to you of Pompeii," said the Moon. "that corpseof a city, exposed in the view of living towns: I know another sightstill more strange, and this is not the corpse, but the spectre of acity. Whenever the jetty fountains splash into the marble basins, theyseem to me to be telling the story of the floating city. Yes, thespouting water may tell of her, the waves of the sea may sing of herfame! On the surface of the ocean a mist often rests, and that isher widow's veil. The bridegroom of the sea is dead, his palace andhis city are his mausoleum! Dost thou know this city? She has neverheard the rolling of wheels or the hoof tread of horses in herstreets, through which the fish swim, while the black gondola glidesspectrally over the green water. I will show you the place," continuedthe Moon, "the largest square in it, and you will fancy yourselftransported into the city of a fairy tale. The grass grows rankamong the broad flagstones, and in the morning twilight thousands oftame pigeons flutter around the solitary lofty tower. On three sidesyou find yourself surrounded by cloistered walks. In these thesilent Turk sits smoking his long pipe, the handsome Greek leansagainst the pillar and gazes at the upraised trophies and lofty masts,memorials of power that is gone. The flags hang down like mourningscarves. A girl rests there: she has put down her heavy pails filledwith water, the yoke with which she has carried them rests on one ofher shoulders, and she leans against the mast of victory. That isnot a fairy palace you see before you yonder, but a church: the gildeddomes and shining orbs flash back my beams. the glorious bronze horsesup yonder have made journeys, like the bronze horse in the fairy tale:they have come hither, and gone hence, and have returned again. Do younotice the variegated splendour of the walls and windows? It looksas if Genius had followed the caprices of a child, in the adornment ofthese singular temples. Do you see the winged lion on the pillar?The gold glitters still, but his wings are tied the lion is dead, forthe king of the sea is dead. the great halls stand desolate, and wheregorgeous paintings hung of yore, the naked wall now peers through. Thelazzarone sleeps under the arcade, whose pavement in old times wasto be trodden only by the feet of high nobility. From the deepwells, and perhaps from the prisons by the Bridge of Sighs, rise theaccents of woe, as at the time when the tambourine was heard in thegay gondolas, and the golden ring was cast from the Bucentaur toAdria, the queen of the seas. Adria! shroud thyself in mists. letthe veil of thy widowhood shroud thy form, and clothe in the weedsof woe the mausoleum of thy bridegroom the marble, spectral Venice."EIGHTEENTH EVENING"I looked down upon a great theatre," said the Moon. "The housewas crowded, for a new actor was to make his first appearance thatnight. My rays glided over a little window in the wall, and I saw apainted face with the forehead pressed against the panes. It was thehero of the evening. The knighly beard curled crisply about thechin. but there were tears in the man's eyes, for he had been hissedoff, and indeed with reason. The poor Incapable! But Incapables cannotbe admitted into the empire of Art. He had deep feeling, and loved hisart enthusiastically, but the art loved not him. The prompter's bellsounded. 'the hero enters with a determined air,' so ran the stagedirection in his part, and he had to appear before an audience whoturned him into ridicule. When the piece was over, I saw a formwrapped in a mantle, creeping down the steps: it was the vanquishedknight of the evening. The scene shifters whispered to one another,and I followed the poor fellow home to his room. To hang one's self isto die a mean death, and poison is not always at hand, I know. buthe thought of both. I saw how he looked at his pale face in the glass,with eyes half closed, to see if he should look well as a corpse. Aman may be very unhappy, and yet exceedingly affected. He thought ofdeath, of suicide. I believe he pitied himself, for he weptbitterly, and when a man has had his cry out he doesn't kill himself."Since that time a year had rolled by. Again a play was to beacted, but in a little theatre, and by a poor strolling company. AgainI saw the well remembered face, with the painted cheeks and thecrisp beard. He looked up at me and smiled. and yet he had been hissedoff only a minute before hissed off from a wretched theatre, by amiserable audience. And tonight a shabby hearse rolled out of thetown gate. It was a suicide our painted, despised hero. The driver ofthe hearse was the only person present, for no one followed exceptmy beams. In a corner of the churchyard the corpse of the suicidewas shovelled into the earth, and nettles will soon be growingrankly over his grave, and the sexton will throw thorns and weeds fromthe other graves upon it."NINETEENTH EVENING"I come from Rome," said the Moon. "In the midst of the city, uponone of the seven hills, lie the ruins of the imperial palace. The wildfig tree grows in the clefts of the wall, and covers the nakednessthereof with its broad grey green leaves. trampling among heaps ofrubbish, the ass treads upon green laurels, and rejoices over the rankthistles. From this spot, whence the eagles of Rome once flewabroad, whence they 'came, saw, and conquered,' our door leads intoa little mean house, built of clay between two pillars. the wildvine hangs like a mourning garland over the crooked window. An oldwoman and her little granddaughter live there: they rule now in thepalace of the Caesars, and show to strangers the remains of its pastglories. Of the splendid throne hall only a naked wall yet stands, anda black cypress throws its dark shadow on the spot where the throneonce stood. The dust lies several feet deep on the broken pavement.and the little maiden, now the daughter of the imperial palace,often sits there on her stool when the evening bells ring. The keyholeof the door close by she calls her turret window. through this she cansee half Rome, as far as the mighty cupola of St. Peter's."On this evening, as usual, stillness reigned around. and in thefull beam of my light came the little granddaughter. On her head shecarried an earthen pitcher of antique shape filled with water. Herfeet were bare, her short frock and her white sleeves were torn. Ikissed her pretty round shoulders, her dark eyes, and black shininghair. She mounted the stairs. they were steep, having been made upof rough blocks of broken marble and the capital of a fallen pillar.The coloured lizards slipped away, startled, from before her feet, butshe was not frightened at them. Already she lifted her hand to pullthe door bell a hare's foot fastened to a string formed thebell handle of the imperial palace. She paused for a moment of whatmight she be thinking? Perhaps of the beautiful Christ child,dressed in gold and silver, which was down below in the chapel,where the silver candlesticks gleamed so bright, and where herlittle friends sung the hymns in which she also could join? I knownot. Presently she moved again she stumbled: the earthen vesselfell from her head, and broke on the marble steps. She burst intotears. The beautiful daughter of the imperial palace wept over theworthless broken pitcher. with her bare feet she stood thereweeping. and dared not pull the string, the bell rope of theimperial palace!"TWENTIETH EVENINGIt was more than a fortnight since the Moon had shone. Now hestood once more, round and bright, above the clouds, moving slowlyonward. Hear what the Moon told me."From a town in Fezzan I followed a caravan. On the margin ofthe sandy desert, in a salt plain, that shone like a frozen lake,and was only covered in spots with light drifting sand, a halt wasmade. The eldest of the company the water gourd hung at his girdle,and on his head was a little bag of unleavened bread drew a square inthe sand with his staff, and wrote in it a few words out of the Koran,and then the whole caravan passed over the consecrated spot. A youngmerchant, a child of the East, as I could tell by his eye and hisfigure, rode pensively forward on his white snorting steed. Was hethinking, perchance, of his fair young wife? It was only two daysago that the camel, adorned with furs and with costly shawls, hadcarried her, the beauteous bride, round the walls of the city, whiledrums and cymbals had sounded, the women sang, and festive shots, ofwhich the bridegroom fired the greatest number, resounded round thecamel. and now he was journeying with the caravan across the desert."For many nights I followed the train. I saw them rest by thewellside among the stunted palms. they thrust the knife into thebreast of the camel that had fallen, and roasted its flesh by thefire. My beams cooled the glowing sands, and showed them the blackrocks, dead islands in the immense ocean of sand. No hostile tribesmet them in their pathless route, no storms arose, no columns ofsand whirled destruction over the journeying caravan. At home thebeautiful wife prayed for her husband and her father. 'Are they dead?'she asked of my golden crescent. 'Are they dead?' she cried to my fulldisc. Now the desert lies behind them. This evening they sit beneaththe lofty palm trees, where the crane flutters round them with itslong wings, and the pelican watches them from the branches of themimosa. The luxuriant herbage is trampled down, crushed by the feet ofelephants. A troop of negroes are returning from a market in theinterior of the land: the women, with copper buttons in their blackhair, and decked out in clothes dyed with indigo, drive theheavily laden oxen, on whose backs slumber the naked black children. Anegro leads a young lion which he has brought, by a string. Theyapproach the caravan. the young merchant sits pensive andmotionless, thinking of his beautiful wife, dreaming, in the land ofthe blacks, of his white lily beyond the desert. He raises his head,and " But at this moment a cloud passed before the Moon, and thenanother. I heard nothing more from him this evening.TWENTY FIRST EVENING"I saw a little girl weeping," said the Moon. "she was weepingover the depravity of the world. She had received a most beautifuldoll as a present. Oh, that was a glorious doll, so fair and delicate!She did not seem created for the sorrows of this world. But thebrothers of the little girl, those great naughty boys, had set thedoll high up in the branches of a tree and had run away."The little girl could not reach up to the doll, and could nothelp her down, and that is why she was crying. The doll must certainlyhave been crying too, for she stretched out her arms among the greenbranches, and looked quite mournful. Yes, these are the troubles oflife of which the little girl had often heard tell. Alas, poor doll!it began to grow dark already. and suppose night were to come oncompletely! Was she to be left sitting on the bough all night long?No, the little maid could not make up her mind to that. 'I'll staywith you,' she said, although she felt anything but happy in her mind.She could almost fancy she distinctly saw little gnomes, with theirhigh crowned hats, sitting in the bushes. and further back in the longwalk, tall spectres appeared to be dancing. They came nearer andnearer, and stretched out their hands towards the tree on which thedoll sat. they laughed scornfully, and pointed at her with theirfingers. Oh, how frightened the little maid was! 'But if one has notdone anything wrong,' she thought, 'nothing evil can harm one. Iwonder if I have done anything wrong?' And she considered. 'Oh, yes! Ilaughed at the poor duck with the red rag on her leg. she limped alongso funnily, I could not help laughing. but it's a sin to laugh atanimals.' And she looked up at the doll. 'Did you laugh at the ducktoo?' she asked. and it seemed as if the doll shook her head."TWENTY SECOND EVENING"I looked down upon Tyrol," said the Moon, "and my beams causedthe dark pines to throw long shadows upon the rocks. I looked at thepictures of St. Christopher carrying the Infant Jesus that are paintedthere upon the walls of the houses, colossal figures reaching from theground to the roof. St. Florian was represented pouring water on theburning house, and the Lord hung bleeding on the great cross by thewayside. To the present generation these are old pictures, but I sawwhen they were put up, and marked how one followed the other. On thebrow of the mountain yonder is perched, like a swallow's nest, alonely convent of nuns. Two of the sisters stood up in the towertolling the bell. they were both young, and therefore their glancesflew over the mountain out into the world. A travelling coach passedby below, the postillion wound his horn, and the poor nuns lookedafter the carriage for a moment with a mournful glance, and a teargleamed in the eyes of the younger one. And the horn sounded faint andmore faintly, and the convent bell drowned its expiring echoes."TWENTY THIRD EVENINGHear what the Moon told me. "Some years ago, here in Copenhagen, Ilooked through the window of a mean little room. The father and motherslept, but the little son was not asleep. I saw the flowered cottoncurtains of the bed move, and the child peep forth. At first I thoughthe was looking at the great clock, which was gaily painted in redand green. At the top sat a cuckoo, below hung the heavy leadenweights, and the pendulum with the polished disc of metal went toand fro, and said 'tick, tick.' But no, he was not looking at theclock, but at his mother's spinning wheel, that stood justunderneath it. That was the boy's favourite piece of furniture, but hedared not touch it, for if he meddled with it he got a rap on theknuckles. For hours together, when his mother was spinning, he wouldsit quietly by her side, watching the murmuring spindle and therevolving wheel, and as he sat he thought of many things. Oh, if hemight only turn the wheel himself! Father and mother were asleep. helooked at them, and looked at the spinning wheel, and presently alittle naked foot peered out of the bed, and then a second foot, andthen two little white legs. There he stood. He looked round once more,to see if father and mother were still asleep yes, they slept. andnow he crept softly, softly, in his short little nightgown, to thespinning wheel, and began to spin. The thread flew from the wheel, andthe wheel whirled faster and faster. I kissed his fair hair and hisblue eyes, it was such a pretty picture."At that moment the mother awoke. The curtain shook, she lookedforth, and fancied she saw a gnome or some other kind of littlespectre. 'In Heaven's name!' she cried, and aroused her husband in afrightened way. He opened his eyes, rubbed them with his hands, andlooked at the brisk little lad. 'Why, that is Bertel,' said he. And myeye quitted the poor room, for I have so much to see. At the samemoment I looked at the halls of the Vatican, where the marble gods areenthroned. I shone upon the group of the Laocoon. the stone seemedto sigh. I pressed a silent kiss on the lips of the Muses, and theyseemed to stir and move. But my rays lingered longest about the Nilegroup with the colossal god. Leaning against the Sphinx, he lies therethoughtful and meditative, as if he were thinking on the rollingcenturies. and little love gods sport with him and with thecrocodiles. In the horn of plenty sat with folded arms a little tinylove god, contemplating the great solemn river god, a true pictureof the boy at the spinning wheel the features were exactly thesame. Charming and life like stood the little marble form, and yet thewheel of the year has turned more than a thousand times since the timewhen it sprang forth from the stone. Just as often as the boy in thelittle room turned the spinning wheel had the great wheel murmured,before the age could again call forth marble gods equal to those heafterwards formed."Years have passed since all this happened," the Moon went on tosay. "Yesterday I looked upon a bay on the eastern coast of Denmark.Glorious woods are there, and high trees, an old knightly castlewith red walls, swans floating in the ponds, and in the backgroundappears, among orchards, a little town with a church. Many boats,the crews all furnished with torches, glided over the silentexpanse but these fires had not been kindled for catching fish, foreverything had a festive look. Music sounded, a song was sung, andin one of the boats the man stood erect to whom homage was paid by therest, a tall sturdy man, wrapped in a cloak. He had blue eyes and longwhite hair. I knew him, and thought of the Vatican, and of the groupof the Nile, and the old marble gods. I thought of the simple littleroom where little Bertel sat in his night shirt by the spinning wheel.The wheel of time has turned, and new gods have come forth from thestone. From the boats there arose a shout: 'Hurrah, hurrah forBertel Thorwaldsen!'"TWENTY FOURTH EVENING"I will now give you a picture from Frankfort," said the Moon."I especially noticed one building there. It was not the house inwhich Goethe was born, nor the old Council House, through whose gratedwindows peered the horns of the oxen that were roasted and given tothe people when the emperors were crowned. No, it was a private house,plain in appearance, and painted green. It stood near the old Jews'Street. It was Rothschild's house."I looked through the open door. The staircase was brilliantlylighted: servants carrying wax candles in massive silvercandlesticks stood there, and bowed low before an old woman, who wasbeing brought downstairs in a litter. The proprietor of the housestood bare headed, and respectfully imprinted a kiss on the hand ofthe old woman. She was his mother. She nodded in a friendly mannerto him and to the servants, and they carried her into the darknarrow street, into a little house, that was her dwelling. Here herchildren had been born, from hence the fortune of the family hadarisen. If she deserted the despised street and the little house,fortune would also desert her children. That was her firm belief."The Moon told me no more. his visit this evening was far tooshort. But I thought of the old woman in the narrow despised street.It would have cost her but a word, and a brilliant house would havearisen for her on the banks of the Thames a word, and a villa wouldhave been prepared in the Bay of Naples."If I deserted the lowly house, where the fortunes of my sonsfirst began to bloom, fortune would desert them!" It was asuperstition, but a superstition of such a class, that he who knowsthe story and has seen this picture, need have only two words placedunder the picture to make him understand it. and these two wordsare: "A mother."TWENTY FIFTH EVENING"It was yesterday, in the morning twilight" these are the wordsthe Moon told me "in the great city no chimney was yet smoking andit was just at the chimneys that I was looking. Suddenly a little heademerged from one of them, and then half a body, the arms resting onthe rim of the chimney pot. 'Ya hip! ya hip!' cried a voice. It wasthe little chimney sweeper, who had for the first time in his lifecrept through a chimney, and stuck out his head at the top. 'Ya hip!ya hip' Yes, certainly that was a very different thing to creepingabout in the dark narrow chimneys! the air blew so fresh, and he couldlook over the whole city towards the green wood. The sun was justrising. It shone round and great, just in his face, that beamed withtriumph, though it was very prettily blacked with soot."'The whole town can see me now,' he exclaimed, 'and the mooncan see me now, and the sun too. Ya hip! ya hip!' And he flourishedhis broom in triumph."TWENTY SIXTH EVENING"Last night I looked down upon a town in China," said the Moon."My beams irradiated the naked walls that form the streets there.Now and then, certainly, a door is seen. but it is locked, for whatdoes the Chinaman care about the outer world? Close wooden shutterscovered the windows behind the walls of the houses. but through thewindows of the temple a faint light glimmered. I looked in, and sawthe quaint decorations within. From the floor to the ceilingpictures are painted, in the most glaring colours, and richlygilt pictures representing the deeds of the gods here on earth. Ineach niche statues are placed, but they are almost entirely hidden by thecoloured drapery and the banners that hang down. Before each idol (andthey are all made of tin) stood a little altar of holy water, withflowers and burning wax lights on it. Above all the rest stood Fo, thechief deity, clad in a garment of yellow silk, for yellow is herethe sacred colour. At the foot of the altar sat a living being, ayoung priest. He appeared to be praying, but in the midst of hisprayer he seemed to fall into deep thought, and this must have beenwrong, for his cheeks glowed and he held down his head. PoorSoui Hong! Was he, perhaps, dreaming of working in the little flowergarden behind the high street wall? And did that occupation seemmore agreeable to him than watching the wax lights in the temple? Ordid he wish to sit at the rich feast, wiping his mouth with silverpaper between each course? Or was his sin so great that, if he daredutter it, the Celestial Empire would punish it with death? Had histhoughts ventured to fly with the ships of the barbarians, to theirhomes in far distant England? No, his thoughts did not fly so far, andyet they were sinful, sinful as thoughts born of young hearts,sinful here in the temple, in the presence of Fo and the other holygods."I know whither his thoughts had strayed. At the farther end ofthe city, on the flat roof paved with porcelain, on which stood thehandsome vases covered with painted flowers, sat the beauteous Pu,of the little roguish eyes, of the full lips, and of the tiny feet.The tight shoe pained her, but her heart pained her still more. Shelifted her graceful round arm, and her satin dress rustled. Before herstood a glass bowl containing four gold fish. She stirred the bowlcarefully with a slender lacquered stick, very slowly, for she, too,was lost in thought. Was she thinking, perchance, how the fisheswere richly clothed in gold, how they lived calmly and peacefully intheir crystal world, how they were regularly fed, and yet how muchhappier they might be if they were free? Yes, that she could wellunderstand, the beautiful Pu. Her thoughts wandered away from herhome, wandered to the temple, but not for the sake of holy things.Poor Pu! Poor Soui hong!"Their earthly thoughts met, but my cold beam lay between the two,like the sword of the cherub."TWENTY SEVENTH EVENING"The air was calm," said the Moon. "the water was transparent asthe purest ether through which I was gliding, and deep below thesurface I could see the strange plants that stretched up their longarms towards me like the gigantic trees of the forest. The fishes swamto and fro above their tops. High in the air a flight of wild swanswere winging their way, one of which sank lower and lower, withwearied pinions, his eyes following the airy caravan, that meltedfarther and farther into the distance. With outspread wings he sankslowly, as a soap bubble sinks in the still air, till he touched thewater. At length his head lay back between his wings, and silentlyhe lay there, like a white lotus flower upon the quiet lake. And agentle wind arose, and crisped the quiet surface, which gleamed likethe clouds that poured along in great broad waves. and the swan raisedhis head, and the glowing water splashed like blue fire over hisbreast and back. The morning dawn illuminated the red clouds, the swanrose strengthened, and flew towards the rising sun, towards the bluishcoast whither the caravan had gone. but he flew alone, with alonging in his breast. Lonely he flew over the blue swelling billows."TWENTY EIGHTH EVENING"I will give you another picture of Sweden," said the Moon. "Amongdark pine woods, near the melancholy banks of the Stoxen, lies the oldconvent church of Wreta. My rays glided through the grating into theroomy vaults, where kings sleep tranquilly in great stone coffins.On the wall, above the grave of each, is placed the emblem ofearthly grandeur, a kingly crown. but it is made only of wood, paintedand gilt, and is hung on a wooden peg driven into the wall. Theworms have gnawed the gilded wood, the spider has spun her web fromthe crown down to the sand, like a mourning banner, frail andtransient as the grief of mortals. How quietly they sleep! I canremember them quite plainly. I still see the bold smile on their lips,that so strongly and plainly expressed joy or grief. When thesteamboat winds along like a magic snail over the lakes, a strangeroften comes to the church, and visits the burial vault. he asks thenames of the kings, and they have a dead and forgotten sound. Heglances with a smile at the worm eaten crowns, and if he happens to bea pious, thoughtful man, something of melancholy mingles with thesmile. Slumber on, ye dead ones! The Moon thinks of you, the Moon atnight sends down his rays into your silent kingdom, over which hangsthe crown of pine wood."TWENTY NINTH EVENING"Close by the high road," said the Moon, "is an inn, andopposite to it is a great waggon shed, whose straw roof was just beingre thatched. I looked down between the bare rafters and through theopen loft into the comfortless space below. The turkey cock slept onthe beam, and the saddle rested in the empty crib. In the middle ofthe shed stood a travelling carriage. the proprietor was inside,fast asleep, while the horses were being watered. The coachmanstretched himself, though I am very sure that he had been mostcomfortably asleep half the last stage. The door of the servants' roomstood open, and the bed looked as if it had been turned over and over.the candle stood on the floor, and had burnt deep down into thesocket. The wind blew cold through the shed: it was nearer to the dawnthan to midnight. In the wooden frame on the ground slept a wanderingfamily of musicians. The father and mother seemed to be dreaming ofthe burning liquor that remained in the bottle. The little paledaughter was dreaming too, for her eyes were wet with tears. The harpstood at their heads, and the dog lay stretched at their feet."THIRTIETH EVENING"It was in a little provincial town," the Moon said. "it certainlyhappened last year, but that has nothing to do with the matter. Isaw it quite plainly. To day I read about it in the papers, butthere it was not half so clearly expressed. In the taproom of thelittle inn sat the bear leader, eating his supper. the bear was tiedup outside, behind the wood pile poor Bruin, who did nobody any harm,though he looked grim enough. Up in the garret three little childrenwere playing by the light of my beams. the eldest was perhaps sixyears old, the youngest certainly not more than two. 'Tramp,tramp' somebody was coming upstairs: who might it be? The door wasthrust open it was Bruin, the great, shaggy Bruin! He had got tired ofwaiting down in the courtyard, and had found his way to the stairs.I saw it all," said the Moon. "The children were very muchfrightened at first at the great shaggy animal. each of them creptinto a corner, but he found them all out, and smelt at them, but didthem no harm. 'This must be a great dog,' they said, and began tostroke him. He lay down upon the ground, the youngest boy clambered onhis back, and bending down a little head of golden curls, played athiding in the beast's shaggy skin. Presently the eldest boy took hisdrum, and beat upon it till it rattled again. the bear rose upon hishind legs, and began to dance. It was a charming sight to behold. Eachboy now took his gun, and the bear was obliged to have one too, and heheld it up quite properly. Here was a capital playmate they had found.and they began marching one, two. one, two."Suddenly some one came to the door, which opened, and themother of the children appeared. You should have seen her in herdumb terror, with her face as white as chalk, her mouth half open, andher eyes fixed in a horrified stare. But the youngest boy nodded toher in great glee, and called out in his infantile prattle, 'We'replaying at soldiers.' And then the bear leader came running up."THIRTY FIRST EVENINGThe wind blew stormy and cold, the clouds flew hurriedly past.only for a moment now and then did the Moon become visible. He said,"I looked down from the silent sky upon the driving clouds, and sawthe great shadows chasing each other across the earth. I looked upon aprison. A closed carriage stood before it. a prisoner was to becarried away. My rays pierced through the grated window towards thewall. the prisoner was scratching a few lines upon it, as a partingtoken. but he did not write words, but a melody, the outpouring of hisheart. The door was opened, and he was led forth, and fixed his eyesupon my round disc. Clouds passed between us, as if he were not to seehis face, nor I his. He stepped into the carriage, the door wasclosed, the whip cracked, and the horses gallopped off into thethick forest, whither my rays were not able to follow him. but as Iglanced through the grated window, my rays glided over the notes,his last farewell engraved on the prison wall where words fail,sounds can often speak. My rays could only light up isolated notes, sothe greater part of what was written there will ever remain dark tome. Was it the death hymn he wrote there? Were these the glad notes ofjoy? Did he drive away to meet death, or hasten to the embraces of hisbeloved? The rays of the Moon do not read all that is written bymortals."THIRTY SECOND EVENING"I love the children," said the Moon, "especially the quite littleones they are so droll. Sometimes I peep into the room, between thecurtain and the window frame, when they are not thinking of me. Itgives me pleasure to see them dressing and undressing. First, thelittle round naked shoulder comes creeping out of the frock, thenthe arm. or I see how the stocking is drawn off, and a plump littlewhite leg makes its appearance, and a white little foot that is fit tobe kissed, and I kiss it too."But about what I was going to tell you. This evening I lookedthrough a window, before which no curtain was drawn, for nobodylives opposite. I saw a whole troop of little ones, all of one family,and among them was a little sister. She is only four years old, butcan say her prayers as well as any of the rest. The mother sits by herbed every evening, and hears her say her prayers. and then she has akiss, and the mother sits by the bed till the little one has gone tosleep, which generally happens as soon as ever she can close her eyes."This evening the two elder children were a little boisterous. Oneof them hopped about on one leg in his long white nightgown, and theother stood on a chair surrounded by the clothes of all thechildren, and declared he was acting Grecian statues. The third andfourth laid the clean linen carefully in the box, for that is athing that has to be done. and the mother sat by the bed of theyoungest, and announced to all the rest that they were to be quiet,for little sister was going to say her prayers."I looked in, over the lamp, into the little maiden's bed, whereshe lay under the neat white coverlet, her hands folded demurely andher little face quite grave and serious. She was praying the Lord'sprayer aloud. But her mother interrupted her in the middle of herprayer. 'How is it,' she asked, 'that when you have prayed for dailybread, you always add something I cannot understand? You must tellme what that is.' The little one lay silent, and looked at hermother in embarrassment. 'What is it you say after our daily bread?''Dear mother, don't be angry: I only said, and plenty of butter onit.'"