which he gathered up, looked earnestly at it, and was in the greatestastonishment to find it was the same he shot away. "Certainly," said heto himself, "neither I nor any man living could shoot an arrow so far,"and, finding it laid flat, not sticking into the ground, he judged thatit rebounded against the rock. "There must be some mystery in this,"said he to himself again, "and it may be advantageous to me. Perhapsfortune, to make me amends for depriving me of what I thought thegreatest happiness, may have reserved a greater blessing for mycomfort."As these rocks were full of caves and some of those caves were deep, thePrince entered into one, and, looking about, cast his eyes on an irondoor, which seemed to have no lock, but he feared it was fastened.However, thrusting against it, it opened, and discovered an easydescent, but no steps, which he walked down with his arrow in hishand. At first he thought he was going into a dark, obscure place, butpresently a quite different light succeeded that which he came out of,and, entering into a large, spacious place, at about fifty or sixtypaces distant, he perceived a magnificent palace, which he had not thentime enough to look at. At the same time a lady of majestic port and airadvanced as far as the porch, attended by a large troop of ladies, sofinely dressed and beautiful that it was difficult to distinguish whichwas the mistress.As soon as Prince Ahmed perceived the lady, he made all imaginablehaste to go and pay his respects. and the lady, on her part, seeing himcoming, prevented him from addressing his discourse to her first, butsaid to him: "Come nearer, Prince Ahmed, you are welcome."It was no small surprise to the Prince to hear himself named in a placehe had never heard of, though so nigh to his father's capital, and hecould not comprehend how he should be known to a lady who was a strangerto him. At last he returned the lady's compliment by throwing himself ather feet, and, rising up again, said to her:"Madam, I return you a thousand thanks for the assurance you give me ofa welcome to a place where I believed my imprudent curiosity had mademe penetrate too far. But, madam, may I, without being guilty of illmanners, dare to ask you by what adventure you know me? and how you, wholive in the same neighborhood with me, should be so great a stranger tome?""Prince," said the lady, "let us go into the hall, there I will gratifyyou in your request."After these words the lady led Prince Ahmed into the hall. Then she satdown on a sofa, and when the Prince by her entreaty had done the sameshe said: "You are surprised, you say, that I should know you and not beknown by you, but you will be no longer surprised when I inform you whoI am. You are undoubtedly sensible that your religion teaches you tobelieve that the world is inhabited by genies as well as men. I am thedaughter of one of the most powerful and distinguished genies, and myname is Paribanou. The only thing that I have to add is, that you seemedto me worthy of a more happy fate than that of possessing the PrincessNouronnihar. and, that you might attain to it, I was present when youdrew your arrow, and foresaw it would not go beyond Prince Houssain's.I took it in the air, and gave it the necessary motion to strike againstthe rocks near which you found it, and I tell you that it lies in yourpower to make use of the favorable opportunity which presents itself tomake you happy."As the Fairy Paribanou pronounced these last words with a differenttone, and looked, at the same time, tenderly upon Prince Ahmed, witha modest blush on her cheeks, it was no hard matter for the Prince tocomprehend what happiness she meant. He presently considered that thePrincess Nouronnihar could never be his and that the Fairy Paribanouexcelled her infinitely in beauty, agreeableness, wit, and, as muchas he could conjecture by the magnificence of the palace, in immenseriches. He blessed the moment that he thought of seeking after his arrowa second time, and, yielding to his love, "Madam," replied he, "shouldI all my life have the happiness of being your slave, and the admirerof the many charms which ravish my soul, I should think myself the mostblessed of men. Pardon in me the boldness which inspires me to ask thisfavor, and don't refuse to admit me into your Court, a prince who isentirely devoted to you.""Prince," answered the Fairy, "will you not pledge your faith to me,as well as I give mine to you?" "Yes, madam," replied the Prince, in anecstacy of joy. "what can I do better, and with greater pleasure?Yes, my sultaness, my queen, I'll give you my heart without the leastreserve." "Then," answered the Fairy, "you are my husband, and I amyour wife. But, as I suppose," pursued she, "that you have eaten nothingto day, a slight repast shall be served up for you, while preparationsare making for our wedding feast at night, and then I will show you theapartments of my palace, and you shall judge if this hall is not themeanest part of it."Some of the Fairy's women, who came into the hall with them, and guessedher intentions, went immediately out, and returned presently with someexcellent meats and wines.When Prince Ahmed had ate and drunk as much as he cared for, the FairyParibanou carried him through all the apartments, where he saw diamonds,rubies, emeralds and all sorts of fine jewels, intermixed with pearls,agate, jasper, porphyry, and all sorts of the most precious marbles.But, not to mention the richness of the furniture, which wasinestimable, there was such a profuseness throughout that the Prince,instead of ever having seen anything like it, owned that he could nothave imagined that there was anything in the world that could come up toit. "Prince," said the Fairy, "if you admire my palace so much, which,indeed, is very beautiful, what would you say to the palaces of thechief of our genies, which are much more beautiful, spacious, andmagnificent? I could also charm you with my gardens, but we will letthat alone till another time. Night draws near, and it will be time togo to supper."The next hall which the Fairy led the Prince into, and where the clothwas laid for the feast, was the last apartment the Prince had not seen,and not in the least inferior to the others. At his entrance into ithe admired the infinite number of sconces of wax candles perfumed withamber, the multitude of which, instead of being confused, were placedwith so just a symmetry as formed an agreeable and pleasant sight. Alarge side table was set out with all sorts of gold plate, so finelywrought that the workmanship was much more valuable than the weight ofthe gold. Several choruses of beautiful women richly dressed, and whosevoices were ravishing, began a concert, accompanied with all sorts ofthe most harmonious instruments. and when they were set down at tablethe Fairy Paribanou took care to help Prince Ahmed to the most delicatemeats, which she named as she invited him to eat of them, and whichthe Prince found to be so exquisitely nice that he commended them withexaggeration, and said that the entertainment far surpassed those ofman. He found also the same excellence in the wines, which neither henor the Fairy tasted of till the dessert was served up, which consistedof the choicest sweetmeats and fruits.The wedding feast was continued the next day, or, rather, the daysfollowing the celebration were a continual feast.At the end of six months Prince Ahmed, who always loved and honored theSultan his father, conceived a great desire to know how he was, andthat desire could not be satisfied without his going to see. he told theFairy of it, and desired she would give him leave."Prince," said she, "go when you please. But first, don't take it amissthat I give you some advice how you shall behave yourself where you aregoing. First, I don't think it proper for you to tell the Sultan yourfather of our marriage, nor of my quality, nor the place where you havebeen. Beg of him to be satisfied in knowing you are happy, and desireno more. and let him know that the sole end of your visit is to make himeasy, and inform him of your fate."She appointed twenty gentlemen, well mounted and equipped, to attendhim. When all was ready Prince Ahmed took his leave of the Fairy,embraced her, and renewed his promise to return soon. Then his horse,which was most finely caparisoned, and was as beautiful a creature asany in the Sultan of Indies' stables, was led to him, and he mounted himwith an extraordinary grace. and, after he had bid her a last adieu, setforward on his journey.As it was not a great way to his father's capital, Prince Ahmed soonarrived there. The people, glad to see him again, received him withacclamations of joy, and followed him in crowds to the Sultan'sapartment. The Sultan received and embraced him with great joy,complaining at the same time, with a fatherly tenderness, of theaffliction his long absence had been to him, which he said was the moregrievous for that, fortune having decided in favor of Prince Ali hisbrother, he was afraid he might have committed some rash action.The Prince told a story of his adventures without speaking of the Fairy,whom he said that he must not mention, and ended: "The only favor Iask of your Majesty is to give me leave to come often and pay you myrespects, and to know how you do.""Son," answered the Sultan of the Indies, "I cannot refuse you the leaveyou ask me. but I should much rather you would resolve to stay with me.at least tell me where I may send to you if you should fail to come, orwhen I may think your presence necessary." "Sir," replied Prince Ahmed,"what your Majesty asks of me is part of the mystery I spoke to yourMajesty of. I beg of you to give me leave to remain silent on this head,for I shall come so frequently that I am afraid that I shall sooner bethought troublesome than be accused of negligence in my duty."The Sultan of the Indies pressed Prince Ahmed no more, but said to him:"Son, I penetrate no farther into your secrets, but leave you at yourliberty. but can tell you that you could not do me a greater pleasurethan to come, and by your presence restore to me the joy I have notfelt this long time, and that you shall always be welcome when you come,without interrupting your business or pleasure."Prince Ahmed stayed but three days at the Sultan his father's Court, andthe fourth returned to the Fairy Paribanou, who did not expect him sosoon.A month after Prince Ahmed's return from paying a visit to his father,as the Fairy Paribanou had observed that the Prince, since the time thathe gave her an account of his journey, his discourse with his father,and the leave he asked to go and see him often, had never talked of theSultan, as if there had been no such person in the world, whereas beforehe was always speaking of him, she thought he forebore on her account.therefore she took an opportunity to say to him one day: "Prince, tellme, have you forgot the Sultan your father? Don't you remember thepromise you made to go and see him often? For my part I have not forgotwhat you told me at your return, and so put you in mind of it, that youmay not be long before you acquit yourself of your promise."So Prince Ahmed went the next morning with the same attendance asbefore, but much finer, and himself more magnificently mounted,equipped, and dressed, and was received by the Sultan with the samejoy and satisfaction. For several months he constantly paid his visits,always in a richer and finer equipage.At last some viziers, the Sultan's favorites, who judged of PrinceAhmed's grandeur and power by the figure he cut, made the Sultan jealousof his son, saying it was to be feared he might inveigle himself intothe people's favor and dethrone him.The Sultan of the Indies was so far from thinking that Prince Ahmedcould be capable of so pernicious a design as his favorites would makehim believe that he said to them: "You are mistaken. my son loves me,and I am certain of his tenderness and fidelity, as I have given him noreason to be disgusted."But the favorites went on abusing Prince Ahmed till the Sultan said: "Beit as it will, I don't believe my son Ahmed is so wicked as you wouldpersuade me he is. how ever, I am obliged to you for your good advice,and don't dispute but that it proceeds from your good intentions."The Sultan of the Indies said this that his favorites might not know theimpressions their discourse had made on his mind. which had so alarmedhim that he resolved to have Prince Ahmed watched unknown to his grandvizier. So he sent for a female magician, who was introduced by a backdoor into his apartment. "Go immediately," he said, "and follow my son,and watch him so well as to find out where he retires, and bring meword."The magician left the Sultan, and, knowing the place where Prince Ahmedfound his arrow, went immediately thither, and hid herself near therocks, so that nobody could see her.The next morning Prince Ahmed set out by daybreak, without taking leaveeither of the Sultan or any of his Court, according to custom. Themagician, seeing him coming, followed him with her eyes, till on asudden she lost sight of him and his attendants.As the rocks were very steep and craggy, they were an insurmountablebarrier, so that the magician judged that there were but two thingsfor it: either that the Prince retired into some cavern, or an abode ofgenies or fairies. Thereupon she came out of the place where she was hidand went directly to the hollow way, which she traced till she cameto the farther end, looking carefully about on all sides. but,notwithstanding all her diligence, could perceive no opening, not somuch as the iron gate which Prince Ahmed discovered, which was to beseen and opened to none but men, and only to such whose presence wasagreeable to the Fairy Paribanou.The magician, who saw it was in vain for her to search any farther, wasobliged to be satisfied with the discovery she had made, and returned togive the Sultan an account.The Sultan was very well pleased with the magician's conduct, and saidto her: "Do you as you think fit. I'll wait patiently the event of yourpromises," and to encourage her made her a present of a diamond of greatvalue.As Prince Ahmed had obtained the Fairy Paribanou's leave to go to theSultan of the Indies' Court once a month, he never failed, and themagician, knowing the time, went a day or two before to the foot of therock where she lost sight of the Prince and his attendants, and waitedthere.The next morning Prince Ahmed went out, as usual, at the iron gate, withthe same attendants as before, and passed by the magician, whom he knewnot to be such, and, seeing her lie with her head against the rock,and complaining as if she were in great pain, he pitied her, turned hishorse about, went to her, and asked her what was the matter with her,and what he could do to ease her.The artful sorceress looked at the Prince in a pitiful manner, withoutever lifting up her head, and answered in broken words and sighs, asif she could hardly fetch her breath, that she was going to the capitalcity, but on the way thither she was taken with so violent a fever thather strength failed her, and she was forced to lie down where he sawher, far from any habitation, and without any hopes of assistance."Good woman," replied Prince Ahmed, "you are not so far from help as youimagine. I am ready to assist you, and convey you where you will meetwith a speedy cure. only get up, and let one of my people take youbehind him."At these words the magician, who pretended sickness only to know wherethe Prince lived and what he did, refused not the charitable offer hemade her, and that her actions might correspond with her words she mademany pretended vain endeavors to get up. At the same time two of thePrince's attendants, alighting off their horses, helped her up, and sether behind another, and mounted their horses again, and followed thePrince, who turned back to the iron gate, which was opened by one of hisretinue who rode before. And when he came into the outward court of theFairy, without dismounting himself, he sent to tell her he wanted tospeak with her.The Fairy Paribanou came with all imaginable haste, not knowing whatmade Prince Ahmed return so soon, who, not giving her time to ask himthe reason, said: "Princess, I desire you would have compassion on thisgood woman," pointing to the magician, who was held up by two of hisretinue. "I found her in the condition you see her in, and promised herthe assistance she stands in need of, and am persuaded that you, out ofyour own goodness, as well as upon my entreaty, will not abandon her."The Fairy Paribanou, who had her eyes fixed upon the pretended sickwoman all the time that the Prince was talking to her, ordered two ofher women who followed her to take her from the two men that held her,and carry her into an apartment of the palace, and take as much care ofher as she would herself.While the two women executed the Fairy's commands, she went up to PrinceAhmed, and, whispering in his ear, said: "Prince, this woman is not sosick as she pretends to be. and I am very much mistaken if she is not animpostor, who will be the cause of a great trouble to you. But don'tbe concerned, let what will be devised against you. be persuaded thatI will deliver you out of all the snares that shall be laid for you. Goand pursue your journey."This discourse of the Fairy's did not in the least frighten PrinceAhmed. "My Princess," said he, "as I do not remember I ever did ordesigned anybody an injury, I cannot believe anybody can have a thoughtof doing me one, but if they have I shall not, nevertheless, forbeardoing good whenever I have an opportunity." Then he went back to hisfather's palace.In the meantime the two women carried the magician into a very fineapartment, richly furnished. First they sat her down upon a sofa, withher back supported with a cushion of gold brocade, while they made a bedon the same sofa before her, the quilt of which was finely embroideredwith silk, the sheets of the finest linen, and the coverletcloth of gold. When they had put her into bed (for the old sorceresspretended that her fever was so violent she could not help herself inthe least) one of the women went out, and returned soon again with achina dish in her hand, full of a certain liquor, which she presented tothe magician, while the other helped her to sit up. "Drink this liquor,"said she. "it is the Water of the Fountain of Lions, and a sovereignremedy against all fevers whatsoever. You will find the effect of it inless than an hour's time."The magician, to dissemble the better, took it after a great deal ofentreaty. but at last she took the china dish, and, holding back herhead, swallowed down the liquor. When she was laid down again the twowomen covered her up. "Lie quiet," said she who brought her the chinacup, "and get a little sleep if you can. We'll leave you, and hope tofind you perfectly cured when we come again an hour hence."The two women came again at the time they said they should, and foundthe magician up and dressed, and sitting upon the sofa. "Oh, admirablepotion!" she said: "it has wrought its cure much sooner than you told meit would, and I shall be able to prosecute my journey."The two women, who were fairies as well as their mistress, after theyhad told the magician how glad they were that she was cured so soon,walked before her, and conducted her through several apartments, allmore noble than that wherein she lay, into a large hall, the most richlyand magnificently furnished of all the palace.Fairy Paribanou sat in this hall on a throne of massive gold, enrichedwith diamonds, rubies, and pearls of an extraordinary size, and attendedon each hand by a great number of beautiful fairies, all richly clothed.At the sight of so much majesty, the magician was not only dazzled, butwas so amazed that, after she had prostrated herself before the throne,she could not open her lips to thank the Fairy as she proposed. However,Paribanou saved her the trouble, and said to her: "Good woman, I am gladI had an opportunity to oblige you, and to see you are able to pursueyour journey. I won't detain you, but perhaps you may not be displeasedto see my palace. follow my women, and they will show it you."Then the magician went back and related to the Sultan of the Indies allthat had happened, and how very rich Prince Ahmed was since his marriagewith the Fairy, richer than all the kings in the world, and how therewas danger that he should come and take the throne from his father.Though the Sultan of the Indies was very well persuaded that PrinceAhmed's natural disposition was good, yet he could not help beingconcerned at the discourse of the old sorceress, to whom, when she wastaking her leave, he said: "I thank thee for the pains thou hast taken,and thy wholesome advice. I am so sensible of the great importance it isto me that I shall deliberate upon it in council."Now the favorites advised that the Prince should be killed, but themagician advised differently: "Make him give you all kinds of wonderfulthings, by the Fairy's help, till she tires of him and sends him away.As, for example, every time your Majesty goes into the field, you areobliged to be at a great expense, not only in pavilions and tents foryour army, but likewise in mules and camels to carry their baggage. Now,might not you engage him to use his interest with the Fairy to procureyou a tent which might be carried in a man's hand, and which should beso large as to shelter your whole army against bad weather?"When the magician had finished her speech, the Sultan asked hisfavorites if they had anything better to propose. and, finding themall silent, determined to follow the magician's advice, as the mostreasonable and most agreeable to his mild government.Next day the Sultan did as the magician had advised him, and asked forthe pavilion.Prince Ahmed never expected that the Sultan his father would haveasked such a thing, which at first appeared so difficult, not to sayimpossible. Though he knew not absolutely how great the power of geniesand fairies was, he doubted whether it extended so far as to compasssuch a tent as his father desired. At last he replied: "Though it iswith the greatest reluctance imaginable, I will not fail to ask thefavor of my wife your Majesty desires, but will not promise you toobtain it. and if I should not have the honor to come again to pay youmy respects that shall be the sign that I have not had success. Butbeforehand, I desire you to forgive me, and consider that you yourselfhave reduced me to this extremity.""Son," replied the Sultan of the Indies, "I should be very sorry if whatI ask of you should cause me the displeasure of never seeing you more. Ifind you don't know the power a husband has over a wife. and yours wouldshow that her love to you was very indifferent if she, with the powershe has of a fairy, should refuse you so trifling a request as this Idesire you to ask of her for my sake." The Prince went back, and wasvery sad for fear of offending the Fairy. She kept pressing him totell her what was the matter, and at last he said: "Madam, you may haveobserved that hitherto I have been content with your love, and havenever asked you any other favor. Consider then, I conjure you, thatit is not I, but the Sultan my father, who indiscreetly, or at least Ithink so, begs of you a pavilion large enough to shelter him, his Court,and army from the violence of the weather, and which a man may carry inhis hand. But remember it is the Sultan my father asks this favor.""Prince," replied the Fairy, smiling, "I am sorry that so small a mattershould disturb you, and make you so uneasy as you appeared to me."Then the Fairy sent for her treasurer, to whom, when she came, she said:"Nourgihan" which was her name "bring me the largest pavilion in mytreasury." Nourgiham returned presently with the pavilion, which shecould not only hold in her hand, but in the palm of her hand when sheshut her fingers, and presented it to her mistress, who gave it toPrince Ahmed to look at.When Prince Ahmed saw the pavilion which the Fairy called the largest inher treasury, he fancied she had a mind to jest with him, and thereuponthe marks of his surprise appeared presently in his countenance. whichParibanou perceiving burst out laughing. "What! Prince," cried she, "doyou think I jest with you? You'll see presently that I am in earnest.Nourgihan," said she to her treasurer, taking the tent out of PrinceAhmed's hands, "go and set it up, that the Prince may judge whether itmay be large enough for the Sultan his father."The treasurer went immediately with it out of the palace, and carried ita great way off. and when she had set it up one end reached to the verypalace. at which time the Prince, thinking it small, found it largeenough to shelter two greater armies than that of the Sultan hisfather's, and then said to Paribanou: "I ask my Princess a thousandpardons for my incredulity. after what I have seen I believe thereis nothing impossible to you." "You see," said the Fairy, "that thepavilion is larger than what your father may have occasion for. foryou must know that it has one property that it is larger or smalleraccording to the army it is to cover."The treasurer took down the tent again, and brought it to the Prince,who took it, and, without staying any longer than till the next day,mounted his horse, and went with the same attendants to the Sultan hisfather.The Sultan, who was persuaded that there could not be any such thingas such a tent as he asked for, was in a great surprise at the Prince'sdiligence. He took the tent and after he had admired its smallness hisamazement was so great that he could not recover himself. When the tentwas set up in the great plain, which we have before mentioned, he foundit large enough to shelter an army twice as large as he could bring intothe field.But the Sultan was not yet satisfied. "Son," said he, "I have alreadyexpressed to you how much I am obliged to you for the present of thetent you have procured me. that I look upon it as the most valuablething in all my treasury. But you must do one thing more for me, whichwill be every whit as agreeable to me. I am informed that the Fairy,your spouse, makes use of a certain water, called the Water of theFountain of Lions, which cures all sorts of fevers, even the mostdangerous, and, as I am perfectly well persuaded my health is dear toyou, I don't doubt but you will ask her for a bottle of that water forme, and bring it me as a sovereign medicine, which I may make use ofwhen I have occasion. Do me this other important piece of service, andthereby complete the duty of a good son toward a tender father."The Prince returned and told the Fairy what his father had said."There's a great deal of wickedness in this demand?" she answered, "asyou will understand by what I am going to tell you. The Fountain ofLions is situated in the middle of a court of a great castle, theentrance into which is guarded by four fierce lions, two of which sleepalternately, while the other two are awake. But don't let that frightenyou: I'll give you means to pass by them without any danger."The Fairy Paribanou was at that time very hard at work, and, as she hadseveral clews of thread by her, she took up one, and, presenting itto Prince Ahmed, said: "First take this clew of thread. I'll tell youpresently the use of it. In the second place, you must have two horses.one you must ride yourself, and the other you must lead, which must beloaded with a sheep cut into four quarters, that must be killed to day.In the third place, you must be provided with a bottle, which I willgive you, to bring the water in. Set out early to morrow morning, andwhen you have passed the iron gate throw the clew of thread before you,which will roll till it comes to the gates of the castle. Follow it, andwhen it stops, as the gates will be open, you will see the four lions:the two that are awake will, by their roaring, wake the other two, butdon't be frightened, but throw each of them a quarter of mutton, andthen clap spurs to your horse and ride to the fountain. fill your bottlewithout alighting, and then return with the same expedition. The lionswill be so busy eating they will let you pass by them."Prince Ahmed set out the next morning at the time appointed by theFairy, and followed her directions exactly. When he arrived at thegates of the castle he distributed the quarters of mutton among thefour lions, and, passing through the midst of them bravely, got to thefountain, filled his bottle, and returned back as safe and sound as hewent. When he had gone a little distance from the castle gates he turnedhim about, and, perceiving two of the lions coming after him, he drewhis sabre and prepared himself for defense. But as he went forward hesaw one of them turned out of the road at some distance, and showed byhis head and tail that he did not come to do him any harm, but only togo before him, and that the other stayed behind to follow, he put hissword up again in its scabbard. Guarded in this manner, he arrived atthe capital of the Indies, but the lions never left him till they hadconducted him to the gates of the Sultan's palace. after which theyreturned the same way they came, though not without frightening allthat saw them, for all they went in a very gentle manner and showed nofierceness.A great many officers came to attend the Prince while he dismounted hishorse, and afterward conducted him into the Sultan's apartment, who wasat that time surrounded with his favorites. He approached toward thethrone, laid the bottle at the Sultan's feet, and kissed the richtapestry which covered his footstool, and then said:"I have brought you, sir, the healthful water which your Majesty desiredso much to keep among your other rarities in your treasury, but at thesame time wish you such extraordinary health as never to have occasionto make use of it."After the Prince had made an end of his compliment the Sultan placed himon his right hand, and then said to him: "Son, I am very much obligedto you for this valuable present, as also for the great danger you haveexposed yourself to upon my account (which I have been informed of bya magician who knows the Fountain of Lions). but do me the pleasure,"continued he, "to inform me by what address, or, rather, by whatincredible power, you have been secured.""Sir," replied Prince Ahmed, "I have no share in the compliment yourMajesty is pleased to make me. all the honor is due to the Fairy myspouse, whose good advice I followed." Then he informed the Sultan whatthose directions were, and by the relation of this his expedition lethim know how well he had behaved himself. When he had done the Sultan,who showed outwardly all the demonstrations of great joy, but secretlybecame more jealous, retired into an inward apartment, where he sent forthe magician.The magician, at her arrival, saved the Sultan the trouble to tell herof the success of Prince Ahmed's journey, which she had heard of beforeshe came, and therefore was prepared with an infallible means, as shepretended. This means she communicated to the Sultan who declared itthe next day to the Prince, in the midst of all his courtiers, in thesewords: "Son," said he, "I have one thing more to ask of you, after whichI shall expect nothing more from your obedience, nor your interest withyour wife. This request is, to bring me a man not above a foot and ahalf high, and whose beard is thirty feet long who carries a bar ofiron upon his shoulders of five hundredweight, which he uses as aquarterstaff."Prince Ahmed, who did not believe that there was such a man in the worldas his father described, would gladly have excused himself. but theSultan persisted in his demand, and told him the Fairy could do moreincredible things.The next day the Prince returned to his dear Paribanou, to whom he toldhis father's new demand, which, he said, he looked upon to be a thingmore impossible than the two first. "for," added he, "I cannot imaginethere can be such a man in the world. without doubt, he has a mind totry whether or no I am so silly as to go about it, or he has a design onmy ruin. In short, how can he suppose that I should lay hold of a manso well armed, though he is but little? What arms can I make use of toreduce him to my will? If there are any means, I beg you will tell them,and let me come off with honor this time.""Don't affright yourself, Prince," replied the Fairy. "you ran a risk infetching the Water of the Fountain of Lions for your father, but there'sno danger in finding out this man, who is my brother Schaibar, but is sofar from being like me, though we both had the same father, that he isof so violent a nature that nothing can prevent his giving cruel marksof his resentment for a slight offense. yet, on the other hand, is sogood as to oblige anyone in whatever they desire. He is made exactly asthe Sultan your father has described him, and has no other arms than abar of iron of five hundred pounds weight, without which he never stirs,and which makes him respected. I'll send for him, and you shall judgeof the truth of what I tell you. but be sure to prepare yourself againstbeing frightened at his extraordinary figure when you see him." "What!my Queen," replied Prince Ahmed, "do you say Schaibar is your brother?Let him be never so ugly or deformed I shall be so far from beingfrightened at the sight of him that, as our brother, I shall honor andlove him."The Fairy ordered a gold chafing dish to be set with a fire in it underthe porch of her palace, with a box of the same metal, which was apresent to her, out of which taking a perfume, and throwing it into thefire, there arose a thick cloud of smoke.Some moments after the Fairy said to Prince Ahmed: "See, there comes mybrother." The Prince immediately perceived Schaibar coming gravely withhis heavy bar on his shoulder, his long beard, which he held up beforehim, and a pair of thick mustachios, which he tucked behind his ears andalmost covered his face. his eyes were very small and deep set in hishead, which was far from being of the smallest size, and on his head hewore a grenadier's cap. besides all this, he was very much hump backed.If Prince Ahmed had not known that Schaibar was Paribanou's brother,he would not have been able to have looked at him without fear, but,knowing first who he was, he stood by the Fairy without the leastconcern.Schaibar, as he came forward, looked at the Prince earnestly enough tohave chilled his blood in his veins, and asked Paribanou, when he firstaccosted her, who that man was. To which she replied: "He is my husband,brother. His name is Ahmed. he is son to the Sultan of the Indies. Thereason why I did not invite you to my wedding was I was unwilling todivert you from an expedition you were engaged in, and from which Iheard with pleasure you returned victorious, and so took the liberty nowto call for you."At these words, Schaibar, looking on Prince Ahmed favorably, said: "Isthere anything else, sister, wherein I can serve him? It is enoughfor me that he is your husband to engage me to do for him whatever hedesires." "The Sultan, his father," replied Paribanou, "has a curiosityto see you, and I desire he may be your guide to the Sultan's Court.""He needs but lead me the way I'll follow him." "Brother," repliedParibanou, "it is too late to go to day, therefore stay till to morrowmorning. and in the meantime I'll inform you of all that has passedbetween the Sultan of the Indies and Prince Ahmed since our marriage."The next morning, after Schaibar had been informed of the affair, he andPrince Ahmed set out for the Sultan's Court. When they arrived at thegates of the capital the people no sooner saw Schaibar but they ran andhid themselves. and some shut up their shops and locked themselves up intheir houses, while others, flying, communicated their fear to all theymet, who stayed not to look behind them, but ran too. insomuch thatSchaibar and Prince Ahmed, as they went along, found the streets alldesolate till they came to the palaces where the porters, insteadof keeping the gates, ran away too, so that the Prince and Schaibaradvanced without any obstacle to the council hall, where the Sultan wasseated on his throne, and giving audience. Here likewise the ushers,at the approach of Schaibar, abandoned their posts, and gave them freeadmittance.Schaibar went boldly and fiercely up to the throne, without waiting tobe presented by Prince Ahmed, and accosted the Sultan of the Indies inthese words: "Thou hast asked for me," said he. "see, here I am. whatwouldst thou have with me?"The Sultan, instead of answering him, clapped his hands before his eyesto avoid the sight of so terrible an object. at which uncivil and rudereception Schaibar was so much provoked, after he had given him thetrouble to come so far, that he instantly lifted up his iron bar andkilled him before Prince Ahmed could intercede in his behalf. All thathe could do was to prevent his killing the grand vizier, who sat not farfrom him, representing to him that he had always given the Sultan hisfather good advice. "These are they, then," said Schaibar, "who gave himbad," and as he pronounced these words he killed all the other viziersand flattering favorites of the Sultan who were Prince Ahmed's enemies.Every time he struck he killed some one or other, and none escaped butthey who were not so frightened as to stand staring and gaping, and whosaved themselves by flight.When this terrible execution was over Schaibar came out of thecouncil hall into the midst of the courtyard with the iron bar upon hisshoulder, and, looking hard at the grand vizier, who owed his life toPrince Ahmed, he said: "I know here is a certain magician, who is agreater enemy of my brother in law than all these base favorites Ihave chastised. Let the magician be brought to me presently." The grandvizier immediately sent for her, and as soon as she was brought Schaibarsaid, at the time he fetched a stroke at her with his iron bar: "Takethe reward of thy pernicious counsel, and learn to feign sicknessagain."After this he said: "This is not yet enough. I will use the whole townafter the same manner if they do not immediately acknowledge PrinceAhmed, my brother in law, for their Sultan and the Sultan of theIndies." Then all that were there present made the air echo againwith the repeated acclamations of: "Long life to Sultan Ahmed". andimmediately after he was proclaimed through the whole town. Schaibarmade him be clothed in the royal vestments, installed him on the throne,and after he had caused all to swear homage and fidelity to him wentand fetched his sister Paribanou, whom he brought with all the pomp andgrandeur imaginable, and made her to be owned Sultaness of the Indies.As for Prince Ali and Princess Nouronnihar, as they had no hand in theconspiracy against Prince Ahmed and knew nothing of any, Prince Ahmedassigned them a considerable province, with its capital, where theyspent the rest of their lives. Afterwards he sent an officer to PrinceHoussain to acquaint him with the change and make him an offer of whichprovince he liked best. but that Prince thought himself so happy in hissolitude that he bade the officer return the Sultan his brother thanksfor the kindness he designed him, assuring him of his submission. andthat the only favor he desired of him was to give him leave to liveretired in the place he had made choice of for his retreat.(1)(1) Arabian Nights.