We all know individuals who knowingly engage in behavior that willultimately hurt them: the person with poor health habits, with a fierytemper, etc. The knowledge that cruel or self indulging acts will withtime prove costly, unfortunately, does not assure ethical behavior. Thefollowing tale of generational abuse illustrates this sad observation:A man in the prime of life abused his aging father. he wouldstrike him and even drag him out of the house by his hair. When he toobecame old his son treated him the same way. One day the son dragged himout the door and onto the street. "You go too far!" cried the old man. "Inever dragged my old father beyond the gate."Source: Retold from "Turn About Is Fair Play" (type 980,Pourrat, Treasury of French Tales, p. 163).There is, of course, always the threat of divine punishment, should aperson fail to live up to his or her family and social obligations. AndGod, if we can believe the evidence of folktales, does indeed move inmysterious ways, his wonders to perform:A man, about to eat a roasted chicken, saw his aged fathercoming, and hid the bird so he would not have to share it. After the oldman left, the son resumed eating, but the chicken became a toad and jumpedinto his face, and it stayed there for the rest of hislife.Source: Retold from The UngratefulSon (type 980D, Grimm, no. 145). The Grimms' source was Johann Pauli,Schimpf und Ernst(1522), ch. 437.An Eskimo variation, heard in Nain, Labrador, and East Greenland, iseven crasser:An old woman, blind, and lame, asked her daughter for a drinkof water. The young woman, tired of tending her old mother, gave her abowl of her own urine. The old woman drank it, and then asked: "Whichwould you prefer as a lover, a louse or a sea scorpion?" "A sea scorpion,"laughed the daughter, whereupon the old woman proceeded to pull seascorpions from the daughter's vagina, one after another, until she fellover dead.Source: Retold from "Old Age" (similar to type 980D), Millman,A Kayak Full of Ghosts , p. 192.