In a little village that stood on a wide plain, where you could seethe sun from the moment he rose to the moment he set, there lived twocouples side by side. The men, who worked under the same master, werequite good friends, but the wives were always quarrelling, and thesubject they quarrelled most about was which of the two had thestupidest husband.Unlike most women who think that anything that belongs to them must bebetter than what belongs to anyone else each thought her husband themore foolish of the two.'You should just see what he does!' one said to her neighbour. 'He putson the baby's frock upside down, and, one day, I found him trying tofeed her with boiling soup, and her mouth was scalded for days after.Then he picks up stones in the road and sows them instead of potatoes,and one day he wanted to go into the garden from the top window, becausehe declared it was a shorter way than through the door.''That is bad enough, of course,' answered the other. 'but it is reallyNOTHING to what I have to endure every day from MY husband. If, whenI am busy, I ask him to go and feed the poultry, he is certain to givethem some poisonous stuff instead of their proper food, and when I visitthe yard next I find them all dead. Once he even took my best bonnet,when I had gone away to my sick mother, and when I came back I found hehad given it to the hen to lay her eggs in. And you know yourself that,only last week, when I sent him to buy a cask of butter, he returneddriving a hundred and fifty ducks which someone had induced him to take,and not one of them would lay.''Yes, I am afraid he IS trying,' replied the first. 'but let us put themto the proof, and see which of them is the most foolish.'So, about the time that she expected her husband home from work, she gotout her spinning wheel, and sat busily turning it, taking care not evento look up from her work when the man came in. For some minutes he stoodwith his mouth open watching her, and as she still remained silent, hesaid at last:'Have you gone mad, wife, that you sit spinning without anything on thewheel?''YOU may think that there is nothing on it,' answered she, 'but I canassure you that there is a large skein of wool, so fine that nobody cansee it, which will be woven into a coat for you.''Dear me!' he replied, 'what a clever wife I have got! If you had nottold me I should never have known that there was any wool on the wheelat all. But now I really do seem to see something.'The woman smiled and was silent, and after spinning busily for an hourmore, she got up from her stoop, and began to weave as fast as shecould. At last she got up, and said to her husband: 'I am too tired tofinish it to night, so I shall go to bed, and to morrow I shall onlyhave the cutting and stitching to do.'So the next morning she got up early, and after she had cleaned herhouse, and fed her chickens, and put everything in its place again, shebent over the kitchen table, and the sound of her big scissors mightbe heard snip! snap! as far as the garden. Her husband could not seeanything to snip at. but then he was so stupid that was not surprising!After the cutting came the sewing. The woman patted and pinned and fixedand joined, and then, turning to the man, she said:'Now it is ready for you to try on.' And she made him take off his coat,and stand up in front of her, and once more she patted an pinned andfixed and joined, and was very careful in smoothing out every wrinkle.'It does not feel very warm,' observed the man at last, when he hadborne all this patiently for a long time.'That is because it is so fine,' answered she. 'you do not want it to beas thick as the rough clothes you wear every day.'He DID, but was ashamed to say so, and only answered: 'Well, I am sureit must be beautiful since you say so, and I shall be smarter thananyone in the whole village. "What a splendid coat!" they will exclaimwhen they see me. But it is not everybody who has a wife as clever asmine.'Meanwhile the other wife was not idle. As soon as her husband enteredshe looked at him with such a look of terror that the poor man was quitefrightened.'Why do you stare at me so? Is there anything the matter?' asked he.'Oh! go to bed at once,' she cried. 'you must be very ill indeed to looklike that!'The man was rather surprised at first, as he felt particularly well thatevening. but the moment his wife spoke he became quite certain that hehad something dreadful the matter with him, and grew quite pale.'I dare say it would be the best place for me,' he answered, trembling.and he suffered his wife to take him upstairs, and to help him off withhis clothes.'If you sleep well during the might there MAY be a chance for you,' saidshe, shaking her head, as she tucked him up warmly. 'but if not ' Andof course the poor man never closed an eye till the sun rose.'How do you feel this morning?' asked the woman, coming in on tip toewhen her house work was finished.'Oh, bad. very bad indeed,' answered he. 'I have not slept for a moment.Can you think of nothing to make me better?''I will try everything that is possible,' said the wife, who did not inthe least wish her husband to die, but was determined to show that hewas more foolish that the other man. 'I will get some dried herbs andmake you a drink, but I am very much afraid that it is too late. Why didyou not tell me before?''I thought perhaps the pain would go off in a day or two. and, besides,I did not want to make you unhappy,' answered the man, who was by thistime quite sure he had been suffering tortures, and had borne them likea hero. 'Of course, if I had had any idea how ill I really was, I shouldhave spoken at once.''Well, well, I will see what can be done,' said the wife, 'but talkingis not good for you. Lie still, and keep yourself warm.'All that day the man lay in bed, and whenever his wife entered the roomand asked him, with a shake of the head, how he felt, he always repliedthat he was getting worse. At last, in the evening, she burst intotears, and when he inquired what was the matter, she sobbed out:'Oh, my poor, poor husband, are you really dead? I must go to morrow andorder your coffin.'Now, when the man heard this, a cold shiver ran through his body, andall at once he knew that he was as well as he had ever been in his life.'Oh, no, no!' he cried, 'I feel quite recovered! Indeed, I think I shallgo out to work.''You will do no such thing,' replied his wife. 'Just keep quite quiet,for before the sun rises you will be a dead man.'The man was very frightened at her words, and lay absolutely still whilethe undertaker came and measured him for his coffin. and his wife gaveorders to the gravedigger about his grave. That evening the coffin wassent home, and in the morning at nine o'clock the woman put him on along flannel garment, and called to the undertaker's men to fasten downthe lid and carry him to the grave, where all their friends were waitingthem. Just as the body was being placed in the ground the other woman'shusband came running up, dressed, as far as anyone could see, in noclothes at all. Everybody burst into shouts of laughter at the sight ofhim, and the men laid down the coffin and laughed too, till their sidesnearly split. The dead man was so astonished at this behaviour, that hepeeped out of a little window in the side of the coffin, and cried out:'I should laugh as loudly as any of you, if I were not a dead man.'When they heard the voice coming from the coffin the other peoplesuddenly stopped laughing, and stood as if they had been turned intostone. Then they rushed with one accord to the coffin, and lifted thelid so that the man could step out amongst them.'Were you really not dead after all?' asked they. 'And if not, why didyou let yourself be buried?'At this the wives both confessed that they had each wished to prove thather husband was stupider than the other. But the villagers declared thatthey could not decide which was the most foolish the man who allowedhimself to be persuaded that he was wearing fine clothes when he wasdressed in nothing, or the man who let himself be buried when he wasalive and well.So the women quarrelled just as much as they did before, and no one everknew whose husband was the most foolish.