I see that you are fond of talks about fairies, children. and a storyabout a fairy and the goodwife of Kittlerumpit has just come into my mind.but I can't very well tell you now whereabouts Kittlerumpit lies. I thinkit is somewhere in the Debatable Ground. Anyway, I shall not pretend toknow more than I do, like everybody nowadays. I wish they would rememberthe ballad we used to sing long ago:Mony ane sings the gerss, the gerss,And mony ane sings the corn.And mony ane clatters o' bold Robin Hood,Ne'er kent where he was born.But howsoever about Kittlerumpit. The goodman was a rambling sort ofbody. and he went to a fair one day, and not only never came home again,but nevermore was heard of. Some said he 'listed, and others that thetiresome press gang snatched him up, though he was furnished with a wifeand a child to boot. Alas! that wretched press gang! They went about thecountry like roaring lions, seeking whom they might devour. Well do Iremember how my eldest brother Sandy was all but smothered in themeal chest, hiding from those rascals. After they were gone, we pulled himout from among the meal, puffing and crying, and as white as any corpse.My mother had to pick the meal out of his mouth with the shank of a hornspoon.Ah well, when the goodman of Kittlerumpit was gone, the goodwife wasleft with small means. Little resources had she, and a baby boy at herbreast. All said they were sorry for her. but nobody helped her   whichis a common case, sirs. Howsoever, the goodwife had a sow, and that washer only consolation. for the sow was soon to farrow, and she hoped for agood litter.But we all know hope is fallacious. One day the woman goes to the styto fill the sow's trough. and what does she find but the sow lying on herback, grunting and groaning, and ready to give up the ghost.I trow (trust, believe) this was a new pang to the goodwife's heart. soshe sat down on the knocking stone (a stone with a hollow in it forpounding grain, so as to separate the husks from the kernels), with herbairn (child) on her knee, and cried sorer than ever she did for the lossof her own goodman.Now I premise that the cottage of Kittlerumpit was built on a brae(hillside), with a large fir wood behind it, of which you may hear moreere we go far on. So the goodwife, when she was wiping her eyes, chancesto look down the brae. and what does she see but an old woman almost likea lady, coming slowly up the road. She was dressed in green, all but ashort white apron and a black velvet hood, and a steeple crowned beaverhat on her head. She had a long walking staff, as long as herself, in herhand   the sort of staff that old men and old women helped themselveswith long ago. I see no such staffs now, sirs.Ah well, when the goodwife saw the green gentlewoman near her, she roseand made a curtsy. and "Madam," quoth she, weeping, "I am one of the mostmisfortunate women alive.""I don't wish to hear pipers' news and fiddlers' tales, goodwife,"quoth the green woman. "I know you have lost your goodman   we had worselosses at the Sheriff Muir (a common saying, in response to a complaintabout a trifle). and I know that your sow is unco (strangely, extremely)sick. Now what will you give me if I cure her?""Anything your ladyship's madam likes," quoth the witless goodwife,never guessing whom she had to deal with."Let us wet thumbs on that bargain," quoth the green woman. so thumbswere wetted, I warrant you. and into the sty madam marches.She looks at the sow with a long stare, and then began to mutter toherself what the goodwife couldn't well understand. but she said itsounded likePitter patter,Holy water.Then she took out of her pocket a wee bottle, with something like oilin it. and she rubs the sow with it above the snout, behind the ears, andon the tip of the tail. "Get up, beast," quoth the green woman. No soonersaid than done. Up jumps the sow with a grunt, and away to her trough forher breakfast.The goodwife of Kittlerumpit was a joyful goodwife now, and would havekissed the very hem of the green woman's gown tail, but she wouldn't lether."I am not so fond of ceremonies," quoth she. "but now that I haverighted your sick beast, let us end our settled bargain. You will not findme an unreasonable, greedy body. I like ever to do a good turn for a smallreward. All I ask, and will have, is that baby boy in your bosom."The goodwife of Kittlerumpit, who now knew her customer, gave a shrillcry like a stuck swine. The green woman was a fairy, no doubt. so sheprays, and cries, and begs, and scolds. but all wouldn't do."You may spare your din," quoth the fairy, "screaming as if I was asdeaf as a doornail. But this I'll let you know: I cannot, by the law welive under, take your bairn till the third day. and not then, if you cantell me my right name."So madam goes away round the pigsty end. and the goodwife falls down ina swoon behind the knocking stone.Ah well, the goodwife of Kittlerumpit could not sleep any that nightfor crying, and all the next day the same, cuddling her bairn till shenearly squeezed its breath out. But the second day she thinks of taking awalk in the wood I told you of. And so with the bairn in her arms, shesets out, and goes far in among the trees, where was an old quarry hole,grown over with grass, and a bonny spring well in the middle of it. Beforeshe came very near, she hears the whirring of a flax wheel, and a voicesinging a song. so the woman creeps quietly among the bushes, and peepsover the brow of the quarry. and what does she see but the green fairytearing away at her wheel, and singing like any precentor:Little kens (knows) our guid dame at hame,That Whuppity Stoorie is my name."Ha, ha!" thinks the woman, "I've got the mason's word at last. Thedevil give them joy that told it!"So she went home far lighter than she came out, as you may well guess  laughing like a madcap with the thought of cheating the old greenfairy.Ah well, you must know that this goodwife was a jocose woman, and evermerry when her heart was not very sorely overladen. So she thinks to havesome sport with the fairy. and at the appointed time she puts the bairnbehind the knocking stone, and sits on the stone herself. Then she pullsher cap over her left ear and twists her mouth on the other side, as ifshe were weeping. and an ugly face she made, you may be sure. She hadn'tlong to wait, for up the brae climbs the green fairy, neither lame norlazy. and long ere she got near the knocking stone she screams out,"Goodwife of Kittlerumpit, you know well what I come for. Stand anddeliver!"The woman pretends to cry harder than before, and wrings her hands, andfalls on her knees with "Och, sweet madam mistress, spare my only bairn,and take the wretched sow!""The devil take the sow, for my part," quoth the fairy. "I come nothere for swine's flesh. Don't be contramawcious, huzzy, but give me thechild instantly!""Ochone, dear lady mine," quoth the crying goodwife. "forgo my poorbairn, and take me myself!""The devil is in the daft jade," quoth the fairy, looking like the farend of a fiddle. "I'll bet she is clean demented. Who in all the earthlyworld, with half an eye in his head, would ever meddle with the likes ofthee?"I trow this set up the woman of Kittlerumpit's bristle, for though shehad two blear eyes and a long red nose besides, she thought herself asbonny as the best of them. So she springs off her knees, sets the top ofher cap straight, and with her two hands folded before her, she makes acurtsy down to the ground, and, "In troth, fair madam," quoth she, "Imight have had the wit to know that the likes of me is not fit to tie theworst shoestrings of the high and mighty princess, WhuppityStoorie ."If a flash of gunpowder had come out of the ground it couldn't havemade the fairy leap higher than she did. Then down she came again plump onher shoe heels. and whirling round, she ran down the brae, screeching forrage, like an owl chased by the witches.The goodwife of Kittlerumpit laughed till she was like to split. thenshe takes up her bairn, and goes into her house, singing to it all theway:A goo and a gitty, my bonny wee tyke,Ye'se noo ha'e your four oories.Sin' we've gien Nick a bane to pyke,Wi' his wheels and his Whuppity Stoories.