Remains UnfinishedHans Puchsbaum, a journeyman mason in the Viennese CathedralConstruction Guild of Saint Stephen, was in love with Maria, the beautifuldaughter of Master Builder Hans von Brachawitz, who since the year 1430had been directing the construction of the south tower. The proud builderhad selected the son of a wealthy burgher to marry his daughter and wasthoroughly opposed to her affinity for Hans Puchsbaum."If you can finish the north tower at the same hour that I complete thesouth tower, then you may take Maria to wife," thundered hard heartedBrachawitz to his journeyman. This condition was practically impossible.No one would be able to complete such a construction project in so short atime. The hopes and dreams of poor Puchsbaum disappeared. In despair hestood there and murmured to himself: "Only the devil could complete such amasterpiece. I shall leave this city, and Maria will belong to anotherman."He had scarcely spoken these words when the Evil One appeared beforehim. "I will help you build the tower, but during the entire constructiontime you may not utter the name of God nor that of any of any of Hissaints, otherwise your soul will belong to me," was the offer made to himby the Spirit of Hell.Plagued with a bad conscience, Hans asked himself if he should build ahouse of God with the help of Satan. But his love of Maria conquered alldoubts, and he entered into the pact with the devil.The townspeople of Vienna watched in amazement as the north towerscaffolding grew upward and the construction advanced rapidly. Puchsbaumhimself was the most industrious of all the workers. Day and night hemixed mortar and set stones into place. The tower, growing ever higher,was decorated by the most glorious stone figures. Puchsbaum adheredrigorously to the conditions set by the devil, and it appeared less andless likely that the builder would have to surrender his soul.Then the Evil One resorted to trickery. Assuming Maria's shape, hewalked across Saint Stephen's Square with his head bowed. Hans Puchsbaum,who was standing high above on the scaffolding, recognized Maria.Forgetting his oath, he called out her name. Immediately the heavy beamsbroke apart and Puchsbaum fell to the ground. The tower remainedunfinished. No one dared continue with the devil's work.