One very cold winter, when the ground was coveredwith snow and the ponds and rivers werefrozen hard, Reynard the Fox and all the otheranimals went out to enjoy themselves by slidingand skating on the ice. After a time Reynardbegan to feel hungry, so he wandered off byhimself in search of something to eat. He nosed about here,and he nosed about there. he lay in wait behind bushes inthe hope of being able to catch a bird. he lurked by the wallsof farmhouses ready to spring out upon any unsuspectingchicken that might show itself, but all in vain. Thebirds were wary, and the fowls were all safe in the henhouses.Disappointed with his lack of success Reynard betookhimself to the river, now covered with a glistening sheet ofice, and there, under the shelter of a bank, he found a hole inthe ice which had not been frozen over. He sat down towatch the hole, and presently a little fish popped up its headfor a breath of air. Reynard's paw darted, and the nextmoment the unfortunate creature lay gasping on the ice.Fish after fish the fox caught in this way, and when he hadquite satisfied his hunger he strung the remainder on a stickand took his departure, not forgetting first of all to offer up aprayer for the repose of his victims.He had not gone far before he met Mrs. Bruin, who hadalso come out in search of something to eat. When shesaw Reynard with his fine catch of fish, she opened her eyes,I can tell you, and said, "Wherever did you get allthose fine fishes from, cousin? They make my mouthwater! I am so hungry that I could bite the head off aniron nail!""Ah," said Reynard slyly, "wouldn't you just like toknow!""It is what I'm asking you," said Mrs. Bruin. "Youwould surely not be so mean as to keep the good news toyourself!""I don't know so much about that," answered Reynard,"but I have a certain fondness for you, cousin, so comealong with me and I will show you the place where I caughtthe fish."Nothing loath, the bear followed, and presently they cameto the hole in the ice."Do you see that hole, cousin?" said Reynard. "Thatis where the fish come up to breathe. All you have to do isto sit on the ice and let your tail hang down into the water.After a time the fish will come to bite at it, but don't youmove. Sit quite still until the evening. then you will find ascore of fishes on your tail and you can pull them outall together."Mrs. Bruin was delighted with the plan and immediatelysat down and dipped her tail into the water."That's the way," said Reynard. "Now I'll just bewalking home to see to my dinner, but I'll be back presently.Be careful to keep quite still, or you ll spoil everything!"So for the next three hours Mrs. Bruin sat on the ice withher tail in the water, and very cold it was, but she consoledherself with the thought of the delicious meal she would havewhen the fish were landed.Reynard returned. " Well, cousin," siad he, "how do you feel?""Very cold," said Mrs. Bruin, with her teeth chattering. "My tail is so numb that I hardly know I've got one!""Doe it feel heavy?" asked Reynard anxiously."Very heavy," said Mrs. Bruin."There mus be hundreds of fish on it!" said Reynard.He left the bank and walked round the bear, observing that the water in the hole had frozen over, and the Mrs. Bruin's tail was hel firmly in the ice."I think you may safely pull up now," he went on, "butyou must be careful to land all the fish together. There isonly one way to do that: you must give a strong, sharp,sudden pull and take them by surprise. Now then, are youready? One, two, three . . . !"At the word three Mrs. Bruin rose on her hind legs andgave a mighty jerk, but her tail was so firmly embedded inthe ice that it would not come out."My word," cried Reynard, "you have caught the wholeriver full. Persevere, cousin now then, a long pull and astrong pull!""Ouf!" grunted Mrs. Bruin, "ouf, ouf . . . ah!"And then she suddenly tumbled head over heels on the ice,as with one mighty jerk, she snapped her beautiful bushytail clean off close to the roots.When she had gathered her scattered wits together wellenough to understand what had happened, she went to lookfor Reynard, but he had suddenly remembered an importantengagement elsewhere, and was not to be found. And fromthat time down to this every bear has been born with a littlestumpy tail.