In a certain Japanese village there grew a great willow tree. For manygenerations the people loved it. In the summer it was a resting place, aplace where the villagers might meet after the work and heat of the daywere over, and there talk till the moonlight streamed through thebranches. In winter it was like a great half opened umbrella covered withsparkling snow.Heitaro, a young farmer, lived quite near this tree, and he, more thanany of his companions, had entered into a deep communion with the imposingwillow. It was almost the first object he saw upon waking, and upon hisreturn from work in the fields he looked out eagerly for its familiarform. Sometimes he would burn a joss stick beneath its branches and kneeldown and pray.One day an old man of the village came to Heitaro and explained to himthat the villagers were anxious to build a bridge over the river, and thatthey particularly wanted the great willow tree for timber."For timber?" said Heitaro, hiding his face in his hands. "My dearwillow tree for a bridge, one to bear the incessant patter of feet? Never,never, old man!"When Heitaro had somewhat recovered himself, he offered to give the oldman some of his own trees, if he and the villagers would accept them fortimber and spare the ancient willow.The old man readily accepted this offer, and the willow tree continuedto stand in the village as it had stood for so many years.One night while Heitaro sat under the great willow he suddenly saw abeautiful woman standing close beside him, looking at him shyly, as ifwanting to speak."Honorable lady," said he, "I will go home. I see you wait for someone. Heitaro is not without kindness towards those who love.""He will not come now," said the woman, smiling."Can he have grown cold? Oh, how terrible when a mock love comes andleaves ashes and a grave behind!""He has not grown cold, dear lord.""And yet he does not come! What strange mystery is this?""He has come! His heart has been always here, here under this willowtree." And with a radiant smile the woman disappeared.Night after night they met under the old willow tree. The woman'sshyness had entirely disappeared, and it seemed that she could not heartoo much from Heitaro's lips in praise of the willow under which they sat.One night he said to her, "Little one, will you be my wife   you whoseem to come from the very tree itself?""Yes," said the woman. "Call me Higo ("Willow") and ask no questions,for love of me. I have no father or mother, and someday you willunderstand."Heitaro and Higo were married, and in due time they were blessed with achild, whom they called Chiyodo. Simple was their dwelling, but those itcontained were the happiest people in all Japan.While this happy couple went about their respective duties great newscame to the village. The villagers were full of it, and it was not longbefore it reached Heitaro's ears. The ex Emperor Toba wished to build atemple to Kwannon (goddess of mercy) in Kyoto, and those in authority sentfar and wide for timber. The villagers said that they must contributetowards building the sacred edifice by presenting their great willow tree.All Heitaro's argument and persuasion and promise of other trees wereineffectual, for neither he nor anyone else could give as large andhandsome a tree as the great willow.Heitaro went home and told his wife. "Oh, wife," said he, "they areabout to cut down our dear willow tree! Before I married you I could nothave borne it. Having you, little one, perhaps I shall get over itsomeday."That night Heitaro was aroused by hearing a piercing cry."Heitaro," said his wife, "it grows dark! The room is full of whispers.Are you there, Heitaro? Hark! They are cutting down the willow tree. Lookhow its shadow trembles in the moonlight. I am the soul of the willowtree. The villagers are killing me. Oh, how they cut and tear me topieces! Dear Heitaro, the pain, the pain! Put your hands here, and here.Surely the blows cannot fall now!""My Willow Wife! My Willow Wife!" sobbed Heitaro."Husband," said Higo, very faintly, pressing her wet, agonized faceclose to his, "I am going now. Such a love as ours cannot be cut down,however fierce the blows. I shall wait for you and Chiyodo   My hair isfalling through the sky! My body is breaking!"There was a loud crash outside. The great willow tree lay green anddisheveled upon the ground.Heitaro looked round for her he loved more than anything else in theworld. Willow Wife had gone!