The dogs of the air often bark on a dark night on the heath, in thewoods, or at a crossroads. Country dwellers know their leader Wod andpity the traveler who has not yet reached home, for Wod is oftenmalicious, seldom kind. The rough huntsman spares only those who remainin the middle of the path. Therefore he often calls out to travelers,"In the middle of the path!"One night a drunk peasant was returning home from town. His path led himthrough the woods. There he heard the wild hunt with the huntsmanshouting at his noisy dogs high in the air.A voice called out, "In the middle of the path! In the middle of thepath!" But the peasant paid no attention to it.Suddenly a tall man on a white horse bolted from the clouds andapproached him. "How strong are you?" he said. "Let's have a contest.Here is a chain. Take hold of it. Who can pull the hardest?"Undaunted, the peasant took hold of the heavy chain, and the huntsmanremounted. Meanwhile the peasant wrapped his end of the chain around anearby oak tree, and the huntsman pulled in vain."You wrapped your end around the oak tree," said Wod, dismounting."No," responded the peasant, quickly undoing the chain. "See, here it isin my hands.""I'll have you in the clouds!" cried the huntsman and remounted. Thepeasant quickly wrapped the chain around the oak tree once again, andonce again Wod pulled in vain. Up above the dogs barked, the wagonsrolled, and the horses neighed. The oak tree creaked at its roots andseemed to twist itself sideways. The peasant was terrified, but the oaktree stood."You have pulled well!" said the huntsman. "Many men have become mine.You are the first who has withstood me. I will reward you."The hunt proceeded noisily, "Halloo! Halloo!" The peasant crept alonghis way. Then suddenly, from unseen heights, a groaning stag fell beforehim. Wod appeared and jumped from his white horse. He hurriedly cut upthe game."The blood is yours," he said to the peasant, "and a hind quarter aswell.""My lord," said the peasant, "your servant has neither a bucket nor apot.""Pull off your boot!" cried Wod.He did it."Now take the blood and the meat to your wife and child."At first his fear lightened the burden, but gradually it became heavierand heavier until he was barely able to carry it. With a crooked backand dripping with sweat he finally reached his hut, and behold, his bootwas filled with gold, and the hind quarter was a leather bag filled withsilver coins.