Zadig's wife Azora went to console Cosrou, a young widow who only twodays earlier had buried her husband. His tomb stood on the bank of astream, and in her grief the widow had vowed to remain steadfastly besidethe tomb until the stream no longer flowed by it. To Azora's dismay, whenshe arrived at the tomb she discovered that the once faithful widow wasnow busily digging a new channel to divert the stream away from herhusband's tomb.Quick to judge the widow's lapse from loyalty, Azora reported herexperience to her husband Zadig. Azora's vehement and self righteousreproaches led Zadig to distrust her own motivation, and, with the help ofa young friend named Cador, he devised a scheme to test her integrity.Feigning death, Zadig had his body laid to rest in the tomb of hisancestors. Azora wept, tore her hair, and vowed to die.That evening Cador, whose youthful good lucks had not gone unnoticed byAzora, came to console her, and they mourned together. The next day theydined together as well. Then Cador informed the widow that Zadig had leftmost of his fortune to him, but that he would be happy to share it withher. She protested at first, but did not decline his offer.Supper that evening lasted longer than had their dinner, and the twoconversed together intimately, until Cador suddenly complained of aviolent pain in his spleen. "It is an old malady," he claimed, "and thereis but one remedy. I can be cured only by holding against my side thesevered nose of a man who has been dead only one or two days."Although the remedy seemed strange to her, she had heard of strangercures for other maladies. This fact, combined with the obvious merits ofthe suffering man, brought Azora to the quick decision to sacrifice herdeceased husband's nose for the well being of his young friend. Taking arazor she went to her husband's tomb and approached the body.Zadig rescued his nose only by holding it with one hand while fendingoff the razor with the other. "Madam," said he, "is not your attempt tocut off my nose as bad as Cosrou's intention of diverting a stream?"