By the river Kingin stands the great stone image, or Miryek, that was cutout of the solid rock ages ago. Its base lies far beneath the ground andaround its granite cap, many feet square, the storm clouds gather and playas they roll down the mountain.Down under the earth, near this mighty colossus, lived a soft furred moleand his wife. One day a daughter was born to them. It was the mostwonderful mole baby that ever was known. The father was so proud of hislovely offspring that he determined to marry her only to the grandestthing in the whole universe. Nothing else would satisfy his pride in thebeautiful creature he called his own.Father Mole sought long and hard to find out where and what, in allnature, was considered the most wonderful. He called in his neighbors andtalked over the matter with them. Then he visited the king of the molesand asked the wise ones in his court to decide for him. One and all agreedthat the Great Blue Sky was above everything else in glory and greatness.So up to the Sky the Mole Father went and offered his daughter to be thebride of the Great Blue, telling how, with his vast azure robe, the Skyhad the reputation, both on the earth and under it, of being the greatestthing in the universe.But, much to the Mole Father's surprise, the Sky declined. "No, I am notthe greatest. I must refer you to the Sun. He controls me, for he can makeit day or night as he pleases. Only when he rises, can I wear my brightcolors. When he goes down, darkness covers the world, and men do not seeme at all, but the stars instead. Better take your charming daughter tohim."So to the Sun went Mr. Mole and though afraid to look directly into hisface, he made his plea. He would have the Sun marry his attractivedaughter. But the mighty luminary, that usually seemed so fierce, dazzlingmen's eyesight and able to burn up the very grass of the field, seemedsuddenly very modest. Instead of accepting at once the offer, the Sun saidto the father, "Alas! I am not master. The Cloud is greater than I, for heis able to cover me up and make me invisible for days and weeks. I am notas powerful as you think me to be. Let me advise you to offer yourdaughter to the Cloud."Surprised at this, the Mole Father looked quite disappointed. Now he wasin doubt as to what time he had best propose to the Cloud,   when it wassilvery white and glistening in a summer afternoon, or when it was blackand threatening a tempest. However, his ambition to get for his daughterthe mightiest possible bridegroom prompted him to wait until thelightnings flashed and the thunder rolled. Then, appearing before theterrible dark Cloud that shot out fire, he told of the charms of hiswonderful daughter and offered her as bride."And why do you come to me?" asked the Cloud, its face inky black with thewrath of a storm and its eyes red with the fires of lightning."Because you are not only the greatest thing in the universe, but you haveproved it by your terrible power," replied the Father Mole.At this the Cloud ceased its rolling, stopped its fire and thunder andalmost laughed. "So far from being the greatest thing in the world, I amnot even my own master. See already how the Wind is driving me. Soon Ishall be invisible, dissolved in air. Let me commend you to the Wind. TheMaster of the Cloud will make a grand son in law."Thereupon Papa Mole waited until the Wind calmed down, after blowing awaythe clouds. Then telling of his daughter's accomplishments and loveliness,he made proffer of his only child as bride to the Wind. But the Wind wasnot half so proud as the Mole Father had expected to find him. Verymodest, almost bashful seemed the Wind, as he confessed that beforeMiryek, the colossal stone image, his power was naught."Why, I smite that Great Stone Face and its eyes do not even blink. I roarin his ears, but he minds it not. I try to make him sneeze, but he willnot. Smite him as I may, he still stands unmoved and smiling. Alas, no. Iam not the grandest thing in the universe, while Miryek stands. Go to him.He alone is worthy to marry your daughter."By this time the Mole Father was not only footsore and weary, but muchdiscouraged also. Evidently all appreciated his shining daughter. butwould he be able, after all, to get her a worthy husband?He rested himself a while and then proceeded to Miryek, the colossus ofgranite as large as a lighthouse, its head far up in the air, but withears ready to hear. The Mole Father squeaked out compliments to the imageas being by common confession the greatest thing on earth. He presentedhis request for a son in law and then in detail mentioned theaccomplishments of his daughter, sounding her praises at great length.Indeed, he almost ruined his case by talking so long.With stony patience, Miryek listened to the proud father with a twinkle inhis white granite eyes. When his lips moved, he was heard to say, "FondParent, what you say is true. I am great. I care not for the sky day ornight, for I remain the same in daylight and darkness. I fear not the sun,that cannot melt me, nor the frost that is not able to make me crumble.Cold or hot, in summer or in winter time, I remain unchanged. The cloudscome and go, but they cannot move me. Their fire and noise, lightning andthunder, I fear not. Yes, I am great." Then the stone lips closed again."You will make, then, a good bridegroom for my daughter? You will marryher, I understand?" asked the proud father as his hopes began to rise,though he was still doubtful."I would gladly do so, if I were greatest. But I am not," said Miryek."Down under my feet is the Mole. He digs with his shovel like hands andmakes burrows day and night. His might I cannot resist. Soon he shallundermine my base and I shall topple down and lie like common stone alongthe earth. Yes I by universal confession, the Mole is the greatest thingin the universe and to him I yield. Better marry your daughter to him."So after all his journeying, the lovely daughter's father sought nofurther. Advised on all sides, and opinion being unanimous, he found outthat the Mole was the greatest thing in the universe. His daughter'sbridegroom was found at home and of the same family of creatures. Hemarried her to a young and handsome Mole, and great was the joy andrejoicing at the wedding. The pair were well mated and lived happily everafterward.