Sometimes in spring, when the big river flooded its banks and madelakes of the meadows, and the little rivers flowed deep, old Peterspent a few days netting fish. Also in summer he set night lines inthe little river not far from where it left the forest. And so ithappened that one day he sat in the warm sunshine outside his hut,mending his nets and making floats for them. not cork floats likeours, but little rolls of the silver bark of the birch tree.And while he sat there Vanya and Maroosia watched him, and sometimeseven helped, holding a piece of the net between them, while old Peterfastened on the little glistening rolls of bark that were to keep itup in the water. And all the time old Peter worked he smoked, and toldthem stories about fish.First he told them what happened when the first pike was born, and howit is that all the little fish are not eaten by the great pike withhis huge greedy mouth and his sharp teeth.On the night of Ivanov's Day (that is the day of Saint John, which isMidsummer) there was born the pike, a huge fish, with such teeth asnever were. And when the pike was born the waters of the river foamedand raged, so that the ships in the river were all but swamped, andthe pretty young girls who were playing on the banks ran away as fastas they could, frightened, they were, by the roaring of the waves, andthe black wind and the white foam on the water. Terrible was the birthof the sharp toothed pike.And when the pike was born he did not grow up by months or by days,but by hours. Every day it was two inches longer than the day before.In a month it was two yards long. in two months it was twelve feetlong. in three months it was raging up and down the river like atempest, eating the bream and the perch, and all the small fish thatcame in its way. There was a bream or a perch swimming lazily in thestream. The pike saw it as it raged by, caught it in its great whitemouth, and instantly the bream or the perch was gone, torn to piecesby the pike's teeth, and swallowed as you would swallow a sunflowerseed. And bream and perch are big fish. It was worse for the littleones.(: "Head in air and tail in sea,Fish, fish, listen to me")What was to be done? The bream and the perch put their heads togetherin a quiet pool. It was clear enough that the great pike would eateveryone of them. So they called a meeting of all the little fish,and set to thinking what could be done by way of dealing with thegreat pike, which had such sharp teeth and was making so free withtheir lives.They all came to the meeting bream, and perch, and roach, and dace,and gudgeon. yes, and the little ersh with his spiny back.The silly roach said, "Let us kill the pike."But the gudgeon looked at him with his great eyes, and asked, "Haveyou got good teeth?""No," says the roach, "I haven't any teeth.""You'd swallow the pike, I suppose?" says the perch."My mouth is too small.""Then do not use it to talk foolishness," said the gudgeon. and theroach's fins blushed scarlet, and are red to this day."I will set my prickles on end," says the perch, who has a row ofsharp prickles in the fin on his back. "The pike won't find them toocomfortable in his throat.""Yes," said the bream. "but you will have to go into his throat to putthem there, and he'll swallow you all the same. Besides, we have notall got prickles."There was a lot more foolishness talked. Even the minnows hadsomething to say, until they were made to be quiet by the dace.Now the little ersh had come to the meeting, with his spiny back, andhis big front fins, and his head all shining in blue and gold andgreen. And when he had heard all they had to say, he began to talk."Think away," says he, "and break your heads, and spoil your brains,if ever you had any. but listen for a moment to what I have to say."And all the fish turned to listen to the ersh, who is the cleverest ofall the little fish, because he has a big head and a small body."Listen," says the ersh. "It is clear enough that the pike lives inthis big river, and that he does not give the little fish a chance,crunches them all with his sharp teeth, and swallows them ten at atime. I quite agree that it would be much better for everybody if hecould be killed. but not one of us is strong enough for that. We arenot strong enough to kill him. but we can starve him, and saveourselves at the same time. There's no living in the big river whilehe is here. Let all us little fish clear out, and go and live in thelittle rivers that flow into the big. There the waters are shallow,and we can hide among the weeds. No one will touch us there, and wecan live and bring up our children in peace, and only be in dangerwhen we go visiting from one little river to another. And as for thegreat pike, we will leave him alone in the big river to rage hungrilyup and down. His teeth will soon grow blunt, for there will be nothingfor him to eat."All the little fish waved their fins and danced in the water when theyheard the wisdom of the ersh's speech. And the ersh and the roach,and the bream and the perch, and the dace and the gudgeon left the bigriver and swam up the little rivers between the green meadows. Andthere they began again to live in peace and bring up their littleones, though the cunning fishermen set nets in the little rivers andcaught many of them on their way. From that time on there have neverbeen many little fish in the big river.And as for the monstrous pike, he swam up and down the great river,lashing the waters, and driving his nose through the waves, but foundno food for his sharp teeth. He had to take to worms, and was caughtin the end on a fisherman's hook. Yes, and the fisherman made a soupof him the best fish soup that ever was made. He was a friend of minewhen I was a boy, and he gave me a taste in my wooden spoon.Then he told them the story of other pike, and particularly of thepike that was king of a river, and made the little fish come togetheron the top of the water so that the young hunter could cross over withdry feet. And he told them of the pike that hid the lover of theprincess by swallowing him and lying at the bottom of a deep pool, andhow the princess saw her lover sitting in the pike, when the big fishopened his mouth to snap up a little perch that swam too near hisnose. Then he told them of the big trial in the river, when the fisheschose judges, and made a case at law against the ersh, and found himguilty, and how the ersh spat in the faces of the judges and swammerrily away.Finally, he told them the story of the Golden Fish. But that is along story, and a chapter all by itself, and begins on the next page.