Perhaps you think that fishes were always fishes, and never livedanywhere except in the water, but if you went to Australia and talked tothe black people in the sandy desert in the centre of the country, youwould learn something quite different. They would tell you that long,long ago you would have met fishes on the land, wandering from place toplace, and hunting all sorts of animals, and if you consider how fishesare made, you will understand how difficult this must have been and howclever they were to do it. Indeed, so clever were they that they mighthave been hunting still if a terrible thing had not happened.One day the whole fish tribe came back very tired from a huntingexpedition, and looked about for a nice, cool spot in which to pitchtheir camp. It was very hot, and they thought that they could not finda more comfortable place than under the branches of a large tree whichgrew by the bank of a river. So they made their fire to cook some food,right on the edge of a steep bank, which had a deep pool of water lyingbeneath it at the bottom. While the food was cooking they all stretchedthemselves lazily out under the tree, and were just dropping off tosleep when a big black cloud which they had never noticed spread overthe sun, and heavy drops of rain began to fall, so that the fire wasalmost put out, and that, you know, is a very serious thing in savagecountries where they have no matches, for it is very hard to light itagain. To make matters worse, an icy wind began to blow, and the poorfishes were chilled right through their bodies.'This will never do,' said Thuggai, the oldest of the fish tribe. 'Weshall die of cold unless we can light the fire again,' and he bade hissons rub two sticks together in the hope of kindling a flame, but thoughthey rubbed till they were tired, not a spark could they produce.'Let me try,' cried Biernuga, the bony fish, but he had no better luck,and no more had Kumbal, the bream, nor any of the rest.'It is no use,' exclaimed Thuggai, at last. 'The wood is too wet. Wemust just sit and wait till the sun comes out again and dries it.'Then a very little fish indeed, not more than four inches long and theyoungest of the tribe, bowed himself before Thuggai, saying, 'Ask myfather, Guddhu the cod, to light the fire. He is skilled in magic morethan most fishes.' So Thuggai asked him, and Guddhu stripped some piecesof bark off a tree, and placed them on top of the smouldering ashes.Then he knelt by the side of the fire and blew at it for a long while,till slowly the feeble red glow became a little stronger and the edgesof the bark showed signs of curling up. When the rest of the tribe sawthis they pressed close, keeping their backs towards the piercing wind,but Guddhu told them they must go to the other side, as he wanted thewind to fan his fire. By and by the spark grew into a flame, and a merrycrackling was heard.'More wood,' cried Guddhi, and they all ran and gathered wood and heapedit on the flames, which leaped and roared and sputtered.'We shall soon be warm now,' said the people one to another. 'TrulyGuddhu is great'. and they crowded round again, closer and closer.Suddenly, with a shriek, a blast of wind swept down from the hillsand blew the fire out towards them. They sprang back hurriedly, quiteforgetting where they stood, and all fell down the bank, each tumblingover the other, till they rolled into the pool that lay below. Oh, howcold it was in that dark water on which the sun never shone! Then in aninstant they felt warm again, for the fire, driven by the strong wind,had followed them right down to the bottom of the pool, where it burnedas brightly as ever. And the fishes gathered round it as they had doneon the top of the cliff, and found the flames as hot as before, and thatfire never went out, like those upon land, but kept burning for ever.So now you know why, if you dive deep down below the cold surface ofthe water on a frosty day, you will find it comfortable and pleasantunderneath, and be quite sorry that you cannot stay there.Australian Folk Tale.