Among the mountain pastures and valleys that lie in the centre of Francethere dwelt a mischievous kind of spirit, whose delight it was to playtricks on everybody, and particularly on the shepherds and the cowboys.They never knew when they were safe from him, as he could change himselfinto a man, woman or child, a stick, a goat, a ploughshare. Indeed,there was only one thing whose shape he could not take, and that was aneedle. At least, he could transform himself into a needle, but try ashe might he never was able to imitate the hole, so every woman wouldhave found him out at once, and this he knew.Now the hour oftenest chosen by this naughty sprite (whom we willcall Puck) for performing his pranks was about midnight, just when theshepherds and cowherds, tired out with their long day's work, were soundasleep. Then he would go into the cowsheds and unfasten the chains thatfixed each beast in its own stall, and let them fall with a heavy clangto the ground. The noise was so loud that it was certain to awaken thecowboys, however fatigued they might be, and they dragged themselveswearily to the stable to put back the chains. But no sooner had theyreturned to their beds than the same thing happened again, and so ontill the morning. Or perhaps Puck would spend his night in plaitingtogether the manes and tails of two of the horses, so that it would takethe grooms hours of labour to get them right in the morning, while Puck,hidden among the hay in the loft, would peep out to watch them, enjoyinghimself amazingly all the time.One evening more than eighty years ago a man named William was passingalong the bank of a stream when he noticed a sheep who was bleatingloudly. William thought it must have strayed from the flock, and that hehad better take it home with him till he could discover its owner. Sohe went up to where it was standing, and as it seemed so tired that itcould hardly walk, he hoisted it on his shoulders and continued onhis way. The sheep was pretty heavy, but the good man was merciful andstaggered along as best he could under his load.'It is not much further,' he thought to himself as he reached an avenueof walnut trees, when suddenly a voice spoke out from over his head, andmade him jump.'Where are you?' said the voice, and the sheep answered:'Here on the shoulders of a donkey.'In another moment the sheep was standing on the ground and William wasrunning towards home as fast as his legs would carry him. But as hewent, a laugh, which yet was something of a bleat, rang in his ears, andthough he tried not to hear, the words reached him, 'Oh, dear! What funI have had, to be sure!'Puck was careful not always to play his tricks in the same place, butvisited one village after another, so that everyone trembled lest heshould be the next victim. After a bit he grew tired of cowboys andshepherds, and wondered if there was no one else to give him some sport.At length he was told of a young couple who were going to the nearesttown to buy all that they needed for setting up house. Quite certainthat they would forget something which they could not do without, Puckwaited patiently till they were jogging along in their cart on theirreturn journey, and changed himself into a fly in order to overheartheir conversation.For a long time it was very dull all about their wedding day nextmonth, and who were to be invited. This led the bride to her weddingdress, and she gave a little scream.'Just think! Oh! how could I be so stupid! I have forgotten to buy thedifferent coloured reels of cotton to match my clothes!''Dear, dear!' exclaimed the young man. 'That is unlucky. and didn't youtell me that the dressmaker was coming in to morrow?''Yes, I did,' and then suddenly she gave another little scream, whichhad quite a different sound from the first. 'Look! Look!'The bridegroom looked, and on one side of the road he saw a large ballof thread of all colours of all the colours, that is, of the dressesthat were tied on to the back of the cart.'Well, that is a wonderful piece of good fortune,' cried he, as hesprang out to get it. 'One would think a fairy had put it there onpurpose.''Perhaps she has,' laughed the girl, and as she spoke she seemed to hearan echo of her laughter coming from the horse, but of course that wasnonsense.The dressmaker was delighted with the thread that was given her. Itmatched the stuffs so perfectly, and never tied itself in knots, orbroke perpetually, as most thread did. She finished her work muchquicker than she expected and the bride said she was to be sure to cometo the church and see her in her wedding dress.There was a great crowd assembled to witness the ceremony, for the youngpeople were immense favourites in the neighbourhood, and their parentswere very rich. The doors were open, and the bride could be seen fromafar, walking under the chestnut avenue.'What a beautiful girl!' exclaimed the men. 'What a lovely dress!'whispered the women. But just as she entered the church and took thehand of the bridegroom, who was waiting for her, a loud noise was heard.'Crick! crack! Crick! crack!' and the wedding garments fell to theground, to the great confusion of the wearer.Not that the ceremony was put off for a little thing like that! Cloaksin profusion were instantly offered to the young bride, but she was soupset that she could hardly keep from tears. One of the guests, morecurious than the rest, stayed behind to examine the dress, determined,if she could, to find out the cause of the disaster.'The thread must have been rotten,' she said to herself. 'I will see ifI can break it.' But search as she would she could find none.The thread had vanished!From 'Litterature Orale de l'Auvergne,' par Paul Sebillot.