The next time the little boy visited Uncle Remus he persuaded Tildy togo with him. Daddy Jack was in his usual place, dozing and talking tohimself, while Uncle Remus oiled the carriage harness. After a while AuntTempy came in.The conversation turned on Daddy Jack's story about "haunts" andspirits (the previous story in the collection, "Spirits, Seen andUnseen"). Finally Tildy said, "When it comes to tales about haunts, I heartell of one that will just naturally make the kinks on your head uncurlthemselves.""What tale is that, child?" asked Aunt Tempy."Uncle Remus, must I tell it?""Let it come," said Uncle Remus."Well then," said Tildy, rolling her eyes back and displaying her whiteteeth:One time there was a woman and a man. It seems like they lived close toone another, and the man, he set his eyes on the woman, and the woman, shejust went along and tended to her business. The man, he kept his eyes seton her. By and by, the woman, she tended to her business so much that shetook sick and died. The man, he up and told her folks she was dead, andthe folks came and fixed her. They laid her out, and they lit somecandles, and they sat up with her, just like folks do now, and they puttwo big round shiny silver dollars on her eyes to hold her eyelids down.In describing the silver dollars Tildy joined the ends of her thumbsand forefingers together, and made a figure as large as a saucer. "Theywere lots bigger that dollars are these days." She continued:And they looked mighty pretty. It seems like they were all the money thewoman had, and the folks put them on her eyelids to hold them down. Thenwhen the folks did that, they called on the man and told him he would haveto dig a grave and bury the woman, and then they all went off about theirbusiness.Well, then the man, he took and dug the grave and made ready to burythe woman. He looked at that money on her eyelids, and it shined mightypretty. Then he took it off and felt it. It felt might good, but justabout that time, the man looked at the woman, and he saw her eyelids open.It looked like she was looking at him, and he took and put the money wherehe got it from.Well, then the man, he took and got a wagon and hauled the woman out tothe burying ground, and when he got there he fixed everything, and then hegrabbed the money and covered up the grave right quick. Then he went homeand put the money in a tin box and rattled it around. It rattled loud andit rattled nice, but the man, he didn't feel so good. It seems like heknew the woman's eyelids were stretched wide open looking for him. Yet herattled the money around, and it rattled loud and it rattled nice.Well, then the man, he took and put the tin box with the money on themantel shelf. The day went by, and night came, and when night came, thewind began to rise up and blow. It rose high and it blew strong. It blewon top of the house. It blew under the house. It blew around the house.The man, he felt queer. He sat by the fire and listened. The wind said"Buzz zoo o o o o!" The man listened. The wind hollered and cried. It blewon top of the house. It blew under the house. It blew around the house. Itblew into the house. The man got close to the chimney jamb. The wind foundthe cracks and blew in them. "Bizzy, bizzy, buzz zoo o o o o!"Well, then the man, he listened and listened, but by and by he gottired of this, and he allowed to himself that he was going to bed. He tookand flung a freshly lighted knot into the fire, and then he jumped intobed, and curled himself up, and put his head under the covers.The wind hunted for the cracks, "Bizzy buzz, bizzy buzz,buzz zoo o o o o!" The man kept his head under the covers. The lightedknot flared up and flickered. The man didn't dare to move. The wind blewand whistled, "Phew fee e e e!" The lighted knot flickered and flared. Theman, he kept his head covered.Well, then the man lay there, and got scareder and scareder. Hescarcely dared to wink his eyes, and it seemed like he was going to haveswamp fever. While he was lying there shaking, and the wind was a blowing,and the fire flickering, he heard some other kind of noise. It was amighty curious kind of noise, "Clinkity, clinkalinkle!"The man said, "Hey! Who is stealing my money?"But he kept his head covered while he lay and listened. He heard thewind blow, and then he heard that other kind of noise, "Clinkity, clink,clinkity, clinkalinkle!"Well, then he flung off the covers and sat right up in bed. He looked,but he didn't see anything. The fire flickered and flared, and the windblew. The man went and put a chain and a bar across the door. Then he wentback to bed, and he had no more than touched his head on the pillow whenhe heard this other noise, "Clink, clink, clinkity, clinkalinkle!" The mangot up, but he didn't see anything at all. Mighty queer!Just about the time was going to lie down again, here came the noise,"Clinkity, clinkalinkle." It sounded like it was on the mantle shelf. Notonly that, it sounded like it was in the tin box on the mantle shelf. Notonly that, it sounded like it was the money in the tin box on the mantleshelf.The man said, "Hey! A rat done got in the box!"The man looked. No rat was there. He shut up the box and set it down onthe shelf. As he did that, here came the noise, "Clinkity, clinkity,clinkalinkle!"The man opened the box and looked at the money. Those two silverdollars were lying there just like he put them. While the man was doingthis, it seemed liked he could hear something saying, away off yonder,"Where's my money? Oh, give me my money! I want my money!"Well, then the man got scared sure enough, and he got a flatiron andput it on the tin box, and then he took and piled all the chairs againstthe door, and ran and jumped into bed. He just knew there was a boogiecoming. By the time he got into bed and covered his head, the moneyrattled louder, and something cried away off yonder, "I want my money! Oh,give me my money!"The man, he shook and he shivered. The money, it clinked and rattled.And the boogie, it hollered and cried. The boogie came closer. The moneyclinked louder. The man shook worse and worse.The money said, "Clinkity, clinkalinkle!"The boogie cried, "Oh, give me my money!"The man hollered, "Oh, Lordy, Lordy!"Well, then it kept on this way until the man heard the door open. Hepeeped from under the covers, and in walked the woman that he had buriedin the burying ground. The man shivered and shivered. The wind blew andblew. The money rattled and rattled. The woman cried and cried."Buzz zoo o o o o!" said the wind."Clinkalink!" said the box."Oh, give me my money!" said the woman."Oh, Lordy!" said the man.The woman heard the money, but it looked like she couldn't see it, andshe groped around, and groped around, and groped around with her hands inthe air like this.Here Tildy stood up, pushed her chair back with her foot, raised her armsover her head, and leaned forward in the direction of Daddy Jack.The wind was blowing. The fire was flickering. The money was rattling.The man was shaking and shivering. The woman was groping around andsaying, "Give me my money! Oh, who's got my money?"Tildy advanced a few steps.The money looked like it was going to tear the tin box all to flinders.The woman groped and cried, until by and by she jumped on the man andhollered, "You've got my money!"As she reached this climax, Tildy sprang at Daddy Jack and seized him, andfor a few moments there was considerable confusion in the corner. Thelittle boy was frightened, but the collapsed appearance of Daddy Jackconvulsed him with laughter. The old African was very angry. His littleeyes glistened with momentary malice, and he shook his cane threateninglyat Tildy. The latter coolly adjusted her earrings, as she exclaimed,"There now! I knew I'd get even with the old villain. Come a calling mepigeon toed!""Better keep your eye on him, child," said Aunt Tempy. "He'll bewitchyou for sure.""Bewitch who? If he comes bewitching around me, I'll break his back,I'm telling you that right point blank."