What Irish man, woman, or child has not heard of our renowned HibernianHercules, the great and glorious Fin M'Coul? Not one, from Cape Clearto the Giant's Causeway, nor from that back again to Cape Clear. And,by the way, speaking of the Giant's Causeway brings me at once to thebeginning of my story. Well, it so happened that Fin and his men wereall working at the Causeway, in order to make a bridge across toScotland. when Fin, who was very fond of his wife Oonagh, took it intohis head that he would go home and see how the poor woman got on in hisabsence. So, accordingly, he pulled up a fir tree, and, after loppingoff the roots and branches, made a walking stick of it, and set out onhis way to Oonagh.Oonagh, or rather Fin, lived at this time on the very tip top ofKnockmany Hill, which faces a cousin of its own called Cullamore, thatrises up, half hill, half mountain, on the opposite side.There was at that time another giant, named Cucullin some say he wasIrish, and some say he was Scotch but whether Scotch or Irish, sorrowdoubt of it but he was a targer. No other giant of the day could standbefore him. and such was his strength, that, when well vexed, he couldgive a stamp that shook the country about him. The fame and name of himwent far and near. and nothing in the shape of a man, it was said, hadany chance with him in a fight. By one blow of his fists he flattened athunderbolt and kept it in his pocket, in the shape of a pancake, toshow to all his enemies, when they were about to fight him. Undoubtedlyhe had given every giant in Ireland a considerable beating, barring FinM'Coul himself. and he swore that he would never rest, night or day,winter or summer, till he would serve Fin with the same sauce, if hecould catch him. However, the short and long of it was, with reverencebe it spoken, that Fin heard Cucullin was coming to the Causeway tohave a trial of strength with him. and he was seized with a very warmand sudden fit of affection for his wife, poor woman, leading a verylonely, uncomfortable life of it in his absence. He accordingly pulledup the fir tree, as I said before, and having snedded it into awalking stick, set out on his travels to see his darling Oonagh on thetop of Knockmany, by the way.In truth, the people wondered very much why it was that Fin selectedsuch a windy spot for his dwelling house, and they even went so far asto tell him as much."What can you mane, Mr. M'Coul," said they, "by pitching your tent uponthe top of Knockmany, where you never are without a breeze, day ornight, winter or summer, and where you're often forced to take yournightcap without either going to bed or turning up your little finger.ay, an' where, besides this, there's the sorrow's own want of water?""Why," said Fin, "ever since I was the height of a round tower, I wasknown to be fond of having a good prospect of my own. and where thedickens, neighbours, could I find a better spot for a good prospectthan the top of Knockmany? As for water, I am sinking a pump, and,plase goodness, as soon as the Causeway's made, I intend to finish it."Now, this was more of Fin's philosophy. for the real state of the casewas, that he pitched upon the top of Knockmany in order that he mightbe able to see Cucullin coming towards the house. All we have to sayis, that if he wanted a spot from which to keep a sharp look out and,between ourselves, he did want it grievously barring Slieve Croob, orSlieve Donard, or its own cousin, Cullamore, he could not find a neateror more convenient situation for it in the sweet and sagacious provinceof Ulster."God save all here!" said Fin, good humouredly, on putting his honestface into his own door."Musha, Fin, avick, an' you're welcome home to your own Oonagh, youdarlin' bully." Here followed a smack that is said to have made thewaters of the lake at the bottom of the hill curl, as it were, withkindness and sympathy.Fin spent two or three happy days with Oonagh, and felt himself verycomfortable, considering the dread he had of Cucullin. This, however,grew upon him so much that his wife could not but perceive somethinglay on his mind which he kept altogether to himself. Let a woman alone,in the meantime, for ferreting or wheedling a secret out of her goodman, when she wishes. Fin was a proof of this."It's this Cucullin," said he, "that's troubling me. When the fellowgets angry, and begins to stamp, he'll shake you a whole townland. andit's well known that he can stop a thunderbolt, for he always carriesone about him in the shape of a pancake, to show to any one that mightmisdoubt it."As he spoke, he clapped his thumb in his mouth, which he always didwhen he wanted to prophesy, or to know anything that happened in hisabsence. and the wife asked him what he did it for."He's coming," said Fin. "I see him below Dungannon.""Thank goodness, dear! an' who is it, avick? Glory be to God!""That baste, Cucullin," replied Fin. "and how to manage I don't know.If I run away, I am disgraced. and I know that sooner or later I mustmeet him, for my thumb tells me so.""When will he be here?" said she."To morrow, about two o'clock," replied Fin, with a groan."Well, my bully, don't be cast down," said Oonagh. "depend on me, andmaybe I'll bring you better out of this scrape than ever you couldbring yourself, by your rule o' thumb."She then made a high smoke on the top of the hill, after which she puther finger in her mouth, and gave three whistles, and by that Cucullinknew he was invited to Cullamore for this was the way that the Irishlong ago gave a sign to all strangers and travellers, to let them knowthey were welcome to come and take share of whatever was going.In the meantime, Fin was very melancholy, and did not know what to do,or how to act at all. Cucullin was an ugly customer to meet with. and,the idea of the "cake" aforesaid flattened the very heart within him.What chance could he have, strong and brave though he was, with a manwho could, when put in a passion, walk the country into earthquakes andknock thunderbolts into pancakes? Fin knew not on what hand to turnhim. Right or left backward or forward where to go he could form noguess whatsoever."Oonagh," said he, "can you do nothing for me? Where's all yourinvention? Am I to be skivered like a rabbit before your eyes, and tohave my name disgraced for ever in the sight of all my tribe, and methe best man among them? How am I to fight this man mountain this hugecross between an earthquake and a thunderbolt? with a pancake in hispocket that was once ""Be easy, Fin," replied Oonagh. "troth, I'm ashamed of you. Keep yourtoe in your pump, will you? Talking of pancakes, maybe, we'll give himas good as any he brings with him thunderbolt or otherwise. If I don'ttreat him to as smart feeding as he's got this many a day, never trustOonagh again. Leave him to me, and do just as I bid you."This relieved Fin very much. for, after all, he had great confidence inhis wife, knowing, as he did, that she had got him out of many aquandary before. Oonagh then drew the nine woollen threads of differentcolours, which she always did to find out the best way of succeeding inanything of importance she went about. She then platted them into threeplats with three colours in each, putting one on her right arm, oneround her heart, and the third round her right ankle, for then she knewthat nothing could fail with her that she undertook.Having everything now prepared, she sent round to the neighbours andborrowed one and twenty iron griddles, which she took and kneaded intothe hearts of one and twenty cakes of bread, and these she baked on thefire in the usual way, setting them aside in the cupboard according asthey were done. She then put down a large pot of new milk, which shemade into curds and whey. Having done all this, she sat down quitecontented, waiting for his arrival on the next day about two o'clock,that being the hour at which he was expected for Fin knew as much bythe sucking of his thumb. Now this was a curious property that Fin'sthumb had. In this very thing, moreover, he was very much resembled byhis great foe, Cucullin. for it was well known that the huge strengthhe possessed all lay in the middle finger of his right hand, and that,if he happened by any mischance to lose it, he was no more, for all hisbulk, than a common man.At length, the next day, Cucullin was seen coming across the valley,and Oonagh knew that it was time to commence operations. Sheimmediately brought the cradle, and made Fin to lie down in it, andcover himself up with the clothes."You must pass for your own child," said she. "so just lie there snug,and say nothing, but be guided by me."About two o'clock, as he had been expected, Cucullin came in. "God saveall here!" said he. "is this where the great Fin M'Coul lives?""Indeed it is, honest man," replied Oonagh. "God save you kindly won'tyou be sitting?""Thank you, ma'am," says he, sitting down. "you're Mrs. M'Coul, Isuppose?""I am," said she. "and I have no reason, I hope, to be ashamed of myhusband.""No," said the other, "he has the name of being the strongest andbravest man in Ireland. but for all that, there's a man not far fromyou that's very desirous of taking a shake with him. Is he at home?""Why, then, no," she replied. "and if ever a man left his house in afury, he did. It appears that some one told him of a big basthoon ofa giant called Cucullin being down at the Causeway to look for him,and so he set out there to try if he could catch him. Troth, I hope,for the poor giant's sake, he won't meet with him, for if he does, Finwill make paste of him at once.""Well," said the other, "I am Cucullin, and I have been seeking himthese twelve months, but he always kept clear of me. and I will neverrest night or day till I lay my hands on him."At this Oonagh set up a loud laugh, of great contempt, by the way, andlooked at him as if he was only a mere handful of a man."Did you ever see Fin?" said she, changing her manner all at once."How could I?" said he. "he always took care to keep his distance.""I thought so," she replied. "I judged as much. and if you take myadvice, you poor looking creature, you'll pray night and day that youmay never see him, for I tell you it will be a black day for you whenyou do. But, in the meantime, you perceive that the wind's on the door,and as Fin himself is from home, maybe you'd be civil enough to turnthe house, for it's always what Fin does when he's here."This was a startler even to Cucullin. but he got up, however, and afterpulling the middle finger of his right hand until it cracked threetimes, he went outside, and getting his arms about the house, turned itas she had wished. When Fin saw this, he felt the sweat of fear oozingout through every pore of his skin. but Oonagh, depending upon herwoman's wit, felt not a whit daunted."Arrah, then," said she, "as you are so civil, maybe you'd do anotherobliging turn for us, as Fin's not here to do it himself. You see,after this long stretch of dry weather we've had, we feel very badlyoff for want of water. Now, Fin says there's a fine spring wellsomewhere under the rocks behind the hill here below, and it was hisintention to pull them asunder. but having heard of you, he left theplace in such a fury, that he never thought of it. Now, if you try tofind it, troth I'd feel it a kindness."She then brought Cucullin down to see the place, which was then all onesolid rock. and, after looking at it for some time, he cracked hisright middle finger nine times, and, stooping down, tore a cleft aboutfour hundred feet deep, and a quarter of a mile in length, which hassince been christened by the name of Lumford's Glen."You'll now come in," said she, "and eat a bit of such humble fare aswe can give you. Fin, even although he and you are enemies, would scornnot to treat you kindly in his own house. and, indeed, if I didn't doit even in his absence, he would not be pleased with me."She accordingly brought him in, and placing half a dozen of the cakeswe spoke of before him, together with a can or two of butter, a side ofboiled bacon, and a stack of cabbage, she desired him to helphimself for this, be it known, was long before the invention ofpotatoes. Cucullin put one of the cakes in his mouth to take a hugewhack out of it, when he made a thundering noise, something between agrowl and a yell. "Blood and fury!" he shouted. "how is this? Here aretwo of my teeth out! What kind of bread this is you gave me.""What's the matter?" said Oonagh coolly."Matter!" shouted the other again. "why, here are the two best teeth inmy head gone.""Why," said she, "that's Fin's bread the only bread he ever eats whenat home. but, indeed, I forgot to tell you that nobody can eat it buthimself, and that child in the cradle there. I thought, however, that,as you were reported to be rather a stout little fellow of your size,you might be able to manage it, and I did not wish to affront a manthat thinks himself able to fight Fin. Here's another cake maybe it'snot so hard as that."Cucullin at the moment was not only hungry, but ravenous, so heaccordingly made a fresh set at the second cake, and immediatelyanother yell was heard twice as loud as the first. "Thunder andgibbets!" he roared, "take your bread out of this, or I will not have atooth in my head. there's another pair of them gone!""Well, honest man," replied Oonagh, "if you're not able to eat thebread, say so quietly, and don't be wakening the child in the cradlethere. There, now, he's awake upon me."Fin now gave a skirl that startled the giant, as coming from such ayoungster as he was supposed to be."Mother," said he, "I'm hungry get me something to eat." Oonagh wentover, and putting into his hand a cake that had no griddle in it, Fin,whose appetite in the meantime had been sharpened by seeing eatinggoing forward, soon swallowed it. Cucullin was thunderstruck, andsecretly thanked his stars that he had the good fortune to miss meetingFin, for, as he said to himself, "I'd have no chance with a man whocould eat such bread as that, which even his son that's but in hiscradle can munch before my eyes.""I'd like to take a glimpse at the lad in the cradle," said he toOonagh. "for I can tell you that the infant who can manage thatnutriment is no joke to look at, or to feed of a scarce summer.""With all the veins of my heart," replied Oonagh. "get up, acushla, andshow this decent little man something that won't be unworthy of yourfather, Fin M'Coul."Fin, who was dressed for the occasion as much like a boy as possible,got up, and bringing Cucullin out, "Are you strong?" said he."Thunder an' ounds!" exclaimed the other, "what a voice in so small achap!""Are you strong?" said Fin again. "are you able to squeeze water out ofthat white stone?" he asked, putting one into Cucullin's hand. Thelatter squeezed and squeezed the stone, but in vain."Ah, you're a poor creature!" said Fin. "You a giant! Give me the stonehere, and when I'll show what Fin's little son can do, you may thenjudge of what my daddy himself is."Fin then took the stone, and exchanging it for the curds, he squeezedthe latter until the whey, as clear as water, oozed out in a littleshower from his hand."I'll now go in," said he, "to my cradle. for I scorn to lose my timewith any one that's not able to eat my daddy's bread, or squeeze waterout of a stone. Bedad, you had better be off out of this before hecomes back. for if he catches you, it's in flummery he'd have you intwo minutes."Cucullin, seeing what he had seen, was of the same opinion himself. hisknees knocked together with the terror of Fin's return, and heaccordingly hastened to bid Oonagh farewell, and to assure her, thatfrom that day out, he never wished to hear of, much less to see, herhusband. "I admit fairly that I'm not a match for him," said he,"strong as I am. tell him I will avoid him as I would the plague, andthat I will make myself scarce in this part of the country while Ilive."Fin, in the meantime, had gone into the cradle, where he lay veryquietly, his heart at his mouth with delight that Cucullin was about totake his departure, without discovering the tricks that had been playedoff on him."It's well for you," said Oonagh, "that he doesn't happen to be here,for it's nothing but hawk's meat he'd make of you.""I know that," says Cucullin. "divil a thing else he'd make of me. butbefore I go, will you let me feel what kind of teeth Fin's lad has gotthat can eat griddle bread like that?""With all pleasure in life," said she. "only, as they're far back inhis head, you must put your finger a good way in."Cucullin was surprised to find such a powerful set of grinders in oneso young. but he was still much more so on finding, when he took hishand from Fin's mouth, that he had left the very finger upon which hiswhole strength depended, behind him. He gave one loud groan, and felldown at once with terror and weakness. This was all Fin wanted, who nowknew that his most powerful and bitterest enemy was at his mercy. Hestarted out of the cradle, and in a few minutes the great Cucullin,that was for such a length of time the terror of him and all hisfollowers, lay a corpse before him. Thus did Fin, through the wit andinvention of Oonagh, his wife, succeed in overcoming his enemy bycunning, which he never could have done by force.