There was once a Darning needle who thought herself so fine that shebelieved she was an embroidery needle. 'Take great care to hold metight!' said the Darning needle to the Fingers who were holding her.'Don't let me fall! If I once fall on the ground I shall never be foundagain, I am so fine!''It is all right!' said the Fingers, seizing her round the waist.'Look, I am coming with my train!' said the Darning needle as she drew along thread after her. but there was no knot at the end of the thread.The Fingers were using the needle on the cook's shoe. The upper leatherwas unstitched and had to be sewn together.'This is common work!' said the Darning needle. 'I shall never getthrough it. I am breaking! I am breaking!' And in fact she did break.'Didn't I tell you so!' said the Darning needle. 'I am too fine!''Now she is good for nothing!' said the Fingers. but they had to holdher tight while the cook dropped some sealing wax on the needle andstuck it in the front of her dress.'Now I am a breast pin!' said the Darning needle. 'I always knew Ishould be promoted. When one is something, one will become something!'And she laughed to herself. you can never see when a Darning needle islaughing. Then she sat up as proudly as if she were in a State coach,and looked all round her.'May I be allowed to ask if you are gold?' she said to her neighbour,the Pin. 'You have a very nice appearance, and a peculiar head. butit is too small! You must take pains to make it grow, for it isnot everyone who has a head of sealing wax.' And so saying theDarning needle raised herself up so proudly that she fell out of thedress, right into the sink which the cook was rinsing out.'Now I am off on my travels!' said the Darning needle. 'I do hope Isha'n't get lost!' She did indeed get lost.'I am too fine for this world!' said she as she lay in the gutter. 'butI know who I am, and that is always a little satisfaction!'And the Darning needle kept her proud bearing and did not lose hergood temper.All kinds of things swam over her shavings, bits of straw, and scrapsof old newspapers.'Just look how they sail along!' said the Darning needle. 'They don'tknow what is underneath them! Here I am sticking fast! There goes ashaving thinking of nothing in the world but of itself, a mere chip!There goes a straw well, how it does twist and twirl, to be sure! Don'tthink so much about yourself, or you will be knocked against a stone.There floats a bit of newspaper. What is written on it is long agoforgotten, and yet how proud it is! I am sitting patient and quiet. Iknow who I am, and that is enough for me!'One day something thick lay near her which glittered so brightly thatthe Darning needle thought it must be a diamond. But it was a bit ofbottle glass, and because it sparkled the Darning needle spoke to it,and gave herself out as a breast pin.'No doubt you are a diamond?''Yes, something of that kind!' And each believed that the other wassomething very costly. and they both said how very proud the world mustbe of them.'I have come from a lady's work box,' said Darning needle, 'and thislady was a cook. she had five fingers on each hand. anything so proud asthese fingers I have never seen! And yet they were only there to take meout of the work box and to put me back again!''Were they of noble birth, then?' asked the bit of bottle glass.'Of noble birth!' said the Darning needle. 'no indeed, but proud! Theywere five brothers, all called ''Fingers.'' They held themselves proudlyone against the other, although they were of different sizes. Theoutside one, the Thumb, was short and fat. he was outside the rank, andhad only one bend in his back, and could only make one bow. but he saidthat if he were cut off from a man that he was no longer any use asa soldier. Dip into everything, the second finger, dipped into sweetthings as well as sour things, pointed to the sun and the moon, andguided the pen when they wrote. Longman, the third, looked at the othersover his shoulder. Goldband, the fourth, had a gold sash round hiswaist. and little Playman did nothing at all, and was the more proud.There was too much ostentation, and so I came away.''And now we are sitting and shining here!' said the bit of bottle glass.At that moment more water came into the gutter. it streamed over theedges and washed the bit of bottle glass away.'Ah! now he has been promoted!' said the Darning needle. 'I remain here.I am too fine. But that is my pride, which is a sign of respectability!'And she sat there very proudly, thinking lofty thoughts.'I really believe I must have been born a sunbeam, I am so fine! Itseems to me as if the sunbeams were always looking under the water forme. Ah, I am so fine that my own mother cannot find me! If I had my oldeye which broke off, I believe I could weep. but I can't it is not fineto weep!'One day two street urchins were playing and wading in the gutter,picking up old nails, pennies, and such things. It was rather dirtywork, but it was a great delight to them.'Oh, oh!' cried out one, as he pricked himself with the Darning needle.'he is a fine fellow though!''I am not a fellow. I am a young lady!' said the Darning needle. but noone heard. The sealing wax had gone, and she had become quite black. butblack makes one look very slim, and so she thought she was even finerthan before.'Here comes an egg shell sailing along!' said the boys, and they stuckthe Darning needle into the egg shell.'The walls white and I black what a pretty contrast it makes!' saidthe Darning needle. 'Now I can be seen to advantage! If only I am notsea sick! I should give myself up for lost!'But she was not sea sick, and did not give herself up.'It is a good thing to be steeled against sea sickness. here one hasindeed an advantage over man! Now my qualms are over. The finer one isthe more one can beat.''Crack!' said the egg shell as a wagon wheel went over it.'Oh! how it presses!' said the Darning needle. 'I shall indeed besea sick now. I am breaking!' But she did not break, although thewagon wheel went over her. she lay there at full length, and there shemay lie.A TALE OF THE TONTLAWALDLong, long ago there stood in the midst of a country covered with lakesa vast stretch of moorland called the Tontlawald, on which no man everdared set foot. From time to time a few bold spirits had been drawn bycuriosity to its borders, and on their return had reported that they hadcaught a glimpse of a ruined house in a grove of thick trees, and roundabout it were a crowd of beings resembling men, swarming over the grasslike bees. The men were as dirty and ragged as gipsies, and there werebesides a quantity of old women and half naked children.One night a peasant who was returning home from a feast wandered alittle farther into the Tontlawald, and came back with the same story. Acountless number of women and children were gathered round a huge fire,and some were seated on the ground, while others danced strange danceson the smooth grass. One old crone had a broad iron ladle in her hand,with which every now and then she stirred the fire, but the moment shetouched the glowing ashes the children rushed away, shrieking like nightowls, and it was a long while before they ventured to steal back. Andbesides all this there had once or twice been seen a little old man witha long beard creeping out of the forest, carrying a sack bigger thanhimself. The women and children ran by his side, weeping and trying todrag the sack from off his back, but he shook them off, and went onhis way. There was also a tale of a magnificent black cat as large as afoal, but men could not believe all the wonders told by the peasant,and it was difficult to make out what was true and what was false in hisstory. However, the fact remained that strange things did happen there,and the King of Sweden, to whom this part of the country belonged, morethan once gave orders to cut down the haunted wood, but there was no onewith courage enough to obey his commands. At length one man, bolder thanthe rest, struck his axe into a tree, but his blow was followed bya stream of blood and shrieks as of a human creature in pain. Theterrified woodcutter fled as fast as his legs would carry him, and afterthat neither orders nor threats would drive anybody to the enchantedmoor.A few miles from the Tontlawald was a large village, where dwelt apeasant who had recently married a young wife. As not uncommonly happensin such cases, she turned the whole house upside down, and the twoquarrelled and fought all day long.By his first wife the peasant had a daughter called Elsa, a good quietgirl, who only wanted to live in peace, but this her stepmother wouldnot allow. She beat and cuffed the poor child from morning till night,but as the stepmother had the whip hand of her husband there was noremedy.For two years Elsa suffered all this ill treatment, when one dayshe went out with the other village children to pluck strawberries.Carelessly they wandered on, till at last they reached the edge of theTontlawald, where the finest strawberries grew, making the grass redwith their colour. The children flung themselves down on the ground,and, after eating as many as they wanted, began to pile up theirbaskets, when suddenly a cry arose from one of the older boys:'Run, run as fast as you can! We are in the Tontlawald!'Quicker than lightning they sprang to their feet, and rushed madly away,all except Elsa, who had strayed farther than the rest, and had found abed of the finest strawberries right under the trees. Like the others,she heard the boy's cry, but could not make up her mind to leave thestrawberries.'After all, what does it matter?' thought she. 'The dwellers in theTontlawald cannot be worse than my stepmother'. and looking up she sawa little black dog with a silver bell on its neck come barking towardsher, followed by a maiden clad all in silk.'Be quiet,' said she. then turning to Elsa she added: 'I am so glad youdid not run away with the other children. Stay here with me and be myfriend, and we will play delightful games together, and every day wewill go and gather strawberries. Nobody will dare to beat you if I tellthem not. Come, let us go to my mother'. and taking Elsa's hand she ledher deeper into the wood, the little black dog jumping up beside themand barking with pleasure.Oh! what wonders and splendours unfolded themselves before Elsa'sastonished eyes! She thought she really must be in Heaven. Fruit treesand bushes loaded with fruit stood before them, while birds gayer thanthe brightest butterfly sat in their branches and filled the air withtheir song. And the birds were not shy, but let the girls take them intheir hands, and stroke their gold and silver feathers. In the centreof the garden was the dwelling house, shining with glass and preciousstones, and in the doorway sat a woman in rich garments, who turned toElsa's companion and asked:'What sort of a guest are you bringing to me?''I found her alone in the wood,' replied her daughter, 'and brought herback with me for a companion. You will let her stay?'The mother laughed, but said nothing, only she looked Elsa up and downsharply. Then she told the girl to come near, and stroked her cheeks andspoke kindly to her, asking if her parents were alive, and if she reallywould like to stay with them. Elsa stooped and kissed her hand, then,kneeling down, buried her face in the woman's lap, and sobbed out:'My mother has lain for many years under the ground. My father is stillalive, but I am nothing to him, and my stepmother beats me all the daylong. I can do nothing right, so let me, I pray you, stay with you. Iwill look after the flocks or do any work you tell me. I will obey yourlightest word. only do not, I entreat you, send me back to her. She willhalf kill me for not having come back with the other children.'And the woman smiled and answered, 'Well, we will see what we can dowith you,' and, rising, went into the house.Then the daughter said to Elsa, 'Fear nothing, my mother will be yourfriend. I saw by the way she looked that she would grant your requestwhen she had thought over it,' and, telling Elsa to wait, she enteredthe house to seek her mother. Elsa meanwhile was tossed about betweenhope and fear, and felt as if the girl would never come.At last Elsa saw her crossing the grass with a box in her hand.'My mother says we may play together to day, as she wants to make up hermind what to do about you. But I hope you will stay here always, as Ican't bear you to go away. Have you ever been on the sea?''The sea?' asked Elsa, staring. 'what is that? I've never heard of sucha thing!''Oh, I'll soon show you,' answered the girl, taking the lid from thebox, and at the very bottom lay a scrap of a cloak, a mussel shell, andtwo fish scales. Two drops of water were glistening on the cloak, andthese the girl shook on the ground. In an instant the garden and lawnand everything else had vanished utterly, as if the earth had openedand swallowed them up, and as far as the eye could reach you could seenothing but water, which seemed at last to touch heaven itself. Onlyunder their feet was a tiny dry spot. Then the girl placed the musselshell on the water and took the fish scales in her hand. The musselshell grew bigger and bigger, and turned into a pretty little boat,which would have held a dozen children. The girls stepped in, Elsa verycautiously, for which she was much laughed at by her friend, who usedthe fish scales for a rudder. The waves rocked the girls softly, as ifthey were lying in a cradle, and they floated on till they met otherboats filled with men, singing and making merry.'We must sing you a song in return,' said the girl, but as Elsa did notknow any songs, she had to sing by herself. Elsa could not understandany of the men's songs, but one word, she noticed, came over and overagain, and that was 'Kisika.' Elsa asked what it meant, and the girlreplied that it was her name.It was all so pleasant that they might have stayed there for ever hadnot a voice cried out to them, 'Children, it is time for you to comehome!'So Kisika took the little box out of her pocket, with the piece ofcloth lying in it, and dipped the cloth in the water, and lo! theywere standing close to a splendid house in the middle of the garden.Everything round them was dry and firm, and there was no water anywhere.The mussel shell and the fish scales were put back in the box, and thegirls went in.They entered a large hall, where four and twenty richly dressed womenwere sitting round a table, looking as if they were about to attend awedding. At the head of the table sat the lady of the house in a goldenchair.Elsa did not know which way to look, for everything that met her eyeswas more beautiful than she could have dreamed possible. But she satdown with the rest, and ate some delicious fruit, and thought she mustbe in heaven. The guests talked softly, but their speech was strangeto Elsa, and she understood nothing of what was said. Then the hostessturned round and whispered something to a maid behind her chair, and themaid left the hall, and when she came back she brought a little old manwith her, who had a beard longer than himself. He bowed low to the ladyand then stood quietly near the door.'Do you see this girl?' said the lady of the house, pointing to Elsa. 'Iwish to adopt her for my daughter. Make me a copy of her, which we cansend to her native village instead of herself.'The old man looked Elsa all up and down, as if he was taking hermeasure, bowed again to the lady, and left the hall. After dinner thelady said kindly to Elsa, 'Kisika has begged me to let you stay withher, and you have told her you would like to live here. Is that so?'At these words Elsa fell on her knees, and kissed the lady's hands andfeet in gratitude for her escape from her cruel stepmother. but herhostess raised her from the ground and patted her head, saying, 'Allwill go well as long as you are a good, obedient child, and I will takecare of you and see that you want for nothing till you are grown up andcan look after yourself. My waiting maid, who teaches Kisika all sortsof fine handiwork, shall teach you too.'Not long after the old man came back with a mould full of clay on hisshoulders, and a little covered basket in his left hand. He put down hismould and his basket on the ground, took up a handful of clay, and madea doll as large as life. When it was finished he bored a hole in thedoll's breast and put a bit of bread inside. then, drawing a snake outof the basket, forced it to enter the hollow body.'Now,' he said to the lady, 'all we want is a drop of the maiden'sblood.'When she heard this Elsa grew white with horror, for she thought she wasselling her soul to the evil one.'Do not be afraid!' the lady hastened to say. 'we do not want your bloodfor any bad purpose, but rather to give you freedom and happiness.'Then she took a tiny golden needle, pricked Elsa in the arm, and gavethe needle to the old man, who stuck it into the heart of the doll. Whenthis was done he placed the figure in the basket, promising that thenext day they should all see what a beautiful piece of work he hadfinished.When Elsa awoke the next morning in her silken bed, with its soft whitepillows, she saw a beautiful dress lying over the back of a chair, readyfor her to put on. A maid came in to comb out her long hair, and broughtthe finest linen for her use. but nothing gave Elsa so much joy as thelittle pair of embroidered shoes that she held in her hand, for the girlhad hitherto been forced to run about barefoot by her cruel stepmother.In her excitement she never gave a thought to the rough clothes she hadworn the day before, which had disappeared as if by magic during thenight. Who could have taken them? Well, she was to know that by and by.But WE can guess that the doll had been dressed in them, which was to goback to the village in her stead. By the time the sun rose the doll hadattained her full size, and no one could have told one girl fromthe other. Elsa started back when she met herself as she looked onlyyesterday.'You must not be frightened,' said the lady, when she noticed herterror. 'this clay figure can do you no harm. It is for your stepmother,that she may beat it instead of you. Let her flog it as hard as shewill, it can never feel any pain. And if the wicked woman does not comeone day to a better mind your double will be able at last to give herthe punishment she deserves.'From this moment Elsa's life was that of the ordinary happy child, whohas been rocked to sleep in her babyhood in a lovely golden cradle. Shehad no cares or troubles of any sort, and every day her tasks becameeasier, and the years that had gone before seemed more and more likea bad dream. But the happier she grew the deeper was her wonder ateverything around her, and the more firmly she was persuaded that somegreat unknown power must be at the bottom of it all.In the courtyard stood a huge granite block about twenty steps from thehouse, and when meal times came round the old man with the long beardwent to the block, drew out a small silver staff, and struck the stonewith it three times, so that the sound could be heard a long way off.At the third blow, out sprang a large golden cock, and stood upon thestone. Whenever he crowed and flapped his wings the rock opened andsomething came out of it. First a long table covered with dishes readylaid for the number of persons who would be seated round it, and thisflew into the house all by itself.When the cock crowed for the second time, a number of chairs appeared,and flew after the table. then wine, apples, and other fruit, allwithout trouble to anybody. After everybody had had enough, the oldman struck the rock again. The golden cock crowed afresh, and back wentdishes, table, chairs, and plates into the middle of the block.When, however, it came to the turn of the thirteenth dish, which nobodyever wanted to eat, a huge black cat ran up, and stood on the rock closeto the cock, while the dish was on his other side.There they all remained, till they were joined by the old man.He picked up the dish in one hand, tucked the cat under his arm, toldthe cock to get on his shoulder, and all four vanished into the rock.And this wonderful stone contained not only food, but clothes andeverything you could possibly want in the house.At first a language was often spoken at meals which was strange toElsa, but by the help of the lady and her daughter she began slowlyto understand it, though it was years before she was able to speak itherself.One day she asked Kisika why the thirteenth dish came daily to the tableand was sent daily away untouched, but Kisika knew no more about itthan she did. The girl must, however, have told her mother what Elsa hadsaid, for a few days later she spoke to Elsa seriously:'Do not worry yourself with useless wondering. You wish to know whywe never eat of the thirteenth dish? That, dear child, is the dish ofhidden blessings, and we cannot taste of it without bringing our happylife here to an end. And the world would be a great deal better ifmen, in their greed, did not seek to snatch every thing for themselves,instead of leaving something as a thankoffering to the giver of theblessings. Greed is man's worst fault.'The years passed like the wind for Elsa, and she grew into a lovelywoman, with a knowledge of many things that she would never have learnedin her native village. but Kisika was still the same young girl that shehad been on the day of her first meeting with Elsa. Each morning theyboth worked for an hour at reading and writing, as they had always done,and Elsa was anxious to learn all she could, but Kisika much preferredchildish games to anything else. If the humour seized her, she wouldfling aside her tasks, take her treasure box, and go off to play in thesea, where no harm ever came to her.'What a pity,' she would often say to Elsa, 'that you have grown so big,you cannot play with me any more.'Nine years slipped away in this manner, when one day the lady calledElsa into her room. Elsa was surprised at the summons, for it wasunusual, and her heart sank, for she feared some evil threatened her. Asshe crossed the threshold, she saw that the lady's cheeks were flushed,and her eyes full of tears, which she dried hastily, as if she wouldconceal them from the girl. 'Dearest child,' she began, 'the time hascome when we must part.''Part?' cried Elsa, burying her head in the lady's lap. 'No, dear lady,that can never be till death parts us. You once opened your arms to me.you cannot thrust me away now.''Ah, be quiet, child,' replied the lady. 'you do not know what I woulddo to make you happy. Now you are a woman, and I have no right to keepyou here. You must return to the world of men, where joy awaits you.''Dear lady,' entreated Elsa again. 'Do not, I beseech you, send me fromyou. I want no other happiness but to live and die beside you. Make meyour waiting maid, or set me to any work you choose, but do not cast meforth into the world. It would have been better if you had left me withmy stepmother, than first to have brought me to heaven and then send meback to a worse place.''Do not talk like that, dear child,' replied the lady. 'you do not knowall that must be done to secure your happiness, however much it costsme. But it has to be. You are only a common mortal, who will have to dieone day, and you cannot stay here any longer. Though we have thebodies of men, we are not men at all, though it is not easy for you tounderstand why. Some day or other you will find a husband who hasbeen made expressly for you, and will live happily with him till deathseparates you. It will be very hard for me to part from you, but it hasto be, and you must make up your mind to it.' Then she drew her goldencomb gently through Elsa's hair, and bade her go to bed. but littlesleep had the poor girl! Life seemed to stretch before her like a darkstarless night.Now let us look back a moment, and see what had been going on in Elsa'snative village all these years, and how her double had fared. It isa well known fact that a bad woman seldom becomes better as she growsolder, and Elsa's stepmother was no exception to the rule. but as thefigure that had taken the girl's place could feel no pain, the blowsthat were showered on her night and day made no difference. If thefather ever tried to come to his daughter's help, his wife turned uponhim, and things were rather worse than before.One day the stepmother had given the girl a frightful beating, and thenthreatened to kill her outright. Mad with rage, she seized the figure bythe throat with both hands, when out came a black snake from her mouthand stung the woman's tongue, and she fell dead without a sound. Atnight, when the husband came home, he found his wife lying dead upon theground, her body all swollen and disfigured, but the girl was nowhereto be seen. His screams brought the neighbours from their cottages, butthey were unable to explain how it had all come about. It was true, theysaid, that about mid day they had heard a great noise, but as that wasa matter of daily occurrence they did not think much of it. The rest ofthe day all was still, but no one had seen anything of the daughter.The body of the dead woman was then prepared for burial, and her tiredhusband went to bed, rejoicing in his heart that he had been deliveredfrom the firebrand who had made his home unpleasant. On the table hesaw a slice of bread lying, and, being hungry, he ate it before going tosleep.In the morning he too was found dead, and as swollen as his wife, forthe bread had been placed in the body of the figure by the old man whomade it. A few days later he was placed in the grave beside his wife,but nothing more was ever heard of their daughter.All night long after her talk with the lady Elsa had wept and wailed herhard fate in being cast out from her home which she loved.Next morning, when she got up, the lady placed a gold seal ring on herfinger, strung a little golden box on a ribbon, and placed it round herneck. then she called the old man, and, forcing back her tears, tookleave of Elsa. The girl tried to speak, but before she could sob out herthanks the old man had touched her softly on the head three times withhis silver staff. In an instant Elsa knew that she was turning intoa bird: wings sprang from beneath her arms. her feet were the feet ofeagles, with long claws. her nose curved itself into a sharp beak, andfeathers covered her body. Then she soared high in the air, and floatedup towards the clouds, as if she had really been hatched an eagle.For several days she flew steadily south, resting from time to time whenher wings grew tired, for hunger she never felt. And so it happenedthat one day she was flying over a dense forest, and below hounds werebarking fiercely, because, not having wings themselves, she was out oftheir reach. Suddenly a sharp pain quivered through her body, and shefell to the ground, pierced by an arrow.When Elsa recovered her senses, she found herself lying under a bush inher own proper form. What had befallen her, and how she got there, laybehind her like a bad dream.As she was wondering what she should do next the king's son came ridingby, and, seeing Elsa, sprang from his horse, and took her by the hand,sawing, 'Ah! it was a happy chance that brought me here this morning.Every night, for half a year, have I dreamed, dear lady, that I shouldone day find you in this wood. And although I have passed through ithundreds of times in vain, I have never given up hope. To day I wasgoing in search of a large eagle that I had shot, and instead of theeagle I have found you.' Then he took Elsa on his horse, and rode withher to the town, where the old king received her graciously.A few days later the wedding took place, and as Elsa was arranging theveil upon her hair fifty carts arrived laden with beautiful things whichthe lady of the Tontlawald had sent to Elsa. And after the king's deathElsa became queen, and when she was old she told this story. But thatwas the last that was ever heard of the Tontlawald.(From Ehstnische Marchen.)