Once upon a time there was a Raja who had two sons, and after theirfather's death they divided the kingdom between them. The two brotherswere inveterate gamblers and spent their time playing cards with eachother. For a long time fortune was equal, but one day it turned againstthe elder brother, and he lost and lost until his money and his jewelry,his horses and his elephants and everything that he had, had been won byhis younger brother. Then in desperation he staked his share in thekingdom, and that too he lost.Then the younger brother sent drummers through the city to proclaim thatthe whole kingdom was his. The shame of this was more than the elderprince could bear, so he resolved to quit the country, and he told hiswife of his intention and bade her stay behind.But his faithful wife refused to be parted from him. She vowed that he hadmarried her not for one day nor for two, but for good and all, and thatwhere he went, there she would go, and whatever troubles he met, she wouldshare.So he allowed her to come with him, and the two set off to foreign parts.After some time their path led them through an extensive jungle, and aftertraveling through it for two days they at last lost their way completely.Their food gave out. they were faint with starvation and torn with briars.The prince urged his wife to return, but she would not hear of it, so theypushed on, supporting life on jungle fruits. Sometimes the prince would gofar ahead, for his faithful wife could only travel slowly, and then hewould return and wait for her.At last he got tired of leading her on and made up his mind to abandonher. At night they lay down at the foot of a tree, and the prince thought,"If wild animals would come and eat us, it would be the best that couldhappen. I cannot bear to see my wife suffer any more. Although her fleshis torn with thorns, she will not leave me. I will leave her here. maywild beasts kill both her and me, but I cannot see her die before myeyes."So thinking he got up quietly and went off as quickly as he could.When the princess woke and found that she had been abandoned, she began toweep, and wept from dawn to noon without ceasing. At noon a being in theguise of an old woman appeared and asked her why she wept, and comfortedher and promised to lead her out of the wood and told her that Chando (asun god) had had compassion on her and would allow her to find her husbandagain if they both lived.So saying, the old woman led the princess from the forest and showed herthe way to a great city where a Raja lived. The princess went begging herway through the city to the Raja's palace, and there they engaged her as aservant.Now her husband had also escaped from the jungle and sought employment asa laborer, but no one would give him work for more than a day or two, andat last his search for work brought him to the city in which the princesswas. and there he was engaged as a groom in the palace stables. The princehad changed his name, and he had no chance of knowing that his wife was inthe palace, because she was confined to the women's apartments. So someyears passed without their having news of each other.At last one day the princess happened to go onto the roof and looking downat the stables saw and thought she recognized her husband. Then she leanedover and listened till she heard his voice, and at that she was sure thatit was he, so she hastened to the Raja and begged to be allowed to meether husband, and the Raja sent to call the syce (a servant who attends tohorses) with the name which the princess had given, but no one came, forthe prince would not reveal himself.Then the princess told their story, and how her husband had gambled awayhis half of the kingdom. The Raja ordered anyone with such a history tocome forward, as his wife was in the palace. but the prince did not revealhimself.Then the princess said, "Let all the syces cook rice and bring me a bit ofeach man's cooking to taste."They did so, and when she tasted the rice cooked by her husband, she atonce said that it was his. Her husband was unable to deny it and admittedeverything. Then they took him away from his work in the stables and lethim live with his wife.After a time the Raja wrote to the younger brother asking whether he wouldrestore the half of the kingdom which he had won. and the younger brotheranswered that he would gladly do so, if his brother would sign anagreement never to gamble anymore. It was with this object in view and toteach him the folly of his ways that he had dispossessed him.The elder brother gladly gave the required promise and returned to hiskingdom with his faithful wife, and lived happily ever afterwards.