There was not in the whole city of Bagdad a greedier man than AbiFressah, and you may be sure he was not popular. It was not that hewas rich and refused to give heed to the needs of the poor. He was, intruth, a merchant in moderately affluent circumstances, and he did notwithhold charity from the deserving. but he was a man of enormousappetite and did not scruple to descend to trickery to secure aninvitation to a meal.So skilful, indeed, did he become in wheedling these favors from hisfriends and from those with whom he traded, that he devoted the majorportion of each day to feeding and left himself little time to attendto his business affairs. Moreover, he grew unpleasantly fat. His facewas red and bloated with much wine drinking. He was not a nice personto look upon at all, and those who had aforetime been his friends cameto the conclusion that the day had arrived when he should be taught asevere lesson.(: He sprang from his stool, spluttering andcursing. (_Page 110_).)And so it came to pass that when Abi Fressah was standing in thebazaar at the hour of the mid day meal and eagerly scanning the crowdto discover some acquaintance whom he could induce to ask him todinner, he saw Ben Maslia, one of the wealthiest and most generous ofmen in Bagdad."Ah, my excellent friend," Abi cried, warmly greeting Ben Maslia,"'tis almost an eternity since my unworthy eyes were cast upon thypleasant countenance. Peace be on thee and thine unto the end ofdays.""Also to thee," returned Ben Maslia."And whence comest thou? And whither goest thou, oh most hospitablefriend?" Abi Fressah asked these questions hastily, his beady eyessearching the other's face hungrily for a sign upon which he couldseize to invite himself to a meal. "It is the hour of the mid daymeal. Goest thou, perchance, to thy pious home?""Thither go I," said Ben Maslia."My path lies in the same direction," said Abi Fressah. "It will bepleasant to walk together. Come," and he grasped Ben Maslia by thearm."It is kind of thee, friend Abi Fressah," rejoined the other, "but Ihave built me a new abode on the other side of the city."Abi Fressah's face fell for a moment, but he was clever enough to takeadvantage of the news."A new dwelling erected by the wealthy Ben Maslia," he said,winningly, "must be a building of magnificence, worth seeing.""Indeed it is as thou sayest," cried the other enthusiastically, andforthwith he launched into a lavish description of his residence.Abi Fressah grew impatient when Ben Maslia began to describe each roomin detail, his hunger increased when, in glowing words, his friendpainted the gorgeous dining room, and his mouth watered at theinformation that the cellars were stocked with a thousand bottles ofwine."Blessings on thee and thy wine cellar and thy house," murmured AbiFressah, when he could get in a word. "I have no business ofconsequence to transact this afternoon. I could not pay thee a bettercompliment than to spend it examining thy treasures.""Of a certainty thou couldst not," assented the other, to his greatglee."Then let us proceed," said Abi Fressah.So they set out, Ben Maslia still continuing his glowing account ofhis wonderful house."It must be as spacious as a palace," put in Abi Fressah."Thou speakest truth," agreed Ben Maslia. "I will illustrate to theethe vast expanse of my new residence."He stopped in his walk, measured one hundred paces in the street, andintimated that this represented the width of the central courtyard.Abi Fressah was overwhelmed with surprise, but he was growingmomentarily hungrier, and it was with difficulty he could restrain hisimpatience."Yes, yes," he said, "I would fain gaze upon the outer door of thydwelling.""Such an outer door," said Ben Maslia, "hast thou never seen. Itswidth...." and again he began to measure the street to indicate itsdimensions."And further," he added, calmly, either failing to notice, ordeliberately overlooking Abi Fressah's growing distress, "its shapeand design are...!" and he dragged the other through several streetsuntil he found a door to which he could point as being not altogetherunlike his own."But I weary thee," he said, suddenly, as if regretful of the time hehad wasted."Nay, nay, not at all," Abi Fressah assured him, although he wasinwardly fuming at the delay. "Thy descriptions delight meimmeasurably. Thou hast not yet unfolded to me the wonders of thydining room."Thereupon Ben Maslia took up the tale of the dining room and itsfurniture, and he dragged his companion half a mile out of their pathto show him the furniture emporium where he had purchased the tablesand the couches. Then he retraced his steps to point out a buildingfrom which he had borrowed certain ideas of decoration.Abi Fressah's fat body was unused to such exertion. He perspiredfreely, his legs tottered beneath him, and his tongue was parched. Hewas really very uncomfortable, and the pangs of hunger from which hesuffered were not lessened when Ben Maslia stopped outside arestaurant to speak to a friend who was just going in.The conversation was prolonged, and all the time Abi Fressah's nosewas tickled by the smell of the cooking. He endured agonies,especially when the friend invited Ben Maslia to dine with him, andBen Maslia, after a few moment's hesitation, firmly declined."I must apologize to thee for this delay," said Ben Maslia, when atlength he left his friend, "but the matter was urgent. I will make upto thee by the magnificence of the feast."Abi Fressah thanked him cordially for his consideration, but his painwas intense when Ben Maslia insisted on giving him fullest particularsof all the dishes he would enjoy."Yes, yes," Abi kept saying, but Ben Maslia stayed his interruptions."Thy dwelling is far from the center of the city," Abi Fressah managedto say at last."That is a virtue," commented Ben Maslia, and he followed it up withthe advice given to him by a renowned physician that a house washealthiest when it stood alone, away from the busy haunts of men. Toall this and more, Abi Fressah was compelled to listen. His whole fatbody ached with weariness, he was tortured by a raging thirst, and hefancied he felt himself growing thinner so fearfully hungry was he.The sun was sinking when at last they reached the house, and AbiFressah was afraid for a moment that his host would enlarge upon itsarchitecture. To his relief, however, they entered straightway, andBen Maslia said to him, "Thou must be fatigued after thy walk. Restawhile."Abi Fressah was truly grateful, and taking off his shoes he stretchedhimself on a comfortable couch. He dozed for a while, but was awakenedby the noise of clattering dishes and the smell of savory cooking. Healmost forgot his unpleasant afternoon in the prospect of the comingfeast, but Ben Maslia came not. Abi Fressah soon felt angry. He couldnot restrain himself from banging a big brass gong to summon aservant. But although he banged several times, no servant answered thecall. Abi Fressah nearly shed tears in his despair.Suddenly Ben Maslia appeared before him."I thought I would give thee ample rest," he said suavely. "Come, wemust perform our ablutions."Abi Fressah would have preferred to have dispensed with this ceremony,but he could not offend his host by declining to conform to the customof the period. Ben Maslia led the way to the bath chamber, and therethey spent quite an hour. Then, thoroughly refreshed, the host said,"Now I will show thee the wonders and beauties of my domain."Abi Fressah was almost stupified with hunger, but he had to permithimself to be led through each room and to hear again the praises thathad already been poured into his ears all the afternoon. Only thesmell of the cooking fortified his spirit and enabled him to undergothe ordeal. He seemed to wake up from a stupor when his host opened adoor and exclaimed, "This is the feasting chamber."A scene of splendor burst upon the eyes of Abi Fressah. He rubbed hishands in glee and was ready to forget and forgive the discomforts ofthe past few hours. The dining room presented a magnificentappearance, with its gorgeous hangings, its many lamps, and its marblefloor. But these things Abi Fressah scarcely noted. His gaze waspromptly directed on the table.It was spread with the most sumptuous repast that ever he had seen.There were dishes upon dishes of tasty sweetmeats, huge platters ofluscious fruits, many bottles of wine, and covered bowls from whicharose the most appetizing aroma. Abi Fressah's mouth began to twitchand his eyes glowed. He moved forward to a seat."Good friend," said his host, "let me first introduce to your noticemy staff of servants."He clapped his hands, and immediately, in quite startling fashion, adozen servants stepped from behind the hangings which had hidden themand bowed before their master. With a dozen attendants to wait uponhim, Abi Fressah saw that he was going to enjoy a meal worthy of theoccasion. He looked upon the slaves with satisfaction."Note, my worthy Abi Fressah," said Ben Maslia, "that this is noordinary retinue of servants. Each one comes from a different part ofthe known world. Rosh, the big man there, head of them all, is theonly native of Bagdad. He has an interesting history. He has been inmy service since his birth. His father was likewise in the service ofmy sainted father, and his grandfather.... But let that suffice. Iwould not imprison thy appetite longer. Sheni that is the secondservant, the big black Nubian there bring hither the first dish."Sheni took up one of the dishes from the table and placed himself bythe side of his master."Stands he not well?" asked Ben Maslia, in admiring tones. "He is adescendant of kings. In ancient days his ancestors sat on a throne andruled over a huge territory beyond the deserts of Africa. I obtainedhim during my journey in that country. And on that occasion Idiscovered this beautiful rug in a shop in Cairo."Saying which, Ben Maslia rose from his seat and fingered lovingly oneof the hangings of the room. Abi Fressah did not rise. He was tryingto keep his temper. The dish which Sheni held so tantalizingly underhis very nose made him mad with hunger and desire.But Ben Maslia took no heed. He began to dilate upon the virtues ofanother piece of tapestry."This," he said, "I bought in the famous bazaar of Damascus. It ishundreds of years old. And in that city, too, I became possessed of mythird servant, Shelishi there, a true born son of the Holy Land andthe keeper of my camels. Our meeting was an adventure...."Abi Fressah was not listening. This was beyond endurance. He felt thatsoon he would collapse in a faint on the floor. And still Ben Masliadroned on. There was a servant from China and also a cunningly wroughtvase from that land. a brown page boy in a red turban from India fromwhich land his host had also brought the lamp standing in the centerof the table and some of the flowers which adorned the room."You would not guess," he was saying, "that many of these blooms arenot natural. They are artificial but mixed so skilfully with the realthat even experts would be deluded."By this time Abi Fressah was beyond the power of speech. Two or threetimes, he tried to speak but could not. He was really too weak. Neverin his life before had he been so hungry, so tortured. It was sometime, however, before Ben Maslia noticed his plight."Art thou ill?" he exclaimed. "That grieves me. But, fortunately, Ihave in the house an experienced apothecary who can apply leeches andrelieve thee of foul blood.""No, no," pleaded the unhappy Abi Fressah, finding his tongue at thisdismal prospect."Perchance a glass of rare cordial will revive thee," said Ben Maslia,taking one of the bottles from the table.Abi Fressah managed to gasp the word "Yes," and Rosh held a gobletinto which Ben Maslia poured a rich, red fluid."Drink this," he said kindly, holding the cup to his guest's lip."At last," thought Abi Fressah, as he opened his mouth.The next moment he sprang from his stool with astonishing agility,spluttering and cursing. The liquid was bitter in the extreme, thetaste it left in his mouth most horrid."Now I know I have been hoodwinked," he screamed in rage, and hedashed toward the outer door."Stay, stay what ails thee?" cried Ben Maslia."Stop, stop," echoed the servants, as Abi Fressah commenced to run.The cry was taken up in the street by those who saw a fat man pantingalong in the darkness, pursued by a number of servants."Stop thief!" was the cry of one man in his excitement. The townguards heard, and without any ado they seized Abi Fressah and hauledhim off to the jail. In vain he begged for mercy and struggled forfreedom."If thou wilt not behave, we shall use force," the guards said, andthey beat him with staves.At the jail, Abi Fressah was flung into a cell, and there, on a bed ofstraw on the ground, he spent a horrible, sleepless night. He ached inevery bone in his body, he was bruised all over, and his hunger wassuch that he felt he had never eaten in his life. His reflections weresad, as you may well imagine, and they led him to a vow that neveragain would he seek the hospitality of his friends. He realized atlast that he had made himself obnoxious and had been cleverly anddeservedly well punished.Even yet his sufferings were not at an end, for next morning, when hewas released and sent for his physician, the latter prescribed a dietof gruel and barley water for a whole week!(: He found a beautiful youth, clad in a deer skin,lying on the ground. (_Page 115_).)