Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge nearEnniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son.so she used to fix him in the ash hole, near the fire, and pile the warmashes about him. and, accordingly, as he grew up, she sunk the pitdeeper. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat skin, and fastenedit round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down thestreet. So says she to him next morning, "Tom, you thief, you never doneany good yet, and six foot high, and past nineteen: take that rope andbring me a _bresna_ from the wood." "Never say't twice, mother," saysTom. "here goes."When he had it gathered and tied, what should come up but a big_joiant_, nine foot high, and made a lick of a club at him. Well becomeTom, he jumped a one side and picked up a ram pike. and the first crackhe gave the big fellow he made him kiss the clod. "If you have e'er aprayer," says Tom, "now's the time to say it, before I make _brishe_ ofyou." "I have no prayers," says the giant, "but if you spare my lifeI'll give you that club. and as long as you keep from sin you'll winevery battle you ever fight with it."Tom made no bones about letting him off. and as soon as he got the clubin his hands he sat down on the bresna and gave it a tap with thekippeen, and says, "Bresna, I had a great trouble gathering you, and runthe risk of my life for you. the least you can do is to carry me home."And, sure enough, the wind of the word was all it wanted. It went offthrough the wood, groaning and cracking till it came to the widow'sdoor.Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pickmore. and this time he had to fight with a giant with two heads on him.Tom had a little more trouble with him that's all. and the prayers _he_said was to give Tom a fife that nobody could help dancing when he wasplaying it. _Begonies_, he made the big faggot dance home, with himselfsitting on it. Well, if you were to count all the steps from this toDublin, dickens a bit you'd ever arrive there. The next giant was abeautiful boy with three heads on him. He had neither prayers norcatechism no more _nor_ the others. and so he gave Tom a bottle of greenointment that wouldn't let you be burned, nor scalded, nor wounded. "Andnow," says he, "there's no more of us. You may come and gather stickshere till little _Lunacy Day_ in harvest without giant or fairy man todisturb you."Well, now, Tom was prouder nor ten paycocks, and used to take a walkdown street in the heel of the evening. but some of the little boys hadno more manners nor if they were Dublin jackeens, and put out theirtongues at Tom's club and Tom's goat skin. He didn't like that at all,and it would be mean to give one of them a clout. At last, what shouldcome through the town but a kind of bellman, only it's a big bugle hehad, and a huntsman's cap on his head, and a kind of painted shirt. Sothis he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him bugleman,maybe proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholythat she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father wouldgrant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times."That's the very thing for me to try," says Tom. and so, without burningany more daylight, he kissed his mother, curled his club at the littleboys, and he set off along the yalla highroad to the town of Dublin.At last Tom came to one of the city gates, and the guards laughed andcursed at him instead of letting him through. Tom stood it all for alittle time, but at last one of them out of fun, as he said drove his_bagnet_ half an inch or so into his side. Tom did nothing but take thefellow by the scruff of his neck and the waistband of his corduroys andfling him into the canal. Some ran to pull the fellow out, and others tolet manners into the vulgarian with their swords and daggers. but a tapfrom his club sent them headlong into the moat or down on the stones,and they were soon begging him to stay his hands.So at last one of them was glad enough to show Tom the way to the palaceyard. and there was the King and the Queen, and the princess in agallery, looking at all sorts of wrestling and sword playing, and_rinka fadhas_ (long dances) and mumming, all to please the princess.but not a smile came over her handsome face.Well, they all stopped when they seen the young giant, with his boy'sface and long black hair, and his short curly beard for his poor mothercouldn't afford to buy _razhurs_ and his great strong arms and barelegs, and no covering but the goat skin that reached from his waist tohis knees. But an envious wizened _basthard_ of a fellow, with a redhead, that wished to be married to the princess, and didn't like how sheopened her eyes at Tom, came forward, and asked his business verysnappishly. "My business," says Tom, says he, "is to make the beautifulprincess, God bless her, laugh three times." "Do you see all them merryfellows and skilful swordsmen," says the other, "that could eat you upwith a grain of salt, and not a mother's soul of 'em ever got a laughfrom her these seven years?" So the fellows gathered round Tom, and thebad man aggravated him till he told them he didn't care a pinch of snufffor the whole bilin' of 'em. let 'em come on, six at a time, and trywhat they could do. The King, that was too far off to hear what theywere saying, asked what did the stranger want. "He wants," says thered headed fellow, "to make hares of your best men." "Oh!" says theKing, "if that's the way, let one of 'em turn out and try his mettle."So one stood forward, with _soord_ and pot lid, and made a cut at Tom.He struck the fellow's elbow with the club, and up over their heads flewthe sword, and down went the owner of it on the gravel from a thump hegot on the helmet. Another took his place, and another, and another, andthen half a dozen at once, and Tom sent swords, helmets, shields, andbodies rolling over and over, and themselves bawling out that they werekilt, and disabled, and damaged, and rubbing their poor elbows and hips,and limping away. Tom contrived not to kill anyone. and the princess wasso amused that she let a great sweet laugh out of her that was heard allover the yard. "King of Dublin," says Tom, "I've quarter of yourdaughter." And the King didn't know whether he was glad or sorry, andall the blood in the princess's heart run into her cheeks.So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine withthe royal family. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of ayearling heifer, that used to be _serenading_ (sauntering) about thewalls, and eating people and cattle. and said what a pleasure it wouldgive the King to have it killed. "With all my heart," says Tom. "Send ajackeen to show me where he lives, and we'll see how he behaves to astranger." The princess was not well pleased, for Tom looked a differentperson with fine clothes and a nice green _birredh_ over his long, curlyhair. and besides, he'd got one laugh out of her. However, the King gavehis consent. and in an hour and a half the horrible wolf was walking inthe palace yard, and Tom a step or two behind, with his club on hisshoulder, just as a shepherd would be walking after a pet lamb. The Kingand Queen and princess were safe up in their gallery, but the officersand people of the court that were _padrowling_ about the great bawn,when they saw the big baste coming in gave themselves up, and began tomake for doors and gates. and the wolf licked his chops, as if he wassaying, "Wouldn't I enjoy a breakfast off a couple of yez!" The Kingshouted out, "O Gilla na Chreck an Gour, take away that terrible wolf,and you must have all my daughter." But Tom didn't mind him a bit. Hepulled out his flute and began to play like vengeance. and dickens a manor boy in the yard but began shovelling away heel and toe, and the wolfhimself was obliged to get on his hind legs and dance _Tatther JackWalsh_ along with the rest. A good deal of the people got inside andshut the doors, the way the hairy fellow wouldn't pin them. but Tom keptplaying, and the outsiders kept shouting and dancing, and the wolf keptdancing and roaring with the pain his legs were giving him: and all thetime he had his eyes on Redhead, who was shut out along with the rest.Wherever Redhead went the wolf followed, and kept one eye on him and theother on Tom, to see if he would give him leave to eat him. But Tomshook his head, and never stopped the tune, and Redhead never stoppeddancing and bawling and the wolf dancing and roaring, one leg up and theother down, and he ready to drop out of his standing from fairtiresomeness.When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt shewas so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave anothergreat laugh. and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I havetwo quarters of your daughter." "Oh, quarters or alls," says the King,"put away that divel of a wolf and we'll see about it." So Gilla put hisflute in his pocket, and says he to the baste that was sittin' on hiscurrabingo ready to faint, "Walk off to your mountains, my finefellow, and live like a respectable baste. and if ever I find you comewithin seven miles of any town  " He said no more, but spit in hisfist, and gave a flourish of his club. It was all the poor divel wanted:he put his tail between his legs and took to his pumps without lookingat man nor mortial, and neither sun, moon, nor stars ever saw him insight of Dublin again.At dinner everyone laughed but the foxy fellow. and, sure enough, he waslaying out how he'd settle poor Tom next day. "Well, to be sure!" sayshe, "King of Dublin, you are in luck. There's the Danes moidhering us tono end. D   run to Lusk wid 'em! and if anyone can save us from 'em itis this gentleman with the goat skin. There is a flail hangin' on thecollar beam in Hell, and neither Dane nor Devil can stand before it.""So," says Tom to the King, "will you let me have the other half of theprincess if I bring you the flail?" "No, no," says the princess, "I'drather never be your wife than see you in that danger."But Redhead whispered and nudged Tom about how shabby it would look toreneague the adventure. So he asked him which way he was to go, andRedhead directed him through a street where a great many bad womenlived, and a great many shibbeen houses were open, and away he set.Well, he travelled and travelled till he came in sight of the walls ofHell. and, bedad, before he knocked at the gates, he rubbed himself overwith the greenish ointment. When he knocked a hundred little imps poppedtheir heads out through the bars, and axed him what he wanted. "I wantto speak to the big divel of all," says Tom: "open the gate."It wasn't long till the gate was _thrune_ open, and the Ould Boyreceived Tom with bows and scrapes, and axed his business. "My businessisn't much," says Tom. "I only came for the loan of that flail that Isee hanging on the collar beam for the King of Dublin to give athrashing to the Danes." "Well," says the other, "the Danes is muchbetter customers to me. but, since you walked so far, I won't refuse.Hand that flail," says he to a young imp. and he winked the far off eyeat the same time. So while some were barring the gates, the young devilclimbed up and took down the iron flail that had the handstaff andbooltheen both made out of red hot iron. The little vagabond wasgrinning to think how it would burn the hands off of Tom, but thedickens a burn it made on him, no more nor if it was a good oak sapling."Thankee," says Tom. "now would you open the gate for a body and I'llgive you no more trouble." "Oh, tramp!" says Ould Nick, "is that the way?It is easier getting inside them gates than getting out again. Take thattool from him, and give him a dose of the oil of stirrup." So one fellowput out his claws to seize on the flail, but Tom gave him such a welt ofit on the side of his head that he broke off one of his horns, and madehim roar like a divel as he was. Well, they rushed at Tom, but he gavethem, little and big, such a thrashing as they didn't forget for awhile. At last says the ould thief of all, rubbing his elbows, "Let thefool out. and woe to whoever lets him in again, great or small."So out marched Tom and away with him, without minding the shouting andcursing they kept up at him from the tops of the walls. And when he gothome to the big bawn of the palace, there never was such running andracing as to see himself and the flail. When he had his story told helaid down the flail on the stone steps, and bid no one for their livesto touch it. If the King and Queen and princess made much of him beforethey made ten times as much of him now. but Redhead, the meanscruff hound, stole over, and thought to catch hold of the flail to makean end of him. His fingers hardly touched it, when he let a roar out ofhim as if heaven and earth were coming together, and kept flinging hisarms about and dancing that it was pitiful to look at him. Tom run athim as soon as he could rise, caught his hands in his own two, andrubbed them this way and that, and the burning pain left them before youcould reckon one. Well, the poor fellow, between the pain that was onlyjust gone, and the comfort he was in, had the comicalest face that everyou see. it was such a mixerum gatherum of laughing and crying. Everyoneburst out a laughing the princess could not stop no more than therest and then says Gilla, or Tom, "Now, ma'am, if there were fiftyhalves of you I hope you'll give me them all." Well, the princess had nomock modesty about her. She looked at her father, and, by my word, shecame over to Gilla and put her two delicate hands into his two roughones, and I wish it was myself was in his shoes that day!Tom would not bring the flail into the palace. You may be sure no otherbody went near it. and when the early risers were passing next morningthey found two long clefts in the stone where it was, after burningitself an opening downwards, nobody could tell how far. But a messengercame in at noon and said that the Danes were so frightened when theyheard of the flail coming into Dublin that they got into their ships andsailed away.Well, I suppose before they were married Gilla got some man like PatMara of Tomenine to larn him the "principles of politeness," fluxions,gunnery, and fortifications, decimal fractions, practice, and therule of three direct, the way he'd be able to keep up a conversationwith the royal family. Whether he ever lost his time larning themsciences, I'm not sure, but it's as sure as fate that his mother nevermore saw any want till the end of her days.PATRICK KENNEDY.