guard to keep away the crowd, some of whom had had the impudence toshoot their arrows at me as I sat by the door of my house. But thecolonel ordered six of them to be seized and delivered bound into myhands. I put five of them into my coat pocket. and as to the sixth, Imade a face as if I would eat him alive. The poor man screamed terribly,and the colonel and his officers were much distressed, especially whenthey saw me take out my penknife. But I soon set them at ease, for,cutting the strings he was bound with, I put him gently on the ground,and away he ran. I treated the rest in the same manner, taking them oneby one out of my pocket. and I saw that both the soldiers and peoplewere delighted at this mark of my kindness.Toward night I got with some difficulty into my house, where I lay onthe ground, as I had to do for a fortnight, till a bed was prepared forme out of six hundred beds of the ordinary measure.Six hundred servants were appointed me, and three hundred tailors mademe a suit of clothes. Moreover, six of his Majesty's greatest scholarswere employed to teach me their language, so that soon I was able toconverse after a fashion with the Emperor, who often honored me with hisvisits. The first words I learned were to desire that he would pleaseto give me my liberty, which I every day repeated on my knees. but heanswered that this must be a work of time, and that first I must swear apeace with him and his kingdom. He told me also that by the laws of thenation I must be searched by two of his officers, and that as this couldnot be done without my help, he trusted them in my hands, and whateverthey took from me should be returned when I left the country. I took upthe two officers, and put them into my coat pockets. These gentlemen,having pen, ink, and paper about them, made an exact list of everythingthey saw, which I afterward translated into English, and which ran asfollows:"In the right coat pocket of the great Man Mountain we found only onegreat piece of coarse cloth, large enough to cover the carpet of yourMajesty's chief room of state. In the left pocket we saw a huge silverchest, with a silver cover, which we could not lift. We desired that itshould be opened, and one of us stepping into it found himself up to themid leg in a sort of dust, some of which flying into our faces sent usboth into a fit of sneezing. In his right waistcoat pocket we found anumber of white thin substances, folded one over another, about the sizeof three men, tied with a strong cable, and marked with black figures,which we humbly conceive to be writings. In the left there was a sort ofengine, from the back of which extended twenty long poles, with which,we conjecture, the Man Mountain combs his head. In the smaller pocket onthe right side were several round flat pieces of white and red metal, ofdifferent sizes. Some of the white, which appeared to be silver, wereso large and heavy that my comrade and I could hardly lift them. Fromanother pocket hung a huge silver chain, with a wonderful kind of enginefastened to it, a globe half silver and half of some transparent metal.for on the transparent side we saw certain strange figures, and thoughtwe could touch them till we found our fingers stopped by the shiningsubstance. This engine made an incessant noise, like a water mill, andwe conjecture it is either some unknown animal, or the god he worships,but probably the latter, for he told us that he seldom did anythingwithout consulting it."This is a list of what we found about the body of the Man Mountain, whotreated us with great civility."I had one private pocket which escaped their search, containing a pairof spectacles and a small spy glass, which, being of no consequence tothe Emperor, I did not think myself bound in honor to discover.