Once upon a time there were two orphan children, a little boy and alittle girl. Their father and mother were dead, and they had not evenan old grandfather to spend his time in telling them stories. Theywere alone. The little boy was called Vanoushka, and the littlegirl's name was Alenoushka.They set out together to walk through the whole of the great wideworld. It was a long journey they set out on, and they did not thinkof any end to it, but only of moving on and on, and never stoppinglong enough in one place to be unhappy there.(Footnote 3: That means that they were called Ivan and Elena.Vanoushka and Alenoushka are affectionate forms of these names.)They were travelling one day over a broad plain, padding along ontheir little bare feet. There were no trees on the plain, no bushes.open flat country as far as you could see, and the great sun up in thesky burning the grass and making their throats dry, and the sandyground so hot that they could scarcely bear to set their feet on it.All day from early morning they had been walking, and the heat grewgreater and greater towards noon."Oh," said little Vanoushka, "my throat is so dry. I want a drink. Imust have a drink just a little drink of cool water.""We must go on," said Alenoushka, "till we come to a well. Then wewill drink."They went on along the track, with their eyes burning and theirthroats as dry as sand on a stove.But presently Vanoushka cried out joyfully. He saw a horse's hoofmarkin the ground. And it was full of water, like a little well."Sister, sister," says he, "the horse has made a little well for mewith his great hoof, and now we can have a drink. and oh, but I amthirsty!""Not yet, brother," says Alenoushka. "If you drink from the hoofmarkof a horse, you will turn into a little foal, and that would neverdo.""I am so very thirsty," says Vanoushka. but he did as his sister toldhim, and they walked on together under the burning sun.A little farther on Vanoushka saw the hoofmark of a cow, and therewas water in it glittering in the sun."Sister, sister," says Vanoushka, "the cow has made a little well forme, and now I can have a drink.""Not yet, brother," says Alenoushka. "If you drink from the hoofmarkof a cow, you will turn into a little calf, and that would never do.We must go on till we come to a well. There we will drink and restourselves. There will be trees by the well, and shadows, and we willlie down there by the quiet water and cool our hands and feet, andperhaps our eyes will stop burning."So they went on farther along the track that scorched the bare solesof their feet, and under the sun that burned their heads and theirlittle bare necks. The sun was high in the sky above them, and itseemed to Vanoushka that they would never come to the well.But when they had walked on and on, and he was nearly crying withthirst, only that the sun had dried up all his tears and burnt thembefore they had time to come into his eyes, he saw another footprint.It was quite a tiny footprint, divided in the middle the footprint ofa sheep. and in it was a little drop of clear water, sparkling in thesun. He said nothing to his sister, nothing at all. But he went downon his hands and knees and drank that water, that little drop of clearwater, to cool his burning throat. And he had no sooner drunk it thanhe had turned into a little lamb..."A little white lamb," said Maroosia."With a black nose," said Vanya.A little lamb, said old Peter, a little lamb who ran round and roundAlenoushka, frisking and leaping, with its little tail tossing in theair.Alenoushka looked round for her brother, but could not see him. Butthere was the little lamb, leaping round her, trying to lick her face,and there in the ground was the print left by the sheep's foot.She guessed at once what had happened, and burst into tears. There wasa hayrick close by, and under the hayrick Alenoushka sat down andwept. The little lamb, seeing her so sad, stood gravely in front ofher. but not for long, for he was a little lamb, and he could not helphimself. However sad he felt, he had to leap and frisk in the sun, andtoss his little white tail.Presently a fine gentleman came riding by on his big black horse. Hestopped when he came to the hayrick. He was very much surprised atseeing a beautiful little girl sitting there, crying her eyes out,while a white lamb frisked this way and that, and played before her,and now and then ran up to her and licked the tears from her face withits little pink tongue."What is your name," says the fine gentleman, "and why are you introuble? Perhaps I may be able to help you.""My name is Alenoushka, and this is my little brother Vanoushka, whomI love." And she told him the whole story."Well, I can hardly believe all that," says the fine gentleman, "Butcome with me, and I will dress you in fine clothes, and set silverornaments in your hair, and bracelets of gold on your little brownwrists. And as for the lamb, he shall come too, if you love him.Wherever you are there he shall be, and you shall never be parted fromhim."And so Alenoushka took her little brother in her arms, and the finegentleman lifted them up before him on the big black horse, andgalloped home with them across the plain to his big house not far fromthe river. And when he got home he made a feast and marriedAlenoushka, and they lived together so happily that good peoplerejoiced to see them, and bad ones were jealous. And the little lamblived in the house, and never grew any bigger, but always frisked andplayed, and followed Alenoushka wherever she went.And then one day, when the fine gentleman had ridden far away to thetown to buy a new bracelet for Alenoushka, there came an old witch.Ugly she was, with only one tooth in her head, and wicked as ever wentabout the world doing evil to decent folk. She begged from Alenoushka,and said she was hungry, and Alenoushka begged her to share herdinner. And she put a spell in the wine that Alenoushka drank, so thatAlenoushka fell ill, and before evening, when the fine gentleman cameriding back, had become pale, pale as snow, and as thin as an oldstick."My dear," says the fine gentleman, "what is the matter with you?""Perhaps I shall be better to morrow," says Alenoushka.Well, the next day the gentleman rode into the fields, and the old hagcame again while he was out."Would you like me to cure you?" says she. "I know a way to make youas well as ever you were. Plump you will be, and pretty again, beforeyour husband comes riding home.""And what must I do?" says Alenoushka, crying to think herself sougly."You must go to the river and bathe this afternoon," says the oldwitch. "I will be there and put a spell on the water. Secretly youmust go, for if any one knows whither you have gone my spell will notwork."So Alenoushka wrapped a shawl about her head, and slipped out of thehouse and went to the river. Only the little lamb, Vanoushka, knewwhere she had gone. He followed her, leaping about, and tossing hislittle white tail. The old witch was waiting for her. She sprang outof the bushes by the riverside, and seized Alenoushka, and tore offher pretty white dress, and fastened a heavy stone about her neck, andthrew her from the bank into a deep place, so that she sank to thebottom of the river. Then the old witch, the wicked hag, put onAlenoushka's pretty white dress, and cast a spell, and made herself solike Alenoushka to look at that nobody could tell the difference. Onlythe little lamb had seen everything that had happened.The fine gentleman came riding home in the evening, and he rejoicedwhen he saw his dear Alenoushka well again, with plump pink cheeks,and a smile on her rosy lips.But the little lamb knew everything. He was sad and melancholy, andwould not eat, and went every morning and every evening to the river,and there wandered about the banks, and cried, "Baa, baa," and wasanswered by the sighing of the wind in the long reeds.The witch saw that the lamb went off by himself every morning andevery evening. She watched where he went, and when she knew she beganto hate the lamb. and she gave orders for the sticks to be cut, andthe iron cauldron to be heated, and the steel knives made sharp. Shesent a servant to catch the lamb. and she said to the fine gentleman,who thought all the time that she was Alenoushka, "It is time for thelamb to be killed, and made into a tasty stew."The fine gentleman was astonished."What," says he, "you want to have the lamb killed? Why, you called ityour brother when first I found you by the hayrick in the plain. Youwere always giving it caresses and sweet words. You loved it so muchthat I was sick of the sight of it, and now you give orders for itsthroat to be cut. Truly," says he, "the mind of woman is like the windin summer."The lamb ran away when he saw that the servant had come to catch him.He heard the sharpening of the knives, and had seen the cutting of thewood, and the great cauldron taken from its place. He was frightened,and he ran away, and came to the river bank, where the wind wassighing through the tall reeds. And there he sang a farewell song tohis sister, thinking he had not long to live. The servant followedthe lamb cunningly, and crept near to catch him, and heard his littlesong. This is what he sang: "Alenoushka, little sister,They are going to slaughter me.They are cutting wooden fagots,They are heating iron cauldrons,They are sharpening knives of steel."And Alenoushka, lamenting, answered the lamb from the bottom of theriver: "O my brother Ivanoushka,A heavy stone is round my throat,Silken grass grows through my fingers,Yellow sand lies on my breast."The servant listened, and marvelled at the miracle of the lambsinging, and the sweet voice answering him from the river. He creptaway quietly, and came to the fine gentleman, and told him what he hadheard. and they set out together to the river, to watch the lamb, andlisten, and see what was happening.(: He stepped on one of its fiery wings and pressed it toThe ground.)The little white lamb stood on the bank of the river weeping, so thathis tears fell into the water. And presently he sang again: "Alenoushka, little sister,They are going to slaughter me.They are cutting wooden fagots,They are heating iron cauldrons,They are sharpening knives of steel."And Alenoushka answered him, lamenting, from the bottom of theriver: "O my brother Ivanoushka,A heavy stone is round my throat,Silken grass grows through my fingers,Yellow sand lies on my breast."The fine gentleman heard, and he was sure that the voice was the voiceof his own dear wife, and he remembered how she had loved the lamb. Hesent his servant to fetch men, and fishing nets and nets of silk. Themen came running, and they dragged the river with fishing nets, andbrought their nets empty to land. Then they tried with nets of finesilk, and, as they drew them in, there was Alenoushka lying in thenets as if she were asleep.They brought her to the bank and untied the stone from her white neck,and washed her in fresh water and clothed her in white clothes. Butthey had no sooner done all this than she woke up, more beautiful thanever she had been before, though then she was pretty enough, Godknows. She woke, and sprang up, and threw her arms round the neck ofthe little white lamb, who suddenly became once more her littlebrother Vanoushka, who had been so thirsty as to drink water from thehoofmark of a sheep. And Vanoushka laughed and shouted in thesunshine, and the fine gentleman wept tears of joy. And they allpraised God and kissed each other, and went home together, and beganto live as happily as before, even more happily, because Vanoushka wasno longer a lamb. But as soon as they got home the fine gentlemanturned the old witch out of the house. And she became an ugly old hag,and went away to the deep woods, shrieking as she went."And did she ever come back again?" asked Ivan."No, she never came back again," said old Peter. "Once was enough.""And what happened to Vanoushka when he grew up?""He grew up as handsome as Alenoushka was pretty. And he became agreat hunter. And he married the sister of the fine gentleman. Andthey all lived happily together, and ate honey every day, with whitebread and new milk."