In days of yore and in times and tides long gone before theredwelt in a certain town of Persia two brothers one named Kasimand the other Ali Baba, who at their father's demise had dividedthe little wealth he had left to them with equitable division, andhad lost no time in wasting and spending it all. The elder, however,presently took to himself a wife, the daughter of an opulentmerchant. so that when his father in law fared to the mercy ofAlmighty Allah, he became owner of a large shop filled with raregoods and costly wares and of a storehouse stocked with preciousstuffs. likewise of much gold that was buried in the ground. Thuswas he known throughout the city as a substantial man.But the woman whom Ali Baba had married was poor and needy. theylived, therefore, in a mean hovel and Ali Baba eked out a scantylivelihood by the sale of fuel which he daily collected in the jungleand carried about the town to the Bazar upon his three asses.Now it chanced one day that Ali Baba had cut dead branches and dryfuel sufficient for his need, and had placed the load upon his beastswhen suddenly he espied a dust cloud spireing high in air to hisright and moving rapidly towards him. and when he closely consideredit he descried a troop of horsemen riding on amain andabout to reach him.At this sight he was sore alarmed, and fearinglest perchance they were a band of bandits who would slay himand drive off his donkeys, in his affright he began to run. but forasmuchas they were near hand and he could not escape from out theforest, he drove his animals laden with the fuel into a bye way ofthe bushes and swarmed up a thick trunk of a huge tree to hidehimself therein. and he sat upon a branch whence he could descryeverything beneath him whilst none below could catch a glimpseof him above. and that tree grew close beside a rock whichtowered high above head.The horsemen, young, active, anddoughty riders, came close up to the rock face and all dismounted.whereat Ali Baba took good note of them and soon he was fullypersuaded by their mien and demeanour that they were a troop ofhighwaymen who, having fallen upon a caravan had despoiled itand carried off the spoil and brought their booty to this place withintent of concealing it safely in some cache. Moreover he observedthat they were forty in number.Ali Baba saw the robbers, as soon as they came under the tree, each unbridlehis horse and hobble it. then all took off their saddle bagswhich proved to be full of gold and silver. The man whoseemed to be the captain presently pushed forwards, load onshoulder, through thorns and thickets, till he came up to a certainspot where he uttered these strange words,"Open, O Simsim I"and forthwith appeared a wide doorway in the face of the rock.The robbers went in and last of all their Chief and then the portalshut of itself. Long while they stayed within the cave whilst AliBaba was constrained to abide perched upon the tree, reflectingthat if he came down peradventure the band might issue forththat very moment and seize him and slay him. At last he haddetermined to mount one of the horses and driving on his asses toreturn townwards, when suddenly the portal flew open.The robber chief was first to issue forth. then, standing at the entrance,he saw and counted his men as they came out, and lastly he spakethe magical words,"Shut, O Simsim!" whereat the door closed ofitself. When all had passed muster and review, each slung on hissaddle bags and bridled his own horse and as soon as ready they rodeoff, led by the leader, in the direction whence they came.Ali Babaremained still perched on the tree and watched their departure. norwould he descend until what time they were clean gone out of sight,lest perchance one of them return and look around and descry him.Then he thought within himself,"I too will try the virtue of thosemagical words and see if at my bidding the door will open andclose."So he called out aloud,"Open, O Simsim!"And no sooner had he spoken than straightway the portal flew open andhe entered within. He saw a large cavern and a vaulted, in heightequalling the stature of a full grown man and it was hewn in thelive stone and lighted up with light that came through air holesand bullseyes in the upper surface of the rock which formed theroof. He had expected to find naught save outer gloom in thisrobbers' den, and he was surprised to see the whole room filled withbales of all manner stuffs, and heaped up from sole to ceiling withcamel loads of silks and brocades and embroidered cloths andmounds on mounds of vari coloured carpetings. besides which heespied coins golden and silvern without measure or account, somepiled upon the ground and others bound in leathern bags andsacks. Seeing these goods and moneys in such abundance,Ali Baba determined in his mind that not during a few years only butfor many generations thieves must have stored their gains andspoils in this place.When he stood within the cave, its door hadclosed upon him, yet he was not dismayed since, he had kept inmemory the magical words. and he took no heed of the preciousstuffs around him, but applied himself only and wholly to the sacksof Ashrafis. Of these he carried out as many as he judged sufficientburthen for the beasts. then he loaded them upon his animals,and covered this plunder with sticks and fuel, so none mightdiscern the bags, but might think that he was carrying home hisusual ware.Lastly he called out, "Shut, O Simsim!" and forthwiththe door closed, for the spell so wrought that whensoever anyentered the cave, its portal shut of itself behind him. and, as heissued therefrom, the same would neither open nor close again tillhe had pronounced the words, "Shut, O Simsim!"Presently, having laden his asses Ali Baba urged them before him with all speedto the city and reaching home he drove them into the yard. and,shutting close the outer door, took down first the sticks and fueland after the bags of gold which he carried in to his wife.She felt them and finding them full of coin suspected that Ali Baba hadbeen robbing and fell to berating and blaming him for that heshould do so ill a thing.Then quoth Ali Baba to his wife:"Indeed I am no robber but rather do thourejoice with me at our good fortune."Hereupon he told her ofhis adventure and began to pour the gold from the bags in heapsbefore her, and her sight was dazzled by the sheen and her heartdelighted at his recital and adventures.Then she began countingthe gold, whereat quoth Ali Baba,"O silly woman, how long wilt thou continue turning over the coin?Now let me dig a hole whereinto hide this treasure that none may know its secret."Quoth she, "Right is thy rede! still would I weigh the moneys and have someinkling of their amount." and he replied,"As thou pleasest, butsee thou tell no man."So she went off in haste to Kasim's hometo borrow weights and scales wherewith she might balance theAshrafis and make some reckoning of their value. and when shecould not find Kaim she said to his wife,"Lend me, I pray thee,thy scales for a moment."Replied her sister in law, "Hast thouneed of the bigger balance or the smaller?" and the otherrejoined, "I need not the large scales, give me the little." andher sister in law cried,"Stay here a moment whilst I look aboutand find thy want."With this pretext Kasim's wife went asideand secretly smeared wax and suet over the pan of the balance,that she might know what thing it was Ali Baba's wife wouldweigh, for she made sure that whatso it be some bit thereof wouldstick to the wax and fat. So the woman took this opportunity tosatisfy her curiosity, and Ali Baba's wife suspecting naught thereofcarried home the scales and began to weigh the gold, whilst AliBaba ceased not digging. and, when the money was weighed,they twain stowed it into the hole which they carefully filled upwith earth.Then the good wife took back the scales to herkinswoman, all unknowing that an Ashrafi had adhered to thecup of the scales. but when Kasim's wife espied the gold coinshe fumed with envy and wrath, saying to herself,"So ho! theyborrowed my balance to weigh out Ashrafis?" and she marvelledgreatly whence so poor a man as Ali Baba had gotten such storeof wealth that he should be obliged to weigh it with a pair ofscales.Now after long pondering the matter, when her husbandreturned home at eventide, she said to him,"O man, thou deemestthyself a wight of wealth and substance, but lo, thy brother AliBaba is an Emir by the side of thee and richer far than thou art.He hath such heaps of gold that he must needs weigh his moneyswith scales, whilst thou, forsooth, art satisfied to count thy coin.""Whence knowe'st thou this?" asked Kasim, and in answer hiswife related all anent the pair of scales and how she found anAshrafi stuck to them, and shewed him the gold coin which borethe mark and superscription of some ancient king.No sleep had Kasim all that night by reason of his envy and jealousy andcovetise. and next morning he rose betimes and going to AliBaba said,"O my brother, to all appearance thou art poor andneedy. but in effect thou hast a store of wealth so abundantthat perforce thou must weigh thy gold with scales."Quoth Ali Baba,"What is this thou sayest? I understand thee not. makeclear thy purport." and quoth Kasim with ready rage,"Feign notthat thou art ignorant of what I say and think not to deceive me."Then showing him the Ashrafi he cried,"Thousands of gold coinssuch as these thou hast put by. and meanwhile my wife foundthis one stuck to the cup of the scales."Then Ali Baba understoodhow both Kasim and his wife knew that he had store ofAshrafis, and said in his mind that it would not avail him to keepthe matter hidden, but would rather cause ill will and mischief.and thus he was induced to tell his brother every whit concerningthe bandits and also of the treasure trove in the cave.When he had heard the story, Kasim exclaimed,"I would fain learn of thee the certainty of the place where them foundest the moneys.also the magical words whereby the door opened and closed. and Iforewarn thee an thou tell me not the whole truth, I will givenotice of those Ashrafis to the Wali.then shalt thou forfeit allthy wealth and be disgraced and thrown into gaol."ThereuponAli Baba told him his tale not forgetting the magical words. andKasim who kept careful heed of all these matters next day set out,driving ten mules he had hired, and readily found the place whichAli Baba had described to him. And when he came to the aforesaidrock and to the tree whereon Ali Baba had hidden himself,and he had made sure of the door he cried in great joy,"Open, O Simsim!"The portal yawned wide at once and Kasim wentwithin and saw the piles of jewels and treasures lying ranged allaround. and, as soon as he stood amongst them the door shutafter him as wont to do. He walked about in ecstasy marvellingat the treasures, and when weary of admiration he gatheredtogether bags of Ashrafis, a sufficient load for his ten mules, andplaced them by the entrance in readiness to be carried outside andset upon the beasts. But by the will of Allah Almighty he hadclean forgotten the cabalistic words and cried out, "Open, OBarley!" whereat the door refused to move.Astonished and confusedbeyond measure he named the names of all manner of grainssave sesame, which had slipped from his memory as though he hadnever heard the word. whereat in his dire distress he heeded not theAshrafis that lay heaped at the entrance and paced to and fro,backwards and forwards, within the cave sorely puzzled and perplexed.The wealth whose sight had erewhile filled his heart withjoy and gladness was now the cause of bitter grief and sadness.Kasini gave up all hope of the life which he by his greed and envy hadso sore imperilled.It came to pass that at noontide the robbers,returning by that way, saw from afar some mules standing beside theentrance and much they marvelled at what had brought the beaststo that place. for, inasmuch as Kasim by mischance had failed totether or hobble them, they had strayed about the jungle and werebrowsing hither and thither. However, the thieves paid scantregard to the estrays nor cared they to secure them, but onlywondered by what means they had wandered so far from thetown.Then, reaching the cave the Captain and his troop dismountedand going up to the door repeated the formula and atonce it flew open. Now Kasim had heard from within the cavethe horse hooves drawing nigh and yet nigher. and he fell downto the ground in a fit of fear never doubting that it was the clatterof the banditti who would slaughter him without fail. Howbeit hepresently took heart of grace and at the moment when the doorflew open he rushed out hoping to make good his escape. But theunhappy ran full tilt against the Captain who stood in front of theband, and felled him to the ground. whereupon a robber standingnear his chief at once bared his brand and with one cut clave Kasimclean in twain.Thereupon the robbers rushed into the cavern, andput back as they were before the bags of Ashrafis which Kasimhad heaped up at the doorway ready for taking away. nor reckedthey aught of those which Ali Baba had removed, so dazed andamazed were they to discover by what means the strange man hadeffected an entrance. All knew that it was not possible for any todrop through the skylights so tall and steep was the rock's face,withal slippery of ascent. and also that none could enter by theportal unless he knew the magical words whereby to open it.However they presently quartered the dead body of Kasimand hung it to the door within the cavern, two parts to the right jamband as many to the left that the sight might be a warning ofapproaching doom for all who dared enter the cave. Then comingout they closed the hoard door and rode away upon their wontedwork.Now when night fell and Kasim came not home, his wifewaxed uneasy in mind and running round to Ali Baba said,"O my brother, Kasim hath not returned: thou knowest whither hewent, and sore I fear me some misfortune hath betided him."Ali Baba also divined that a mishap had happened to prevent hisreturn. not the less, however, he strove to comfort his sister in lawwith words of cheer and said,"O wife of my brother, Kasim haplyexerciseth discretion and, avoiding the city, cometh by a roundaboutroad and will be here anon. This, I do believe, is the reasonwhy he tarrieth."Thereupon comforted in spirit Kasim's wifefared homewards and sat awaiting her husband's return. but whenhalf the night was spent and still he came not, she was as onedistraught. She feared to cry aloud for her grief, lest haply theneighbours hearing her should come and learn the secret. so shewept in silence and upbraiding herself fell to thinking,"Wherefore did I disclose this secret to him and beget envy and jealousy ofAli Baba? this be the fruit thereof and hence the disaster that hathcome down upon me."She spent the rest of the night in bittertears and early on the morrow hied in hottest hurry to Ali Babaand prayed that he would go forth in quest of his brother. so hestrove to console her and straightway set out with his asses for theforest. Presently, reaching the rock he wondered to see stains ofblood freshly shed and not finding his brother or the ten mules heforefelt a calamity from so evil a sign.He then went to the door and saving,"Open, O Simsim!" he pushed in and saw thedead body of Kasim, two parts hanging to the right,and the rest to the left of the entrance. Albeit he was affrighted beyondmeasure of affright he wrapped the quarters in two cloths and laidthem upon one of his asses, hiding them carefully with sticks andfuel that none might see them. Then he placed the bags of goldupon the two other animals and likewise covered them mostcarefully. and, when all was made ready he closed the cave doorwith the magical words, and set him forth wending homewards withall ward and watchfulness.The asses with the load of Ashrafis hemade over to his wife and bade her bury the bags with diligence.but he told her not the condition in which he had come upon hisbrother Kasim, Then he went with the other ass, to wit, the beastwhereon was laid the corpse to the widow's house and knockedgently at the door.Now Kasim had a slave girl shrewd andsharp witted, Morgiana hight. She as softly undid the bolt andadmitted Ali Baba and the ass into the courtyard of the house,when he let down the body from the beast's back and said,"O Morgiana, haste thee and make thee ready to perform the rites forthe burial of thy lord: I now go to tell the tidings to thy mistressand I will quickly return to help thee in this matter."At that instant Kasim's widow seeing her brother in law, exclaimed,"OAli Baba, what news bringest thou of my spouse? Alas, I seegrief tokens written upon thy countenance. Say quickly whathath happened."Then he recounted to her how it had fared withher husband and how he had been slain by the robbers and in whatwise he had brought home the dead body.Ali Baba pursued:"O my lady, what was to happen hath happened, but it behoveth us tokeep this matter secret, for that our livesdepend upon privacy."She wept with sore weeping and made answer,"It hath fared with my husband according to the fiat ofFate. and now for thy safety's sake I give thee my word to keepthe affair concealed."He replied, "Naught can avail when Allahhath decreed. Rest thee in patience. until the days of thywidowhood be accomplisht. after which time I will take thee towife, and thou shalt live in comfort and happiness. and fear notlest my first spouse vex thee or show aught of jealousy, for thatshe is kindly and tender of heart."The widow lamenting her loss noisily, cried,"Be it as e'en thou please."Then Ali Baba farewelled her, weeping and wailing for her husband.and joining Morgiana took counsel with her how to manage the burialof his brother. So, after much consultation and many warnings,he left the slave girl and departed home driving his ass before him.As soon as Ali Baba had fared forth Morgiana went quickly to adruggist's shop. and, that she might the better dissemble withhim and not make known the matter, she asked of him a drugoften administered to men when diseased with dangerous distemper.He gave it saying, "Who is there in thy house that lieth so ill asto require this medicine?" and said she, "My Master Kasim issick well nigh unto death: for many days he hath nor spoken nortasted aught of food, so that almost we despair of his life."Next day Morgiana went again and asked the druggist for more ofmedicine and essences such as are adhibited to the sick when atdoor of death, that the moribund may haply rally before thelast breath.The man gave the potion and she taking it sighedaloud and wept, saying, "I fear me he may not have strength todrink this draught: methinks all will be over with him ere I returnto the house."Meanwhile Ali Baba was anxiously awaiting tohear sounds of wailing and lamentation in Kasim's home that he might atsuch signal hasten thither and take part in the ceremoniesof the funeral. Early on the second day Morgiana went withveiled face to one Baba Mustafa, a tailor well shotten in yearswhose craft was to make shrouds and cerecloths. and as soon asshe saw him open his shop she gave him a gold piece and said,"Do thou bind a bandage over thine eyes and come along withme."Mustafa made as though he would not go, whereatMorgiana placed a second gold coin in his palm and entreatedhim to accompany her. The tailor presently consented for greedof gain, so tying a kerchief tightly over his eyes she led him bythe hand to the house wherein lay the dead body of her master.Then, taking off the bandage in the darkened room she bade himsew together the quarters of the corpse, limb to its limb. and, castinga cloth upon the body, said to the tailor,"Make haste and sew a shroud according to the size of this dead manand I will give thee therefor yet another ducat."Baba Mustafa quickly made thecere cloth of fitting length and breadth, and Morgiana paid himthe promised Ashrafi. then once more bandaging his eyes led himback to the place whence she had brought him. After this shereturned hurriedly home and with the help of Ali Baba washedthe body, in warm water and donning the shroud lay the corpseupon a clean place ready for burial.This done Morgiana wentto the mosque and gave notice to an Imam that a funeral wasawaiting the mourners in a certain household, and prayed that hewould come to read the prayers for the dead. and the Imam wentback with her. Then four neighbours took up the bier and bore iton tneir shoulders and fared forth with the Imam and otherswho were wont to give assistance at such obsequies. After thefuneral prayers were ended four other men carried off the coffin.and Morgiana walked before it bare of head, striking her breastand weeping and wailing with exceeding loud lament, whilst AliBaba and the neighbours came behind.In such order theyentered the cemetery and buried him. then, leaving him to Munkarand Nakir   the Questioners of the Dead   all wended their ways.Presently the women of the quarter, according to the custom of thecity, gathered together in the house of mourning and sat an hourwith Kasim's widow comforting and condoling, presently leavingher somewhat resigned and cheered. Ali Baba stayed forty daysat home in ceremonial lamentation for the loss of his brother. sonone within the town save himself and his wife (Kasim's widow)and Morgiana knew aught about the secret. And when the fortydays of mourning were ended Ali Baba removed to his ownquarters all the property belonging to the deceased and openlymarried the widow. then he appointed his nephew, his brother'seldest son, who had lived a long time with a wealthy merchantand was perfect of knowledge in all matters of trade, such as sellingand buying, to take charge of the defunct's shop and to carry onthe business.It so chancedone day when the robbers, as was their wont, came to the treasurecavethat they marvelled exceedingly to find nor sign nor trace ofKasim's body whilst they observed that much of gold had beencarried off.Quoth the Captain,"Now it behoveth us to make enquiry in this matter. else shallwe suffer much of loss arid thisour treasure, which we and our forefathers have amassed duringthe course of many years, will little by little be wasted andspoiled."Hereto all assented and with single mind agreed thathe whom they had slain had knowledge of the magical wordswhereby the door was made to open. moreover that some onebeside him had cognizance of the spell and had carried off thebody, and also much of gold. wherefore they needs must makediligent research and find out who the man ever might be. Theythen took counsel and determined that one amongst them, whoshould be sagacious and deft of wit, must don the dress of somemerchant from foreign parts. then, repairing to the city he mustgo about from quarter to quarter and from street to street, andlearn if any townsman had lately died and if so where he wont todwell, that with this clue they might be enabled to find the wightthey sought.Hereat said one of the robbers,"Grant me leavethat I fare and find out such tidings in the town and bring theeword anon. and if I fail of my purpose I hold my life in forfeit."Accordingly that bandit, after disguising himself by dress, pushedat night into the town and next morning early he repaired to themarket square and saw that none of the shops had yet been opened,save only that of Baba Mustafa the tailor, who thread and needlein hand sat upon his working stool.The thief bade him good day and said,"'Tis yet dark: how canst thou see to sew?"Said the tailor, "I perceive thou art a stranger. Despite my years myeyesight is so keen that only yesterday I sewed together a deadbody whilst sitting in a room quite darkened."Quoth the bandit thereupon to himself, "I shall get somewhat of my want from thissnip." and to secure a further clue he asked,"Meseemeth thou wouldst jest with me and thou meanest that a cerecloth for acorpse was stitched by thee and that thy business is to sewshrouds."Answered the tailor, "It mattereth not to thee: questionme no more questions."Thereupon the robber placed an Ashrafi in his hand and continued,"I desire not to discover aught thouhidest, albeit my breast like every honest man's is the grave ofsecrets. and this only would I learn of thee, in what house didstthou do that job? Canst thou direct me thither, or thyselfconduct me thereto?"The tailor took the gold with greed andcried, "I have not seen with my own eyes the way to that house.A certain bondswoman led me to a place which I know right welland there she bandaged my eyes and guided me to some tenementand lastly carried me into a darkened room where lay the deadbody dismembered. Then she unbound the kerchief and bade mesew together first the corpse and then the shroud, which havingdone she again blindfolded me and led me back to the steadwhence she had brought me and left me there. Thou seest then Iam not able to tell thee where thou shalt find the house."Quoth the robber, "Albeit thou knowest not the dwelling whereof thouspeakest, still canst thou take me to the place where thou wastblindfolded. then I will bind a kerchief over thine eyes and leadthee as thou wast led: on this wise perchance thou mayest hitupon the site. An thou wilt do this favour by me, see hereanother golden ducat is thine."Thereupon the bandit slipped asecond Ashrafi into the tailor's palm, and Baba Mustafa thrust itwith the first into his pocket. then, leaving his shop as it was, hewalked to the place where Morgiana had tied the kerchief aroundhis eyes, and with him went the robber who, after binding on thebandage, led him by the hand.Baba Mustafa, who was clever andkeen witted, presently striking the street whereby he had faredwith the handmaid, walked on counting step by step. then, haltingsuddenly, he said, "Thus far I came with her." and the twainstopped in front of Kasim's house wherein now dwelt his brotherAli Baba.The robber then made marks with white chalk upon the door to theend that he might readily find it at some future time, andremoving the bandage from the tailor's eyes said, "O BabaMustafa, I thank thee for this favour: and Almighty Allahguerdon thee for thy goodness. Tell me now, I pray thee, whodwelleth in yonder house?"Quoth he,"In very sooth I wot not,for I have little knowledge concerning this quarter of the city."and the bandit, understanding that he could find no further cluefrom the tailor, dismissed him to his shop with abundant thanks,and hastened back to the tryst place in the jungle where the bandawaited his coming.Not long after it so fortuned that Morgiana,going out upon some errand, marvelled exceedingly at seeingthe chalk marks showing white in the door. she stood awhiledeep in thought and presently divined that some enemy had madethe signs that he might recognize the house and play some sleightupon her lord. She therefore chalked the doors of all herneighbours in like manner and kept the matter secret, neverentrusting it or to master or to mistress.Meanwhile the robbertold his comrades his tale of adventure and how he had foundthe clue. so the Captain and with him all the band went oneafter other by different ways till they entered the city . and hewho had placed the mark on Ali Baba's door accompanied theChief to point out the place. He conducted him straightwayto the house and shewing the sign exclaimed,"Here dwelleth he of whom we are in search!"But when the Captain lookedaround him he saw that all the dwellings bore chalk marks afterlike fashion and he wondered saying,"By what manner of meansknowest thou which house of all these houses that bear similarsigns is that whereof thou spakest?"Hereat the robber guide was confounded beyond measure of confusion,and could make no answer. then with an oath he cried,"I did assuredly set a signupon a door, but I know not whence came all the marks uponthe other entrances. nor can I say for a surety which it was Ichalked."Thereupon the Captain returned to the market placeand said to his men,"We have toiled and laboured in vain, norhave we found the house we went forth to seek. Return we nowto the forest our rendezvous: I also will fare thither."Then all trooped off and assembled together within the treasure cave.and, when the robbers had all met, the Captain judged him worthyof punishment who had spoken falsely and had led them throughthe city to no purpose. So he imprisoned him in presence ofthem all. and then said he,"To him amongst you will I show specialfavour who shall go to town and bring me intelligencewhereby we may lay hands upon the plunderer of our property."Hereat another of the company came forward and said,"I am ready to go and enquire into the case, and 'tis I who will bringthee to thy wish."The Captain after giving him presents andpromises despatched him upon his errand. and by the decreeof Destiny which none may gainsay, this second robber wentfirst to the house of Baba Mustafa the tailor, as had done thethief who had foregone him. In like manner he also persuadedthe snip with gifts of golden coin that he be led hoodwinkedand thus too he was guided to Ali Baba's door. Here notingthe work of his predecessor, he affixed to the jamb a mark withred chalk the better to distinguish it from the others whereonstill showed the white. Then hied he back in stealth to hiscompany. but Morgiana on her part also descried the redsign on the entrance and with subtle forethought marked allthe others after the same fashion. nor told she any what shehad done.Meanwhile the bandit rejoined his band and vauntingly said,"O our Captain, I have found the house and thereon put amark whereby I shall distinguish it clearly from all its neighbours."The Captain despatched another of his men to the city and he foundthe place, but, as aforetime, when the troop repaired thither theysaw each and every house marked with signs of red chalk. Sothey returned disappointed and the Captain, waxing displeasedexceedingly and distraught, clapped also this spy into gaol.Then said the chief to himself, "Two men have failed in theirendeavour and have met their rightful meed of punishment. andI trow that none other of my band will essay to follow up theirresearch. so I myself will go and find the house of this wight."Accordingly he fared along and aided by the tailor Baba Mustafa,who had gained much gain of golden pieces in this matter, hehit upon the house of Ali Baba. and here he made no outwardshow or sign, but marked it on the tablet of his heart andimpressed the picture upon the page of his memory.Then returning to the jungle he said to his men, "I have full cognizanceof the place and have limned it clearly in my mind . sonow there will be no difficulty in finding it. Go forth straightwaysand buy me and bring hither nineteen mules together withone large leathern jar of mustard oil and seven and thirty vesselsof the same kind clean empty. Without me and the two lockedup in gaol ye number thirty seven souls. so I will stow youaway armed and accoutred each within his jar and will loadtwo upon each mule, and upon the nineteenth mule there shallbe a man in an empty jar on one side, and on the other thejar full of oil. I for my part, in guise of an oil merchant,will drive the mules into the town, arriving at the house by night,and will ask permission of its master to tarry there until morning.After this we shall seek occasion during the dark hours to riseup and fall upon him and slay him."Furthermore the Captain spake saying, "When we have made an end of trim we shallrecover the gold and treasure whereof he robbed us and bring itback upon the mules."This counsel pleased the robbers whowent forthwith and purchased mules and huge leathern jars, anddid as the Captain had bidden them. And after a delay ofthree days shortly before nightfall they arose. and over smearingall the jars with oil of mustard, each hid him inside an emptyvessel. The Chief then disguised himself in trader's gear andplaced the jars upon the nineteen mules. to wit, the thirty sevenvessels in each of which lay a robber armed and accoutred, andthe one that was full of oil. This done, he drove the beastsbefore him and presently he reached Ali Baba's place at nightfall.when it chanced that the house master was strolling aftersupper to and fro in front of his home.The Captain saluted him with the salam and said,"I come from such and such avillage with oil. and ofttimes have I been here a selling oil, butnow to my grief I have arrived too late and I am sore troubledand perplexed as to where I shall spend the night. An thouhave pity on me I pray thee grant that I tarry here in thy courtyardand ease the mules by taking down the jars and giving thebeasts somewhat of fodder."Albeit Ali Baba had heard theCaptain's voice when perched upon the tree and had seen himenter the cave, yet by reason of the disguise he knew him notfor the leader of the thieves, and granted his request with heartywelcome and gave him full license to halt there for the night.He then pointed out an empty shed wherein to tether the mules,and bade one of the slave boys go fetch grain and water. Healso gave orders to the slave girl Morgiana saying, "A guesthath come hither and tarrieth here to night.Do thou busy thyself with all speed about his supper and make ready the guestbedfor him."Presently, when the Captain had let down all thejars and had fed and watered his mules, Ali Baba received himwith all courtesy and kindness, and summoning Morgiana said inhis presence,"See thou fail not in service of this our strangernor suffer him to lack for aught. To morrow early I would fareto the Hammam and bathe. so do thou give my slave boy Abdullaha suit of clean white clothes which I may put on after washing.moreover make thee ready a somewhat of broth overnight thatI may drink it after my return home."Replied she, "I will have all in readiness as thou hast bidden."So Ali Baba retiredto his rest, and the Captain, having supped, repaired to the shedand saw that all the mules had their food and drink for thenight.The Captain, after seeing to the mules and the jars which Ali Baba and hishousehold held to be full of oil, finding utter privacy, whispered to hismen who were in ambush,"This night at midnight when ye hearmy voice, do you quickly open with your sharp knives the leathernjars from top to bottom and issue forth without delay."Then passing through the kitchen he reached the chamber wherein a bedhad been dispread for him, Morgiana showing the way with alamp.Quoth she, "An thou need aught beside I pray thee commandthis thy slave who is ever ready to obey thy say!"He made answer, "Naught else need I." then, putting out the light,he lay him down on the bed to sleep awhile ere the time came torouse his men and finish off the work.Meanwhile Morgiana did as her master had bidden her:she first took out a suit of cleanwhite clothes and made it over to Abdullah who had not yet gone to rest.then she placed the pipkin upon the hearth to boil thebroth and blew the fire till it burnt briskly. After a short delayshe needs must see an the broth be boiling, but by that time allthe lamps had gone out and she found that the oil was spent andthat nowhere could she get a light.The slave boy Abdullah observed that she was troubled and perplexed hereat,and quoth he to her, "Why make so much ado? In yonder shed are manyjars of oil: go now and take as much soever as thou listest."Morgiana gave thanks to him for his suggestion. and Abdullah,who was lying at his ease in the hall, went off to sleep so that hemight wake betimes and serve Ali Baba in the bath.So the handmaiden rose and with oil can in hand walked to the shed wherestood the leathern jars all ranged in rows. Now, as she drew nighunto one of the vessels, the thief who was hidden therein hearingthe tread of footsteps bethought him that it was of his Captainwhose summons he awaited. so he whispered,"Is it now time for us to sally forth?"Morgiana started back affrighted at the soundof human accents. but, inasmuch as she was bold and ready ofwit, she replied, "The time is not yet come," and said to herself,"These jars are not full of oil and herein I perceive a manner ofmystery. Haply the oil merchant hatcheth some treacherous plotagainst my lord. so Allah, the Compassionating, the Compassionate,protect us from his snares!"Wherefore she answered in avoice made like to the Captain's,"Not yet, the time is not come."Then she went to the next jar and returned the samereply to him who was within, and so on to all the vessels one byone. Then said she in herself,"Laud to the Lord! my mastertook this fellow in believing him to be an oil merchant, but lo, hehath admitted a band of robbers, who only await the signal to fallupon him and plunder the place and do him die."Then passed she on to the furthest jar and finding it brimming with oil, filledher can, and returning to the kitchen, trimmed the lamp and litthe wicks. then, bringing forth a large cauldron, she set it uponthe fire, and filling it with oil from out the jar heaped wood uponthe hearth and fanned it to a fierce flame the readier to boil itscontents. When this was done she baled it out in potfuls andpoured it seething hot into the leathern vessels one by one whilethe thieves unable to escape were scalded to death and every jarcontained a corpse.Thus did this slave girl by her subtle witmake a clean end of all noiselessly and unknown even to thedwellers m the house. Now when she had satisfied herself thateach and every of the men had been slain, she went back to thekitchen and shutting to the door sat brewing Ali Baba's broth.Scarce had an hour passed before the Captain woke from sleep.and, opening wide his window, saw that all was dark and silent.so he clapped his hands as a signal for his men to come forth butnot a sound was heard in return. After awhile he clapped againand called aloud but got no answer. and when he cried out a thirdtime without reply he was perplexed and went out to the shedwherein stood the jars.He thought to himself,"Perchance all are fallen asleep whenas the time for action is now at hand,so I must e'en awaken them without stay or delay."Then approachingthe nearest jar he was startled by a smell of oil and seethingflesh. and touching it outside he felt it reeking hot. then goingto the others one by one, he found all in like condition. Hereathe knew for a surety the fate which had betided his band and,fearing for his own safety, he clomb on to the wall, and thencedropping into a garden made his escape in high dudgeon and sore disappointment.Morgiana awaited awhile to see the Captainreturn from the shed but he came not. whereat she knew that hehad scaled the wall and had taken to flight, for that the street doorwas double locked. and the thieves being all disposed of on thiswise Morgiana laid her down to sleep in perfect solace and easeof mind.When two hours of darkness yet remained, Ali Babaawoke and went to the Hammam knowing naught of the night adventure,for the gallant slave girl had not aroused him, norindeed had she deemed such action expedient, because had shesought an opportunity of reporting to him her plan, she mighthaply have lost her chance and spoiled the project.The sun was high over the horizon when Ali Baba walked back from the Baths.and he marvelled exceedingly to see the jars still standing underthe shed and said, "How cometh it that he, the oil merchant myguest, hath not carried to the market his mules and jars ofoil?"Ali Baba presently asked Morgiana what had befallen the oil merchanthis guest whom he had placed under her charge. and she answered,"Allah Almighty vouchsafe to thee six score years and ten ofsafety! I will tell thee in privacy of this merchant."So Ali Baba went apart with his slave girl, who taking him without thehouse first locked the court door. then showing him a jar she said,"Prithee look into this and see if within there be oil or aught else."Thereupon peering inside it he perceived a man at which sight hecried aloud and fain would have fled in his fright.Quoth Morgiana, "Fear him not, this man hath no longer the force to work theeharm, he lieth dead and stone dead."Hearing such words of comfort and reassurance Ali Baba asked,"O Morgiana, what evilshave we escaped and by what means hath this wretch become the quarry of Fate?"She answered "Alhamdolillah   Praise be toAlmighty Allah!   I will inform thee fully of the case. but hushthee, speak not aloud, lest haply the neighbours learn the secretand it end in our confusion. Look now into all the jars, oneby one from first to last."So Ali Baba examined them severallyand found in each a man fully armed and accoutred and alllay scalded to death. Hereat speechless for sheer amazementhe stared at the jars, but presently recovering himself he asked,"And where is he, the oil merchant?"Answered she, "Of him also I will inform thee. The villain was no trader but a traitorousassassin whose honied words would have ensnared thee to thydoom. and now I will tell thee what he was and what hathhappened. but, meanwhile thou art fresh from the Hammam andthou shouldst first drink somewhat of this broth for thy stomach'sand thy health's sake."So Ali Baba went within and Morgianaserved up the mess. after which quoth her master,"I fain would hear this wondrous story: prithee tell it to me and set my heart atease."Hereat the handmaid fell to relating whatso had betidedin these words:O my master, when thou badest me boil thebroth and retiredst to rest, thy slave in obedience to thy commandtook out a suit of clean white clothes and gave it to the boyAbdullah. then kindled the fire and set on the broth. As soon asit was ready I had need to light a lamp so that I might see toskim it, but all the oil was spent, and, learning this I told my wantto the slave boy Abdullah, who advised me to draw somewhatfrom the jars which stood under the shed.Accordingly, I took acan and went to the first vessel when suddenly I heard a voicewithin whisper with all caution,"Is it now time for us to sallyforth?"I was amazed thereat and judged that the pretendedmerchant had laid some plot to slay thee. so I replied,"The time is not yet come."Then I went to the second jar and heard anothervoice to which I made the like answer, and so on with all of them.I now was certified that these men awaited only some signal fromtheir Chief whom thou didst take to guest within thy walls supposinghim to be a merchant in oil. and that after thou receivedsthim hospitably the miscreant had brought these men to murtherthee and to plunder thy good and spoil thy house. But I gavehim no opportunity to win his wish.The last jar I found full ofoil and taking somewhat therefrom I lit the lamp. then, putting alarge cauldron upon the fire, I filled it up with oil which I broughtfrom the jar and made a fierce blaze under it. and, when the contentswere seething hot, I took out sundry cansful with intent toscald them all to death, and going to each jar in due order, Ipoured within them one by one boiling oil. On this wise havingdestroyed them utterly, I returned to the kitchen and havingextinguished the lamps stood by the window watching what mighthappen, and how that false merchant would act next.Not long after I had taken my station, the robber captain awoke and ofttimessignalled to his thieves. Then getting no reply he camedownstairs and went out to the jars, and finding that all his menwere slain he fled through the darkness I know not whither.So when he had clean disappeared I was assured that, the doorbeing double locked, he had scaled the wall and dropped into thegarden and made his escape. Then with my heart at rest I slept.And Morgiana, after telling her story to her master, presently added,"This is the whole truth I have related to thee. For some daysindeed have I had inkling of such matter, but withheld it fromthee deeming it inexpedient to risk the chance of its meeting theneighbours' ears. now, however, there is no help but to tell theethereof. One day as I came to the house door I espied thereon awhite chalk mark, and on the next day a red sign beside the white.I knew not the intent wherewith the marks were made, neverthelessI set others upon the entrances of sundry neighbours,judging that some enemy had done this deed whereby to encompassmy master's destruction. Therefore I made the marks on all theother doors in such perfect conformity with those I found,that it would be hard to distinguish amongst them."Morgiana continued to Ali Baba: "Judge now and see if these signs andall this villainy be not the work of the bandits of the forest,who marked our house that on such wise they might know itagain. Of these forty thieves there yet remain two others concerningwhose case I know naught. so beware of them, butchiefly of the third remaining robber, their Captain, who fled hencealive. Take good heed and be thou cautious of him, for, shouldstthou fall into his hands, he will in no wise spare thee but willsurely murther thee. I will do all that lieth in me to savefrom hurt and harm thy life and property, nor shall thy slave befound wanting in any service to my lord."Hearing these wordsAli Baba rejoiced with exceeding joyance and said to her, "Iam well pleased with thee for this thy conduct . and say mewhat wouldst thou have me do in thy behalf. I shall not failto remember thy brave deed so long as breath in me remaineth."Quoth she, "It behoveth us before all things forthright to burythese bodies in the ground, that so the secret be not known toany one."Hereupon Ali Baba took with him his slave boyAbdullah into the garden and there under a tree they dug forthe corpses of the thieves a deep pit in size proportionate to itsconterits, and they dragged, the bodies (having carried off theirweapons) to the fosse and threw them in. then, covering upthe remains of the seven and thirty robbers they made theground appear level and clean as it wont to be. They also hid theleathern jars and the gear and arms and presently Ali Baba sentthe mules by ones and twos to the bazar and sold them allwith the able aid of his slave boy Abdullah.Thus the matter wras hushed up nor did it reach the ears of any.however, Ali Baba ceased not to be ill at ease lest haply the Captainor the surviving two robbers should wreak their vengeance on his head.He kept himself private with all caution and took heed thatnone learn a word of what had happened and of the wealthwhich he had carried off from the bandits' cave.Meanwhile the Captain of the thieves having escaped with his life, fled to theforest in hot wrath and sore irk of mind. and his senses werescattered and the colour of his visage vanished like ascendingsmoke. Then he thought the matter over again and again, andat last he firmly resolved that he needs must take the life of AliBaba, else he would lose all the treasure which his enemy, byknowledge of the magical words, would take away and turn tohis own use. Furthermore, he determined that he would undertakethe business single handed. and, that after getting rid ofAli Baba, he would gather together another band of bandittiand would pursue his career of brigandage, as indeed his forbearshad done for many generations.So he lay down to rest thatnight, and rising early in the morning donned a dress of suitableappearance. then going to the city alighted at a caravanserai,thinking to himself, "Doubtless the murther of so many men hathreached the Wali's ears, and Ali Baba hath been seized andbrought to justice, and his house is levelled and his good is confiscated.The townfolk must surely have heard tidings of thesematters."So he straightway asked of the keeper of the Khan,"What strange things have happened in the city during the lastfew days?" and the other told him all that he had seen and heard,but the Captain could not learn a whit of that which most concernedhim.Hereby he understood that Ali Baba was ware andwise, and that he had not only carried away such store of treasurebut he had also destroyed so many lives and withal had come offscatheless. furthermore, that he himself must needs have all hiswits alert not to fall into the hands of his foe and perish.With this resolve the Captain hired a shop in the Bazar, whither hebore whole bales of the finest stuffs and goodly merchandise fromhis forest treasure house. and presently he took his seat withinthe store and fell to doing merchant's business. By chance his placefronted the booth of the defunct Kasim where his son, Ali Baba'snephew, now traded. and the Captain, who called himself KhwajahHasan soon formed acquaintance and friendship with the shopkeepersaround about him and treated all with profuse civilities,but he was especially gracious and cordial to the son of Kasim,a handsome youth and a well dressed, and ofttimes he wouldsit and chat with him for a long while.A few days after it chanced that Ali Baba, as he was sometime wont to do, cameto see his nephew, whom he found sitting in his shop.The Captain saw and recognised him at sight and one morning he askedthe young man, saying, "Prithee tell me, who is he that ever andanon cometh to thee at thy place of sale?" whereto the youth madeanswer, "He is my uncle, the brother of my father."Whereupon the Captain showed him yet greater favour and affection the better todeceive him for his own devices, and gave him presents and madehim sit at meat with him and fed him with the daintiest of dishes.Presently Ali Baba's nephew bethought him it was only right andproper that he also should invite the merchant to supper, butwhereas his own house was small, and he was straitened for roomand could not make a show of splendour, as did KhwajahHasan, he took counsel with his uncle on the matter.Ali Baba replied to his nephew:"Thou sayest well: it behoveth theeto entreat thy friend in fairest fashion even as he hath entreatedthee. On the morrow, which is Friday, shut thy shop as do all merchantsof repute. then, after the early meal, take KhwajahHasan to smell the air,and as thou walkest lead him hitherunawares. meanwhile I will give orders that Morgiana shall makeready for his coming the best of viands and all necessaries for afeast. Trouble not thyself on any wise, but leave the matterin my hands."Accordingly on the next day, to wit, Friday,the nephew of Ali Baba took Khwajah Hasan to walk about thegarden. and, as they were returning he led him by the streetwherein his uncle dwelt.When they came to the house, theyouth stopped at the door and knocking said,"O my lord, this is my second home: my uncle hath heard much of thee and ofthy goodness mewards and desireth with exceeding desire tosee thee. so, shouldst thou consent to enter and visit him, I shallbe truly glad and thankful to thee."Albeit Khwajah Hasanrejoiced in heart that he had thus found means whereby he mighthave access to his enemy's house and household, and although hehoped soon to attain his end by treachery, yet he hesitated toenter in and stood to make his excuses and walk away. Butwhen the door was opened by the slave porter, Ali Baba's nephewseized his companion's hand and after abundant persuasion ledhim in, whereat he entered with great show of cheerfulness asthough much pleased and honoured.The housemaster receivedhim with all favour and worship and asked him of his welfare, andsaid to him, "O my lord, I am obliged and thankful to thee forthat thou hast shewn favour to the son of my brother and I perceivethat thou regardest him with an affection even fonder than my own."Khwajah Hasan replied with pleasant words and said, "Thynephew vastly taketh my fancy and in him I am well pleased,for that although young in years yet he hath been endued by Allahwith much of wisdom."Thus they twain conversed with friendly conversation and presently the guest rose to depart and said,"O my lord, thy slave must now farewell thee. but on some futureday Inshallah he will again wait upon thee,"Ali Baba, however, would not let him leave and asked,"Whither wendest thou, my friend ? I would invite thee to my table and I pray theesit at meat with us and after hie thee home in peace. Perchancethe dishes are not as delicate as those whereof thou art wontto eat, still deign grant me this request I pray thee and refreshthyself with my victual."Quoth Khwajah Hasan, "O my lord I am beholden to thee for thy gracious invitation, and withpleasure would I sit at meat with thee, but for a special reasonmust I needs excuse myself. suffer me therefore to depart for Imay not tarry longer nor accept thy gracious offer."Hereto the host made reply,"I pray thee, O my lord, tell me what may bethe reason so urgent and weighty?"And Khwajah Hasananswered, "The cause is this: I must not, by order of the physician,who cured me lately of my complaint, eat aught of food preparedwith salt."Quoth Ali Baba,"An this be all, deprive me not,I pray thee, of the honour thy company will confer upon me: asthe meats are not yet cooked, I will forbid the kitchener to makeuse of any salt. Tarry here awhile and I will return anon tothee."So saying Ali Baba went in to Morgiana and bade her notput salt into any one of the dishes. and she, while busied withher cooking, fell to marvelling greatly at such order and askedher master, "Who is he that eateth meat wherein is no salt?"He answered, "What to thee mattereth it who he may be? Onlydo thou my bidding."She rejoined, "'Tis well: all shall be asthou wishest." but in mind she wondered at the man who madesuch strange request and desired much to look upon him.Wherefore, when all the meats were ready for serving up, shehelped the slave boy Abdullah to spread the table and set onthe meal. and no sooner did she see Khwajah Hasan than sheknew who he was, albeit he had disguised himself in the dressof a stranger merchant. furthermore, when she eyed him attentivelyshe espied a dagger hidden under his robe."So ho!"quoth she to herself, "this is the cause why the villain eatethnot of salt, for that he seeketh an opportunity to slay my masterwhose mortal enemy he is. howbeit I will be beforehand withhim and despatch him ere he find a chance to harm my lord."Morgiana, having spread a white cloth upon the table and servedup the meal, went back to the kitchen and thought out her plotagainst the robber Captain.Now when Ali Baba and KhwajahHasan had eaten their sufficiency, the slave boy Abdullah broughtMorgiana word to serve the dessert, and she cleared the table andset on fruit fresh and dried in salvers, then she placed by the sideof Ali Baba a small tripod for three cups with a flagon of wine, andlastly she went off with the slave boy Abdullah into another room,as though she would herself eat supper.Then Khwajah Hasan, thatis, the Captain of the robbers, perceiving that the coast wasclear, exulted mightily saying to himself,"The time hath come for me to take full vengeance.with one thrust of my dagger I willdespatch this fellow, then escape across the garden and wend myways. His nephew will not adventure to stay my hand, for an hedo but move a finger or toe with that intent another stab will settlehis earthly account. Still must I wait awhile until the slave boyand the cook maid shall have eaten and lain down to rest them inthe kitchen."Morgiana, however, watched him wistfully and divining his purpose said in her mind,"I must not allow this villain advantage over my lord, but by some means I must make void hisproject and at once put an end to the life of him."Accordingly, the trusty slave girl changed her dress with all haste and donnedsuch clothes as dancers wear. she veiled her face with a costlykerchief. around her head she bound a fine turband, and about hermiddle she tied a waist cloth worked with gold and silver whereinshe stuck a dagger, whose hilt was rich in filigree and jewelry.Thus disguised she said to the slave boy Abdullah,"Take now thy tambourine that we may play and sing and dance in honour of ourmaster's guest."So he did her bidding and the twain went intothe room, the lad playing and the lass following. Then, making alow congee, they asked leave to perform and disport and play. andAli Baba gave permission, saying,"Dance now and do your bestthat this our guest may be mirthful and merry."Quoth Khwajah Hasan, "O my lord, thou dost indeed provide much pleasant entertainment."Then the slave boy Abdullah standing by began to strikethe tambourine whilst Morgiana rose up and showed her perfectart and pleased them vastly with graceful steps and sportive motion.and suddenly drawing the poniard from her belt she brandishedit and paced from side to side, a spectacle which pleased themmost of all. At times also she stood before them, now clappingthe sharp edged dagger under her armpit and then setting itagainst her breast. Lastly she took the tambourine from theslave boy Abdullah, and still holding the poniard in her right shewent round for largesse as is the custom amongst merry makers.First she stood before Ali Baba who threw a gold coin into the tambourine,and his nephew likewise put in an Ashrafi. then KhwajahHasan, seeing her about to approach him, fell to pulling out hispurse, when she heartened her heart and quick as the blindingleven she plunged the dagger into his vitals, and forthwith themiscreant fell back stone dead.Ali Baba was dismayed and cried in his wrath,"O unhappy, what is this deed thou hast done tobring about my ruin!"But she replied, "Nay, O my lord, rather to save thee andnot to cause thee harm have I slain thisman: loosen his garments and see what thou wilt discover thereunder."So Ali Baba searched the dead man's dress and foundconcealed therein a dagger.Then said Morgiana, "This wretch was thy deadly enemy.Consider him well: he is none otherthan the oil merchant, the Captain of the band of robbers.Whenas he came hither with intent to take thy life, he would noteat thy salt. and when thou toldest me that he wished not any inthe meat I suspected him and at first sight I was assured that hewould surely do thee die. Almighty Allah be praised 'tis even asI thought."Then Ali Babi lavished upon her thanks and expressionsof gratitude, saying, "Lo, these two times hast thou savedme from his hand," and falling upon her neck he cried,"See thou art free, and as reward for this thy fealty I have wedded thee tomy nephew."Then turning to the youth he said,"Do as I bid thee and thou shalt prosper. I would that thou marry Morgiana, whois a model of duty and loyalty: thou seest now yon KhwajahHasan sought thy friendship only that he might find opportunityto take my life, but this maiden with her good sense and herwisdom hath slain him and saved us."Ali Baba's nephew straightway consented to marry Morgiana. Afterwhich the three, raising the dead body bore it forth with all heedand vigilance and privily buried it in the garden, and for manyyears no one knew aught thereof.In due time Ali Baba married hisbrother's son to Morgiana with great pomp, and spread a bride feastin most sumptuous fashion for his friends and neighbours, and mademerry with them and enjoyed singing and all manner of dancingand amusements. He prospered in every undertaking and Timesmiled upon him and a new source of wealth was opened to him. Forfear of the thieves he had not once visited the jungle cave whereinlay the treasure, since the day he had carried forth the corpse ofhis brother Kasim. But some time after, he mounted his hackneyone morning and journeyed thither, with all care and caution, tillfinding no signs of man or horse, and reassured in his mind heventured to draw near the door.Then alighting from his beast hetied it up to a tree, and going to the entrance pronounced thewords which he had not forgotten,"Open, O Simsim!"Hereat, as was its wont, the door flew open, and entering thereby he sawthe goods and hoard of gold and silver untouched and lying as hehad left them. So he felt assured that not one of all the thievesremained alive, and, that save himself there was not a soul whoknew the secret of the place. At once he bound in his saddleclotha load of Ashrafis such as his horse could bear and brought ithome. and in after days he showed the hoard to his sons and sons'sons and taught them how the door could be caused to open andshut.Thus Ali Baba and his household lived all their lives in wealthand joyance in that city where erst he had been a pauper, and bythe blessing of that secret treasure he rose to high degree anddignities.