Once upon a time a man and a woman were going to sow, but they had no seed corn and no money to buy any with either. They had only one cow and this the man was to go to town with and sell to get money for the seed corn.But when the time came the wife would not let the man go, for she was afraid he would spend the money on drink. So she set off herself with the cow and took with her a hen as well.Close to the town she met a butcher."Are you going to sell that cow, mother?" he asked."Yes, that I am," she said."How much do you want for it then?""I suppose I must have a shilling for the cow, but the hen you can have for two pounds," she said."Well," said the butcher, "I haven't any use for the hen, and you can easily get rid of that when you get to the town, but I'll give you a shilling for the cow."She sold the cow and got her shilling, but nobody in the town would give two pounds for a tough, old hen.So she went back to the butcher and said, "I can't get rid of this hen, father. You'll have to take that as well since you took the cow.""We'll soon settle that," said the butcher, and asked her to sit down. He gave her something to eat and so much brandy to drink that she became tipsy and lost her wits. While she slept it off the butcher dipped her into a barrel of tar and then put her in a heap of feathers.When she woke up she found that she was feathered all over and she began to wonder, "Is it me? or is it not me? It must be a strange bird! But what shall I do to find out whether it is me, or whether it isn't me? Now I know   if the calves will lick me and the dog doesn't bark at me, when I get home, then it is me."The dog no sooner saw such a monster than it began barking with all its might as if there were thieves and vagabonds about the place."No, surely, it cannot be me," she said.When she came to the cowhouse the calves would not lick her, because they smelt the tar."No, it cannot be me. it must be a strange bird," she said. and then she climbed up on top of the storehouse and began to flap with her arms as if she had wings and wanted to fly. When the man saw this he came out with his rifle and took aim at her."Don't shoot, don't shoot," cried his wife." it is me."Is it you?" said the man. "Then don't stand there like a goat, but come down and tell me what you have been about."She climbed down again, but found she had not a single penny left, for the shilling she got from the butcher she had lost while she was tipsy.When the man heard this he said, "You are more mad than ever you were," and he became so angry that he said he would go away from everything and never come back if he did not find three women who were just as mad.He set out and when he had got a bit on the way he saw a woman running in and out of a newly built hut with an empty sieve. Every time she ran in she threw her apron over the sieve, as if she had something it, and then she turned it over on the floor."What are you doing that for, mother?" asked he."Oh, I only want to carry in a little sun," she answered. "but I don't know how it is, when I am outside I have the sun in the sieve, but when I get inside I have lost it. When I was in my old hut I had plenty of sun, although I never carried in any. If anyone could get me some sun I'd willingly give him three hundred dollars.""Have you an axe?" said the man, "and I'll soon get you some sun."He got an axe and cut out the openings for the windows which the carpenters had forgotten to do. The sun shone into the room at once and he got his three hundred dollars."That was one of them!" thought the man, and set out again.In a while he came to a house where there was a terrible screaming and shouting going on. He went in and saw a woman, who was beating her husband on the head with a bat. and over his head she had pulled a shirt in which there was no hole for the neck."Do you want to kill your husband, mother?" he asked."No," she said, "I only want to make a hole for the neck in his shirt."The man moaned and groaned and said, "Oh dear, oh dear! I pity those who have to try on new shirts. If any one could teach my wife how to make the hole for the neck in a different way, I'd willingly give him three hundred dollars.""I'll soon do that," said the man. "only let me have a pair of scissors."He got a pair and cut the hole, and then he took his money and went his way."That was the second of them!" he said to himself.After a long while he came to a farm, where he thought he would rest awhile, so he went in."Where do you come from?" asked the woman."I come from Ringerige (a district in the south of Norway)," answered the man."Oh dear, oh dear! Are you from Himmerige (heaven)? Then you must know Peter, my second husband, poor soul!" said the woman.She had been married three times. the first and the last husbands were bad men, so she thought that the second, who had been a good husband, was the only one likely to go to heaven."Yes, I know him well," said the man. "How is it with him there?" asked the woman."Oh, things are rather bad with him," said the man."He knocks about from place to place, and has neither food nor clothes to his back, and as for money   ""Goodness gracious!" cried the woman, "there's no need that he should go about in such a plight   he that left so much behind him. Here is a large loft full of clothes, which belonged to him, as well as a big chest of money. If you'll take it all with you you shall have the horse and trap to take it in. and he can keep both horse and trap, so that he can drive about from place to place. for he has no need to walk, I'm sure."The man got a whole cartload of clothes and a chest full of bright silver dollars, and as much food and drink as he wanted. When he had finished he got into the trap and drove off."That's the third of them!" he said to himself.But the woman's third husband was over in a field plowing, and when he saw a stranger driving off with the horse and trap, he went home and asked his wife who it was who drove away with the horse."Oh," she said, "that was a man from heaven. he said that Peter, my second, poor dear soul, is so badly off that he walks about there from place to place, and has neither clothes nor money. so I sent him all his old clothes, which have been hanging here ever since, and the old money chest with the silver dollars."The man understood at once what all this meant, and saddled a horse and set off at full gallop.Before long he was close behind the man in the trap. who when he discovered he was pursued, drove the horse and trap into a thick part of the wood, pulled a handful of hair out of the horse's tail, and sprang up a hill, where he tied the horse's hair to a birch tree, and lay down on his back under it, gaping and staring up into the clouds."Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear!" he said, as if talking to himself, when the woman's third husband came riding up. "Well, I've never seen anything so wonderful! I've never seen the like of it!"The husband stopped and looked at him for a while and wondered if the man was crazy, or what he was up to.At last he asked him, "What are you staring at?""Well, I never saw the like!" exclaimed the man. "I've just seen someone driving straight into heaven, horse and all! There, you see part of the horse's tail hanging on the birch tree, and up among the clouds you can see the horse."The husband looked up at the clouds and then at him and said, "I don't see anything but the horse hair on the birch tree.""No, of course you can't see it, where you stand," said the man, "but come and lie down here and look straight up. you must not take your eyes away from the clouds."While the husband lay staring into the sky till the water ran from his eyes, the man jumped on the horse and set off, both with that and the horse and trap.When the husband heard the rumbling noise on the road, he jumped up, but was so bewildered because the man had gone off with his horses that he did not think of setting after him till it was too late.He did not feel very proud, as you can imagine, when he came home to his wife, and when she asked him what he had done with the horse he said, "Oh, I told the man he could take that with him as well to Peter, for I did not think it was right that he should jolt about in a trap up there. now he can sell the trap and buy a carriage.""Oh, thank you for that! Never did I think you were such a kind husband," said the woman.When the man who had got the six hundred dollars and the cartload of clothes and money, came home, he saw that all the fields were plowed and sown.The first thing he asked his wife was, where she had got the seed corn from."Oh," said she, "I have always heard, that he who sows something gets something. So I sowed the salt which the carrier left here the other day, and if we only get rain soon, I think it will grow up nicely.""Mad you are, and mad you'll be as long as you live," said the man. "but it doesn't much matter, for the others are no better than you."