Once on a time there was a man, and he had a wife. Now this couplewanted to sow their fields, but they had neitherseed corn nor money to buy it with. But they had a cow, and the man was todrive it into town and sell it to get money tobuy corn for seed. But when it came to the pinch, the wife dared not lether husband start, for fear he should spend themoney in drink, so she set off herself with the cow, and took besides ahen with her.Close by the town she met a butcher, who asked, "Will you sell thatcow, mother?""Yes, that I will," she answered."Well, what do you want for her?""Oh! I must have five shillings for the cow, but you shall have the henfor ten pound.""Very good!" said the man. "I don't want the hen, and you'll soon getit off your hands in the town. but I'll give you fiveshillings for the cow."Well, she sold her cow for five shillings, but there was no one in thetown who would give ten pound for a lean toughold hen, so she went back to the butcher, and said, "Do all I can, I can'tget rid of this hen, master! You must take it too, asyou took the cow.""Well," said the butcher, "come along and we'll see about it." Then hetreated her both with meat and drink, and gaveher so much brandy that she lost her head, and didn't know what she wasabout, and fell fast asleep. But while she slept, thebutcher took and dipped her into a tar barrel, and then laid her down on aheap of feathers. and when she woke up she wasfeathered all over, and began to wonder what had befallen her."Is it me, or is it not me? No, it can never be me. It must be somegreat strange bird. But what shall I do to find outwhether it is me or not? Oh! I know how I shall be able to tell whether itis me. If the calves come and lick me, and our dogTray doesn't bark at me when I get home, then it must be me and no oneelse."Now, Tray, her dog, had scarce set his eyes on the strange monsterwhich came through the gate, than he set up such abarking, one would have thought all the rogues and robbers in the worldwere in the yard."Ah! deary me!" said she, "I thought so. It can't be me surely."So she went to the straw yard, and the calves wouldn't lick her, whenthey snuffed in the strong smell of tar. "No, no!"she said. "It can't be me. It must be some strange outlandish bird."So she crept up on the roof of the safe (storehouse) and began to flapher arms, as if they had been wings, and was just going to fly off.When her husband saw all this, out he came with his rifle, and began totake aim at her."Oh!" cried his wife, "don't shoot, don't shoot! It is only me.""If it's you," said her husband, "don't stand up there like a goat on ahouse top, but come down and let me hear what you have to say for yourself."So she crawled down again, but she hadn't a shilling to show, for thecrown she had got from the butcher she had thrown away in her drunkenness. When her husband heard her story, he said "You're only twice as sillyas you were before," and he got so angry that hemade up his mind to go away from her altogether, and never to come backtill he had found three other goodies (women) as silly as his own.So he toddled off, and when he had walked a little way he saw a goody,who was running in and out of anewly built wooden cottage with an empty sieve, and every time she ran inshe threw her apron over the sieve, just as if shehad something in it, and when she got in she turned it upside down on thefloor."Why, goody!" he asked, "what are you doing?""Oh," she answered, "I'm only carrying in a little sun. but I don'tknow how it is, when I'm outside I have the sun in mysieve, but when I get inside, somehow or other I've thrown it away. But inmy old cottage I had plenty of sun, though I nevercarried in the least bit. I only wish I knew some one who would bring thesun inside. I'd give him three hundred dollars andwelcome.""Have you got an ax?" asked the man. "If you have, I'll soon bring thesun inside."So he got an ax and cut windows in the cottage, for the carpenters hadforgotten them. Then the sun shone in, and hegot his three hundred dollars."That was one of them," said the man to himself, as he went on hisway.After a while he passed by a house, out of which came an awfulscreaming and bellowing. so he turned in and saw agoody, who was hard at work banging her husband across the head with abeetle (wooden pestle), and over his head shehad drawn a shirt without any slit for the neck."Why, goody!" he asked, "will you beat your husband to death?""No," she said, "I only must have a hole in this shirt for his neck tocome through."All the while the husband kept on screaming and calling out, "Heavenhelp and comfort all who try on new shirts! Ifanyone would teach my goody another way of making a slit for the neck inmy new shirts I'd give him three hundred dollars down, and welcome.""I'll do it in the twinkling of an eye," said the man, "if you'll onlygive me a pair of scissors."So he got a pair of scissors, and snipped a hole in the neck, and wentoff with his three hundred dollars."That was another of them," he said to himself, as he walked along.Last of all, he came to a farm, where he made up his mind to rest abit. So when he went in, the mistress asked him,"Whence do you come, master?""Oh!" said he, "I come from Paradise Place," for that was the name ofhis farm."From Paradise Place! " she cried, "you don't say so. Why, then, youmust know my second husband Peter, who isdead and gone, God rest his soul!" For you must know this goody had beenmarried three times, and as her first and lasthusbands had been bad, she had made up her mind that the second only wasgone to heaven."Oh! yes," said the man. "I know him very well.""Well," asked the goody, "how do things go with him, poor dearsoul?""Only middling," was the answer. "he goes about begging from house tohouse, and has neither food nor a rag to hisback. As for money, he hasn't a sixpence to bless himself with.""Mercy on me!" cried out the goody. "he never ought to go about such afigure when he left so much behind him. Why,there's a whole cupboard full of old clothes upstairs which belonged tohim, besides a great chest full of money yonder.Now, if you will take them with you, you shall have a horse and cart tocarry them. As for the horse, he can keep it, and siton the cart, and drive about from house to house, and then he needn'ttrudge on foot."So the man got a whole cart load of clothes, and a chest full ofshining dollars, and as much meat and drink as hewould. and when he had got all he wanted, he jumped into the cart anddrove off."That was the third," he said to himself, as he went along.Now this goody's third husband was a little way off in a field plowing,and when he saw a strange man driving off fromthe farm with his horse and cart, he went home and asked his wife who thatwas that had just started with the black horse."Oh, do you mean him?" said the goody. "why, that was a man fromparadise, who said that Peter, my dear secondhusband, who is dead and gone, is in a sad plight, and that he goes fromhouse to house begging, and has neither clothes normoney. so I just sent him all those old clothes he left behind him, andthe old money box with the dollars in it."The man saw how the land lay in a trice, so he saddled his horse androde off from the farm at full gallop. It wasn't longbefore he was close behind the man who sat and drove the cart. but whenthe latter saw this he drove the cart into a thicketby the side of the road, pulled out a handful of hair from the horse'stail, jumped up on a little rise in the wood, where he tiedthe hair fast to a birch, and then lay down under it, and began topeer and stare up at the sky."Well, well, if I ever! " he said, as Peter the third came riding up."No! I never saw the like of this in all my borndays!"Then Peter stood and looked at him for some time, wondering what hadcome over him. but at last he asked, "What do you lie there staring at?""No," kept on the man, "I never did see anything like it! Here is a mangoing straight up to heaven on a black horse, andhere you see his horse's tail still hanging in this birch. and yonder upin the sky you see the black horse."Peter looked first at the man, and then at the sky, and said, "I seenothing but the horse hair in the birch. that's all I see.""Of course you can't where you stand," said the man. "but just come andlie down here, and stare straight up, and mindyou don't take your eyes off the sky. and then you shall see what youshall see."But while Peter the third lay and stared up at the sky till his eyesfilled with tears, the man from Paradise Place took hishorse and jumped on its back, and rode off both with it and the cart andhorse.When the hoofs thundered along the road, Peter the third jumped up, buthe was so taken aback when he found theman had gone off with his horse, that he hadn't the sense to run after himtill it was too late.He was rather down in the mouth when he got home to his goody. but whenshe asked him what he had done with thehorse, he said, "I gave it to the man too for Peter the second, for Ithought it wasn't right he should sit in a cart and scrambleabout from house to house. so now he can sell the cart and buy himself acoach to drive about in.""Thank you heartily!" said his wife. "I never thought you could be sokind."Well, when the man reached home, who had got the six hundred dollarsand the cart load of clothes and money, he sawthat all his fields were ploughed and sown, and the first thing he askedhis wife was, where she had got the seed corn from."Oh," she said, "I have always heard that what a man sows he shallreap, so I sowed the salt which our friends the northcountry men laid up here with us, and if we only have rain I fancy it willcome up nicely.""You are crazy," said her husband, "and crazy you will be so long asyou live. But that is all one now, for the others arenot a bit better than you."