Many years ago there lived a King, who was twice married. His firstwife, a good and beautiful woman, died at the birth of her little son,and the King her husband was so overwhelmed with grief at her loss thathis only comfort was in the sight of his heir.When the time for the young Prince's christening came the King choseas godmother a neighbouring Princess, so celebrated for her wisdom andgoodness that she was commonly called 'the Good Queen.' She named thebaby Alphege, and from that moment took him to her heart.Time wipes away the greatest griefs, and after two or three years theKing married again. His second wife was a Princess of undeniable beauty,but by no means of so amiable a disposition as the first Queen. In duetime a second Prince was born, and the Queen was devoured with rage atthe thought that Prince Alphege came between her son and the throne. Shetook care however to conceal her jealous feelings from the King.At length she could control herself no longer, so she sent a trustyservant to her old and faithful friend the Fairy of the Mountain, to begher to devise some means by which she might get rid of her stepson.The Fairy replied that, much as she desired to be agreeable to the Queenin every way, it was impossible for her to attempt anything against theyoung Prince, who was under the protection of some greater Power thanher own.The 'Good Queen' on her side watched carefully over her godson. She wasobliged to do so from a distance, her own country being a remote one,but she was well informed of all that went on and knew all about theQueen's wicked designs. She therefore sent the Prince a large andsplendid ruby, with injunctions to wear it night and day as it wouldprotect him from all attacks, but added that the talisman only retainedits power as long as the Prince remained within his father's dominions.The Wicked Queen knowing this made every attempt to get the Prince outof the country, but her efforts failed, till one day accident did whatshe was unable to accomplish.The King had an only sister who was deeply attached to him, and who wasmarried to the sovereign of a distant country. She had always kept upa close correspondence with her brother, and the accounts she heard ofPrince Alphege made her long to become acquainted with so charming anephew. She entreated the King to allow the Prince to visit her, andafter some hesitation which was overruled by his wife, he finallyconsented.Prince Alphege was at this time fourteen years old, and the handsomestand most engaging youth imaginable. In his infancy he had been placedin the charge of one of the great ladies of the Court, who, accordingto the prevailing custom, acted first as his head nurse and then as hisgoverness. When he outgrew her care her husband was appointed as histutor and governor, so that he had never been separated from thisexcellent couple, who loved him as tenderly as they did their onlydaughter Zayda, and were warmly loved by him in return.When the Prince set forth on his travels it was but natural that thisdevoted couple should accompany him, and accordingly he started withthem and attended by a numerous retinue.For some time he travelled through his father's dominions and all wentwell. but soon after passing the frontier they had to cross a desertplain under a burning sun. They were glad to take shelter under a groupof trees near, and here the Prince complained of burning thirst. Luckilya tiny stream ran close by and some water was soon procured, but nosooner had he tasted it than he sprang from his carriage and disappearedin a moment. In vain did his anxious followers seek for him, he wasnowhere to be found.As they were hunting and shouting through the trees a black monkeysuddenly appeared on a point of rock and said: 'Poor sorrowing people,you are seeking your Prince in vain. Return to your own country and knowthat he will not be restored to you till you have for some time failedto recognise him.'With these words he vanished, leaving the courtiers sadly perplexed. butas all their efforts to find the Prince were useless they had no choicebut to go home, bringing with them the sad news, which so greatlydistressed the King that he fell ill and died not long after.The Queen, whose ambition was boundless, was delighted to see the crownon her son's head and to have the power in her own hands. Her hard rulemade her very unpopular, and it was commonly believed that she hadmade away with Prince Alphege. Indeed, had the King her son not beendeservedly beloved a revolution would certainly have arisen.Meantime the former governess of the unfortunate Alphege, who had losther husband soon after the King's death, retired to her own house withher daughter, who grew up a lovely and most loveable girl, and bothcontinued to mourn the loss of their dear Prince.The young King was devoted to hunting, and often indulged in hisfavourite pastime, attended by the noblest youths in his kingdom.One day, after a long morning's chase he stopped to rest near a brook inthe shade of a little wood, where a splendid tent had been preparedfor him. Whilst at luncheon he suddenly spied a little monkey of thebrightest green sitting on a tree and gazing so tenderly at him thathe felt quite moved. He forbade his courtiers to frighten it, and themonkey, noticing how much attention was being paid him, sprang frombough to bough, and at length gradually approached the King, who offeredhim some food. The monkey took it very daintily and finally came to thetable. The King took him on his knees, and, delighted with his capture,brought him home with him. He would trust no one else with its care, andthe whole Court soon talked of nothing but the pretty green monkey.One morning, as Prince Alphege's governess and her daughter were alonetogether, the little monkey sprang in through an open window. He hadescaped from the palace, and his manners were so gentle and caressingthat Zayda and her mother soon got over the first fright he had giventhem. He had spent some time with them and quite won their hearts byhis insinuating ways, when the King discovered where he was and sent tofetch him back. But the monkey made such piteous cries, and seemed sounhappy when anyone attempted to catch him, that the two ladies beggedthe King to leave him a little longer with them, to which he consented.One evening, as they sat by the fountain in the garden, the littlemonkey kept gazing at Zayda with such sad and loving eyes that she andher mother could not think what to make of it, and they were still moresurprised when they saw big tears rolling down his cheeks.Next day both mother and daughter were sitting in a jessamine bower inthe garden, and they began to talk of the green monkey and his strangeways. The mother said, 'My dear child, I can no longer hide my feelingsfrom you. I cannot get the thought out of my mind that the green monkeyis no other than our beloved Prince Alphege, transformed in this strangefashion. I know the idea sounds wild, but I cannot get it out of myheart, and it leaves me no peace.'As she spoke she glanced up, and there sat the little monkey, whosetears and gestures seemed to confirm her words.The following night the elder lady dreamt that she saw the Good Queen,who said, 'Do not weep any longer but follow my directions. Go intoyour garden and lift up the little marble slab at the foot of the greatmyrtle tree. You will find beneath it a crystal vase filled with abright green liquid. Take it with you and place the thing which is atpresent most in your thoughts into a bath filled with roses and rub itwell with the green liquid.'At these words the sleeper awoke, and lost no time in rising andhurrying to the garden, where she found all as the Good Queen haddescribed. Then she hastened to rouse her daughter and together theyprepared the bath, for they would not let their women know what theywere about. Zayda gathered quantities of roses, and when all was readythey put the monkey into a large jasper bath, where the mother rubbedhim all over with the green liquid.Their suspense was not long, for suddenly the monkey skin dropped off,and there stood Prince Alphege, the handsomest and most charming ofmen. The joy of such a meeting was beyond words. After a time the ladiesbegged the Prince to relate his adventures, and he told them of all hissufferings in the desert when he was first transformed. His only comforthad been in visits from the Good Queen, who had at length put him in theway of meeting his brother.Several days were spent in these interesting conversations, but atlength Zayda's mother began to think of the best means for placing thePrince on the throne, which was his by right.The Queen on her side was feeling very anxious. She had felt sure fromthe first that her son's pet monkey was no other than Prince Alphege,and she longed to put an end to him. Her suspicions were confirmed bythe Fairy of the Mountain, and she hastened in tears to the King, herson.'I am informed,' she cried, 'that some ill disposed people have raisedup an impostor in the hopes of dethroning you. You must at once have himput to death.'The King, who was very brave, assured the Queen that he would soonpunish the conspirators. He made careful inquiries into the matter, andthought it hardly probable that a quiet widow and a young girl wouldthink of attempting anything of the nature of a revolution.He determined to go and see them, and to find out the truth for himself.so one night, without saying anything to the Queen or his ministers, heset out for the palace where the two ladies lived, attended only by asmall band of followers.The two ladies were at the moment deep in conversation with PrinceAlphege, and hearing a knocking so late at night begged him to keep outof sight for a time. What was their surprise when the door was opened tosee the King and his suite.'I know,' said the King, 'that you are plotting against my crown andperson, and I have come to have an explanation with you.'As she was about to answer Prince Alphege, who had heard all, cameforward and said, 'It is from me you must ask an explanation, brother.'He spoke with such grace and dignity that everyone gazed at him withmute surprise.At length the King, recovering from his astonishment at recognising thebrother who had been lost some years before, exclaimed, 'Yes, you areindeed my brother, and now that I have found you, take the throne towhich I have no longer a right.' So saying, he respectfully kissed thePrince's hand.Alphege threw himself into his arms, and the brothers hastened to theroyal palace, where in the presence of the entire court he receivedthe crown from his brother's hand. To clear away any possible doubt, heshowed the ruby which the Good Queen had given him in his childhood. Asthey were gazing at it, it suddenly split with a loud noise, and at thesame moment the Wicked Queen expired.King Alphege lost no time in marrying his dear and lovely Zayda, andhis joy was complete when the Good Queen appeared at his wedding. Sheassured him that the Fairy of the Mountain had henceforth lost allpower over him, and after spending some time with the young couple,and bestowing the most costly presents on them, she retired to her owncountry.King Alphege insisted on his brother sharing his throne, and they alllived to a good old age, universally beloved and admired.