It was on a hot summer day in the year 1874 at WaWa Springs in the state of Utah.The springs being an oasis in the desert and nothing only sage and bunches of grass and hot sand it was here in a little lumber shack on their homestead Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Squires lived with their 3 small daighters. They owned horses and cattle and Mr. Squires had 2 or 3 men hired to help take care of these.And it was on this day in 1874 they had gon on around up leaving Mrs. Squires and the children a alone and they were miles from any one else and her husband had told her he would be back at a sertain time and to have dinner ready for them. And from the house they could see for miles in any direction.And it being about time for them to come she went to the spring for water and look in ever derection to see if they were comming but there was nothing in sight and she took the water in and set it down and turned around and there to her amazement was a man standing in the door and he ask her if she would kindly give him a bit to eat and altho she was frightened she set the table it was humble but good meal.I remember there was cheese bread butter cold milk and an apple pie and she told him to eat he was welcome and he did eat as though he was hungry. And while eating he conversed with her and said Sister you are not well and she said No I have had apain in under my shoulder. Which bothered me a great deal and he said that is your liver but you wont be bothered any more with that. Then he got up and started off and thanked her for her kindness and fine meal and said Got bless you sister You will never want for any thing you will always be blessed with plenty and he left. As soon as she thought he had had time to turn the corner of the house she went out to see in what direction he had gon and there was no sighn of him any where. This worried her more than ever. She went back in the house and to her suprize the table was just as she had set it And she had seen him eat and drink the milk. But it was there and she then thought how he looked and he was dressed so neet and his eyes were so bright and just twinkled when he talked and he had long white beard his hair was gray.She was still worring when her husband and the men came and she ask them if they had seen him but they hadent. She told them the story but she couldent get it off her mind and it went on for about 3 moths and her Mother Mrs. Abigal Abbott came to make her a visit and she told her the story and she smiled and said Why Lyda hove you forgote your Patriochal Blessing. You was promised that one of the Three Nephits would dine at your table thats who it was.Well, she never had any more trouble with her liver lived a good old age and always had plenty and her husband died first and when she died she left a good start to her children and we have right here in our town a family of grand children there mother being a daughter. And dieng before her mother her children got her share and it set them all up in business.When she died she was 89 years oldThis story was told to me by my mother it was her fathers sister and she heard her tell it and also Mr Bowman he is the father of the family here in our town a son in law of Mrs Squires. A he also tell the same story.This story was written in 1943 by Mrs. Elsina Robison, Bunkerville, Nevada. (Her age was about fifty.) It is reproduced here exactly as the informant wrote it.