In the month of November 1867, my parents, William H. and Mary Laidlaw Seegmiller, were married in Salt Lake City. My father and mother were among a number of L.D.S. people who received calls to colonize the southeastern part of Nevada. The group settled on what was known as the Muddy River, in a place called St. Joseph, in the Moapa Valley, Nevada.Late one afternoon while my father was just outside their tent home chopping wood, he was approached by a rather distinguished looking person of Jewish type, having a large Roman nose, who accosted father in the German language, father's parents being German, that language, as well as English, was familiar to him. The visitor asked for something to eat to take along in his bag that he carried across his shoulder, and also for some patches of cloth with which to mend his clothes.Father told the man they had not yet eaten their evening meal and for him to come in the tent and rest and mother would prepare supper and they would all eat together. To this the man replied he did not have to to stop and would prefer to have some food just to take along with him. Father asked him where he was going. He pointed to the southwest. Father then warned him not to go in that direction as it was barren desert and no water within sixty miles. To this the man replied, "I have traveled in the north, south, east and west, in heat and in cold, and I have no fear of suffering from thirst." Father then asked him his name, to which he replied, "They call me the Wandering Jew."The stranger was given the things he asked for and father stepped into the tent. Mother said, "Don't let that man start over the desert this late in the day." So father hurried out to call him back to spend the night with them. The road stretched out for miles without obstruction, but the man could not be seen. A neighbor, Brother Fairbanks, had also seen the man as he approached my parents' tent, but had no conversation with him.Father and mother always thought their visitor was John the Beloved, or one of the three Nephites, who had been promised by the Savior to tarry upon the earth until He returns again. William A. Seegmiller.Published in Heart Throbs of the West , vol. 3 (1947), pp. 351 52.Compare with the published version: Austin E. Fife, Journal of American Folklore , vol. 53 (1940), pp. 30 31 . Another published version: Austin E. Fife, California Folklore Quarlerly , vol. 1, no. 1 (April 1942), pp. 124 25 .