An old witch, in days of yore, lived in this neighborhood. and whenevershe wanted money she would assume the shape of a hare, and would send outher grandson to tell a certain huntsman who lived hard by that he had seena hare sitting at such a particular spot, for which he always received thereward of sixpence.After this deception had many times been practiced, the dogs turnedout, the hare pursued, and often seen but never caught, a sportsman of theparty began to suspect, in the language of the tradition, "that the devilwas in the dance," and there would be no end to it.The matter was discussed, a justice consulted, and a clergyman to boot.and it was thought that, however clever the devil might be, law and churchcombined would be more than a match for him. It was therefore agreed that,as the boy was singularly regular in the hour at which he came to announcethe sight of the hare, all should be in readiness for a start the instantsuch information was given. and a neighbor of the witch, nothing friendlyto her, promised to let the parties know directly the old woman and hergrandson left the cottage and went off together, the one to be hunted, andthe other to set on the hunt.The news came, the hounds were unkenneled, and huntsmen and sportsmenset off with surprising speed. The witch, now a hare, and her littlecolleague in iniquity, did not expect so very speedy a turnout. so thatthe game was pursued at a desperate rate, and the boy, forgetting himselfin a moment of alarm, was heard to exclaim, "Run, Granny, run! Run foryour life!"At last the pursuers lost the hare, and she once more got safe into thecottage by a little hole in the door, not large enough to admit a hound inchase. The huntsman and all the squires with their train lent a hand tobreak open the door, yet could not do it till the parson and the justicecame up. but as law and church were certainly designed to break throughiniquity, even so did they now succeed in bursting the magic bonds thatopposed them.Upstairs they all went. There they found the old hag bleeding, andcovered with wounds, and still out of breath. She denied she was a hare,and railed at the whole party."Call up the hounds," said the huntsman, "and let us see what they takeher to be. Maybe we may yet have another hunt."On hearing this the old woman cried quarter. The boy dropped on hisknees, and begged hard for mercy   mercy was granted on condition of itsbeing received together with a good whipping. and the huntsman, havinglong practiced amongst the hounds, now tried his hand on their game.Thus the old woman escaped a worse fate for the time present. but onbeing afterwards put on her trial for bewitching a young woman and makingher spit pins, the tale just told was given as evidence against her,before a particularly learned judge, and a remarkably sagacious jury, andthe old woman finished her days, like a martyr, at the stake.