entered the garden, the old woman said within herself, If the eunuchs bewith us, we shall not attain our wish. So she said to the King'sdaughter, O my mistress, I would propose to thee a thing productive ofease to thy heart. And the lady Dunya replied, Propose what thou wilt.The old woman therefore said, O my mistress, thou hast no need of theseeunuchs at the present time. nor will thy heart be dilated as long asthey are with us: so dismiss them from us. Thou hast spoken truly,replied the lady Dunya: and she dismissed them. and a little whileafter, as she was walking, Taj el Mulook beheld her, and gazed at herbeauty and loveliness, while she knew it not. and every time that helooked at her he fainted, by reason of her surpassing beauty. The oldwoman in the meantime led her on by conversation to the pavilion whichthe Wezeer had ordered to be painted. and, entering this pavilion, thelady Dunya took a view of its paintings, and saw the birds and thefowler and the pigeons. whereupon she exclaimed, Extolled be theperfection of God! Verily this is the representation of what I beheld inmy dream! And she continued gazing at the figures of the birds and thefowler and the snare, full of wonder. and said, O my nurse, I used tocensure men, and hate them. but see the fowler, how he hath killed thefemale bird, and the male hath escaped, and desired to return to thefemale to liberate her, but the bird of prey hath met him and capturedhim. The old woman, however, affected ignorance to her, and proceeded todivert her with talk until they both approached the place whereTaj el Mulook was concealed. upon which she made a sign to him that heshould walk beneath the windows of the pavilion. and while the ladyDunya stood there, she looked aside, and saw him, and, observing thebeauty of his face, and his elegant form, she said, O my nurse, whenceis this handsome youth? The old woman answered, I know him not. but Iimagine that he is the son of a great King. for he is of the utmostbeauty and loveliness. And the lady Dunya was enraptured with him. Thespells that bound her were dissolved, her reason was overcome by hisbeauty and loveliness and his elegant person, and she was affected byviolent love: so she said to the old woman, O my nurse, verily thisyoung man is handsome. The old woman replied, Thou hast spoken truth, Omy mistress. And she made a sign to the King's son to return to hishouse. The fire of desire flamed within him, and his rapture anddistraction became excessive. but he went, and bade farewell to thesuperintendent, and departed to his abode, that he might not disobey theold woman, and acquainted the Wezeer and 'Azeez that she had made a signto him to depart. And they both exhorted him to be patient, saying tohim, If the old woman did not know that there was an object to beattained by thy return, she had not made a sign to thee to do so.Now to return to the lady Dunya. Desire overcame her, and her raptureand distraction increased. so she said to the old woman, I know not howto obtain an interview with this young man but through thy means. Theold woman exclaimed, I seek refuge with Allah from Satan the accursed!Thou hast no desire for men. and how, then, have fears affected thee inconsequence of the love of him? But, by Allah, none other than he issuited to thy youth. O my nurse, rejoined the lady Dunya, assist me toobtain an interview with him, and thou shalt receive from me a thousandpieces of gold, and a dress of the same value: if thou assist me not togain him, I shall die inevitably. So the old woman replied, Go thou tothy palace, and I will devise means to bring you together, and give mylife to satisfy you both. The lady Dunya then returned to her palace,while the old woman repaired to Taj el Mulook. and when he saw her, herose to her, and stood, and received her with respect and honour,seating her by his side. and she said to him, The stratagem hathsucceeded. She then related to him what had occurred between her andthe lady Dunya. and he said to her, When shall be the interview? Sheanswered, To morrow. And he gave her a thousand pieces of gold, and agarment of the same value: and she took them, and departed, and stoppednot until she went in to the lady Dunya, who said to her, O my nurse,what news hast thou brought from the beloved? I have discovered hisabode, she answered. and to morrow I will bring him to thee. And at thisthe lady Dunya rejoiced, and gave her a thousand pieces of gold, and agarment of the same value. and she took them, and returned to her house.She passed the next night, and in the morning she went forth andrepaired to Taj el Mulook, and, having clad him in women's apparel, saidto him, Walk behind me, and incline thy body from side to side as thousteppest, and proceed not with a hasty pace, nor takenotice of any one who may speak to thee. And after she had thus chargedhim, she went forth, and he behind her in his female attire. and sheproceeded to instruct him, on the way, how to act, that he might notfear. She continued on her way, he following her, until they arrived atthe entrance of the palace, when she entered, and he also after her, andshe passed through successive doors and antechambers until she hadconducted him through seven doors. And when she arrived at the seventhdoor, she said to Taj el Mulook, Fortify thy heart, and if I call out tothee, and say to thee, O slave girl, advance! be not tardy in thy pace,but hasten on, and when thou hast entered the antechamber beyond, lookto thy left: thou wilt see a saloon with seven doors. and do thou countfive doors, and enter the sixth. for within it is the object of thydesire. And whither goest _thou_? said Taj el Mulook. She answered, Ihave no place to go to. but perhaps I may wait after thee and speak withthe chief eunuch. She then proceeded, and he followed her, until theyarrived at the door where was the chief eunuch. and he saw with herTaj el Mulook in the attire of a female slave, and said to her, What isthe business of this slave girl who is with thee? She answered him, Thelady Dunya hath heard that this girl is skilled in different kinds ofwork, and she desireth to purchase her. But the eunuch replied, I knowneither slave girl nor any other person. and no one shall enter withoutbeing searched by me, as the King hath commanded me. Upon this, the oldwoman, manifesting anger, said to him, I knew that thou wast a man ofsense and of good manners. and if thou art changed I will acquaint herwith this, and inform her that thou hast offered opposition to herfemale slave. She then called out to Taj el Mulook, and said to him,Advance, O slave girl! And immediately he entered the antechamber, asshe had commanded him, and the eunuch was silent, and said no more. SoTaj el Mulook counted five doors, and entered the sixth, and found thelady Dunya standing expecting him.As soon as she beheld him, she knew him, and pressed him to her bosom,and he embraced her in like manner. and the old woman, coming in tothem, contrived a pretext to dismiss the female slaves. after which thelady Dunya said to her, Be thou keeper of the door. She then remainedalone with Taj el Mulook, and they passed the whole night in innocentdalliance. And on the following morning she closed thedoor upon him and the old woman, and entering another apartment, satthere according to her custom. and her female slaves came to her, andshe transacted their affairs and conversed with them, and then said tothem, Go forth from me now. for I desire to amuse myself in solitude. Sothey left her, and she returned to Taj el Mulook and the old woman,taking with her some food for them. and thus they ceased not to do for awhole month.As to the Wezeer, however, and 'Azeez, when Taj el Mulook had gone tothe palace of the King's daughter and remained all this time, theyconcluded that he would never return from it, and that he was inevitablylost. and 'Azeez said to the Wezeer, O my father, what wilt thou do? TheWezeer answered, O my son, this affair is one of difficulty, and if wereturn not to his father to acquaint him, he will blame us for ournegligence. So they prepared themselves immediately, and journeyedtowards El Ar el Khara and El 'Amoodeyn and the royalresidence of the King Suleyman Shah, and traversed the valleys night andday until they went in and presented themselves before the King SuleymanShah. and they informed him of that which had happened to his son, andthat they had learnt no news of him since he had entered the palace ofthe King's daughter. On hearing this, he was as though the day ofresurrection had surprised him: his sorrow was intense, and he gaveorders to make a proclamation of war throughout his dominions. He thensent forth his troops outside the city, and caused the tents to bepitched for them, and remained in his pavilion until the forces hadassembled from all the quarters of his kingdom. His subjects loved himfor his great justice and beneficence, and he departed with an army thatcovered the earth as far as the eye could reach, for the purpose ofdemanding his son Taj el Mulook.In the meantime, Taj el Mulook and the lady Dunya continued together forhalf a year, every day increasing in mutual love. and the love anddistraction and rapture of Taj el Mulook so augmented that he opened toher his mind, and said to her, Know, O beloved of my heart, that thelonger I remain with thee, the more do my distraction and ecstasy anddesire increase. for I have not altogether attained my wish. So shesaid, What dost thou wish, O light of my eye, and delight of my heart?He answered, I desire to acquaint thee with my true history: know, then,that I am not a merchant, but a King, son of a King, and the name of myfather is the Supreme King Suleyman Shah, who sent the Wezeer asambassador to thy father to demand thee for me in marriage. and when thenews came to thee thou refusedst to consent. He then related to her hisstory from first to last. and added, I desire now to repair to myfather, that he may send an ambassador again to thy father, to demandthee in marriage from him, and so we shall remain at ease. And when sheheard this, she rejoiced exceedingly: for it coincided with her wish.and they passed the next night determined upon this proceeding.But it happened, in accordance with destiny, that sleep overcame themunusually that night, and they remained until the sun had risen. TheKing Shah Zeman was then upon his royal seat, with the emeers of hisempire before him, and the chief of the goldsmiths presented himself,having in his hand a large round casket: and he advanced, and, openingit before the King, took forth from it an elegant box worth a hundredthousand pieces of gold for the jewels it contained, and rubies andemeralds, such as no King of the earth could procure. And when the Kingsaw it, he wondered at its beauty. and he looked towards the chiefeunuch, to whom the affair with the old woman had happened (as abovedescribed), and said to him, O Kafoor, take this box, andgo with it to the lady Dunya. So the eunuch took it, and proceeded untilhe arrived at the chamber of the King's daughter, when he found its doorclosed, and the old woman sleeping at its threshold, and he exclaimed,Until this hour are ye sleeping? And when the old woman heard what hesaid, she awoke from her sleep, and, in her fear of him, said, Waituntil I bring the key. She then went forth and fled. The eunuch,therefore, knew that she was alarmed, and he displaced thedoor, and, entering the chamber, found the lady Dunyaasleep with Taj el Mulook. At the sight of this, he was perplexed at hiscase, and was meditating to return to the King, when the lady Dunyaawoke, and found him by her. and she was troubled, and her countenancebecame pale, and she said, O Kafoor, veil what God hath veiled. But hereplied, I cannot conceal anything from the King. And he closed the doorupon them, and returned to the King. So the King said to him, Hast thougiven the box to thy mistress? The eunuch answered, Take the box: hereit is. I cannot conceal from thee anything. Know that I beheld, with thelady Dunya, a handsome young man, sleeping in the same chamber. The Kingtherefore ordered that they should be both brought before him. and whenthey had come into his presence, he said to them, What are these deeds?And he was violently enraged, and, seizing a dagger, wasabout to strike with it Taj el Mulook. but the lady Dunya threw her headupon him, and said to her father, Slay me before him. The King, however,chid her, and ordered them to convey her back to her chamber. Thenlooking towards Taj el Mulook, he said to him, Wo to thee! Whence artthou, and who is thy father, and what hath emboldened thee to act thustowards my daughter? Know, O King, answered Taj el Mulook, that, ifthou put me to death, thou wilt perish, and thou and all in thydominions will repent. And why so? said the King. He answered, Knowthat I am the son of the King Suleyman Shah, and thou wilt not be awareof the consequence when he will approach thee with his horsemen and hisinfantry. And when King Shah Zeman heard this, he desired to deferputting him to death. and to imprison him until he should see whetherhis assertion were true. but his Wezeer said to him, O King of the age,it is my advice that thou hasten the execution of this young wretch,since he hath been guilty of presumption towards the daughters of Kings.So he said to the executioner, Strike off his head. for he is a traitor.And the executioner took him, and, having bound him firmly, raised hishand, and made a sign of consultation to the emeers a first and a secondtime, desiring by this that some delay might take place. but the Kingcalled out to him, How long wilt thou consult? If thou do so again Iwill strike off thy head.The executioner, therefore, raised his hand until his arm pit appeared,and was about to strike off his head, when loud cries were heard, and,the people closed their shops. So the King said to the executioner,Hasten not. And he sent a person to learn the news for him. and themessenger went, and, soon returning, said to the King, I beheld an armylike the roaring sea agitated with waves. their horses are prancing, andthe earth trembleth beneath them, and I know not wherefore they arecome. And the King was amazed, and feared lest he should be deposed fromhis throne. He then said to his Wezeer, Have none of our troops goneforth to meet this army? But his words were not finished when hischamberlains came in to him accompanied by the messengers of theapproaching King, and among them was the Wezeer who had been withTaj el Mulook. He commenced by salutation. and the King rose to him,and, calling them near to him, asked them respecting the cause of theircoming: whereupon the Wezeer advanced from among them, and approachedthe King, and said to him, Know that he who hath alighted in thyterritories is a King not like the Kings who have preceded him, nor likethe Sulans of former times. And who is he? said the King. The Wezeeranswered, He is the lord of justice and security, the fame of whosemagnanimity the caravans have spread abroad, the Sulan Suleyman Shah,the lord of El Ar el Khara and El 'Amoodeyn and the mountains ofIpahan, who loveth justice and equity, and hateth tyranny andoppression. and he saith to thee, that his son is in thy dominions andin thy city, and he is the vital spirit of his heart, and its delight.and if he find him in safety, it is what he desireth, and thou wilt bethanked and praised. but if he be not found in thy country, or if anyevil hath befallen him, receive tidings of destruction and of the ruinof thy territories. for thy country shall become a desert in which theraven shall croak. Thus I have delivered to thee the message. and peacebe on thee. When the King Shah Zeman heard these words of the envoy,his heart was troubled, and he feared for his kingdom, and called out tothe lords of his empire, and his wezeers and chamberlains andlieutenants. and when they had come before him he said to them, Wo untoyou! Go down and search for this young man. But he was under the handof the executioner, and his appearance was changed through the fear thathe suffered. The Wezeer then, looking aside, found the King's son uponthe skin of blood, and he recognised him, and arose, andthrew himself upon him. So also did the other messengers: they thenunbound him, and kissed his hands and his feet. whereupon Taj el Mulookopened his eyes, and, recognising the Wezeer and his companion 'Azeez,fell down in a swoon through the excess of his joy at their presence.The King Shah Zeman was perplexed at his situation, and in great fear,on discovering that the coming of the army was on account of this youngman. and he arose and walked forward to Taj el Mulook, and kissed hishead, and, with weeping eyes, said to him, O my son, be not angry withme: be not angry with the evil doer for his deed. but have compassion onmy gray hairs, and lay not waste my dominions. And Taj el Mulookapproached him, and kissed his hand, saying to him, No harm shall befallthee. for thou art in my estimation as my father. but beware that noevil befall my beloved, the lady Dunya. O my lord, rejoined the King,fear not for her. for nought but happiness awaiteth her. And heproceeded to excuse himself to him, and to soothe the mind of the Wezeerof the King Suleyman Shah, promising him a large sum of money that hemight conceal from the King what he had seen. after which he ordered thegrandees of his empire to take Taj el Mulook and to conduct him to thebath, to clothe him in a suit of the best of royal apparel, and bringhim back quickly. So they did this: they conducted him into the bath,and, having clad him in the suit which the King Shah Zeman had allottedhim, brought him back to the hall of audience. and when he came in, theKing rose to him, he and all the lords of his empire, and they all stoodto wait upon him. Then Taj el Mulook sat and conversed with his father'sWezeer and with 'Azeez respecting the events which had happened to him.and they replied, During that period we went to thy father, and informedhim that thou hadst entered the palace of the King's daughter, and notcome forth from it, and that thy case appeared doubtful to us. and whenhe heard this, he made ready the troops, and we came to this country,and on our arrival have experienced joy and happiness. So he said tothem, Good fortune hath attended your actions, first and last.The King, in the meantime, had gone into his daughter, the lady Dunya,and found her weeping for Taj el Mulook. She had taken a sword, and putits hilt to the floor, and its point to the middle of her bosom, and wasleaning over it, saying, I must kill myself, and not live after mybeloved. When her father, therefore, went in to her, and beheld her inthis state, he called out to her, and said, O mistress of the daughtersof Kings, do it not. but have mercy upon thy father and the people ofthy country! Then advancing to her, he said to her, I conjure thee toabstain, lest evil befall thy father on thy account. And he acquaintedher with the case, telling her that her beloved, the son of the KingSuleyman Shah, desired to celebrate his marriage with her, and adding,The affair of the betrothal and marriage is committed to thy judgment.And she smiled, and said to him, Did I not tell thee that he was the sonof a Sulan? I will make him crucify thee upon a piece of wood worth acouple of pieces of silver. I conjure thee by Allah, he exclaimed, thatthou have mercy upon thy father! Go to him, she rejoined, and bring himto me. He replied, On the head and the eye. And he returned from herquickly, and, going in to Taj el Mulook, rejoiced him by what he said.He then arose with him, and went to her again. and when she beheldTaj el Mulook, she embraced him in the presence of her father, and clungto him, and said to him, Thou hast made me desolate by thine absence.Then looking at her father, she said, Can any one act injuriouslytowards such a person as this handsome youth, and he a King, a son of aKing? And upon this the King Shah Zeman went forth, and closed the doorupon them, and, repairing to the Wezeer and the other messengers of thefather of Taj el Mulook, ordered them to inform the Sulan Suleyman Shahthat his son was in prosperity and health, and enjoying a life of theutmost delight. He gave orders also to carry forth provisions and pay tothe troops of the Sulan Suleyman Shah. and after they had conveyed allthat he commanded them to take forth, he brought out a hundred coursers,and a hundred dromedaries, and a hundred memlooks, and a hundredconcubine slaves, and a hundred male black slaves, and a hundred femaleslaves, and sent them all to him as a present.He then repaired to him, with the lords of his empire, and his chiefattendants, and they proceeded until they arrived outside the city. andwhen the Sulan Suleyman Shah became acquainted with this he advancedsome paces to meet him. The Wezeer and 'Azeez had informed him of thenews, and he rejoiced, and exclaimed, Praise be to God who hath grantedmy son the accomplishment of his wish! And he embraced the KingShah Zeman, and seated him by his side upon the couch, and theyconversed together. after which the attendants placed before. them thefood, and when they had eaten to satisfaction they brought them thesweetmeats. Soon after, Taj el Mulook came, approaching in his rich andornamented dress. and when his father beheld him, he rose to him andkissed him, and all who were present rose to him. and after he had satwith them a while conversing, the King Suleyman Shah said, I desire toperform my son's contract of marriage to thy daughter in the presence ofwitnesses. And King Shah Zeman replied, I hear and obey. So he summonedthe aee and witnesses, and they came, and wrote the marriage contract.and the troops rejoiced at this. And King Shah Zeman began to fit outhis daughter.Then Taj el Mulook said to his father, Verily, 'Azeez is a generousperson. he hath performed for me a great service, and wearied himself,and journeyed with me, and enabled me to attain the object of my search,ceasing not to exhort me to patience until I accomplished my wish, andhe hath been with us two years separated from his country: it is mydesire, therefore, that we should prepare for him merchandise. for hiscountry is near. His father replied, Thy opinion is excellent. So theyprepared for him a hundred loads of the most costly stuffs. andTaj el Mulook bade him farewell, saying to him, O my brother, acceptthis as a present. And he accepted it, and kissed the ground before himand before his father. Taj el Mulook then mounted his horse, andproceeded with 'Azeez for the space of three miles. after which, 'Azeezconjured him to return, and said, Were it not for my mother, I could notendure thy separation. and by Allah, I entreat thee not to ceaseacquainting me with thy state. Having thus said, he bade him farewell,and repaired to his city. He found that his mother had built for him atomb in the midst of the house, and she frequently visited it. and whenhe entered the house, he found that she had dishevelled her hair andspread it upon the tomb, and, with streaming eyes, was reciting theseverses: By Allah, O tomb, have his charms perished. and hath that brilliantcountenance changed?O tomb, thou art neither a garden nor a firmament: how then canthe full moon and flowers be united in thee?She then groaned, and recited some other verses. but before she hadfinished, 'Azeez went in to her: and when she beheld him, she rose tohim and embraced him, and asked him respecting his long absence: so heacquainted her with all the events that had happened to him from firstto last, and told her that Taj el Mulook had given him, of wealth andstuffs, a hundred loads. and she rejoiced at this. Such was the historyof 'Azeez.Now as to Taj el Mulook, he returned to his beloved, the lady Dunya, andKing Shah Zeman fitted her out for the journey with her husband and herfather in law: he sent to them provisions and presents and rarities, andthey loaded their beasts and departed. and King Shah Zeman accompaniedthem three days' journey to bid them farewell. The King Suleyman Shahthen conjured him to return: so he returned. and Taj el Mulook and hisfather and his wife continued their journey night and day until theycame in sight of their country. The city was decorated for them, andthey entered it. and the King Suleyman Shah sat upon his throne with hisson Taj el Mulook by his side. and he gave presents, and liberated thepersons confined in the prisons. after which he celebrated for his son asecond wedding festivity: the songs and instrumental music werecontinued for a whole month, and the tire women crowded around the ladyDunya, and she was not tired with the display, nor were they with gazingat her. Taj el Mulook then took up his abode with her, after aninterview with his father and mother together. and they passed a life ofthe utmost delight and enjoyment.