sea, a maiden clad in tattered garments, who kissed my hand, and said tome, O my master, art thou possessed of charity and kindness? If so, Iwill requite thee for them. I answered, Yes, I have those qualities,though thou requite me not. Then said she, O my master, accept me as thywife, and take me to thy country. for I give myself to thee:act kindly towards me. for I am one who requires to be treated withkindness and charity, and who will requite thee for so doing. and letnot my present condition at all deceive thee. When I heard these words,my heart was moved with tenderness towards her, in order to theaccomplishment of a purpose of God, to whom be ascribed all might andglory. and I took her, and clothed her, and furnished for her a place inthe ship in a handsome manner, and regarded her with kind and respectfulattention.We then set sail. and I became most cordially attached to my wife, sothat, on her account, I neglected the society of my brothers, who, inconsequence, became jealous of me, and likewise envied me my wealth, andthe abundance of my merchandise. casting the eyes of covetousness uponthe whole of the property. They therefore consulted together to kill me,and take my wealth. saying, Let us kill our brother, and all theproperty shall be ours: and the devil made these actions to seem fairin their eyes. so they came to me while I was sleeping by the side of mywife, and took both of us up, and threw us into the sea. But as soon asmy wife awoke, she shook herself, and became transformed into aJinneeyeh. She immediately bore me away, and placed me uponan island, and, for a while, disappeared. In the morning, however, shereturned, and said to me, I am thy wife, who carried thee, and rescuedthee from death, by permission of God, whose name be exalted. Know thatI am a Jinneeyeh: I saw thee, and my heart loved thee for the sake ofGod. for I am a believer in God and his Apostle, God bless and savehim! I came to thee in the condition in which thou sawest me,and thou didst marry me. and see, I have rescued thee from drowning. ButI am incensed against thy brothers, and I must kill them. When I heardher tale, I was astonished, and thanked her for what she had done. But,said I, as to the destruction of my brothers, it is not what I desire. Ithen related to her all that had happened between myself and them fromfirst to last. and when she had heard it, she said, I will, this nextnight, fly to them, and sink their ship, and destroy them. But I said, Iconjure thee by Allah that thou do it not. for the author of the proverbsaith, O thou benefactor of him who hath done evil, the action that hehath done is sufficient for him: besides, they are at allevents my brothers. She still, however, said, They must be killed. andI continued to propitiate her towards them: and at last she lifted meup, and soared through the air, and placed me on the roof of myhouse.Having opened the doors, I dug up what I had hidden in the earth. andafter I had saluted my neighbours, and bought merchandise, I opened myshop. And in the following night, when I entered my house, I found thesetwo dogs tied up in it. and as soon as they saw me, they came to me, andwept, and clung to me. but I knew not what had happened untilimmediately my wife appeared before me, and said, These are thybrothers. And who, said I, hath done this unto them? She answered, Isent to my sister and she did it. and they shall not be restored untilafter the lapse of ten years. And I was now on my way to her, that shemight restore them, as they have been in this state ten years, when Isaw this man, and, being informed of what had befallen him, I determinednot to quit the place until I should have seen what would happen betweenthee and him. This is my story. Verily, said the Jinnee, it is awonderful tale. and I give up to thee a third of the claim that I had tohis blood on account of his offence.Upon this, the third sheykh, the owner of the mule, said to theJinnee, As to me, break not my heart if I relate to theenothing more than this: 