The 1001 NightsIt is related that a certain king said to the people of his dominions, "If any one of you give aught in alms, I will assuredly cut off his hand."So all the people refrained from alms giving, and none could bestow upon another.And it happened that a beggar came to a woman one day, and hunger tormented him, and he said to her, "Give me somewhat as an alms.""How," said she, "can I bestow an alms upon thee when the king cutteth off the hand of every one who doth so?"But he rejoined, "I conjure thee by God (whose name be exalted!) that thou give me an alms."So when he conjured her by God, she was moved with pity for him, and bestowed upon him two cakes of bread. And the news reached the king. whereupon he gave orders to bring her before him. and when she came, he cut off her hands. And she returned to her house.Then the king, after a while, said to his mother, "I desire to marry. therefore marry me to a comely woman."And she replied, "There is, among our female slaves, a woman than whom none more beautiful existeth. but she hath a grievous defect.""And what is it?" he asked.She answered, "She is maimed of the two hands."The king however said, "I desire to see her."Wherefore she brought her to him, and when he saw her, he was tempted by her beauty, and married her. And that woman was she who bestowed upon the beggar the two cakes of bread, and whose hands were cut off on that account.But when he had married her, her fellow wives envied her, and wrote to the king, telling him that she was unchaste. and she had given birth to a son.And the king wrote a letter to his mother, in which he commanded her to go forth with her to the desert, and to leave her there, and return.His mother therefore did so. she took her forth to the desert, and returned. And that woman began to weep for the misfortune that had befallen her, and to bewail violently, with a wailing not to be exceeded. And while she was walking, with the child upon her neck, she came to a river, and kneeled down to drink, because of the violence of the thirst that had affected her from her walking and fatigue and grief. and when she stooped her head, the child fell into the water.So she sat weeping violently for her child. and while she wept, lo, there passed by her two men, who said to her, "What causeth thee to weep?"She answered, "I had a child upon my neck, and he fell into the water."And they said, "Dost thou desire that we rescue him, and restore him to thee?"She answered, "Yes."And upon this they supplicated God (whose name be exalted!), and the child came forth to her safe and unhurt.Then they said to her, "Dost thou desire that God should restore to thee thy hands as they were?"She answered, "Yes."And they supplicated God (whose perfection be extolled, and whose name be exalted!). whereupon her hands returned to her in the most perfect state.After this they said to her, "Knowest thou who we are?""God," she replied, "is all knowing."And they said, "We are thy two cakes of bread which thou gavest as an alms to the beggar, and which alms occasioned the cutting off of thy hands. Therefore praise God (whose name be exalted!) that he hath restored to thee thy hands and thy child.And she praised God (whose name be exalted!), and glorified him.