appeared at one of the windows and beckoned her to come near and showwhat she had. At that moment a very big fish jumped about in thebottom of the basket."Is it a he or a she?" inquired the queen. "I wish to purchase a shefish."On hearing this the fish laughed aloud."It's a he," replied the fisherwoman, and proceeded on her rounds.The queen returned to her room in a great rage. and on coming to seeher in the evening, the king noticed that something had disturbed her."Are you indisposed?" he said."No. but I am very much annoyed at the strange behaviour of a fish. Awoman brought me one to day, and on my inquiring whether it was a maleor female, the fish laughed most rudely.""A fish laugh! Impossible! You must be dreaming.""I am not a fool. I speak of what I have seen with my own eyes andhave heard with my own ears.""Passing strange! Be it so. I will inquire concerning it."On the morrow the king repeated to his vizier what his wife had toldhim, and bade him investigate the matter, and be ready with asatisfactory answer within six months, on pain of death. The vizierpromised to do his best, though he felt almost certain of failure. Forfive months he laboured indefatigably to find a reason for thelaughter of the fish. He sought everywhere and from every one. Thewise and learned, and they who were skilled in magic and in all mannerof trickery, were consulted. Nobody, however, could explain thematter. and so he returned broken hearted to his house, and began toarrange his affairs in prospect of certain death, for he had hadsufficient experience of the king to know that His Majesty would notgo back from his threat. Amongst other things, he advised his son totravel for a time, until the king's anger should have somewhat cooled.The young fellow, who was both clever and handsome, started offwhithersoever Kismat might lead him. He had been gone some days, whenhe fell in with an old farmer, who also was on a journey to a certainvillage. Finding the old man very pleasant, he asked him if he mightaccompany him, professing to be on a visit to the same place. The oldfarmer agreed, and they walked along together. The day was hot, andthe way was long and weary."Don't you think it would be pleasanter if you and I sometimes gaveone another a lift?" said the youth."What a fool the man is!" thought the old farmer.Presently they passed through a field of corn ready for the sickle,and looking like a sea of gold as it waved to and fro in the breeze."Is this eaten or not?" said the young man.Not understanding his meaning, the old man replied, "I don't know."After a little while the two travellers arrived at a big village,where the young man gave his companion a clasp knife, and said, "Takethis, friend, and get two horses with it. but mind and bring it back,for it is very precious."The old man, looking half amused and half angry, pushed back theknife, muttering something to the effect that his friend was either afool himself or else trying to play the fool with him. The young manpretended not to notice his reply, and remained almost silent tillthey reached the city, a short distance outside which was the oldfarmer's house. They walked about the bazaar and went to the mosque,but nobody saluted them or invited them to come in and rest."What a large cemetery!" exclaimed the young man."What does the man mean," thought the old farmer, "calling thislargely populated city a cemetery?"On leaving the city their way led through a cemetery where a fewpeople were praying beside a grave and distributing chapatis andkulchas to passers by, in the name of their beloved dead. Theybeckoned to the two travellers and gave them as much as they would."What a splendid city this is!" said the young man."Now, the man must surely be demented!" thought the old farmer. "Iwonder what he will do next? He will be calling the land water, andthe water land. and be speaking of light where there is darkness, andof darkness when it is light." However, he kept his thoughts tohimself.Presently they had to wade through a stream that ran along the edge ofthe cemetery. The water was rather deep, so the old farmer took offhis shoes and paijamas and crossed over. but the young man wadedthrough it with his shoes and paijamas on."Well! I never did see such a perfect fool, both in word and in deed,"said the old man to himself.However, he liked the fellow. and thinking that he would amuse hiswife and daughter, he invited him to come and stay at his house aslong as he had occasion to remain in the village."Thank you very much," the young man replied. "but let me firstinquire, if you please, whether the beam of your house is strong."The old farmer left him in despair, and entered his house laughing."There is a man in yonder field," he said, after returning theirgreetings. "He has come the greater part of the way with me, and Iwanted him to put up here as long as he had to stay in this village.But the fellow is such a fool that I cannot make anything out of him.He wants to know if the beam of this house is all right. The man mustbe mad!" and saying this, he burst into a fit of laughter."Father," said the farmer's daughter, who was a very sharp and wisegirl, "this man, whosoever he is, is no fool, as you deem him. He onlywishes to know if you can afford to entertain him.""Oh! of course," replied the farmer. "I see. Well perhaps you can helpme to solve some of his other mysteries. While we were walkingtogether he asked whether he should carry me or I should carry him, ashe thought that would be a pleasanter mode of proceeding.""Most assuredly," said the girl. "He meant that one of you should tella story to beguile the time.""Oh yes. Well, we were passing through a corn field, when he asked mewhether it was eaten or not.""And didn't you know the meaning of this, father? He simply wished toknow if the man was in debt or not. because, if the owner of the fieldwas in debt, then the produce of the field was as good as eaten tohim. that is, it would have to go to his creditors.""Yes, yes, yes. of course! Then, on entering a certain village, hebade me take his clasp knife and get two horses with it, and bringback the knife again to him.""Are not two stout sticks as good as two horses for helping one alongon the road? He only asked you to cut a couple of sticks and becareful not to lose his knife.""I see," said the farmer. "While we were walking over the city we didnot see anybody that we knew, and not a soul gave us a scrap ofanything to eat, till we were passing the cemetery. but there somepeople called to us and put into our hands some chapatis and kulchas.so my companion called the city a cemetery, and the cemetery a city.""This also is to be understood, father, if one thinks of the city asthe place where everything is to be obtained, and of inhospitablepeople as worse than the dead. The city, though crowded with people,was as if dead, as far as you were concerned. while, in the cemetery,which is crowded with the dead, you were saluted by kind friends andprovided with bread.""True, true!" said the astonished farmer. "Then, just now, when wewere crossing the stream, he waded through it without taking off hisshoes and paijamas.""I admire his wisdom," replied the girl. "I have often thought howstupid people were to venture into that swiftly flowing stream andover those sharp stones with bare feet. The slightest stumble and theywould fall, and be wetted from head to foot. This friend of yours is amost wise man. I should like to see him and speak to him.""Very well," said the farmer. "I will go and find him, and bring himin.""Tell him, father, that our beams are strong enough, and then he willcome in. I'll send on ahead a present to the man, to show him that wecan afford to have him for our guest."Accordingly she called a servant and sent him to the young man with apresent of a basin of ghee, twelve chapatis, and a jar of milk, andthe following message: "O friend, the moon is full. twelve monthsmake a year, and the sea is overflowing with water."Half way the bearer of this present and message met his little son,who, seeing what was in the basket, begged his father to give him someof the food. His father foolishly complied. Presently he saw the youngman, and gave him the rest of the present and the message."Give your mistress my salam," he replied, "and tell her that the moonis new, and that I can only find eleven months in the year, and thesea is by no means full."Not understanding the meaning of these words, the servant repeatedthem word for word, as he had heard them, to his mistress. and thushis theft was discovered, and he was severely punished. After a littlewhile the young man appeared with the old farmer. Great attention wasshown to him, and he was treated in every way as if he were the son ofa great man, although his humble host knew nothing of his origin. Atlength he told them everything about the laughing of the fish, hisfather's threatened execution, and his own banishment and asked theiradvice as to what he should do."The laughing of the fish," said the girl, "which seems to have beenthe cause of all this trouble, indicates that there is a man in thepalace who is plotting against the king's life.""Joy, joy!" exclaimed the vizier's son. "There is yet time for me toreturn and save my father from an ignominious and unjust death, andthe king from danger."The following day he hastened back to his own country, taking with himthe farmer's daughter. Immediately on arrival he ran to the palace andinformed his father of what he had heard. The poor vizier, now almostdead from the expectation of death, was at once carried to the king,to whom he repeated the news that his son had just brought."Never!" said the king."But it must be so, Your Majesty," replied the vizier. "and in orderto prove the truth of what I have heard, I pray you to call togetherall the maids in your palace, and order them to jump over a pit,which must be dug. We'll soon find out whether there is any manthere."The king had the pit dug, and commanded all the maids belonging to thepalace to try to jump it. All of them tried, but only one succeeded.That one was found to be a man!!Thus was the queen satisfied, and the faithful old vizier saved.Afterwards, as soon as could be, the vizier's son married the oldfarmer's daughter. and a most happy marriage it was.