There was once upon a time a young fellow who enlisted for a soldier,and became so brave and courageous that he was always in the front rankswhen it rained blue beans. As long as the war lasted all went well,but when peace was concluded he received his discharge, and the captaintold him he might go where he liked. His parents meanwhile had died, andas he had no longer any home to go to he paid a visit to his brothers,and asked them to give him shelter until war broke out again. Hisbrothers, however, were hard hearted, and said, "What could we do withyou? We could make nothing of you. see to what you have broughtyourself". and so turned a deaf ear. The poor Soldier had nothing buthis musket left. so he mounted this on his shoulder and set out on atramp. By and by he came to a great heath with nothing on it but acircle of trees, under which he sat down, sorrowfully considering hisfate. "I have no money," thought he. "I have learnt nothing butsoldiering, and now, since peace is concluded, there is no need of me. Isee well enough I shall have to starve." All at once he heard arustling, and as he looked round he perceived a stranger standing beforehim, dressed in a gray coat, who looked very stately, but had an uglycloven foot. "I know quite well what you need," said this being. "goldand other possessions you shall have, as much as you can spend. butfirst I must know whether you are a coward or not, that I may not spendmy money foolishly.""A soldier and a coward!" replied the other, "that cannot be. you mayput me to any proof.""Well, then," replied the stranger, "look behind you."The Soldier turned and saw a huge bear, which eyed him very ferociously."Oho!" cried he, "I will tickle your nose for you, that you shall nolonger be able to grumble". and, raising his musket, he shot the bear inthe forehead, so that he tumbled in a heap upon the ground, and did notstir afterward. Thereupon the stranger said, "I see quite well that youare not wanting in courage. but there is yet one condition which youmust fulfil." "If it does not interfere with my future happiness," saidthe Soldier, who had remarked who it was that addressed him. "if it doesnot interfere with that, I shall not hesitate.""That you must see about yourself!" said the stranger. "For the nextseven years you must not wash yourself, nor comb your hair or beard,neither must you cut your nails nor say one paternoster. Then I willgive you this coat and mantle, which you must wear during these sevenyears. and if you die within that time you are mine, but if you live youare rich, and free all your life long."The Soldier reflected for awhile on his great necessities, and,remembering how often he had braved death, he at length consented, andventured to accept the offer. Thereupon the Evil One pulled off the graycoat, handed it to the soldier, and said, "If you at any time search inthe pockets of your coat when you have it on, you will always find yourhand full of money." Then also he pulled off the skin of the bear, andsaid, "That shall be your cloak and your bed. you must sleep on it, andnot dare to lie in any other bed, and on this account you shall becalled 'Bearskin.'" Immediately the Evil One disappeared.The Soldier now put on the coat, and dipped his hands into the pockets,to assure himself of the reality of the transaction. Then he hung thebearskin around himself, and went about the world chuckling at his goodluck, and buying whatever suited his fancy which money could purchase.For the first year his appearance was not very remarkable, but in thesecond he began to look quite a monster. His hair covered almost all hisface, his beard appeared like a piece of dirty cloth, his nails wereclaws, and his countenance was so covered with dirt that one might havegrown cresses upon it if one had sown seed! Whoever looked at him ranaway. but because he gave the poor in every place gold coin they prayedthat he might not die during the seven years. and because he paidliberally everywhere, he found a night's lodging without difficulty. Inthe fourth year he came to an inn where the landlord would not take himin, and refused even to give him a place in his stables, lest the horsesshould be frightened and become restive. However, when Bearskin put hishand into his pocket and drew it out full of gold ducats the landlordyielded the point, and gave him a place in the outbuildings, but nottill he had promised that he would not show himself, for fear the innshould gain a bad name.While Bearskin sat by himself in the evening, wishing from his heartthat the seven years were over, he heard in the corner a loud groan. Nowthe old Soldier had a compassionate heart, so he opened the door and sawan old man weeping violently and wringing his hands. Bearskin steppednearer, but the old man jumped up and tried to escape. but when herecognized a human voice he let himself be persuaded, and by kind wordsand soothings on the part of the old Soldier he at length disclosed thecause of his distress. His property had dwindled away by degrees, and heand his daughters would have to starve, for he was so poor that he hadnot the money to pay the host, and would therefore be put into prison."If you have no care except that," replied Bearskin, "I have moneyenough". and causing the landlord to be called, he paid him, and put apurse full of gold besides into the pocket of the old man. The latter,when he saw himself released from his troubles, knew not how to besufficiently grateful, and said to the Soldier, "Come with me. mydaughters are all wonders of beauty, so choose one of them for a wife.When they hear what you have done for me they will not refuse you. Youappear certainly an uncommon man, but they will soon put you to rights."This speech pleased Bearskin, and he went with the old man. As soon asthe eldest daughter saw him, she was so terrified at his countenancethat she shrieked out and ran away. The second one stopped and looked athim from head to foot. but at last she said, "How can I take a husbandwho has not a bit of a human countenance? The grizzly bear would havepleased me better who came to see us once, and gave himself out as aman, for he wore a hussar's hat, and had white gloves on besides."But the youngest daughter said, "Dear father, this must be a good manwho has assisted you out of your troubles. if you have promised him abride for the service your word must be kept"It was a pity the man's face was covered with dirt and hair, else onewould have seen how glad at heart these words made him. Bearskin took aring off his finger, broke it in two, and, giving the youngest daughterone half, he kept the other for himself. On her half he wrote his name,and on his own he wrote hers, and begged her to preserve it carefully.Thereupon he took leave, saying, "For three years longer I must wanderabout. if I come back again, then we will celebrate our wedding. but ifI do not, you are free, for I shall be dead. But pray to God that hewill preserve my life."When he was gone the poor bride clothed herself in black, and whenevershe thought of her bridegroom burst into tears. From her sisters shereceived nothing but scorn and mocking. "Pay great attention when heshakes your hand," said the eldest, "and you will see his beautifulclaws!" "Take care!" said the second, "bears are fond of sweets, and ifyou please him he will eat you up, perhaps!" "You must mind and do hiswill," continued the eldest, "or he will begin growling!" And the seconddaughter said further, "But the wedding will certainly be merry, forbears dance well!" The bride kept silence, and would not be drawn fromher purpose by all these taunts. and meanwhile Bearskin wandered aboutin the world, doing good where he could, and giving liberally to thepoor, for which they prayed heartily for him. At length the last day ofthe seven years approached, and Bearskin went and sat down again on theheath beneath the circle of trees. In a very short time the windwhistled, and the Evil One presently stood before him and looked at himwith a vexed face. He threw the Soldier his old coat and demanded hisgray one back. "We have not got so far as that yet," replied Bearskin."you must clean me first." Then the Evil One had, whether he liked it orno, to fetch water, wash the old Soldier, comb his hair out, and cut hisnails. This done, he appeared again like a brave warrior, and indeed wasmuch handsomer than before.As soon as the Evil One had disappeared, Bearskin became quitelight hearted. and going into the nearest town he bought a fine velvetcoat, and hired a carriage drawn by four white horses, in which he wasdriven to the house of his bride. Nobody knew him. the father took himfor some celebrated general, and led him into the room where hisdaughters were. He was compelled to sit down between the two eldest, andthey offered him wine, and heaped his plate with the choicest morsels.for they thought they had never seen any one so handsome before. But thebride sat opposite to him dressed in black, neither opening her eyes norspeaking a word. At length the Soldier asked the father if he would givehim one of his daughters to wife, and immediately the two elder sistersarose, and ran to their chambers to dress themselves out in their mostbecoming clothes, for each thought she should be chosen. Meanwhile thestranger, as soon as he found himself alone with his bride, pulled outthe half of the ring and threw it into a cup of wine, which he handedacross the table. She took it, and as soon as she had drunk it and seenthe half ring lying at the bottom her heart beat rapidly, and sheproduced the other half, which she wore round her neck on a riband. Sheheld them together, and they joined each other exactly, and the strangersaid, "I am your bridegroom, whom you first saw as Bearskin. but throughGod's mercy I have regained my human form, and am myself once more."With these words he embraced and kissed her. and at the same time thetwo eldest sisters entered in full costume. As soon as they saw that thevery handsome man had fallen to the share of their youngest sister, andheard that he was the same as "Bearskin," they ran out of the house fullof rage and jealousy.