There was once a merchant whose business was so immense that he was thewealthiest tradesman known. He had three daughters, one of whom was namedBeauty. One day the merchant received word from friends far away,informing him of the failure of one of his connections, and he at onceprepared himself for a journey to that place. The two older daughtersasked him to buy all sorts of finery and dresses for them, but Beautyasked for nothing at all. When the merchant left, these two girls hadrubbed their eyes with onions in order to look as if they were sorry tobid him good bye. but Beauty needed no such artifice. her tears were quitenatural.So the merchant went away, and in due time arrived at the place where thetradesman of whom he had heard the bad news was living. But instead ofobtaining money, as he hoped, he was kicked and beaten so violently thatit seems a great wonder he came away without losing his life. Of course hehad now nothing to do but return, so he mounted his horse and turnedhomeward. Towards evening he unfortunately lost his way, and when itbecame quite dark he knew no better than to ride in the direction of alight which was shining from a distance. At length he reached a beautifullittle palace, but although it was lighted, there seemed to be no one athome.After a while he found a shelter and food for his horse   pure oats, andnothing else. The animal might well dance for joy, for both man and beastwere well nigh exhausted from the long ride. When the horse had beenprovided for, the master stepped into the palace. There a light wasburning, and a table was laid for one person, but no one was to be seen.As the merchant was tired, he sat down without invitation, and ate ahearty supper. A fine bed was there, too, and when he had eaten enough hestretched himself among the pillows and enjoyed a good night's rest.The next morning everything appeared as on the evening before. The horsewas well supplied, and as breakfast was ready on the table, the merchantseated himself, doing justice to the good meal. At he was now ready toleave, he thought it might be well to look over the premises, and glancinginto the garden he perceived some exquisite flowers. He went down,intending to carry some of them home with him as a present for Beauty. butno sooner had he touched them than a horse came running towards him asfast as it could trot, saying, "You thoughtless man. I was good to youlast night, I gave you shelter and provisions, and now you would even takewith you the most beautiful flowers in my garden."The merchant immediately begged pardon, saying that he had intended theflowers as a gift for Beauty, his daughter."Have you several daughters?" asked the horse."Yes, I have three, and Beauty is the youngest one," he replied."Now you must promise me," said the horse, "that you will give me thedaughter whose name is Beauty. if you refuse, I will take your life."Well, the merchant did not wish to lose his life, so he promised to bringhis daughter to the palace, whereupon the horse disappeared among thetrees, and the man rode home.As soon as he reached his house, the two older daughters came out andasked him for the fine things which they were expecting. But Beauty cameand bid him welcome. He produced the flowers and gave them to her, saying,"These are for you, but they cost your life," and he then told her how hehad been obliged to make the fatal promise to the horse, in order to savehis life.Beauty at once said, "I am willing to follow you, father, and am alwaysglad to help you." They started on their journey, and soon arrived at thepalace.As before, no one was to be seen, but the merchant found food for hishorses and a good stable The table was also laid for two persons, andthere were two beds. Having done justice to the supper, father anddaughter retired and slept soundly. When they awoke the next morning, theyfound breakfast ready for both, ate heartily, and having exchanged manyloving and tender words, they separated, the father riding away. We willlet him proceed, and see what occurred at the palace.Shortly before dinnertime the horse arrived. He came into the room andsaid, "Welcome, Beauty!" She did not feel very glad, and had all she coulddo in keeping her tears back. "You shall do nothing but walk around inthese rooms and in the garden," continued the horse. "Your meals areprovided for. I shall come home every day at noon. at other times you mustnot expect me."Time passed, and Beauty felt so lonely that she often longed for noon,when the horse came home, and she could talk with him. She gradually cameto look at him more and more kindly. but one thing caused her greatdistress, namely, that she had no news from her father. One day shementioned this to the horse."Yes," said he, "I understand that very well. In the large room you willfind a mirror in which you can see all that you are thinking of."She was happy to learn this, and went straight into the room where themirror was hanging. As soon as she thought of her father, her old home wasvisible in the glass, and she noticed how he was sitting in his chair witha sorrowful expression upon his countenance, while his two daughters weresinging and dancing. Beauty felt sorry over this state of affairs, and thenext day she told the horse what she had seen."Your father is sorry, I suppose," said the horse, " because he has lostyou. He will soon feel better, however."But on the next day, when Beauty consulted the mirror, her father lookedpale and ill, like one who is deadly sick. both of her sisters weredressed for a ball, and neither of them seemed to care for the weak man.Beauty burst into tears, and when the horse came home, asking what ailedher, she told him of the bad state of affairs, wishing that he would allowher to return and nurse her poor father during his illness."If you will promise to come back," said the horse, "you may return andstay for three days. but under no condition must you break your word."Beauty told him she would come back in three days."Tonight," resumed the horse, "before going to bed, you must place themirror under your pillow, saying, 'I wish to be home tomorrow.' Then yourwish will be fulfilled. When you desire to return, you must do likewise."The next morning, when Beauty awoke, she was at her old home. Her fatherbecame so glad to see her again that he at once felt a great deal better.She cared so well for him that the next day he was able to be up, and onthe third day he was almost well. As he wished her to stay with him a fewdays longer, she complied, thinking that no harm would come from it. Onthe third day after, however, when she looked into the mirror, she saw thehorse stretched on the ground in front of the bench which was her favoriteseat in the garden. She now felt that it would be impossible for her toremain longer, hence in the evening, before going to bed, she placed themirror under her pillow, saying: "I wish to be at the palace tomorrowmorning."She promptly awoke in the palace the following morning, and hurrying intothe garden she found the horse so very sick that he could not stand on hislegs. Beauty knelt down and asked him to forgive her for staying awaylonger than she had promised. The horse asked her if she could notpersuade herself to stay with him all her life, but she answered that itwould seem very singular to live with a horse all her lifetime. The pooranimal now sighed so deeply that she took pity on him and said, fearingthat he might die then and there, that she would always stay with him andnever leave him.As soon as she had made this promise, the horse vanished, and a beautifulyoung prince stood before her. He seized her hand and asked whether shewas not sorry for the promise she had made. No, she said, she would ratherstay with him now than when he was in the shape of a horse. He now toldher that both he and the whole land had been enchanted by his wickedstepmother, who had converted him into a horse, and told him that onlywhen a beautiful young girl would promise to stay with him, in his alteredshape, would the enchantment be over. He wanted to marry Beauty, and livein the palace which belonged to him.So they sent for her father to take up his residence with them, and nowthe marriage was performed and celebrated in a splendid manner. They livedlong and happily together, the prince and his Beauty.