There was once a woman innkeeper who kept an inn in a remote place. She was a widow and had a daughter whose name was Beautiful Magdalene. The daughter was so beautiful that a suitor from the city presented himself and wanted to marry her as soon as possible. However, the mother, still in her best years, would have liked to marry this suitor herself. Because he had taken special interest in the daughter's beautiful arms, the mother convinced the executioner to chop off Beautiful Magdalene's arms, in order to make her unattractive to the suitor.The mother led the girl into a forest where the executioner was lying in wait. He chopped off her arms. While the executioner and the mother were burying the arms, Beautiful Magdalena ran away from them, swearing never again to be seen by her mother. In great pain she went deeper into the woods. Finally she came out of the forest and to a high mountain. She climbed upward until she spotted a castle with a garden. She approached the castle and attempted to get into the garden, finally succeeding to get over the fence. As she walked around inside the garden the prince, who was standing at a castle window, saw her beauty but noticed at the same time that she had no arms.He called to his mother, saying, "Mother, look! There is a beautiful woman in the garden, but she has no arms."The queen looked out the window and saw the beautiful girl without arms fluttering around in the garden like a magnificent butterfly.Seeing that her son was attracted to her, she said, "Go and bring the girl into the castle."The prince went to her in the garden. Seeing that the prince was approaching her, she attempted to run away. He caught up with her and took her into the castle.The prince's mother asked how she had lost her arms and where she had come from. Sobbing, she related everything that had happened to her.The prince fell in love with her and confessed to his mother that he wanted to marry her. The mother loved her son very much, and seeing how beautiful the girl was, she immediately agreed to the marriage. The wedding was held, and the mother had her son crowned as king. They lived happily together, but soon the young king had to go off to war.In the meantime Beautiful Magdalene gave birth to a little prince. The king's mother was delighted and wanted to share the good news with her son. She wrote a letter and gave it to a trusted servant to deliver to the king.Unfortunately, the servant came to the same inn that had been Beautiful Magdalene's home. The innkeeper was still unmarried, for the suitor had not returned after the daughter's disappearance. She questioned the servant and soon discovered from his talk about the queen without arms that her daughter had become queen. She put a sleeping potion in his drink, then replaced his letter with a false one stating that the king's wife had given birth to a poodle dog, and that the old queen could not sleep at night because of the dog's whining.Nonetheless, the prince was pleased with the news of the birth and wrote back to the mother that she should take good care of his wife until he returned home. Furthermore, she should keep the young dog.Returning to the castle, the servant stopped once again at the old woman's inn. She was curious how the king had answered the letter and again put a sleeping potion into his wine. While he slept she opened the letter. Again she put a false one in its place, wherein it was stated that the king's mother should send his wife into exile immediately. If she were still there upon his return, he would have her burned at the stake, because in the meantime he had chosen a new wife whom he would be bringing home with him.This letter saddened the old queen greatly. The young queen was curious and demanded to know what the letter contained. The old queen told her what had been written, and from that hour onward Beautiful Magdalene wanted to leave the castle. The old queen wrapped the child in a cloak and tied the bundle onto the mother's back. Thus Beautiful Magdalene made her way into the wide world.Some time later she found herself in a dense forest where a valley stretched forth on the one side. Her child cried, but she could not nurse him because she could not hold him with her arm stump. Suddenly she heard a terrible roar close by, and she saw that it was a lion that had a thorn stuck in its paw. With her mouth she untied the bundle that held her child to her back, then lay him on the ground next to her. Beautiful Magdalene kneeled down before the lion and tried to pull out the thorn with her mouth, but without success.Then she suddenly heard a voice. Looking around in the woods she saw no one, nor did she hear anything else.But soon thereafter she heard the voice once again, and she clearly understood the words: "Beautiful Magdalene, go down into the valley. Kneel down in the water and immerse your shoulder blades. Do this, and you shall again have your arms."Descending into the valley, Beautiful Magdalene heard the rustling water. She kneeled down in it and immersed her shoulder blades. When she pulled them up her beautiful arms were there once again. She rushed back to her child, whom the lion had been watching over like a guardian angel. First she picked up and nursed the baby, while the lion waited patiently. Then she lay the child back on the ground and pulled the thorn from the lion's paw.After this she put the child back on her back then followed the health giving stream, thinking that it would lead to someone's dwelling. When night fell she arrived at a house and went inside, where she found two chairs and a table set with food. After she had refreshed herself somewhat, a little white dwarf appeared, but he was terribly afraid of the lion who was lying at Beautiful Magdalene's feet. She told the dwarf that he should not fear the lion, so he came nearer, then asked where she had come from. She told him everything that had happened, upon which the little white dwarf told her that she should remain there, and that he would care for her. Whenever she was hungry, she should say:Table, set yourself.Glass, fill yourself,and everything that she might want would appear.She did this, and whenever she said the charm, the most delicious food and the most expensive wine appeared on the table. There was even some marzipan there. For some time she lived there in the house, and she was usually quite lonely, for the little white dwarf was mostly away.In the meantime her husband returned home from the war and deduced what had happened. Finding no peace, the king sponsored a great hunt. He lost his way and was separated from his servants and companions, but at nightfall he fortunately saw a light in the house where Beautiful Magdalene was staying. He knocked on the door, and Beautiful Magdalene immediately recognized his voice. However, the lion did not want to allow the king inside. She hit the lion. he became still, and the king stepped inside. He asked her where she had come from and why she was living in this little house. She told him everything that had happened.Then the king recognized his wife and was beside himself with joy that a miracle had restored her arms. He kissed her arms passionately, and he kissed her mouth. And thus they carried on for a long time.He stayed that night with his wife in the little white dwarf's house. The next morning he took her back to his castle. The lion came along as well, quite majestically.He conferred with his mother as to how the old innkeeper should be punished. She advised that the guilty one should be placed in a barrel studded with nails and then rolled down a mountain. And thus the old woman was rolled down a mountain in a barrel.The ravens that saw it called out: "Caw! Caw!" With that they were saying: "Justice has been served!"The king sent his people to find the world's most precious armbands. A page returned with the most precious ones, and the king himself put them onto Beautiful Magdalene's arms. However, the very best thing was that now the queen could properly put her arms around her husband.