ANDTHE BEAST.There was once a very rich merchant, who had six children, three sons,and three daughters. being a man of sense, he spared no cost for theireducation, but gave them all kinds of masters. His daughters wereextremely handsome, especially the youngest. when she was little, everybody admired her, and called her _The little Beauty_. so that, asshe grew up, she still went by the name of _Beauty_, which made hersisters very jealous. The youngest, as she was handsome, was alsobetter than her sisters. The two eldest had a great deal of pride,because they were rich. They gave themselves ridiculous airs, and wouldnot visit other merchants' daughters, nor keep company with any butpersons of quality. They went out every day upon parties of pleasure,balls, plays, concerts, etc. and laughed at their youngest sister,because she spent the greatest part of her time in reading good books.As it was known that they were to have great fortunes, several eminentmerchants made their addresses to them. but the two eldest said theywould never marry, unless they could meet with a Duke, or an Earl atleast. Beauty very civilly thanked them that courted her, and told themshe was too young yet to marry, but chose to stay with her father a fewyears longer.All at once the merchant lost his whole fortune, excepting a smallcountry house at a great distance from town, and told his children, withtears in his eyes, they most go there and work for their living. Thetwo eldest answered, that they would not leave the town, for they hadseveral lovers, who they were sure would be glad to have them, thoughthey had no fortune. but in this they were mistaken, for their loversslighted and forsook them in their poverty. As they were not beloved onaccount of their pride, every body said, "they do not deserve to bepitied, we are glad to see their pride humbled, let them go and givethemselves quality airs in milking the cows and minding their dairy.But, (added they,) we are extremely concerned for Beauty, she was such acharming, sweet tempered creature, spoke so kindly to poor people, andwas of such an affable, obliging disposition." Nay, several gentlemenwould have married her, though they knew she had not a penny. but shetold them she could not think of leaving her poor father in hismisfortunes, but was determined to go along with him into the country tocomfort and attend him. Poor Beauty at first was sadly grieved at theloss of her fortune. "but, (she said to herself,) were I to cry ever somuch, that would not make things better, I must try to make myself happywithout a fortune." When they came to their country house, the merchantand his three sons applied themselves to husbandry and tillage. andBeauty rose at four in the morning, and made haste to have the houseclean, and breakfast ready for the family. In the beginning she foundit very difficult, for she had not been used to work as a servant. butin less than two months she grew stronger and healthier than ever.After she had done her work, she read, played on the harpsichord, orelse sung whilst she spun. On the contrary, her two sisters did notknow how to spend their time. they got up at ten, and did nothing butsaunter about the whole day, lamenting the loss of their fine clothesand acquaintance. "Do but see our youngest sister, (said they one tothe other,) what a poor, stupid mean spirited creature she is, to becontented with such an unhappy situation." The good merchant was of aquite different opinion. he knew very well that Beauty out shone hersisters, in her person as well as her mind, and admired her humility,industry, and patience. for her sisters not only left her all the workof the house to do, but insulted her every moment.The family had lived about a year in this retirement, when the merchantreceived a letter, with an account that a vessel, on board of which hehad effects, was safely arrived. This news had liked to have turned theheads of the two eldest daughters, who immediately flattered themselveswith the hopes of returning to town. for they were quite weary of acountry life. and when they saw their father ready to set out, theybegged of him to buy them new gowns, caps, rings, and all manner oftrifles. but Beauty asked for nothing, for she thought to herself, thatall the money her father was going to receive would scarce be sufficientto purchase every thing her sisters wanted. "What will you have,Beauty?" said her father. "Since you are so kind as to think of me,(answered she,) be so kind as to bring me a rose, for as none growhereabouts, they are a kind of rarity." Not that Beauty cared for arose, but she asked for something, lest she should seem by her exampleto condemn her sisters' conduct, who would have said she did it only tolook particular. The good man went on his journey. but when he camethere, they went to law with him about the merchandize, and after agreat deal of trouble and pains to no purpose, he came back as poor asbefore.He was within thirty miles of his own house, thinking on the pleasure heshould have in seeing his children again, when going through a largeforest he lost himself. It rained and snowed terribly, besides, thewind was so high, that it threw him twice off his horse. and nightcoming on, he began to apprehend being either starved to death with coldand hunger, or else devoured by the wolves, whom he heard howling allaround him, when, on a sudden, looking through a long walk of trees, hesaw a light at some distance, and going on a little farther, perceivedit came from a palace illuminated from top to bottom. The merchantreturned God thanks for this happy discovery, and hasted to the palace.but was greatly surprised at not meeting with anyone in the out courts.His horse followed him, and seeing a large stable open, went in, andfinding both hay and oats, the poor beast, who was almost famished, fellto eating very heartily. The merchant tied him up to the manger, andwalked towards the house, where he saw no one, but entering into a largehall, he found a good fire, and a table plentifully set out, with butone cover laid. As he was wet quite through with the rain and snow, hedrew near the fire to dry himself. "I hope, (said he,) the master ofthe house, or his servants, will excuse the liberty I take. I suppose itwill not be long before some of them appear."He waited a considerable time, till it struck eleven, and still nobodycame: at last he was so hungry that he could stay no longer, but took achicken and ate it in two mouthfuls, trembling all the while. Afterthis, he drank a few glasses of wine, and growing more courageous, hewent out of the hall, and crossed through several grand apartments withmagnificent furniture, till he came into a chamber, which had anexceeding good bed in it, and as he was very much fatigued, and it waspast midnight, he concluded it was best to shut the door, and go to bed.It was ten the next morning before the merchant waked, and as he wasgoing to rise, he was astonished to see a good suit of clothes in theroom of his own, which were quite spoiled. "Certainly, (said he,) thispalace belongs to some kind fairy, who has seen and pitied my distress."He looked through a window, but instead of snow saw the most delightfularbours, interwoven with the most beautiful flowers that ever werebeheld. He then returned to the great hall, where he had supped thenight before, and found some chocolate ready made on a little table."Thank you, good Madam Fairy, (said he aloud,) for being so careful asto provide me a breakfast. I am extremely obliged to you for all yourfavours."The good man drank his chocolate, and then went to look for his horse.but passing through an arbour of roses, he remembered Beauty's requestto him, and gathered a branch on which were several. immediately heheard a great noise, and saw such a frightful beast coming towards him,that he was ready to faint away. "You are very ungrateful, (said thebeast to him, in a terrible voice) I have saved your life by receivingyou into my castle, and, in return, you steal my roses, which I valuebeyond any thing in the universe. but you shall die for it. I give youbut a quarter of an hour to prepare yourself, to say your prayers." Themerchant fell on his knees, and lifted up both his hands: "My Lord (saidhe,) I beseech you to forgive me, indeed I had no intention to offend ingathering a rose for one of my daughters, who desired me to bring herone." "My name is not My Lord, (replied the monster,) but Beast. Idon't love compliments, not I. I like people should speak as they think.and so do not imagine I am to be moved by any of your flatteringspeeches. but you say you have got daughters. I will forgive you, oncondition that one of them come willingly, and suffer for you. Let mehave no words, but go about your business, and swear that if yourdaughter refuse to die in your stead, you will return within threemonths." The merchant had no mind to sacrifice his daughters to theugly monster, but he thought, in obtaining this respite, he should havethe satisfaction of seeing them once more. so he promised upon oath, hewould return, and the Beast told him he might set out when he pleased."but, (added he,) you shall not depart empty handed. go back to the roomwhere you lay, and you will see a great empty chest. fill it withwhatever you like best, and I will send it to your home," and at thesame time Beast withdrew. "Well (said the good man to himself) if Imust die, I shall have the comfort, at least, of leaving something to mypoor children."He returned to the bed chamber, and finding a great quantity of broadpieces of gold, he filled the great chest the Beast had mentioned,locked it, and afterwards took his horse out of the stable, leaving thepalace with as much grief as he had entered it with joy. The horse, ofhis own accord, took one of the roads of the forest. and in a few hoursthe good man was at home. His children came around him, but, instead ofreceiving their embraces with pleasure, he looked on them, and, holdingup the branch he had in his hands, he burst into tears. "Here, Beauty,(said he,) take these roses. but little do you think how dear they arelike to cost your unhappy father." and then related his fatal adventure:immediately the two eldest set up lamentable outcries, and said allmanner of ill natured things to Beauty, who did not cry at all. "Do butsee the pride of that little wretch, (said they). she would not ask forfine clothes, as we did. but no, truly, Miss wanted to distinguishherself. so now she will be the death of our poor father, and yet shedoes not so much as shed a tear." "Why should I, (answered Beauty,) itwould be very needless, for my father shall not suffer upon my account,since the monster will accept of one of his daughters, I will delivermyself up to all his fury, and I am very happy in thinking that my deathwill save my father's life, and be a proof of my tender love for him.""No, sister, (said her three brothers,) that shall not be, we will gofind the monster, and either kill him, or perish in the attempt." "Donot imagine any such thing, my sons, (said the merchant,) Beast's poweris so great, that I have no hopes of your overcoming him. I am charmedwith Beauty's kind and generous offer, but I cannot yield to it. I amold, and have not long to live, so can only lose a few years, which Iregret for your sakes alone, my dear children." "Indeed, father (saidBeauty), you shall not go to the palace without me, you cannot hinder mefrom following you." It was to no purpose all they could say, Beautystill insisted on setting out for the fine palace. and her sisters weredelighted at it, for her virtue and amiable qualities made them enviousand jealous.The merchant was so afflicted at the thoughts of losing his daughter,that he had quite forgot the chest full of gold. but at night, when heretired to rest, no sooner had he shut his chamber door, than, to hisgreat astonishment, he found it by his bedside. he was determined,however, not to tell his children that he was grown rich, because theywould have wanted to return to town, and he was resolved not to leavethe country. but he trusted Beauty with the secret: who informed him,that two gentlemen came in his absence, and courted her sisters. shebegged her father to consent to their marriage, and give them fortunes.for she was so good, that she loved them, and forgave them heartily alltheir ill usage. These wicked creatures rubbed their eyes with anonion, to force some tears when they parted with their sister. but herbrothers were really concerned. Beauty was the only one who did not shedtears at parting, because she would not increase their uneasiness.The horse took the direct road to the palace. and towards evening theyperceived it illuminated as at first: the horse went of himself into thestable, and the good man and his daughter came into the great hall,where they found a table splendidly served up, and two covers. Themerchant had no heart to eat. but Beauty endeavoured to appear cheerful,sat down to table, and helped him. Afterwards, thought she to herself,"Beast surely has a mind to fatten me before he eats me, since heprovides such a plentiful entertainment." When they had supped, theyheard a great noise, and the merchant, all in tears, bid his poor childfarewell, for he thought Beast was coming. Beauty was sadly terrifiedat his horrid form, but she took courage as well as she could, and themonster having asked her if she came willingly. "y e s," said she,trembling. "You are very good, and I am greatly obliged to you. honestman, go your ways tomorrow morning, but never think of returning hereagain. Farewell, Beauty." "Farewell, Beast," answered she. andimmediately the monster withdrew. "Oh, daughter, (said the merchant,embracing Beauty,) I am almost frightened to death. believe me, you hadbetter go back, and let me stay here." "No, father, (said Beauty, in aresolute tone,) you shall set out tomorrow morning, and leave me to thecare and protection of Providence." They went to bed, and thought theyshould not close their eyes all night. but scarce were they laid down,than they fell fast asleep. and Beauty dreamed, a fine lady came, andsaid to her, "I am content, Beauty, with your good will. this goodaction of yours, in giving up your own life to save your father's, shallnot go unrewarded." Beauty waked, and told her father her dream, andthough it helped to comfort him a little, yet he could not help cryingbitterly, when he took leave of his dear child.As soon as he was gone, Beauty sat down in the great hall, and fell acrying likewise. but as she was mistress of a great deal of resolution,she recommended herself to God, and resolved not to be uneasy the littletime she had to live. for she firmly believed Beast would eat her upthat night.However, she thought she might as well walk about till then, and viewthis fine castle, which she could not help admiring. it was a delightfulpleasant place, and she was extremely surprised at seeing a door, overwhich was wrote, "BEAUTY'S APARTMENT." She opened it hastily, and wasquite dazzled with the magnificence that reigned throughout. but whatchiefly took up her attention, was a large library, a harpsichord, andseveral music books. "Well, (said she to herself,) I see they will notlet my time hang heavy on my hands for want of amusement." Then shereflected, "Were I but to stay here a day, there would not have been allthese preparations." This consideration inspired her with fresh courage.and opening the library, she took a book, and read these words inletters of gold: "Welcome, Beauty, banish fear,You are queen and mistress here.Speak your wishes, speak your will,Swift obedience meets them still.""Alas, (said she, with a sigh,) there is nothing I desire so much as tosee my poor father, and to know what he is doing." She had no soonersaid this, when casting her eyes on a great looking glass, to her greatamazement she saw her own home, where her father arrived with a verydejected countenance. her sisters went to meet him, and, notwithstandingtheir endeavours to appear sorrowful, their joy, felt for having got ridof their sister, was visible in every feature: a moment after, everything disappeared, and Beauty's apprehensions at this proof of Beast'scomplaisance.At noon she found dinner ready, and while at table, was entertained withan excellent concert of music, though without seeing any body: but atnight, as she was going to sit down to supper, she heard the noise Beastmade. and could not help being sadly terrified. "Beauty, (said themonster,) will you give me leave to see you sup?" "That is as youplease," answered Beauty, trembling. "No, (replied the Beast,) youalone are mistress here. you need only bid me be gone, if my presence istroublesome, and I will immediately withdraw: but tell me, do not youthink me very ugly?" "That is true, (said Beauty,) for I cannot tell alie. but I believe you are very good natured." "So I am, (said themonster,) but then, besides my ugliness, I have no sense. I know verywell that I am a poor, silly, stupid creature." "'Tis no sign of follyto think so, (replied Beauty,) for never did fool know this, or had sohumble a conceit of his own understanding." "Eat then, Beauty, (said themonster,) and endeavour to amuse yourself in your palace. for everything here is yours, and I should be very uneasy if you were not happy.""You are very obliging, (answered Beauty.) I own I am pleased with yourkindness, and when I consider that, your deformity scarce appears.""Yes, yes, (said the Beast,) my heart is good, but still I am amonster." "Among mankind, (says Beauty,) there are many that deservethat name more than you, and I prefer you, just as your are, to those,who, under a human form, hide a treacherous, corrupt, and ungratefulheart." "If I had sense enough, (replied the Beast,) I would make afine compliment to thank you, but I am so dull, that I can only say, Iam greatly obliged to you." Beauty ate a hearty supper, and had almostconquered her dread of the monster. but she had liked to have faintedaway, when he said to her, "Beauty, will you be my wife?" She was sometime before she durst answer. for she was afraid of making him angry, ifshe refused. At last, however, she said, trembling, "No, Beast."Immediately the poor monster began to sigh, and hissed so frightfully,that the whole palace echoed. But Beauty soon recovered her fright, forBeast having said, in a mournful voice, "then farewell, Beauty," leftthe room. and only turned back, now and then, to look at her as he wentout.When Beauty was alone, she felt a great deal of compassion for poorBeast. "Alas, (said she,) 'tis a thousand pities any thing sogood natured should be so ugly."Beauty spent three months very contentedly in the palace: every eveningBeast paid her a visit, and talked to her during supper, veryrationally, with plain good common sense, but never with what the worldcalls wit. and Beauty daily discovered some valuable qualifications inthe monster. and seeing him often, had so accustomed her to hisdeformity, that, far from dreading the time of his visit, she wouldoften look on her watch to see when it would be nine. for the Beastnever missed coming at that hour. There was but one thing that gaveBeauty any concern, which was, that every night, before she went to bed,the monster always asked her, if she would be his wife. One day shesaid to him, "Beast, you make me very uneasy, I wish I could consent tomarry you, but I am too sincere to make you believe that will everhappen: I shall always esteem you as a friend. endeavour to be satisfiedwith this." "I must, said the Beast, for, alas! I know too well my ownmisfortune. but then I love you with the tenderest affection: however, Iought to think myself happy that you will stay here. promise me never toleave me." Beauty blushed at these words. she had seen in her glass,that her father had pined himself sick for the loss of her, and shelonged to see him again. "I could, (answered she), indeed promise neverto leave you entirely, but I have so great a desire to see my father,that I shall fret to death, if you refuse me that satisfaction." "I hadrather die myself, (said the monster,) than give you the leastuneasiness: I will send you to your father, you shall remain with him,and poor Beast will die with grief." "No, (said Beauty, weeping,) Ilove you too well to be the cause of your death: I give you my promiseto return in a week: you have shewn me that my sisters are married, andmy brothers gone to the army. only let me stay a week with my father, ashe is alone." "You shall be there tomorrow morning, (said the Beast,)but remember your promise: you need only lay your ring on the tablebefore you go to bed, when you have a mind to come back: farewell,Beauty." Beast sighed as usual, bidding her good night. and Beauty wentto bed very sad at seeing him so afflicted. When she waked the nextmorning, she found herself at her father's, and having rang a littlebell, that was by her bed side, she saw the maid come. who, the momentshe saw her, gave a loud shriek. at which the good man ran up stairs,and thought he should have died with joy to see his dear daughter again.He held her fast locked in his arms above a quarter of an hour. As soonas the first transports were over, Beauty began to think of rising, andwas afraid she had no clothes to put on. but the maid told her, that shehad just found, in the next room, a large trunk full of gowns, coveredwith gold and diamonds. Beauty thanked good Beast for his kind care,and taking one of the plainest of them, she intended to make a presentof the others to her sisters. She scarce had said so, when the trunkdisappeared. Her father told her, that Beast insisted on her keepingthem herself. and immediately both gowns and trunk came back again.Beauty dressed herself. and in the mean time they sent to her sisters,who hasted thither with their husbands. They were both of them veryunhappy. The eldest had married a gentleman, extremely handsome indeed,but so fond of his own person, that he was full of nothing but his owndear self, and neglected his wife. The second had married a man of wit,but he only made use of it to plague and torment every body, and hiswife most of all. Beauty's sisters sickened with envy, when they saw herdressed like a Princess, and more beautiful than ever. nor could all herobliging affectionate behaviour stifle their jealousy, which was readyto burst when she told them how happy she was. They went down into thegarden to vent it in tears. and said one to the other, "In what is thislittle creature better than us, that she should be so much happier?""Sister, said the eldest, a thought just strikes my mind. let usendeavour to detain her above a week, and perhaps the silly monster willbe so enraged at her for breaking her word, that he will devour her.""Right, sister, answered the other, therefore we must shew her as muchkindness as possible." After they had taken this resolution, they wentup, and behaved so affectionately to their sister, that poor Beauty weptfor joy. When the week was expired, they cried and tore their hair, andseemed so sorry to part with her, that she promised to stay a weeklonger.In the mean time, Beauty could not help reflecting on herself for theuneasiness she was likely to cause poor Beast, whom she sincerely loved,and really longed to see again. The tenth night she spent at herfather's, she dreamed she was in the palace garden, and that she sawBeast extended on the grass plot, who seemed just expiring, and, in adying voice, reproached her with her ingratitude. Beauty started out ofher sleep and bursting into tears, "Am not I very wicked, (said she) toact so unkindly to Beast, that has studied so much to please me in everything? Is it his fault that he is so ugly, and has so little sense? Heis kind and good, and that is sufficient. Why did I refuse to marry him?I should be happier with the monster than my sisters are with theirhusbands. it is neither wit nor a fine person in a husband, that makes awoman happy. but virtue, sweetness of temper, and complaisance: andBeast has all these valuable qualifications. It is true, I do not feelthe tenderness of affection for him, but I find I have the highestgratitude, esteem, and friendship. and I will not make him miserable.were I to be so ungrateful, I should never forgive myself." Beautyhaving said this, rose, put her ring on the table, and then laid downagain. scarce was she in bed before she fell asleep. and when she wakedthe next morning, she was overjoyed to find herself in the Beast'spalace. She put on one of her richest suits to please him, and waitedfor evening with the utmost impatience. at last the wished for hourcame, the clock struck nine, yet no Beast appeared. Beauty then fearedshe had been the cause of his death. she ran crying and wringing herhands all about the palace, like one in despair. after having sought forhim every where, she recollected her dream, and flew to the canal in thegarden, where she dreamed she saw him. There she found poor Beaststretched out, quite senseless, and, as she imagined, dead. She threwherself upon him without any dread, and finding his heart beat still,she fetched some water from the canal, and poured it on his head. Beastopened his eyes, and said to Beauty, "You forgot your promise, and I wasso afflicted for having lost you, that I resolved to starve myself. butsince I have the happiness of seeing you once more, I die satisfied.""No, dear Beast, (said Beauty,) you must not die. live to be my husband.from this moment I give you my hand, and swear to be none but yours.Alas! I thought I had only a friendship for you, but, the grief I nowfeel convinces me, that I cannot live without you." Beauty scarcely hadpronounced these words, when she saw the palace sparkle with light. andfireworks, instruments of music, every thing, seemed to give notice ofsome great event: but nothing could fix her attention. she turned to herdear Beast, for whom she trembled with fear. but how great was hersurprise! Beast had disappeared, and she saw, at her feet, one of theloveliest Princes that eye ever beheld, who returned her thanks forhaving put an end to the charm, under which he had so long resembled aBeast. Though this Prince was worthy of all her attention, she couldnot forbear asking where Beast was. "You see him at your feet, (saidthe Prince): a wicked fairy had condemned me to remain under that shapetill a beautiful virgin should consent to marry me: the fairy likewiseenjoined me to conceal my understanding. there was only you in the worldgenerous enough to be won by the goodness of my temper. and in offeringyou my crown, I can't discharge the obligations I have to you." Beauty,agreeably surprised, gave the charming Prince her hand to rise. theywent together into the castle, and Beauty was overjoyed to find, in thegreat hall, her father and his whole family, whom the beautiful lady,that appeared to her in her dream, had conveyed thither."Beauty, (said this lady,) come and receive the reward of your judiciouschoice. you have preferred virtue before either wit or beauty, anddeserve to find a person in whom all these qualifications are united:you are going to be a great Queen. I hope the throne will not lessenyour virtue, or make you forget yourself. As to you, ladies, (said theFairy to Beauty's two sisters,) I know your hearts, and all the malicethey contain: become two statues. but, under this transformation, stillretain your reason. You shall stand before your sister's palace gate,and be it your punishment to behold her happiness. and it will not be inyour power to return to your former state till you own your faults. butI am very much afraid that you will always remain statues. Pride,anger, gluttony, and idleness, are sometimes conquered, but theconversion of a malicious and envious mind is a kind of miracle."Immediately the fairy gave a stroke with her wand, and in a moment allthat were in the hall were transported into the Prince's palace. Hissubjects received him with joy. he married Beauty, and lived with hermany years. and their happiness, as it was founded on virtue, wascomplete.FINISWhy the Princess Has a Story About HerThere was once a little princess whose father was king over a greatcountry full of mountains and valleys. His palace was built upon oneof the mountains, and was very grand and beautiful. The princess,whose name was Irene, was born there, but she was sent soon after herbirth, because her mother was not very strong, to be brought up bycountry people in a large house, half castle, half farmhouse, on theside of another mountain, about half way between its base and its peak.The princess was a sweet little creature, and at the time my storybegins was about eight years old, I think, but she got older very fast.Her face was fair and pretty, with eyes like two bits of night sky,each with a star dissolved in the blue. Those eyes you would havethought must have known they came from there, so often were they turnedup in that direction. The ceiling of her nursery was blue, with starsin it, as like the sky as they could make it. But I doubt if ever shesaw the real sky with the stars in it, for a reason which I had bettermention at once.These mountains were full of hollow places underneath. huge caverns,and winding ways, some with water running through them, and someshining with all colours of the rainbow when a light was taken in.There would not have been much known about them, had there not beenmines there, great deep pits, with long galleries and passages runningoff from them, which had been dug to get at the ore of which themountains were full. In the course of digging, the miners came uponmany of these natural caverns. A few of them had far off openings outon the side of a mountain, or into a ravine.Now in these subterranean caverns lived a strange race of beings,called by some gnomes, by some kobolds, by some goblins. There was alegend current in the country that at one time they lived above ground,and were very like other people. But for some reason or other,concerning which there were different legendary theories, the king hadlaid what they thought too severe taxes upon them, or had requiredobservances of them they did not like, or had begun to treat them withmore severity, in some way or other, and impose stricter laws. and theconsequence was that they had all disappeared from the face of thecountry. According to the legend, however, instead of going to someother country, they had all taken refuge in the subterranean caverns,whence they never came out but at night, and then seldom showedthemselves in any numbers, and never to many people at once. It wasonly in the least frequented and most difficult parts of the mountainsthat they were said to gather even at night in the open air. Those whohad caught sight of any of them said that they had greatly altered inthe course of generations. and no wonder, seeing they lived away fromthe sun, in cold and wet and dark places. They were now, notordinarily ugly, but either absolutely hideous, or ludicrouslygrotesque both in face and form. There was no invention, they said, ofthe most lawless imagination expressed by pen or pencil, that couldsurpass the extravagance of their appearance. But I suspect those whosaid so had mistaken some of their animal companions for the goblinsthemselves of which more by and by. The goblins themselves were notso far removed from the human as such a description would imply. Andas they grew misshapen in body they had grown in knowledge andcleverness, and now were able to do things no mortal could see thepossibility of. But as they grew in cunning, they grew in mischief,and their great delight was in every way they could think of to annoythe people who lived in the open air storey above them. They hadenough of affection left for each other to preserve them from beingabsolutely cruel for cruelty's sake to those that came in their way.but still they so heartily cherished the ancestral grudge against thosewho occupied their former possessions and especially against thedescendants of the king who had caused their expulsion, that theysought every opportunity of tormenting them in ways that were as odd astheir inventors. and although dwarfed and misshapen, they had strengthequal to their cunning. In the process of time they had got a king anda government of their own, whose chief business, beyond their ownsimple affairs, was to devise trouble for their neighbours. It willnow be pretty evident why the little princess had never seen the sky atnight. They were much too afraid of the goblins to let her out of thehouse then, even in company with ever so many attendants. and they hadgood reason, as we shall see by and by.