Not far from Dalby, Billy Beg and Tom Beg, two humpback cobblers, livedtogether on a lonely croft. Billy Beg was sharper and cleverer than TomBeg, who was always at his command. One day Billy Beg gave Tom a staff,and quoth he, "Tom Beg, go to the mountain and fetch home the whitesheep."Tom Beg took the staff and went to the mountain, but he could not find thewhite sheep. At last, when he was far from home, and dusk was coming on,he began to think that he had best go back. The night was fine, and starsand a small crescent moon were in the sky. No sound was to be heard butthe curlew's sharp whistle. Tom was hastening home, and had almostreached Glen Rushen, when a grey mist gathered, and he lost his way. Butit was not long before the mist cleared, and Tom Beg found himself in agreen glen such as he had never seen before, though he thought he knewevery glen within five miles of him, for he was born and reared in theneighborhood. He was marveling and wondering where he could be, when heheard a far away sound drawing nearer to him."Aw," said he to himself, "there's more than myself afoot on the mountainstonight. I'll have company."The sound grew louder. First, it was like the humming of bees, then likethe rushing of Glen Meay waterfall, and last it was like the marching andthe murmur of a crowd. It was the fairy host. Of a sudden the glen wasfull of fine horses and of little people riding on them, with the lightson their red caps shining like the stars above and making the night asbright as day. There was the blowing of horns, the waving of flags, theplaying of music, and the barking of many little dogs. Tom Beg thoughtthat he had never seen anything so splendid as all he saw there. In themidst of the drilling and dancing and singing one of them spied Tom, andthen Tom saw coming towards him the grandest little man he had ever seteyes upon, dressed in gold and silver, and silk shining like a raven'swing."It is a bad time you have chosen to come this way," said the little man,who was the king."Yes. but it is not here that I'm wishing to be though," said Tom.Then said the king, "Are you one of us tonight, Tom?""I am surely," said Tom."Then," said the king, "it will be your duty to take the password. Youmust stand at the foot of the glen, and as each regiment goes by, you musttake the password: it is 'Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,Saturday.'""I'll do that with a heart and a half," said Tom.At daybreak the fiddlers took up their fiddles. the Fairy army set itselfin order. the fiddlers played before them out of the glen. and sweet thatmusic was. Each regiment gave the password to Tom as it went by, "Monday,Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday". and last of all came theking, and he, too, gave it, "Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,Saturday."Then he called in Manx to one of his men, "Take the hump from thisfellow's back," and before the words were out of his mouth the hump waswhisked off Tom Beg's back and thrown into the hedge.How proud now was Tom, who so found himself the straightest man in theIsle of Man! He went down the mountain and came home early in the morningwith light heart and eager step. Billy Beg wondered greatly when he sawTom Beg so straight and strong, and when Tom Beg had rested and refreshedhimself he told his story how he had met the Fairies who came every nightto Glen Rushen to drill.The next night Billy Beg set off along the mountain road and came at lastto the green glen. About midnight he heard the trampling of horses, thelashing of whips, the barking of dogs, and a great hullabaloo, and,behold, the Fairies and their king, their dogs and their horses, all atdrill in the glen as Tom Beg had said.When they saw the humpback they all stopped, and one came forward and verycrossly asked his business."I am one of Yourselves for the night, and should be glad to do you someservice," said Billy Beg.So he was set to take the password, "Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,Friday, Saturday." And at daybreak the King said, "It's time for us to beoff," and up came regiment after regiment giving Billy Beg the password,"Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday."Last of all came the king with his men. and gave the password also,"Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday.""AND SUNDAY," says Billy Beg, thinking himself clever. Then there was agreat outcry."Get the hump that was taken off that fellow's back last night and put iton this man's back," said the king, with flashing eyes, pointing to thehump that lay under the hedge.Before the words were well out of his mouth the hump was clapped ontoBilly Beg's back."Now," said the King, "be off, and if ever I find you here again, I willclap another hump on to your front!"And on that they all marched away with one great shout, and left poorBilly Beg standing where they had found him, with a hump growing on eachshoulder. And he came home next day dragging one foot after another, witha wizened face and as cross as two sticks, with his two humps on his back,and if they are not off they are there still.