There was once an old man in North Wales called Robin Ddu, or BlackRobin. He pretended to be a wizard, and though he had no magical power, hewas so cunning that he made people believe he had, and his fame spreadover the whole of Wales.A lady in the Vale of Towy lost three precious gems. They had beengiven to her by a dead sister, and she valued them all the more on thataccount. Every search was made for them, but they could not be found.The lady had not heard of the Well of Llanbedrog. (By means of that itis quite easy to discover who has stolen your property. All you have to dois to kneel by it, and after throwing in a bit of bread, name all whom yoususpect. When the thief's name is mentioned, the bread sinks.)But she had heard of Black Robin, and at last she decided to send forhim. She dispatched a servant to North Wales to offer him fifty pounds ifhe would restore her lost diamonds to her, and Robin traveled south withthe messenger. When he arrived, he said he would not begin his work unlessfifty pounds were given to him beforehand."Fifty pounds is a lot of money," said the lady. "I should like to testyour power before giving it you."To this Robin reluctantly agreed. The lady put a tame robin redbreastunder a dish on the table. Sending for the supposed magician, she askedhim to say what was under the vessel. He did not know what to say or do,and thought the best thing he could do was to confess his ignorance."Robin is caught," he said.Thinking he referred to the bird and not to himself, the lady wasastounded at what she regarded as a wonderful display of power, and Robinwas too cunning to confess. The money was paid over, and the process offinding the gems began.First of all he inquired carefully into all the circumstances of thedisappearance of the gems, cross examining all the inmates of the houseminutely. This investigation convinced him that one of the servants hadstolen them, but for some time he could not find out the actual thief.One day, as he was taking the air with one of the menservants, hehappened to enter the churchyard. The sexton in digging a grave had comeacross a quantity of old bones, among them being a skull. Robin took theskull back with him to his room, and his startled companion told theservants' hall about it.Then Robin called all the servants to him, and looking very stern,"Tomorrow night," said he, "I will summon a legion of devils, and theywill punish the guilty with all the tortures of hell. But the innocentshall not suffer with the guilty. Take these," and with this he handed toeach a tooth which he had wrenched from the skull. "By Friday morning" (itwas then Wednesday) "the guilty, after suffering unspeakable anguish andpain, will be as dead as the body from which these teeth have been taken.But I will not invoke my devils if the gems are brought to me beforemidnight, nor will I disclose to any living soul who took them."Sure enough, before midnight on Thursday a trembling maidservantbrought the diamonds to his room. The next thing to devise was how torestore them to their owner without disclosing the manner in which hey hadbeen recovered, and at the same time in such a way as to reflect credit onhimself as a magician.Looking out of his window in the morning he saw a flock of geesefeeding in a field not far from the mansion. Going out he took with him asmall piece of bread, in which he placed the stones. He threw the piece ofbread to the gander, which at once greedily swallowed it.Some time after, summoning the lady, "Kill that gander," he said, "andyou will find inside him your lost treasure."This was done and the diamonds were found."They were dropped on the floor and accidentally swept out with thedust," he explained, "and this greedy bird swallowed them. By means of theskull which the sexton dug out of the grave on Wednesday I was able todivine the mystery."