Far away in the country lay an old manor house where lived an old squirewho had two sons. They thought themselves so clever, that if they hadknown only half of what they did know, it would have been quite enough.They both wanted to marry the King's daughter, for she had proclaimedthat she would have for her husband the man who knew best how to choosehis words.Both prepared for the wooing a whole week, which was the longest timeallowed them. but, after all, it was quite long enough, for they bothhad preparatory knowledge, and everyone knows how useful that is. Oneknew the whole Latin dictionary and also three years' issue of the dailypaper of the town off by heart, so that he could repeat it all backwardsor forwards as you pleased. The other had worked at the laws ofcorporation, and knew by heart what every member of the corporationought to know, so that he thought he could quite well speak on Statematters and give his opinion. He understood, besides this, how toembroider braces with roses and other flowers, and scrolls, for he wasvery ready with his fingers.'I shall win the king's daughter!' they both cried.Their old father gave each of them a fine horse. the one who knew thedictionary and the daily paper by heart had a black horse, while theother who was so clever at corporation law had a milk white one. Thenthey oiled the corners of their mouths so that they might be able tospeak more fluently. All the servants stood in the courtyard and sawthem mount their steeds, and here by chance came the third brother. forthe squire had three sons, but nobody counted him with his brothers,for he was not so learned as they were, and he was generally called'Blockhead Hans.''Oh, oh!' said Blockhead Hans. 'Where are you off to? You are in yourSunday best clothes!''We are going to Court, to woo the Princess! Don't you know what isknown throughout all the country side?' And they told him all about it.'Hurrah! I'll go to!' cried Blockhead Hans. and the brothers laughed athim and rode off.'Dear father!' cried Blockhead Hans, 'I must have a horse too. What adesire for marriage has seized me! If she will have me, she WILL haveme, and if she won't have me, I will have her.''Stop that nonsense!' said the old man. 'I will not give you a horse.YOU can't speak. YOU don't know how to choose your words. Your brothers!Ah! they are very different lads!''Well,' said Blockhead Hans, 'if I can't have a horse, I will take thegoat which is mine. he can carry me!'And he did so. He sat astride on the goat, struck his heels into itsside, and went rattling down the high road like a hurricane.'Hoppetty hop! what a ride!' Here I come!' shouted Blockhead Hans,singing so that the echoes were roused far and near. But his brotherswere riding slowly in front. They were not speaking, but they werethinking over all the good things they were going to say, for everythinghad to be thought out.'Hullo!' bawled Blockhead Hans, 'here I am! Just look what I found onthe road!' and he showed them a dead crow which he had picked up.'Blockhead!' said his brothers, 'what are you going to do with it?''With the crow? I shall give it to the Princess!''Do so, certainly!' they said, laughing loudly and riding on.'Slap! bang! here I am again! Look what I have just found! You don'tfind such things every day on the road!' And the brothers turned roundto see what in the world he could have found.'Blockhead!' said they, 'that is an old wooden shoe without the top! Areyou going to send that, too, to the Princess?''Of course I shall!' returned Blockhead Hans. and the brothers laughedand rode on a good way.'Slap! bang! here I am!' cried Blockhead Hans. 'better and better it isreally famous!''What have you found now?' asked the brothers.'Oh,' said Blockhead Hans, 'it is really too good! How pleased thePrincess will be!''Why!' said the brothers, 'this is pure mud, straight from the ditch.''Of course it is!' said Blockhead Hans, 'and it is the best kind! Lookhow it runs through one's fingers!' and, so saying, he filled his pocketwith the mud.But the brothers rode on so fast that dust and sparks flew all around,and they reached the gate of the town a good hour before Blockhead Hans.Here came the suitors numbered according to their arrival, and they wereranged in rows, six in each row, and they were so tightly packedthat they could not move their arms. This was a very good thing, forotherwise they would have torn each other in pieces, merely because theone was in front of the other.All the country people were standing round the King's throne, and werecrowded together in thick masses almost out of the windows to see thePrincess receive the suitors. and as each one came into the room all hisfine phrases went out like a candle!'It doesn't matter!' said the Princess. 'Away! out with him!'At last she came to the row in which the brother who knew the dictionaryby heart was, but he did not know it any longer. he had quite forgottenit in the rank and file. And the floor creaked, and the ceiling was allmade of glass mirrors, so that he saw himself standing on his head, andby each window were standing three reporters and an editor. and eachof them was writing down what was said, to publish it in the paper thatcame out and was sold at the street corners for a penny. It was fearful,and they had made up the fire so hot that it was grilling.'It is hot in here, isn't it!' said the suitor.'Of course it is! My father is roasting young chickens to day!' said thePrincess.'Ahem!' There he stood like an idiot. He was not prepared for such aspeech. he did not know what to say, although he wanted to say somethingwitty. 'Ahem!''It doesn't matter!' said the Princess. 'Take him out!' and out he hadto go.Now the other brother entered.'How hot it is!' he said.'Of course! We are roasting young chickens to day!' remarked thePrincess.'How do you um!' he said, and the reporters wrote down. 'How doyou um.''It doesn't matter!' said the Princess. 'Take him out!'Now Blockhead Hans came in. he rode his goat right into the hall.'I say! How roasting hot it is here!' said he.'Of course! I am roasting young chickens to day!' said the Princess.'That's good!' replied Blockhead Hans. 'then can I roast a crow withthem?''With the greatest of pleasure!' said the Princess. 'but have youanything you can roast them in? for I have neither pot nor saucepan.''Oh, rather!' said Blockhead Hans. 'Here is a cooking implement with tinrings,' and he drew out the old wooden shoe, and laid the crow in it.'That is quite a meal!' said the Princess. 'but where shall we get thesoup from?''I've got that in my pocket!' said Blockhead Hans. 'I have so much thatI can quite well throw some away!' and he poured some mud out of hispocket.'I like you!' said the Princess. 'You can answer, and you can speak, andI will marry you. but do you know that every word which we are sayingand have said has been taken down and will be in the paper to morrow?By each window do you see there are standing three reporters and anold editor, and this old editor is the worst, for he doesn't understandanything!' but she only said this to tease Blockhead Hans. And thereporters giggled, and each dropped a blot of ink on the floor.'Ah! are those the great people?' said Blockhead Hans. 'Then I will givethe editor the best!' So saying, he turned his pockets inside out, andthrew the mud right in his face.'That was neatly done!' said the Princess. 'I couldn't have done it. butI will soon learn how to!'Blockhead Hans became King, got a wife and a crown, and sat on thethrone. and this we have still damp from the newspaper of the editor andthe reporters and they are not to be believed for a moment.