There was a young lady who wanted very much to have a child. She was pregnant, but very sad, because she had been told that her child would be a frog.How she grieved, but then she met a fairy who told her not to worry. The fairy would like to the godmother. The lady had a beautiful little girl. She was baptized with the name Blond Beauty and was raised by her godmother. The girl lived in a castle without doors. one had to enter through the windows.When the godmother arrived she would say, "Blond Beauty, let down your hair, so I can come up."But one day something different happened. A young king came by.He said, "Mademoiselle, you are so beautiful. Is there no way for me to come inside? How do you get out?""Me, I never go out. When my godmother comes I let down my hair and let her climb up.""If you would let down your hair, I could climb up and keep you company!"So she let down her hair, and let him climb up. When the old fairy arrived she hid him in a barrel."Blond Beauty, let down your hair, so I can come up."Then the parrot said over and over, "Her lover is in the barrel!""Hey! What are you saying, parrot. Be quiet, you little blabber mouth."The next day the young king took Blond Beauty away.When the fairy arrived, she said, "Blond Beauty, let down your hair, so I can come up."But Blond Beauty did not let down her hair. The fairy climbed into the castle, but Blond Beauty was not there.The parrot said, "I told you that her lover was in the barrel!""Oh, you poor parrot! You told me so. But now, Blond Beauty, you shall now become as ugly as you were beautiful!"And Blond Beauty turned into a frog.Now the king had another son. He said that the one of them who would bring home the most beautiful woman should receive a portion of the kingdom. So Blond Beauty was forced to return to the fairy and beg her to make her beautiful again."Oh Blond Beauty, you do not deserve it, but so be it!"And she became even more beautiful than before, and they won a portion of the kingdom.And then the king said that whoever should build the most beautiful castle for his wife, he would receive another portion of the kingdomSo they had to find the fairy again. The other son had a castle made of copper, but the fairy made a castle of silver for them, and thus they won another portion of the kingdom.