There was once a man who had fine houses, both in town and country, adeal of silver and gold plate, embroidered furniture, and coaches gildedall over with gold. But this man was so unlucky as to have a blue beard,which made him so frightfully ugly that all the women and girls ran awayfrom him.One of his neighbors, a lady of quality, had two daughters who wereperfect beauties. He desired of her one of them in marriage, leaving toher choice which of the two she would bestow on him. Neither of them wouldhave him, and they sent him backwards and forwards from one to the other,not being able to bear the thoughts of marrying a man who had a bluebeard. Adding to their disgust and aversion was the fact that he alreadyhad been married to several wives, and nobody knew what had become ofthem.Bluebeard, to engage their affection, took them, with their mother andthree or four ladies of their acquaintance, with other young people of theneighborhood, to one of his country houses, where they stayed a wholeweek.The time was filled with parties, hunting, fishing, dancing, mirth, andfeasting. Nobody went to bed, but all passed the night in rallying andjoking with each other. In short, everything succeeded so well that theyoungest daughter began to think that the man's beard was not so very blueafter all, and that he was a mighty civil gentleman.As soon as they returned home, the marriage was concluded. About amonth afterwards, Bluebeard told his wife that he was obliged to take acountry journey for six weeks at least, about affairs of very greatconsequence. He desired her to divert herself in his absence, to send forher friends and acquaintances, to take them into the country, if shepleased, and to make good cheer wherever she was."Here," said he," are the keys to the two great wardrobes, wherein Ihave my best furniture. These are to my silver and gold plate, which isnot everyday in use. These open my strongboxes, which hold my money, bothgold and silver. these my caskets of jewels. And this is the master key toall my apartments. But as for this little one here, it is the key to thecloset at the end of the great hall on the ground floor. Open them all. gointo each and every one of them, except that little closet, which I forbidyou, and forbid it in such a manner that, if you happen to open it, youmay expect my just anger and resentment."She promised to observe, very exactly, whatever he had ordered. Thenhe, after having embraced her, got into his coach and proceeded on hisjourney.Her neighbors and good friends did not wait to be sent for by the newlymarried lady. They were impatient to see all the rich furniture of herhouse, and had not dared to come while her husband was there, because ofhis blue beard, which frightened them. They ran through all the rooms,closets, and wardrobes, which were all so fine and rich that they seemedto surpass one another.After that, they went up into the two great rooms, which contained thebest and richest furniture. They could not sufficiently admire the numberand beauty of the tapestry, beds, couches, cabinets, stands, tables, andlooking glasses, in which you might see yourself from head to foot. someof them were framed with glass, others with silver, plain and gilded, thefinest and most magnificent that they had ever seen.They ceased not to extol and envy the happiness of their friend, who inthe meantime in no way diverted herself in looking upon all these richthings, because of the impatience she had to go and open the closet on theground floor. She was so much pressed by her curiosity that, withoutconsidering that it was very uncivil for her to leave her company, shewent down a little back staircase, and with such excessive haste that shenearly fell and broke her neck.Having come to the closet door, she made a stop for some time, thinkingabout her husband's orders, and considering what unhappiness might attendher if she was disobedient. but the temptation was so strong that shecould not overcome it. She then took the little key, and opened it,trembling. At first she could not see anything plainly, because thewindows were shut. After some moments she began to perceive that the floorwas all covered over with clotted blood, on which lay the bodies ofseveral dead women, ranged against the walls. (These were all the wiveswhom Bluebeard had married and murdered, one after another.) She thoughtshe should have died for fear, and the key, which she, pulled out of thelock, fell out of her hand.After having somewhat recovered her surprise, she picked up the key,locked the door, and went upstairs into her chamber to recover. but shecould not, so much was she frightened. Having observed that the key to thecloset was stained with blood, she tried two or three times to wipe itoff. but the blood would not come out. in vain did she wash it, and evenrub it with soap and sand. The blood still remained, for the key wasmagical and she could never make it quite clean. when the blood was goneoff from one side, it came again on the other.Bluebeard returned from his journey the same evening, saying that hehad received letters upon the road, informing him that the affair he wentabout had concluded to his advantage. His wife did all she could toconvince him that she was extremely happy about his speedy return.The next morning he asked her for the keys, which she gave him, butwith such a trembling hand that he easily guessed what had happened."What!" said he, "is not the key of my closet among the rest?""I must," said she, "have left it upstairs upon the table.""Fail not," said Bluebeard, "to bring it to me at once."After several goings backwards and forwards, she was forced to bringhim the key. Bluebeard, having very attentively considered it, said tohis wife, "Why is there blood on the key?""I do not know," cried the poor woman, paler than death."You do not know!" replied Bluebeard. "I very well know. You went intothe closet, did you not? Very well, madam. you shall go back, and takeyour place among the ladies you saw there."Upon this she threw herself at her husband's feet, and begged hispardon with all the signs of a true repentance, vowing that she wouldnever more be disobedient. She would have melted a rock, so beautiful andsorrowful was she. but Bluebeard had a heart harder than any rock!"You must die, madam," said he, "at once.""Since I must die," answered she (looking upon him with her eyes allbathed in tears), "give me some little time to say my prayers.""I give you," replied Bluebeard, "half a quarter of an hour, but notone moment more."When she was alone she called out to her sister, and said to her,"Sister Anne" (for that was her name), "go up, I beg you, to the top ofthe tower, and look if my brothers are not coming. They promised me thatthey would come today, and if you see them, give them a sign to makehaste."Her sister Anne went up to the top of the tower, and the poor afflictedwife cried out from time to time, "Anne, sister Anne, do you see anyonecoming?"And sister Anne said, "I see nothing but a cloud of dust in the sun,and the green grass."In the meanwhile Bluebeard, holding a great saber in his hand, criedout as loud as he could bawl to his wife, "Come down instantly, or I shallcome up to you.""One moment longer, if you please," said his wife. and then she criedout very softly, "Anne, sister Anne, do you see anybody coming?"And sister Anne answered, "I see nothing but a cloud of dust in thesun, and the green grass.""Come down quickly," cried Bluebeard, "or I will come up to you.""I am coming," answered his wife. and then she cried, "Anne, sisterAnne, do you not see anyone coming?""I see," replied sister Anne, "a great cloud of dust approachingus.""Are they my brothers?""Alas, no my dear sister, I see a flock of sheep.""Will you not come down?" cried Bluebeard."One moment longer," said his wife, and then she cried out, "Anne,sister Anne, do you see nobody coming?""I see," said she, "two horsemen, but they are still a great wayoff.""God be praised," replied the poor wife joyfully. "They are mybrothers. I will make them a sign, as well as I can for them to makehaste."Then Bluebeard bawled out so loud that he made the whole housetremble. The distressed wife came down, and threw herself at his feet, allin tears, with her hair about her shoulders."This means nothing," said Bluebeard. "You must die!" Then, takinghold of her hair with one hand, and lifting up the sword with the other,he prepared to strike off her head. The poor lady, turning about to him,and looking at him with dying eyes, desired him to afford her one littlemoment to recollect herself."No, no," said he, "commend yourself to God," and was just ready tostrike.At this very instant there was such a loud knocking at the gate thatBluebeard made a sudden stop. The gate was opened, and two horsemenentered. Drawing their swords, they ran directly to Bluebeard. He knewthem to be his wife's brothers, one a dragoon, the other a musketeer. sothat he ran away immediately to save himself. but the two brothers pursuedand overtook him before he could get to the steps of the porch. Then theyran their swords through his body and left him dead. The poor wife wasalmost as dead as her husband, and had not strength enough to rise andwelcome her brothers.Bluebeard had no heirs, and so his wife became mistress of all hisestate. She made use of one part of it to marry her sister Anne to a younggentleman who had loved her a long while. another part to buy captains'commissions for her brothers, and the rest to marry herself to a veryworthy gentleman, who made her forget the ill time she had passed withBluebeard.Moral:Curiosity, in spite of its appeal, often leads to deep regret. To thedispleasure of many a maiden, its enjoyment is short lived. Oncesatisfied, it ceases to exist, and always costs dearly.Another moral:Apply logic to this grim story, and you will ascertain that it tookplace many years ago. No husband of our age would be so terrible as todemand the impossible of his wife, nor would he be such a jealousmalcontent. For, whatever the color of her husband's beard, the wife oftoday will let him know who the master is.