Once upon a time there lived a king and queen who had no children. andthis they lamented very much. But one day, as the queen was walking bythe side of the river, a little fish lifted its head out of the water,and said, "Your wish shall be fulfilled, and you shall soon have adaughter."What the little fish had foretold soon came to pass. and the queen had alittle girl who was so very beautiful that the king could not ceaselooking on her for joy, and determined to hold a great feast. So heinvited not only his relations, friends, and neighbors, but also all thefairies, that they might be kind and good to his little daughter. Nowthere were thirteen fairies in his kingdom, and he had only twelvegolden dishes for them to eat out of, so that he was obliged to leaveone of the fairies without an invitation. The rest came, and after thefeast was over they gave all their best gifts to the little princess.one gave her virtue, another beauty, another riches, and so on till shehad all that was excellent in the world. When eleven had done blessingher, the thirteenth, who had not been invited, and was very angry onthat account, came in, and determined to take her revenge. So she criedout, "The king's daughter shall in her fifteenth year be wounded by aspindle, and fall down dead." Then the twelfth, who had not yet givenher gift, came forward and said that the bad wish must be fulfilled, butthat she could soften it, and that the king's daughter should not die,but fall asleep for a hundred years.But the king hoped to save his dear child from the threatened evil, andordered that all the spindles in the kingdom should be bought up anddestroyed. All the fairies' gifts were in the meantime fulfilled. forthe princess was so beautiful, and well behaved and amiable, and wise,that every one who knew her loved her.Now it happened that on the very day she was fifteen years old the kingand queen were not at home, and she was left alone in the palace. So sheroamed about by herself, and looked at all the rooms and chambers, tillat last she came to an old tower, to which there was a narrow staircaseending with a little door. In the door there was a golden key, and whenshe turned it the door sprang open, and there sat an old lady spinningaway very busily."Why, how now, good mother," said the princess, "what are you doingthere?""Spinning," said the old lady, and nodded her head. "How prettily thatlittle thing turns round!" said the princess, and took the spindle andbegan to spin. But scarcely had she touched it before the prophecy wasfulfilled, and she fell down lifeless on the ground.However, she was not dead, but had only fallen into a deep sleep. andthe king and the queen, who just then came home, and all their court,fell asleep too, and the horses slept in the stables, and the dogs inthe yard, and the pigeons on the house top, and the flies on the walls.Even the fire on the I hearth left off blazing, and went to sleep. andthe meat that was roasting stood still. and the cook, who was at thatmoment pulling the kitchen boy by the hair to give him a box on the earfor something he had done amiss, let him go, and both fell asleep. andso everything stood still, and slept soundly.A high hedge of thorns soon grew around the palace, and every year itbecame higher and thicker, till at last the whole palace was surroundedand hidden, so that not even the roof or the chimneys could be seen.But there went a report through all the land of the beautiful sleepingBriar Rose, for thus was the king's daughter called. so that from timeto time several kings' sons came, and tried to break through the thicketinto the palace.This they could never do. for the thorns and bushes laid hold of them asit were with hands, and there they stuck fast and died miserably.After many, many years there came another king's son into that land, andan old man told him the story of the thicket of thorns, and how abeautiful palace stood behind it, in which was a wondrous princess,called Briar Rose, asleep with all her court. He told, too, how he hadheard from his grandfather that many, many princes had come, and hadtried to break through the thicket, but had stuck fast and died.Then the young prince said, "All this shall not frighten me. I will goand see Briar Rose." The old man tried to dissuade him, but he persistedin going.Now that very day the hundred years were completed. and as the princecame to the thicket he saw nothing but beautiful flowering shrubs,through which he passed with ease, and they closed after him as firm asever.Then he came at last to the palace, and there in the yard lay the dogsasleep, and the horses in the stables, and on the roof sat the pigeonsfast asleep with their heads under their wings. and when he came intothe palace, the flies slept on the walls, and the cook in the kitchenwas still holding up her hand as if she would beat the boy, and the maidsat with a black fowl in her hand ready to be plucked.Then he went on still further, and all was so still that he could hearevery breath he drew. till at last he came to the old tower and openedthe door of the little room in which Briar Rose was, and there she layfast asleep, and looked so beautiful that he could not take his eyesoff, and he stooped down and gave her a kiss. But the moment he kissedher she opened her eyes and awoke, and smiled upon him.Then they went out together, and presently the king and queen alsoawoke, and all the court, and they gazed on each other with greatwonder.And the horses got up and shook themselves, and the dogs jumped aboutand barked. the pigeons took their heads from under their wings, andlooked about and flew into the fields. the flies on the walls buzzedaway. the fire in the kitchen blazed up and cooked the dinner, and theroast meat turned round again. the cook gave the boy the box on his earso that he cried out, and the maid went on plucking the fowl.And then was the wedding of the prince and Briar Rose celebrated, andthey lived happily together all their lives.