BROTHER took sister by the hand and said: 'Look here. we haven't had onesingle happy hour since our mother died. That stepmother of ours beatsus regularly every day, and if we dare go near her she kicks us away.We never get anything but hard dry crusts to eat why, the dog under thetable is better off than we are. She does throw him a good morsel or twonow and then. Oh dear! if our own dear mother only knew all about it!Come along, and let us go forth into the wide world together.'So off they started through fields and meadows, over hedges and ditches,and walked the whole day long, and when it rained sister said:'Heaven and our hearts are weeping together.'Towards evening they came to a large forest, and were so tired out withhunger and their long walk, as well as all their trouble, that theycrept into a hollow tree and soon fell fast asleep.Next morning, when they woke up, the sun was already high in the heavensand was shining down bright and warm into the tree. Then said brother:'I'm so thirsty, sister. if I did but know where to find a littlestream, I'd go and have a drink. I do believe I hear one.' He jumped up,took sister by the hand, and they set off to hunt for the brook.Now their cruel stepmother was in reality a witch, and she knewperfectly well that the two children had run away. She had creptsecretly after them, and had cast her spells over all the streams in theforest.Presently the children found a little brook dancing and glittering overthe stones, and brother was eager to drink of it, but as it rushed pastsister heard it murmuring:'Who drinks of me will be a tiger! who drinks of me will be a tiger!'So she cried out, 'Oh! dear brother, pray don't drink, or you'll beturned into a wild beast and tear me to pieces.'Brother was dreadfully thirsty, but he did not drink.'Very well,' said he, 'I'll wait till we come to the next spring.'When they came to the second brook, sister heard it repeating too:'Who drinks of me will be a wolf I who drinks of me will be a wolf!'And she cried, 'Oh! brother, pray don't drink here either, or you'll beturned into a wolf and eat me up.'Again brother did not drink, but he said:'Well, I'll wait a little longer till we reach the next stream, butthen, whatever you may say, I really must drink, for I can bear thisthirst no longer.'And when they got to the third brook, sister heard it say as it rushedpast:'Who drinks of me will be a roe! who drinks of me will be a roe!'And she begged, 'Ah! brother, don't drink yet, or you'll become a roeand run away from me.'But her brother was already kneeling by the brook and bending over it todrink, and, sure enough, no sooner had his lips touched the water thanhe fell on the grass transformed into a little Roebuck.Sister cried bitterly over her poor bewitched brother, and the littleRoe wept too, and sat sadly by her side. At last the girl said:'Never mind, dear little fawn, I will never forsake you,' and she tookoff her golden garter and tied it round the Roe's neck.Then she plucked rushes and plaited a soft cord of them, which shefastened to the collar. When she had done this she led the Roe fartherand farther, right into the depths of the forest.After they had gone a long, long way they came to a little house, andwhen the girl looked into it she found it was quite empty, and shethought 'perhaps we might stay and live here.'So she hunted up leaves and moss to make a soft bed for the little Roe,and every morning and evening she went out and gathered roots, nuts,and berries for herself, and tender young grass for the fawn. And hefed from her hand, and played round her and seemed quite happy. In theevening, when sister was tired, she said her prayers and then laid herhead on the fawn's back and fell sound asleep with it as a pillow. Andif brother had but kept his natural form, really it would have been amost delightful kind of life.They had been living for some time in the forest in this way, when itcame to pass that the King of that country had a great hunt through thewoods. Then the whole forest rang with such a blowing of horns, bayingof dogs, and joyful cries of huntsmen, that the little Roe heard it andlonged to join in too.'Ah!' said he to sister, 'do let me go off to the hunt! I can't keepstill any longer.'And he begged and prayed till at last she consented.'But,' said she, 'mind you come back in the evening. I shall lockmy door fast for fear of those wild huntsmen. so, to make sure of myknowing you, knock at the door and say, "My sister dear, open. I'mhere." If you don't speak I shan't open the door.'So off sprang the little Roe, and he felt quite well and happy in thefree open air.The King and his huntsmen soon saw the beautiful creature and started inpursuit, but they could not come up with it, and whenever they thoughtthey were sure to catch it, it bounded off to one side into the bushesand disappeared. When night came on it ran home, and knocking at thedoor of the little house cried:'My sister dear, open. I'm here.' The door opened, and he ran in andrested all night on his soft mossy bed.Next morning the hunt began again, and as soon as the little Roe heardthe horns and the 'Ho! ho! 'of the huntsmen, he could not rest anothermoment, and said:'Sister, open the door, I must get out.'So sister opened the door and said, 'Now mind and get back by nightfall,and say your little rhyme.'As soon as the King and his huntsmen saw the Roe with the golden collarthey all rode off after it, but it was far too quick and nimble forthem. This went on all day, but as evening came on the huntsmen hadgradually encircled the Roe, and one of them wounded it slightly in thefoot, so that it limped and ran off slowly.Then the huntsman stole after it as far as the little house, and heardit call out, 'My sister dear, open. I'm here,' and he saw the door openand close immediately the fawn had run in.The huntsman remembered all this carefully, and went off straight to theKing and told him all he had seen and heard.'To morrow we will hunt again,' said the King.Poor sister was terribly frightened when she saw how her little Fawn hadbeen wounded. She washed off the blood, bound up the injured foot withherbs, and said: 'Now, dear, go and lie down and rest, so that yourwound may heal.'The wound was really so slight that it was quite well next day, and thelittle Roe did not feel it at all. No sooner did it hear the sounds ofhunting in the forest than it cried:'I can't stand this, I must be there too. I'll take care they shan'tcatch me.'Sister began to cry, and said, 'They are certain to kill you, and then Ishall be left all alone in the forest and forsaken by everyone. I can'tand won't let you out.''Then I shall die of grief,' replied the Roe, 'for when I hear that hornI feel as if I must jump right out of my skin.'So at last, when sister found there was nothing else to be done, sheopened the door with a heavy heart, and the Roe darted forth full ofglee and health into the forest.As soon as the King saw the Roe, he said to his huntsman, 'Now then,give chase to it all day till evening, but mind and be careful not tohurt it.'When the sun had set the King said to his huntsman, 'Now come and showme the little house in the wood.'And when he got to the house he knocked at the door and said, 'My sisterdear, open. I'm here.' Then the door opened and the King walked in, andthere stood the loveliest maiden he had ever seen.The girl was much startled when instead of the little Roe she expectedshe saw a man with a gold crown on his head walk in. But the King lookedkindly at her, held out his hand, and said, 'Will you come with me to mycastle and be my dear wife?''Oh yes!' replied the maiden, 'but you must let my Roe come too. I couldnot possibly forsake it.''It shall stay with you as long as you live, and shall want fornothing,' the King promised.In the meantime the Roe came bounding in, and sister tied the rush cordonce more to its collar, took the end in her hand, and so they left thelittle house in the forest together.The King lifted the lonely maiden on to his horse, and led her to hiscastle, where the wedding was celebrated with the greatest splendour.The Roe was petted and caressed, and ran about at will in the palacegardens.Now all this time the wicked stepmother, who had been the cause of thesepoor children's misfortunes and trying adventures, was feeling fullypersuaded that sister had been torn to pieces by wild beasts, andbrother shot to death in the shape of a Roe. When she heard how happyand prosperous they were, her heart was filled with envy and hatred,and she could think of nothing but how to bring some fresh misfortuneon them. Her own daughter, who was as hideous as night and had only oneeye, reproached her by saying, 'It is I who ought to have had this goodluck and been Queen.''Be quiet, will you,' said the old woman. 'when the time comes I shallbe at hand.'Now after some time it happened one day when the King was out huntingthat the Queen gave birth to a beautiful little boy. The old witchthought here was a good chance for her. so she took the form of the ladyin waiting, and, hurrying into the room where the Queen lay in her bed,called out, 'The bath is quite ready. it will help to make you strongagain. Come, let us be quick, for fear the water should get cold.' Herdaughter was at hand, too, and between them they carried the Queen, whowas still very weak, into the bath room and laid her in the bath. thenthey locked the door and ran away.They took care beforehand to make a blazing hot fire under the bath, sothat the lovely young Queen might be suffocated.As soon as they were sure this was the case, the old witch tied a cap onher daughter's head and laid her in the Queen's bed. She managed, too,to make her figure and general appearance look like the Queen's, buteven her power could not restore the eye she had lost. so she madeher lie on the side of the missing eye, in order to prevent the King'snoticing anything.In the evening, when the King came home and heard the news of his son'sbirth, he was full of delight, and insisted on going at once to his dearwife's bedside to see how she was getting on. But the old witch criedout, 'Take care and keep the curtains drawn. don't let the light getinto the Queen's eyes. she must be kept perfectly quiet.' So the Kingwent away and never knew that it was a false Queen who lay in the bed.When midnight came and everyone in the palace was sound asleep, thenurse who alone watched by the baby's cradle in the nursery saw the dooropen gently, and who should come in but the real Queen. She lifted thechild from its cradle, laid it on her arm, and nursed it for some time.Then she carefully shook up the pillows of the little bed, laid the babydown and tucked the coverlet in all round him. She did not forget thelittle Roe either, but went to the corner where it lay, and gentlystroked its back. Then she silently left the room, and next morning whenthe nurse asked the sentries if they had seen any one go into the castlethat night, they all said, 'No, we saw no one at all.'For many nights the Queen came in the same way, but she never spoke aword, and the nurse was too frightened to say anything about her visits.After some little time had elapsed the Queen spoke one night, and said:'Is my child well? Is my Roe well?I'll come back twice and then farewell.'The nurse made no answer, but as soon as the Queen had disappeared shewent to the King and told him all. The King exclaimed, 'Good heavens!what do you say? I will watch myself to night by the child's bed.'When the evening came he went to the nursery, and at midnight the Queenappeared and said:'Is my child well? Is my Roe well?I'll come back once and then farewell.'And she nursed and petted the child as usual before she disappeared. TheKing dared not trust himself to speak to her, but the following night hekept watch again.That night when the Queen came she said:'Is my child well? Is my Roe well?I've come this once, and now farewell.'Then the King could restrain himself no longer, but sprang to her sideand cried, 'You can be no one but my dear wife!''Yes,' said she, 'I am your dear wife!' and in the same moment she wasrestored to life, and was as fresh and well and rosy as ever. Then shetold the King all the cruel things the wicked witch and her daughter haddone. The King had them both arrested at once and brought to trial,and they were condemned to death. The daughter was led into the forest,where the wild beasts tore her to pieces, and the old witch was burnt atthe stake.As soon as she reduced to ashes the spell was taken off the little Roe,and he was restored to his natural shape once more, and so brother andsister lived happily ever after.(6)(6) Grimm.