There was a time when Brer Lion was sort of playing overseer with theother creatures. It seems like he got the idea that allof them had to pay him a toll, because he was the strongest and the mostferocious. He claimed one out of every family: onesheep from the sheep, one goat from the goats, and one from all the kinds.By and by, after a long time, he sent word to Brer Rabbit that histurn had come, and Brer Rabbit sent back word thateverything was all right. Of course this made old Mrs. Rabbit and thechildren feel mighty bad. The children sat aroundwhimpering and sniffling, and old Mrs. Rabbit went about crying and wipingher eyes on her apron. But Brer Rabbit, he sat upand smoked his cigar and told them to quit worrying and to learn how tonot be afraid.He said, "Old woman, if I'm not back by suppertime, just set myvittles down there on the hearth so they'll keep sort ofwarm."Old Mrs. Rabbit said that instead of wanting vittles, he'd be vittleshimself, and then she sniffled worse and worse.But Brer Rabbit just hooted at her, and then he took down his walkingcane and set out to see Brer Lion.The little rabbits hollered out, "Good bye, daddy!" and Brer Rabbithollered back, "So long!"Old Mrs. Rabbit looked after him, she did, and then she flung herapron over her head and just boo hooed.But Brer Rabbit marched down the road as happy if he were going to afrolic. He marched on, he did, and just before hegot to the place where old Brer Lion stayed, he hid his walking cane inthe fence corner, rumpled up his hair, and drew himself inuntil he looked like he wasn't any bigger than a pound of soap after ahard day's washing.Then he went where there was a big, deep spring a little piece awayfrom the road, and he looked at himself in the water.He sort of pulled back his ears and made himself look topsy turvy, andthen he closed one eye and shook his fist at his reflectionin the water.He went back to the big road, he did, and crept along like he wasailing   limping first on one foot and then on the otherone, and by and by he came to the place where old Brer Lion was staying.Brer Rabbit sort of dragged himself along and made a bow. Brer Lionlooked at him sideways and asked him where he wasgoing. Brer Rabbit said he was all the more willing to come, became it washis turn, and he had been feeling poorly for a longtime. He talked mighty weak and trembly.Brer Lion looked at him closely and said, "You won't make a mouthful.It's time that I eat you. I'm just getting good andhungry."Brer Rabbit said, "Yes, sir. I know I'm not fat, and I suspect I havelots of fleas on me, but I'm mighty willing. I've got abad cough, and I'm tired of being sick. I'm just about as fat as the mulethe man had, and he had to tie a knot in its tail to keep itfrom slipping through the collar."Brer Lion looked at him and thought that Brer Rabbit was so scared hewas talking weaker and weaker.Brer Rabbit said, "While I was coming along just now I saw a creaturethat was almost as big and fat as you are, and I saidto myself that I wished to goodness that I was as fat as he was, so BrerLion could have a good dinner."Brer Lion said, "Who was he?"Brer Rabbit said, "I didn't ask him his name. He refused to respond tomy howdy, and he looked so ferocious that I got outof there."Brer Lion said, "Come, show me where he is."Brer Rabbit said, "I'd do it in a minute, Brer Lion, but I'm afraidhe'll hurt you."Brer Lion sort of bristled up at that. He said, "Hurt whom? Come onand go with me to where he is, and I'll show youwho'll get hurt, and that in short order!"Brer Rabbit shook his head. He said, "You'd better eat me, Brer Lion.I'm not much, but I'm something, and that othercreature that I saw will surely hurt you. He's got claws and he's gotteeth, because I saw them. Don't go where he is, Brer Lion,if you have any friendly feelings for your family. That creature willsurely cripple you!"This made Brer Lion mighty mad. He said, "Get right into the road andshow me where he is!"Brer Rabbit said, "Well, if I need to go, Brer Lion, I'll go. I toldyou so, and that's all I can do."They went on, they did, and Brer Rabbit took Brer Lion to the spring.When they got there, Brer Rabbit looked around and said, "He was rightaround here somewhere, and he's not so mightyfar off now, because I feel it in my bones."Then he crept up, he did, and looked into the spring. As he did this,he let out a yell and jumped back. "Ouch, Brer Lion!He's in there! Let's run! He'll get us for sure!"Brer Lion walked up to the spring and looked in. Sure enough, therewas a big creature looking back at him.Brer Lion hollered at him. The creature in the spring didn't sayanything. Brer Lion shook his head. The creature shook his.Brer Lion showed his teeth. The creature grinned at him. They kept on thisway until by and by Brer Lion got so mad that hejumped into the spring head foremost.When he was in there, he couldn't get out again, and so there he was,strangled with water and drowned for the want ofsense and breath.Brer Rabbit capered around there some little time, and then he put outfor home, and when he got there, he took hischildren on his knee and told them a mighty tale about how he made outwith old Brer Lion.