Brer Rabbit was a mighty man at a frolic. I don't expect he'd show upmuch in these days, but in the times when the creatures were bossing theirown jobs, Brer Rabbit was up for pretty nigh everything that was going on,if there wasn't too much work in it. There couldn't be a dance or aquilting anywhere around but what he'd be there. He was the first to comeand the last to go.Well, there was one time when he went too far and stayed too late,because a big rain came during the time when they were playing anddancing, and when Brer Rabbit put out for home, he found that a bigfreshet had come and gone. The drains had got to be creeks, the creeks hadgot to be rivers, and the rivers   well, I'm not going to tell you whatthe rivers were, because you'd think that I'd told the truth good bye.By making big jumps and going out of his way, Brer Rabbit managed toget as close to home as the creek, but when he got there, the creek was sowide that it made him feel like he'd been lost so long that his family hadforgotten him. Many and many a time he'd crossed that creek on a log, butthe log was gone, and the water was spread out all over creation. Thewater was wide, but that wasn't more than half   it looked like it wasthe wettest water that Brer Rabbit had ever laid eyes on.There was a ferry there for times like this, but it looked like it wasa bigger freshet than what they had counted on. Brer Rabbit, he sat on thebank and wiped the damp out of his face and eyes, and then he hollered forthe man that ran the ferry. He hollered and hollered, and by and by heheard someone answer him, and he looked a little closer, and there was theman   his name was Jerry   way up in the top limbs of a tree. And helooked still closer, and he saw that Jerry had company, because there wasold Brer Bear sitting at the foot of the tree waiting for Jerry to comedown, so he could tell him howdy.Well, sir, Brer Rabbit took notice that there was something more thandampness between them, and he started to holler again, and he hollered soloud and he hollered so long that he woke up old Brer Alligator.Now it didn't make old Brer Alligator feel good to be woken up at thathour, because he'd just had a nice supper of pine nuts and sweet potatoesand was lying out at full length on his mud bed. He allowed to himself, hedid, "Who in the nation is this trying to holler the bottom out of thecreek?"He listened, and then he turned over and listened again. He shut oneeye, and then he shut the other one, but there was no sleeping in thatneighborhood.Jerry in the tree, he hollered back, "Can't come   got company!"Brer Alligator, he heard this, and he said to himself that if nobodyelse can come, he can, and he rose to the top with no more fuss than afeatherbed makes when you leave it alone. He rose, he did, and his twoeyes looked exactly like two bullets floating on the water. He rose andwinked his eye and asked Brer Rabbit howdy, and more especially how washis daughter.Brer Rabbit, he said that there was no telling how his daughter was,because when he left home her head was swelling. He said that some of theneighbors' children had come and flung rocks at her and one of them hadhit her on top of the head right where the cowlick is, and he had had torun after the doctor.Brer Alligator allowed, "You don't tell me, Brer Rabbit, that it's cometo this! Your children getting chunked by your neighbors' children. Well,well, well! I wish you'd tell me where it's all going to end. Why it'llget after a while that there's no peace anywhere except at my house in thebed of the creek."Brer Rabbit said, "Isn't it the truth? And not only do Brer Fox'schildren chunk my children on their cowlicks, but no sooner have I goneafter the doctor than here comes the creek a rising. I may be wrong, butI'm not scared to say that it beats anything I have ever laid eyes on.Over yonder in the far wood is where my daughter is lying with a headache,and here is her pa, and between us is the boiling creek. If I were to tryto wade, ten to one the water would be over my head, and if that's notbad, all the pills that the doctor gave me would melt in my pocket. Andthey might poison me, because the doctor didn't say that they were to betaken outside."Old Brer Alligator floated on the water like he didn't weigh more thanone of these here postage stamps, and he tried to drop a tear. He groaned,he did, and floated backwards and forwards like a tired canoe.He said, "Brer Rabbit, if there ever was a rover, you are one. Up youcome and off you go, and there is no more keeping up with you than if youhad wings. If you think you can stay in one place long enough, I'll try toput you across the creek."Brer Rabbit kind of rubbed his chin while he wiggled his nose. Heallowed, said he, "Brer Gator, how deep is that water that you arefloating in?"Brer Alligator said, "Brer Rabbit, if my old woman and I were to joinheads, and I were to stand on the tip end of my tail, there'd still beroom enough for all of my children before we touched bottom."Brer Rabbit, he fell back like he was going to faint. He allowed, "BrerGator, you don't tell me! You surely don't mean those last words! Why youmake me feel like I'm further from home than those who are done lost forgood! How in the name of goodness are you going to put me across thisslippery water?"Brer Alligator, he blew a bubble or two out of his nose, and then hesaid, "If you can stand still in one place long enough, I'm going to takeyou across on my back. You needn't say "thank you," but I want you to knowthat I'm not everybody's water horse."Brer Rabbit allowed, said he, "I can well believe that, Brer Gator, butsomehow I kind of got a notion that your tail is mighty limber. I hear oldfolks say that you can knock a chip from the back of your head with thetip end of your tail and never half try."Brer Alligator smacked his mouth and said, "Limber my tail may be, BrerRabbit, and far reaching, but don't blame me. It was that way when it wasgiven to me. It's all jointed up according to nature."Brer Rabbit, he studied and he studied, and the more he studied, theworse he liked it. But he pleased to go home   there were no two waysabout that   and he allowed, said he, "I suspect what you say issomewhere in the neighborhood of the truth, Brer Gator, and more thanthat, I believe that I'll go along with you. If you'll ride up a littlecloser, I'll make up my mind, so I won't keep you waiting."Brer Alligator, he floated by the side of the bank the same as a corkout of a pickle bottle. He didn't do like he was in a hurry, because hedropped a word or two about the weather, and he said that the water wasmighty cold down there in the slushes. But Brer Rabbit took notice thatwhen he smiled one of his smiles, he showed up a double row of tusks thatlooked like they'd do mighty good work in a sawmill.Brer Rabbit, he began to shake like he was having a chill. He allowed,"I feel that damp, Brer Gator, that I might just as well be in water up tomy chin!"Brer Alligator didn't say anything, but he couldn't hide his tusks.Brer Rabbit looked up, he looked down, and he looked all around. Hescarcely knew what to do. He allowed, "Brer Gator, your back is mightyrough. How am I going to ride on it?"Brer Alligator said, "The roughness will help you to hold on, becauseyou'll have to ride a straddle. You can just get your feet on the bumpsand kind of brace yourself when you think you see a log floating at us.You can just sit up there the same as if you were sitting at home in yourrocking chair.Brer Rabbit shook his head, but he got on, he did, and he had no soonergotten on than he wished mighty hard that he was off.Brer Alligator said, "You can pant if you want to, but I'll do thepaddling," and he slipped through the water just like he was greased.Brer Rabbit sure was scared, but he kept his eyes open, and by and byhe took notice that Brer Alligator wasn't making for the place where thelanding was at, and he up and said so. He allowed, "Brer Gator, if I'mnot much mistaken, you're not heading for the landing."Brer Alligator said, "You sure have got mighty good eyes, Brer Rabbit.I've been waiting for you a long time, and I'm the worst kind of waiter. Imust know you haven't forgot that day in the stubble when you said youwere going to show me Old Man Trouble. Well, you didn't only show him tome, but you made me shake hands with him. You set the dry grass afire andburned me scandalously. That's the reason my back is so rough, and that'sthe reason my hide is so tough. Well, I've been a waiting since that time,and now here you are. You burned me until I had to quench the burning inthe big quagmire."Brer Alligator laughed, but he had the laugh all on his side, becausethat was one of the times when Brer Rabbit didn't feel like giggling. Hesat there a shaking and a shivering. By and by he allowed, said he, "Whatare you going to do, Brer Gator?"Brer Alligator said, "It looks to me like since you set the dry grassafire, I've been having symptoms. That's what the doctor said. He lookedat my tongue, and he felt my pulse, and he shook his head. He said thatbeings he's my friend, he didn't mind telling me that my symptoms aregetting worse than what they have been, and if I don't take something I'llbe falling into one of these here inclines that make folks flabby andweak."Brer Rabbit, he shook and he shivered. He allowed, "What else did thedoctor say, Brer Gator?"Brer Alligator kept on a slipping along. He said, "The doctor didn'tonly look at my tongue. He measured my breath, and he hit me on my bosom  tip tap tap!   and he said there was but one thing that will cure me.I asked him what it is, and he said it's rabbit gizzard."Brer Alligator slipped and slid along and waited to see what BrerRabbit was going to say to that. He didn't have to wait long, because BrerRabbit did his thinking like one of these here machines that has lightningin it. He allowed, he said, "It's a mighty good thing you struck up withme this day, Brer Gator, because I have exactly the kind of physic you arelooking for. All the neighbors say I'm mighty queer, and I suspect I am,but queer or not queer, I've long been looking for the gizzard eater."Brer Alligator didn't say anything. He just slid through the water andlistened to what Brer Rabbit was saying.Brer Rabbit allowed, he said, "The last time I took sick the doctorcame in a hurry, and he sat up with me all night   not a wink of sleepdid that man get. He said he could tell by the way I was going on, rollingand tossing, and moaning and groaning, that no physic was going to do meany good. I've never seen a doctor scratch his head like that doctor did.He acted like he was stumped, he sure did. He said he had never seenanybody with my kind of trouble, and he went off and called in one of hisbrer doctors, and the two knocked their heads together, and they said mytrouble all comes from having a double gizzard. When my old woman heardthat she just flung her apron over her head and fell back in a dead faint,and a little more and I'd have had to pay a doctor bill on her account.When she squalled, some of my children got scared and took to the wood,and they hadn't all got back when I left home last night."Brer Alligator, he just went a slipping along through the water. Helistened, but he didn't say anything.Brer Rabbit allowed, said he, "It's the fatal truth, all this that I'ma telling you. The doctor, he flew around until he fetched my old womanto, and then he said there was no need to be skittish on account of myhaving a double gizzard, because all I had to do was to be kind of carefulwith my chewings and gnawings, and my comings and goings. He said that I'dhave to suffer with it until I find the gizzard eater. I asked himwhereabouts he is, and he said that I'd know him when I see him, and if Ifail to know him, he'll make himself known to me. This kind of irritatesme, because when a man's a doctor, and he's got the idea of curinganybody, there is no need of dealing in riddles. But he said that therewas no use in telling all you know, especially before dinner."Brer Alligator went a sliding along through the water. He listened andsmacked his mouth, but he didn't say anything.Brer Rabbit, he talked on. He allowed, said he, "And there was onething he told me plainer than all the rest. He said that when anybody wasafflicted with the double gizzard, they daresn't cross water with it,because if there's anything that a double gizzard won't stand, it's thesmell of water."Brer Alligator went slipping along through the water, but he felt likethe time had come when he pleased to say something. He said, "How come youare crossing water now, if the doctor told you that?"This made Brer Rabbit laugh. He allowed, "Maybe I oughtn't tell you,but before I can cross water, that double gizzard has got to come out. Thedoctor told me that if she ever smells water, there'll be such a swellingup that my skin won't hold me. And no longer ago than last night, before Icame to cross this creek   it was a creek then, whatsoever you may callit now   I took out my double gizzard and hid it in a hickory hollow. Andif you are the gizzard eater, now is your chance, because if you put itoff, you may rue the day. If you are in the notion, I'll take you rightthere and show you the stump where I hid it at   and if you want to belonesome about it, I'll let you go by yourself and I'll stay righthere."Brer Alligator, he slipped and slid through the water. He said,"Where'd you say you'd stay?"Brer Rabbit allowed, said he, "I'll stay right here, Brer Gator, oranywhere else you may choose. I don't care much where I stay or what I do,so long as I get rid of that double gizzard that's been a terrifying me.You better go by yourself, because bad as that double gizzard has done me,I got kind of a tendersome feeling for it, and I'm afraid if I were to goalong with you and see you grab it, there'd be some boo hooing done. Ifyou go by yourself, just rap on the stump and say, 'If you are ready, I'mready and a little more so,' and you won't have any trouble with her.She's hid right in those woods yonder, and the hollow hickory stump isn'tso mighty far from where the bank of the creek ought to be."Brer Gator didn't have much more sense than what it'd take to climb afence after someone had pulled it down, and so he kind of slewed himselfaround and steered for the woods   the same woods where there are so manytrees, and where old Sis Owl starts all the whirlwinds by fanning herwings. Brer Alligator swam and steered until he came close to land, andwhen he did that, Brer Rabbit made a big jump and landed on solid ground.He might have got his feet wet, but if he did, that was all. He allowed,said he:You poor old Gator, if you'd have known A from Izzard,You'd know mighty well that I'd keep my Gizzard.And with that he was done gone   done clean gone!