One day Brer Rabbit was going along the road studying how he was goingto hold his own with Brer Fox when he saw a great big horse lyingstretched out flat on his side in the pasture. He crept up, he did, to seeif this horse had gone and died. He crept up, and he crept around, and byand by he saw the horse switch his tail, and then Brer Rabbit knew hewasn't dead. With that, Brer Rabbit loped back to the big road, and almostthe first man he saw going by was Brer Fox.Brer Rabbit, he took after him, and hollered, "Brer Fox! O Brer Fox!Come back! I've got some good news for you. Come back, Brer Fox," hesaid.Brer Fox, he turned around, he did, and when he saw who was calling himhe came galloping back, because it seemed like this was just as good atime as any to nab Brer Rabbit. But before he got within nabbing distance,Brer Rabbit, he up and said, "Come on, Brer Fox! I just found the placewhere you can lay in fresh meat enough to last you plumb until the middleof next year," he said.Brer Fox, he asked where it was, and Brer Rabbit, he said, "Right overthere in the pasture," and Brer Fox asked what it was, and Brer Rabbitsaid it was a whole horse lying down on the ground where they could catchhim and tie him up.With that, Brer Fox said, "Come on," and off they went.When they got there, sure enough, they lay the horse all stretched outin the sun fast asleep, and then Brer Fox and Brer Rabbit had a disputeabout how they were going to fix the horse so he could not get loose. Onesaid one way and the other said another way, and so it was until after awhile Brer Rabbit said, "The only plan I can think of, Brer Fox, is foryou to go down there and let me tie you to the horse's tail," he said. "IfI were a big man like you are," said Brer Rabbit, "you could tie me to thehorse's tail, and if I didn't hold him down, then Joe's dead and Sal's awidow. I just know that you can hold him down," said Brer Rabbit. "But ifyou are afraid, we had just better drop this idea and study out some otherplan," he said.Brer Fox was sort of dubious about this, but it pleased him to playbiggity in front of Brer Rabbit, and he agreed to the plan. Then BrerRabbit, he took and tied Brer Fox to the horse's tail, and after he hadhim tied there hard and fast, he sort of stepped back, he did, and put hishands akimbo, and grinned, and then he said, "If there ever was a caughthorse then it is this one that we caught. It sort of looks like we put thebridle on the wrong end."With that Brer Rabbit cut himself a long switch and trimmed it up. Whenhe had it fixed, he stepped up and hit the horse a rap   pow! Thehorse was so surprised at this that he made one jump and landed on hisfeet. When he did that, there was Brer Fox dangling in the air.Brer Rabbit, he darted out of the way and hollered, "Hold him down,Brer Fox! Hold him down! I'll stand out here and not get in your way. Holdhim down, Brer Fox! Hold him down!"Of course, when the horse felt Brer Fox hanging there on his tail, hethought something was the matter, and this made him jump and rear worseand worse, and he shook up Brer Fox just like he was a rag in the wind,and Brer Rabbit, he jumped and hollered, "Hold him down, Brer Fox! Holdhim down! You've got him now! Hold your grip, and hold him down!" hesaid.The horse, he jumped ,and he jumped, and he ripped, and he reared, andhe snorted, and he tore. But Brer Fox kept hanging on, and Brer Rabbitkept skipping around hollering, "Hold him down, Brer Fox! You've got himwhere he can't get away. Hold him down, Brer Fox!" he said.By and by, when Brer Fox got the chance, he hollered back, he did, "Howin the name of goodness am I going to hold the horse down unless I get myclaws in the ground?"Then Brer Rabbit, he stood back a little further and hollered a littlelouder, "Hold him down, Brer Fox! Hold him down! You've got him now! Holdhim down!"By and by the horse began to kick with his hind legs, and the firstthing you know, he fetched Brer Fox a lick in the stomach that fairly madehim squall, and then he kicked him again, and this time he broke Brer Foxloose, and sent him a whirling. and Brer Rabbit, he kept on a jumpingaround and hollering, "Hold him down, Brer Fox!""Did the fox get killed, Uncle Remus?" asked the littleboy."He wasn't exactly killed, honey," replied the old man, "buthe was next door to it. He was all broken up, and while he was gettingwell, it sort of came across his mind that Brer Rabbit and done and playeda trick on him."