Well, there was once a very rich gentleman, and he'd three darters(daughters). And he thought to see how fond they was of him. So he says tothe first, "How much do you love me, my dear?""Why," says she, "as I love my life.""That's good," says he. So he says to the second, "How much do you loveme, my dear?""Why," says she, "better nor all the world.""That's good," says he.So he says to the third, "How much do you love me, my dear?""Why," she says, "I love you as fresh meat loves salt," says she.Well, he were that angry. "You don't love me at all," says he, "and inmy house you stay no more." So he drove her out there and then, and shutthe door in her face.Well, she went away, on and on, till she came to a fen. And there shegathered a lot of rushes, and made them into a cloak kind o', with a hoodto cover her from head to foot, and to hide her fine clothes. And then shewent on and on till she came to a great house."Do you want a maid?" says she."No, we don't," says they."I hain't nowhere to go," says she, "and I'd ask no wages, and do anysort o' work," says she."Well," says they, "if you like to wash the pots and scrape thesaucepans, you may stay," says they.So she stayed there, and washed the pots and scraped the saucepans, anddid all the dirty work. And because she gave no name, they called her Capo' Rushes.Well, one day there was to be a great dance a little way off, and theservants was let go and look at the grand people. Cap o' Rushes said shewas too tired to go, so she stayed at home.But when they was gone, she offed with her cap o' rushes, and cleanedherself, and went to the dance. And no one there was so finely dressed asher.Well, who should be there but her master's son, and what should he dobut fall in love with her, the minute he set eyes on her. He wouldn'tdance with anyone else.But before the dance were done, Cap o' Rushes she stepped off, and awayshe went home. And when the other maids was back, she was framin'(pretending) to be asleep with her cap o' rushes on.Well, next morning, they says to her, "You did miss a sight, Cap o'Rushes!""What was that?" says she."Why the beautifullest lady you ever see, dressed right gay and ga'.The young master, he never took his eyes off of her.""Well, I should ha' liked to have seen her," says Cap o' Rushes."Well, there's to be another dance this evening, and perhaps she'll bethere."But come the evening, Cap o' Rushes said she was too tired to go withthem. Howsumdever, when they was gone, she offed with her cap o' rushes,and cleaned herself, and away she went to the dance.The master's son had been reckoning on seeing her, and he danced withno one else, and never took his eyes off of her.But before the dance was over, she slipped off, and home she went, andwhen the maids came back, she framed to be asleep with her cap o' rusheson.Next day they says to her again, "Well, Cap o' Rushes, you should ha'been there to see the lady. There she was again, gay an' ga', and theyoung master he never took his eyes off of her."Well there," says she, "I should ha' liked to ha' seen her.""Well," says they, "there's a dance again this evening, and you must gowith us, for she's sure to be there."Well, come the evening, Cap o' Rushes said she was too tired to go, anddo what they would, she stayed at home. But when they was gone, she offedwith her cap o' rushes, and cleaned herself, and away she went to thedance.The master's son was rarely glad when he saw her. He danced with nonebut her, and never took his eyes off her. When she wouldn't tell him hername, nor where she came from, he gave her a ring, and told her if hedidn't see her again he should die.Well, afore the dance was over, off she slipped, and home she went, andwhen the maids came home she was framing to be asleep with her cap o'rushes on.Well, next day they says to her, "There, Cap o' Rushes, you didn't comelast night, and now you won't see the lady, for there's no more dances."Well, I should ha' rarely liked to ha' seen her," says she.The master's son he tried every way to find out where the lady wasgone, but go where he might, and ask whom he might, he never heard nothingabout her. And he got worse and worse for the love of her till he had tokeep his bed."Make some gruel for the young master," they says to the cook. "He'sdying for love of the lady."The cook she set about making it, when Cap o' Rushes came in."What are you a' doin' on?" says she."I'm going to make some gruel for the young master," says the cook,"for he's dying for love of the lady.""Let me make it," says Cap o' Rushes.Well, the cook wouldn't at first, but at last she said "yes," and Capo' Rushes made the gruel. And when she had made it, she slipped the ringinto it on the sly, before the cook took it upstairs.The young man, he drank it, and saw the ring at the bottom."Send for the cook," says he. So up she comes."Who made this here gruel?" says he."I did," says the cook, for she were frightened, and he looked at her."No, you didn't," says he. "Say who did it, and you shan't be harmed.""Well, then, 'twas Cap o' Rushes," says she.So Cap o' Rushes came."Did you make the gruel?" says he.""Yes, I did," says she."Where did you get this ring?" says she."From him as gave it me," says she."Who are you then?" says the young man."I'll show you," says she. And she offed with her cap o' rushes, andthere she was in her beautiful clothes.Well, the master's son he got well very soon, and they was to bemarried in a little time. It was to be a very grand wedding, and everyonewas asked, far and near. And Cap o' Rushes' father was asked. But shenever told nobody who she was.But afore the wedding she went to the cook, and say she, "I want you todress every dish without a mite o' salt.""That will be rarely nasty," says the cook."That don't signify," says she."Very well," says the cook.Well, the wedding day came, and they was married. And after they wasmarried, all the company sat down to their vittles.When they began to eat the meat, that was so tasteless they couldn'teat it. But Cap o' Rushes father, he tried first one dish and thenanother, and then he burst out crying."What's the matter?" said the master's son to him."Oh!" says he, "I had a daughter. And I asked her how much she lovedme. And she said, 'As much as fresh meat loves salt.' And I turned herfrom my door, for I thought she didn't love me. And now I see she loved mebest of all. And she may be dead for aught I know.""No, father, here she is," says Cap o' Rushes.And she goes up to him and puts her arms round him. And so they washappy ever after.