Once upon a time there was a youth named Frederick and a girl calledCatherine, who had married and lived together as a young couple. One dayFred said, "I am now going into the fields, dear Catherine, and by thetime I return let there be something hot upon the table, for I shall behungry, and something to drink, too, for I shall be thirsty.""Very well, dear Fred," said she, "go at once, and I will make all rightfor you."As soon, then, as dinner time approached, she took down a sausage out ofthe chimney, and putting it in a frying pan with batter, set it over thefire. Soon the sausage began to frizzle and spit while Catherine stoodby holding the handle of the pan and thinking. and among other thingsshe thought that while the sausage was getting ready she might go intothe cellar and draw some beer. So she took a can and went down into thecellar to draw the beer, and while it ran into the can, she bethoughtherself that perhaps the dog might steal the sausage out of the pan, andso up the cellar stairs she ran, but too late, for the rogue had alreadygot the meat in his mouth and was sneaking off. Catherine, however,pursued the dog for a long way over the fields, but the beast wasquicker than she, and would not let the sausage go, but bolted off at agreat rate. "Off is off!" said Catherine, and turned round, and beingvery tired and hot, she went home slowly to cool herself. All this whilethe beer was running out of the cask, for Catherine had forgotten toturn the tap off, and so, as soon as the can was full, the liquor ranover the floor of the cellar until it was all out. Catherine saw themisfortune at the top of the steps. "My gracious!" she exclaimed. "whatshall I do that Fred may not find this out?" She considered for sometime till she remembered that a sack of fine malt yet remained from thelast brewing, in one corner, which she would fetch down and strew aboutin the beer. "Yes," said she, "it was spared at the right time to beuseful to me now in my necessity". and down she pulled the sack sohastily that she overturned the can of beer for Fred, and away it mixedwith the rest on the floor. "It is all right," said she, "where one is,the other should be," and she strewed the malt over the whole cellar.When it was done she was quite overjoyed at her work, and said, "Howclean and neat it does look, to be sure!"At noontime Fred returned. "Now, wife, what have you ready for me?" saidhe. "Ah, my dear Fred," she replied, "I would have fried you a sausage,but while I drew the beer the dog stole it out of the pan, and while Ihunted the dog the beer all ran out, and as I was about to dry up thebeer with the malt I overturned your can. but be contented, the cellaris quite dry again now.""Oh, Catherine, Catherine!" said Fred. "you should not have done so! tolet the sausage be stolen! and the beer run out! and over all to shootour best sack of malt!""Well, Fred," said she, "I did not know that. you should have told me."But the husband thought to himself, if one's wife acts so, one must lookafter things oneself. Now, he had collected a tolerable sum of silverdollars, which he changed into gold, and then he told his wife, "Do yousee, these are yellow counters which I will put in a pot and bury in thestable under the cow's stall. but mind that you do not meddle with it,or you will come to some harm."Catherine promised to mind what he said, but as soon as Fred was gonesome hawkers came into the village with earthenware for sale, andamongst others they asked her if she would purchase anything. "Ah, goodpeople," said Catherine, "I have no money, and cannot buy anything, butif you can make use of yellow counters I will buy them.""Yellow counters! ah! why not? Let us look at them," said they."Go into the stable," she replied, "and dig under the cows stall, andthere you will find the yellow counters. I dare not go myself."The rogues went at once, and soon dug up the shining gold which theyquickly pocketed, and then they ran off, leaving behind them their potsand dishes in the house. Catherine thought she might as well make use ofthe new pottery, and since she had no need of anything in the kitchen,she set out each pot on the ground, and then put others on the top ofthe palings round the house for ornament. When Fred returned, and sawthe fresh decorations, he asked Catherine what she had done. "I havebought them, Fred," said she, "with the yellow counters which lay underthe cow's stall. but I did not dig them up myself. the pedlars didthat.""Ah, wife, what have you done?" replied Fred. "They were not counters,but bright gold, which was all the property we possessed: you should nothave done so.""Well, dear Fred," replied his wife, "you should have told me so before.I did not know that."Catherine stood considering for awhile, and presently she began, "Come,Fred, we will soon get the gold back again. let us pursue the thieves.""Well, come along," said Fred. "we will try at all events. but takebutter and cheese with you, that we may have something to eat on ourjourney.""Yes, Fred," said she, and soon made herself ready. but, her husbandbeing a good walker, she lagged behind. "Ah!" said she, "this is myluck, for when we turn back I shall be a good bit forward." Presentlyshe came to a hill, on both sides of which there were very deep ruts."Oh, see!" said she, "how the poor earth is torn, flayed, and wounded.it will never be well again all its life!" And out of compassion shetook out her butter, and greased the ruts over right and left, so thatthe wheels might run more easily through them, and, while she stooped indoing this, a cheese rolled out of her pocket down the mountain.Catherine said when she saw it, "I have already once made the journeyup, and I am not coming down after you: another shall run and fetchyou." So saying, she took another cheese out of her pocket and rolled itdown. but as it did not return, she thought, "Perhaps they are waitingfor a companion and don't like to come alone". and down she bowled athird cheese. Still all three stayed, and she said, "I cannot think whatthis means. perhaps it is that the third cheese has missed his way: Iwill send a fourth, that he may call him as he goes by." But this oneacted no better than the others, and Catherine became so anxious thatshe threw down a fifth and a sixth cheese also, and they were the last.For a long time after this she waited, expecting they would come, butwhen she found they did not she cried out, "You are nice fellows to sendafter a dead man! you stop a fine time! but do you think I shall waitfor you? Oh, no! I shall go on. you can follow me. you have younger legsthan I."So saying, Catherine walked on and came up with Fred, who was waitingfor her, because he needed something to eat. "Now," said he, "give mequickly what you brought." She handed him the dry bread. "Where are thebutter and cheese?" cried her husband. "Oh, Fred, dear," she replied,"with the butter I have smeared the ruts, and the cheeses will sooncome, but one ran away, and I sent the others after it to call it back!""It was silly of you to do so," said Fred, "to grease the roads withbutter, and to roll cheese down the hill!""If you had but told me so," said Catherine, vexedly.So they ate the dry bread together, and presently Fred said, "Catherine,did you make things fast at home before you came out?""No, Fred," said she, "you did not tell me.""Then go back and lock up the house before we go farther. bringsomething to eat with you, and I will stop here for you."Back went Catherine, thinking, "Ah! Fred will like something else toeat. Butter and cheese will not please. I will bring with me a bag ofdried apples and a mug of vinegar to drink." When she had put thesethings together she bolted the upper half of the door, but the underdoor she raised up and carried away on her shoulder, thinking thatcertainly the house was well protected if she took such good care of thedoor! Catherine walked along now very leisurely, for, said she toherself, "Fred will have all the longer rest!" and as soon as shereached him she gave him the door, saying, "There, Fred, now you havethe house door you can take care of the house yourself.""Oh! my goodness," exclaimed the husband, "what a clever wife I have!She has bolted the top door, but brought away the bottom part, where anyone can creep through! Now it is too late to go back to the house, butsince you brought the door here you may carry it onward.""The door I will willingly carry," replied Catherine, "but the applesand the vinegar will be too heavy, so I shall hang them on the door andmake that carry them!"Soon after they came into a wood and looked about for the thieves, butthey, could not find them, and when it became dark they climbed up intoa tree to pass the night. But scarcely had they done this when up camethe fellows who carried away what should not go with them, and findthings before they are lost. They laid themselves down right under thetree upon which Fred and Catherine were, and making a fire, prepared toshare their booty. Then Fred slipped down on the other side, andcollected stones, with which he climbed the tree again, to beat thethieves with. The stones, however, did them no harm, for the fellowscalled out, "Ah! it will soon be morning, for the wind is shaking downthe chestnuts." All this while Catherine still had the door upon hershoulder, and, as it pressed very heavily, she thought the dried appleswere in fault, and said to Fred, "I must throw down these apples." "No,Catherine," said he, "not now, they might discover us." "Ah, I must,though, they are so heavy.""Well, then, do it in the hangman's name!" cried Fred.As they fell down the rogues said, "Ah! the birds are pulling off theleaves."A little while after Catherine said again, "Oh! Fred, I must pour outthe vinegar, it is so heavy.""No, no!" said he, "it will discover us.""Ah! but I must, Fred, it is very heavy," said Catherine."Well, then, do it in the hangman's name!" cried Fred.So she poured out the vinegar, and as it dropped on them the thievessaid, "Ah! the dew is beginning to fall."Not many minutes after Catherine found the door was still quite asheavy, and said again to Fred, "Now I must throw down this door.""No, Catherine," said he, "that would certainly discover us.""Ah! Fred, but I must. it presses me so terribly.""No, Catherine dear! do hold it fast," said Fred."There it is gone!" said she."Then let it go in the hangman's name!" cried Fred, while it fellcrashing through the branches. The rogues below thought the Evil One wasdescending the tree, and ran off, leaving everything behind them. Andearly in the morning Fred and his wife descended, and found all theirgold under the tree.As soon as they got home again, Fred said, "Now, Catherine, you must bevery industrious and work hard.""Yes, my dear husband," said she. "I will go into the fields to cutcorn." When she was come into the field she said to herself, "Shall Ieat before I cut, or sleep first before I cut?" She determined to eat,and soon became so sleepy over her meal that when she began to cut sheknew not what she was doing, and cut off half her clothes gown,petticoat and all. When, after a long sleep, Catherine awoke, she got uphalf stripped, and said to herself, "Am I myself? or am I not? Ah! I amnot myself." By and by night came on, and Catherine ran into thevillage, and, knocking at her husband's window, called, "Fred!""What is the matter?" cried he."I want to know if Catherine is indoors!" said she."Yes, yes!" answered Fred, "she is certainly within, fast asleep.""Then I am at home," said she, and ran away.Standing outside Catherine found some thieves, wanting to steal, andgoing up to them she said, "I will help you."At this the thieves were very glad, not doubting but that she knew whereto light on what they sought. But Catherine, stepping in front of thehouses, called out, "Good people, what have you that we can steal?" Atthis the thieves said, "You will do for us with a vengeance!" and theywished they had never come near her. but in order to rid themselves ofher they said, "Just before the village the parson has some roots lyingin his field. go and fetch some."Catherine went as she was bid, and began to grub for them, and soon madeherself very dirty with the earth. Presently a man came by and saw her,and stood still, for he thought it was the Evil One who was grovellingso among the roots. Away he ran into the village to the parson, and toldhim the Evil One was in his field, rooting up the turnips. "Ah!heavens!" said the parson, "I have a lame foot, and I cannot go out toexorcize him.""Then I will carry you a pickaback," said the man, and took him up.Just as they arrived in the field, Catherine got up and drew herself upto her full height."Oh! it is the Evil One!" cried the parson, and both he and the manhurried away. and, behold! the parson ran faster with his lame legs,through fear and terror, than the countryman could with his sound legs!