Once upon a time there lived a witty orphan whose name was Cecilio. His parents had died when he was six years old. After that time he became a servant of Emilio, a man of wealth living in a very lonely and desolate barrio. The boy was faithful and kind hearted, but his master was cruel. Cecilio had no wages at all.In short, he served Emilio for four years, and at the end of that time he was given five hundred centavos as a payment for his services. Cecilio thought that he had been given too much: he was so simple minded, that he did not know he had been cheated by his master, who should have given him ten times five hundred centavos.Cecilio put his money in a new purse, and rushed out into the main road of the barrio to find his companions and tell them of the reward he had received. He was so very happy, that before he knew it, and without feeling at all tired, he had reached another barrio. Suddenly on his way he met two men with drawn bolos.They stopped him, and said, "Boy, your money, or your life!"Cecilio was much amazed at these words, but was also so frightened that he gave up the money at once.He only said to himself, "Well, since I am not strong enough to defend myself, I either have to surrender my money or die."He sat under a tree lamenting his fortune. But the two robbers were in trouble, because one of them wanted a greater share than the other.The second robber said that their shares should be the same, for they had stolen the money together. but the former answered, "I am in all respects better than you are.""Oh, no! for we have not yet had a trial," said the second.At this they began to fight. and soon both fell so severely wounded, that they died before Cecilio, who had heard the noise of the struggle, could reach the place where they were disputing.Now the boy was very happy again, for he had gotten his money back. As he had already travelled very far, he did not know where he was: he was lost.But he proceeded along the road until he met another man, who said roughly to him, "Give me your money, or else you will die!"Cecilio, thinking that he would rather live than try to defend his wealth, which he would lose in any case, gave his purse to the man. Then the boy went away and wept.While he was crying over his bad luck, a very old woman came near him, and said, "Why are you weeping, my boy?"The boy replied, "I am weeping because somebody took my money.""Well, why did you give it up?" said the old woman."I gave it up because he said that he would kill me if I didn't."Then the old woman said, "Take this cane with you, and whenever you see him, let it loose and pronounce these words: ' Sigue garrole, sigue garrote, Strike that fellow over there!' When you want the cane to stop, all you need to say is: 'Stop, stop, for that is enough!'"The boy then said, "Is that all?""After you have recovered your money," said the old woman, "you must turn back here. but you had better hurry up now."Cecilio then bade the old woman good by, and at once ran away to overtake the man who had robbed him.When he saw the man, he said, "Give me back my money, or else you now shall die, and not I!"The man laughed at him, and said, "Of course I shall not give you back your money."When he heard these words, the boy said, "Is that so?" and, letting go of his cane, he uttered the formula that the old woman had told him to pronounce.The cane at once began to rain blows on the stranger's head and body.When he could no longer endure the blows, and saw that he could not catch the stick, the man said, "If you will call off your cane, I will return your purse.""Very well, I will pardon you," said Cecilio. "but if you had treated me as you should have treated me and others, you would not have been harmed."Then he said to the cane, "Stop, stop, for that is enough!"At once the magic stick stopped, and returned to its owner. The money was given back, and the man promised Cecilio that he would not rob any poor boy again.On his way back toward the old woman, Cecilio met another man who wanted to rob him. but the boy said, "Don't you dare attempt to take my purse, or you will get yourself into trouble!"The man became angry, and rushed at Cecilio to knock him down. but the boy pronounced the words which the old woman had taught him, and let the cane loose. The cane at once began to rain blows on the man's head and body. When he could no longer endure the pain, the man asked Cecilio's pardon. As the youth was kind hearted, he forgave the man.When he reached the old woman's house, Cecilio told her that the cane had been very useful to him, for it had saved both his life and his money. Then he returned the stick to the old woman, and thanked her very much.She now offered to sell him a guitar which she had, the price of which was five hundred centavos. Since she had been so good to him, Cecilio at once agreed to the exchange. and after he had once more bade her good by, he set out for his master's house.When he came near his old home, Cecilio saw his master Emilio shooting at a very handsome bird on the top of a bamboo tree. The bird fell down, and the man ran to pick it up. As Emilio was making his way up to the bird through the thorny bamboo undergrowth, Cecilio sat down to wait for him, and, having nothing else to do, began to play his guitar. The master at once began to dance among the bamboo trees, and he received many wounds because of the sharp spines.Now, in reality, the boy was playing his guitar unintentionally, and did not know of its magic power. but Emilio thought that Cecilio had discovered the deceit that had been practised on him, and was playing for revenge. Now, it happened that Emilio had a purse of money with him to give to the laborers working in his hacienda, so he promised to give all this money to Cecilio if he would only stop playing. The boy, who had by this time learned of the magic power of his guitar, stopped his music and received the money.The crafty Emilio, however, at once hastened to the town, and asked the magistrate to apprehend Cecilio, a young robber. Cecilio set out for the old woman's house again. but the policemen soon overtook him, arrested him, and took him before the magistrate. There the boy was sentenced to death the next morning. Emilio's money was given back to him.The following day, when he was about to be shot, Cecilio asked permission to play his guitar once more, and he was not refused it. As soon as he began to play, all began to dance, even his master, who was still sore from the previous day's exercise.Finally Emilio could endure no more. He begged Cecilio to stop playing, and promised to give him all his wealth. He then told the soldiers to set the boy free, for it was all his own fault. Cecilio stopped playing, and was liberated by the magistrate.Emilio kept his word, and bestowed on the boy all his wealth. When the old man died, Cecilio was the richest man in the town. He be came a capitan, and was greatly honored by the inhabitants of his barrio.