Once upon a time there was a rich man who lived happily for a long timewith his wife. Together they had a single daughter. Then the woman becameill, and when she was lying on her deathbed, she called her daughter toher side, and said, "Dear child, I must leave you now, but I will lookdown on you from heaven. Plant a little tree on my grave, and when youwant something, just shake the tree, and you shall get what you want. Iwill help you in time of need. Just remain pious and good." Then sheclosed her eyes and died. The child cried, and planted a little tree onher mother's grave. She did not need to carry any water to it, because hertears provided all the water that it needed.The snow fell over the mother's grave like a white cloth. then afterthe sun had retired from it a second time, and the little tree had becomegreen a second time, the man took another wife.The stepmother already had two daughters by her first husband. Theywere beautiful to look at, but in their hearts they were proud, arrogant,and evil. After the wedding was over, the three moved into the man'shouse, and times grew very bad for his poor child."What is that useless creature doing in the best room?" asked thestepmother. "Away to the kitchen with her! And if she wants to eat, thenshe must earn it. She can be our maid."Her stepsisters took her dresses away from her and made her wear an oldgray skirt. "That is good enough for you!" they said, making fun of herand leading her into the kitchen. Then the poor child had to do the mostdifficult work. She had to get up before sunrise, carry water, make thefire, cook, and wash. To add to her misery, her stepsisters ridiculed herand then scattered peas and lentils into the ashes, and she had to spendthe whole day sorting them out again. At night when she was tired, therewas no bed for her to sleep in, but she had to lie down next to the hearthin the ashes. Because she was always dirty with ashes and dust, they gaveher the name Cinderella .The time came when the king announced a ball. It was to last, in allsplendor, for three days, and there his son, the prince, would choose awife for himself. The two proud sisters were invited. "Cinderella," theycried, "Come here. Comb our hair. Brush our shoes, and tighten our laces.We are going to the prince's ball."Cinderella did the best that she could, but they rewarded her only withcurses. When they were ready, they said with scorn, "Cinderella, wouldn'tyou like to go to the ball?""Oh, yes. But how can I go? I don't have a dress.""No," said the oldest one, "and we would be ashamed if you were to beseen there, and people learned that you are our sister. You belong in thekitchen. Here is a basin of lentils. Sort the good ones from the bad ones,and if there is a single bad one in the lot when we return, you can expectthe worst."With that, they left. Cinderella stood and watched until she could nolonger see them. Then she sadly went into the kitchen and spread thelentils out over the hearth. There was a very, very large pile of them."Oh," she said with a sigh. "I'll have to sit here sorting lentils untilmidnight, and I can't close my eyes, no matter how much they hurt. If onlymy mother knew about this!"She kneeled down in the ashes next to the hearth and was about to beginher work when two white pigeons flew in through the window. They lit onthe hearth next to the lentils. Nodding their heads, they said,"Cinderella, do you want us to help you sort the lentils?""Yes," she answered:The bad ones go into your crop,The good ones go into the pot.And peck, peck, peck, peck, they started at once, eating up the badones and leaving the good ones lying. In only a quarter of an hour therewas not a single bad lentil among the good ones, and she brushed them allinto the pot.Then the pigeons said to her, "Cinderella, if you would like to seeyour sisters dancing with the prince, just climb up to the pigeon roost."She followed them and climbed to the top rung of the ladder to the pigeonroost. There she could see into the hall, and she saw her sisters dancingwith the prince. Everything glistened by the glow of a thousand lights.After she had seen enough, she climbed back down. With a heavy heart shelay down in the ashes and fell asleep.The next morning the two sisters came to the kitchen. They were angrywhen they saw that she had sorted the lentils, for they wanted to scoldher. Because they could not, they began telling her about the ball. Theysaid, "Cinderella, it was so grand at the ball. The prince, who is thebest looking man in the whole world, escorted us, and he is going tochoose one of us to be his wife.""Yes," said Cinderella, "I saw the glistening lights. It must have beenmagnificent.""Now just how did you do that?" asked the oldest one."By standing up there on the pigeon roost."When she heard this, her envy drove her to have the pigeon roost torndown immediately.Cinderella had to comb their hair and get them ready again. Theyoungest sister, who had a little sympathy in her heart, said,"Cinderella, when it gets dark you can go and look through the windowsfrom the outside.""No!" said the oldest one. "That would only make her lazy. Here is asackful of seeds. Sort the good ones from the bad ones, and do it well. Iftomorrow there are any bad ones in the lot, then I will dump the wholesackful into the ashes, and you will have to go without eating until youhave picked them all out again."Cinderella sadly sat down on the hearth and spread out the seeds. Thepigeons flew in again, and said, "Cinderella, do you want us to help yousort the seeds?""Yes," she answered:The bad ones go into your crop,The good ones go into the pot.Peck, peck, peck, peck, it went as fast as if twelve hands were atwork. When they were finished, the pigeons said, "Cinderella, would youlike to go dancing at the ball?""Oh, my goodness," she said, "how could I go in these dirty clothes?""Just go to the little tree on your mother's grave, shake it, and wishyourself some beautiful clothes. But come back before midnight."So Cinderella went and shook the little tree, and said:Shake yourself, shake yourself, little tree.Throw some nice clothing down to me!She had scarcely spoken these words when a splendid silver dress felldown before her. With it were pearls, silk stockings with silverdecorations, silver slippers, and everything else that she needed.Cinderella carried it all home. After she had washed herself and put onthe beautiful clothing, she was as beautiful as a rose washed in dew. Shewent to the front door, and there was a carriage with six black horses alldecorated with feathers, and servants dressed in blue and silver. Theyhelped her into the carriage, and away they galloped to the king's castle.The prince saw the carriage stop before the gate, and thought that aforeign princess was arriving. He himself walked down the steps, helpedCinderella out, and escorted her into the hall. Many thousand lights shoneupon her, and she was so beautiful that everyone there was amazed. Thesisters stood there, angry that someone was more beautiful than they were,but they had no idea that it was Cinderella, who they thought was lying athome in the ashes. The prince danced with Cinderella and paid her everyroyal honor. He thought to himself, "I am supposed to choose myself abride. I will have no one but her."However long she had suffered in ashes and sorrow, Cinderella was nowliving in splendor and joy. As midnight approached, before the clockstruck twelve, she stood up, bowed, and said that she had to go, in spiteof the prince's requests for her to stay. The prince escorted her out. Hercarriage stood there waiting for her. And she rode away just as splendidlyas she had come.Back at home, Cinderella returned to the tree on her mother'sgrave, and said:Shake yourself, shake yourself, little tree!Take the clothing back from me!The tree took back the clothes. Cinderella put on her oldash dress again, went home, dirtied her face, and lay down in the ashes tosleep.The next morning the two sisters came in looking out of sorts, andwithout saying a word. Cinderella said, "Did you have a good timeyesterday evening?""No. A princess was there who danced with the prince almost the wholetime, but no one knew who she was nor where she came from.""Was she the one in the splendid carriage drawn by six black horses?"asked Cinderella."How did you know that?""I was standing in the front door when she rode by the house.""In the future do not leave your work," said the oldest one, givingCinderella an evil look. "What were you doing, standing in the frontdoor?"Cinderella had to get her sisters ready a third time. Her reward was abasin filled with peas, which she was supposed to sort. "And do not dareto leave your work," shouted the oldest one, as she was leaving.Cinderella thought, "If only my pigeons will come again," and her heartbeat a little faster. The pigeons did come, just as they had the eveningbefore, and said, "Cinderella, would you like us to help you sort thepeas.""Yes," she said:The bad ones go into your crop,The good ones go into the pot.Once again the pigeons picked out the bad ones, and soon they werefinished. Then they said, "Cinderella, shake the little tree, and it willthrow down even more beautiful clothes. Go to the ball, but be careful tocome back before midnight." Cinderella went and said:Shake yourself, shake yourself, little tree.Throw some nice clothing down to me!Then a dress fell down that was even more magnificent and more splendidthan the other one, made entirely of gold and precious stones. With itwere stockings decorated with gold, and slippers made of gold. Cinderellaput them on, and she glistened like the sun at midday. A carriage with sixwhite horses pulled up at the door. The horses had tall white plumes ontheir heads, and the servants were dressed in red and gold.When Cinderella arrived, the prince was waiting for her at thestairway. He escorted her into the hall. If everyone had been astounded ather beauty yesterday, today they were even more astounded. The sistersstood in the corner, pale with envy. If they had known that this wasCinderella, who they thought was at home lying in the ashes, they wouldhave died of jealousy.The prince wanted to know who the foreign princess was, where she wasfrom, and where she was going. He placed his people in the street to keepwatch. To prevent her from running away so fast, he had the stairwaycovered with pitch. Cinderella danced with the prince again and again.Filled with joy, she did not think about midnight. Suddenly, in the middleof a dance, she heard the clock strike. She suddenly remembered what thepigeons had warned her. Frightened, she rushed to the door and ran downthe stairs. Because they were covered with pitch, one of her goldenslippers stuck fast, and in her fear she did not think to pick it up. Shereached the last step just as the clock struck twelve. The carriage andthe horses disappeared, and Cinderella was left standing there in the darkstreet dressed in her ash clothes.The prince had rushed after her. He found the golden slipper on thestairway, pulled it loose, and picked it up. But by the time he arrivedbelow, she had disappeared. The people whom he had ordered to keep watchcame and said that they had seen nothing.Cinderella was glad that it had not been worse. She returned home, lither simple oil lamp, hung it in the chimney, and lay down in the ashes.Before long the two sisters returned, and called out, "Cinderella, get upand light the way for us."Cinderella yawned and acted as though she had been asleep. Whilelighting their way, she heard one of them say, "God knows who the cursedprincess is. I wish that she were lying beneath the earth! The princedanced only with her, and after she left, he did not want to stay anylonger, and the whole party came to an end.""It was as though they suddenly blew out all the lights," said theother one. Cinderella knew exactly who the foreign princess was, but shedid not say a word.Now the prince decided that since nothing else had succeeded, he wouldlet the slipper help him find his bride. He had it proclaimed that hewould marry the person whose foot fit the golden slipper. But it was toosmall for everyone. Indeed, some could not have gotten their foot inside,if it had been twice as large. Finally it came time for the two sisters totry on the slipper. They were happy, for they had small, beautiful feet,and each one believed that she could not fail. "If only the prince wouldcome here sooner!" they thought."Listen," said the mother secretly. "Take this knife, and if theslipper is too tight, just cut off part of your foot. It will hurt alittle, but what harm is that? The pain will soon pass, and then one ofyou will be queen." Then the oldest one went to her bedroom and tried onthe slipper. The front of her foot went in, but her heel was too large, soshe took the knife and cut part of it off, so she could force her footinto the slipper. Then she went out to the prince, and when he saw thatshe was wearing the slipper, he said that she was to be his bride. Heescorted her to his carriage and was going to drive away with her. When hearrived at the gate, the two pigeons were perched above, and they calledout:Rook di goo, rook di goo!There's blood in the shoe.The shoe is too tight,This bride is not right!The prince bent over and looked at the slipper. Blood was streamingfrom it. He saw that he had been deceived, and he took the false brideback.The mother then said to her second daughter, "Take the slipper, and ifit is too short for you, then cut off your toes." So she took the slipperinto her bedroom, and because her foot was too long, she bit her teethtogether, and cut off a large part of her toes, then quickly pulled on theslipper. When she stepped out wearing it, the prince thought that she wasthe right one, and wanted to ride away with her. But when they came to thegate, the pigeons again called out:Rook di goo, rook di goo!There's blood in the shoe.The shoe is too tight,This bride is not right!The prince looked down and saw that her white stockings were stainedred, and that blood and had come up high on them. The prince took her backto her mother and said, "She is not the right bride either. Is there notanother daughter here in this house?""No," said the mother. "There is only a dirty cinder girl here. She issitting down there in the ashes. The slipper would never fit her." She didnot want to call her, but the prince insisted. So they called Cinderella,and when she heard that the prince was there, she quickly washed her handsand face. She stepped into the best room and bowed. The prince handed herthe golden slipper, and said, "Try it on. If it fits you, you shall be mywife." She pulled the heavy shoe from her left foot, then put her footinto the slipper, pushing ever so slightly. It fit as if it had beenpoured over her foot. As she straightened herself up, she looked into theprince's face, and he recognized her as the beautiful princess. He criedout, "This is the right bride." The stepmother and the two proud sistersturned pale with horror. The prince escorted Cinderella away. He helpedher into his carriage, and as they rode through the gate, the pigeonscalled out:Rook di goo, rook di goo!No blood's in the shoe.The shoe's not too tight,This bride is right!