The wife of a rich man fell sick: and when she felt that her end drewnigh, she called her only daughter to her bedside, and said, "Always bea good girl, and I will look down from heaven and watch over you." Soonafterwards she shut her eyes and died, and was buried in the garden. andthe little girl went every day to her grave and wept, and was alwaysgood and kind to all about her. And the snow spread a beautiful whitecovering over the grave. but by the time the sun had melted it awayagain, her father had married another wife. This new wife had twodaughters of her own: they were fair in face but foul at heart, and itwas now a sorry time for the poor little girl. "What does thegood for nothing thing want in the parlor?" said they. and they tookaway her fine clothes, and gave her an old frock to put on, and laughedat her and turned her into the kitchen.Then she was forced to do hard work. to rise early, before daylight, tobring the water, to make the fire, to cook and to wash. She had no bedto lie down on, but was made to lie by the hearth among the ashes, andthey called her Cinderella.It happened once that her father was going to the fair, and asked hiswife's daughters what he should bring to them. "Fine clothes," said thefirst. "Pearls and diamonds," said the second. "Now, child," said he tohis own daughter, "what will you have?" "The first sprig, dear father,that rubs against your hat on your way home," said she. Then he boughtfor the two first the fine clothes and pearls and diamonds they hadasked for: and on his way home, as he rode through a green copse, asprig of hazel brushed against him, so he broke it off and when he gothome he gave it to his daughter. Then she took it, and went to hermother's grave and planted it there, and cried so much that it waswatered with her tears. and there it grew and became a fine tree, andsoon a little bird came and built its nest upon the tree, and talkedwith her and watched over her, and brought her whatever she wished for.Now it happened that the king of the land held a feast which was to lastthree days, and out of those who came to it his son was to choose abride for himself. and Cinderella's two sisters were asked to come. Sothey called Cinderella, and said, "Now, comb our hair, brush our shoes,and tie our sashes for us, for we are going to dance at the king'sfeast." Then she did as she was told, but when all was done she couldnot help crying, for she thought to herself, she would have liked to goto the dance too, and at last she begged her mother very hard to let hergo, "You! Cinderella?" said she. "you who have nothing to wear, noclothes at all, and who cannot even dance you want to go to the ball?"And when she kept on begging, to get rid of her, she said at last, "Iwill throw this basinful of peas into the ash heap, and if you havepicked them all out in two hours' time you shall go to the feast too."Then she threw the peas into the ashes. but the little maiden ran out atthe back door into the garden, and cried out "Hither, thither, through the sky, turtle doves and linnets, fly!Blackbird, thrush, and chaffinch gay, hither, thither, haste away!One and all, come, help me quick! haste ye, haste ye pick, pick,pick!"Then first came two white doves. and next two turtle doves. and afterthem all the little birds under heaven came, and the little dovesstooped their heads down and set to work, pick, pick, pick. and then theothers began to pick, pick, pick, and picked out all the good grain andput it into a dish, and left the ashes. At the end of one hour the workwas done, and all flew out again at the windows. Then she brought thedish to her mother. But the mother said, "No, no! indeed, you have noclothes and cannot dance. you shall not go." And when Cinderella beggedvery hard to go, she said, "If you can in one hour's time pick two ofthese dishes of pease out of the ashes, you shall go too." So she shooktwo dishes of peas into the ashes. but the little maiden went out intothe garden at the back of the house, and called as before and all thebirds came flying, and in half an hour's time all was done, and out theyflew again. And then Cinderella took the dishes to her mother, rejoicingto think that she should now go to the ball. But her mother said, "It isall of no use, you cannot go. you have no clothes, and cannot dance. andyou would only put us to shame." and off she went with her two daughtersto the feast.Now when all were gone, and nobody left at home, Cinderella wentsorrowfully and sat down under the hazel tree, and cried out "Shake, shake, hazel tree, gold and silver over me!"Then her friend the bird flew out of the tree and brought a gold andsilver dress for her, and slippers of spangled silk. and she put themon, and followed her sisters to the feast. But they did not know her,she looked so fine and beautiful in her rich clothes.The king's son soon came up to her, and took her by the hand and dancedwith her and no one else. and he never left her hand, but when any oneelse came to ask her to dance, he said, "This lady is dancing with me."Thus they danced till a late hour of the night, and then she wanted togo home. and the king's son said, "I shall go and take care of you toyour home," for he wanted to see where the beautiful maid lived. But sheslipped away from him unawares, and ran off towards home, and the princefollowed her. then she jumped up into the pigeon house and shut thedoor. So he waited till her father came home, and told him that theunknown maiden who had been at the feast had hidden herself in thepigeon house. But when they had broken open the door they found no onewithin. and as they came back into the house, Cinderella lay, as shealways did, in her dirty frock by the ashes. for she had run as quicklyas she could through the pigeon house and on to the hazel tree, and hadthere taken off her beautiful clothes, and laid them beneath the tree,that the bird might carry them away. and had seated herself amid theashes again in her little old frock.The next day, when the feast was again held, and her father, mother andsisters were gone, Cinderella went to the hazel tree, and all happenedas the evening before.The king's son, who was waiting for her, took her by the hand and dancedwith her. and, when any one asked her to dance, he said as before, "Thislady is dancing with me." When night came she wanted to go home. and theking's son went with her, but she sprang away from him all at once intothe garden behind her father's house. In this garden stood a fine largepear tree. and Cinderella jumped up into it without being seen. Then theking's son waited till her father came home, and said to him, "Theunknown lady has slipped away, and I think she must have sprung into thepear tree." The father ordered an axe to be brought, and they cut downthe tree, but found no one upon it. And when they came back into thekitchen, there lay Cinderella in the ashes as usual. for she had slippeddown on the other side of the tree, and carried her beautiful clothesback to the bird at the hazel tree, and then put on her little oldfrock.The third day, when her father and mother and sisters were gone, shewent again into the garden, and said "Shake, shake, hazel tree, gold and silver over me!"Then her kind friend the bird brought a dress still finer than theformer one, and slippers which were all of gold. and the king's sondanced with her alone, and when any one else asked her to dance, hesaid, "This lady is my partner." Now when night came she wanted to gohome. and the king's son would go with her, but she managed to slip awayfrom him, though in such a hurry that she dropped her left goldenslipper upon the stairs.So the prince took the shoe, and went the next day to the king, hisfather, and said, "I will take for my wife the lady that this goldenshoe fits."Then both the sisters were overjoyed to hear this. for they hadbeautiful feet, and had no doubt that they could wear the goldenslipper. The eldest went first into the room where the slipper was, andwanted to try it on, and the mother stood by. But her big toe could notgo into it, and the shoe was altogether much too small for her. Then themother said, "Never mind, cut it off. When you are queen you will notcare about toes. you will not want to go on foot." So the silly girl cuther big toe off, and squeezed the shoe on, and went to the king's son.Then he took her for his bride, and rode away with her.But on their way home they had to pass by the hazel tree that Cinderellahad planted, and there sat a little dove on the branch, singing "Back again! back again! look to the shoe!The shoe is too small, and not made for you!Prince! prince! look again for thy bride,For she's not the true one that sits by thy side."Then the prince looked at her foot, and saw by the blood that streamedfrom it what a trick she had played him. So he brought the false brideback to her home, and said, "This is not the right bride. let the othersister try and put on the slipper." Then she went into the room and gother foot into the shoe, all but the heel, which was too large. But hermother squeezed it in till the blood came, and took her to the king'sson. and he rode away with her. But when they came to the hazel tree,the little dove sat there still, and sang as before. Then the king's sonlooked down, and saw that the blood streamed from the shoe. So hebrought her back again also. "This is not the true bride," said he tothe father. "have you no other daughters?"Then Cinderella came and she took her clumsy shoe off, and put on thegolden slipper, and it fitted as if it had been made for her. And whenhe drew near and looked at her face the prince knew her, and said, "Thisis the right bride."Then he took Cinderella on his horse and rode away. And when they cameto the hazel tree the white dove sang "Prince! prince! take home thy bride,For she is the true one that sits by thy side!"