THE TWENTY FOURTH.THE STORY OF THE THREE APPLES,  c.One night, after the adventure above described, the Khaleefeh HaroonEr Rasheed said to Jaafar, his Wezeer, We will go down to night into thecity, and inquire respecting the affairs of those who are at present inauthority, and him against whom any one shall complain we will displace.Jaafar replied, I hear and obey: and when the Khaleefeh had gone forthwith him and Mesroor, and they had passed through several of themarket streets, they proceeded along a lane, and saw there an old man,with a net and basket upon his head, and a staff in his hand, walking athis leisure, and reciting these verses: They say to me, Thou shinest among mankind, by thy knowledge,like the moonlight night:But I answer, Abstain from thus addressing me, since there is noknowledge without power:For if they would pawn me, and my knowledge with me, and all my papersand inkhorn too,For one day's food, they would never find the pledge accepted tothe day of judgment.As for the poor, and his condition, and his whole life, how full oftrouble!In the summer he fails to earn his food, and in winter he warmshimself over the fire pot.The dogs follow him wherever he goes, and any reviler, and he cannotrepel him.If he states his case, and proves himself wronged, the judge will notadmit his plea.Such, then, being the poor man's life, his fittest place is inthe burial ground.The Khaleefeh, when he heard his recitation, said to Jaafar, Observethis poor man, and consider these verses. for they indicate hisnecessity. Then approaching the man, he said to him, O sheykh, what isthine occupation? O my master, answered the old man, I am a fisherman,and have a family to maintain, and I went forth from my house at noon,and have remained until now, but God hath allotted me nothing wherewithto obtain food for my household. therefore I have hated myself, andwished for death. Wilt thou, said the Khaleefeh, return with us to theriver, and station thyself on the bank of the Tigris, and cast thy netfor my luck? If thou wilt do so I will purchase of thee whatever comethup for a hundred pieces of gold. The fisherman rejoiced when he heardthese words, and said, On my head be your commands: I will return withyou. So he went again to the river, and cast his net, and, havingwaited till it sank, drew the cords, and dragged back the net, and therecame up in it a chest, locked and heavy. When the Khaleefeh saw it, hefelt its weight, and found it to be heavy. and he gave a hundred piecesof gold to the fisherman, who went away, while Mesroor, assisted byJaafar, took up the chest, and conveyed it, in company with theKhaleefeh, to the palace, where they lighted the candles, and placed thechest before the Khaleefeh. Jaafar and Mesroor then broke it open, andthey found in it a basket of palm leaves sewed up with red worsted. andthey cut the threads, and saw within it a piece of carpet, and, liftingup this, they found beneath it an izar, and when they hadtaken up the izar they discovered under it a damsel like molten silver,killed, and cut in pieces.When the Khaleefeh beheld this, tears ran down his cheeks, and, lookingtowards Jaafar, he exclaimed, O dog of Wezeers, shall people be murderedin my time, and be thrown into the river, and become burdens upon myresponsibility? By Allah, I must retaliate for this damsel upon him whokilled her, and put him to death! Then said he to Jaafar, By the truthof my descent from the Khaleefehs of the sons of El 'Abbas, if thou donot bring to me him who killed this woman, that I may avenge her uponhim, I will crucify thee at the gate of my palace, together with fortyof thy kinsmen! And the Khaleefeh was enraged. Grant me,said Jaafar, a delay of three days. I grant thee the delay, replied theKhaleefeh. Jaafar then went forth from his presence, and took his routethrough the city, sorrowful, and saying within himself, How shall Idiscover him who killed this damsel, that I may take him before theKhaleefeh? And if I take to him any other person, he will become aweight upon my conscience. I know not what to do. For three days heremained in his house, and on the fourth day the Khaleefeh sent tosummon him, and, when he had presented himself before him, said to him,Where is the murderer of the damsel? O Prince of the Faithful, answeredJaafar, am I acquainted with things hidden from the senses, that Ishould know who is her murderer? The Khaleefeh, incensed at this answer,gave orders to crucify him at the gate of his palace, and commanded acrier to proclaim through the streets of Baghdad, Whosoever desireth toamuse himself by seeing the crucifixion of Jaafar El Barmekee, theWezeer of the Khaleefeh, and the crucifixion of his kinsmen, at the gateof the Khaleefeh's palace, let him come forth and amuse himself. So thepeople came forth from every quarter to see the crucifixion of Jaafarand his kinsmen. and they knew not the cause of this. The Khaleefeh thengave orders to set up the crosses. and they did so, and placed theWezeer and his kinsmen beneath, to crucify them, and were awaiting theKhaleefeh's permission, while the people wept for Jaafar and hisrelatives.But while they were thus waiting, a handsome and neatly dressed youngman came forward quickly through the crowd, and, approaching the Wezeer,said to him, Safety to thee from this predicament, O chief of Emeers,and refuge of the poor! It was I who killed the woman whom ye found inthe chest: kill me therefore for her, and retaliate her death uponme. When Jaafar heard these words, he rejoiced for his own deliverance,and grieved for the young man: but while he was speaking to him, lo, anold sheykh pressed hastily through the crowd to him and the young man,and, having saluted them, said, O Wezeer, believe not the words of thisyoung man, for no one killed the damsel but myself. therefore retaliateher death upon me. The young man, however, said, O Wezeer, this is anold man, imbecile through age. he knoweth not what he saith: it was Iwho killed her. avenge her therefore upon me. O my son, said thesheykh, thou art young, and wilt find pleasure in the world. and I amold, and satiated with the world: I will be a ransom for thee and forthe Wezeer and his kinsmen. and no one killed the damsel but myself: byAllah, therefore, hasten to retaliate upon me.On witnessing this scene, the Wezeer was astonished. and he took theyoung man and the sheykh to the Khaleefeh, and said, O Prince of theFaithful, the murderer of the damsel hath come. Where is he? said theKhaleefeh. This young man, answered Jaafar, saith, I am themurderer. and this sheykh accuseth him of falsehood, and saith, Nay,but _I_ am the murderer. The Khaleefeh, looking towards the sheykh andthe young man, said, Which of you killed this damsel? The young mananswered, No one killed her but myself: and the sheykh said also, Noone killed her but myself. The Khaleefeh therefore said to Jaafar, Takethem both and crucify them. If the murderer be one, replied Jaafar, tokill the other would be unjust. The young man then said, By Him whoraised the heavens and spread out the earth, it was I who killed thedamsel: and he gave an account of the manner of his killing her, anddescribed what the Khaleefeh had found. The Khaleefeh therefore wasconvinced that the young man was he who had killed the damsel. and hewas astonished, and said, What was the cause of thy killing this damselunjustly, and of thy confessing the murder without beingbeaten, and thy saying, Retaliate her death upon me? Theyoung man answered as follows: Know, O Prince of the Faithful, that this damsel was my wife, and thedaughter of my uncle: this sheykh was her father, and is my uncle. Imarried her when she was a virgin, and God blessed me with three malechildren by her. and she loved me and served me, and I saw in her noevil. At the commencement of this month she was attacked by a severeillness, and I brought to her the physicians, who attended her until herhealth returned to her. and I desired them to send her to the bath. butshe said to me, I want something before I enter the bath, for I have alonging for it. What is it? said I. She answered, I have a longing foran apple, to smell it, and take a bite from it. So I went outimmediately into the city, and searched for the apple, and would havebought it had its price been a piece of gold: but I could not find one.I passed the next night full of thought, and when the morning came Iquitted my house again and went about to all the gardens, one afteranother. yet I found none in them. There met me, however, an oldgardener, of whom I inquired for the apple, and he said to me, O my son,this is a rare thing, and not to be found here, nor anywhere except inthe garden of the Prince of the Faithful at El Barah, and preservedthere for the Khaleefeh. I returned therefore to my wife, and my lovefor her so constrained me that I prepared myself and journeyed fifteendays, by night and day, in going and returning, and brought her threeapples which I purchased of the gardener at El Barah for three piecesof gold. and, going in, I handed them to her. but she was not pleased bythem, and left them by her side. She was then suffering from a violentfever, and she continued ill during a period of ten days.After this she recovered her health, and I went out and repaired to myshop, and sat there to sell and buy. and while I was thus occupied, atmid day there passed by me a black slave, having in his hand an apple,with which he was playing: so I said to him, Whence didst thou get thisapple, for I would procure one like it? Upon which he laughed, andanswered, I got it from my sweetheart: I had been absent, and came, andfound her ill, and she had three apples. and she said to me, Myunsuspecting husband journeyed to El Barah for them, and bought themfor three pieces of gold: and I took this apple from her. When I heardthe words of the slave, O Prince of the Faithful, the world became blackbefore my face, and I shut up my shop, and returned to my house,deprived of my reason by excessive rage. I found not the third apple,and said to her, Where is the apple? She answered, I know not whither itis gone. I was convinced thus that the slave had spoken the truth, and Iarose, and took a knife, and throwing myself upon her bosom, plunged theknife into her: I then cut off her head and limbs, and put them in thebasket in haste, and covered them with the izar, over which I laid apiece of carpet: then I put the basket in the chest, and, having lockedthis, conveyed it on my mule, and threw it with my own hands into theTigris.And now, continued the young man, I conjure thee by Allah, O Prince ofthe Faithful, to hasten my death in retaliation for her murder, as Idread, otherwise, her appeal for vengeance upon me on the day ofresurrection: for when I had thrown her into the Tigriswithout the knowledge of any one, I returned to my house, and found myeldest boy crying, though he knew not what I had done to his mother: soI said to him, What maketh thee cry? and he answered, I took one ofthe apples that my mother had, and went down with it into the street toplay with my brothers, and a tall black slave snatched it from me, andsaid to me, Whence came this to thee? I answered him, My father made ajourney for it, and brought it from El Barah, for the sake of mymother. for she is sick: he bought three apples for three pieces ofgold: but he took it from me and beat me, and went away with it. and Iam afraid that my mother may beat me on account of the apple. When Iheard my son's story, I discovered that the slave had forged a lieagainst the daughter of my uncle, and found that she had been killedunjustly. and as I was weeping bitterly for what I had done, thissheykh, my uncle and her father, came to me, and I informed him of theevent. and he seated himself by me, and wept. We wept until midnight,and continued our mourning for her five days, ceasing not to the presentday to bewail her death. By the honour of thine ancestors, therefore,hasten my death, to retaliate her murder upon me.The Khaleefeh wondered at the young man's story, and said, By Allah, Iwill not put to death any but the wicked slave. for the young man isexcusable. Then looking towards Jaafar, he said to him, Bring before methis wicked slave who hath been the cause of the catastrophe. or, ifthou bring him not, thou shalt be put to death in his stead. So theWezeer departed weeping, and saying, Whence shall I bring him? Not everytime that the jar is struck doth it escape being broken! I have nostratagem to employ in this affair: but He who delivered me in the firstcase may deliver me in the second. By Allah, I will not go out from myhouse for three days. and the Truth, whose perfection be extolled, willdo what He willeth! So he remained in his house three days, and on thefourth day he caused the aee to be brought, and made his testamentaryarrangements. and as he was bidding farewell to his children, andweeping, lo, the messenger of the Khaleefeh came and said to him, ThePrince of the Faithful is in a most violent rage, and hath sent me tothee. and he hath sworn that this day shall not pass until thou art putto death if thou do not bring to him the slave.On hearing this, Jaafar wept, and his children wept with him. and whenhe had bidden them all farewell except his youngest daughter, heapproached her for the same purpose. He loved her more than all hisother children. and he pressed her to his bosom, and wept at the thoughtof his separation from her. but, in doing this, he felt something roundin her pocket, and said to her, What is in thy pocket? She answered, Omy father, it is an apple. our slave Reyan brought it, and Ihave had it four days. he would not give it me until he had receivedfrom me two pieces of gold. At this mention of the slave and theapple, Jaafar rejoiced, and exclaimed, O ready Dispeller oftrouble! and immediately he ordered that the slave should bebrought before him. He was therefore brought in, and he said to him,Whence came this apple? O my master, he answered, I went out five daysago, and, entering one of the by streets of the city, I saw somechildren playing, and one of them had this apple: and I snatched it fromhim, and beat him. and he cried, and said, That belongs to my mother,and she is sick: she wanted my father to bring her an apple, and he madea journey to El Barah, and brought back for her three apples which hebought for three pieces of gold. and I took this to play with it: thenhe cried again. but, paying no regard to him, I took it away and broughtit hither. and my little mistress bought it of me for two pieces ofgold. When he heard this story, Jaafar was filled with wonder atdiscovering that this distressing event, and the murder of the damsel,had been occasioned by his slave. and he took the slave and went withhim to the Khaleefeh, who ordered that the story should be committed towriting, and published.Jaafar then said to him, Wonder not, O Prince of the Faithful, at histale, for it is not more extraordinary than the story of the WezeerNoor ed Deen, and Shems ed Deen, his brother. What story, said theKhaleefeh, can be more wonderful than this? O Prince of the Faithful,replied Jaafar, I will not relate it to thee unless on the conditionthat thou exempt my slave from the punishment of death. The Khaleefehsaid, I give thee his blood: and Jaafar, thereupon, commenced therelation of the story as follows: THE STORY OF NOOR ED DEEN AND HIS SON, AND OF SHEMS ED DEEN AND HISDAUGHTER.Know, O Prince of the Faithful, that there was, in Cairo, aSulan, just and beneficent, who had a wise and well informedWezeer, possessing a knowledge of the affairs of the world, and of theart of government. This minister was an aged man, and he had two sons,like two moons: the name of the elder was Shems ed Deen, and that of theyounger, Noor ed Deen. and the latter was more distinguished thanthe former by handsomeness and comeliness: there was no one in his daymore handsome, so that the fame of his charms spread through theneighbouring regions, and some of the inhabitants of those partstravelled to his country merely to obtain a sight of him. And it came topass that their father died, and the Sulan mourned for him, and,turning his regards towards the two sons, took them into his favour,invested them with robes of honour, and said to them, Ye two areinstated in your father's office: at which they rejoiced, and kissedthe ground before him. They observed the ceremonies of mourningfor their father during a period of a whole month, and entered upon theoffice of Wezeers, each of them discharging the duties of this stationfor a week at a time. and whenever the Sulan had a desire to go forthon a journey, he took one of them with him.Now it happened, one night, that the Sulan purposed commencing ajourney on the following morning. and it was the turn of the elderWezeer to accompany him. and as the two brothers were conversingtogether that night, the elder said, O my brother, it is my wish that weshould both marry on one night. Do, O my brother, as thou desirest,answered the younger. and I will comply with that which thou shalt say.So they agreed to do this. The elder then said to his brother, If God sodecree that we obtain the betrothal of two maidens, and accomplish ourmarriage on the same night, and they give birth to children on the sameday, and God will that thy wife have a son, and my wife have a daughter,we will marry them to each other, for they will be cousins. And what, Omy brother, said Noor ed Deen, wilt thou require of my son as the dowryof thy daughter? He answered, I will require of thy son, as the dowry ofmy daughter, three thousand pieces of gold, and three gardens, and threefarms. for if the young man make any other contract than this, it willnot be proper. But when Noor ed Deen heard this proposal, he exclaimed,What is this dowry that thou imposest upon my son? Dost thou not knowthat we are two brothers, and that we are both Wezeers, of one dignity?It were incumbent on thee to offer thy daughter to my son as a freegift, without any dowry. for thou knowest that the male is morehonourable than the female, and my child is a male, and by him shall ourmemory be preserved: not by thy daughter. What sayest thou of her?asked his brother. That our memory will not be preserved by her amongthe nobles, answered Noor ed Deen. But thou desirest, added he, to actwith me according to the opinion of him who saith, If thou desire todrive away a person who would buy, demand of him a high price. I seethee, replied Shems ed Deen, to have committed a fault, in making thyson more honourable than my daughter: thou art doubtless deficient injudgment, and destitute of good disposition, seeing that thou mentionestthe partnership in the office of Wezeer, when I admitted thee not toshare it with me excepting in my pity for thee, and that thou mightestassist me: but talk as thou wilt: since thou hast said this, by Allah, Iwill not marry my daughter to thy son, though thou offer me her weightin gold. On hearing these words of his brother, Noor ed Deen wasenraged, and said, I will not marry my son to thy daughter. I will notaccept him as a husband for her, replied Shems ed Deen. and if I werenot purposing a journey, I would do to thee deeds that should serve aswarnings to others: however, when I return, God will do what Hewilleth. When Noor ed Deen heard this, he was full of anger, and becameunconscious of existence: but he concealed his feelings. and each of thetwo brothers passed the night apart from the other. and in the morningthe Sulan set out on his journey, and, crossing over to theisland, proceeded towards the Pyramids, accompanied by theWezeer Shems ed Deen.Noor ed Deen passed that night in a state of the utmost rage. and whenthe morning came he arose, and, having performed the morning prayers,went to his closet and took out from it a pair of small saddle bags,which he filled with gold. and as he reflected upon the words of hisbrother, and the contempt which he had shewn him, and the pride that hehad manifested towards him, he repeated these verses: Travel. Thou wilt find a friend in the place of him thou leavest.and fatigue thyself. for by labour are the sweets of lifeobtained.To a man of intelligence and education there is no glory in a constantresidence: therefore quit thy native place, and go abroad.I have observed that the stagnation of water corrupteth it.if it floweth, it becometh sweet. but otherwise, it doth not.If the full moon never set, the eye of the contemplative would noton every occasion pay regard to it:The lions, if they left not the forest, would capture no prey.and the arrow, if it quitted not the bow, would not strike the mark:The grains of gold upon their native bed are regarded as mere dust.and the aloes wood, where it groweth, is a kind of firewood:If exported, it becometh an object of high demand. but if not,it attaineth no kind of distinction.He then ordered one of his young men to saddle for him a dapple mule,tall, and of quick pace. and he did so, placing upon her a saddleadorned with gold, with stirrups of Indian steel, and housings of thevelvet of Ipahan. and she resembled a bride displayed before herhusband. He ordered him also to place upon her a carpet of silk, and aprayer carpet, and to put the saddle bags beneath thelatter. and when this was done, he said to the young man and the slaves,I have a desire to take a ride for my amusement outside the city,towards the province of alyoob, and shall be absent three nights. andlet none of you follow me, for my heart is contracted.Having thus said, he mounted his mule in haste, and, taking with him asmall supply of food, departed from the city, turning his face towardsthe open country. The hour of noon overtook him not until he enteredthe city of Bilbeys, where he alighted to repose himself and rest hismule, and ate. after which he took from this place what he required forhimself, and some provender for his mule, and, having placed theseprovisions upon her, went forth again into the plain, and before noon onthe second following day, he entered Jerusalem. Here healighted again, and rested himself and his beast, and ate: he thenplaced his saddle bags under his head, and spread his carpet, and slept,still overcome by anger. He passed the night in this place. and in themorning he remounted, and he continued to urge on his mule until hearrived at Aleppo, where he alighted at a han, and remainedthree days to give rest to himself and his mule, and to enjoy the air ofthe place: which having done, he determined to prosecute his journey,and mounted his mule, and went forth. He knew not whither to direct hiscourse. but travelled on until he arrived at the city of El Barah. andscarcely was he aware that the night had overtaken him, when he alightedthere at a Khan, where he took off the saddle bags from the mule, andspread the prayer carpet, committing the mule, with her equipage, to thecare of the door keeper, and ordering him to walk her about a little.The door keeper did so. and it happened that the Wezeer of El Barah,sitting at a window of his palace, saw the mule, and, observing hercostly equipage, thought that she must belong to some Wezeer or King.and as he attentively regarded her he was surprised, and said to one ofhis pages, Bring before me that door keeper. So the page went andbrought him. and the door keeper, approaching, kissed the ground beforehim. The Wezeer, who was an aged person, then said to this man, Who isthe owner of this mule, and what is his appearance? O my lord, answeredthe door keeper, her owner is a young man of elegant person, of the sonsof the merchants, and of a dignified and grave aspect. On hearing this,the Wezeer arose, and, mounting his horse, went to the Khan,and introduced himself to the young man, who, as soon as he saw himapproaching, rose to meet him, and embraced him. The Wezeer, after hehad alighted from his horse, saluted him and welcomed him, and, seatinghim by his side, said to him, Whence, O my son, hast thou come. and forwhat purpose? O my lord, answered Noor ed Deen, I have come from thecity of Cairo: my father was Wezeer there. and he hath departed toreceive the mercy of God. and he informed him of all that had happenedto him from first to last, adding, I have determined that I will notreturn until I shall have seen all the cities and countries of theworld. O my son, replied the Wezeer, obey not the suggestions of thymind, lest thou expose thyself to destruction. for the countries arewaste, and I fear on thy account the issues of fortune. So saying, heordered that the saddle bags should be placed again on the mule,together with the carpet of silk and the prayer carpet, and tookNoor ed Deen with him to his house, where he lodged him in an elegantapartment, and treated him with honour and kindness. and, conceiving astrong affection for him, said to him, O my son, I have become an oldman, and I have no male child. God, however, hath blessed me with adaughter who resembleth thee in comeliness, and I have rejected manypersons who have been her suitors: but now, love for thee hath enteredmy heart. wilt thou then take my daughter as thy hand maid to servethee, and be her husband? If thou consent to this, I will go up to theSulan of El Barah, and will say to him, This is the son of mybrother. and I will introduce thee to him, that I may make thee Wezeerin my place, and I will remain in my house. for I am nowaged. Noor ed Deen, on hearing this proposal of the Wezeer ofEl Barah, hung down his head, and then answered, I hear and obey.The Wezeer rejoiced at his assent, and ordered his servants to preparefor him a repast, and to decorate the great saloon which wasfurnished for the reception of the chiefs of the Emeers. He then calledtogether his friends, and invited the great officers of the state, andthe merchants of El Barah. and when they had come into his presence, hesaid to them, I had a brother who was Wezeer in the land of Egypt, andGod blessed him with two sons. and me, as ye know, He hath blessed witha daughter: now my brother enjoined me to marry my daughter to one ofhis sons, and I consented to do so. and when she attained a fit age formarriage, he sent to me one of his sons, who is this young man herepresent. As soon, therefore, as he had come, I desired to perform themarriage contract between him and my daughter, and that he shouldintroduce himself to her here in my house. Excellently hast thou done!they replied. They then drank sherbet of sugar, and the pages sprinkledrose water upon them, and they departed: after which, the Wezeer orderedhis servants to conduct Noor en Deen to the bath, and gave him a suit ofhis best clothes, and sent to him the napkins and cups andperfuming vessels, and everything else that he required. So when he cameout from the bath, he put on the suit of clothes, and appeared like thefull moon. and he mounted his mule, and, returning to the palace,alighted and presented himself before the Wezeer, and kissed his hand:and the Wezeer welcomed him, saying, Arise, and introduce thyself thisnight to thy wife. and to morrow I will go up with thee to the Sulan,and I pray that God may bless thee with every kind of happiness.Noor ed Deen therefore arose, and went to his wife, the daughter of theWezeer. Thus did it happen to Noor ed Deen.As to his brother, he continued a while journeying with the Sulan, andwhen he returned, and found not his brother, he inquired of the servantsrespecting him, and they answered, On the day of thy departure with theSulan, he mounted his mule, caparisoned as for a procession of state,and said, I am going towards the province of alyoob, and shall beabsent a day or two days. for my heart is contracted. therefore let noneof you follow me: and from the day on which he went forth, to thepresent day, we have heard no tidings of him. Upon this the heart ofShems ed Deen was troubled at the separation of his brother, and hegrieved excessively for his loss, saying within himself, The cause ofthis is nothing else than my having spoken harshly to him in myconversation on the night before my departure with the Sulan. andprobably his mind was disturbed, and he went on a journey: I musttherefore send after him. He then went up and related this event to theSulan, who wrote letters and sent them to his vicegerents in all theprovinces: but Noor ed Deen had traversed distant regions during theabsence of his brother with the Sulan: therefore the messengers, whenthey had gone with the letters, returned without having obtained anyinformation respecting him. So Shems ed Deen despaired of his brother,and said, I have enraged my brother by what I said to him concerning themarriage of the children. Would that I had not done so! This was notoccasioned but by my want of sense and judgment! And soon after this,he demanded in marriage the daughter of one of the merchants of Cairo,and performed the marriage contract between himself and her, andintroduced himself to her: and it happened that the night when thisevent took place was the same night on which Noor ed Deen introducedhimself to his wife, the daughter of the Wezeer of El Barah: this beingin accordance with the will of God, whose name be exalted, that He mightexecute his decree upon his creatures.The event was as they both had said: for it came to pass that the twowives conceived by them: the wife of Shems ed Deen, the Wezeer, ofEgypt, gave birth to a daughter, than whom there was not seen, in thatcountry, one more beautiful. and the wife of Noor ed Deen gave birth toa son, one more beautiful than whom was not seen in his time: as thepoet hath said: If beauty came to be compared with him, it would hang down its headin shame.Or if it were said, O beauty, hast thou seen the like? it wouldanswer, The equal of this I have not.So they named him asan. and on the seventh day after hisbirth, they made entertainments and spread repasts such as were fit forthe sons of Kings after which the Wezeer of El Barah tookwith him Noor ed Deen, and went up with him to the Sulan. and when hecame into his presence he kissed the ground before him. andNoor ed Deen, being eloquent in tongue, and firm of heart, and comely inperson and in actions, recited these words of the poet: This is he whose justice extendeth to all men, and who hath overrunand subdued every region.Be thankful for his benefits. for they are not mere benefits.but they are strings of jewels on the necks of his people.And kiss his fingers. for they are not mere fingers.but they are the keys of the supplies of Providence.The Sulan treated them both with honour, and, having thankedNoor ed Deen for his address, said to his Wezeer, Who is this young man?The Wezeer therefore related to him his story from beginning to end, andadded, This is the son of my brother. How is it, said the Sulan, thathe is the son of thy brother, and we have not before heard of him? TheWezeer answered, O our lord the Sulan, I had a brother who was Wezeerin the land of Egypt, and he died, leaving two sons: the elder succeededto his father's office, as Wezeer, and this his younger son came to me.and I swore that I would not marry my daughter to any but him: so, whenhe came, I married him to her. He is a young man, and I am now aged. myhearing is impaired, and my judgment faileth: it is my wish, therefore,that our lord the Sulan would instate him in my office, seeing that heis the son of my brother and the husband of my daughter, and a personworthy of the dignity of Wezeer. for he is endowed with knowledge andjudgment. The Sulan, upon this, looked towards him, and, being pleasedwith him, approved of the advice of the Wezeer that he should promotehim to that office. so he bestowed it upon him, and ordered that amagnificent dress of honour should be given to him, and one of the bestof the mules upon which he was himself accustomed to ride, allotting himalso supplies and salaries. and Noor ed Deen kissed the hand of theSulan, and descended with his father in law to their house, both inhigh delight, and saying, Verily the birth of this child is fortunate.On the following day Noor ed Deen went again to the King, and kissed theground, and the Sulan ordered him to sit in the place of the Wezeer:so he sat, and occupied himself with the affairs of his office, andexamined the cases of the people, and their suits, according to thecustom of Wezeers: and the Sulan, observing him, was surprised at hisconduct, and the acuteness of his understanding, and his good judgment.He attentively considered his qualities, and loved him, and advanced himin his favour: and when the court was dissolved, Noor ed Deen returnedto his house, and related what had passed to his father in law, who wasrejoiced at hearing it.The old Wezeer ceased not to superintend the rearing of the child, whowas named asan, for many days, while Noor ed Deen was constantlyoccupied with the affairs of his office, so that he left not the Sulanby day nor by night. and the King increased his salaries and suppliesuntil his circumstances became ample: he had ships which made voyagesunder his orders with merchandise and other things, and he foundednumerous estates, and made water wheels and gardens. Thusdid he until his son asan was four years of age, when the old Wezeer,the father of his wife, died. and he conveyed his corpse with greatpomp, and decently deposited it in the earth. He then turned histhoughts towards the education of his son. and when the child had gainedstrength, he brought him a tutor to teach him in his own house, charginghim to instruct him and educate him well. and the tutor did so, andtaught him various useful sciences, after he had passed some years inlearning the ur an. asan meanwhile increased in loveliness and beauty,and elegance of person. The tutor continued to educate him in hisfather's palace. and from the time that he arrived at adolescence hewent not out of the Wezeer's palace, until his father took him one day,and, having clad him in one of the richest of his dresses, mounted himon one of his best mules, and conducted him to the Sulan, andintroduced him. When the King beheld asan Bedr ed Deen, theson of the Wezeer Noor ed Deen, he was astonished at his beauty. and thepeople, when he passed by them for the first time, going up with hisfather to the King, were amazed at his surpassing beauty and loveliness,and elegance of person. The Sulan, as soon as he saw him, loved him,and bestowed marks of favour upon him, and said to his father, O Wezeer,thou must bring him with thee every day. The Wezeer answered, I hear andobey. and returned with his son to his abode. and he continued everyday to go up with him to the Sulan until the youth attained the age offifteen years.His father, the Wezeer Noor ed Deen, then fell sick, and called him intohis presence, and said to him, O my son, know that this world is aperishable abode, and the world to come is an everlasting abode. I wishto give thee some precepts, and do thou understand what I am about tosay to thee, and incline thy heart to it. And he began to counsel himrespecting the proper mode of conducting himself in society, and the duemanagement of his affairs. and when he had done so, he reflected uponhis brother and his native place and country, and wept at the thought ofhis separation from those he loved. his tears flowing: and he said, O myson, hear my words. I have a brother in Cairo, and I quittedhim and departed against his will. He then took a piece ofpaper, and wrote upon it all that had happened to him fromfirst to last, together with the date of his marriage and introductionto the daughter of the Wezeer, and the date of his arrival at El Barahand his interview with its Wezeer. and, having added some strictadmonition, he said to his son, Keep this charge, for the paper on whichit is written containeth an account of thine origin and thy rank andlineage. and if any evil accident befall thee, repair to Cairo, andinquire for thine uncle, and salute him, and inform him that I died in astrange land, ardently desiring that I could see him. Therefore asanBedr ed Deen took the paper, and, having folded it, and wrapped it in apiece of waxed cloth, sewed it between the lining and theouter cloth of his cap, and wept for his father, that heshould be parted from him in his youth.Noor ed Deen then said to his son, I charge thee that thoube not familiar with any one. for in retirement is security. Divinelygifted was the poet who said, There is none in thy time whose friendship thou shouldst covet.nor any intimate who, when fortune is treacherous, will befaithful.Live then apart, and rely upon no man: I have given thee,in these words, good advice, and sufficient.Accustom thyself to taciturnity: occupy thyself with thine own affairs,and use not many words: for the poet saith, Taciturnity is an ornament, and in silence is security: therefore,when thou speakest, be not loquacious:For if thou repent once of thy silence, thou wilt assuredly repentmany times of thy speech.Beware of drinking wine. for it is the source of every kind of mischief.The poet saith on this subject, I have abandoned wine and those who drink it. and have becomethe friend of such as condemn it.Wine leadeth astray from the path of rectitude, and openeththe doors to evil.Hate no man, and oppress none. for oppression is base. The poet saith, Oppress not if thou hast the power to do so. for oppression willeventually bring thee repentance:Thine eye will sleep while the oppressed, wakeful, will call forvengeance upon thee. and the eye of God sleepeth not.Despise thy wealth, but not thyself: yet bestow not wealth save upon himwho deserveth it. If thou keep it, it will keep thee. but if thousquander it, it will ruin thee. and then wilt thou need the assistanceof the least of mankind. It hath been said by the poet, When my wealth faileth, no friend assisteth me. but when it aboundeth,all men are my friends.How many enemies for the sake of wealth have consorted with me!And my companion, in the time of want, hath abandoned me!In this manner he continued to admonish his son asan Bedr ed Deen untilhis spirit departed. The house became a scene of mourning, and theSulan and all the Emeers grieved for him. and they buried him. Theycontinued their mourning during a period of two months, and the son ofNoor ed Deen rode not out nor went to the court nor presented himselfbefore the Sulan. and the King instated one of the Chamberlains in hisplace, and appointed a new Wezeer in the place of his father, andordered this Wezeer to put seals upon all the houses of Noor ed Deen,and upon his wealth and all his buildings and other possessions.So the new Wezeer went with the Chamberlains to the house of the WezeerNoor ed Deen, to seal its door and to arrest his son asan Bedr ed Deen,and bring him before the Sulan, that he might do to him what hisjudgment required. But there was among the troops one of the memlooks ofthe deceased Wezeer Noor ed Deen. and he could not endure that the sonof his master should be thus treated: he therefore repaired to asanBedr ed Deen, whom he found with downcast head and mourning heart, onaccount of the death of his father, and acquainted him with what hadpassed. asan asked him, Will the execution of the order be delayed longenough for me to enter my house, and take somewhat of my worldlypossessions by which to obtain support during my exile? But the memlookanswered, Save thyself: and when asan heard these words, he coveredhis head with the skirt of his robe, and, going forth on foot, fled ofthe city: and he heard the people saying, The Sulan hath sent the newWezeer to the house of the deceased Wezeer, to seal his wealth and otherpossessions, and to arrest his son asan Bedr ed Deen, and bring himbefore him that he may put him to death: and the people were mourningfor him on account of his beauty and loveliness. So when he heard whatthey said, he took a course that he had not intended, and, not knowingwhither to go, walked on until destiny urged him to the tomb of hisfather.Entering the burial ground, he bent his way among the tombs until heseated himself at that of his father, where he removed his skirt fromover his head. And as he was sitting there, a Jew of El Barahapproached, and said to him, Wherefore, O my master, do I see thee thuschanged? He answered, I was just now sleeping, and I beheld my fatherreproaching me for having failed to visit his tomb: wherefore I rose inalarm, fearing that the day would pass without my visiting it, and sothe occurrence would distress me. The Jew then said to him, O my master,thy father despatched some vessels with merchandise, and some of themhave returned. and it is my wish to purchase of thee the cargo of everyvessel that hath arrived for a thousand pieces of gold. and so saying,he took out a purse filled with gold, and counted out from it a thousandpieces, which he paid to asan the son of the Wezeer, and said to him,Write me a paper, and seal it. So asan took a paper, and wrote upon it,The writer of this paper, asan Bedr ed Deen, the son of the WezeerNoor ed Deen, hath sold to the Jew such a one the whole cargo of everyone of his father's vessels that hath returned from her voyage, for athousand pieces of gold, and hath received the price in advance. Andafter he had taken a copy of it, the Jew went away with thepaper. and asan wept, reflecting upon his former state of dignity andfavour. At length the night closed in upon him, and sleep overtook him,and he remained asleep at his father's tomb until the moon rose when hishead rolled from the tomb, and he lay and slept on his back, his faceshining in the moonlight.Now the burial ground was inhabited by believing Jinn. and a Jinneeyeh,coming forth, saw the face of asan as he lay asleep, and when shebeheld him, was surprised at his beauty and loveliness, and exclaimed,Extolled be Allah's perfection! This youth is like none but the virginsof paradise! She then soared into the air, to perform her accustomedcircuits, and saw an 'Efreet on his flight. She saluted him, and hereturned her salutation. and she said to him, Whence comest thou? Heanswered from Cairo: and she said to him, Wilt thou go with me tobehold the beauty of the youth who is sleeping in the burial ground? Hereplied, Yes. So they went together. and when they had descended intothe burial ground, she said to him, Hast thou seen in the course of thylife a person like this? And the 'Efreet looked upon him, andexclaimed, Extolled be the perfection of Him unto whom none is to becompared! But, O my sister, he added, if thou desire, I will relate tothee what I have seen. Tell me, she replied: so he said, I have seen aperson resembling this youth in the land of Egypt. and that person isthe daughter of the Wezeer. The King had heard of her, and demanded herof her father, the Wezeer Shems ed Deen, in marriage. but he answeredhim, O our lord the Sulan, accept my excuse, and pity my grief. forthou knowest that my brother Noor ed Deen departed from us, and we knownot where he is. and that he shared with me the office of Wezeer. andthe cause of his departure was this, that I was sitting conversing withhim on the subject of marriage, and he was angry with me, and in angerwent away: and he related to the King all that had passed between them.adding, This was the cause of his indignation, and I have been under anoath that I will not marry my daughter to any but the son of my brotherfrom the day that her mother gave birth to her. and that was aboutfifteen years ago: and lately I heard that my brother had married thedaughter of the Wezeer of El Barah, and obtained a son by her. and Iwill not marry my daughter to any but him, in honour of my brother.After I had heard this, I recorded the date of my marriage, and of mywife's conception, and of the birth of this daughter: she is intendedfor the son of her uncle. and of other maidens there are plenty. Butwhen the Sulan heard these words of the Wezeer, he was violentlyenraged, and said, How is it that such a one as myself demandeth inmarriage a daughter from one like thee, and thou withholdest her fromhim, and excusest thyself by an absurd pretext? By my head, I will notmarry her but to one of less consideration than myself, in scorn of thypride! And the King had a humpbacked groom, with a hump before and ahump behind. and he ordered him to be brought, and affianced him to thedaughter of the Wezeer, commanding that he should introduce himself toher this night, and be conducted in pompous procession. I left him inthe midst of the memlooks of the Sulan, who were surrounding him withlighted candles in their hands, laughing at him and mocking him, at thedoor of the bath, while the daughter of the Wezeer was sitting weepingin the midst of the dye womenShe resembles more than any other person this youth. They haveprohibited her father from going to her. and I have never seen, O mysister, a more ugly wretch than this humpback: but as to the maiden, sheis more beautiful than this youth.To this story of the 'Efreet, the Jinneeyeh answered, Thou liest. forthis youth is the most beautiful of the people of his age. But the'Efreet replied, By Allah, O my sister, the maiden is more beautifulthan he: however, none but he is suited to her. for they resemble eachother, and probably are brother and sister, or cousins. and how will shebe thrown away upon this humpback! She therefore said to him, O mybrother, let us place ourselves beneath him and lift him up and take himto the maiden of whom thou speakest, and see which of the two is morebeautiful. The 'Efreet answered, I hear and obey: this proposal isright, and there can be no better determination than this which thouhast chosen. therefore I will carry him. So he lifted him up, and soaredinto the sky, and the Jinneeyeh flew by his side until he descended withhim in the city of Cairo, where he placed him upon a maabah,and roused him from his sleep.When, therefore, he awoke, and found that he was not at his father'stomb in the land of El Barah, he looked to the right and left, andperceived that he was in a city that was not El Barah, and would havecried out, but the 'Efreet winked to him, and, lighting for him acandle, said to him, Know that I have brought thee hither, and I desireto do thee a service for the sake of God: take, therefore, this candle,and go with it to yonder bath, and mix with the people there, andproceed with them until thou arrivest at the saloon of the bride. thengo before, and enter the saloon, and fear no one. and when thou hastentered, station thyself on the right of the humpbacked bridegroom. andwhenever the tire women and singing women and dye women come to thee,put thy hand into thy pocket: thou wilt find it full of gold, and dothou take it by the handful and throw it to them. and imagine not thatthou wilt put thy hand in and not find it filled with gold: givetherefore to every one who cometh to thee by the handful, and fearnothing. but rely upon Him who created thee. for this will not bethrough thine own strength or power, but through the strength of God,and his power.On hearing these words of the 'Efreet, asan Bedr ed Deen said, What isthis event, and what manner of kindness is this? And he went with hiscandle to the bath, where he found the humpback mounted on his horse.and he joined himself to the party, in the same garb in which he hadarrived, and with the same comely appearance. being attired with aarboosh interwovenwith gold. He proceeded with the pompous train, and every time that thesinging women stopped for the people to give them money, he put his handinto his pocket, and found it filled with gold, and took it by thehandful and threw it into the tambourine, for thesinging women and tire women, filling the tambourine with pieces ofgold: and the singing women were amazed, and the people wondered at hisbeauty and loveliness. Thus he continued to do until they arrived at thehouse of the Wezeer, when the chamberlains drove back the people, andprevented their entrance. but the singing women and tire women said, ByAllah, we will not enter unless this youth enter with us, for he hathoverwhelmed us with his favours, and the bride shall not be displayedunless he be present: and upon this they entered with him into thesaloon of the festivity, and seated him, in spite of the humpbackedbridegroom. All the ladies of the Emeers and Wezeers and Chamberlainswere ranged in two rows, each lady holding a large lighted candle, andhaving her head veil drawn across the lower part of her face: thus theystood in two rows, to the right and the left, from the foot of the couchof the bride to the upper end of the leewan that adjoined the chamberfrom which the bride was to come forth. And when the ladies beheld asanBedr ed Deen and his beauty and loveliness, his face shining like thecrescent of the moon, the hearts of all of them inclined to him, and thefemale singers said to all the women who were present, Know that thischarming youth hath given us nothing but red gold. therefore fail not toserve him properly, and obey him in whatever he shall say. The womencrowded round him to gaze at his charms, and their minds wereoverpowered by astonishment at his beauty, and each of them wished thatshe might be in his bosom for a year or a month or an hour: they removedthe veils from their faces, and their hearts were perplexed, and theysaid, Joy to the person to whom this youth belongeth, or to the personover whom he is lord! Then they imprecated evil upon the humpbackedgroom and him who was the cause of his marriage to that lovely maiden.and every time that they prayed for blessings upon asan Bedr ed Deen,they imprecated misfortunes upon the humpback.The singing women then beat the tambourines, and the tire womenapproached with the daughter of the Wezeer in the midst of them. Theyhad perfumed her with sweet scents and essences, and clad her, andadorned her hair and neck with various ornaments, decking her withgarments such as were worn by the ancient monarchs of Persia. Amongthese was a loose gown embroidered with red gold, presenting the formsof wild beasts and birds, hanging down over her other clothes. and roundher neck was a necklace worth thousands, composed of jewels such asneither a King of El Yemen nor a Cesar ever collected: she was like themoon shining in its fourteenth night, and when she approached sheresembled a ooreeyeh. Extolled be the perfection of him whocreated her so splendid a being! The women encompassed her, and appearedlike stars. she, in the midst of them, being as the moon when the cloudshave withdrawn from before it. Meanwhile, asan Bedr ed Deen remainedsitting, with the company gazing at him. and as the bride approachedwith a dignified and graceful gait, the humpbacked groom rose to her, tokiss her. but she turned aside from him, and went and stood beforeasan, the son of her uncle. The company laughed at this. and when theybeheld her turn towards asan Bedr ed Deen, and saw him put his handinto his pocket and take out handfuls of gold and throw it into thetambourine of the singing women, they were delighted, and said, We wishthat this bride were thine: and he smiled. All this time the humpbackedgroom was alone, looking like an ape. and every time that they lightedhis candle it went out again, and he was confounded, and remainedsitting in the dark, full of secret indignation, with all the companysurrounding him, while the lighted candles presented an appearance ofbeauty that was most admirable, so that every person of reflection wasamazed at their splendour. But as to the bride, she raised her handstowards heaven, and said, O Allah, make this to be my husband, andrelieve me from this humpbacked groom! The tire women then proceeded todisplay the bride in different dresses, to the seventh suit, beforeasan Bedr ed Deen of El Barah, the humpbacked groom remaining alone.and when they had finished this ceremony they gave permission to thecompany to depart: so all who were present at the festivity, both womenand children, went out, except asan Bedr ed Deen and the humpbackedgroom. after which the tire women conducted the bride to an innerchamber, to take off her ornaments and outer robes, and to prepare herfor the bridegroom's visit.Upon this, the humpbacked groom approached asan Bedr ed Deen, and saidto him, O my master, thou hast made us happy by thy company this night,and overwhelmed us with thy favours. but now wherefore dost thou notrise and go to thy house without thy being ejected? He answered, In thename of Allah. and rose, and went out from the door: but the 'Efreetmet him, and said unto him, Stay, O Bedr ed Deen. and when the humpbackretires into the private closet, enter thou and seat thyself in thebride chamber. and when the bride cometh, say to her, I am thy husband.and the King had not recourse to this stratagem from any other motivethan his fearing for thee the effect of the eye. and thiswhom thou hast seen is one of our grooms: then approach her, anduncover her face, and fear no evil from any one.While Bedr ed Deen was thus conversing with the 'Efreet, lo, the groomentered the closet, and seated himself. and immediately the 'Efreet rosebefore him, from the trough of water that was in the closet,in the form of a mouse, and cried Zeek! What brought thee here? saidthe humpback. The mouse then increased in size, and became like a cat.and then increased, and became a dog, and cried, 'Owh! 'Owh! At thesight of this the groom was terrified, and exclaimed, Get away, thouunlucky! The dog, however, still increased and swelled untilit became an ass, and brayed in his face, crying, Ha! Ha! upon whichthe groom, in terror, cried out, Come to my aid, O people of the house!But lo, the ass increased, and became like a buffalo, and, stopping upthe place before him, spoke with the speech of a son of Adam, and said,Wo be to thee, O humpback! O filthiest of grooms! Upon this the groomwas seized with a colick, and seated himself upon the slabs, and histeeth knocked together. The 'Efreet then said to him, Hath the earthbecome narrow to thee, that thou wouldst marry none but my mistress? Butthe groom was silent. Return me an answer, said the 'Efreet, or I willmake thine abode to be in the dust! By Allah, then answered the groom,I am not in fault. for they compelled me, and I knew not that she had alover among the buffaloes. but now I repent before Allah and beforethee. Then the 'Efreet said, I swear by Allah that if thou depart nowfrom this place, or utter a word before the sun hath risen, I will slaythee: and when the sun hath risen go thy way, and never return to thishouse. And he seized the humpbacked groom, and, placing his head upsidedown upon the slabs, and his feet upwards, said to him, Remain here, andI will watch thee until sunrise. Thus did it happen to the humpback.