ENDING WITH PART OF THE HUNDRED AND THIRTY SEVENTH.THE STORY OF TAJ EL MULOOK AND THE LADY DUNYA.There was, in former times, a city behind the mountains of Ipahan,called El Medeeneh el Khara, and in it resided a Kingcalled the King Suleyman. He was a person of liberality and beneficence,and justice and integrity, and of a generous and obliging disposition:travellers repaired to him from every quarter, and his fame spreadthroughout all the regions and countries. and he reigned a long time inglory and security. but he was destitute of children and of wives.He had a Wezeer who nearly resembled him in his qualities, in liberalityand other endowments. and it came to pass that he sent to this Wezeerone day, and having summoned him into his presence, said to him, OWezeer, my heart is contracted, and my patience is overcome, and mystrength is impaired, because I have neither a wife nor a child: this isnot the usual way of Kings who rule over lords and poor men. for theyrejoice in leaving children, and multiplying by them the number of theirposterity. and the Prophet (God bless and save him!) hath said,Intermarry, and beget offspring, that ye may increase in number. for Ishall contend for your superiority with the other nations on the day ofresurrection. What, then, is thy counsel, O Wezeer? Point out to mewhat is advisable. But when the Wezeer heard these words, tears pouredfrom his eyes, and he replied, Far be it from me, O King of the age,that I should speak of that which belongeth unto the Compassionate todecide! Dost thou desire that I should enter the fire ofHell, through the anger of the Almighty King? Know, O Wezeer, rejoinedhis sovereign, that, if the King purchase a female slave whose rank andlineage are unknown, he will not be acquainted with her ignoble originthat he may abstain from her, or the nobility of her extraction that hemay make her his companion: so, if he do this, she may perhaps bear hima son who may be a hypocrite, a tyrant, a shedder of blood. and she mayresemble a marshy land, the produce of which is worthless, and attainethno excellence: her child may be obnoxious to the indignation of hisLord, not doing what He commandeth him, nor refraining from that whichHe forbiddeth him to do. I will never, therefore, be the means of suchan event by purchasing a female slave. I desire, rather, that thoudemand in marriage for me one of the daughters of the Kings, whoselineage is known, and whose loveliness is celebrated. If, then, thouwilt point out to me one of good birth and of religion among thedaughters of the Muslim Kings, I will demand her as my wife, and marryher in the presence of witnesses, that I may thereby obtain the approvalof the Lord of mankind. The Wezeer replied, Verily God hathaccomplished thy want and given thee thy desire. How so? asked theKing. Know, O King, answered the Wezeer, that it hath been told me thatthe King Zahr Shah, the sovereign of El Ar el Beya, hatha daughter of astonishing loveliness, whom words cannot describe, whoseequal existeth not in this age, for she is endowed with the most perfectbeauty and symmetry, with black eye, and long hair, and slender waist,and large hips. when she approacheth she seduceth, and when she turnethher back she killeth, ravishing the heart and the eye. It is my opinion,therefore, O King, that thou shouldst send to her father an intelligentmessenger, well informed, and experienced in the course of events, thathe may courteously ask her in marriage for thee of her father. for shehath no equal in the distant parts of the earth, nor in the near. soshalt thou enjoy her lovely face, and the Glorious King shall approvethy conduct. since it hath been handed down from the Prophet (God blessand save him!) that he said, There is no monkery in El Islam.Upon this, the King was perfectly delighted, his bosom expanded withjoy, and anxiety and grief departed from him. and, addressing hisWezeer, he said to him, Know, O Wezeer, that no one shall go on thisbusiness but thou, on account of thy consummate wisdom and politeness:depart, therefore, to thy house, and accomplish what thou hast to do,and prepare thyself by the morrow, and demand for me in marriage thisdamsel with whom thou hast caused my heart to be engrossed, and returnnot to me without her. The Wezeer replied, I hear and obey: and he wentto his house, and gave orders to bring presents suitable to Kings,consisting of costly jewels and precious rarities, such as were light tocarry and of great value, together with Arab horses, and Davidean coatsof mail, and chests of wealth such as language would failto describe. These they placed upon the mules and camels, and the Wezeerdeparted, accompanied by a hundred memlooks and a hundred male blackslaves and a hundred female slaves, and the flags and banners wereunfurled over his head. The King charged him to return soon. and afterhis departure, the King Suleyman Shah burned with desire, and becameengrossed with love of the damsel night and day. Meanwhile, the Wezeer,by night and by day traversed the deserts and wastes until thereremained between him and the city to which he was repairing one day'sjourney, when he alighted at the bank of a river, and, having summonedone of his chief officers, ordered him to go quickly to the King ZahrShah, and to acquaint him with his approach. He answered, I hear andobey: and went quickly to the city. and when he arrived there, ithappened that the King Zahr Shah was sitting in one of the places ofrecreation before the gate of the city, and, seeing him as he entered,knew him to be a stranger, and summoned him before him. So when themessenger came to him, he informed him of the approach of the Wezeer ofthe supreme King Suleyman Shah, the King of El Ar el Khara and of themountains of Ipahan. and the King Zahr Shah rejoiced, and welcomed themessenger, and, having conducted him to his palace, said to him, Wheredidst thou part from the Wezeer? He answered, I parted from him in themorning at the bank of such a river, and to morrow he will arrive andvisit thee: may God continue his favours unto thee, and show mercy untothy parents! Zahr Shah then ordered one of his wezeers totake with him the greater number of his chief officers and chamberlainsand lieutenants and the lords of his court, and to go forth with them tomeet him, in honour of the King Suleyman Shah. for his dominion extendedthrough the land.In the mean time, the Wezeer of Suleyman Shah remained where he hadhalted until midnight, and then proceeded towards the city. and when themorning gleamed, and the sun shone upon the hills and the lowlands,suddenly the Wezeer of the King Zahr Shah, and his chamberlains and thelords of his court and the chief officers of his kingdom, approached andjoined him at the distance of some leagues from the city. So the Wezeerof Suleyman Shah felt sure of the accomplishment of his business, andsaluted those who met him. and the latter preceded him until theyarrived at the palace of the King, and passed in before him through theentrance to the seventh vestibule. This was the place which no oneentered on horseback. for it was near to the King. therefore here theWezeer alighted, and he proceeded on foot until he came to a loftysaloon, at the upper end of which was a couch of alabaster set withpearls and jewels, having four legs of elephants' tusks, and upon it wasa mattress covered with green satin embroidered with red gold, and overit was a canopy adorned with pearls and jewels. Upon this couch sat theKing Zahr Shah, and the lords of his court stood in attendance upon him.And when the Wezeer went in unto him, and stood before him, he composedhis heart, and gave liberty to his tongue, and, displaying the oratoryof wezeers, and uttering the language of the eloquent, addressed theKing with courtesy of manner, and recited a series of complimentaryverses. and when he had finished, the King caused him to draw near,treated him with the utmost respect, and, seating him by his side,smiled in his face, and honoured him with a gracious reply. After this,the attendants brought forward the table in that saloon, and they ateuntil they were satisfied, when the attendants removed the table, andevery one who was present went forth, except the chief officers. Whenthe Wezeer, therefore, saw that they had quitted the hall, he rose andstood on his feet, and, complimenting the King, kissed the groundbefore him, and said, O great King, and dignified sovereign, I have comeunto thee and visited thee on an affair productive of peace andprosperity and happiness unto thee. and it is this: I have come to theeas an ambassador to desire in marriage thy daughter, the distinguishedby rank and lineage, from the King Suleyman Shah, who is endowed withjustice and integrity, and graciousness and beneficence, the King ofEl Ar el Khara and of the mountains of Ipahan, and he hath sent untothee many presents and numerous rarities, desiring thine alliance. Dostthou then wish the same of him? He then stood silent, waiting for theanswer. and when the King Zahr Shah heard these words, he rose upon hisfeet, and modestly kissed the ground. and the persons who were presentwondered at the King's condescension to the ambassador, and their mindswere amazed. The King then offered up praises unto Him who is possessedof glory and honour, and said, still standing, O exalted Wezeer, andillustrious lord, hear what I say: we are, unto the King Suleyman Shah,among the number of his subjects, and shall be ennobled by his affinity:we covet this distinction. and my daughter is one of his handmaids. Thisis my greatest desire. that he may be a means of support to me, and myreliance. And he summoned the aees and witnesses, and they borewitness that the King Suleyman Shah had appointed his Wezeer as hisdeputy to effect the marriage, and the King Zahr Shah joyfullyofficiated for his daughter in performing the contract. so the aeesconcluded the marriage contract, and offered up a prayer for thehappiness and prosperity of both parties: after which, the Wezeer arose,and produced the presents and precious rarities, and all the gifts thathe had brought, and offered the whole to the King Zahr Shah.The King then occupied himself in fitting out his daughter, and inhonourably entertaining the Wezeer. and he feasted at his banquets thegreat and the abject, and continued the festivity for a period of twomonths, omitting in it nothing that would rejoice the heart and theeye. And when everything that the bride required wascompleted, the King gave orders to carry forth the tents, and they werepitched outside the city. They packed the stuffs in the chests, and madeready the Greek and Turkish female slaves. and the King provided thebride with precious treasures and costly jewels, and made for her alitter of red gold adorned with pearls and jewels,appropriating to her use ten mules for the journey. The litter appearedlike a private chamber, and its occupant like one of the beautifulooreeyehs, her canopy resembling one of the pavilions ofParadise. They packed up the treasures and wealth, and placed them uponthe mules and camels, and the King Zahr Shah went with them to thedistance of three leagues, and then bade farewell to his daughter andthe Wezeer and his attendants, and returned home in joy and safety.