NINTH.THE STORY OF THE FISHERMAN.There was a certain fisherman, advanced in age, who had a wife and threechildren. and though he was in indigent circumstances, it was his customto cast his net, every day, no more than four times. One day he wentforth at the hour of noon to the shore of the sea, and put down hisbasket, and cast his net, and waited until it was motionless in thewater, when he drew together its strings, and found it to be heavy: hepulled, but could not draw it up: so he took the end of the cord, andknocked a stake into the shore, and tied the cord to it. He thenstripped himself, and dived round the net, and continued to pull untilhe drew it out: whereupon he rejoiced, and put on his clothes. but whenhe came to examine the net, he found in it the carcass of an ass. At thesight of this he mourned, and exclaimed, There is no strength nor powerbut in God, the High, the Great! This is a strange piece offortune! And he repeated the following verse: O thou who occupiest thyself in the darkness of night, and in peril!Spare thy trouble. for the support of Providence is not obtainedby toil!He then disencumbered his net of the dead ass, and wrung it out. afterwhich he spread it, and descended into the sea, and exclaiming, In thename of God! cast it again, and waited till it had sunk and was still,when he pulled it, and found it more heavy and more difficult to raisethan on the former occasion. He therefore concluded that it was full offish: so he tied it, and stripped, and plunged and dived, and pulleduntil he raised it, and drew it upon the shore. when he found in it onlya large jar, full of sand and mud. on seeing which, he was troubled inhis heart, and repeated the following words of the poet: O angry fate, forbear! or, if thou wilt not forbear, relent!Neither favour from fortune do I gain, nor profit from the workof my hands,I came forth to seek my sustenance, but have found it to be exhausted.How many of the ignorant are in splendour! and how many of the wise,in obscurity!So saying, he threw aside the jar, and wrung out and cleansed his net.and, begging the forgiveness of God for his impatience, returned to thesea the third time, and threw the net, and waited till it had sunk andwas motionless: he then drew it out, and found in it a quantity ofbroken jars and pots.Upon this, he raised his head towards heaven, and said, O God, Thouknowest that I cast not my net more than four times. and I have now castit three times! Then exclaiming, In the name of God! he cast the netagain into the sea, and waited till it was still. when he attempted todraw it up, but could not, for it clung to the bottom. And he exclaimed,There is no strength nor power but in God! and stripped himself again,and dived round the net, and pulled it until he raised it upon theshore. when he opened it, and found in it a bottle of brass,filled with something, and having its mouth closed with a stopper oflead, bearing the impression of the seal of our lord Suleyman.At the sight of this, the fisherman was rejoiced, and said, This Iwill sell in the copper market. for it is worth ten pieces of gold.He then shook it, and found it to be heavy, and said, I must open it,and see what is in it, and store it in my bag. and then I willsell the bottle in the copper market. So he took out a knife, andpicked at the lead until he extracted it from the bottle. He then laidthe bottle on the ground, and shook it, that its contents might pourout. but there came forth from it nothing but smoke, which ascendedtowards the sky, and spread over the face of the earth. at which hewondered excessively. And after a little while, the smoke collectedtogether, and was condensed, and then became agitated, and was convertedinto an 'Efreet, whose head was in the clouds, while his feet restedupon the ground: his head was like a dome: his hands werelike winnowing forks. and his legs, like masts: his mouthresembled a cavern: his teeth were like stones. his nostrils, liketrumpets. and his eyes, like lamps. and he had dishevelledand dust coloured hair.When the fisherman beheld this 'Efreet, the muscles of his sidesquivered, his teeth were locked together, his spittle dried up, and hesaw not his way. The 'Efreet, as soon as he perceived him, exclaimed,There is no deity but God: Suleyman is the Prophet of God. O Prophet ofGod, slay me not. for I will never again oppose thee in word, or rebelagainst thee in deed! O Marid, said the fisherman, dost thou say,Suleyman is the Prophet of God? Suleyman hath been dead a thousand andeight hundred years. and we are now in the end of time. What is thyhistory, and what is thy tale, and what was the cause of thy enteringthis bottle? When the Marid heard these words of the fisherman, he said,There is no deity but God! Receive news, O fisherman! Of what, said thefisherman, dost thou give me news? He answered, Of thy being instantlyput to a most cruel death. The fisherman exclaimed, Thou deservest, forthis news, O master of the 'Efreets, the withdrawal of protection fromthee, O thou remote! Wherefore wouldst thou kill me? and whatrequires thy killing me, when I have liberated thee from the bottle, andrescued thee from the bottom of the sea, and brought thee up upon thedry land? The 'Efreet answered, Choose what kind of death thou wiltdie, and in what manner thou shalt be killed. What is my offence, saidthe fisherman, that this should be my recompense from thee? The 'Efreetreplied, Hear my story, O fisherman. Tell it then, said the fisherman,and be short in thy words. for my soul hath sunk down to my feet.Know then, said he, that I am one of the heretical Jinn: I rebelledagainst Suleyman the son of Daood: I and akhr the Jinnee.and he sent to me his Wezeer, Aaf the son of Barkhiya, who came upon meforcibly, and took me to him in bonds, and placed me before him: andwhen Suleyman saw me, he offered up a prayer for protection against me,and exhorted me to embrace the faith, and to submit to his authority.but I refused. upon which he called for this bottle, and confined me init, and closed it upon me with the leaden stopper, which he stamped withthe Most Great Name: he then gave orders to the Jinn, who carried meaway, and threw me into the midst of the sea. There I remained a hundredyears. and I said in my heart, Whosoever shall liberate me, I willenrich him for ever: but the hundred years passed over me, and no oneliberated me: and I entered upon another hundred years. and I said,Whosoever shall liberate me, I will open to him the treasures of theearth. but no one did so: and four hundred years more passed over me,and I said, Whosoever shall liberate me, I will perform for him threewants: but still no one liberated me. I then fell into a violent rage,and said within myself, Whosoever shall liberate me now, I will killhim. and only suffer him to choose in what manner he will die. And lo,now thou hast liberated me, and I have given thee thy choice of themanner in which thou wilt die.When the fisherman had heard the story of the 'Efreet, he exclaimed, OAllah! that I should not have liberated thee but in such a time as this!Then said he to the 'Efreet, Pardon me, and kill me not, and so may Godpardon thee. and destroy me not, lest God give power over thee to onewho will destroy thee. The Marid answered, I must positively kill thee.therefore choose by what manner of death thou wilt die. The fishermanthen felt assured of his death. but he again implored the 'Efreet,saying, Pardon me by way of gratitude for my liberating thee. Why,answered the 'Efreet, I am not going to kill thee but for that veryreason, because thou hast liberated me. O Sheykh of the 'Efreets, saidthe fisherman, do I act kindly towards thee, and dost thou recompense mewith baseness? But the proverb lieth not that saith, We did good to them, and they returned us the contrary. and such,by my life, is the conduct of the wicked.Thus he who acteth kindly to the undeserving is recompensed inthe same manner as the aider of Umm 'Amir.The 'Efreet, when he heard these words, answered by saying, Covet notlife, for thy death is unavoidable. Then said the fisherman withinhimself, This is a Jinnee, and I am a man. and God hath given me soundreason. therefore, I will now plot his destruction with my art andreason, like as he hath plotted with his cunning and perfidy. So he saidto the 'Efreet, Hast thou determined to kill me? He answered, Yes. Thensaid he, By the Most Great Name engraved upon the seal of Suleyman, Iwill ask thee one question. and wilt thou answer it to me truly? Onhearing the mention of the Most Great Name, the 'Efreet was agitated,and trembled, and replied, Yes. ask, and be brief. The fisherman thensaid, How wast thou in this bottle? It will not contain thy hand or thyfoot. how then can it contain thy whole body? Dost thou not believethat I was in it? said the 'Efreet. The fisherman answered, I will neverbelieve thee until I see thee in it. Upon this, the 'Efreet shook, andbecame converted again into smoke, which rose to the sky, and thenbecame condensed, and entered the bottle by little and little, until itwas all enclosed. when the fisherman hastily snatched the sealed leadenstopper, and, having replaced it in the mouth of the bottle, called outto the 'Efreet, and said, Choose in what manner of death thou wilt die.I will assuredly throw thee here into the sea, and build me a house onthis spot. and whosoever shall come here, I will prevent his fishing inthis place, and will say to him, Here is an 'Efreet, who, to any personthat liberates him, will propose various kinds of death, and then givehim his choice of one of them. On hearing these words of the fisherman,the 'Efreet endeavoured to escape. but could not, finding himselfrestrained by the impression of the seal of Suleyman, and thusimprisoned by the fisherman as the vilest and filthiest and least of'Efreets. The fisherman then took the bottle to the brink of the sea.The 'Efreet exclaimed, Nay! nay! to which the fisherman answered, Yea,without fail! yea, without fail! The Marid then addressing him with asoft voice and humble manner, said, What dost thou intend to do with me,O fisherman? He answered, I will throw thee into the sea. and if thouhast been there a thousand and eight hundred years, I will make thee toremain there until the hour of judgment. Did I not say to thee, Spareme, and so may God spare thee. and destroy me not, lest God destroythee? But thou didst reject my petition, and wouldest nothing buttreachery. therefore God hath caused thee to fall into my hand, and Ihave betrayed thee. Open to me, said the 'Efreet, that I may conferbenefits upon thee. The fisherman replied, Thou liest, thou accursed! Iand thou are like the Wezeer of King Yoonan and the sageDooban. What, said the 'Efreet, was the case of the Wezeer ofKing Yoonan and the sage Dooban, and what is their story? The fishermananswered as follows: THE STORY OF KING YOONAN AND THE SAGE DOOBAN.Know, O 'Efreet, that there was, in former times, in the country of thePersians, a monarch who was called King Yoonan, possessing greattreasures and numerous forces, valiant, and having troops of everydescription. but he was afflicted with leprosy, which the physicians andsages had failed to remove. neither their potions, nor powders, norointments were of any benefit to him. and none of the physicians wasable to cure him. At length there arrived at the city of this king agreat sage, stricken in years, who was called the sage Dooban: he wasacquainted with ancient Greek, Persian, modern Greek, Arabic, and Syriacbooks, and with medicine and astrology, both with respect to theirscientific principles and the rules of their practical applications forgood and evil. as well as the properties of plants, dried and fresh,the injurious and the useful: he was versed in the wisdom of thephilosophers, and embraced a knowledge of all the medical and othersciences.After this sage had arrived in the city, and remained in it a few days,he heard of the case of the King, of the leprosy with which God hadafflicted him, and that the physicians and men of science had failed tocure him. In consequence of this information, he passed the next nightin deep study. and when the morning came, and diffused its light, andthe sun saluted the Ornament of the Good, he attired himself inthe richest of his apparel, and presented himself before the King.Having kissed the ground before him, and offered up a prayer for thecontinuance of his power and happiness, and greeted him in the bestmanner he was able, he informed him who he was, and said, O King, I haveheard of the disease which hath attacked thy person, and that many ofthe physicians are unacquainted with the means of removing it. and Iwill cure thee without giving thee to drink any potion, or anointingthee with ointment. When King Yoonan heard his words, he wondered, andsaid to him, How wilt thou do this? By Allah, if thou cure me, I willenrich thee and thy children's children, and I will heap favours uponthee, and whatever thou shalt desire shall be thine, and thou shalt bemy companion and my friend. He then bestowed upon him a robe ofhonour, and other presents, and said to him, Wilt thou cure me ofthis disease without potion or ointment? He answered, Yes. I will curethee without any discomfort to thy person. And the King was extremelyastonished, and said, O Sage, at what time, and on what day, shall thatwhich thou hast proposed to me be done? Hasten it, O my Son. Heanswered, I hear and obey.He then went out from the presence of the King, and hired a house, inwhich he deposited his books, and medicines, and drugs. Having donethis, he selected certain of his medicines and drugs, and made agoff stick, with a hollow handle, into which he introduced them. afterwhich he made a ball for it, skilfully adapted. and on the followingday, after he had finished these, he went again to the King, and kissedthe ground before him, and directed him to repair to the horse course,and to play with the ball and goff stick. The King, attended by hisEmeers and Chamberlains and Wezeers, went thither, and, as soon as hearrived there, the sage Dooban presented himself before him, and handedto him the goff stick, saying, Take this goff stick, and grasp it thus,and ride along the horse course, and strike the ball with it with allthy force, until the palm of thy hand and thy whole body become moistwith perspiration, when the medicine will penetrate into thy hand, andpervade thy whole body. and when thou hast done this, and the medicineremains in thee, return to thy palace, and enter the bath, andwash thyself, and sleep: then shalt thou find thyself cured: and peacebe on thee. So King Yoonan took the goff stick from the sage, andgrasped it in his hand, and mounted his horse. and the ball was thrownbefore him, and he urged his horse after it until he overtook it, whenhe struck it with all his force. and when he had continued this exerciseas long as was necessary, and bathed and slept, he looked upon his skin,and not a vestige of the leprosy remained: it was clear as white silver.Upon this he rejoiced exceedingly. his heart was dilated, and he wasfull of happiness.On the following morning he entered the council chamber, and sat uponhis throne. and the Chamberlains and great officers of his court camebefore him. The sage Dooban also presented himself. and when the Kingsaw him, he rose to him in haste, and seated him by his side. Servicesof food were then spread before them, and the sage ate with the King,and remained as his guest all the day. and when the nightapproached, the King gave him two thousand pieces of gold, besidesdresses of honour and other presents, and mounted him on his own horse,and so the sage returned to his house. And the King wasastonished at his skill. saying, This man hath cured me by an externalprocess, without anointing me with ointment: by Allah, this isconsummate science. and it is incumbent on me to bestow favours andhonours upon him, and to make him my companion and familiar friend aslong as I live. He passed the night happy and joyful on account of hisrecovery, and when he arose, he went forth again, and sat upon histhrone. the officers of his court standing before him, and the Emeersand Wezeers sitting on his right hand and on his left. and he called forthe sage Dooban, who came, and kissed the ground before him. and theKing rose, and seated him by his side, and ate with him, and greeted himwith compliments: he bestowed upon him again a robe of honour and otherpresents, and, after conversing with him till the approach of night,gave orders that five other robes of honour should be given to him, anda thousand pieces of gold. and the sage departed, and returned to hishouse.Again, when the next morning came, the King went as usual to hiscouncil chamber, and the Emeers and Wezeers and Chamberlains surroundedhim. Now there was, among his Wezeers, one of ill aspect, and of evilstar. sordid, avaricious, and of an envious and maliciousdisposition. and when he saw that the King had made the sage Dooban hisfriend, and bestowed upon him these favours, he envied him thisdistinction, and meditated evil against him. agreeably with the adagewhich saith, There is no one void of envy. and another, whichsaith, Tyranny lurketh in the soul: power manifesteth it, and weaknessconcealeth it. So he approached the King, and kissed the ground beforehim, and said, O King of the age, thou art he whose goodness extendethto all men, and I have an important piece of advice to give thee: if Iwere to conceal it from thee, I should be a base born wretch: therefore,if thou order me to impart it, I will do so. The King, disturbed bythese words of the Wezeer, said, What is thy advice? He answered, Oglorious King, it hath been said, by the ancients, He who looketh not toresults, fortune will not attend him: now I have seen the King in a waythat is not right. since he hath bestowed favours upon his enemy, andupon him who desireth the downfall of his dominion: he hath treated himwith kindness, and honoured him with the highest honours, and admittedhim to the closest intimacy: I therefore fear, for the King, theconsequence of this conduct. At this the King was troubled, and hiscountenance changed. and he said, Who is he whom thou regardest as mineenemy, and to whom I shew kindness? He replied, O King, if thou hastbeen asleep, awake! I allude to the sage Dooban. The King said, He ismy intimate companion, and the dearest of men in my estimation. for herestored me by a thing that I merely held in my hand, and cured me of mydisease which the physicians were unable to remove, and there is not nowto be found one like to him in the whole world, from west to east.Wherefore, then, dost thou utter these words against him? I will, fromthis day, appoint him a regular salary and maintenance, and give himevery month a thousand pieces of gold. and if I gave him a share of mykingdom it were but a small thing to do unto him. I do not think thatthou hast said this from any other motive than that of envy. If I didwhat thou desirest, I should repent after it, as the man repented whokilled his parrot.