Connla of the Fiery Hair was son of Conn of the Hundred Fights. One dayas he stood by the side of his father on the height of Usna, he saw amaiden clad in strange attire coming towards him."Whence comest thou, maiden?" said Connla."I come from the Plains of the Ever Living," she said, "there wherethere is neither death nor sin. There we keep holiday alway, nor needwe help from any in our joy. And in all our pleasure we have no strife.And because we have our homes in the round green hills, men call us theHill Folk."The king and all with him wondered much to hear a voice when they sawno one. For save Connla alone, none saw the Fairy Maiden."To whom art thou talking, my son?" said Conn the king.Then the maiden answered, "Connla speaks to a young, fair maid, whomneither death nor old age awaits. I love Connla, and now I call himaway to the Plain of Pleasure, Moy Mell, where Boadag is king for aye,nor has there been complaint or sorrow in that land since he has heldthe kingship. Oh, come with me, Connla of the Fiery Hair, ruddy as thedawn with thy tawny skin. A fairy crown awaits thee to grace thy comelyface and royal form. Come, and never shall thy comeliness fade, nor thyyouth, till the last awful day of judgment."The king in fear at what the maiden said, which he heard though hecould not see her, called aloud to his Druid, Coran by name."Oh, Coran of the many spells," he said, "and of the cunning magic, Icall upon thy aid. A task is upon me too great for all my skill andwit, greater than any laid upon me since I seized the kingship. Amaiden unseen has met us, and by her power would take from me my dear,my comely son. If thou help not, he will be taken from thy king bywoman's wiles and witchery."Then Coran the Druid stood forth and chanted his spells towards thespot where the maiden's voice had been heard. And none heard her voiceagain, nor could Connla see her longer. Only as she vanished before theDruid's mighty spell, she threw an apple to Connla.For a whole month from that day Connla would take nothing, either toeat or to drink, save only from that apple. But as he ate it grew againand always kept whole. And all the while there grew within him a mightyyearning and longing after the maiden he had seen.But when the last day of the month of waiting came, Connla stood by theside of the king his father on the Plain of Arcomin, and again he sawthe maiden come towards him, and again she spoke to him."'Tis a glorious place, forsooth, that Connla holds among short livedmortals awaiting the day of death. But now the folk of life, theever living ones, beg and bid thee come to Moy Mell, the Plain ofPleasure, for they have learnt to know thee, seeing thee in thy homeamong thy dear ones."When Conn the king heard the maiden's voice he called to his men aloudand said:"Summon swift my Druid Coran, for I see she has again this day thepower of speech."Then the maiden said: "Oh, mighty Conn, fighter of a hundred fights,the Druid's power is little loved. it has little honour in the mightyland, peopled with so many of the upright. When the Law will come, itwill do away with the Druid's magic spells that come from the lips ofthe false black demon."Then Conn the king observed that since the maiden came, Connla his sonspoke to none that spake to him. So Conn of the hundred fights said tohim, "Is it to thy mind what the woman says, my son?""'Tis hard upon me," then said Connla. "I love my own folk above allthings. but yet, but yet a longing seizes me for the maiden."When the maiden heard this, she answered and said "The ocean is not sostrong as the waves of thy longing. Come with me in my curragh, thegleaming, straight gliding crystal canoe. Soon we can reach Boadag'srealm. I see the bright sun sink, yet far as it is, we can reach itbefore dark. There is, too, another land worthy of thy journey, a landjoyous to all that seek it. Only wives and maidens dwell there. If thouwilt, we can seek it and live there alone together in joy."When the maiden ceased to speak, Connla of the Fiery Hair rushed awayfrom them and sprang into the curragh, the gleaming, straight glidingcrystal canoe. And then they all, king and court, saw it glide awayover the bright sea towards the setting sun. Away and away, till eyecould see it no longer, and Connla and the Fairy Maiden went their wayon the sea, and were no more seen, nor did any know where they came.