When Taj el Mulook heard this story, his heart became troubled with lovefor the lady Dunya. He then mounted his horse, and, taking with him'Azeez, returned to his father's city, where he assigned to him a house,and furnished it with everything that he required. after which he lefthim, and repaired to his palace. His tears ran down upon his cheeks (forhearing affecteth as sight and union), and in this state he remaineduntil his father came in to him, and, finding that his colour waschanged, knew that he was oppressed by anxiety and grief: so he said tohim, O my son, acquaint me with thy case, and tell me what hath happenedto thee to change thy colour. He therefore related to him all that hehad heard of the story of Dunya, and how he had fallen in love with herfrom hearsay, without having seen her. whereupon his father said to him,O my son, her father is a King, and his country is distant from us:abandon, therefore, this idea, and enter the palace of thy mother. forin it are five hundred female slaves like so many moons, and whoever ofthem pleaseth thee do thou take her. or, if none of them please thee, wewill demand in marriage for thee one of the daughters of the Kings, morebeautiful than the lady Dunya. But he replied, O my father, I desire notany but her: it was she who worked the design of the gazelles that Isaw, and I must have her, or I will flee into the deserts, and killmyself on her account.So his father said, Have patience with me, O my son, that I may send toher father and demand her of him in marriage, and accomplish for theethy wish, like as I did for myself in the case of thy mother. and if heconsent not, I will convulse his kingdom around him, and send againsthim an army of which the rear shall be with me when the van is with him.He then called for the young man 'Azeez, and said to him, O my son,knowest thou the way? He answered, Yes. Then I desire of thee, said theKing, that thou journey with my Wezeer. And 'Azeez replied, I hear andobey, O King of the age. The King, therefore, summoned his Wezeer, andsaid to him, Manage for me the affair of my son according to thyknowledge, and repair to the Islands of Camphor, and demand in marriagethe daughter of their King. He replied, I hear and obey. AndTaj el Mulook returned to his apartments, and his malady and impatienceincreased: he fell down in a swoon, and recovered not until the morning.and when the morning arrived, his father came to him, and saw hiscomplexion more changed, and his sallowness increased. and he exhortedhim to patience, and promised him the accomplishment of his union.The King then equipped 'Azeez, with his Wezeer, and supplied them withthe presents. and they journeyed days and nights until they beheld theIslands of Camphor, when they halted on the bank of a river, and theWezeer sent forward a messenger from his party to the King, to acquainthim with their approach. and half a day after the departure of themessenger, suddenly they saw that the chamberlains of the King, and hisemeers, had advanced to meet them from the distance of a league. andthey met him, and attended them until they went in with them to theKing. They placed before the King the presents, and remained in hispalace four days. and on the fifth day the Wezeer arose and went in tothe King, and, standing before him, delivered to him his message, andacquainted him with the cause of his coming. but the King was perplexedhow to answer, for his daughter liked not marriage. and he hung down hishead for a while towards the floor. and after this he raised it, and,looking towards one of the eunuchs, said to him, Go to thy mistressDunya, and acquaint her with what thou hast heard, and with the purposeof the visit of this Wezeer. So the eunuch went, and, after a shortabsence, returned to the King, and said to him, O King of the age, whenI went in to the lady Dunya, and acquainted her with what I had heard,she was violently enraged, and rose against me with a stick, and wouldhave broken my head. wherefore I fled from her. and she said to me, Ifmy father force me to marry, him whom I marry I will kill. Her father,therefore, said to the Wezeer and 'Azeez, Salute ye the King, and informhim of this, and that my daughter liketh not marriage. Accordingly theWezeer returned with his attendants unsuccessful, and they continuedtheir journey until they went in unto the King, and acquainted him withwhat had happened. and upon this he ordered the chiefs to call togetherthe troops that they might march to war. but the Wezeer said to him, Donot this. for the King is not in fault: the refusal is on the part ofhis daughter, who, when she knew of this proposal, sent to say, If myfather force me to marry, I will kill him whom I marry, and kill myselfafter him.And when the King heard the words of the Wezeer, he feared for his sonTaj el Mulook, and said, If I make war upon her father, and obtainpossession of his daughter, she will kill herself. He then acquaintedhis son Taj el Mulook with the truth of the case. and when the princeheard it, he said to his father, O my father, I cannot exist withouther: I will therefore go to her, and seek means of obtaining aninterview with her, though I die in the attempt: and I will do nothingbut this. His father said, How wilt thou go to her? He answered, I willgo in the disguise of a merchant. Then if it must be so, rejoined theKing, take with thee the Wezeer and 'Azeez. He then took forth for himsome money from his treasuries, and prepared for him merchandise at theprice of a hundred thousand pieces of gold, and they both agreed as tothis course. and when night came, Taj el Mulook and 'Azeez went to theabode of the latter, and there passed that night. But the heart ofTaj el Mulook was captivated, and neither eating nor rest pleased him:reflections overwhelmed him, and he was drowned in them. and, longingfor his beloved, he poured forth his tears, and wept violently. and'Azeez wept with him, reflecting upon his cousin. and they bothcontinued thus until the morning, when Taj el Mulook arose and went into his mother. He was equipped for the journey. and she asked himrespecting his state: so he acquainted her with the whole truth. and shegave him fifty thousand pieces of gold, and bade him farewell, and hewent forth from her, while she offered up prayers for his safety, andfor his union with the object of his love. He then went in to hisfather, and asked his permission to depart. and the King granted himpermission, and gave him fifty thousand pieces of gold, and ordered thata tent should be pitched for him outside the city.A large tent was therefore pitched for him. and after they had remainedin it two days, they commenced their journey. and Taj el Mulook treated'Azeez with familiar kindness, and said to him, O my brother, I cannothenceforth part with thee. And I, replied 'Azeez, am of the like mind,and desire to die at thy feet. but, O my brother, my heart is troubledwith thoughts of my mother. So Taj el Mulook said, When we shall haveattained our wish, all will be well. Now the Wezeer had chargedTaj el Mulook to display an air of patience, and 'Azeez occupied himselfwith reciting to him verses, and narrating to him histories and tales.and they continued on their way by night and day for the space of twomonths. The length of the journey became wearisome to Taj el Mulook. andthe violence of his desire, and his passion and distraction, increased:so when they drew near to the city, he rejoiced excessively, and hisanxiety and grief ceased.They entered it in the garb of merchants, the King's son being also cladin the same manner, and, coming to a place known as the abode ofmerchants, which was a large Khan, Taj el Mulook said to 'Azeez, Is thisthe abode of the merchants? 'Azeez answered, Yes: it is not, however,the Khan in which I lodged with the caravan that I accompanied. but itis better than that. So they made their camels lie down, and unloaded,and, having deposited their goods in the magazines, remained there totake rest four days. The Wezeer then suggested to them that they shouldhire for themselves a large house. to which they assented. and theyhired a spacious house, fitted for festivities. There they took up theirabode. and the Wezeer and 'Azeez studied to devise some stratagem forthe sake of Taj el Mulook, who was perplexed, not knowing what to do.The Wezeer could contrive no other plan than that of his opening forhimself a shop to carry on the trade of a merchant in the market of finestuffs: he therefore addressed Taj el Mulook and 'Azeez, and said tothem, Know that if we remain in this state we shall not attain our wish.and a thing hath occurred to my mind which probably may be advisable, ifit be the will of God. So they replied, Do what seemeth fit to thee. fora blessing attendeth the aged, and especially in thy case, since thouhast devoted thyself to the management of affairs: therefore give us theadvice which hath suggested itself to thy mind. And he said toTaj el Mulook, It is my opinion that we should hire for thee a shop inthe market of fine stuffs, and that thou shouldst sit in it to sell andbuy. for every person of the higher ranks and of the people in generalstandeth in need of such stuffs, and if thou sit in that shop thy affairwill be arranged, if it be the will of God (whose name be exalted!),especially because of thy comely person. but make 'Azeez thy trustyattendant, and seat him in the shop to hand to thee the stuffs. And whenTaj el Mulook heard these words, he said, This is a judiciousopinion. and immediately he took forth a suit of merchant's attire,and clad himself in it, and arose and went forth, followed by his youngmen, and gave to one of them a thousand pieces of gold to fit up theshop.They proceeded until they arrived at the market of fine stuffs, and whenthe merchants saw Taj el Mulook, and observed his handsome and comelyperson, they were confounded, and began to say, Hath Riwanopened the gates of Paradise and neglected them, so that this youth ofsurprising beauty hath come forth? and one said, This is probably oneof the angels. And when they went in among the merchants, they inquiredfor the shop of the Sheykh of the market. The merchants, therefore,guided them thither, and they went to him. and as they approached him,he and the merchants who were with him rose to them, and received themwith honour, especially the excellent Wezeer. for they saw him to be anaged and venerable man. and observing that he was accompanied byTaj el Mulook and 'Azeez, they said, No doubt this sheykh is the fatherof these two young men. The Wezeer then said to them, Who among you isthe Sheykh of the market? They answered, This is he. And the Wezeer,looking at him and observing him, saw that he was an old man of graveand respectable aspect, and possessing servants and young men. TheSheykh of the market greeted them with friendly compliments, and treatedthem with great honour, and, having seated them by his side, said tothem, Have ye any business which we may have the happiness oftransacting? The Wezeer answered, Yes: I am an old man, advanced in age,and I have these two young men: I have travelled with them through allregions and countries, and have not entered a town without remaining init a whole year, that they might amuse themselves with the sight of itand become acquainted with its inhabitants. and now I have come to thisyour town, and have chosen to make a stay in it: I therefore desire ofthee one of the best shops, that I may seat them in it to traffic, andthat they may amuse themselves with the sight of this city, and acquirethe manners of its people, and obtain an experience in buying andselling and other commercial transactions.So the Sheykh of the market replied, There will be no harm in doingso: and, looking at the two young men, he was delighted with them, andhe arose and stood like a servant before them to wait upon them. Andafterwards he went and prepared for them the shop: it was in the midstof the market, and there was none larger than it, nor any more handsomethere. for it was spacious and decorated, and contained shelves ofivory and ebony. He then delivered the keys to the Wezeer (who was alsoin the garb of a merchant), and said, God grant that it may be attendedwith blessings to thy two sons! And when the Wezeer hadtaken the keys of the shop, he went to it, together with the servants,who deposited in it their goods. and they ordered the servants to removethither all the merchandise and stuffs and rarities that they had. Thesethings were worth treasuries of wealth. and they transported the wholeof them to the shop. They then passed the night, and in the morning theWezeer conducted the two young men to the bath, where they washed andenjoyed themselves to the utmost, after which they returned to theirabode to rest from the fatigue of bathing, and ate and drank. and theypassed the next night in their abode in the most perfect joy andhappiness. And on the following morning they rose from their sleep, and,having performed the ablution, recited the divinely ordained prayers,and drank their morning beverage. and when daylight came,and the shops and markets were opened, they went forth from their abode,and repaired to the market, and opened the shop. The servants hadprepared it for them in the handsomest manner, and spread it withcarpets of silk, and placed in it two mattresses, each of which wasworth a hundred pieces of gold. and upon each mattress they spread askin such as Kings sit upon, surrounded with an edge of gold: soTaj el Mulook seated himself upon one mattress, and 'Azeez upon theother, and the Wezeer sat in the midst of the shop, while the servantsstood before them. The people heard of them, and crowded about them, andthey sold of their merchandise. and the fame of Taj el Mulook was spreadthrough the city, and the report of his handsomeness and comeliness wasblazed throughout it. They continued this life for several days, thepeople pressing to them. after which the Wezeer addressed Taj el Mulook,and enjoined him to conceal his case, and, having charged 'Azeez to keepwatch over him, repaired to the house to plan some mode of proceedingthat might be of advantage to them. Meanwhile, Taj el Mulook and 'Azeezsat conversing together. and the former said, Perhaps some one may comefrom the lady Dunya.Thus Taj el Mulook passed his time days and nights, and slept not.desire overpowered him, and he became more and more emaciated andinfirm, renouncing the delight of sleep, and abstaining from drink andfood. but still he was like the full moon: and as he was sitting oneday, lo, an old woman approached and advanced towards him, followed bytwo female slaves, and she continued to draw near until she stopped athis shop. Beholding his graceful person, and his handsome and lovelyaspect, she wondered at his beauty, and said, Extolled be the perfectionof Him who created thee! Extolled be the perfection of Him who hath madethee a temptation to all creatures! She ceased not to gaze at him, andsaid, This is not a mortal: this is no other than a nobleangel! Then drawing close to him, she saluted him, and hereturned her salutation, and rose to her, standing upon hisfeet, and smiled in her face. All this he did at thehinting of 'Azeez. after which he seated her by his side, and occupiedhimself with fanning her until she had rested herself. when she said tohim, O my son! O thou of perfect qualities and graces! art thou of thiscountry? Taj el Mulook answered her, with an eloquent and sweet andcharming voice, By Allah, O my mistress, in my life I never entered thiscountry until now. and I have not taken up my abode in it but for thesake of amusement. And she wished him honour, and welcomed him, andsaid, What stuffs hast thou brought with thee? Show me somethingbeautiful. for the beautiful bringeth not anything but what isbeautiful. And when Taj el Mulook heard her words his heartpalpitated. but he understood not their meaning: so 'Azeez made a signto him. and Taj el Mulook said to her, I have everything that thoudesirest of stuffs suitable only to Kings and the daughters of Kings.For whom, then, wouldst thou purchase, that I may display to thee whatwill be appropriate? He desired by this question to learn the meaningof her words. and she answered, I want some stuff suitable to the ladyDunya, the daughter of King Shah Zeman. On hearing the mention of hisbeloved, Taj el Mulook rejoiced exceedingly, and said to 'Azeez, Bringme the most magnificent of the goods that are by thee. And 'Azeez gavehim a wrapper, and untied it before her, and Taj el Mulook said to her,Choose what will suit her. for this is such as is not found with any butme. So the old woman chose some stuff that was worth a thousand piecesof gold. and said, What is the price of this? What! said he, shall Ibargain with a person like thee respecting this contemptible thing?Praise be to God who hath made me acquainted with thee. And the oldwoman exclaimed, I invoke, for thy comely face, the protection of theLord of the Daybreak! for verily thy face is comely, andso are thine actions. Joy be to her who possesseth thee, and especiallyif she be endowed with beauty like thee! Upon this, Taj el Mulooklaughed until he fell backwards, and said , OAccomplisher of desires by the means of wicked old women!And she said to him, O my son, what is thy name? He answered, My name isTaj el Mulook. This, she replied, is one of the names of Kings. butthou art in the garb of the merchants. So 'Azeez said, From theaffection of his family for him, and the high estimation in which theyheld him, they gave him this name. And the old woman replied, Thou hastspoken truth. May God avert from you the evil of the envious, thoughhearts be broken by your charms!She then took the stuff, and departed, confounded by his handsomenessand loveliness and elegant form. and she proceeded until she went in tothe lady Dunya, when she said to her, O my mistress, I have brought theesome beautiful stuff. Shew it me, said the lady. And she replied, O mymistress, here it is: turn it over, and behold it. And when the ladyDunya saw it, she said to her, O my nurse, verily this is beautifulstuff. I have not seen such in our city! O my mistress, replied the oldwoman, the seller of it surpasseth it in beauty. It seemeth as thoughRiwan had opened the gates of Paradise and neglected them, and so themerchant who selleth this stuff had come forth from it. I wish he werewith thee. for he is a temptation to every one who beholdeth him. Hehath come to our city with these stuffs for the sake of amusement. Atthese words of the old woman the lady Dunya laughed, and said, Allahafflict thee, thou ill omened old woman! Thou hast spoken nonsense, andart become insane. She then added, Give me the stuff that I may examineit closely. So the old woman handed it to her, and she looked at itagain, and saw that it was but little, and that its price was great. andshe wondered at its beauty. for she had never in her life seen anythinglike it. The old woman then said to her, O my mistress, if thou didstbehold its owner, thou wouldst know that he is the handsomest person onthe face of the earth. And the lady Dunya said to her, Didst thou askhim if he had any want to be performed, that he might acquaint us withit, and thou mightest accomplish it for him? The old woman, shaking herhead, replied, Allah preserve thy sagacity! By Allah, he hath a want.And is any person without one? Go to him, then, said the lady Dunya,and salute him, and say to him, I have been honoured by thine arrival inour city, and whatever want thou hast, we will perform it for thee onthe head and the eye.The old woman, therefore, returned immediately to Taj el Mulook, andwhen he saw her, his heart leaped with joy, and he rose to her, standingupon his feet, and, taking her hand, seated her by his side. So when shehad sat and rested herself, she informed him of that which the ladyDunya had said. On hearing this, he was filled with the utmost joy. hisbosom expanded, and he said within himself, I have accomplished my wish!He then said to the old woman, Perhaps thou wilt convey to her a letterfrom me, and bring me back the answer. She replied, I hear and obey. Andwhen he heard her reply, he said to 'Azeez, Give me an inkhorn andpaper, and a pen of brass. And 'Azeez having given him these things, hewrote the following verses: I write to thee a letter, O object of my petition, expressiveof the torment that I suffer from separation.And first, I make known to thee the ardour of my heart. and secondly,my desire and eager longing.And thirdly, the expiring of my life and patience. and fourthly,that all the violence of my love remaineth.And fifthly, I ask, When shall I behold thee? and sixthly,When shall be the day of our union?He then added beneath, This letter is from the captive of desire,incarcerated in the prison of longing expectation, to whom there can beno liberation but by enjoying an interview, even were it with thephantom of the object of his hope. for he is enduring a painful tormentfrom the separation of his beloved. Then his tears flowed, and he wrotethese two verses: I write unto thee with my tears flowing, and the drops frommy eyes descending incessantly.But I am not despairing of the favour of my Lord: perhapssome day our union may take place.He then folded the letter, and sealed it, and gave it to the old woman,saying, Convey it to the lady Dunya. She replied, I hear and obey. Andhe gave her a thousand pieces of gold, and said, Receive this as apresent from me. So the old woman took it and departed, praying for him.She stopped not until she went in to the lady Dunya, who, when shebeheld her, said to her, O my nurse, what hath he demanded that weshould do for him? O my mistress, she answered, he hath sent with me aletter, and I know not its contents. And she handed the letter to her.So the lady Dunya took it and read it, and understood its meaning, andexclaimed, Whence is he, and to what doth he aspire, that this merchantopeneth a correspondence with me? Then slapping her face, she said, Wereit not for my fear of God (whose name be exalted!) I would crucify himupon his shop. So the old woman said to her, What is in this letter,that it hath disturbed thy heart? Doth it contain a complaint ofoppression, or a demand for the price of the stuff? Wo to thee! sheanswered: it containeth not that, nor anything but love and affection.and all this is through thee. Or, if not, how should this devil presumeto employ these words? O my mistress, replied the old woman, thou artresiding in thy lofty palace, and no one can obtain access to thee. noteven the flying bird. Allah preserve thee from blame and censure! Thouhast nothing to fear from the barking of dogs. Be not angry with me formy bringing thee this letter when I knew not its contents: but it is myopinion that thou shouldst return him an answer, and threaten him in itwith slaughter, and forbid him from employing these vain words. for hewill abstain, and not do so again. The lady Dunya said, I fear to writeto him, lest he covet me more. But the old woman replied, When heheareth the threatening, and promise of punishment, he will desist fromhis present conduct. So she said, Bring me an inkhorn and paper, and apen of brass. And when they had brought them to her, she wrote theseverses: O pretender to love and affliction and sleeplessness, and feelingsof rapturous passion, and anxiety!Dost thou seek for a meeting, O deceived, from a moon? Doth anyattain from a moon his wish?I advise thine abstaining from thy desire: forbear then. for thouart exposed to peril.If thou again make use of these words, I will visit thee witha punishment of the utmost severity.By Him who created mankind of clotted blood,and who gave light to the sun and the moon!If thou repeat the proposal thou hast made, I will assuredly crucifythee on the trunk of a tree.She then folded up the letter, and gave it to the old woman, saying toher, Deliver it to him, and say to him, Abstain from these words. Andshe replied, I hear and obey.She took the letter, full of joy, and went with it to herhouse, where she passed the night. and in the morning she repaired tothe shop of Taj el Mulook, whom she found expecting her. As soon as hebeheld her, he almost flew with joy, and when she drew near to him herose to her, standing upon his feet, and seated her by his side. and shetook forth the letter, and handed it to him, saying, Read its contents.She then said to him, The lady Dunya, when she read thy letter, wasenraged. but I coaxed her and jested with her until I made her laugh,and she was moved with pity for thee, and returned thee an answer. SoTaj el Mulook thanked her for this, and, having ordered 'Azeez to giveher a thousand pieces of gold, read the letter, and understood it. andhe wept violently, so that the heart of the old woman was moved withcompassion for him, and his weeping and complaining grieved her. Shesaid to him, O my son, and what is in this paper, that it hath madethee weep? He answered, She threateneth me with slaughter andcrucifixion, and forbiddeth my writing to her. but if I write not toher, my death will be preferable to my life. therefore take a reply toher letter, and let her do what she will. By thy youth, replied the oldwoman, I must risk my life for thee, and enable thee to attain thydesire, and accomplish for thee that which is in thy heart. AndTaj el Mulook said, Whatsoever thou dost I will requite thee for it. andit shall be determined by thee. for thou art experienced in themanagement of affairs, and skilled in the modes of intrigue, andeverything that is difficult becometh easy to thee. and God is able toaccomplish all things. So he took a paper, and wrote in it theseverses: She threatened me with slaughter. O my bereavement! Slaughterwould be ease to me, and death is decreed.Death is better than life prolonged to the love smitten who isdebarred from enjoyment and treated with oppression.By Allah, visit a helpless lover. for I am your slave, and the slaveis in captivity.O my mistress, have mercy on me for my passion. for every one wholoveth the virtuous is excusable.Having done this, he sighed heavily, and wept until the old woman weptwith him. after which she took the letter from him, and said to him, Behappy and cheerful. for I must accomplish for thee thy wish.She then arose, and left him as though he were upon the fire, andrepaired to the lady Dunya, whom she found with a countenance changed byher anger in consequence of the former epistle of Taj el Mulook. and shehanded her the second letter. whereupon her rage increased, and she saidto the old woman, Did I not tell thee that he would covet us more? Andwhat is this dog, said the old woman, that he should aspire to thee? Thelady Dunya replied, Go to him, and say to him, If thou write to heragain she will strike off thy head. But the old woman said, Do thouwrite this to him in a letter, and I will take it with me, that his fearmay be the greater. So she took a paper, and wrote in it the followingverses: O thou who art heedless of the course of misfortunes, and who canst notaccomplish thy desired union!Dost thou think, O deceived, to attain to Es Suha, whenthou canst not reach to the shining moon?How then dost thou venture to hope for our union, and to hold in thineembrace my javelin like form?Quit, therefore, this project, in fear of my assault on a dayof adversity when hair shall become gray.Having folded this letter, she handed it to the old woman, who took itand repaired with it to Taj el Mulook. At the sight of her he rose, andsaid, May God never deprive me of the blessing of thy coming! And theold woman replied, Receive the answer to thy letter. So he took thepaper and read it, and wept violently, and said, I desire now some oneto kill me. for slaughter would be easier to me than this my presentstate of suffering. He then took an inkhorn and a pen and paper, andwrote a letter expressed in these two verses: O my hope, persist not in abandonment and cruelty. but visita lover drowned in desire.Think not that I can survive this oppression. for my souldeparteth at the loss of my beloved.And he folded the letter, and gave it to the old woman, saying to her, Ihave wearied thee to no purpose. And again he ordered 'Azeez to give hera thousand pieces of gold, and said to her, O my mother, this paper mustbe followed by complete union or complete separation. O my son, shereplied, by Allah, I desire for thee nothing but good fortune: and Iwish she may be with thee. for thou art the shining moon, and she is therising sun. and if I do not bring you together, no profit will remain tome in my life. I have passed my life in the practice of artifice anddeceit, until I have attained the age of ninety years. and how thenshould I fail of uniting two persons in opposition to all law?Then, having bidden him farewell, and soothed his mind, she departed,and proceeded without stopping to the lady Dunya. but she had hidden thepaper in her hair. and when she sat down with her mistress, shescratched her head, and said, O my mistress, perhaps thou wilt untwistmy hair. for it is a long time since I have entered the bath. So thelady Dunya made bare her arms to the elbows, and untwisted the oldwoman's hair. whereupon the paper fell from her head. and the ladyDunya, seeing it, said, What is this paper? The old woman answered, Itseemeth that, when I was sitting at the shop of the merchant, this papercaught to me: give it me, therefore, that I may return it to him. Butthe lady Dunya opened it and read it, and understood its contents, andexclaimed, This is a trick of thine, and were it not for the fact of thyhaving reared me, I would lay violent hands upon thee this moment. Godhath afflicted me by this merchant, and all that I have experienced fromhim hath been through thy means. I know not from what country this manhath come. No one but he could ever use such boldness towards me. Ifear that this affair which hath happened to me may be discovered, andespecially since it relateth to a man who is neither of my family nor ofmy equals. The old woman then addressed her, and said, No one can uttera word on this subject, through fear of thy power, and of the dignity ofthy father: and there will be no harm in thy returning him an answer. Omy nurse, replied the lady Dunya, this is a devil. How hath he dared touse these words, and feared not the power of the Sulan? I am perplexedrespecting his case. for if I give orders to kill him, it will not beright: and if I leave him, he will increase in his boldness. Write tohim a letter, rejoined the old woman. and perhaps he will be restrained.She therefore demanded a paper and an inkhorn and a pen, and wrote tohim the following verses: Though repeatedly rebuked, still gross ignorance inciteth thee.How oft shall my hand write verses to forbid thee?Thou increasest in eagerness after each prohibition. but I willonly permit thee to conceal thy secret.Conceal then thy love, and never more utter it. for if thou utter it,I will not regard thee.If thou repeat what thou hast said, the raven of separation willannounce thy fate:In a little time will death overtake thee, and thy resting placebe beneath the earth:Thou shalt leave thy family, O deceived, in sorrow, when the swordsof love have prevented thine escape.Having then folded the paper, she gave it to the old woman, who took it,and went with it to Taj el Mulook, and gave it to him. and when he hadread it, and was convinced that she was hard hearted, and that he couldnot obtain access to her, he complained of his case to the Wezeer, anddesired his prudent counsel. The Wezeer replied, Know that thereremaineth for thee nothing that can be of avail, except thy writing toher another letter, and invoking retribution upon her. So he said, O mybrother, O 'Azeez, write in my stead, according to thy knowledge. And'Azeez took the paper, and wrote these verses: O my Lord, by the Five Elders, deliver me. and to herwho hath afflicted me transfer my anguish!For Thou knowest that I am suffering a tormenting flame, and my belovedhath oppressed me, and will not pity me.How long shall I feel tenderly to her in my affliction! And how longshall she tyrannize over my weakness!I wander in agonies never ending, and find not a person, O my Lord,to assist me.'Azeez then folded the letter, and handed it to Taj el Mulook. and whenhe had read it, it pleased him, and he gave it to the old woman.So she took it, and repaired with it to the lady Dunya, who, as soon asshe had read it, and understood its contents, fell into a violent rage,and exclaimed, All that hath befallen me hath been through the means ofthis ill omened old woman! And she called out to the female slaves andeunuchs, and said, Seize this artful old woman, and beat her with yourslippers. So they fell to beating her with their slippers until shefainted. and when she recovered, the lady Dunya said to her, O wickedold woman, were it not for my fear of God (whose name be exalted!) I hadkilled thee. She then said to her attendants, Beat her again. And theybeat her again until she fainted. after which she ordered them to throwher outside the door. and they dragged her along upon her face and threwher down before the door.When she recovered, therefore, she rose, and, walking and resting nowand then, arrived at her abode. She waited until the morning, and thenrose and proceeded to Taj el Mulook, whom she acquainted with all thathad befallen her. and it vexed him, and he said to her, We are grieved,O my mother, for that which hath happened to thee: but everything is inaccordance with fate and destiny. She replied, Be happy and cheerful.for I will not cease my endeavours until I procure thee an interviewwith her, and obtain for thee access to this vile woman who hathtortured me with beating. Taj el Mulook then said to her, Acquaint mewith the cause of her hatred of men. She replied, It is in consequenceof her having had a dream. And what was that dream? he asked. Sheanswered, She was sleeping one night, and saw a fowler who set his snareupon the ground, and sprinkled around it some wheat, and then seatedhimself near it. and there was not a single bird near it but it came tothat snare. And she saw, among the birds, two pigeons, a male and afemale. and while she was looking at the snare, the foot of the malebird became entangled in it, and he began to struggle. whereupon all theother birds flew away from him in alarm. but his mate returned to him,and flew around over him, and then, alighting upon the snare, while thefowler was inadvertent, began to peck at the mesh in which was the footof the male, and pulled it with her beak, until she liberated his foot.and she flew away with him. Then, after this, the fowler came andreadjusted the snare, and seated himself at a distance from it. and buta little while had elapsed when the birds descended, and the snarecaught the female pigeon. upon which all the other birds flew away inalarm, and among them the male pigeon, who returned not to his mate: sothe fowler came and took the female bird, and killed her. And the ladyDunya awoke terrified by her dream, and said, Every male is like this,destitute of good. and men universally are devoid of goodness towomen. And when the old woman had finished her story to Taj el Mulook,he said to her, O my mother, I wish to obtain one glance at her, thoughmy death be the consequence: contrive, therefore, some stratagem for me,that I may see her. Know, then, said she, that she hath a gardenadjacent to her palace, for her diversion, and she goeth out into itonce in every month, from the private door, and remaineth in it tendays. The time of her thus going forth to divert herself hath nowarrived, and when she is about to do so I will come to thee and informthee, that thou mayest go thither and meet her. and do thou take carenot to quit the garden: for probably, if she behold thy handsome andcomely aspect, her heart will be captivated by love of thee. since loveis the most powerful means of effecting union.He replied, I hear and obey: and he arose, and quitted the shop with'Azeez, and they both, taking with them the old woman, repaired to theirabode, and acquainted her with it. after which, Taj el Mulook said to'Azeez, O my brother, I have no further want of the shop. for I haveaccomplished the purpose for which I took it. and I give it to thee,with all that it containeth, because thou hast come abroad with me, andabsented thyself from thy country. And 'Azeez accepted his present, andthey sat conversing together. Taj el Mulook asking him respecting hisstrange adventures, and 'Azeez relating what had happened to him. Then,addressing the Wezeer, they acquainted him with the purpose ofTaj el Mulook, and asked him, What is to be done? He answered, Let us goto the garden. So each of them clad himself in the richest of hisapparel, and they went forth, followed by three memlooks, and repairedto the garden. They beheld it abounding with trees, and with manyrivulets, and saw the superintendent sitting at the gate. They salutedhim, therefore, and he returned their salutation, and the Wezeer handedto him a hundred pieces of gold, saying to him, I beg thee to receivethis money, and to buy for us something to eat. for we are strangers,and I have with me these children whom I wish to divert. So the gardenertook the pieces of gold, and replied, Enter, and divert yourselves. forthe whole of it is your property: and sit down until I return to youwith something for you to eat. He then went to the market, and theWezeer and Taj el Mulook and 'Azeez entered the garden after thegardener had departed to the market. and soon the latter returned,bringing a roasted lamb, which he placed before them. And they ate, andwashed their hands, and sat conversing together. and the Wezeer said,Inform me respecting this garden: doth it belong to thee, or dost thourent it? The sheykh replied, It is not mine, but belongeth to the King'sdaughter, the lady Dunya. And what, said the Wezeer, is thy monthlysalary? He answered, One piece of gold, and no more. And the Wezeer,taking a view of the garden, beheld there a lofty but old pavilion. andhe said, O sheykh, I desire to perform here a good work by which thouwilt be reminded of me. And what good thing dost thou desire to do?asked the sheykh. The Wezeer said, Take these three hundred pieces ofgold. And when the superintendent heard the mention of the gold, hereplied, O my master, do whatsoever thou wilt. So he took the pieces ofgold. and the Wezeer said to him, If it be the will of God (whose namebe exalted!), we will execute in this place a good work.They then went forth from him, and returned to their abode, and passedthe next night. and on the morrow, the Wezeer caused a whitewasher to bebrought, and a painter, and an excellent goldsmith. and, having providedthem with all the implements that they required, introduced them intothe garden, and ordered them to whitewash that pavilion and to decorateit with various kinds of paintings. After which he gave orders to bringthe gold, and the ultramarine pigment, and said to the painter,Delineate, at the upper end of this saloon, the figure of a fowler, asthough he had set his snare, and a female pigeon had fallen into it, andhad become entangled in it by her bill. And when the painter hadfinished his picture on one portion, the Wezeer said to him, Now paint,on this other portion, as before, and represent the female pigeon in thesnare, and shew that the fowler hath taken her, and put the knife to herneck. and on the other side paint the figure of a great bird of prey,that hath captured the male pigeon, and fixed his talons into him. So hedid this. and when he had finished these designs which the Wezeer haddescribed to him, they took leave of the gardener, and returned to theirabode.There they sat conversing together. and Taj el Mulook said to 'Azeez, Omy brother, recite to me some verses: perhaps my heart may thereby bedilated, and these troubling reflections may be dispelled, and the flamethat is in my heart be quenched. And upon this, 'Azeez, with charmingmodulations, chanted these verses: Ibn Seena hath asserted that the lover's remedyconsisteth in melodious sounds,And the company of one like his beloved, and the pleasuresof a dessert and wine and a garden:But I have taken another in thy stead to cure myself, and fateand contingency aided me:Yet I found that love was a mortal disease, for which Ibn Seena'smedicine was vain.Meanwhile, the old woman remained alone in her house. and the lady Dunyalonged to divert herself in the garden. but she used not to go forthsave with the old woman: so she sent to her, and conciliated her, andsoothed her mind, and said to her, I desire to go out into the garden,to amuse myself with the sight of its trees and fruits, and that myheart may be dilated by its flowers. The old woman replied, I hear andobey. but I would first go to my house and dress myself, and I will bewith thee again. Go, then, to thy house, rejoined the lady Dunya. butbe not long absent from me. The old woman, therefore, went forth fromher, and repaired to Taj el Mulook, and said to him, Make ready, andclothe thyself in the richest of thine apparel, and betake thyself tothe garden, and go in to the gardener and salute him, and then concealthyself in the garden. He replied, I hear and obey. And she agreed withhim respecting a sign to be made. after which she returned to the ladyDunya. And when she had gone, the Wezeer arose, and clad Taj el Mulookin a suit of the most magnificent of the apparel of Kings, worth fivethousand pieces of gold, and girded him with a girdle of gold set withjewels, and repaired to the garden. On arriving at its gate, they foundthe superintendent sitting there. and when he saw Taj el Mulook, he roseto him, standing upon his feet, and, receiving him with reverence andhonour, opened to him the gate, and said to him, Enter, and divertthyself in the garden. But the gardener knew not that the King'sdaughter would enter the garden that day. And when Taj el Mulook hadgone in, he waited but a short time, and heard a noise. and before heknew the cause, the eunuchs and female slaves came forth from theprivate door. and as soon as the superintendent beheld them, he went andacquainted Taj el Mulook with their coming, saying to him, O my lord,what is to be done, now that the King's daughter, the lady Dunya, hathcome? He answered, No harm will befall thee. for I will conceal myselfin some place in the garden. So the gardener charged him to use theutmost caution in concealing himself, and left him, and departed.