An impoverished father died, leaving his two sons only a bench and a cat. As he closed his eyes he said, "Divide this small inheritance between the two of you. Let there be no dispute about it."The older brother said, "I'll take the bench, then at least I can sit down and rest as often as I like.""And I'll take the cat," said the younger one, whose name Martin. "She likes me, and is always following me everywhere."They went their separate ways into the world. The older brother carried the bench with him, and whenever he got tired he sat down on it and rested. Martin, however, went on his way with the cat, and had every reason to be happy about his choice. Whenever he got hungry, the cat went into a house where a table had been set, then before the eyes of the astonished people she carried food away to her master. Thus he never lacked food and drink. The cat also took care of his dress by stealing a beautiful piece of clothing here and there, and bringing it to him. Thus he was dressed like a real gentleman.Therefore the cat said to him, "When the people ask about your name, tell them that you are called Count Martin of the Cat.He liked this idea. "I would never have dreamed," he said, laughing to himself, "that with the help of my dear cat I should become a count."One day they came to a wide plain. There were beautiful green meadows and fields, and they asked the people to whom they belonged."To such and such a count," they replied.They went onward, coming to magnificent forests and still more beautiful meadows with numerous flocks and shepherds. As often as they asked, everything belonged to that count. Finally they came to the palace where the rich old count himself lived with his wife.They were received there graciously. When the old gentlemen went to the cellar to get wine, the cat took the opportunity to creep after him, then strangled him in the cellar. The count's wife then went to the cellar to see what was keeping her husband so long. The cat jumped on her, and strangled her too.Then the cat went upstairs to her master and said, "The two old ones down in the cellar are dead. Now you are the master of the palace. You must behave as such. Leave all the rest to me."Then she ran out to the fields and meadows and forests, and everywhere she saw mowers, woodsmen, or shepherds, she cried, "The old count and his wife are dead, and have named my lord, Count Martin of the Cat, as their heir. He is now your rightful master. He has charged me with making this known to you, so that you may know his name and obey him alone."Everywhere the people replied, "We are your servants, Madame Cat. If our old master has died, then he died well. Long live our new master!"Count Martin of the Cat had now the most wonderful life in the world.One day his brother came to the castle, still carrying the bench with him, and still desperately poor. He did not recognize Martin, but the latter took him in and gave him a position as overseer in his court. He too now had a good life and could sit on his bench whenever he wanted to.Some time later the cat said to her master, "I feel that I'm getting old, and that my end is near. I have helped you to your good fortune, so show your thanks by having me buried with dignity and with a beautiful gravestone. I deserve this much."Then she secretly decided to put her master to the test. One day she lay down on the floor, pretending to be dead.When Martin saw her, he said, "So the disgusting animal is finally dead!" And he was about to throw he body out into the courtyard.Jumping to her feet, the cat cried out, "You unthankful one, is this how you are going to treat the one to whom you owe everything?" She continued with a stream of rebukes, all of which he silently accepted, for he knew that he deserved the condemnation.Finally he answered her, saying that he was sorry and asking for her forgiveness. "After you death of course I will have you buried with dignity and give you a beautiful gravestone," he solemnly promised.More time passed, and the cat did indeed die. Count Martin kept his promise and had her solemnly buried. I almost do not want to say so, but I was told that he had her buried in a church. He is said to have placed a beautiful gravestone in her honor, upon which her achievements were engraved in glowing words.Today the stone is no longer to be found, nor can anyone remember having seen it. Furthermore, no one knows what has become of it.