Notes of the Folk Lore of the Northern Countiesof England and the BordersIn the southern counties of Scotland children are considered beforebaptism at the mercy of the fairies, who may carry them off at pleasure orinflict injury upon them. Hence, of course, it is unlucky to takeunbaptized children on a journey   a belief which prevails throughoutNorthumberland, and indeed in many other parts of the countryBrand mentions this danger ( Popular Antiquities, vol. 2, p. 73),and says the Danish women guard their children during this period againstevil spirits by placing in the cradle, or over the door, garlic slat,bread, and steel in the form of some sharp instrument. "Something likethis," he adds, "obtained in England." and accordingly I am told that inthe West Riding of Yorkshire "a child was kept safe while sleeping byhanging a carving knife from the head of the cradle with the pointsuspended near the infant's face."In Germany, the proper things to lay in the cradle are "orant" (which istranslated into either horehound or snapdragon), blue marjoram, blackcumin, a right shirt sleeve, and a left stocking. The "Nickert" cannotthen harm the child.The modern Greeks dread witchcraft at this period of their children'slives, and are careful not to leave them alone during their first eightdays, within which period the Greek Church refuses to baptize them.(Wright's Literature of the Middle Ages , vol. 1, p. 291)In Scotland the little one's safeguard is held to lie in the juxtapositionof some article of dress belonging to its father. This was experienced bythe wife a shepherd near Selkirk. Soon after the birth of her firstchild, a fine boy, she was lying in bed with her baby by her side, whensuddenly she became aware of a confused noise of talking and merrylaughter in the "spence," or room. This, in fact, proceeded from thefairies, who were forming a child of wax as a substitute for the baby,which they were planning to steal away. The poor mother suspected asmuch, so in great alarm she seized her husband's waistcoat, which chancedto be lying at the foot of the bed, and flung it over herself and thechild. The fairies set up a loud scream, calling out "Auld Luckie hascheated us o' our bairnie!"Soon afterwards the woman heard something fall down the lum (or chimney),and looking out she saw a waxen image of her baby, stuck full of pins,lying on the hearth.When her husband came home he made up a large fire and threw the fairylump upon it. but, instead of burning, the thing flew up the chimney, andthe house instantly resounded with shouts of joy and peals of laughter.Family affection must have been very strong when any trifle closelyconnected with the father was deemed a safeguard for the child, asafeguard needed till its baptism shielded it from every evil or malicioussprite.