Death has become one of the great taboos of the twentieth century. Atthe most basic level, the level of sustenance, we do our best to hide fromourselves (and certainly from our children) the harsh facts about friedchicken, hamburgers, and bacon. A pet, too old and frail to live muchlonger, is "put to sleep." At the human level, we are even more isolatedfrom the one final act that we must all experience. Few people die athome. Funeral "homes" turn the act of mourning a "departed" loved one intoa sanitized reunion of family and friends. The deceased are not "dead,"they have merely "passed on." Euphemisms proliferate.It has not always been so. Our forebears, young and old alike,frequently witnessed the slaughter of animals (or their capture bypredators), and they were not spared the reality of human death. Theycould not avoid this reality, but they could laugh at it.Laughter is one of humankind's most basic defense mechanisms. Even inthe face of death, we can show our resolve and demonstrate our lastbastion of control by doing the unexpected: laughing. Gallows humor, inone form or another, permeates pre industrial European folklore, evenmaking its way into children's nursery tales and rhymes. Indeed, somecritics have claimed that traditional nursery rhymes are preoccupied withdeath and violence and have hence urged that they be rewritten for a morehumane and enlightened era. Consider the following catalog of horrorsostensibly found in traditional children's rhymes by GeoffreyHandley Taylor, writing in 1952:The average collection of 200 traditional nursery rhymes containsapproximately 100 rhymes which personify all that is glorious and idealfor the child. Unfortunately, the remaining 100 rhymes harbor unsavoryelements. The incidents listed below occur in the average collection andmay be accepted as a reasonably conservative estimate based on a generalsurvey of this type of literature.8 allusions to murder (unclassified),2 cases of choking to death,1 case of cutting a human being in half,1 case of decapitation,1 case of death by squeezing,1 case of death by shriveling,1 case of death by starvation,1 case of boiling to death,1 case of death by hanging,1 case of death by drowning,4 cases of killing domestic animals,1 case of body snatching,21 cases of death (unclassified),7 cases relating to the severing of limbs,1 case of the desire to have a limb severed,2 cases of self inflicted injury,4 cases relating to the breaking of limbs,1 allusion to a bleeding heart,1 case of devouring human flesh,5 threats of death,1 case of kidnapping,12 cases of torment and cruelty to human beings and animals,8 cases of whipping and lashing,3 allusions to blood,14 cases of stealing and general dishonesty,15 allusions to maimed human beings and animals,1 allusion to undertakers,2 allusions to graves,23 cases of physical violence (unclassified),1 case of lunacy,16 allusions to misery and sorrow,1 case of drunkenness,4 cases of cursing,1 allusion to marriage as a form of death,1 case of scorning the blind,1 case of scorning prayer,9 cases of children being lost or abandoned,2 cases of house burning,9 allusions to poverty and want,5 allusions to quarreling,2 cases of unlawful imprisonment,2 cases of racial discrimination.Expressions of fear, weeping, moans of anguish, biting, pain andevidence of supreme selfishness may be found in almost every otherpage.Source: As quoted by Baring Gould, The Annotated MotherGoose, pp. 20 21.Nursery rhymes have no monopoly on such tragedies. The following talesare known, in many variations, throughout Europe:The little hen choked on a nut. The cock ran to seek help, butwhen he returned, the hen had already died. Six mice pulled her funeralcarriage, but they slipped into a stream and drowned. The little cock dugher a grave. then he sat down and mourned until he died.Source: " The Death ofthe Little Hen " (type 2021, Grimm, no.80). For additional examples see Ashliman, A Guide to Folktales,pp. 311 312.A flea and a louse were brewing beer. The louse fell in andwas killed. A door, a broom, a cart, an ash pile, a tree, and a girl alljoined the flea in mourning the louse's death. Then a spring broke looseand drowned all the mourners.Source: Little Louseand LittleFlea , (type 2022, Grimm, no. 30). For additional examples seeMourning the Death of a Spouse:Chain Tales of Aarne Thompson Type 2022 andAshliman, A Guide to Folktales, p.312A pancake rolled out the door and down the road. Many animalstried to stop it, but it rolled past them all. A pig offered to carry itacross a brook. The pancake agreed, and the pig swallowed it in onegulp.Source: "The Pancake" (type 2025, Norway, Thompson, 100Favorite Folktales, no. 100). For additional examples seeThe Runaway Pancake: Folktales ofAarne ThompsonType 2025and Ashliman,A Guide to Folktales, pp. 312 313An acorn fell upon Chicken licken's head, and she thought thatthe sky had fallen, so she set off to tell the king. On the way she wasjoined by Hen len, Cock lock, Duck luck, Drake lake, Goose loose,Gander lander, Turkey lurkey, and finally Fox lox. Fox lox offered to showthem the way, but instead he took them to his den, where he and his youngones ate up poor Chicken licken, Hen len, Cock lock, Duck luck,Drake lake, Goose loose, Gander lander, and Turkey lurkey, and they neversaw the king to tell him that the sky had fallen!