less than an hour he arrived at the wall, which was very high indeed. Hesprang to the ground, fastened his horse to a tree, and soon found theiron gate. Then he took out his bottle and oiled the hinges, when thegate opened of itself, and he saw an old castle standing inside. ThePrince entered boldly into the courtyard.Suddenly he heard fierce howls, and a dog as tall as a donkey, with eyeslike billiard balls, came towards him, showing his teeth, which werelike the prongs of a fork. Desire flung him the oat cake, which thegreat dog instantly snapped up, and the young Prince passed quietly on.A few yards further he saw a huge oven, with a wide, red hot gapingmouth. A woman as tall as a giant was leaning over the oven. Desire gaveher the brush, which she took in silence.Then he went on to the well, drew up the cord, which was half rotten,and stretched it out in the sun.Lastly he went round the castle, and plunged into the orange grove.There he gathered the three most beautiful oranges he could find, andturned to go back to the gate.But just at this moment the sun was darkened, the earth trembled, andDesire heard a voice crying:'Baker, baker, take him by his feet, and throw him into the oven!''No,' replied the baker. 'a long time has passed since I first began toscour this oven with my own flesh. YOU never cared to give me a brush.but he has given me one, and he shall go in peace.''Rope, O rope!' cried the voice again, 'twine yourself round his neckand strangle him.''No,' replied the rope. 'you have left me for many years past to fall topieces with the damp. He has stretched me out in the sun. Let him go inpeace.''Dog, my good dog,' cried the voice, more and more angry, 'jump at histhroat and eat him up.''No,' replied the dog. 'though I have served you long, you nevergave me any bread. He has given me as much as I want. Let him go inpeace.''Iron gate, iron gate,' cried the voice, growling like thunder, 'fall onhim and grind him to powder.''No,' replied the gate. 'it is a hundred years since you left me torust, and he has oiled me. Let him go in peace.'