There was once an old farmer who had a great deal of turf, which hesold to customers in town. One day, when he drove to town with a largewagonload, he chanced to meet a doctor. This worthy man came walking alongin a stately manner, with a long pipe in his mouth, a cane in his hand,and a doctor's hat on his head. Under his arm he had a thick doctor book.He was wrapped in a long, loose mantle.The farmer tipped his hat reverently, whereupon the doctor addressedhim and said that he would like to buy the turf. They talked back andforth for some time, and finally came to an agreement in regard to theprice. The farmer was to have the long mantle, the pipe and the cane, thedoctor's hat and the book, and the doctor was to receive the turf. Thebargain was closed. The farmer secured the doctor's articles and thedoctor the farmer's turf, and then each went his own way.It was late before the farmer returned home to his wife. She asked himat once if he had made a good bargain. When he produced the entiredoctor's outfit she was not at all pleased, but wept, and asked,plaintively, how they would now obtain their bread and butter, since hehad received no money for the turf.Her husband did his best to comfort her, saying that in a little whilethey would have all that they needed, for now he had decided to take up adoctor's profession. He put on the mantle and the doctor's hat, and withthe long pipe dangling from between his teeth he sat from morning to nightreading diligently in the large doctor book. He looked exactly like a realdoctor. No one would notice the slightest difference. But, nevertheless,no one came to consult him.Thinking the reason might be that no one knew of him, he at length decidedto place a sign above his door stating, "Here Lives the Greatest Doctor inthe World," as he was sure this would at once turn the general attentiontowards him. He began to paint these letters on an old board. But as hehad a very faint idea of writing   in fact, this was the first time hehad ever tried the art   he wrote instead, "Here Lives the GreatestDetective in the World."A few days afterwards the king happened to pass the house of the"Greatest Detective.""What in all the world is written on that sign?" said he, dispatchingone of his servants over to examine it closely. The servant reported thatthe sign advertised the greatest detective in the world. "Well," said theking, "I shall remember him and employ his services some day."Some time after, it happened that a thief entered the royal stables andstole two of the king's best horses. A thorough search was made throughoutthe land, both for the thief and the horses, but without success. Atlength someone reminded the king of the detective whose house they hadpassed."Exactly so!" cried the king. "Now we shall find both thief andhorses." He at once bid one of his men go and seek the wise man's advicein the difficult problem. The man rode back, found the house, knocked atthe door, and walked in. Here he saw the detective sitting in front of thetable, reading in the large doctor book. He took off his hat, bowedpolitely, and presented the king's compliments. "I have come," he said,"to ask  ""That is all very well," interrupted the doctor. "I know italready.""Oh yes, of course you do," answered the messenger. "Will you kindlydirect me where to go and find them?""Ye es," replied the wise man, turning the leaves in the large bookbefore him. "I will tell you what to do. Wait a moment." Now he took out aslip of paper which he had found among the leaves in the book, folded it,and handed it to the messenger, directing him to go to the drugstore andhave this prescription filled. "Take the medicine promptly," he concluded,"then you will find them!" He looked just as wise and important as anydoctor in the land and waved his hand graciously at the messenger as asign that the audience was at an end.The messenger lost no time in having the prescription filled, and assoon as the medicine was in his hand he took a drink from the bottle, androde along as rapidly as he could, anxious to return to the king andrelate his interview with the extraordinary man who seemed to know allbeforehand.He had not gone very far, however, before the medicine began to act. Of asudden he was seized with a terrible headache, and was obliged to seekrefuge in a house near the road, where he was very kindly received.Thinking that a little rest would do him good, he lay down on a sofa in aroom facing the yard. The headache became more and more severe, however,and the poor fellow cursed the wise man and his medicine with all hisheart. But just as he complained of his evil fate, he heard the neighingof a horse in the stable across the yard.He arose quietly and approached the window, listening attentively, asthe neighing seemed familiar to him. Now the horse neighed once more. Hisdoubts vanished, and as the same moment his headache seemed to alsocompletely vanish. Silently he opened the window, jumped into the yard,crept into the stable, and at once found the stolen horses, which heimmediately untied. A few hours later he stood before the king, who didnot know how to praise and reward the wisdom of the Great Detective beforewhom nothing was, of course, concealed. He lost no time in sending him twohundred dollars as a token of his high esteem and his gratitude.When the doctor received the money he said to his wife that a doctor'strade seemed to be a very easy one, and she answered that his bargain,which had seemed to her a foolish one, was, after all, quite satisfactoryso far.Some time passed, when one day a beautiful gold ring belonging to theprincess was stolen. A diligent search was made, but it seemed to havevanished altogether, with the thief. At length the Great Detective wasnamed to the king as the right man to be consulted in this difficultaffair. His majesty lost no time in sending a beautiful carriage and amessenger, with an invitation to the great man. Would he kindly assist infinding the gold ring which had been stolen?"Yes, I know it all," said he to the messenger who stood before him,bowing politely, "and I am willing to come."So he entered the carriage in his complete doctor's outfit, followed byhis wife, whereupon they drove to the royal palace. The king himselfstepped forward and opened the carriage door to the worthy couple, bowingand scraping and making himself agreeable.He invited them to partake of a dinner. The following day they would beginthe search for the ring. The wise man assented to this, and they proceededto the dinner table, which was, of course, laid in a splendid and gorgeousmanner. The doctor whispered to his wife that she must remember how manydishes they had. When all had been seated, the door was opened and in camethe servant with the first dish.The wise man looked at his wife, nodded, and said, "This is the firstone." He did not see   in fact no one did   that the servant turned aspale as a sheet, but busied himself with doing justice to the excellentthings before him.The servant, however, was fearfully frightened, and before returning tothe kitchen he stopped behind the chair of the Great Detective, pluckinghim by the sleeve in order to attract his attention, but without apparentresult. The dismayed man had nothing to do but return to the kitchen.He was one of the thieves, and, with two other servants, had stolen thering and buried it in the royal gardens under a large apple tree. Pale andtrembling from fear, he told his two friends how the Great Detective hadsaid to his wife, "This is the first one"   meaning of course, the firstthief.As the second servant was to carry in the next dish, his two comradestold him to do his best and ask the wise man to step into the kitchen.Perhaps he could be induced to spare their lives. As the servant enteredthe dining hall, the doctor said to his wife, "This is the second one."She nodded.The servant grew white from fear and pulled him from behind by thesleeve. The great man thought, however, of nothing but the dishes, and didnot feel the servant's endeavor to attract his attention. Thus the poorfellow was obliged to return to the kitchen without having accomplishedhis errand.When the third servant entered, the doctor said to his wife, "This isthe third one."The servant pulled him, however, so violently by the sleeve that heturned in his chair, asking what he wanted. "Would he," whispered theunfortunate man, "go with him into the kitchen?" So he arose and followedhim.When he entered the kitchen the three servants implored him to sparethem. He was right. They had stolen the ring. The wise man looked keenlyat the three culprits, bit his lips, and said that of course he had knowit all the time. They were great rascals who deserved a severe punishment.He did not know whether he could really save them from the gallows.They now fell upon their knees and implored him to show mercy. Theywould be willing to give back the ring and pay him two hundred dollars ifhe would agree to keep their secret. This he promised, and before leavingthem he told them to put the ring into a cake and serve it to the king'sdog the next morning. They promised to do as he bid them.Next morning the king began to speak of the lost ring. The GreatDetective assumed his most important air, looked around him, and finallyfixed his glance upon the big dog which was walking about on the floor.They were just eating breakfast, and when one of the servants carriedaround the dishes he stole a glance at the doctor and nodded, thusassuring him that the dog had eaten the cake. "Can you tell me where tofind the thief and the ring?" pursued the king."Both are in this room!" answered he.The king looked around in great astonishment. "Both in this room?"repeated he."There is the thief," continued the doctor, pointing to the dog.Now the king was thoroughly amazed, and even angry. He thought the wiseman made fun of him. "Kill the thief," said the doctor, sternly, "and youwill be sure to find the ring." They did so at once, and, indeed, foundthe ring in the stomach of the animal.The wise man received a great sum of money from the king, and afterwardthe three servants paid him the two hundred dollars which they hadpromised him for keeping their secret.But from this day the doctor became so famous that no one dared tosteal. His very name frightened the thieves and made them control theirevil instincts. Although he was no more called upon to detect stolengoods, he had already earned money enough for the rest of his lifetime. Helived happily many years, honored by everyone in the land.