There was once a poor fagot cutter that used to work very hard, and one day that he took a load of fagots to the doctor in the next town, he was brought into the parlour to be paid, and didn't he admire the fine furniture he saw about him!When he was coming away, says he to the doctor, "Musha, sir, would you lend me one of these fine bound books for about a quarter of a year or so, and I'll return it honestly?""What is the book to be about?" says the doctor, "and what do you want with it?""I don't care what it's about," says he, "and I'll tell you when I return it the use I'll make of it."The doctor laughed, and gave him a well looking wolume, but I don't know no more nor the fagot cutter himself what was in it."A fine thing," says he, "to be slavin' oneself as I do for my bit and sup, and see what grandeur that man is in for doing nothing at all, as a body might say."When he got home, he removed bag and baggage into the town after selling his little furniture, and buying a shute of broad cloth, and a Caroline hat, and a Barcelona hankecher. He got a painter to put up a sign board with DOCTOR CURE ALL over his door, put some bottles on a shelf, and sat down at his little round table with his book before him.Well, he soon got custom, but all the cures he knew was bowl almanac (Bole Armeniac), salts and senna, castor oil, and sugar and soap for plasters. But he was so courageous in promising cures, and so many got well, no thanks to him, and there was so many that there was nothing amiss with at all, that he soon got a great name.He even recovered stolen things, for he gave out that he knew by his books who had them, and the thieves used to bring them unknownst to him, and give him some money for not telling on them.Well, there was a gentleman in the neighbourhood that had a very valuable ring taken from him, and he sent for Dr. Cure all to find out the thief for him."I'll find him out," says he, "if he's above ground, but it can't be done in a minute. I'll have to see where you kept it, and get a lock of hair from everyone in the house, and study my conjurin' book for eight days. The ninth morning you'll have the ring safe and sound. I'll have to stay on the premises the whole time.""Very good," says the gentleman.Well, he lived like a fighting cock for five days, but I give you my word he began then to get uneasy, for no one about the house seemed inclined to confess, though he gave out from the beginning that he'd have his hand on the thief the evening of the eighth day.The evening of the sixth he was walking in the paddock near the hedge, and he was muttering to himself, "Three days only now, and be this and be that there goes one of 'em!" says he in an angry voice.Well, there was three rogues of servants concerned in the robbery, and one of them was padrowlin' (patrolling) in the cabbage garden the other side of the hedge the same minute. He never drew rein till he got to the other fellows, and says he, "We're discovered as sure as fate."Well, they talked and they talked, and didn't know what to do till next evening, when the second of 'em was close by the hedge, and what did he hear but the doctor cry out, "And there goes the second of 'em!"Well, they were more frightened now than before, and came to the point of confessing if the doctor knew there was three of 'em.The next evening the poor man was walking sorrowful enough in the same place. "Ovoch!" was he saying to himself, "there was only three evenings of the time left since I took my walk here to give the thief an opportunity of talking to me," and then his heart was so bitter he cried out, "Here is the third of 'em!""Docthor, docthor," says a voice the other side of the hedge, "you're a considherate man. here's the ring and a guinea note along with it. Keep our secret.""You don't deserve it, you unlucky rogue, for delaying so long. The master 'ud have you in the stone jug (gaol) tomorrow only for your late repentance."Well, the whole family were assembled in the big parlour next morning, and the doctor sitting very stately in an arm chair."Who is the robber?" says the master."I know the robber, and the place he hid the ring," says the doctor, "but I can only reveal one. Which is it to be?"The master, of course, chose to get his valuable ring."Well, then," says he, "go to the hen house wherever that is. I don't know. Put your right hand on the little board that's inside over the door, and in the middle of it you'll find what you're in search of."Out went the mistress and the little girl that minded the fowl, and there the ring was sure enough.Well, there was great joy, you may depend, and very great honour was paid to the wise man, but the master's brother that came that day on a visit, wouldn't give the doctor any credit at all."Wait till dinner time," says he "and if I don't astonish his weak mind, you may say what you like."Well, the brother and his servant were cooking something very secretly in the kitchen before dinner time, and when that was over, and the doctor's health was drunk, and himself greatly praised, says the brother, "Doctor, I'll praise you more than all the family if you tell me what's in this covered plate."Ah, wouldn't anyone pity the poor man at that moment?"No use," says he to himself, "in throwing sand in people's eyes any longer." Then speaking out loud, says be, "Ah, sir, let the fox go as far as he pleases, he'll be cotch (caught) at last.""Well," says the gentleman, "I see I must give it up. It's a bit of a fox sure enough!"He lifted the cover for an instant, and then threw plate and cover and fox out of the window.And that's the way with the world. Impedence will bring a man through an auger hole, where an honest man can't get through an open gate.