Doctor Faustus was a very learned man. He sat day and night at his books in Castle Waardenburg seeking the philosopher's stone. From time to time he brewed all sorts of drinks in the castle cellar. But all of this came to nothing, and he became peevish and ill humored.One day the devil came to him and said: "My dear friend Faust, your labors are all in vain. You should take me into your service. I will be your servant for seven years and give you everything that your heart desires.""Very good," said Faust. "I have been seeking something like that for a long time."The devil responded: "If that is what you want, then first you must give me a pact written by hand with your blood."Faust did this at once, and pact was finalized.From that moment on there was nothing of beauty in the world that Faust did not desire. Everything had to come from Amsterdam and Paris. In the middle of winter he demanded lovely grapes, in the middle of summer snow and ice. In the courtyard a large hortensia blossomed continuously, and the garden was always filled with the most costly flowers.Faust did not stop there. The devil also had to get him a carriage with four horses that never tired. In the shortest time he could be in Constantinople, and come back just as fast.If he wanted to go to Bommel (Zaltbommel), he would just say: "Jost, I want a bridge over the Waal River immediately, and then break it down again at once!"The bridge appeared, and then vanished as soon as he had crossed over it.At that time the streets in Bommel were badly paved, but Faust had only to shout out: "Jost, run ahead of the horses and smooth everything out, but then put it back in its previous state, because I don't like the people of Bommel."Once Faust rode out of the door of a tavern mounted on a keg of the best Thielschen beer. Many guests saw this happen.Faust kept Jost busy the whole day. If Jost thought that he could could rest at the end of a day's hard work, then in the evening Faust would scatter a bushel of grain far and wide into the thorn hedges, and Jost had to gather everything up again during the night. Or he would throw a large amount of flour into the castle's moat, and Jost had to bring it all back, completely clean and unspoiled.Jost endured this for four years, but with all his labors he became so thin that he was pathetic to look at.At last his patience broke, and he said to Faust: "I am willing to have served you for four years in vain. I now beg you to dismiss me, because I cannot stand it any longer."Doctor Faustus laughed and said: "So you are tired? But I am not."Jost had to serve him for the remaining three years. However, when these three years had passed, promptly at twelve midnight Jost grabbed the doctor by his hair and pulled him to a large window in the castle tower, and from there to hell. The tower window still can be seen today.Jost pulled Faust through the bars of the window such that his bright red blood stuck to the window and splashed against the wall. People have often tried to clean the stains, but no rain, no snow, and no human hands can do that. The stains will remain there as long as the castle and the tower stand.