Dogedog had always been very lazy, and now that his father and mother weredeadand he had no one to care for him, he lived very poorly. He had little toeat.His house was old and small and so poor that it had not even a floor.Still hewould rather sit all day and idle away his time than to work and have morethings.One day, however, when the rainy season was near at hand, Dogedog beganthinkinghow cold he would be when the storms came, and he felt so sorry forhimself thathe decided to make a floor in his house.Wrapping some rice in a banana leaf for his dinner, he took his long knifeandwent to the forest to cut some bamboo. He hung the bundle of rice in atreeuntil he should need it. but while he was working a cat came and ate it.Whenthe hungry man came for his dinner, there was none left. Dogedog wentback tohis miserable little house which looked forlorn to him even, now that hehaddecided to have a floor.The next day he went again to the forest and hung his rice in the tree ashe didbefore, but again the cat came and ate it. So the man had to go homewithoutany dinner.The third day he took the rice, but this time he fixed a trap in the tree,andwhen the cat came it was caught."Now I have you!" cried the man when he found the cat. "and I shall killyou forstealing my rice.""Oh, do not kill me," pleaded the cat, "and I will be of some use toyou."So Dogedog decided to spare the cat's life, and he took it home and tiedit nearthe door to guard the house.Some time later when he went to look at it, he was very much surprised tofindthat it had become a cock."Now I can go to the cock fight at Magsingal," cried the man. And he wasveryhappy, for he had much rather do that than work.Thinking no more of getting wood for his floor, he started out at once forMagsingal with the cock under his arm.As he was crossing a river he met an alligator which called out to him:"Whereare you going, "Dogedog?""To the cock fight at Magsingal," replied the man as he fondly stroked therooster."Wait, and I will go with you," said the alligator. and he drew himselfout ofthe water.The two walking together soon entered a forest where they met a deer anditasked: "Where are you going, Dogedog?""To the cock fight at Magsingal," said the man."Wait and I will go with you," said the deer. and he also joined them.By and by they met a mound of earth that had been raised by the ants, andtheywould have passed without noticing it had it not inquired: "Where are yougoing,Dogedog?""To the cock fight at Magsingal," said the man once more. and the mound ofearthjoined them.The company then hurried on, and just as they were leaving the forest,theypassed a big tree in which was a monkey. "Where are you going, Dogedog?"shrieked the monkey. And without waiting for an answer, he scrambled downthetree and followed them.As the party walked along they talked together, and the alligator said toDogedog: "If any man wants to dive into the water, I can stay under longerthanhe."Then the deer, not to be outdone, said: "If any man wants to run, I canrunfaster."The mound of earth, anxious to show its strength, said: "If any man wantstowrestle, I can beat him."And the monkey said: "If any man wants to climb, I can go higher."They reached Magsingal in good time and the people were ready for thefight tobegin. When Dogedog put his rooster, which had been a cat, into the pit,itkilled the other cock at once, for it used its claws like a cat.The people brought more roosters and wagered much money, but Dogedog'scockkilled all the others until there was not one left in Magsingal, andDogedog wonmuch money. Then they went outside the town and brought all the cockstheycould find, but not one could win over that of Dogedog.When the cocks were all dead, the people wanted some other sport, so theybrought a man who could stay under water for a long time, and Dogedog madehimcompete with the alligator. But after a while the man had to come upfirst.Then they brought a swift runner and he raced with the deer, but the manwasleft far behind. Next they looked around until they found a very largeman whowas willing to contend with the mound of earth, but after a hard struggletheman was thrown. Finally they brought a man who could climb higher thananyoneelse, but the monkey went far above him, and he had to give up.All these contests had brought much money to Dogedog, and now he had tobuy twohorses to carry his sacks of silver. As soon as he reached home, hebought thehouse of a very rich man and went to live in it. And he was very happy,for hedid not have to work any more.