Once on a time there was a king who had twelve sons. When they weregrown big he told them they must go out into the world and win themselveswives, but these wives must each be able to spin, and weave, and sew ashirt in one day, else he wouldn't have them for daughters in law.To each he gave a horse and a new suit of mail, and they went out intothe world to look after their brides. but when they had gone a bit of theway, they said they wouldn't have Boots, their youngest brother, withthem. He wasn't fit for anything.Well, Boots had to stay behind, and he didn't know what to do orwhither to turn. and so he grew so downcast, he got off his horse, and satdown in the tall grass to weep. But when he had sat a little while, one ofthe tufts in the grass began to stir and move, and out of it came a littlewhite thing, and when it came nearer, Boots saw it was a charming littlelassie, only such a tiny bit of a thing. So the lassie went up to him, andasked if he would come down below and see "Doll i' the Grass."Yes, he'd be very happy. and so he went.Now, when he got down, there sat Doll i' the Grass on a chair. She wasso lovely and so smart, and she asked Boots wither he was going, and whatwas his business.So he told her how there were twelve brothers of them, and how the kinghad given them horse and mail, and said they must each go out into theworld and find them a wife who could spin, and weave, and sew a shirt in aday. "But if you'll only say at once you'll be my wife, I'll not go a stepfarther," said Boots to Doll i' the Grass.Well, she was willing enough, and so she made haste and span, and wove,and sewed the shirt, but it was so tiny, tiny little. It wasn't longerthan so    long.So Boots set off home with it, but when he brought it out he was almostashamed, it was so small. Still the king said he should have her, and soBoots set off, glad and happy to fetch his little sweetheart. So when hegot to Doll i' the Grass, he wished to take her up before him on hishorse. but she wouldn't have that, for she said she would sit and drivealong in a silver spoon, and that she had two small white horses to drawher. So off they set, he on his horse and she on her silver spoon, and thetwo horses that drew her were two tiny white mice. But Boots always keptthe other side of the road, he was so afraid lest he should ride over her,she was so little.So when they had gone a bit of the way, they came to a great piece ofwater. Here Boots' horse got frightened, and shied across the road andupset the spoon, and Doll i' the Grass tumbled into the water. Then Bootsgot so sorrowful, because he didn't know how to get her out again. But ina little while up came a merman with her, and now she was as well and fullgrown as other men and women, and far lovelier than she had been before.So he took her up before him on his horse, and rode home.When Boots got home all his brothers had come back, each with hissweetheart, but these were all so ugly, and foul, and wicked, that theyhad done nothing but fight with one another on the way home, and on theirheads they had a kind of hat that was daubed over with tar and soot, andso the rain had run down off the hats onto their faces, till they got faruglier and nastier than they had been before.When his brothers saw Boots and his sweetheart, they were all asjealous as jealous could be of her. but the king was so overjoyed withthem both, that he drove all the others away, and so boots held hiswedding feat with Doll i' the Grass, and after that they lived well andhappily together a long, long time, and if they're not dead, why they'realive still.