There was once a man whose name wasDon Giovanni de la Fortuna, and he lived in a beautiful house that hisfather had built, and spent a great deal of money. Indeed, he spent somuch that very soon there was none left, and Don Giovanni, instead ofbeing a rich man with everything he could wish for, was forced to put onthe dress of a pilgrim, and to wander from place to place begging hisbread. One day he was walking down a broad road when he was stopped bya handsome man he had never seen before, who, little as Don Giovanni knewit, was the devil himself."Would you like to be rich," asked thedevil, "and to lead a pleasant life?""Yes, of course I should,"replied the Don."Well, here is a purse. Take it and say to it, 'Dearpurse, give me some money,' and you will get as much as you can want. Butthe charm will only work if you promise to remain three years, threemonths, and three days without washing and without combing and withoutshaving your beard or changing your clothes. If you do all thisfaithfully, when the time is up you shall keep the purse for yourself, andI will let you off any other conditions."Now Don Giovanni was a manwho never troubled his head about the future. He did not once think howvery uncomfortable he should be all those three years, but only that heshould be able, by means of the purse, to have all sorts of things he hadbeen obliged to do without. So he joyfully put the purse in his pocket andwent on his way. He soon began to ask for money for the mere pleasure ofit, and there was always as much as he needed. For a little while he evenforgot to notice how dirty he was getting, but this did not last long, forhis hair became matted with dirt and hung over his eyes, and his pilgrim'sdress was a mass of horrible rags and tatters.He was in this statewhen, one morning, he happened to be passing a fine palace. and, as thesun was shining bright and warm, he sat down on the steps and tried toshake off some of the dust which he had picked up on the road. But in afew minutes a maid saw him, and said to her master, "I pray you sir, todrive away that beggar who is sitting on the steps, or he will fill thewhole house with his dirt."So the master went out and called from somedistance off, for he was really afraid to go near the man, "You filthybeggar, leave my house at once!""You need not be so rude," said DonGiovanni. "I am not a beggar, and if I chose, I could force you and yourwife to leave your house.""What is that you can do?" laughed thegentleman."Will you sell me your house?" asked Don Giovanni. "I willbuy it from you on the spot.""Oh, the dirty creature is quite mad!"thought the gentleman. "I shall just accept his offer for a joke." Andaloud he said, "All right. Follow me, and we will go to a lawyer and gethim to make a contract."And Don Giovanni followed him, and anagreement was drawn up by which the house was to be sold at once, and alarge sum of money paid down in eight days. Then the Don want to an inn,where he hired two rooms, and, standing in one of them, said to his purse,"Dear purse, fill this room with gold." And when the eight days were up itwas so full you could not have put in another sovereign.When the ownerof the house came to take away his money Don Giovanni led him into theroom and said, "There, just pocket what you want."The gentleman staredwith open mouth at the astonishing sight. But he had given his word tosell the house, so he took his money, as he was told, and went away withhis wife to look for some place to live in. And Don Giovanni left the innand dwelt in the beautiful rooms, where his rags and dirt looked sadly outof place. And every day these got worse and worse.By and by the fameof his riches reached the ears of the king, and, as he himself was alwaysin need of money, he sent for Don Giovanni, as he wished to borrow a largesum. Don Giovanni readily agreed to lend him what he wanted, and sent nextday a huge wagon laden with sacks of gold."Who can he be?" thought theking to himself. "Why, he is much richer than I!"The king took as muchas he had need of, then ordered the rest to be returned to Don Giovanni,who refused to receive it, saying, "Tell his majesty I am much hurt at hisproposal. I shall certainly not take back that handful of gold, and, if hedeclines to accept it, keep it yourself."The servant departed anddelivered the message, and the king wondered more than ever how anyonecould be so rich. At last he spoke to the queen, "Dear wife, this man hasdone me a great service, and has, besides, behaved like a gentleman in notallowing me to send back the money. I wish to give him the hand of oureldest daughter."The queen was quite pleased at this idea, and again amessenger was sent to Don Giovanni, offering him the hand of the eldestprincess."His majesty is too good," he replied. "I can only humblyaccept the honor."The messenger took back this answer, but a secondtime returned with the request that Don Giovanni would present them withhis picture, so that they might know what sort of a person to expect.But when it came, and the princess saw the horrible figure, shescreamed out, "What! Marry this dirty beggar? Never, never!""Ah, child," answered the king, "how could I ever guess that the rich DonGiovanni would ever look like that? But I have passed my royal word, and Icannot break it, so there is no help for you.""No, father, you may cutoff my head, if you choose, but marry that horrible beggar   I neverwill!"And the queen took her part, and reproached her husband bitterlyfor wishing his daughter to marry a creature like that.Then the youngest daughter spoke, "Dear father, do not look so sad. As you havegiven your word, I will marry Don Giovanni."The king fell on her neck, and thanked her and kissed her, but the queen and the elder girl had nothing for her but laughs and jeers.So it was settled, and thenthe king bade one of his lords go to Don Giovanni and ask him when thewedding day was to be, so that the princess might make ready. "Let itbe in two months," answered Don Giovanni, for the time was nearly up thatthe devil had fixed, and he wanted a whole month to himself to wash offthe dirt of the past three years.The very minute that the compact withthe devil had come to an end his beard was shaved, his hair was cut, andhis rags were burned, and day and night he lay in a bath of clear warmwater. At length he felt he was clean again, and he put on splendidclothes, and hired a beautiful ship, and arrived in state at the king'spalace.The whole of the royal family came down to the ship to receivehim, and the whole way the queen and the elder princess teased the sisterabout the dirty husband she was going to have. But when they saw howhandsome he really was their hearts were filled with envy and anger, sothat their eyes were blinded, and they fell over into the sea and weredrowned. And the youngest daughter rejoiced in the good luck that had cometo her, and they had a splendid wedding when the days of mourning for hermother and sister were ended.Soon after, the old king died, and Don Giovanni became king. And he was rich and happy to the end of his days, for he loved his wife, and his purse always gave him money.