DRAKESTAIL was very little, that is why he was called Drakestail. buttiny as he was he had brains, and he knew what he was about, for havingbegun with nothing he ended by amassing a hundred crowns. Now the Kingof the country, who was very extravagant and never kept any money,having heard that Drakestail had some, went one day in his own personto borrow his hoard, and, my word, in those days Drakestail was not alittle proud of having lent money to the King. But after the first andsecond year, seeing that they never even dreamed of paying the interest,he became uneasy, so much so that at last he resolved to go and see HisMajesty himself, and get repaid. So one fine morning Drakestail, veryspruce and fresh, takes the road, singing: 'Quack, quack, quack, whenshall I get my money back?'He had not gone far when he met friend Fox, on his rounds that way.'Good morning, neighbour,' says the friend, 'where are you off to soearly?''I am going to the King for what he owes me.''Oh! take me with thee!'Drakestail said to himself: 'One can't have too many friends.' ... 'Iwill,' says he, 'but going on all fours you will soon be tired. Makeyourself quite small, get into my throat go into my gizzard and I willcarry you.''Happy thought!' says friend Fox.He takes bag and baggage, and, presto! is gone like a letter into thepost.And Drakestail is off again, all spruce and fresh, still singing:'Quack, quack, quack, when shall I have my money back?'He had not gone far when he met his lady friend Ladder, leaning on herwall.'Good morning, my duckling,' says the lady friend, 'whither away sobold?''I am going to the King for what he owes me.''Oh! take me with thee!'Drakestail said to himself: 'One can't have too many friends.' ... 'Iwill,' says he, 'but with your wooden legs you will soon be tired. Makeyourself quite small, get into my throat go into my gizzard and I willcarry you.''Happy thought!' says my friend Ladder, and nimble, bag and baggage,goes to keep company with friend Fox.And 'Quack, quack, quack.' Drakestail is off again, singing and spruceas before. A little farther he meets his sweetheart, my friend River,wandering quietly in the sunshine.'Thou, my cherub,' says she, 'whither so lonesome, with arching tail, onthis muddy road?''I am going to the King, you know, for what he owes me.''Oh! take me with thee!'Drakestail said to himself: 'We can't be too many friends.'... 'I will,'says he, 'but you who sleep while you walk will soon be tired. Makeyourself quite small, get into my throat go into my gizzard and I willcarry you.''Ah! happy thought!' says my friend River.She takes bag and baggage, and glou, glou, glou, she takes her placebetween friend Fox and my friend Ladder.And 'Quack, quack, quack.' Drakestail is off again singing.A little farther on he meets comrade Wasp's nest, manoeuvring his wasps.'Well, good morning, friend Drakestail,' said comrade Wasp's nest,'where are we bound for so spruce and fresh?''I am going to the King for what he owes me.''Oh! take me with thee!'Drakestail said to himself, 'One can't have too many friends.'... 'Iwill,' says he, 'but with your battalion to drag along, you will soon betired. Make yourself quite small, go into my throat get into my gizzardand I will carry you.''By Jove I that's a good idea!' says comrade Wasp's nest.And left file! he takes the same road to join the others with allhis party. There was not much more room, but by closing up a bit theymanaged.... And Drakestail is off again singing.He arrived thus at the capital, and threaded his way straight up theHigh Street, still running and singing 'Quack, quack, quack, when shallI get my money back?' to the great astonishment of the good folks, tillhe came to the King's palace.He strikes with the knocker: 'Toc! toc!''Who is there?' asks the porter, putting his head out of the wicket.''Tis I, Drakestail. I wish to speak to the King.''Speak to the King!... That's easily said. The King is dining, and willnot be disturbed.''Tell him that it is I, and I have come he well knows why.'The porter shuts his wicket and goes up to say it to the King, who wasjust sitting down to dinner with a napkin round his neck, and all hisministers.'Good, good!' said the King laughing. 'I know what it is! Make him comein, and put him with the turkeys and chickens.'The porter descends.'Have the goodness to enter.''Good!' says Drakestail to himself, 'I shall now see how they eat atcourt.''This way, this way,' says the porter. 'One step further.... There,there you are.''How? what? in the poultry yard?'Fancy how vexed Drakestail was!'Ah! so that's it,' says he. 'Wait! I will compel you to receive me.Quack, quack, quack, when shall I get my money back?' But turkeys andchickens are creatures who don't like people that are not as themselves.When they saw the new comer and how he was made, and when they heard himcrying too, they began to look black at him.'What is it? what does he want?'Finally they rushed at him all together, to overwhelm him with pecks.'I am lost!' said Drakestail to himself, when by good luck he remembershis comrade friend Fox, and he cries:'Reynard, Reynard, come out of your earth, Or Drakestail's life is oflittle worth.'Then friend Fox, who was only waiting for these words, hastens out,throws himself on the wicked fowls, and quick! quack! he tears them topieces. so much so that at the end of five minutes there was not oneleft alive. And Drakestail, quite content, began to sing again, 'Quack,quack, quack, when shall I get my money back?'When the King who was still at table heard this refrain, and the poultrywoman came to tell him what had been going on in the yard, he wasterribly annoyed.He ordered them to throw this tail of a drake into the well, to make anend of him.And it was done as he commanded. Drakestail was in despair of gettinghimself out of such a deep hole, when he remembered his lady friend, theLadder.'Ladder, Ladder, come out of thy hold,Or Drakestail's days will soon be told.'My friend Ladder, who was only waiting for these words, hastens out,leans her two arms on the edge of the well, then Drakestail climbsnimbly on her back, and hop! he is in the yard, where he begins to singlouder than ever.When the King, who was still at table and laughing at the good trick hehad played his creditor, heard him again reclaiming his money, he becamelivid with rage.He commanded that the furnace should be heated, and this tail of a drakethrown into it, because he must be a sorcerer.The furnace was soon hot, but this time Drakestail was not so afraid. hecounted on his sweetheart, my friend River.'River, River, outward flow,Or to death Drakestail must go.'My friend River hastens out, and errouf! throws herself into thefurnace, which she floods, with all the people who had lighted it. afterwhich she flowed growling into the hall of the palace to the height ofmore than four feet.And Drakestail, quite content, begins to swim, singing deafeningly,'Quack, quack, quack, when shall I get my money back?'The King was still at table, and thought himself quite sure of his game.but when he heard Drakestail singing again, and when they told him allthat had passed, he became furious and got up from table brandishing hisfists.'Bring him here, and I'll cut his throat! bring him here quick!' criedhe.And quickly two footmen ran to fetch Drakestail.'At last,' said the poor chap, going up the great stairs, 'they havedecided to receive me.'Imagine his terror when on entering he sees the King as red as a turkeycock, and all his ministers attending him standing sword in hand. Hethought this time it was all up with him. Happily, he remembered thatthere was still one remaining friend, and he cried with dying accents:'Wasp's nest, Wasp's nest, make a sally,Or Drakestail nevermore may rally.'Hereupon the scene changes.'Bs, bs, bayonet them! 'The brave Wasp's nest rushes out with all hiswasps. They threw themselves on the infuriated King and his ministers,and stung them so fiercely in the face that they lost their heads, andnot knowing where to hide themselves they all jumped pell mell from thewindow and broke their necks on the pavement.Behold Drakestail much astonished, all alone in the big saloon andmaster of the field. He could not get over it.Nevertheless, he remembered shortly what he had come for to the palace,and improving the occasion, he set to work to hunt for his dear money.But in vain he rummaged in all the drawers. he found nothing. all hadbeen spent.And ferreting thus from room to room he came at last to the one with thethrone in it, and feeling fatigued, he sat himself down on it to thinkover his adventure. In the meanwhile the people had found their King andhis ministers with their feet in the air on the pavement, and theyhad gone into the palace to know how it had occurred. On entering thethrone room, when the crowd saw that there was already someone on theroyal seat, they broke out in cries of surprise and joy:'The King is dead, long live the King!Heaven has sent us down this thing.'Drakestail, who was no longer surprised at anything, received theacclamations of the people as if he had never done anything else all hislife.A few of them certainly murmured that a Drakestail would make a fineKing. those who knew him replied that a knowing Drakestail was a moreworthy King than a spendthrift like him who was lying on the pavement.In short, they ran and took the crown off the head of the deceased, andplaced it on that of Drakestail, whom it fitted like wax.Thus he became King.'And now,' said he after the ceremony, 'ladies and gentlemen, let's goto supper. I am so hungry!' (15)(15) Contes of Ch. Marelles.