Emperor Heinrich the Fowler liked to stay at Goslar, which he often did,andmany stories are told about him there. Above all they tell about howmarvelously beautiful his wife was, and how he could not be consoled whenshedied.After his grief had subsided somewhat, he revealed to his own daughter,who wasalmost more beautiful than her mother, his sinful desire to marry her.Sheappropriately resisted him, finally convincing him to first to travel tothecourts of all the kings and counts in Europe in search of a spouse morebeautiful than she. He traveled far and wide, but finally returned withthenews that a more beautiful woman could not be found anywhere. But stillsheresisted his pleas and his advances.Finally he set the condition that he would desist from his demands if shecouldcreate a blanket upon which all of the earth's animals could be seen. Shewentinto a small chapel in the upper city and fervently prayed to God, but shefoundno comfort in her prayers, so finally in despair she called upon the deviltocome and help her. He appeared immediately, saying that he would bringtheblanket to her, if she could remain awake in the chapel for three days andthreenights.She brought her little dog into the chapel with her and spent the timeceaselessly praying. However, during the third night, just as morning wasbreaking, sleep almost overcame her. At that moment the devil approached,andher little dog, seeing him, pulled at her skirt so vigorously that shejumpedup.The devil angrily dropped the blanket, furiously threw the little dogagainstchurch wall, and disappeared. She took the blanket to her father, whothen wasovercome by such powerful pain that he lost all will to live. Hebewitchedhimself into the Sudemer Mountain near Goslar, whose watchtower isvisiblethroughout the region. There he sits until the present day, and willreturnonly when Goslar finds itself in great need, or when the Day of Judgmentarrives.Others say that the emperor is sitting in Rammel Mountain, and that beforehisdeath he had three stones mortared into the Goslar's city wall, sayingthat hewould return when these stones fall out. But no one knows which stonestheyare.