and play in the Giant's garden.It was a large lovely garden, with soft green grass. Here and there overthe grass stood beautiful flowers like stars, and there were twelvepeach trees that in the spring time broke out into delicate blossoms ofpink and pearl, and in the autumn bore rich fruit. The birds sat on thetrees and sang so sweetly that the children used to stop their games inorder to listen to them. "How happy we are here!" they cried to eachother.One day the Giant came back. He had been to visit his friend the Cornishogre, and had stayed with him for seven years. After the seven yearswere over he had said all that he had to say, for his conversation waslimited, and he determined to return to his own castle. When he arrivedhe saw the children playing in the garden."What are you doing here?" he cried in a very gruff voice, and thechildren ran away."My own garden is my own garden," said the Giant. "any one can understandthat, and I will allow nobody to play in it but myself." So he built ahigh wall all round it, and put up a notice board.TRESPASSERSWILL BEPROSECUTEDHe was a very selfish Giant.The poor children had now nowhere to play. They tried to play on theroad, but the road was very dusty and full of hard stones, and they didnot like it. They used to wander round the high wall when their lessonswere over, and talk about the beautiful garden inside. "How happy wewere there," they said to each other.Then the Spring came, and all over the country there were little blossomsand little birds. Only in the garden of the Selfish Giant it was stillwinter. The birds did not care to sing in it as there were no children,and the trees forgot to blossom. Once a beautiful flower put its headout from the grass, but when it saw the notice board it was so sorry forthe children that it slipped back into the ground again, and went off tosleep. The only people who were pleased were the Snow and the Frost."Spring has forgotten this garden," they cried, "so we will live here allthe year round." The Snow covered up the grass with her great whitecloak, and the Frost painted all the trees silver. Then they invited theNorth Wind to stay with them, and he came. He was wrapped in furs, andhe roared all day about the garden, and blew the chimney pots down."This is a delightful spot," he said, "we must ask the Hail on a visit."So the Hail came. Every day for three hours he rattled on the roof ofthe castle till he broke most of the slates, and then he ran round andround the garden as fast as he could go. He was dressed in grey, and hisbreath was like ice."I cannot understand why the Spring is so late in coming," said theSelfish Giant, as he sat at the window and looked out at his cold whitegarden. "I hope there will be a change in the weather."But the Spring never came, nor the Summer. The Autumn gave golden fruitto every garden, but to the Giant's garden she gave none. "He is tooselfish," she said. So it was always Winter there, and the North Wind,and the Hail, and the Frost, and the Snow danced about through the trees.One morning the Giant was lying awake in bed when he heard some lovelymusic. It sounded so sweet to his ears that he thought it must be theKing's musicians passing by. It was really only a little linnet singingoutside his window, but it was so long since he had heard a bird sing inhis garden that it seemed to him to be the most beautiful music in theworld. Then the Hail stopped dancing over his head, and the North Windceased roaring, and a delicious perfume came to him through the opencasement. "I believe the Spring has come at last," said the Giant. andhe jumped out of bed and looked out.What did he see?He saw a most wonderful sight. Through a little hole in the wall thechildren had crept in, and they were sitting in the branches of thetrees. In every tree that he could see there was a little child. Andthe trees were so glad to have the children back again that they hadcovered themselves with blossoms, and were waving their arms gently abovethe children's heads. The birds were flying about and twittering withdelight, and the flowers were looking up through the green grass andlaughing. It was a lovely scene, only in one corner it was still winter.It was the farthest corner of the garden, and in it was standing a littleboy. He was so small that he could not reach up to the branches of thetree, and he was wandering all round it, crying bitterly. The poor treewas still quite covered with frost and snow, and the North Wind wasblowing and roaring above it. "Climb up! little boy," said the Tree, andit bent its branches down as low as it could. but the boy was too tiny.And the Giant's heart melted as he looked out. "How selfish I havebeen!" he said. "now I know why the Spring would not come here. I willput that poor little boy on the top of the tree, and then I will knockdown the wall, and my garden shall be the children's playground for everand ever." He was really very sorry for what he had done.So he crept downstairs and opened the front door quite softly, and wentout into the garden. But when the children saw him they were sofrightened that they all ran away, and the garden became winter again.Only the little boy did not run, for his eyes were so full of tears thathe did not see the Giant coming. And the Giant stole up behind him andtook him gently in his hand, and put him up into the tree. And the treebroke at once into blossom, and the birds came and sang on it, and thelittle boy stretched out his two arms and flung them round the Giant'sneck, and kissed him. And the other children, when they saw that theGiant was not wicked any longer, came running back, and with them camethe Spring. "It is your garden now, little children," said the Giant,and he took a great axe and knocked down the wall. And when the peoplewere going to market at twelve o'clock they found the Giant playing withthe children in the most beautiful garden they had ever seen.All day long they played, and in the evening they came to the Giant tobid him good bye."But where is your little companion?" he said: "the boy I put into thetree." The Giant loved him the best because he had kissed him."We don't know," answered the children. "he has gone away.""You must tell him to be sure and come here to morrow," said the Giant.But the children said that they did not know where he lived, and hadnever seen him before. and the Giant felt very sad.Every afternoon, when school was over, the children came and played withthe Giant. But the little boy whom the Giant loved was never seen again.The Giant was very kind to all the children, yet he longed for his firstlittle friend, and often spoke of him. "How I would like to see him!" heused to say.Years went over, and the Giant grew very old and feeble. He could notplay about any more, so he sat in a huge armchair, and watched thechildren at their games, and admired his garden. "I have many beautifulflowers," he said. "but the children are the most beautiful flowers ofall."One winter morning he looked out of his window as he was dressing. Hedid not hate the Winter now, for he knew that it was merely the Springasleep, and that the flowers were resting.Suddenly he rubbed his eyes in wonder, and looked and looked. Itcertainly was a marvellous sight. In the farthest corner of the gardenwas a tree quite covered with lovely white blossoms. Its branches wereall golden, and silver fruit hung down from them, and underneath it stoodthe little boy he had loved.Downstairs ran the Giant in great joy, and out into the garden. Hehastened across the grass, and came near to the child. And when he camequite close his face grew red with anger, and he said, "Who hath dared towound thee?" For on the palms of the child's hands were the prints oftwo nails, and the prints of two nails were on the little feet."Who hath dared to wound thee?" cried the Giant. "tell me, that I maytake my big sword and slay him.""Nay!" answered the child. "but these are the wounds of Love.""Who art thou?" said the Giant, and a strange awe fell on him, and heknelt before the little child.And the child smiled on the Giant, and said to him, "You let me play oncein your garden, to day you shall come with me to my garden, which isParadise."And when the children ran in that afternoon, they found the Giant lyingdead under the tree, all covered with white blossoms.