The Grimms' sentimental, legend like tale "The Burial Shirt" reflectsthe belief that excessive mourning would prevent a deceased person fromresting in peace:A mother had a little boy of seven years who was so attractiveand good natured that no one could look at him without liking him, and hewas dearer to her than anything else in the world. Now it happened that hesuddenly became ill, and God called him home. The mother could find nosolace, and she cried day and night. However, soon after his burial, thechild began to appear every night at those places where he had sat andplayed while still alive. When the mother cried, he cried as well, butwhen morning came he had disappeared. The mother did not cease crying, andone night he appeared with the white shirt in which he had been laid intohis coffin, and with the little wreath on his head, he sat down on the bedat her feet and said, "Oh, mother, please stop crying, or I will not beable to fall asleep in my coffin, because my burial shirt will not dry outfrom your tears that keep falling on it." This startled the mother, andshe stopped crying. The next night the child came once again. He had alittle light in his hand and said, "See, my shirt is almost dry, and Iwill be able to rest in my grave." Then the mother surrendered her griefto God and bore it with patience and peace, and the child did not comeagain, but slept in he little bed beneath the earth.Source: The BurialShirt (Grimm, no.109).That this belief was not limited to unnamed characters in admittedlyfictional tales is evidenced by the following account from northernEngland:An old woman still living (1854) in Piersebridge, who mournedwith inordinate grief for a length of time the loss of a favoritedaughter, asserts that she was visited by the spirit of her departedchild, and earnestly exhorted not to disturb her peaceful repose byunnecessary lamentations and repinings at the will of God. and from thattime she never grieved more. Events of this kind were common a centuryago.Source: The Denham Tracts , vol. 2, pp.58 59.For more tales of this type see TheDeath of a Child: Folktales about Excessive Mourning .