There was once a husband and wife who had but one child, a daughter.Now it happened that the wife fell ill and was at the point of death.Before dying she called her husband, and said to him, weeping, "I amdying. you are still young. if you ever wish to marry again, be mindful tochoose a wife whom my wedding ring fits. and if you cannot find a ladywhom it fits well, do not marry."Her husband promised that he would do so. When she was dead he took offher wedding ring and kept it until he desired to marry again. Then hesought for some one to please him. He went from one to another, but thering fitted no one. He tried so many but in vain. One day he thought ofcalling his daughter, and trying the ring on her to see whether it fittedher. The daughter said, "It is useless, dear father. you cannot marry me,because you are my father."He did not heed her, put the ring on her finger, and saw that it fittedher well, and wanted to marry his daughter nolens volens . She didnot oppose him, but consented. The day of the wedding, he asked her whatshe wanted. She said that she wished four silk dresses, the most beautifulthat could be seen. He, who was a gentleman, gratified her wish and tookher the four dresses, one handsomer than the other, and all the handsomestthat had ever been seen."Now, what else do you want?" said he."I want another dress, made of wood, so that I can conceal myself init." And at once he had this wooden dress made. She was well pleased. Shewaited until one day her husband was out of sight, put on the woodendress, and under it the four silk dresses, and went away to a certainriver not far off, and threw herself in it. Instead of sinking anddrowning, she floated, for the wooden dress kept her up.The water carried her a long way, when she saw on the bank a gentleman,and began to cry, "Who wants the fair Maria Wood?"That gentleman who saw her on the water, and whom she addressed, calledher and she came to the bank and saluted him."How is it that you are thus dressed in wood, and come floating on thewater without drowning?"She told him that she was a poor girl who had only that dress of wood,and that she wanted to go out to service."What can you do?""I can do all that is needed in a house, and if you would only take mefor a servant you would be satisfied."He took her to his house, where his mother was, and told her all thathad happened, saying, "If you, dear mother, will take her as a servant, wecan try her." In short, she took her and was pleased with this womandressed in wood.It happened that there were balls at that place which the best ladiesand gentlemen attended. The gentleman who had the servant dressed in woodprepared to go to the ball, and after he had departed, the servant said tohis mother, "Do me this kindness, mistress: let me go to the ball too, forI have never seen any dancing.""What, you wish to go to the ball so badly dressed that they woulddrive you away as soon as they saw you!" The servant was silent and whenthe mistress was in bed, dressed herself in one of her silk dresses andbecame the most beautiful woman that was ever seen. She went to the ball,and it seemed as if the sun had entered the room. all were dazzled. Shesat down near her master, who asked her to dance, and would dance with noone but her. She pleased him so much that he fell in love with her. Heasked her who she was and where she came from. She replied that she camefrom a distance, but told him nothing more.At a certain hour, without anyone perceiving it, she went out anddisappeared. She returned home and put on her wooden dress again. In themorning the master returned from the ball, and said to his mother, "Oh! ifyou had only seen what a beautiful lady there was at the ball! Sheappeared like the sun, she was so beautiful and well dressed. She sat downnear me, and would not dance with anyone but me."His mother then said, "Did you not ask her who she was and where shecame from?""She would only tell me that she came from a distance. but I thought Ishould die. I wish to go again this evening." The servant heard all thisdialogue, but kept silent, pretending that the matter did not concern her.In the evening he prepared himself again for the ball, and the servantsaid to him, "Master, yesterday evening I asked your mamma to let me, too,go to the ball, for I have never seen dancing, but she would not. will youhave the kindness to let me go this evening?""Be still, you ugly creature, the ball is no place for you!""Do me this favor," she said, weeping, "I will stand out of doors, orunder a bench, or in a corner so no one shall see me. but let me go!"He grew angry then, and took a stick and began to beat the poorservant. She wept and remained silent.After he had gone, she waited until his mother was in bed, and put on adress finer than the first, and so rich as to astonish, and away to theball! When she arrived all began to gaze at her, for they had never seenanything more beautiful. All the handsomest young men surrounded her andasked her to dance. but she would have nothing to do with anyone but hermaster. He again asked her who she was, and she said she would tell himlater.They danced and danced, and all at once she disappeared. Her master ranhere and there, asked one and another, but no one could tell him where shehad gone. He returned home and told his mother all that had passed. Shesaid to him, "Do you know what you must do? Take this diamond ring, andwhen she dances with you give it to her. and if she takes it, it is a signthat she loves you." She gave him the ring. The servant listened, saweverything, and was silent.In the evening the master prepared for the ball and the servant againasked him to take her, and again he beat her. He went to the ball, andafter midnight, as before, the beautiful lady returned more beautiful thanbefore, and as usual would dance only with her master. At the right momenthe took out the diamond ring, and asked her if she would accept it. Shetook it and thanked him, and he was happy and satisfied. Afterward heasked her again who she was and where from. She said that she was of thatcountry,That when they speak of going to a ballThey are beaten on the headand said no more. At the usual hour she stopped dancing and departed.He ran after her, but she went like the wind, and reached home without hisfinding out where she went. But he ran so in all directions, and was insuch suffering, that when he reached home he was obliged to go to bed moredead than alive. Then he fell ill and grew worse every day, so that allsaid he would die. He did nothing but ask his mother and everyone if theyknew anything of that lady, and that he would die if he did not see her.The servant heard everything. and one day, when he was very ill, what didshe think of? She waited until her mistress's eye was turned, and droppedthe diamond ring in the broth her master was to eat. No one saw her, andhis mother took him the broth. He began to eat it, when he felt somethinghard, saw something shine, and took it out. You can imagine how he lookedat it and recognized the diamond ring! They thought he would go mad. Heasked his mother if that was the ring and she swore that it was, and allhappy, she said that now he would see her again.Meanwhile the servant went to her room, took off her wooden dress, andput on one all of silk, so that she appeared a beauty, and went to theroom of the sick man. His mother saw her and began to cry, "Here she is.here she is!" She went in and saluted him, smiling, and he was so besidehimself that he became well at once. He asked her to tell him her story:who she was, where she came from, how she came, and how she knew that hewas ill.She replied, "I am the woman dressed in wood who was your servant. Itis not true that I was a poor girl, but I had that dress to conceal myselfin, for underneath it I was the same that I am now. I am a lady. andalthough you treated me so badly when I asked to go to the ball, I sawthat you loved me, and now I have come to save you from death." You canbelieve that they stayed to hear her story. They were married and havealways been happy and still are.