Dame Goody was a nurse that looked after sick people and minded babies.One night she was woke up at midnight, and when she went downstairs, shesaw a strange squinny eyed, little ugly old fellow, who asked her to cometo his wife who was too ill to mind her baby. Dame Goody didn't like thelook of the old fellow, but business is business. so she popped on herthings, and went down to him. And when she got down to him, he whisked herup on to a large coal black horse with fiery eyes, that stood at the door.and soon they were going at a rare pace, Dame Goody holding on to the oldfellow like grim death.They rode, and they rode, till at last they stopped before a cottage door.So they got down and went in and found the good woman abed with thechildren playing about. and the babe, a fine bouncing boy, beside her.Dame Goody took the babe, which was as fine a baby boy as you'd wish tosee. The mother, when she handed the baby to Dame Goody to mind, gave hera box of ointment, and told her to stroke the baby's eyes with it as soonas it opened them. After a while it began to open its eyes. Dame Goody sawthat it had squinny eyes just like its father. So she took the box ofointment and stroked its two eyelids with it. But she couldn't helpwondering what it was for, as she had never seen such a thing done before.So she looked to see if the others were looking, and, when they were notnoticing, she stroked her own right eyelid with the ointment.No sooner had she done so, than everything seemed changed about her. Thecottage became elegantly furnished. The mother in the bed was a beautifullady, dressed up in white silk. The little baby was still more beautifulthen before, and its clothes were made of a sort of silvery gauze. Itslittle brothers and sisters around the bed were flat nosed imps withpointed ears, who made faces at one another, and scratched their polls.Sometimes they would pull the sick lady's ears with their long and hairypaws. In fact, they were up to all kinds of mischief. and Dame Goody knewthat she had got into a house of pixies. But she said nothing to nobody,and as soon as the lady was well enough to mind the baby, she asked theold fellow to take her back home. So he came round to the door with thecoal black horse with eyes of fire, and off they went as fast as before,or perhaps a little faster, till they came to Dame Goody's cottage, wherethe squinny eyed old fellow lifted her down and left her, thanking hercivilly enough, and paying her more than she had ever been paid before forsuch service.Now next day happened to be market day, and as Dame Goody had been awayfrom home, she wanted many things in the house, and trudged off to getthem at the market. As she was buying the things she wanted, who shouldshe see but the squinny eyed old fellow who had taken her on thecoal black horse. And what do you think he was doing? Why he went aboutfrom stall to stall taking things from each, here some fruit, and theresome eggs, and so on. and no one seemed to take any notice.Now Dame Goody did not think it her business to interfere, but she thoughtshe ought not to let so good a customer pass without speaking. So she upsto him and bobs a curtsey and said, "Gooden, sir, I hopes as how your goodlady and the little one are as well as  "But she couldn't finish what she was a saying, for the funny old fellowstarted back in surprise, and he says to her, says he, "What! do you seeme today?""See you," says she, "why, of course I do, as plain as the sun in theskies, and what's more," says she, "I see you are busy, too, into thebargain.""Ah, you see too much." said he. "Now, pray, with which eye do you see allthis?""With the right eye to be sure," said she, as proud as can be to find himout."The ointment! The ointment!" cried the old pixy thief. "Take that formeddling with what don't concern you. You shall see me no more."And with that he struck her on the right eye, and she couldn't see him anymore. And, what was worse, she was blind on the right side from that hourtill the day of her death.