Once there lived a King who had no children for many years after hismarriage. At length heaven granted him a daughter of such remarkablebeauty that he could think of no name so appropriate for her as'Fairer than a Fairy.'It never occurred to the good natured monarch that such a name wascertain to call down the hatred and jealousy of the fairies in a body onthe child, but this was what happened. No sooner had they heard of thispresumptuous name than they resolved to gain possession of her who boreit, and either to torment her cruelly, or at least to conceal her fromthe eyes of all men.The eldest of their tribe was entrusted to carry out their revenge. ThisFairy was named Lagree. she was so old that she only had one eye and onetooth left, and even these poor remains she had to keep all night in astrengthening liquid. She was also so spiteful that she gladly devotedall her time to carrying out all the mean or ill natured tricks of thewhole body of fairies.With her large experience, added to her native spite, she found butlittle difficulty in carrying off Fairer than a Fairy. The poor child,who was only seven years old, nearly died of fear on finding herselfin the power of this hideous creature. However, when after an hour'sjourney underground she found herself in a splendid palace with lovelygardens, she felt a little reassured, and was further cheered when shediscovered that her pet cat and dog had followed her.The old Fairy led her to a pretty room which she said should be hers, atthe same time giving her the strictest orders never to let out the firewhich was burning brightly in the grate. She then gave two glass bottlesinto the Princess's charge, desiring her to take the greatest care ofthem, and having enforced her orders with the most awful threats in caseof disobedience, she vanished, leaving the little girl at liberty toexplore the palace and grounds and a good deal relieved at having onlytwo apparently easy tasks set her.Several years passed, during which time the Princess grew accustomed toher lonely life, obeyed the Fairy's orders, and by degrees forgot allabout the court of the King her father.One day, whilst passing near a fountain in the garden, she noticedthat the sun's rays fell on the water in such a manner as to producea brilliant rainbow. She stood still to admire it, when, to her greatsurprise, she heard a voice addressing her which seemed to come from thecentre of its rays. The voice was that of a young man, and its sweetnessof tone and the agreeable things it uttered, led one to infer that itsowner must be equally charming. but this had to be a mere matter offancy, for no one was visible.The beautiful Rainbow informed Fairer than a Fairy that he was young,the son of a powerful king, and that the Fairy, Lagree, who owed hisparents a grudge, had revenged herself by depriving him of his naturalshape for some years. that she had imprisoned him in the palace, wherehe had found his confinement hard to bear for some time, but now, heowned, he no longer sighed for freedom since he had seen and learned tolove Fairer than a Fairy.He added many other tender speeches to this declaration, and thePrincess, to whom such remarks were a new experience, could not helpfeeling pleased and touched by his attentions.The Prince could only appear or speak under the form of a Rainbow, andit was therefore necessary that the sun should shine on water so as toenable the rays to form themselves.Fairer than a Fairy lost no moment in which she could meet her lover,and they enjoyed many long and interesting interviews. One day, however,their conversation became so absorbing and time passed so quickly thatthe Princess forgot to attend to the fire, and it went out. Lagree, onher return, soon found out the neglect, and seemed only too pleased tohave the opportunity of showing her spite to her lovely prisoner. Sheordered Fairer than a Fairy to start next day at dawn to ask Locrinosfor fire with which to relight the one she had allowed to go out.Now this Locrinos was a cruel monster who devoured everyone he cameacross, and especially enjoyed a chance of catching and eating any younggirls. Our heroine obeyed with great sweetness, and without having beenable to take leave of her lover she set off to go to Locrinos as tocertain death. As she was crossing a wood a bird sang to her to pick upa shining pebble which she would find in a fountain close by, and to useit when needed. She took the bird's advice, and in due time arrived atthe house of Locrinos. Luckily she only found his wife at home, who wasmuch struck by the Princess's youth and beauty and sweet gentle manners,and still further impressed by the present of the shining pebble.She readily let Fairer than a Fairy have the fire, and in return forthe stone she gave her another, which, she said, might prove useful someday. Then she sent her away without doing her any harm.Lagree was as much surprised as displeased at the happy result of thisexpedition, and Fairer than a Fairy waited anxiously for an opportunityof meeting Prince Rainbow and telling him her adventures. She found,however, that he had already been told all about them by a Fairy whoprotected him, and to whom he was related.The dread of fresh dangers to his beloved Princess made him devisesome more convenient way of meeting than by the garden fountain, andFairer than a Fairy carried out his plan daily with entire success.Every morning she placed a large basin full of water on her window sill,and as soon as the sun's rays fell on the water the Rainbow appearedas clearly as it had ever done in the fountain. By this means they wereable to meet without losing sight of the fire or of the two bottles inwhich the old Fairy kept her eye and her tooth at night, and for sometime the lovers enjoyed every hour of sunshine together.One day Prince Rainbow appeared in the depths of woe. He had just heardthat he was to be banished from this lovely spot, but he had no ideawhere he was to go. The poor young couple were in despair, and onlyparted with the last ray of sunshine, and in hopes of meeting nextmorning. Alas! next day was dark and gloomy, and it was only late in theafternoon that the sun broke through the clouds for a few minutes.Fairer than a Fairy eagerly ran to the window, but in her haste sheupset the basin, and spilt all the water with which she had carefullyfilled it overnight. No other water was at hand except that in the twobottles. It was the only chance of seeing her lover before they wereseparated, and she did not hesitate to break the bottle and pour theircontents into the basin, when the Rainbow appeared at once. Theirfarewells were full of tenderness. the Prince made the most ardent andsincere protestations, and promised to neglect nothing which might helpto deliver his dear Fairer than a Fairy from her captivity, and imploredher to consent to their marriage as soon as they should both be free.The Princess, on her side, vowed to have no other husband, and declaredherself willing to brave death itself in order to rejoin him.They were not allowed much time for their adieus. the Rainbow vanished,and the Princess, resolved to run all risks, started off at once, takingnothing with her but her dog, her cat, a sprig of myrtle, and the stonewhich the wife of Locrinos gave her.When Lagree became aware of her prisoner's flight she was furious, andset off at full speed in pursuit. She overtook her just as the poorgirl, overcome by fatigue, had lain down to rest in a cave which thestone had formed itself into to shelter her. The little dog who waswatching her mistress promptly flew at Lagree and bit her so severelythat she stumbled against a corner of the cave and broke off her onlytooth. Before she had recovered from the pain and rage this caused her,the Princess had time to escape, and was some way on her road. Fear gaveher strength for some time, but at last she could go no further, andsank down to rest. As she did so, the sprig of myrtle she carriedtouched the ground, and immediately a green and shady bower sprang upround her, in which she hoped to sleep in peace.But Lagree had not given up her pursuit, and arrived just asFairer than a Fairy had fallen fast asleep. This time she made sure ofcatching her victim, but the cat spied her out, and, springing from oneof the boughs of the arbour she flew at Lagree's face and tore out heronly eye, thus delivering the Princess for ever from her persecutor.One might have thought that all would now be well, but no sooner hadLagree been put to fight than our heroine was overwhelmed with hungerand thirst. She felt as though she should certainly expire, and it waswith some difficulty that she dragged herself as far as a pretty littlegreen and white house, which stood at no great distance. Here she wasreceived by a beautiful lady dressed in green and white to match thehouse, which apparently belonged to her, and of which she seemed theonly inhabitant.She greeted the fainting Princess most kindly, gave her an excellentsupper, and after a long night's rest in a delightful bed told her thatafter many troubles she should finally attain her desire.As the green and white lady took leave of the Princess she gave her anut, desiring her only to open it in the most urgent need.After a long and tiring journey Fairer than a Fairy was once morereceived in a house, and by a lady exactly like the one she had quitted.Here again she received a present with the same injunctions, but insteadof a nut this lady gave her a golden pomegranate. The mournful Princesshad to continue her weary way, and after many troubles and hardships sheagain found rest and shelter in a third house exactly similar to the twoothers.These houses belonged to three sisters, all endowed with fairy gifts,and all so alike in mind and person that they wished their houses andgarments to be equally alike. Their occupation consisted in helpingthose in misfortune, and they were as gentle and benevolent as Lagreehad been cruel and spiteful.The third Fairy comforted the poor traveller, begged her not to loseheart, and assured her that her troubles should be rewarded.She accompanied her advice by the gift of a crystal smelling bottle,with strict orders only to open it in case of urgent need.Fairer than a Fairy thanked her warmly, and resumed her way cheered bypleasant thoughts.After a time her road led through a wood, full of soft airs and sweetodours, and before she had gone a hundred yards she saw a wonderfulsilver Castle suspended by strong silver chains to four of thelargest trees. It was so perfectly hung that a gentle breeze rocked itsufficiently to send you pleasantly to sleep.Fairer than a Fairy felt a strong desire to enter this Castle, butbesides being hung a little above the ground there seemed to be neitherdoors nor windows. She had no doubt (though really I cannot think why)that the moment had come in which to use the nut which had been givenher. She opened it, and out came a diminutive hall porter at whose belthung a tiny chain, at the end of which was a golden key half as long asthe smallest pin you ever saw.The Princess climbed up one of the silver chains, holding in her handthe little porter who, in spite of his minute size, opened a secret doorwith his golden key and let her in. She entered a magnificent room whichappeared to occupy the entire Castle, and which was lighted by gold andjewelled stars in the ceiling. In the midst of this room stood a couch,draped with curtains of all the colours of the rainbow, and suspended bygolden cords so that it swayed with the Castle in a manner which rockedits occupant delightfully to sleep.On this elegant couch lay Prince Rainbow, looking more beautiful thanever, and sunk in profound slumber, in which he had been held ever sincehis disappearance.Fairy than a Fairy, who now saw him for the first time in his realshape, hardly dared to gaze at him, fearing lest his appearance mightnot be in keeping with the voice and language which had won her heart.At the same time she could not help feeling rather hurt at the apparentindifference with which she was received.She related all the dangers and difficulties she had gone through, andthough she repeated the story twenty times in a loud clear voice, thePrince slept on and took no heed. She then had recourse to the goldenpomegranate, and on opening it found that all the seeds were as manylittle violins which flew up in the vaulted roof and at once beganplaying melodiously.The Prince was not completely roused, but he opened his eyes a littleand looked all the handsomer.Impatient at not being recognised, Fairer than a Fairy now drew out herthird present, and on opening the crystal scent bottle a little syrenflew out, who silenced the violins and then sang close to the Prince'sear the story of all his lady love had suffered in her search for him.She added some gentle reproaches to her tale, but before she had gotfar he was wide awake, and transported with joy threw himself at thePrincess's feet. At the same moment the walls of the room expanded andopened out, revealing a golden throne covered with jewels. A magnificentCourt now began to assemble, and at the same time several elegantcarriages filled with ladies in magnificent dresses drove up. In thefirst and most splendid of these carriages sat Prince Rainbow's mother.She fondly embraced her son, after which she informed him that hisfather had been dead for some years, that the anger of the Fairies wasat length appeased, and that he might return in peace to reign over hispeople, who were longing for his presence.The Court received the new King with joyful acclamations which wouldhave delighted him at any other time, but all his thoughts were full ofFairer than a Fairy. He was just about to present her to his mother andthe Court, feeling sure that her charms would win all hearts, when thethree green and white sisters appeared.They declared the secret of Fairy than a Fairy's royal birth, and theQueen taking the two lovers in her carriage set off with them for thecapital of the kingdom.Here they were received with tumultuous joy. The wedding was celebratedwithout delay, and succeeding years diminished neither the virtues,beauty, nor the mutual affection of King Rainbow and his Queen,Fairer than a Fairy.