Once upon a time there lived an old King, who fell very sick, andthought he was lying upon his death bed. so he said, "Let faithful Johncome to me." This faithful John was his affectionate servant, and was socalled because he had been true to him all his lifetime. As soon as Johncame to the bedside, the King said, "My faithful John, I feel that myend approaches, and I have no other care than about my son, who is stillso young that he cannot always guide himself aright. If you do notpromise to instruct him in everything he ought to know, and to be hisguardian, I cannot close my eyes in peace." Then John answered, "I willnever leave him. I will always serve him truly, even if it costs me mylife." So the old King was comforted, and said, "Now I can die in peace.After my death you must show him all the chambers, halls, and vaults inthe castle, and all the treasures which are in them. but the last roomin the long corridor you must not show him, for in it hangs the portraitof the daughter of the King of the Golden Palace. if he sees herpicture, he will conceive a great love for her, and will fall down in aswoon, and on her account undergo great perils, therefore you must keephim away." The faithful John pressed his master's hand again in token ofassent, and soon after the King laid his head upon the pillow andexpired.After the old King had been borne to his grave, the faithful Johnrelated to the young King all that his father had said upon hisdeath bed, and declared, "All this I will certainly fulfil. I will be astrue to you as I was to him, if it costs me my life." When the time ofmourning was passed, John said to the young King, "It is now time foryou to see your inheritance. I will show you your paternal castle." Sohe led the King all over it, upstairs and downstairs, and showed him allthe riches, and all the splendid chambers. only one room he did notopen, containing the perilous portrait, which was so placed that one sawit directly the door was opened, and, moreover, it was so beautifullypainted that one thought it breathed and moved. nothing in all the worldcould be more lifelike or more beautiful. The young King remarked,however, that the faithful John always passed by one door, so he asked,"Why do you not open that one?" "There is something in it," he replied,"which will frighten you."But the King said, "I have seen all the rest of the castle, and I willknow what is in there," and he went and tried to open the door by force.The faithful John pulled him back, and said, "I promised your fatherbefore he died that you should not see the contents of that room. itwould bring great misfortunes both upon you and me.""Oh, no," replied the young King, "if I do not go in it will be mycertain ruin. I should have no peace night nor day until I had seen itwith my own eyes. Now I will not stir from the place till you unlock thedoor."Then the faithful John saw that it was of no use talking. so, with aheavy heart and many sighs, he picked the key out of the great bunch.When he had opened the door, he went in first, and thought he wouldcover up the picture, that the King should not see it. but it was of nouse, for the King stepped upon tiptoes and looked over his shoulder. andas soon as he saw the portrait of the maiden, which was so beautiful andglittered with precious stones, he fell down on the ground insensible.The faithful John lifted him up and carried him to his bed, and thoughtwith great concern, "Mercy on us! the misfortune has happened. what willcome of it?" and he gave the young King wine until he came to himself.The first words he spoke were, "Who does that beautiful picturerepresent?" "That is the daughter of the King of the Golden Palace," wasthe reply."Then," said the King, "my love for her is so great that if all theleaves on the trees had tongues, they should not gainsay it. my life isset upon the search for her. You are my faithful John, you mustaccompany me."The trusty servant deliberated for a long while how to set about thisbusiness, for it was very difficult to get into the presence of theKing's daughter. At last he bethought himself of a way, and said to theKing, "Everything which she has around her is of gold chairs, tables,dishes, bowls, and all the household utensils. Among your treasures arefive tons of gold. let one of the goldsmiths of your kingdom manufacturevessels and utensils of all kinds therefrom all kinds of birds, andwild and wonderful beasts, such as will please her, then we will travelwith these, and try our luck." Then the King summoned all hisgoldsmiths, who worked day and night until many very beautiful thingswere ready. When all had been placed on board a ship, the faithful Johnput on merchant's clothes, and the King likewise, so that they mighttravel quite unknown. Then they sailed over the wide sea, and sailedaway until they came to the city where dwelt the daughter of the King ofthe Golden Palace.The faithful John told the King to remain in the ship, and wait for him."Perhaps," said he, "I shall bring the King's daughter with me.therefore take care that all is in order, and set out the golden vesselsand adorn the whole ship." Thereupon John placed in a napkin some of thegolden cups, stepped upon land, and went straight to the King's palace.When he came into the castle yard, a beautiful maid stood by the brook,who had two golden pails in her hand, drawing water. and when she hadfilled them and had turned round, she saw a strange man, and asked whohe was. Then John answered, "I am a merchant". and opening his napkin heshowed her its contents. Then she exclaimed, "Oh, what beautiful goldenthings!" and, setting the pails down, she looked at the cups one afteranother, and said, "The King's daughter must see these. she is sopleased with anything made of gold that she will buy all these." Andtaking him by the hand, she led him in. for she was the lady's maid.When the King's daughter saw the golden cups, she was much pleased, andsaid, "They are so finely worked that I will purchase them all." But thefaithful John replied, "I am only the servant of a rich merchant. what Ihave here is nothing in comparison to those which my master has in hisship, than which nothing more delicate or costly has ever been worked ingold." Then the King's daughter wished to have them all brought. but hesaid, "It would take many days, and so great is the quantity that yourpalace has not halls enough in it to place them around." Then hercuriosity and desire were still more excited, and at last she said,"Take me to the ship. I will go myself and look at your master'streasure."The faithful John conducted her to the ship with great joy, and theKing, when he beheld her, saw that her beauty was still greater than thepicture had represented, and thought nothing else but that his heartwould jump out of his mouth. Presently she stepped on board, and theKing conducted her below. but the faithful John remained on deck by thesteersman, and told him to unmoor the ship and put on all the sail hecould, that it might fly as a bird through the air. Meanwhile the Kingshowed the Princess all the golden treasures the dishes, cups, bowls,the birds, the wild and wonderful beasts. Many hours passed away whileshe looked at everything, and in her joy she did not remark that theship sailed on and on. As soon as she had looked at the last, andthanked the merchant, she wished to depart. But when she came on deck,she perceived that they were upon the high sea, far from the shore, andwere hastening on with all sail. "Ah," she exclaimed in affright, "I ambetrayed. I am carried off and taken away in the power of a strangemerchant. I would rather die!"But the King, taking her by the hand, said, "I am not a merchant, but aking, thine equal in birth. It is true that I have carried thee off. butthat is because of my overwhelming love for thee. Dost thou know thatwhen I first saw the portrait of thy beauteous face I fell down in aswoon before it?" When the King's daughter heard these words, she wasreassured, and her heart was inclined toward him, so that she willinglybecame his bride. While they thus went on their voyage on the high sea,it happened that the faithful John, as he sat on the deck of the ship,playing music, saw three crows in the air, who came flying toward them.He stopped playing, and listened to what they were saying to each other,for he understood them perfectly. The first one exclaimed, "There he is,carrying home the daughter of the King of the Golden Palace." "But he isnot home yet," replied the second. "But he has her," said the third."she is sitting by him in the ship." Then the first began again, andexclaimed, "What matters that? When they go on shore a fox colored horsewill spring toward them, on which he will mount. and as soon as he is onit, it will jump up with him into the air, so that he will never againsee his bride." The second one asked, "Is there no escape?" "Oh, yes, ifanother mounts behind quickly, and takes out the firearms which are inthe holster, and with them shoots the horse dead, then the young Kingwill be saved. But who knows that? And if any one does know it, andtells him, such a one will be turned to stone from the toe to the knee."Then the second spoke again, "I know still more: if the horse should bekilled, the young King will not then retain his bride. for when theycome into the castle a beautiful bridal shirt will lie there upon adish, and seem to be woven of gold and silver, but it is nothing butsulphur and pitch, and if he puts it on it will burn him to his marrowand bones." Then the third Crow asked, "Is there no escape?" "Oh, yes,"answered the second, "if some one takes up the shirt with his glove on,and throws it into the fire, so that it is burnt, the young King will besaved. But what does that signify? Whoever knows it, and tells him, willbe turned to stone from his knee to his heart." Then the third Crowspoke: "I know still more: even if the bridal shirt be consumed, stillthe young King will not retain his bride. For if, after the wedding, adance is held, while the young Queen dances she will suddenly turn pale,and fall down as if dead. and if some one does not raise her up, andtake three drops of blood from her right breast and throw them away, shewill die. But whoever knows that, and tells it, will have his whole bodyturned to stone, from the crown of his head to the toes of his feet."After the crows had thus talked with one another, they flew away, andthe trusty John, who had perfectly understood all they had said, wasfrom that time very quiet and sad. for if he concealed from his masterwhat he had heard, misfortune would happen to him, and if he told himall he must give up his own life. But at last he thought, "I will savemy master, even if I destroy myself."As soon as they came on shore, it happened just as the Crow hadforetold, and an immense fox red horse sprang up. "Capital!" said theKing, "this shall carry me to my castle," and he tried to mount. but thefaithful John came straight up, and swinging himself quickly on, drewthe firearms out of the holster and shot the horse dead. Then the otherservants of the King, who were not on good terms with the faithful John,exclaimed, "How shameful to kill the beautiful creature, which mighthave borne the King to the castle!" But the King replied, "Be silent,and let him go. he is my very faithful John who knows the good he mayhave done?" Now they went into the castle, and there stood a dish in thehall, and the splendid bridal shirt lay in it, and seemed nothing elsethan gold and silver. The young King went up to it and wished to take itup, but the faithful John pushed him away, and taking it up with hisgloves on, bore it quickly to the fire and let it burn. The otherservants thereupon began to murmur, saying, "See, now he is burning theKing's bridal shirt!" But the young King replied, "Who knows what goodhe has done? Let him alone he is my faithful John."Soon after, the wedding was celebrated, and a grand ball was given, andthe bride began to dance. So the faithful John paid great attention, andwatched her countenance. all at once she grew pale, and fell as if deadto the ground. Then he sprang up hastily, raised her up and bore her toa chamber, where he laid her down, kneeled beside her, and drawing thethree drops of blood out of her right breast, threw them away. As soonas she breathed again, she raised herself up. but the young King hadwitnessed everything, and not knowing why the faithful John had donethis was very angry, and called out, "Throw him into prison!" The nextmorning the trusty John was brought up for trial, and led to thegallows. and as he stood upon them, and was about to be executed, hesaid, "Every one condemned to die may once before his death speak. ShallI also have that privilege?" "Yes," answered the King, "it shall begranted you." Then the faithful John replied, "I have been unrighteouslyjudged, and have always been true to you". and he narrated theconversation of the crows which he heard at sea. and how, in order tosave his master, he was obliged to do all he had done. Then the Kingcried out, "Oh, my most trusty John, pardon, pardon. lead him away!" Butthe trusty John had fallen down at the last word and was turned intostone.At this event both the King and the Queen were in great grief, and theKing thought, "Ah, how wickedly have I rewarded his great fidelity!" andhe had the stone statue raised up and placed in his sleeping chamber,near his bed. and as often as he looked at it, he wept and said, "Ah,could I bring you back to life again, my faithful John!"After some time had passed, the Queen bore twins, two little sons, whowere her great joy. Once, when the Queen was in church, and the twochildren at home playing by their father's side, he looked up at thestone statue full of sorrow, and exclaimed with a sigh, "Ah, could Irestore you to life, my faithful John!" At these words the statue beganto speak, saying, "Yes, you can make me alive again, if you will bestowon me that which is dearest to you." The King replied, "All that I havein the world I will give up for you." The statue spake again: "If you,with your own hand, cut off the heads of both your children, andsprinkle me with their blood, I shall be brought to life again." TheKing was terrified when he heard that he must himself kill his two dearchildren. but he remembered his servant's great fidelity, and how thefaithful John had died for him, and drawing his sword he cut off theheads of both his children with his own hand. And as soon as he hadsprinkled the statue with blood, life came back to it, and the trustyJohn stood again alive and well before him, and said, "Your faith shallnot go unrewarded". and taking the heads of the two children he set themon again, and anointed their wounds with their blood, and thereupon theyhealed again in a moment, and the children sprang away and played as ifnothing had happened.Now the King was full of happiness, and as soon as he saw the Queencoming, he hid the faithful John and both the children in a greatcloset. As soon as she came in he said to her, "Have you prayed in thechurch?" "Yes," she answered. "but I thought continually of the faithfulJohn, who has come to such misfortune through us." Then he replied, "Mydear wife, we can restore his life again to him, but it will cost usboth our little sons, whom we must sacrifice." The Queen became pale andwas terrified at heart, but she said, "We are guilty of his life onaccount of his great fidelity." Then he was very glad that she thoughtas he did, and going up to the closet, he unlocked it, brought out thechildren and the faithful John, saying, "God be praised! he is saved,and we have still our little sons". and then he told her all thathappened. Afterward they lived happily together to the end of theirdays.