THERE was once upon a time a man and a woman who had an only son, andhe was called Jack. The woman thought that it was his duty to go out toservice, and told her husband that he was to take him somewhere.'You must get him such a good place that he will become master of allmasters,' she said, and then she put some food and a roll of tobaccointo a bag for them.Well, they went to a great many masters, but all said that they couldmake the lad as good as they were themselves, but better than that theycould not make him. When the man came home to the old woman with thisanswer, she said, 'I shall be equally well pleased whatever you do withhim. but this I do say, that you are to have him made a master over allmasters.' Then she once more put some food and a roll of tobacco intothe bag, and the man and his son had to set out again.When they had walked some distance they got upon the ice, and there theymet a man in a carriage who was driving a black horse.'Where are you going?' he said.'I have to go and get my son apprenticed to someone who will be able toteach him a trade, for my old woman comes of such well to do folk thatshe insists on his being taught to be master of all masters,' said theman.'We are not ill met, then,' said the man who was driving, 'for I amthe kind of man who can do that, and I am just looking out for such anapprentice. Get up behind with you,' he said to the boy, and off thehorse went with them straight up into the air.'No, no, wait a little!' screamed the father of the boy. 'I ought toknow what your name is and where you live.''Oh, I am at home both in the north and the south and the east and thewest, and I am called Farmer Weatherbeard,' said the master. 'You maycome here again in a year's time, and then I will tell you if the ladsuits me.' And then they set off again and were gone.When the man got home the old woman inquired what had become of the son.'Ah! Heaven only knows what has become of him!' said the man. 'They wentup aloft.' And then he told her what had happened.But when the woman heard that, and found that the man did not at allknow either when their son would be out of his apprentice ship, or wherehe had gone, she packed him off again to find out, and gave him a bag offood and a roll of tobacco to take away with him.When he had walked for some time he came to a great wood, and itstretched before him all day long as he went on, and when night began tofall he saw a great light, and went towards it. After a long, long timehe came to a small hut at the foot of a rock, outside which an old womanwas standing drawing water up from a well with her nose, it was so long.'Good evening, mother,' said the man.'Good evening to you too,' said the old woman. 'No one has called memother this hundred years.''Can I lodge here to night?' said the man.'No,' said the old woman. But the man took out his roll of tobacco,lighted a little of it, and then gave her a whiff. Then she was sodelighted that she began to dance, and thus the man got leave tostay the night there. It was not long before he asked about FarmerWeatherbeard.She said that she knew nothing about him, but that she ruled over allthe four footed beasts, and some of them might know him. So she gatheredthem all together by blowing a whistle which she had, and questionedthem, but there was not one of them which knew anything about FarmerWeatherbeard.'Well,' said the old woman, 'there are three of us sisters. it may bethat one of the other two knows where he is to be found. You shall havethe loan of my horse and carriage, and then you will get there by night.but her house is three hundred miles off, go the nearest way you will.'The man set out and got there at night. When he arrived, this old womanalso was standing drawing water out of the well with her nose.'Good evening, mother,' said the man.'Good evening to you,' said the old woman. 'No one has ever called memother this hundred years.''Can I lodge here to night?' said the man.'No,' said the old woman.Then he took out the roll of tobacco, took a whiff, and gave the oldwoman some snuff on the back of her hand. Then she was so delighted thatshe began to dance, and the man got leave to stay all night. It was notlong before he began to ask about Farmer Weatherbeard.She knew nothing about him, but she ruled over all the fishes, she said,and perhaps some of them might know something. So she gathered them alltogether by blowing a whistle which she had, and questioned them, butthere was not one of them which knew anything about Farmer Weatherbeard.'Well,' said the old woman, 'I have another sister. perhaps she may knowsomething about him. She lives six hundred miles off, but you shall havemy horse and carriage, and then you will get there by nightfall.'So the man set off and he got there by nightfall. The old woman wasstanding raking the fire, and she was doing it with her nose, so long itwas.'Good evening, mother,' said the man.'Good evening to you,' said the old woman. 'No one has called me motherthis hundred years.''Can I lodge here to night?' said the man.'No,' said the old woman. But the man pulled out his roll of tobaccoagain, and filled his pipe with some of it, and gave the old womanenough snuff to cover the back of her hand. Then she was so delightedthat she began to dance, and the man got leave to stay in her house. Itwas not long before he asked about Farmer Weatherbeard. She knew nothingat all about him, she said, but she governed all the birds. and shegathered them together with her whistle. When she questioned them all,the eagle was not there, but it came soon afterwards, and when asked,it said that it had just come from Farmer Weatherbeard's. Then the oldwoman said that it was to guide the man to him. But the eagle would havesomething to eat first, and then it wanted to wait until the next day,for it was so tired with the long journey that it was scarcely able torise from the earth.When the eagle had had plenty of food and rest, the old woman pluckeda feather out of its tail, and set the man in the feather's place,and then the bird flew away with him, but they did not get to FarmerWeatherbeard's before midnight.When they got there the Eagle said: 'There are a great many dead bodieslying outside the door, but you must not concern yourself about them.The people who are inside the house are all so sound asleep that it willnot be easy to awake them. but you must go straight to the table drawer,and take out three bits of bread, and if you hear anyone snoring, pluckthree feathers from his head. he will not waken for that.'The man did this. when he had got the bits of bread he first plucked outone feather.'Oof!' screamed Farmer Weatherbeard.So the man plucked out another, and then Farmer Weatherbeardshrieked 'Oof!' again. but when the man had plucked the third, FarmerWeatherbeard screamed so loudly that the man thought that brick andmortar would be rent in twain, but for all that he went on sleeping.And now the Eagle told the man what he was to do next, and he did it.He went to the stable door, and there he stumbled against a hard stone,which he picked up, and beneath it lay three splinters of wood, which healso picked up. He knocked at the stable door and it opened at once. Hethrew down the three little bits of bread and a hare came out andate them. He caught the hare. Then the Eagle told him to pluck threefeathers out of its tail, and put in the hare, the stone, the splintersof wood and himself instead of them, and then he would be able to carrythem all home.When the Eagle had flown a long way it alighted on a stone.'Do you see anything?' it asked.'Yes. I see a flock of crows coming flying after us,' said the man.'Then we shall do well to fly on a little farther,' said the Eagle, andoff it set.In a short time it asked again, 'Do you see anything now?''Yes. now the crows are close behind us,' said the man.'Then throw down the three feathers which you plucked out of his head,'said the Eagle.So the man did this, and no sooner had he flung them down than thefeathers became a flock of ravens, which chased the crows home again.Then the Eagle flew on much farther with the man, but at length italighted on a stone for a while.'Do you see anything?' it said.'I am not quite certain,' said the man, 'but I think I see somethingcoming in the far distance.''Then we shall do well to fly on a little farther,' said the Eagle, andaway it went.'Do you see anything now?' it said, after some time had gone by.'Yes. now they are close behind us,' said the man.'Then throw down the splinters of wood which you took from beneath thegray stone by the stable door,' said the Eagle. The man did this, and nosooner had he flung them down than they grew up into a great thick wood,and Farmer Weatherbeard had to go home for an axe to cut his way throughit. So the Eagle flew on a long, long way, but then it grew tired andsat down on a fir tree.'Do you see anything?' it asked.'Yes. I am not quite certain,' said the man, 'but I think I can catch aglimpse of something far, far away.''Then we shall do well to fly on a little farther,' said the Eagle, andit set off again.'Do you see anything now?' it said after some time had gone by.'Yes. he is close behind us now,' said the man.'Then you must fling down the great stone which you took away from thestable door,' said the Eagle.The man did so, and it turned into a great high mountain of stone, whichFarmer Weatherbeard had to break his way through before he could followthem. But when he had got to the middle of the mountain he broke one ofhis legs, so he had to go home to get it put right.While he was doing this the Eagle flew off to the man's home withhim, and with the hare, and when they had got home the man went to thechurchyard, and had some Christian earth laid upon the hare, and then itturned into his son Jack.When the time came for the fair the youth turned himself into alight coloured horse, and bade his father go to the market with him. 'Ifanyone should come who wants to buy me,' said he, 'you are to tell himthat you want a hundred dollars for me. but you must not forget to takeoff the halter, for if you do I shall never be able to get away fromFarmer Weatherbeard, for he is the man who will come and bargain forme.'And thus it happened. A horse dealer came who had a great fancy tobargain for the horse, and the man got a hundred dollars for it, butwhen the bargain was made, and Jack's father had got the money, thehorse dealer wanted to have the halter.'That was no part of our bargain,' said the man, 'and the halter youshall not have, for I have other horses which I shall have to sell.'So each of them went his way. But the horse dealer had not got very farwith Jack before he resumed his own form again, and when the man gothome he was sitting on the bench by the stove.The next day he changed himself into a brown horse and told his fatherthat he was to set off to market with him. 'If a man should come whowants to buy me,' said Jack, 'you are to tell him that you want twohundred dollars, for that he will give, and treat you besides. butwhatsoever you drink, and whatsoever you do, don't forget to take thehalter off me, or you will never see me more.'And thus it happened. The man got his two hundred dollars for the horse,and was treated as well, and when they parted from each other it wasjust as much as he could do to remember to take off the halter. Butthe buyer had not got far on his way before the youth took his own formagain, and when the man reached home Jack was already sitting on thebench by the stove.On the third day all happened in the same way. The youth changed himselfinto a great black horse, and told his father that if a man came andoffered him three hundred dollars, and treated him well and handsomelyinto the bargain, he was to sell him, but whatsoever he did, or how muchsoever he drank, he must not forget to take off the halter, or elsehe himself would never get away from Farmer Weatherbeard as long as helived.'No,' said the man, 'I will not forget.'When he got to the market, he received the three hundred dollars, butFarmer Weatherbeard treated him so handsomely that he quite forgot totake off the halter. so Farmer Weatherbeard went away with the horse.When he had got some distance he had to go into an inn to get some morebrandy. so he set a barrel full of red hot nails under his horse's nose,and a trough filled with oats beneath its tail, and then he tied thehalter fast to a hook and went away into the inn. So the horse stoodthere stamping, and kicking, and snorting, and rearing, and out came agirl who thought it a sin and a shame to treat a horse so ill.'Ah, poor creature, what a master you must have to treat you thus!' shesaid, and pushed the halter off the hook so that the horse might turnround and eat the oats.'I am here!' shrieked Farmer Weatherbeard, rushing out of doors. Butthe horse had already shaken off the halter and flung himself intoa goose pond, where he changed himself into a little fish. FarmerWeatherbeard went after him, and changed himself into a great pike. SoJack turned himself into a dove, and Farmer Weatherbeard turned himselfinto a hawk, and flew after the dove and struck it. But a Princess wasstanding at a window in the King's palace watching the struggle.'If thou didst but know as much as I know, thou wouldst fly in to methrough the window,' said the Princess to the dove.So the dove came flying in through the window and changed itself intoJack again, and told her all as it had happened.'Change thyself into a gold ring, and set thyself on my finger,' saidthe Princess.'No, that will not do,' said Jack, 'for then Farmer Weatherbeard willmake the King fall sick, and there will be no one who can make him wellagain before Farmer Weatherbeard comes and cures him, and for that hewill demand the gold ring.''I will say that it was my mother's, and that I will not part with it,'said the Princess.So Jack changed himself into a gold ring, and set himself on thePrincess's finger, and Farmer Weatherbeard could not get at him there.But then all that the youth had foretold came to pass.The King became ill, and there was no doctor who could cure him tillFarmer Weatherbeard arrived, and he demanded the ring which was on thePrincess's finger as a reward.So the King sent a messenger to the Princess for the ring. She, however,refused to part with it, because she had inherited it from her mother.When the King was informed of this he fell into a rage, and said that hewould have the ring, let her have inherited it from whom she might.'Well, it's of no use to be angry about it,' said the Princess, 'for Ican't get it off. If you want the ring you will have to take the fingertoo!''I will try, and then the ring will very soon come off,' said FarmerWeatherbeard.'No, thank you, I will try myself,' said the Princess, and she went awayto the fireplace and put some ashes on the ring.So the ring came off and was lost among the ashes.Farmer Weatherbeard changed himself into a hare, which scratched andscraped about in the fireplace after the ring until the ashes were up toits ears. But Jack changed himself into a fox, and bit the hare's headoff, and if Farmer Weatherbeard was possessed by the evil one all wasnow over with him.(25)(25) From P. C. Asbjornsen.