Several hundreds of years ago there lived in a forest a wood cutter andhis wife and children. He was very poor, having only his axe to dependupon, and two mules to carry the wood he cut to the neighbouring town.but he worked hard, and was always out of bed by five o'clock, summerand winter.This went on for twenty years, and though his sons were now grownup, and went with their father to the forest, everything seemed togo against them, and they remained as poor as ever. In the end thewood cutter lost heart, and said to himself:'What is the good of working like this if I never am a penny the richerat the end? I shall go to the forest no more! And perhaps, if I take tomy bed, and do not run after Fortune, one day she may come to me.'So the next morning he did not get up, and when six o'clock struck, hiswife, who had been cleaning the house, went to see what was the matter.'Are you ill?' she asked wonderingly, surprised at not finding himdressed. 'The cock has crowed ever so often. It is high time for you toget up.''Why should I get up?' asked the man, without moving.'Why? to go to the forest, of course.''Yes. and when I have toiled all day I hardly earn enough to give us onemeal.''But what can we do, my poor husband?' said she. 'It is just a trick ofFortune's, who would never smile upon us.''Well, I have had my fill of Fortune's tricks,' cried he. 'If she wantsme she can find me here. But I have done with the wood for ever.''My dear husband, grief has driven you mad! Do you think Fortune willcome to anybody who does not go after her? Dress yourself, and saddlethe mules, and begin your work. Do you know that there is not a morselof bread in the house?''I don't care if there isn't, and I am not going to the forest. It is nouse your talking. nothing will make me change my mind.'The distracted wife begged and implored in vain. her husband persistedin staying in bed, and at last, in despair, she left him and went backto her work.An hour or two later a man from the nearest village knocked at her door,and when she opened it, he said to her: 'Good morning, mother. I havegot a job to do, and I want to know if your husband will lend me yourmules, as I see he is not using them, and can lend me a hand himself?''He is upstairs. you had better ask him,' answered the woman. And theman went up, and repeated his request.'I am sorry, neighbour, but I have sworn not to leave my bed, andnothing will make me break my vow.''Well, then, will you lend me your two mules? I will pay you somethingfor them.''Certainly, neighbour. Take them and welcome.'So the man left the house, and leading the mules from the stable, placedtwo sacks on their back, and drove them to a field where he had founda hidden treasure. He filled the sacks with the money, though he knewperfectly well that it belonged to the sultan, and was driving themquietly home again, when he saw two soldiers coming along the road. Nowthe man was aware that if he was caught he would be condemned to death,so he fled back into the forest. The mules, left to themselves, took thepath that led to their master's stable.The wood cutter's wife was looking out of the window when the mules drewup before the door, so heavily laden that they almost sank under theirburdens. She lost no time in calling her husband, who was still lying inbed.'Quick! quick! get up as fast as you can. Our two mules have returnedwith sacks on their backs, so heavily laden with something or other thatthe poor beasts can hardly stand up.''Wife, I have told you a dozen times already that I am not going to getup. Why can't you leave me in peace?'As she found she could get no help from her husband the woman took alarge knife and cut the cords which bound the sacks on to the animals'backs. They fell at once to the ground, and out poured a rain of goldpieces, till the little court yard shone like the sun.'A treasure!' gasped the woman, as soon as she could speak fromsurprise. 'A treasure!' And she ran off to tell her husband.'Get up! get up!' she cried. 'You were quite right not to go to theforest, and to await Fortune in your bed. she has come at last! Ourmules have returned home laden with all the gold in the world, and it isnow lying in the court. No one in the whole country can be as rich as weare!'In an instant the wood cutter was on his feet, and running to the court,where he paused dazzled by the glitter of the coins which lay aroundhim.'You see, my dear wife, that I was right,' he said at last. 'Fortuneis so capricious, you can never count on her. Run after her, and she issure to fly from you. stay still, and she is sure to come.'