Fortunio, a servant, endeavoring to crush a fly, kills his master, andsaves himself from the gallows by a pleasantry.There lived in the city of Ferrara a rich grocer of good descent, who hadin his service Fortunio, a fat good tempered fellow of very slender wit.Now in the great heats the grocer was wont to lie down to sleep in themiddle of the day, and at such times it was Fortunio's part to keep offthe flies with a fan, lest they should disturb his master. One day itchanced that, amongst the others, was a very greedy meddlesome horsefly,which took no heed of Fortunio's fanning, nor of his strokes, but alightedconstantly on the grocer's bald pate and stung him grievously. And thoughthe fly was chased away three or four times, it always came back to givefresh trouble.At last the servant, incensed at the boldness and persistency of the fly,rashly made trial to kill it when it was about to settle again on hismaster's temple and suck his blood. Simple fool that he was, he caught upa weighty bronze pestle, and, striking at the fly with all his might withthe intent to kill it, he made an end of the grocer instead.As soon as Fortunio saw that he had slain his master and thereby madehimself liable to death by the law, he took counsel with himself how hemight best save his neck, and first resolved to seek safety in flight, buthe afterwards fixed upon another scheme, which was to bury the corpsesecretly. Therefore, having wrapped up the dead body of his master in asack and carried it into a garden adjacent to the shop, he buried itthere. This done he went to the sheepfold, and, having chosen a big oldram, he took it and threw it down the well.As the master did not appear at his usual hour in the evening the wife'ssuspicion fell upon Fortunio, and she questioned him as to her husband'swhereabouts, but the fellow declared stoutly that he knew nothing of it.Then the good wife, overcome with grief, began to weep and to call for herhusband aloud, but she called in vain. She went to her kinsfolk and toldthem her grief. whereupon they sought the governor of the city, and laidthe crime to Fortunio's charge, demanding that he should be imprisoned andput to the question, in order to make him tell what had become of hismaster.The governor, having put the servant in hold and tied him to the rope,gave him the strappado as prescribed by law, on account of the chargesagainst him. Handling of this sort was not to his taste, and he forthwithpromised to tell all he knew, if they would let him down.So they brought him before the judge, and this was the cunning tale he hadprepared for their befooling: "Yesterday, O judge! when I was asleep nearthe well, I was awakened by a great noise, as of some mighty rock beinghurled down into the water below. In my amazement I ran to the well andlooked into it, but the water was quite clear and I could see nothingamiss. so I turned to go back to the house, when the same noise again metmy ears. I am now quite sure in my mind that my master, when trying todraw some water up out of the well, fell down into it. Now, that the truthof the matter may be laid bare, I make petition that all now present maygo to the spot. then I will descend into the well and disclose what I mayfind therein."The judge was favorable to Fortunio's prayer, holding that experiment isthe surest proof, and that no evidence can equal what is brought beforeone's eyes, and betook himself to the well, bidding the whole assemblyfollow. There went not only the worshipful persons who were about thejudge, but also a vast crowd of the common people, who were curious tolearn what might be the issue of the affair.Fortunio, obeying the commandment of the judge, went straightway down thewell, and, when he had reached the bottom, made believe to be searchingfor his master's body in the water. but what he found was the carcass ofthe old ram which he himself had lately cast in.Feigning to be vastly amazed at this, the cunning fellow bawled up fromthe bottom of the well, "O my mistress! Tell me whether your husband, mypoor master, had horns or not. for I have alighted on somebody down herewho has got an enormous pair, both long and large. Is it possible that hecan be your husband?"And when the good wife heard Fortunio's question she was so much overcomewith shame that she could not find a word to say for herself. Meanwhilethe bystanders waited, open mouthed with curiosity, to set eyes on thiscorpse with horns, and to see whether it really was the body of themissing grocer or not. and when they saw hauled up Fortunio's old ram,they all clapped their hands, and were shaken by loud laughter.The judge, when he saw the issue of Fortunio's search, deemed that thefoolish fellow was acting in good faith, and that he verily believed whathe brought out of the well to be the remains of his master. On thisaccount the judge let him go free, as innocent, but the grocer was neverseen more, and the good wife, to her dying day, bore the shame anent thehorns which Fortunio's cunning trick had cast upon her.