Proverbial wisdom notwithstanding, old people do not always gain therespect and the care that they deserve. Where ethics and morality fail,trickery is justified. In folktales there is no trickier fox than an oldfox. The fox's cousin, faced with destruction, can also be clever.Animal fables, one of the oldest and most honored genres of folklore,have been used for centuries to expose social injustice and to promoteethical behavior. A younger generation's care for the aged is a topic thathas not gone unnoticed in this genre. The fables often exhibit a cynicalview, suggesting that a younger person's moral sensitivity may not besufficient in causing him or her to care for older individuals. A certainamount of trickery and deception may be required, but   taking the talesatface value   in this case the ends do indeed justify the means.Especiallyif you are the old person whose life is thus preserved.A farmer intended to shoot a faithful dog, now too old to beof use. But the dog's friend the wolf had a plan. Accordingly, he seizedthe master's child. the dog pursued and with a pretended struggle rescuedthe child. The grateful farmer now promised to keep the old dog as long ashe lived.Source: Retold from " Old Sultan " (Grimm,Tales, no. 48, type 101). For additional tales of this type (fromGermany, Bohemia, Russia, and Japan) see Old Dogs Learn New Tricks .Another, even better known, story about old animals who make a goodlife for themselves through trickery is " The Bremen Town Musicians ":A donkey, a dog, a cat, and a rooster had all grown old andfeared for their lives, so they set out for Bremen, where they hoped tobecome town musicians. That night they came to a house in the woods.Seeing a band of robbers inside, they devised a plan to drive the villainsaway. The donkey placed his forefeet on the window ledge, the dog mountedthe donkey, the cat climbed on the dog's back, and the rooster perched onthe cat's head. Then each began to sing. The terrified robbers fled, andthe four musicians stayed there from then on.Source: Type 130, retold from Grimm, no. 27. For numerousadditional variants see Ashliman, A Guide to Folktales, p.28, and Animals inExile , folktales of Aarne Thompson type 130.Significantly, the aging and threatened animals in this famous tale donot even seek refuge with their own people and in their own community. Therural society symbolically reflected in this fable has no safety net forthose too old to further contribute. But there is always the hope greenergrass on the other side of the fence, the pot of gold at the end of therainbow, the pie in the sky. The dispossessed farm animals know what thecountry has to offer them: poverty and death. They, like multitudes oftheir real life human counterparts, can hope that the city will be kinderto them. Bremen, residence of bishops, center of trade, and gateway to theworld surely can provide opportunity, even for old people whose onlyresources are naive faith and a willingness to sing for their supper.The inventor of this fable wisely did not allow the dispossessedanimals to find their way to the city, where   by any realisticstandards   their dreams would have been cruelly shattered. This is not acautionary tale, preaching exemplary behavior to the aged. This is a fableof fantasy escape, and our heroes find a safe haven in a remote corner ofthe forest, far from Bremen.Note: The good citizens of Bremen seem to have lost sight ofthis detail. One of the city's most photographed attractions is GerhardMarcks's statue of the four animal musicians located in the courtyard ofthe Pfarrkirche Unserer Lieben Frauen in the center of thecity.We are apparently little bothered by the fact that their security comesat the expense of another marginalized group, the robbers. We assume,if   indeed   we give such ethical details a second thought, that therobbers, like the witch in the Grimms' " Hansel and Gretel ," the ogre inPerrault's " Little Thumb ,"and countless other sinister forest dwellers,came by their wealth dishonorably, and that it is hence legitimate bootyfor our (temporarily) disadvantaged heroes and heroines.An old man, thinking himself near death, divided his propertyamong his sons. But he did not die, and his sons treated their nowimpoverished father cruelly. To correct this, he obtained four bags fullof gravel, and pretended they contained money he had received in paymentof an old debt. Hoping for an added inheritance, the sons immediatelybecame attentive to his every need, making every effort to please himuntil the day he died.Source: Retold from "How the Wicked Sons Were Duped" (type982, Jacobs, Indian Fairy Tales, p. 221.For additional tales of this type from India, Sri Lanka, Germany, andEngland see Ungrateful Heirs:Folktales of Type 982 .