The poor Marionette, who was still half asleep, had not yet found outthat his two feet were burned and gone. As soon as he heard his Father'svoice, he jumped up from his seat to open the door, but, as he did so,he staggered and fell headlong to the floor.In falling, he made as much noise as a sack of wood falling from thefifth story of a house."Open the door for me!" Geppetto shouted from the street."Father, dear Father, I can't," answered the Marionette in despair,crying and rolling on the floor."Why can't you?""Because someone has eaten my feet.""And who has eaten them?""The cat," answered Pinocchio, seeing that little animal busily playingwith some shavings in the corner of the room."Open! I say," repeated Geppetto, "or I'll give you a sound whippingwhen I get in.""Father, believe me, I can't stand up. Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I shall haveto walk on my knees all my life."Geppetto, thinking that all these tears and cries were only other pranksof the Marionette, climbed up the side of the house and went in throughthe window.At first he was very angry, but on seeing Pinocchio stretched out on thefloor and really without feet, he felt very sad and sorrowful. Pickinghim up from the floor, he fondled and caressed him, talking to him whilethe tears ran down his cheeks:"My little Pinocchio, my dear little Pinocchio! How did you burn yourfeet?""I don't know, Father, but believe me, the night has been a terrible oneand I shall remember it as long as I live. The thunder was so noisy andthe lightning so bright and I was hungry. And then the Talking Cricketsaid to me, 'You deserve it. you were bad.' and I said to him, 'Careful,Cricket.' and he said to me, 'You are a Marionette and you have a woodenhead.' and I threw the hammer at him and killed him. It was his ownfault, for I didn't want to kill him. And I put the pan on the coals,but the Chick flew away and said, 'I'll see you again! Remember me tothe family.' And my hunger grew, and I went out, and the old man with anightcap looked out of the window and threw water on me, and I came homeand put my feet on the stove to dry them because I was still hungry,and I fell asleep and now my feet are gone but my hunger isn't!Oh! Oh! Oh!" And poor Pinocchio began to scream and cry so loudly thathe could be heard for miles around.Geppetto, who had understood nothing of all that jumbled talk, exceptthat the Marionette was hungry, felt sorry for him, and pulling threepears out of his pocket, offered them to him, saying:"These three pears were for my breakfast, but I give them to you gladly.Eat them and stop weeping.""If you want me to eat them, please peel them for me.""Peel them?" asked Geppetto, very much surprised. "I should never havethought, dear boy of mine, that you were so dainty and fussy about yourfood. Bad, very bad! In this world, even as children, we must accustomourselves to eat of everything, for we never know what life may hold instore for us!""You may be right," answered Pinocchio, "but I will not eat the pears ifthey are not peeled. I don't like them."And good old Geppetto took out a knife, peeled the three pears, and putthe skins in a row on the table.Pinocchio ate one pear in a twinkling and started to throw the coreaway, but Geppetto held his arm."Oh, no, don't throw it away! Everything in this world may be of someuse!""But the core I will not eat!" cried Pinocchio in an angry tone."Who knows?" repeated Geppetto calmly.And later the three cores were placed on the table next to the skins.Pinocchio had eaten the three pears, or rather devoured them. Then heyawned deeply, and wailed:"I'm still hungry.""But I have no more to give you.""Really, nothing nothing?""I have only these three cores and these skins.""Very well, then," said Pinocchio, "if there is nothing else I'll eatthem."At first he made a wry face, but, one after another, the skins and thecores disappeared."Ah! Now I feel fine!" he said after eating the last one."You see," observed Geppetto, "that I was right when I told you that onemust not be too fussy and too dainty about food. My dear, we never knowwhat life may have in store for us!"