Once there was a widower, who had a housekeeper named Gidske. She wanted to have him as a husband, and she begged him night and day to marry her. At last the man grew tired of this, but he did not know how to get rid of her.It was between hay time and the grain harvest. The hemp was ripe, and the two went out to harvest it. Gidske thought herself good looking, clever, and capable. She worked away at the hemp until she grew giddy from the strong smell of the ripe seeds. At last she lay down on the ground and fell fast asleep among the hemp plants. While she slept, the man got a pair of scissors and cut off her skirts. Then he smeared her all over, first with tallow and then with soot, until she looked worse than the devil himself.When Gidske woke up and saw how ugly she was, she didn't recognize herself."Can this be me?" she asked. "No! It cannot be me. I have never looked this ugly. I must be the devil himself."Wanting to know the truth, she went off and knocked at her master's door, and asked, "Is your Gidske at home today?""Yes, our Gidske is safely here at home," said the man, who wanted to be rid of her."Then I can't be his Gidske," she said to herself and stole away.The man was happy to be rid of her.After she had walked some distance she came to a great forest, where she met two thieves."I'll join up with those two," thought Gidske, "Since I am the devil, thieves are the right companions for me."But the thieves did not think so. When they saw Gidske, they ran off as fast as they could, for they thought the Evil One had come to capture them. But it did them no good, for Gidske was long legged and fast on her feet. She caught up with them before they knew it."If you're going out to stealing things, I'll go with you and help," said Gidske. "I know this area very well."When the thieves heard that, they thought they had found a good mate, and they were no longer afraid of her. They said they were off to steal a sheep, only they didn't know where to get one."Oh!" said Gidske. "That's easy. I was in service for a long time with a farmer over there beyond the woods. I could find his sheep shed even on the darkest night.The thieves liked to hear this. When they got there, Gidske was to go into the shed and push out a sheep, and they were to take hold of it. Now, the sheep shed lay close to the wall of the house where the farmer was asleep, so Gidske crept in quietly and with caution.But, as soon as she was inside, she shouted out to the thieves, "Do you want a ram or a ewe? There are many to choose from in here!""Shh! Shh!" said the thieves. "Just take one that is good and fat.""Yes! But but do you want a ram or a ewe? Do you want a ram or a ewe? There are many to choose from in here!" shouted Gidske."Shh! Shh!" said the thieves again "Just take one that's good and fat. We don't care whether it's a ram or a ewe.""Yes!" insisted Gidske. "But do you want a ram or a ewe   a ram or a ewe? There are many to choose from in here!""Shut up!" said the thieves, "and take a good fat one. Ram or ewe, we don't care which."All of this noise woke the farmer, and he came out in his nightshirt to see what was going on. The thieves took to their heels, and Gidske rushed after them, knocking the farmer off his feet as she fled."Stop, boys! Stop, boys!" she shouted.The farmer, who had only seen the black creature, was so frightened that he could hardly stand upright, for he thought it was the devil himself that had been in his sheep shed. He went indoors, woke up the whole household, and they all began to pray, for the farmer had heard that this was the way to protect oneself from the devil.The next night the thieves planned to go and steal a fat goose. Gidske was to show them the way. When they came to the goose coop, Gidske was to go inside and send one out, for she knew the ways of the place. The thieves were to stand outside and catch it.As soon as she was inside she began to shout, "Do you want a goose or gander? There are plenty to choose from in here!""Shh! Shh! Just choose a nice fat one," said the thieves."Yes! But do you want a goose or gander   goose or gander? There are plenty to choose from in here!" shouted Gidske."Shh! Shh! Just choose one that's nice and fat. We don't care whether it's a goose or a gander. but do shut up," they said.While Gidske and the thieves were arguing about this, one of the geese began to cackle, and then another cackled, and then the whole flock cackled and hissed. The farmer came out to see what was causing the noise, and the thieves ran off at full speed, with Gidske following after them. This farmer too thought that it was the devil himself fleeing away, for Gidske was long legged, and she had no skirts to hamper her."Hold up, boys!" she shouted. "You should have said whether you wanted a goose or a gander!"But the thieves did not stop. As for the farmer, he ran back home and began pleading and praying with all the household, for they all thought that the devil had been there.On the third day at nightfall the thieves and Gidske were so hungry that they did not know what to do. They decided to go to the storehouse of a rich farmer who lived at the edge of the woods, and steal some food.Off they went The thieves did not dare to go inside, so Gidske was to go up the steps into the storehouse, and hand out the food. The others would stand below and take it from her. When Gidske got inside, she saw that the storehouse was full of all sorts of things: beef, pork, sausages, and pea bread.The thieves begged her to be quiet, and just throw out something to eat. She should remember how everything had gone so wrong on the two previous nights.But Gidske paid no attention to them. "Will you have beef, pork, sausages, or pea bread? Look at this lovely pea bread!" she shouted out, until it rang. "You may have whatever you want! There's plenty to choose from here!"All this noise woke up the farmer, and he ran out to see what was the matter. The thieves ran off as fast as they could. Gidske came down from the storehouse, all black and ugly."Stop, boys! Stop!" she shouted." You can have whatever you want! There's plenty to choose from here!"When the farmer saw that ugly monster, he too thought that the devil was on the loose, for he had heard what had happened to his neighbors the nights before. He too began plead and pray, and every one in the whole parish did the same thing, for they all knew that you could banish the devil with prayers.The next evening was a Saturday, and the thieves wanted to steal a fat ram for their Sunday dinner. The had not eaten for many days, but this time they wouldn't take Gidske with them at any price. Her loud mouth brought them bad luck, they said.On Sunday morning Gidske was walking about waiting for the thieves to return. Having fasted for three days, she was very hungry, so she went into a turnip field and pulled up some turnips to eat. The farmer who owned the turnips went out to the field to see if everything was in order there. When he got there he saw something black walking about in the field and pulling up his turnips. He thought that it was the devil, so he ran home as fast as he could, and said that the devil in his turnip field. This frightened the whole household, so they decided to send for the priest, and get him to restrain the devil."That won't do," said the famer's wife. "This is Sunday morning. You'll never get the priest to come. He'll still be in bed. or if he's up, he'll be learning his sermon.""Oh!" said the farmer, "I'll promise him a fat loin of veal, and he'll come fast enough."Off he went to the priest's house. but when he got there, sure enough, the priest was still in bed.The maid told the farmer to step into the parlor, then she ran up to the priest, and said, "Farmer So and So is downstairs, and wishes to have a word with you."Well! When the priest heard that such an important man was downstairs, he got up at once and came down just as he was, in his slippers and nightcap.So the farmer related how the devil was loose in his turnip field. and if the priest would only come and restrain him, he would give the priest a fat loin of veal. Yes! The priest was willing enough and called out to his groom to saddle his horse, while he dressed himself."No, no, father!" said the farmer. "The devil won't wait for us. No one knows where we'll find him if we miss him now. Your reverence must come at once, just as you are."So the priest followed him just as he was, in his nightcap and slippers. They came to a swampy area, and it was so wet that the priest couldn't cross it in his slippers. So the farmer took him on his back to carry him over. They made their way from one clump to another, until they got to the middle.Gidske caught sight of them, and thought it was the thieves bringing the ram."Is he fat?" she screamed. "Is he fat?" and made such a noise that the wood rang again."The devil knows if he's fat or lean. I'm sure I don't," said the farmer, when he heard her. "But, if you must know, come and see for yourself."Then the farmer became so afraid, he threw the priest head over heels into the swamp, and then ran off.If the priest hasn't gotten out, he must still be lying there.