Once upon a time there was an old man who already had twelve children,and when the thirteenth was born he did not know where to turn for help.In desperation he went into the woods. There the Good Lord happened uponhim and said to him, "I feel sorry for you, poor man. I will lift yourchild from his baptism and take care of him. He will be happy onearth."The man answered, "I do not want you as a godfather. You give to therich and let the poor starve." With that he left him standing there andcontinued on his way.Soon thereafter Death happened upon him and also said to him, "I willbe godfather for you and pick up your child. And if he has me as a friend,he will lack nothing. I will make a doctor of him."The man said, "I am satisfied with that, for without distinction youtake the rich as well as the poor. Tomorrow is Sunday, when the child willbe baptized. Be on time."The next day Death arrived and held the child for his baptism. After hehad grown up, Death came again and took his godchild into the woods, andsaid to him, "Now you are to become a doctor. You must only pay attentionwhen you are called to a sick person and see if I am standing at his head.If so, without further ado let him smell from this flask, then anoint hisfeet with its contents, and he soon will regain his health. But if I amstanding at his feet, then he is finished, for I will soon take him. Donot attempt to begin a cure."With that Death gave him the flask, and he became a renowned doctor. Heonly needed to see a patient, and he could immediately predict whether hewould regain his health or die.Once he was summoned to the king, who was suffering from a seriousillness. When the doctor approached him, he saw Death standing at theking's feet, and his flask would be of no use. But it occurred to him thathe might deceive Death. Thus he took hold of the king and turned himaround, so that Death was now standing at his head. It succeeded, and theking regained his health.After the doctor returned home, Death came to him, made angry and grimfaces at him, and said, "If you ever again attempt to deceive me, I shallwring your neck."Soon afterward the king's beautiful daughter took ill. No one on earthcould help her. The king wept day and night, until finally he proclaimedthat whoever could cure her could have her as a reward. The doctor cameand saw Death standing at her feet. Astonished at her beauty, he forgotthe warning, turned her around, let her smell from the healing flask, andanointed the soles of her feet with its contents.He had scarcely returned home when Death with his terrifying faceappeared before him, seized him, and carried him to an underground cavernwhere many thousand lights were burning."Look!" said Death. "These are all the living. And here is a light thatwill burn only a little longer, and then go out. This is your life! Takeheed!"