Once upon a time there was a king who had a wife, whose name wasSilver Tree, and a daughter, whose name was Gold Tree. On a certain day ofthe days, Gold Tree and Silver Tree went to a glen, where there was awell, and in it there was a trout.Said Silver Tree, "Troutie, bonny little fellow, am not I the mostbeautiful queen in the world?""Oh! indeed you are not.""Who then?""Why, Gold Tree, your daughter."Silver Tree went home, blind with rage. She lay down on the bed, andvowed she would never be well until she could get the heart and the liverof Gold Tree, her daughter, to eat.At nightfall the king came home, and it was told him that Silver Tree,his wife, was very ill. He went where she was, and asked her what waswrong with her."Oh! only a thing which you may heal if you like.""Oh! indeed there is nothing at all which I could do for you that Iwould not do.""If I get the heart and the liver of Gold Tree, my daughter, to eat, Ishall be well."Now it happened about this time that the son of a great king had comefrom abroad to ask Gold Tree for marrying. The king now agreed to this,and they went abroad.The king then went and sent his lads to the hunting hill for a he goat,and he gave its heart and its liver to his wife to eat. and she rose welland healthy.A year after this Silver Tree went to the glen, where there was thewell in which there was the trout."Troutie, bonny little fellow," said she, "am not I the most beautifulqueen in the world?""Oh! indeed you are not.""Who then?""Why, Gold Tree, your daughter.""Oh! well, it is long since she was living. It is a year since I ateher heart and liver.""Oh! indeed she is not dead. She is married to a great prince abroad."Silver Tree went home, and begged the king to put the long ship inorder, and said, "I am going to see my dear Gold Tree, for it is so longsince I saw her." The long ship was put in order, and they went away.It was Silver Tree herself that was at the helm, and she steered theship so well that they were not long at all before they arrived.The prince was out hunting on the hills. Gold Tree knew the long shipof her father coming."Oh!" said she to the servants, "my mother is coming, and she will killme.""She shall not kill you at all. we will lock you in a room where shecannot get near you."This is how it was done. and when Silver Tree came ashore, she began tocry out, "Come to meet your own mother, when she comes to see you."Gold Tree said that she could not, that she was locked in the room, andthat she could not get out of it."Will you not put out," said Silver Tree, "your little finger throughthe keyhole, so that your own mother may give a kiss to it?"She put out her little finger, and Silver Tree went and put a poisonedstab in it, and Gold Tree fell dead.When the prince came home, and found Gold Tree dead, he was in greatsorrow, and when he saw how beautiful she was, he did not bury her at all,but he locked her in a room where nobody would get near her.In the course of time he married again, and the whole house was underthe hand of this wife but one room, and he himself always kept the key ofthat room. On a certain day of the days her forgot to take the key withhim, and the second wife got into the room. What did she see there but themost beautiful woman that she ever saw.She began to turn and try to wake her, and she noticed the poisonedstab in her finger. She took the stab out, and Gold Tree rose alive, asbeautiful as she was ever.At the fall of night the prince came home from the hunting hill,looking very downcast."What gift," said his wife, "would you give me that I could make youlaugh?""Oh! indeed, nothing could make me laugh, except Gold Tree were to comealive again.""Well, you'll find her alive down there in the room."When the prince saw Gold Tree alive her made great rejoicings, and hebegan to kiss her, and kiss her, and kiss her. Said the second wife,"Since she is the first one you had it is better for you to stick to her,and I will go away.""Oh! indeed you shall not go away, but I shall have both of you."At the end of the year, Silver Tree went to the glen, where there wasthe well, in which there was the trout."Troutie, bonny little fellow," said she, "am not I the most beautifulqueen in the world?""Oh! indeed you are not.""Who then?""Why Gold Tree, your daughter.""Oh! well, she is not alive. It is a year since I put the poisoned stabinto her finger.""Oh! indeed she is not dead at all, at all."Silver Tree went home, and begged the king to put the long ship inorder, for that she was going to see her dear Gold Tree, as it was so longsince she saw her. The long ship was put in order, and they went away. Itwas Silver Tree herself that was at the helm, and she steered the ship sowell that they were not long at all before they arrived.The prince was out hunting on the hills. Gold Tree knew her father'sship coming."Oh!" said she, "my mother is coming, and she will kill me.""Not at all," said the second wife. "we will go down to meet her."Silver Tree came ashore. "Come down, Gold tree, love," said she, "foryour own mother has come to you with a precious drink.""It is a custom in this country," said the second wife, "that theperson who offers a drink takes a draught out of it first."Silver Tree put her mouth to it, and the second wife went and struck itso that some of it went down her throat, and she fell dead. they had onlyto carry her home a dead corpse and bury her.The prince and his two wives were long alive after this, pleased andpeaceful.I left them there.