ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen who had one charmingdaughter. She was so graceful and pretty and clever that she was calledGraciosa, and the Queen was so fond of her that she could think ofnothing else.Everyday she gave the Princess a lovely new frock of gold brocade,or satin, or velvet, and when she was hungry she had bowls full ofsugar plums, and at least twenty pots of jam. Everybody said she wasthe happiest Princess in the world. Now there lived at this same courta very rich old duchess whose name was Grumbly. She was more frightfulthan tongue can tell. her hair was red as fire, and she had but one eye,and that not a pretty one! Her face was as broad as a full moon, andher mouth was so large that everybody who met her would have been afraidthey were going to be eaten up, only she had no teeth. As she was ascross as she was ugly, she could not bear to hear everyone saying howpretty and how charming Graciosa was. so she presently went away fromthe court to her own castle, which was not far off. But if anybody whowent to see her happened to mention the charming Princess, she would cryangrily:'It's not true that she is lovely. I have more beauty in my littlefinger than she has in her whole body.'Soon after this, to the great grief of the Princess, the Queen was takenill and died, and the King became so melancholy that for a whole year heshut himself up in his palace. At last his physicians, fearing that hewould fall ill, ordered that he should go out and amuse himself. so ahunting party was arranged, but as it was very hot weather the King soongot tired, and said he would dismount and rest at a castle which theywere passing.This happened to be the Duchess Grumbly's castle, and when she heardthat the King was coming she went out to meet him, and said that thecellar was the coolest place in the whole castle if he would condescendto come down into it. So down they went together, and the King seeingabout two hundred great casks ranged side by side, asked if it was onlyfor herself that she had this immense store of wine.'Yes, sire,' answered she, 'it is for myself alone, but I shall bemost happy to let you taste some of it. Which do you like, canary, St.Julien, champagne, hermitage sack, raisin, or cider?''Well,' said the King, 'since you are so kind as to ask me, I preferchampagne to anything else.'Then Duchess Grumbly took up a little hammer and tapped upon the casktwice, and out came at least a thousand crowns.'What's the meaning of this?' said she smiling.Then she tapped the next cask, and out came a bushel of gold pieces.'I don't understand this at all,' said the Duchess, smiling more thanbefore.Then she went on to the third cask, tap, tap, and out came such a streamof diamonds and pearls that the ground was covered with them.'Ah!' she cried, 'this is altogether beyond my comprehension, sire.Someone must have stolen my good wine and put all this rubbish in itsplace.''Rubbish, do you call it, Madam Grumbly?' cried the King. 'Rubbish! whythere is enough there to buy ten kingdoms.''Well,' said she, 'you must know that all those casks are full of goldand jewels, and if you like to marry me it shall all be yours.'Now the King loved money more than anything else in the world, so hecried joyfully:'Marry you? why with all my heart! to morrow if you like.''But I make one condition,' said the Duchess. 'I must have entirecontrol of your daughter to do as I please with her.''Oh certainly, you shall have your own way. let us shake hands upon thebargain,' said the King.So they shook hands and went up out of the cellar of treasure together,and the Duchess locked the door and gave the key to the King.When he got back to his own palace Graciosa ran out to meet him, andasked if he had had good sport.'I have caught a dove,' answered he.'Oh! do give it to me,' said the Princess, 'and I will keep it and takecare of it.''I can hardly do that,' said he, 'for, to speak more plainly, I meanthat I met the Duchess Grumbly, and have promised to marry her.''And you call her a dove?' cried the Princess. '_I_ should have calledher a screech owl.''Hold your tongue,' said the King, very crossly. 'I intend you to behaveprettily to her. So now go and make yourself fit to be seen, as I amgoing to take you to visit her.'So the Princess went very sorrowfully to her own room, and her nurse,seeing her tears, asked what was vexing her.'Alas! who would not be vexed?' answered she, 'for the King intendsto marry again, and has chosen for his new bride my enemy, the hideousDuchess Grumbly.''Oh, well!' answered the nurse, 'you must remember that you are aPrincess, and are expected to set a good example in making the best ofwhatever happens. You must promise me not to let the Duchess see howmuch you dislike her.'At first the Princess would not promise, but the nurse showed her somany good reasons for it that in the end she agreed to be amiable to herstep mother.Then the nurse dressed her in a robe of pale green and gold brocade, andcombed out her long fair hair till it floated round her like a goldenmantle, and put on her head a crown of roses and jasmine with emeraldleaves.When she was ready nobody could have been prettier, but she still couldnot help looking sad.Meanwhile the Duchess Grumbly was also occupied in attiring herself. Shehad one of her shoe heels made an inch or so higher than the other, thatshe might not limp so much, and put in a cunningly made glass eye in theplace of the one she had lost. She dyed her red hair black, and paintedher face. Then she put on a gorgeous robe of lilac satin lined withblue, and a yellow petticoat trimmed with violet ribbons, and becauseshe had heard that queens always rode into their new dominions, sheordered a horse to be made ready for her to ride.While Graciosa was waiting until the King should be ready to set out,she went down all alone through the garden into a little wood, where shesat down upon a mossy bank and began to think. And her thoughts were sodoleful that very soon she began to cry, and she cried, and cried, andforgot all about going back to the palace, until she suddenly saw ahandsome page standing before her. He was dressed in green, and the capwhich he held in his hand was adorned with white plumes. When Graciosalooked at him he went down on one knee, and said to her:'Princess, the King awaits you.'The Princess was surprised, and, if the truth must be told, very muchdelighted at the appearance of this charming page, whom she could notremember to have seen before. Thinking he might belong to the householdof the Duchess, she said:'How long have you been one of the King's pages?''I am not in the service of the King, madam,' answered he, 'but inyours.''In mine?' said the Princess with great surprise. 'Then how is it that Ihave never seen you before?''Ah, Princess!' said he, 'I have never before dared to present myself toyou, but now the King's marriage threatens you with so many dangers thatI have resolved to tell you at once how much I love you already, and Itrust that in time I may win your regard. I am Prince Percinet, of whoseriches you may have heard, and whose fairy gift will, I hope, be of useto you in all your difficulties, if you will permit me to accompany youunder this disguise.''Ah, Percinet!' cried the Princess, 'is it really you? I have so oftenheard of you and wished to see you. If you will indeed be my friend, Ishall not be afraid of that wicked old Duchess any more.'So they went back to the palace together, and there Graciosa found abeautiful horse which Percinet had brought for her to ride. As it wasvery spirited he led it by the bridle, and this arrangement enabled himto turn and look at the Princess often, which he did not fail to do.Indeed, she was so pretty that it was a real pleasure to look at her.When the horse which the Duchess was to ride appeared beside Graciosa's,it looked no better than an old cart horse, and as to their trappings,there was simply no comparison between them, as the Princess's saddleand bridle were one glittering mass of diamonds. The King had so manyother things to think of that he did not notice this, but all hiscourtiers were entirely taken up with admiring the Princess and hercharming Page in green, who was more handsome and distinguished lookingthan all the rest of the court put together.When they met the Duchess Grumbly she was seated in an open carriagetrying in vain to look dignified. The King and the Princess saluted her,and her horse was brought forward for her to mount. But when she sawGraciosa's she cried angrily:'If that child is to have a better horse than mine, I will go back to myown castle this very minute. What is the good of being a Queen if one isto be slighted like this?'Upon this the King commanded Graciosa to dismount and to beg the Duchessto honour her by mounting her horse. The Princess obeyed in silence, andthe Duchess, without looking at her or thanking her, scrambled up uponthe beautiful horse, where she sat looking like a bundle of clothes, andeight officers had to hold her up for fear she should fall off.Even then she was not satisfied, and was still grumbling and muttering,so they asked her what was the matter.'I wish that Page in green to come and lead the horse, as he did whenGraciosa rode it,' said she very sharply.And the King ordered the Page to come and lead the Queen's horse.Percinet and the Princess looked at one another, but said never a word,and then he did as the King commanded, and the procession started ingreat pomp. The Duchess was greatly elated, and as she sat there instate would not have wished to change places even with Graciosa. Butat the moment when it was least expected the beautiful horse began toplunge and rear and kick, and finally to run away at such a pace that itwas impossible to stop him.At first the Duchess clung to the saddle, but she was very soon thrownoff and fell in a heap among the stones and thorns, and there they foundher, shaken to a jelly, and collected what was left of her as if she hadbeen a broken glass. Her bonnet was here and her shoes there, her facewas scratched, and her fine clothes were covered with mud. Never was abride seen in such a dismal plight. They carried her back to the palaceand put her to bed, but as soon as she recovered enough to be able tospeak, she began to scold and rage, and declared that the whole affairwas Graciosa's fault, that she had contrived it on purpose to try andget rid of her, and that if the King would not have her punished, shewould go back to her castle and enjoy her riches by herself.At this the King was terribly frightened, for he did not at all want tolose all those barrels of gold and jewels. So he hastened to appease theDuchess, and told her she might punish Graciosa in any way she pleased.Thereupon she sent for Graciosa, who turned pale and trembled at thesummons, for she guessed that it promised nothing agreeable for her. Shelooked all about for Percinet, but he was nowhere to be seen. so she hadno choice but to go to the Duchess Grumbly's room. She had hardly gotinside the door when she was seized by four waiting women, who lookedso tall and strong and cruel that the Princess shuddered at the sightof them, and still more when she saw them arming themselves with greatbundles of rods, and heard the Duchess call out to them from her bedto beat the Princess without mercy. Poor Graciosa wished miserably thatPercinet could only know what was happening and come to rescue her.But no sooner did they begin to beat her than she found, to her greatrelief, that the rods had changed to bundles of peacock's feathers, andthough the Duchess's women went on till they were so tired that theycould no longer raise their arms from their sides, yet she was not hurtin the least. However, the Duchess thought she must be black and blueafter such a beating. so Graciosa, when she was released, pretended tofeel very bad, and went away into her own room, where she told hernurse all that had happened, and then the nurse left her, and when thePrincess turned round there stood Percinet beside her. She thanked himgratefully for helping her so cleverly, and they laughed and were verymerry over the way they had taken in the Duchess and her waiting maids.but Percinet advised her still to pretend to be ill for a few days,and after promising to come to her aid whenever she needed him, hedisappeared as suddenly as he had come.The Duchess was so delighted at the idea that Graciosa was reallyill, that she herself recovered twice as fast as she would have doneotherwise, and the wedding was held with great magnificence. Now as theKing knew that, above all other things, the Queen loved to be told thatshe was beautiful, he ordered that her portrait should be painted, andthat a tournament should be held, at which all the bravest knights ofhis court should maintain against all comers that Grumbly was the mostbeautiful princess in the world.Numbers of knights came from far and wide to accept the challenge, andthe hideous Queen sat in great state in a balcony hung with cloth ofgold to watch the contests, and Graciosa had to stand up behind her,where her loveliness was so conspicuous that the combatants could notkeep their eyes off her. But the Queen was so vain that she thought alltheir admiring glances were for herself, especially as, in spite of thebadness of their cause, the King's knights were so brave that they werethe victors in every combat.However, when nearly all the strangers had been defeated, a youngunknown knight presented himself. He carried a portrait, enclosed in abow encrusted with diamonds, and he declared himself willing to maintainagainst them all that the Queen was the ugliest creature in the world,and that the Princess whose portrait he carried was the most beautiful.So one by one the knights came out against him, and one by one hevanquished them all, and then he opened the box, and said that, toconsole them, he would show them the portrait of his Queen of Beauty,and when he did so everyone recognised the Princess Graciosa. Theunknown knight then saluted her gracefully and retired, without tellinghis name to anybody. But Graciosa had no difficulty in guessing that itwas Percinet.As to the Queen, she was so furiously angry that she could hardlyspeak. but she soon recovered her voice, and overwhelmed Graciosa with atorrent of reproaches.'What!' she said, 'do you dare to dispute with me for the prize ofbeauty, and expect me to endure this insult to my knights? But I willnot bear it, proud Princess. I will have my revenge.''I assure you, Madam,' said the Princess, 'that I had nothing to do withit and am quite willing that you shall be declared Queen of Beauty'Ah! you are pleased to jest, popinjay!' said the Queen, 'but it will bemy turn soon!'The King was speedily told what had happened, and how the Princess wasin terror of the angry Queen, but he only said: 'The Queen must do asshe pleases. Graciosa belongs to her!'The wicked Queen waited impatiently until night fell, and then sheordered her carriage to be brought. Graciosa, much against her will,was forced into it, and away they drove, and never stopped until theyreached a great forest, a hundred leagues from the palace. This forestwas so gloomy, and so full of lions, tigers, bears and wolves, thatnobody dared pass through it even by daylight, and here they set downthe unhappy Princess in the middle of the black night, and left her inspite of all her tears and entreaties. The Princess stood quite still atfirst from sheer bewilderment, but when the last sound of the retreatingcarriages died away in the distance she began to run aimlessly hitherand thither, sometimes knocking herself against a tree, sometimestripping over a stone, fearing every minute that she would be eaten upby the lions. Presently she was too tired to advance another step, soshe threw herself down upon the ground and cried miserably:'Oh, Percinet! where are you? Have you forgotten me altogether?'She had hardly spoken when all the forest was lighted up with a suddenglow. Every tree seemed to be sending out a soft radiance, which wasclearer than moonlight and softer than daylight, and at the end of along avenue of trees opposite to her the Princess saw a palace of clearcrystal which blazed like the sun. At that moment a slight sound behindher made her start round, and there stood Percinet himself.'Did I frighten you, my Princess?' said he. 'I come to bid you welcometo our fairy palace, in the name of the Queen, my mother, who isprepared to love you as much as I do.' The Princess joyfully mountedwith him into a little sledge, drawn by two stags, which bounded off anddrew them swiftly to the wonderful palace, where the Queen received herwith the greatest kindness, and a splendid banquet was served at once.Graciosa was so happy to have found Percinet, and to have escaped fromthe gloomy forest and all its terrors, that she was very hungry and verymerry, and they were a gay party. After supper they went into anotherlovely room, where the crystal walls were covered with pictures, and thePrincess saw with great surprise that her own history was represented,even down to the moment when Percinet found her in the forest.'Your painters must indeed be diligent,' she said, pointing out the lastpicture to the Prince.'They are obliged to be, for I will not have anything forgotten thathappens to you,' he answered.When the Princess grew sleepy, twenty four charming maidens put her tobed in the prettiest room she had ever seen, and then sang to her sosweetly that Graciosa's dreams were all of mermaids, and cool sea waves,and caverns, in which she wandered with Percinet. but when she woke upagain her first thought was that, delightful as this fairy palace seemedto her, yet she could not stay in it, but must go back to her father.When she had been dressed by the four and twenty maidens in a charmingrobe which the Queen had sent for her, and in which she lookedprettier than ever, Prince Percinet came to see her, and was bitterlydisappointed when she told him what she had been thinking. He begged herto consider again how unhappy the wicked Queen would make her, and how,if she would but marry him, all the fairy palace would be hers, and hisone thought would be to please her. But, in spite of everything he couldsay, the Princess was quite determined to go back, though he at lastpersuaded her to stay eight days, which were so full of pleasure andamusement that they passed like a few hours. On the last day, Graciosa,who had often felt anxious to know what was going on in her father'spalace, said to Percinet that she was sure that he could find out forher, if he would, what reason the Queen had given her father for hersudden disappearance. Percinet at first offered to send his courier tofind out, but the Princess said:'Oh! isn't there a quicker way of knowing than that?''Very well,' said Percinet, 'you shall see for yourself.'So up they went together to the top of a very high tower, which, likethe rest of the castle, was built entirely of rock crystal.There the Prince held Graciosa's hand in his, and made her put the tipof her little finger into her mouth, and look towards the town, andimmediately she saw the wicked Queen go to the King, and heard her sayto him, 'That miserable Princess is dead, and no great loss either. Ihave ordered that she shall be buried at once.'And then the Princess saw how she dressed up a log of wood and had itburied, and how the old King cried, and all the people murmured that theQueen had killed Graciosa with her cruelties, and that she ought to haveher head cut off. When the Princess saw that the King was so sorry forher pretended death that he could neither eat nor drink, she cried:'Ah, Percinet! take me back quickly if you love me.'And so, though he did not want to at all, he was obliged to promise thathe would let her go.'You may not regret me, Princess,' he said sadly, 'for I fear that youdo not love me well enough. but I foresee that you will more than onceregret that you left this fairy palace where we have been so happy.'But, in spite of all he could say, she bade farewell to the Queen, hismother, and prepared to set out. so Percinet, very unwillingly, broughtthe little sledge with the stags and she mounted beside him. But theyhad hardly gone twenty yards when a tremendous noise behind her madeGraciosa look back, and she saw the palace of crystal fly into a millionsplinters, like the spray of a fountain, and vanish.'Oh, Percinet!' she cried, 'what has happened? The palace is gone.''Yes,' he answered, 'my palace is a thing of the past. you will see itagain, but not until after you have been buried.''Now you are angry with me,' said Graciosa in her most coaxing voice,'though after all I am more to be pitied than you are.'When they got near the palace the Prince made the sledge and themselvesinvisible, so the Princess got in unobserved, and ran up to the greathall where the King was sitting all by himself. At first he was verymuch startled by Graciosa's sudden appearance, but she told him how theQueen had left her out in the forest, and how she had caused a logof wood to be buried. The King, who did not know what to think, sentquickly and had it dug up, and sure enough it was as the Princess hadsaid. Then he caressed Graciosa, and made her sit down to supper withhim, and they were as happy as possible. But someone had by this timetold the wicked Queen that Graciosa had come back, and was at supperwith the King, and in she flew in a terrible fury. The poor old Kingquite trembled before her, and when she declared that Graciosa was notthe Princess at all, but a wicked impostor, and that if the King did notgive her up at once she would go back to her own castle and never seehim again, he had not a word to say, and really seemed to believe thatit was not Graciosa after all. So the Queen in great triumph sent forher waiting women, who dragged the unhappy Princess away and shut herup in a garret. they took away all her jewels and her pretty dress, andgave her a rough cotton frock, wooden shoes, and a little cloth cap.There was some straw in a corner, which was all she had for a bed, andthey gave her a very little bit of black bread to eat. In this miserableplight Graciosa did indeed regret the fairy palace, and she would havecalled Percinet to her aid, only she felt sure he was still vexed withher for leaving him, and thought that she could not expect him to come.Meanwhile the Queen had sent for an old Fairy, as malicious as herself,and said to her:'You must find me some task for this fine Princess which she cannotpossibly do, for I mean to punish her, and if she does not do what Iorder, she will not be able to say that I am unjust.' So the old Fairysaid she would think it over, and come again the next day. When shereturned she brought with her a skein of thread, three times as bigas herself. it was so fine that a breath of air would break it, and sotangled that it was impossible to see the beginning or the end of it.The Queen sent for Graciosa, and said to her:'Do you see this skein? Set your clumsy fingers to work upon it, for Imust have it disentangled by sunset, and if you break a single threadit will be the worse for you.' So saying she left her, locking the doorbehind her with three keys.The Princess stood dismayed at the sight of the terrible skein. Ifshe did but turn it over to see where to begin, she broke a thousandthreads, and not one could she disentangle. At last she threw it intothe middle of the floor, crying:'Oh, Percinet! this fatal skein will be the death of me if you will notforgive me and help me once more.'And immediately in came Percinet as easily as if he had all the keys inhis own possession.'Here I am, Princess, as much as ever at your service,' said he, 'thoughreally you are not very kind to me.'Then he just stroked the skein with his wand, and all the broken threadsjoined themselves together, and the whole skein wound itself smoothlyoff in the most surprising manner, and the Prince, turning to Graciosa,asked if there was nothing else that she wished him to do for her, andif the time would never come when she would wish for him for his ownsake.'Don't be vexed with me, Percinet,' she said. 'I am unhappy enoughwithout that.''But why should you be unhappy, my Princess?' cried he. 'Only come withme and we shall be as happy as the day is long together.''But suppose you get tired of me?' said Graciosa.The Prince was so grieved at this want of confidence that he left herwithout another word.The wicked Queen was in such a hurry to punish Graciosa that she thoughtthe sun would never set. and indeed it was before the appointed timethat she came with her four Fairies, and as she fitted the three keysinto the locks she said:'I'll venture to say that the idle minx has not done anything atall she prefers to sit with her hands before her to keep them white.'But, as soon as she entered, Graciosa presented her with the ball ofthread in perfect order, so that she had no fault to find, and couldonly pretend to discover that it was soiled, for which imaginary faultshe gave Graciosa a blow on each cheek, that made her white and pinkskin turn green and yellow. And then she sent her back to be locked intothe garret once more.Then the Queen sent for the Fairy again and scolded her furiously.'Don't make such a mistake again. find me something that it will bequite impossible for her to do,' she said.So the next day the Fairy appeared with a huge barrel full of thefeathers of all sorts of birds. There were nightingales, canaries,goldfinches, linnets, tomtits, parrots, owls, sparrows, doves,ostriches, bustards, peacocks, larks, partridges, and everythingelse that you can think of. These feathers were all mixed up in suchconfusion that the birds themselves could not have chosen out their own.'Here,' said the Fairy, 'is a little task which it will take all yourprisoner's skill and patience to accomplish. Tell her to pick out andlay in a separate heap the feathers of each bird. She would need to be afairy to do it.'The Queen was more than delighted at the thought of the despair thistask would cause the Princess. She sent for her, and with the samethreats as before locked her up with the three keys, ordering that allthe feathers should be sorted by sunset. Graciosa set to work at once,but before she had taken out a dozen feathers she found that it wasperfectly impossible to know one from another.'Ah! well,' she sighed, 'the Queen wishes to kill me, and if I must dieI must. I cannot ask Percinet to help me again, for if he really lovedme he would not wait till I called him, he would come without that.''I am here, my Graciosa,' cried Percinet, springing out of the barrelwhere he had been hiding. 'How can you still doubt that I love you withall my heart?'Then he gave three strokes of his wand upon the barrel, and all thefeathers flew out in a cloud and settled down in neat little separateheaps all round the room.'What should I do without you, Percinet?' said Graciosa gratefully. Butstill she could not quite make up her mind to go with him and leave herfather's kingdom for ever. so she begged him to give her more time tothink of it, and he had to go away disappointed once more.When the wicked Queen came at sunset she was amazed and infuriated tofind the task done. However, she complained that the heaps of featherswere badly arranged, and for that the Princess was beaten and sent backto her garret. Then the Queen sent for the Fairy once more, and scoldedher until she was fairly terrified, and promised to go home and think ofanother task for Graciosa, worse than either of the others.At the end of three days she came again, bringing with her a box.'Tell your slave,' said he, 'to carry this wherever you please, but onno account to open it. She will not be able to help doing so, and thenyou will be quite satisfied with the result.' So the Queen came toGraciosa, and said:'Carry this box to my castle, and place it upon the table in my ownroom. But I forbid you on pain of death to look at what it contains.'Graciosa set out, wearing her little cap and wooden shoes and the oldcotton frock, but even in this disguise she was so beautiful that allthe passers by wondered who she could be. She had not gone far beforethe heat of the sun and the weight of the box tired her so much that shesat down to rest in the shade of a little wood which lay on one side ofa green meadow. She was carefully holding the box upon her lap when shesuddenly felt the greatest desire to open it.'What could possibly happen if I did?' she said to herself. 'I shouldnot take anything out. I should only just see what was there.'And without farther hesitation she lifted the cover.Instantly out came swarms of little men and women, no taller thanher finger, and scattered themselves all over the meadow, singing anddancing, and playing the merriest games, so that at first Graciosa wasdelighted and watched them with much amusement. But presently, whenshe was rested and wished to go on her way, she found that, do what shewould, she could not get them back into their box. If she chased themin the meadow they fled into the wood, and if she pursued them into thewood they dodged round trees and behind sprigs of moss, and with pealsof elfin laughter scampered back again into the meadow.At last, weary and terrified, she sat down and cried.'It is my own fault,' she said sadly. 'Percinet, if you can still carefor such an imprudent Princess, do come and help me once more.'Immediately Percinet stood before her.'Ah, Princess!' he said, 'but for the wicked Queen I fear you wouldnever think of me at all.''Indeed I should,' said Graciosa. 'I am not so ungrateful as you think.Only wait a little and I believe I shall love you quite dearly.'Percinet was pleased at this, and with one stroke of his wand compelledall the wilful little people to come back to their places in the box,and then rendering the Princess invisible he took her with him in hischariot to the castle.When the Princess presented herself at the door, and said that the Queenhad ordered her to place the box in her own room, the governor laughedheartily at the idea.'No, no, my little shepherdess,' said he, 'that is not the place foryou. No wooden shoes have ever been over that floor yet.'Then Graciosa begged him to give her a written message telling the Queenthat he had refused to admit her. This he did, and she went back toPercinet, who was waiting for her, and they set out together for thepalace. You may imagine that they did not go the shortest way, butthe Princess did not find it too long, and before they parted she hadpromised that if the Queen was still cruel to her, and tried again toplay her any spiteful trick, she would leave her and come to Percinetfor ever.When the Queen saw her returning she fell upon the Fairy, whom she hadkept with her, and pulled her hair, and scratched her face, and wouldreally have killed her if a Fairy could be killed. And when the Princesspresented the letter and the box she threw them both upon the firewithout opening them, and looked very much as if she would like to throwthe Princess after them. However, what she really did do was to havea great hole as deep as a well dug in her garden, and the top of itcovered with a flat stone. Then she went and walked near it, and said toGraciosa and all her ladies who were with her:'I am told that a great treasure lies under that stone. let us see if wecan lift it.'So they all began to push and pull at it, and Graciosa among the others,which was just what the Queen wanted. for as soon as the stone waslifted high enough, she gave the Princess a push which sent her down tothe bottom of the well, and then the stone was let fall again, and thereshe was a prisoner. Graciosa felt that now indeed she was hopelesslylost, surely not even Percinet could find her in the heart of the earth.'This is like being buried alive,' she said with a shudder. 'Oh,Percinet! if you only knew how I am suffering for my want of trust inyou! But how could I be sure that you would not be like other men andtire of me from the moment you were sure I loved you?'As she spoke she suddenly saw a little door open, and the sunshineblazed into the dismal well. Graciosa did not hesitate an instant, butpassed through into a charming garden. Flowers and fruit grew on everyside, fountains plashed, and birds sang in the branches overhead, andwhen she reached a great avenue of trees and looked up to see where itwould lead her, she found herself close to the palace of crystal. Yes!there was no mistaking it, and the Queen and Percinet were coming tomeet her.'Ah, Princess!' said the Queen, 'don't keep this poor Percinet insuspense any longer. You little guess the anxiety he has suffered whileyou were in the power of that miserable Queen.'The Princess kissed her gratefully, and promised to do as she wishedin everything, and holding out her hand to Percinet, with a smile, shesaid:'Do you remember telling me that I should not see your palace againuntil I had been buried? I wonder if you guessed then that, when thathappened, I should tell you that I love you with all my heart, and willmarry you whenever you like?'Prince Percinet joyfully took the hand that was given him, and, for fearthe Princess should change her mind, the wedding was held at once withthe greatest splendour, and Graciosa and Percinet lived happily everafter.(11)(11) Gracieuse et Percinet. Mdme. d'Aulnoy.