On the right bank of the river Mlava, near the village of Krepoljin, issituated a very high hill, Gradatr (Fort) by name, on which one cansee the ruins of an old disabled and deserted fort. The popular traditionsays that it was once a Roman or Latin fort. The Romans who occupied thisfort were very bellicose people. Their leader ordered all the holders ofthe fort up to forty years of age to be active fighters, from forty tofifty to be guards of the fort, and after fifty to be killed, because theyhave no military value. Since that period the old men were killed.An old man who was nearing his fiftieth year had a grandson who wasvery fond of him. On the eve of the day on which the old man was orderedto be killed, the enemy attacked the fort. The grandson used thisopportunity and forced his grandfather to fly. The old man fled and hidhimself in a cave which was in the neighborhood. After the enemy weredispersed, and when the people looked for the old man, they could not findhim.Some time after, the leader commanded them to be ready to go to war inadistant land.At the moment when the army was prepared to start, thegrandfather appeared secretly to his grandson and said to him, "For thislong way ride a mare which has a colt, and when you come to an unknownland, kill the colt, and then go farther. God protect you! Farewell!"The grandson obeyed the orders of his grandfather, rode a mare with acolt and went with the leader and his army to the war. They went for threedays and then they came to a river, on the opposite side of which was adense forest. The young man looked on all sides and was sure that he wasin a perfectly unknown land. Then he secretly killed the colt. Crossingthe river the army marched through the forest. After six days of travelingthey came to a vast plain, where they found the enemy waiting for them.The fight was very severe, and at the end the leader and his army weredefeated and forced to flee. The vanquished army did not know the way, butthe mare of the young man went in the direction where her colt was lostand so led them to the river, from which they knew the way to their owncountry.Everybody was astonished, and the leader asked the young man who taughthim to act so, and he, after some hesitation, told him that it was hisgrandfather. When they came home the leader invited the old man,recognized his cleverness, and ordered that further on the old men shouldnot be killed, but respected, because they knew much more than the youngmen.