Once upon a time there was a man whose name was Gudbrand. He had a farmwhich lay far, far away upon a hillside, and so they called him Gudbrandon the Hillside.Now, you must know that this man and his wife lived so happilytogether, and understood one another so well, that all the husband did thewife thought so well done, that there was nothing like it in the world,and she was always glad whatever he turned his hand to. The farm was theirown land, and they had a hundred dollars lying at the bottom of theirchest, and two cows tethered up in a stall in their farmyard.So one day his wife said to Gudbrand, "Do you know, dear, I think weought to take one of our cows into town and sell it. That's what I think,for then we shall have some money in hand, and such well to do people aswe ought to have ready money like the rest of the world. As for thehundred dollars at the bottom of the chest over there, we can't make ahole in them, and I'm sure I don't know what we want with more than onecow. Besides, we shall gain a little in another way, for then I shall getoff with only looking after one cow, instead of having, as now, to feedand litter and water two."Well, Gudbrand thought his wife talked right good sense, so he set offat once with the cow on his way to town to sell her. But when he got tothe town, there was no one who would buy his cow."Well, well! Never mind," said Gudbrand. "At the worst, I can only goback home again with my cow. I've both stable and tether for her, I shouldthink, and the road is no farther out than in," and with that he began totoddle home with his cow.But when he had gone a bit of the way, a man met him who had a horse tosell, so Gudbrand thought it was better to have a horse than a cow, so heswapped with the man. A little farther on he met a man walking along anddriving a fat pig before him, and he thought it better to have a fat pigthan a horse, so he swapped with the man. After that he went a littlefarther, and a man met him with a goat. so he thought it better to have agoat than a pig, and he swapped with the man that owned the goat. Then hewent on a good bit till he met a man who had a sheep, and he swapped withhim too, for he thought it always better to have a sheep than a goat.After a while he met a man with a goose, and he swapped away the sheep forthe goose. And when he had walked a long, long time, he met a man with arooster, and he swapped with him, for he thought in this wise, "It issurely better to have a rooster than a goose." Then he went on till theday was far spent, and he began to get very hungry, so he sold the roosterfor a shilling, and bought food with the money, for, thought Gudbrand onthe Hillside, "It is always better to save one's life than to have arooster."After that he went on toward home till he reached his nearestneighbor's house, where he turned in."Well," said the owner of the house, "how did things go with you intown?""Rather so so," said Gudbrand. "I can't praise my luck, nor do I blameit either," and with that he told the whole story from first to last."Ah!" said his friend, "you'll get nicely called over the coals, thatone can see, when you get home to your wife. Heaven help you. I wouldn'tstand in your shoes for anything.""Well," said Gudbrand on the Hillside, "I think things might have gonemuch worse with me. But now, whether I have done wrong or not, I have sokind a wife, she never has a word to say against anything that I do.""Oh!" answered his neighbor, "I hear what you say, but I don't believeit for all that.""Shall we lay a bet upon it?" asked Gudbrand on the Hillside. "I have ahundred dollars at the bottom of my chest at home. Will you lay as manyagainst them?"Yes, the friend was ready to bet, so Gudbrand stayed there tillevening, when it began to get dark, and then they went together to hishouse, and the neighbor was to stand outside the door and listen, whilethe man went in to see his wife."Good evening!" said Gudbrand on the Hillside."Good evening!" said the wife. "Oh, is that you? Now God bepraised."Yes, it was he. So the wife asked how things had gone with him intown."Oh, only so so," answered Gudbrand. "Not much to brag of. When I gotto town there was no one who would buy the cow, so you must know I swappedit away for a horse.""For a horse," said his wife. "Well, that is good of you. Thanks withall my heart. We are so well to do that we may drive to church just aswell as other people, and if we choose to have a horse, we have a right toget one, I should think. So run out, child, and put up the horse.""Ah!" said Gudbrand, "but you see, I've not got the horse after all,for when I got a bit farther down the road, I swapped it away for apig.""Think of that, now!" said the wife. "You did just as I should havedone myself. A thousand thanks! Now I can have a bit of bacon in the houseto set before people when they come to see me, that I can. What do we wantwith a horse? People would only say we had got so proud that we couldn'twalk to church. Go out, child, and put up the pig in the sty.""But I've not got the pig either," said Gudbrand, "for when I got alittle farther on I swapped it away for a milk goat.""Bless us!" cried his wife, "How well you manage everything! Now Ithink it over, what should I do with a pig? People would only point at usand say, 'Yonder they eat up all they have got.' No! Now I have got agoat, and I shall have milk and cheese, and keep the goat too. Run out,child, and put up the goat.""No, but I haven't got the goat either," said Gudbrand, "for a littlefarther on I swapped it away, and got a fine sheep instead.""You don't say so!" cried his wife. "Why, you do everything to pleaseme, just as if I had been with you. What do we want with a goat? If I hadit I should lose half my time in climbing up the hills to bring it in. No!If I have a sheep, I shall have both wool and clothing, and fresh meat inthe house. Run out, child, and put up the sheep.""But I haven't got the sheep any more than the rest," said Gudbrand,"for when I had gone a bit farther I swapped it away for a goose.""Thank you! Thank you, with all my heart!" cried his wife. "What shouldI do with a sheep? I have no spinning wheel nor carding comb, nor should Icare to worry myself with cutting, and shaping, and sewing clothes. We canbuy clothes now, as we have always done. and now I shall have roast goose,which I have longed for so often. and, besides, down to stuff my littlepillow with. Run out, child, and put up the goose.""Ah!" said Gudbrand, "but I haven't the goose either, for when I hadgone a bit farther I swapped it away for a rooster.""Dear me!" cried his wife. "How you think of everything! Just as Ishould have done myself. A rooster! Think of that! Why it's as good as aneight day clock, for every morning the rooster crows at four o'clock, andwe shall be able to stir ourselves in good time. What should we do with agoose? I don't know how to cook it, and as for my pillow, I can stuff itwith grass. Run out, child, and put up the rooster.""But after all I haven't got the rooster," said Gudbrand, "for when Ihad gone a bit farther, I got as hungry as a hunter, so I was forced tosell the rooster for a shilling, for fear I should starve.""Now, God be praised that you did so!" cried his wife. "Whatever youdo, you do it always just after my own heart. What should we do with therooster? We are our own masters, I should think, and can lie in bed in themorning as long as we like. Heaven be thanked that I have got you safelyback again, you who do everything so well that I want neither rooster norgoose, neither pigs nor cows."Then Gudbrand opened the door and said, "Well, what do you say now?Have I won the hundred dollars?"And his neighbor was forced to admit that he had.