Once upon a time there lived two peasants who had three daughters, and,as generally happens, the youngest was the most beautiful and the besttempered, and when her sisters wanted to go out she was always ready tostay at home and do their work.Years passed quickly with the whole family, and one day the parentssuddenly perceived that all three girls were grown up, and that verysoon they would be thinking of marriage.'Have you decided what your husband's name is to be?' said the father,laughingly, to his eldest daughter, one evening when they were allsitting at the door of their cottage. 'You know that is a very importantpoint!''Yes. I will never wed any man who is not called Sigmund,' answered she.'Well, it is lucky for you that there are a great many Sigmunds inthis part of the world,' replied her father, 'so that you can take yourchoice! And what do YOU say?' he added, turning to the second.'Oh, I think that there is no name so beautiful as Sigurd,' cried she.'Then you won't be an old maid either,' answered he. 'There are sevenSigurds in the next village alone! And you, Helga?'Helga, who was still the prettiest of the three, looked up. She also hadher favourite name, but, just as she was going to say it, she seemed tohear a voice whisper: 'Marry no one who is not called Habogi.'The girl had never heard of such a name, and did not like it, so shedetermined to pay no attention. but as she opened her mouth to tell herfather that her husband must be called Njal, she found herself answeringinstead: 'If I do marry it will be to no one except Habogi.''Who IS Habogi?' asked her father and sisters. 'We never heard of such aperson.''All I can tell you is that he will be my husband, if ever I have one,'returned Helga. and that was all she would say.Before very long the young men who lived in the neighbouring villagesor on the sides of the mountains, had heard of this talk of the threegirls, and Sigmunds and Sigurds in scores came to visit the littlecottage. There were other young men too, who bore different names,though not one of them was called 'Habogi,' and these thought that theymight perhaps gain the heart of the youngest. But though there was morethan one 'Njal' amongst them, Helga's eyes seemed always turned anotherway.At length the two elder sisters made their choice from out of theSigurds and the Sigmunds, and it was decided that both weddings shouldtake place at the same time. Invitations were sent out to the friendsand relations, and when, on the morning of the great day, they were allassembled, a rough, coarse old peasant left the crowd and came up to thebrides' father.'My name is Habogi, and Helga must be my wife,' was all he said. Andthough Helga stood pale and trembling with surprise, she did not try torun away.'I cannot talk of such things just now,' answered the father, who couldnot bear the thought of giving his favourite daughter to this horribleold man, and hoped, by putting it off, that something might happen. Butthe sisters, who had always been rather jealous of Helga, were secretlypleased that their bridegrooms should outshine hers.When the feast was over, Habogi led up a beautiful horse from a fieldwhere he had left it to graze, and bade Helga jump up on its splendidsaddle, all embroidered in scarlet and gold. 'You shall come backagain,' said he. 'but now you must see the house that you are to livein.' And though Helga was very unwilling to go, something inside herforced her to obey.The old man settled her comfortably, then sprang up in front of her aseasily as if he had been a boy, and, shaking the reins, they were soonout of sight.After some miles they rode through a meadow with grass so green thatHelga's eyes felt quite dazzled. and feeding on the grass were aquantity of large fat sheep, with the curliest and whitest wool in theworld.'What lovely sheep! whose are they?' cried Helga.'Your Habogi's,' answered he, 'all that you see belongs to him. but thefinest sheep in the whole herd, which has little golden bells hangingbetween its horns, you shall have for yourself.'This pleased Helga very much, for she had never had anything of her own.and she smiled quite happily as she thanked Habogi for his present.They soon left the sheep behind them, and entered a large field witha river running through it, where a number of beautiful grey cows werestanding by a gate waiting for a milk maid to come and milk them.'Oh, what lovely cows!' cried Helga again. 'I am sure their milk must besweeter than any other cows. How I should like to have some! I wonder towhom they belong?''To your Habogi,' replied he. 'and some day you shall have as much milkas you like, but we cannot stop now. Do you see that big grey one, withthe silver bells between her horns? That is to be yours, and you canhave her milked every morning the moment you wake.'And Helga's eyes shone, and though she did not say anything, she thoughtthat she would learn to milk the cow herself.A mile further on they came to a wide common, with short, springy turf,where horses of all colours, with skins of satin, were kicking up theirheels in play. The sight of them so delighted Helga that she nearlysprang from her saddle with a shriek of joy.'Whose are they?' Oh! whose are they?' she asked. 'How happy any manmust be who is the master of such lovely creatures!''They are your Habogi's,' replied he, 'and the one which you think themost beautiful of all you shall have for yourself, and learn to ridehim.'At this Helga quite forgot the sheep and the cow.'A horse of my own!' said she. 'Oh, stop one moment, and let me seewhich I will choose. The white one? No. The chestnut? No. I think, afterall, I like the coal black one best, with the little white star on hisforehead. Oh, do stop, just for a minute.'But Habogi would not stop or listen. 'When you are married you will haveplenty of time to choose one,' was all he answered, and they rode on twoor three miles further.At length Habogi drew rein before a small house, very ugly andmean looking, and that seemed on the point of tumbling to pieces.'This is my house, and is to be yours,' said Habogi, as he jumped downand held out his arms to lift Helga from the horse. The girl's heartsank a little, as she thought that the man who possessed such wonderfulsheep, and cows, and horses, might have built himself a prettier placeto live in. but she did not say so. And, taking her arm, he led her upthe steps.But when she got inside, she stood quite bewildered at the beauty of allaround her. None of her friends owned such things, not even the miller,who was the richest man she knew. There were carpets everywhere, thickand soft, and of deep rich colours. and the cushions were of silk, andmade you sleepy even to look at them. and curious little figures inchina were scattered about. Helga felt as if it would take her all herlife to see everything properly, and it only seemed a second since shehad entered the house, when Habogi came up to her.'I must begin the preparations for our wedding at once,' he said. 'butmy foster brother will take you home, as I promised. In three days hewill bring you back here, with your parents and sisters, and any guestsyou may invite, in your company. By that time the feast will be ready.'Helga had so much to think about, that the ride home appeared veryshort. Her father and mother were delighted to see her, as they did notfeel sure that so ugly and cross looking a man as Habogi might not haveplayed her some cruel trick. And after they had given her some supperthey begged her to tell them all she had done. But Helga only told themthat they should see for themselves on the third day, when they wouldcome to her wedding.It was very early in the morning when the party set out, and Helga'stwo sisters grew green with envy as they passed the flocks of sheep,and cows, and horses, and heard that the best of each was given to Helgaherself. but when they caught sight of the poor little house which wasto be her home their hearts grew light again.'I should be ashamed of living in such a place,' whispered each to theother. and the eldest sister spoke of the carved stone over HER doorway,and the second boasted of the number of rooms SHE had. But the momentthey went inside they were struck dumb with rage at the splendour ofeverything, and their faces grew white and cold with fury when theysaw the dress which Habogi had prepared for his bride a dress thatglittered like sunbeams dancing upon ice.'She SHALL not look so much finer than us,' they cried passionately toeach other as soon as they were alone. and when night came they stoleout of their rooms, and taking out the wedding dress, they laid it inthe ash pit, and heaped ashes upon it. But Habogi, who knew a littlemagic, and had guessed what they would do, changed the ashes into roses,and cast a spell over the sisters, so that they could not leave the spotfor a whole day, and every one who passed by mocked at them.The next morning when they all awoke the ugly tumble down house haddisappeared, and in its place stood a splendid palace. The guests' eyessought in vain for the bridegroom, but could only see a handsome youngman, with a coat of blue velvet and silver and a gold crown upon hishead.'Who is that?' they asked Helga.'That is my Habogi,' said she.