Once upon a time there was a woman who had no children. She was so unhappy about this that one day she prayed to God, "Dear God, give me a child, even if it were only half a child."Then God gave her a boy with half a head, half a nose, half a mouth, half a body, one hand and one foot. He was so misshapen that the mother always kept him at home and did not send him out to work.One day, however, he became bored, and he said to his mother, "Mother, I do not want to stay at home any longer. Give me an ax and a mule. I want to go out into the woods to fetch wood."His mother replied, "How can you chop wood, dear child? You are only half a person."Nonetheless, he begged so long that finally his mother gave him an ax and a mule. He took these into the woods. He chopped wood and brought it back home. He did this work so well that his mother allowed him to continue.One day when he was fetching wood he passed by the princess's castle. When she saw him with one foot and one arm sitting on the mule she laughed out loud and called to her maidservants, "Come and see the half man!"This embarrassed Halfman so much that he dropped his ax. He thought for a moment, then asked himself, "Shall I get off and pick it up, or shall I not?"In the end he did not get off, but instead left the ax lying there rode on.The princess said to the maidservants, "Just look at Halfman! He drops his ax and doesn't even get off to pick it up!"This embarrassed Halfman even more, and he dropped his rope. Once again he thought for a moment, then said to himself, "Shall I get off and pick up the rope, or shall I not?"In the end he rode off, leaving the rope lying there.With that the princess called to her maidservants, "Just look at Halfman! He drops his ax and his rope and doesn't even get off to pick them up!"Halfman rode on to the place where he was gathering wood, but arriving there he said to himself, "How can I chop wood, and how can I tie it together?"A lake was there, and while he stood there looking into the water he saw a fish swim up to the bank. He quickly threw his ragged coat onto it and caught it.The fish begged for its life, saying, "Let me loose, Halfman, and I will teach you a charm to make all your wishes come true."Then Halfman said, "If what you say is true, then load my mule with wood."The fish said, "By the first word of God and the second word of the fish, the mule shall be loaded with wood!"And behold, before he finished speaking this charm, the mule was loaded with wood.Seeing this, Halfman said to the fish, "If you will teach me the charm I will set you free."The fish said, "Whenever you want something to happen, just say, 'By the first word of God and the second word of the fish,' and whatever you wish for shall be granted."With that Halfman set the fish free, took his loaded mule, and walked off toward the princess's castle.When the princess saw him she called to her maidservants, "Come quickly and see how Halfman has loaded his mule without an ax or a rope." Then they all laughed until they could laugh no more.This made Halfman angry, and he said, "By the first word of God and the second word of the fish, let the princess become pregnant!"When her time came she bore a child, and no one knew who the father was.Her father summoned her and asked her who the father was, but she answered repeatedly, "I have not even spoken with a man. I do not know where the child came from."When the child was older the king summoned everyone to his capitol. After they had all gathered there he gave the child an apple and said, "Go forth and give this to your father."While the child was walking about and playing with the apple, he dropped it onto the ground, and it rolled away from him, finally coming to a rest in the corner where Halfman was standing. The child bent over to pick up the apple, then lifting his head he saw Halfman and said, "Here Papa! Take the apple!"Hearing this, the people took hold of Halfman and brought him before the king.The king said, "Because it was Halfman who did this, we must kill them all: him, the princess, and the child."However, some of his councilors said to him, "What you say is unjust. The princess is your daughter, and you cannot shed your own blood. It would be better to make an iron cask, put the princess, Halfman, and the child inside, and throw them into the sea. Give them only a bunch of figs for the child, so that it will not die too quickly."This advice pleased the king. Thus he had the cask made, the three placed inside, and thrown into the sea.Now seated inside the cask, the princess said to Halfman, "I have never seen you before. How is it that we are now here together?""Give me a fig," replied Halfman, "and I will tell you about it."The princess gave him a fig from those that they had brought along for the child. After he had eaten it, Halfman said, "Don't you remember how you laughed at me when I passed by the castle, and I dropped my ax and my rope?""Yes, I remember that," replied the princess."Now I know a charm, and when I repeat it my every wish is fulfilled. At that time I wished that you should become pregnant, and that is why you became pregnant."To that the princess said, "If you know such a charm that fulfills your every wish, then wish us out of this cask and onto dry land."Halfman replied, "Give me a fig, and I will do so."So the princess gave him a fig, and he secretly said, "By the first word of God and the second word of the fish, may this cask drift onto dry land and open itself so that we can get out."And immediately the cask hit dry land, opened itself, and they all got out.It was raining outside, and the princess said, "Speak your charm so that we can find shelter and not get wet."Halfman said, "Give me a fig, and I will do so."So the princess gave him a fig, and he said to himself, "By the first word of God and the second word of the fish, let there be shelter here!"Suddenly such was the case, and they got under it.The princess said to Halfman, "Until now you have done very well! Now speak your charm and give us a large castle whose stones and timbers and furnishings all can speak."Halfman said, "Give me a fig, and I will do so."So the princess gave him a fig, and he said to himself, "By the first word of God and the second word of the fish, let there be castle whose stones and timbers and furnishings all can speak!"Suddenly such a castle was there, and everything connected to it could speak, and they went inside to live there, and Halfman brought forth everything that they needed and whatever the princess wished for herself.One day the king was out hunting, and he saw in the distance a castle that he had never seen before. He sent two of his servants thither, saying to them, "Take these partridges, go to that castle and broil them there, and see what kind of castle it is, for I have often been here hunting, but I have never before noticed it."The servants, thus commanded by the king, took the partridges and went to the castle. When they approached the outer door, it said to them, "What do you want here?"They said, "The king sent us here to broil these two partridges."The door replied, "Stay here. First I must ask the lady of the house."Then the outer door asked the first inner door, which in turn asked the second one, which in turn asked the third one, and so on, door to door, until the question reached the lady of the house. She ordered that the strangers be admitted, and suddenly all the doors opened by themselves, allowing the servants to come inside. They were greatly amazed when even the stones and the timbers welcomed them.Entering the kitchen one of them said, "Where can we find some wood?"The pieces of wood called out, "Here we are!"Then they said to one another, "We have no salt and no butter," to which the salt and butter called out, "Here we are!"After they had prepared the partridges, put them on the spit, and placed them next to the fire, they wanted to look around outside the kitchen to see if there were other things in the castle that could speak. However, they found so many such things and stayed away from the kitchen so long that the partridges had burned to charcoal when they finally thought about them and ran back to the kitchen.They did not know how they could excuse themselves to the king for having burned up his partridges. Finally they decided to go directly back to him and tell him what they had seen.The king did not believe them, and he sent other servants thither. They experienced the same things that the first ones had, and when the king heard them say the same thing, he decided that he would go there himself to see and hear with his own eyes and ears.When he arrived at the outside door, it said to him, "Welcome, your majesty!"When he went inside, all the stones and timbers called out the same welcome to him, and the king was amazed that here wood and stones could talk. Hearing that the king himself had arrived, the princess went to him to receive him. She led him into her splendid rooms, but did not tell him who she was. The king wondered about her correct manners and her elegant speech.Meanwhile the servants in the kitchen wanted to broil the partridges that the king had brought, and the same thing happened to them that had happened to the others. Amazed at all they saw and heard, they let the partridges burn to charcoal.When the king learned of this he became extremely angry, for he was very hungry and now had nothing to eat.The princess said, "I beg of your majesty to do us the favor of dining in our humble house."The king accepted, and she left him in order to look for Halfman, who had sneaked away from the king. Finding him, she said, "I invited the king to eat with us. Now speak a charm to provide a splendid feast with the appropriate servants, musicians, dancers, and everything else to go with it."To this Halfman said, "Give me a fig, and I will speak the charm."So the princess gave him a fig, and after he had eaten it he spoke the charm, asking for everything that the princess wanted, and suddenly a feast appeared, with everything that went with it.As soon as the king and his servants were seated at the table the musicians began to play, and they played so beautifully that the king was amazed. He said, "I am a king, but I have never had such music in my castle."Then the dancers began to dance, and they danced so beautifully that the king said to the princess, "I am a king, but I have never had such dancers in my castle. Tell me how you came to them."The princess replied, "My father left them to me as an inheritance."Then the princess went to Halfman and said, "You must speak a charm that will put a spoon into one of the king's boots."Halfman replied, "Give me a fig and I will do so."The princess gave him a fig, and he spoke the charm, granting the princess's wish.When the king was about to depart, the princes said, "Wait a moment. I believe that something is missing."This disturbed the king, who said, "No, that is not possible. We are not such people!"But the princess would not be dissuaded. She called out, "Are you platters all there?""Yes!""Are you plates all there?""Yes!""Are you spoons all there?"With that the spoon inside the king's boot called out, "I am stuck in the king's boot!"Now the princess began to scold the king, saying, "I invited you into my house, prepared a feast for you, and granted you every honor, and now your are stealing one of my spoons! Are you not ashamed of yourself?"The king said, "This is not possible! Someone put the spoon into my boot! You are doing me a severe injustice!"To that the princess said, "You also did such an injustice to me when you put Halfman and me into a cask, although I had done nothing wrong."The king stood there a long time, speechless with amazement. Then the princess brought Halfman to him, and Halfman explained everything that had happened.The king was amazed at this tale. He took his daughter back home with him and married her to one of his noblemen. He appointed Halfman to be his chief bodyguard and gave him his most beautiful slave girl for a wife.