Once upon a time there was a peasant who had money and land enough,but as rich as he was, there was still something missing from hishappiness: He had no children with his wife. Often when he went to thecity with the other peasants, they would mock him and ask him why he hadno children. He finally became angry, and when he returned home, he said,"I will have a child, even if it is a hedgehog."Then his wife had a baby, and the top half was a hedgehog and thebottom half a boy. When she saw the baby, she was horrified and said, "Nowsee what you have wished upon us!"The man said, "It cannot be helped. The boy must be baptized, but wecannot ask anyone to be his godfather."The woman said, "And the only name that we can give him isHans My Hedgehog."When he was baptized, the pastor said, "Because of his quills he cannotbe given an ordinary bed." So they put a little straw behind the stove andlaid him in it. And he could not drink from his mother, for he would havestuck her with his quills. He lay there behind the stove for eight years,and his father grew tired of him, and thought, "if only he would die." Buthe did not die, but just lay there.Now it happened that there was a fair in the city, and the peasantwanted to go. He asked his wife what he should bring her."A little meat, some bread rolls, and things for the household," shesaid. Then he asked the servant girl, and she wanted a pair of slippersand some fancy stockings.Finally, he also said, "Hans My Hedgehog, what would you like?""Father," he said, "bring me some bagpipes."When the peasant returned home he gave his wife what he had brought forher, meat and bread rolls. Then he gave the servant girl the slippers andfancy stockings. And finally he went behind the stove and gaveHans My Hedgehog the bagpipes.When Hans My Hedgehog had them, he said, "Father, go to theblacksmith's and have my cock rooster shod, then I will ride away andnever again come back." The father was happy to get rid of him, so he hadhis rooster shod, and when it was done, Hans My Hedgehog climbed on it androde away. He took pigs and donkeys with him, to tend in the forest.In the forest the rooster flew into a tall tree with him. There he satand watched over the donkeys and the pigs. He sat there for years, untilfinally the herd had grown large. His father knew nothing about him. Whilesitting in the tree, he played his bagpipes and made beautiful music.One day a king came by. He was lost and heard the music. He was amazedto hear it, and sent a servant to look around and see where it was comingfrom. He looked here and there but only saw a little animal sitting highin a tree. It looked like a rooster up there with a hedgehog sitting on itmaking the music.The king said to the servant that he should ask him why he was sittingthere, and if he knew the way back to his kingdom. Then Hans My Hedgehogclimbed down from the tree and told him that he would show him the way ifthe king would promise in writing to give him the first thing that greetedhim at the royal court upon his arrival home.The king thought, "I can do that easily enough. Hans My Hedgehog cannotunderstand writing, and I can put down what I want to."Then the king took pen and ink and wrote something, and after he haddone so, Hans My Hedgehog showed him the way, and he arrived safely athome. His daughter saw him coming from afar, and was so overjoyed that sheran to meet him and kissed him. He thought about Hans My Hedgehog and toldher what had happened, that he was supposed to have promised the firstthing that greeted him to a strange animal that rode a rooster and madebeautiful music. But instead he had written that this would not happen,for Hans My Hedgehog could not read. The princess was happy about this,and said that it was a good thing, for she would not have gone with him inany event.Hans My Hedgehog tended the donkeys and pigs, was of good cheer, andsat in the tree blowing on his bagpipes.Now it happened that another king came this way with his servants andmessengers. He too got lost and did not know the way back home because theforest was so large. He too heard the beautiful music from afar, and askedone of his messengers to go and see what it was and where it was comingfrom. The messenger ran to the tree where he saw Hans My Hedgehog astridethe cock rooster. The messenger asked him what he was doing up there."I am tending my donkeys and pigs. What is it that you want?" repliedHans My Hedgehog.The messenger said that they were lost and could not find their wayback to their kingdom, and asked him if he could not show them the way.Then Hans My Hedgehog climbed down from the tree with his rooster andtold the old king that he would show him the way if he would give him thething that he first met at home before the royal castle.The king said yes and signed a promise to Hans My Hedgehog.When that was done, Hans My Hedgehog rode ahead on his rooster showingthem the way, and the king safely reached his kingdom. When the kingarrived at his court there was great joy. Now he had an only daughter whowas very beautiful. She ran out to him, threw her arms around his neck andkissed him, and was ever so happy that her old father had returned.She asked him where he had been during his long absence, and he toldher how he had lost his way and almost not made it home again, but that ashe was making his way through a great forest he had come upon a halfhedgehog, half human astride a rooster sitting in a tall tree and makingbeautiful music who had shown him the way, but whom he had promisedwhatever first met him at the royal court, and it was she herself, and hewas terribly sorry.But she promised that she would go with him when he came, for the loveof her old father.Hans My Hedgehog tended his pigs, and the pigs had more pigs, untilthere were so many that the whole forest was full. Then Hans My Hedgehoglet his father know that they should empty out all the stalls in thevillage, because he was coming with such a large herd of pigs thateveryone who wanted to would be able to take part in the slaughter.It saddened the father to hear this, for he thought thatHans My Hedgehog had long since died. But Hans My Hedgehog mounted hiscock rooster, drove the pigs ahead of himself into the village, and hadthem butchered. What a slaughter! What a commotion! They could hear thenoise two hours away!Afterward Hans My Hedgehog said, "Father, have my cock rooster shod asecond time at the blacksmith's. Then I will ride away and not come backagain as long as I live." So the father had the cock rooster shod, and washappy that Hans My Hedgehog was not coming back.Hans My Hedgehog rode into the first kingdom. The king had ordered thatif anyone should approach who was carrying bagpipes and riding on arooster, that he should be shot at, struck down, and stabbed, to preventhim from entering the castle. Thus when Hans My Hedgehog rode up, theyattacked him with bayonets, but he spurred his rooster on, flew over thegate and up to the king's window. Landing there, he shouted to him, togive him what he had promised, or it would cost him and his daughter theirlives.Then the king told the princess to go out to him, in order to save hislife and her own as well. She put on a white dress, and her father gaveher a carriage with six horses, magnificent servants, money, and property.She climbed aboard and Hans My Hedgehog took his place beside her with hisrooster and bagpipes. They said farewell and drove off.The king thought that he would never see them again. However, it didnot go as he thought it would, for when they had traveled a short distancefrom the city, Hans My Hedgehog pulled off her beautiful clothes and stuckher with his quills until she was bloody all over. "This is the reward foryour deceit. Go away. I do not want you." With that he sent her back home,and she was cursed as long as she lived.Hans My Hedgehog, astride his cock rooster and carrying his bagpipes,rode on to the second kingdom where he had also helped the king find hisway. This one, in contrast, had ordered that if anyone looking likeHans My Hedgehog should arrive, he should be saluted and brought to theroyal castle with honors and with a military escort.When the princess saw him she was horrified, because he looked sostrange, but she thought that nothing could be done about it, because shehad promised her father to go with him. She welcomed Hans My Hedgehog, andthey were married. Then he was taken to the royal table, and she sat nextto him while they ate and drank.That evening when it was time to go to bed, she was afraid of hisquills, but he told her to have no fear, for he would not hurt her. Hetold the old king to have four men keep watch by their bedroom door. Theyshould make a large fire. He said that he would take off his hedgehog skinafter going into the bedroom, and before getting into bed. The men shouldimmediately pick it up and throw it into the fire, and then stay thereuntil it was completely consumed by the fire.When the clock struck eleven, he went into the bedroom, took off thehedgehog skin, and laid it down by the bed. The men rushed in, grabbed it,and threw it into the fire, and as soon as the fire consumed it, he wasredeemed, and he lay there in bed entirely in the shape of a human. But hewas as black as coal, as though he had been charred. The king sent for hisphysician, who washed him with good salves and balms. Then he became whiteand was a handsome young gentleman.When the princess saw what had happened, she was overjoyed, and theygot up and ate and drank. Now their wedding was celebrated for real, andHans My Hedgehog inherited the old king's kingdom.Some years later he traveled with his wife to his father, and said thathe was his son. But the father said that he did not have a son. He had hadone, but he had been born with quills like a hedgehog and had gone offinto the world. Then he said that he was the one, and the old fatherrejoiced and returned with him to his kingdom.My tale is done,And has goneTo Gustchen's home .