Once upon a time there dwelt near a large wood a poor woodcutter, withhis wife and two children by his former marriage, a little boy calledHansel, and a girl named Grethel. He had little enough to break or bite.and once, when there was a great famine in the land, he could notprocure even his daily bread. and as he lay thinking in his bed oneevening, rolling about for trouble, he sighed, and said to his wife,"What will become of us? How can we feed our children, when we have nomore than we can eat ourselves?""Know, then, my husband," answered she, "we will lead them away, quiteearly in the morning, into the thickest part of the wood, and there makethem a fire, and give them each a little piece of bread. then we will goto our work, and leave them alone, so they will not find the way homeagain, and we shall be freed from them." "No, wife," replied he, "that Ican never do. How can you bring your heart to leave my children allalone in the wood, for the wild beasts will soon come and tear them topieces?""Oh, you simpleton!" said she, "then we must all four die of hunger. youhad better plane the coffins for us." But she left him no peace till heconsented, saying, "Ah, but I shall regret the poor children."The two children, however, had not gone to sleep for very hunger, and sothey overheard what the stepmother said to their father. Grethel weptbitterly, and said to Hansel, "What will become of us?" "Be quiet,Grethel," said he. "do not cry I will soon help you." And as soon astheir parents had fallen asleep, he got up, put on his coat, and,unbarring the back door, slipped out. The moon shone brilliantly, andthe white pebbles which lay before the door seemed like silver pieces,they glittered so brightly. Hansel stooped down, and put as many intohis pocket as it would hold. and then going back, he said to Grethel,"Be comforted, dear sister, and sleep in peace. God will not forsakeus." And so saying, he went to bed again.The next morning, before the sun arose, the wife went and awoke the twochildren. "Get up, you lazy things. we are going into the forest to chopwood." Then she gave them each a piece of bread, saying, "There issomething for your dinner. do not eat it before the time, for you willget nothing else." Grethel took the bread in her apron, for Hansel'spocket was full of pebbles. and so they all set out upon their way. Whenthey had gone a little distance, Hansel stood still, and peeped back atthe house. and this he repeated several times, till his father said,"Hansel, what are you peeping at, and why do you lag behind? Take care,and remember your legs.""Ah, father," said Hansel, "I am looking at my white cat sitting uponthe roof of the house, and trying to say good bye." "You simpleton!"said the wife, "that is not a cat. it is only the sun shining on thewhite chimney." But in reality Hansel was not looking at a cat. butevery time he stopped, he dropped a pebble out of his pocket upon thepath.When they came to the middle of the forest, the father told the childrento collect wood, and he would make them a fire, so that they should notbe cold. So Hansel and Grethel gathered together quite a little mountainof twigs. Then they set fire to them. and as the flame burnt up high,the wife said, "Now, you children, lie down near the fire, and restyourselves, while we go into the forest and chop wood. when we areready, I will come and call you."Hansel and Grethel sat down by the fire, and when it was noon, each atethe piece of bread. and because they could hear the blows of an axe,they thought their father was near: but it was not an axe, but a branchwhich he had bound to a withered tree, so as to be blown to and fro bythe wind. They waited so long that at last their eyes closed fromweariness, and they fell fast asleep. When they awoke, it was quitedark, and Grethel began to cry, "How shall we get out of the wood?" ButHansel tried to comfort her by saying, "Wait a little while till themoon rises, and then we will quickly find the way." The moon soon shoneforth, and Hansel, taking his sister's hand, followed the pebbles, whichglittered like new coined silver pieces, and showed them the path. Allnight long they walked on, and as day broke they came to their father'shouse. They knocked at the door, and when the wife opened it, and sawHansel and Grethel, she exclaimed, "You wicked children! why did yousleep so long in the wood? We thought you were never coming home again."But their father was very glad, for it had grieved his heart to leavethem all alone.Not long afterward there was again great scarcity in every corner of theland. and one night the children overheard their stepmother saying totheir father, "Everything is again consumed. we have only half a loafleft, and then the song is ended: the children must be sent away. Wewill take them deeper into the wood, so that they may not find the wayout again. it is the only means of escape for us."But her husband felt heavy at heart, and thought, "It were better toshare the last crust with the children." His wife, however, would listento nothing that he said, and scolded and reproached him without end.He who says A must say B too. and he who consents the first time mustalso the second.The children, however, had heard the conversation as they lay awake, andas soon as the old people went to sleep Hansel got up, intending to pickup some pebbles as before. but the wife had locked the door, so that hecould not get out. Nevertheless, he comforted Grethel, saying, "Do notcry. sleep in quiet. the good God will not forsake us."Early in the morning the stepmother came and pulled them out of bed, andgave them each a slice of bread, which was still smaller than the formerpiece. On the way, Hansel broke his in his pocket, and, stooping everynow and then, dropped a crumb upon the path. "Hansel, why do you stopand look about?" said the father. "keep in the path." "I am looking atmy little dove," answered Hansel, "nodding a good bye to me.""Simpleton!" said the wife, "that is no dove, but only the sun shiningon the chimney." But Hansel still kept dropping crumbs as he went along.The mother led the children deep into the wood, where they had neverbeen before, and there making an immense fire, she said to them, "Sitdown here and rest, and when you feel tired you can sleep for a littlewhile. We are going into the forest to hew wood, and in the evening,when we are ready, we will come and fetch you."When noon came Grethel shared her bread with Hansel, who had strewn hison the path. Then they went to sleep. but the evening arrived and no onecame to visit the poor children, and in the dark night they awoke, andHansel comforted his sister by saying, "Only wait, Grethel, till themoon comes out, then we shall see the crumbs of bread which I havedropped, and they will show us the way home." The moon shone and theygot up, but they could not see any crumbs, for the thousands of birdswhich had been flying about in the woods and fields had picked them allup. Hansel kept saying to Grethel, "We will soon find the way". but theydid not, and they walked the whole night long and the next day, butstill they did not come out of the wood. and they got so hungry, forthey had nothing to eat but the berries which they found upon thebushes. Soon they got so tired that they could not drag themselvesalong, so they lay down under a tree and went to sleep.It was now the third morning since they had left their father's house,and they still walked on. but they only got deeper and deeper into thewood, and Hansel saw that if help did not come very soon they would dieof hunger. At about noonday they saw a beautiful snow white bird sittingupon a bough, which sang so sweetly that they stood still and listenedto it. It soon ceased, and spreading its wings flew off. and theyfollowed it until it arrived at a cottage, upon the roof of which itperched. and when they went close up to it they saw that the cottage wasmade of bread and cakes, and the window panes were of clear sugar."We will go in there," said Hansel, "and have a glorious feast. I willeat a piece of the roof, and you can eat the window. Will they not besweet?" So Hansel reached up and broke a piece off the roof, in order tosee how it tasted, while Grethel stepped up to the window and began tobite it. Then a sweet voice called out in the room, "Tip tap, tip tap,who raps at my door?" and the children answered, "the wind, the wind,the child of heaven". and they went on eating without interruption.Hansel thought the roof tasted very nice, so he tore off a great piece.while Grethel broke a large round pane out of the window, and sat downquite contentedly. Just then the door opened, and a very old woman,walking upon crutches, came out. Hansel and Grethel were so frightenedthat they let fall what they had in their hands. but the old woman,nodding her head, said, "Ah, you dear children, what has brought youhere? Come in and stop with me, and no harm shall befall you". and sosaying she took them both by the hand, and led them into her cottage. Agood meal of milk and pancakes, with sugar, apples, and nuts, was spreadon the table, and in the back room were two nice little beds, coveredwith white, where Hansel and Grethel laid themselves down, and thoughtthemselves in heaven. The old woman behaved very kindly to them, but inreality she was a wicked witch who waylaid children, and built thebread house in order to entice them in, but as soon as they were in herpower she killed them, cooked and ate them, and made a great festival ofthe day. Witches have red eyes, and cannot see very far. but they have afine sense of smelling, like wild beasts, so that they know whenchildren approach them. When Hansel and Grethel came near the witch'shouse she laughed wickedly, saying, "Here come two who shall not escapeme." And early in the morning, before they awoke, she went up to them,and saw how lovingly they lay sleeping, with their chubby red cheeks,and she mumbled to herself, "That will be a good bite." Then she took upHansel with her rough hands, and shut him up in a little cage with alattice door. and although he screamed loudly it was of no use. Grethelcame next, and, shaking her till she awoke, the witch said, "Get up, youlazy thing, and fetch some water to cook something good for yourbrother, who must remain in that stall and get fat. when he is fatenough I shall eat him." Grethel began to cry, but it was all useless,for the old witch made her do as she wished. So a nice meal was cookedfor Hansel, but Grethel got nothing but a crab's claw.Every morning the old witch came to the cage and said, "Hansel, stretchout your finger that I may feel whether you are getting fat." But Hanselused to stretch out a bone, and the old woman, having very bad sight,thought it was his finger, and wondered very much that he did not getfatter. When four weeks had passed, and Hansel still kept quite lean,she lost all her patience, and would not wait any longer. "Grethel," shecalled out in a passion, "get some water quickly. be Hansel fat or lean,this morning I will kill and cook him." Oh, how the poor little sistergrieved, as she was forced to fetch the water, and fast the tears randown her cheeks! "Dear good God, help us now!" she exclaimed. "Had weonly been eaten by the wild beasts in the wood, then we should have diedtogether." But the old witch called out, "Leave off that noise. it willnot help you a bit."So early in the morning Grethel was forced to go out and fill thekettle, and make a fire. "First, we will bake, however," said the oldwoman. "I have already heated the oven and kneaded the dough". and sosaying, she pushed poor Grethel up to the oven, out of which the flameswere burning fiercely. "Creep in," said the witch, "and see if it is hotenough, and then we will put in the bread". but she intended whenGrethel got in to shut up the oven and let her bake, so that she mighteat her as well as Hansel. Grethel perceived what her thoughts were, andsaid, "I do not know how to do it. how shall I get in?" "You stupidgoose," said she, "the opening is big enough. See, I could even get inmyself!" and she got up, and put her head into the oven. Then Grethelgave her a push, so that she fell right in, and then shutting the irondoor she bolted it! Oh! how horribly she howled. but Grethel ran away,and left the ungodly witch to burn to ashes.Now she ran to Hansel, and, opening his door, called out, "Hansel, weare saved. the old witch is dead!" So he sprang out, like a bird out ofhis cage when the door is opened. and they were so glad that they fellupon each other's neck, and kissed each other over and over again. Andnow, as there was nothing to fear, they went into the witch's house,where in every corner were caskets full of pearls and precious stones."These are better than pebbles," said Hansel, putting as many into hispocket as it would hold. while Grethel thought, "I will take some too,"and filled her apron full. "We must be off now," said Hansel, "and getout of this enchanted forest." But when they had walked for two hoursthey came to a large piece of water. "We cannot get over," said Hansel."I can see no bridge at all." "And there is no boat, either," saidGrethel. "but there swims a white duck, and I will ask her to help usover." And she sang:"Little Duck, good little Duck,Grethel and Hansel, here we stand.There is neither stile nor bridge,Take us on your back to land."So the duck came to them, and Hansel sat himself on, and bade his sistersit behind him. "No," answered Grethel, "that will be too much for theduck. she shall take us over one at a time." This the good little birddid, and when both were happily arrived on the other side, and had gonea little way, they came to a well known wood, which they knew the betterevery step they went, and at last they perceived their father's house.Then they began to run, and, bursting into the house, they fell intotheir father's arms. He had not had one happy hour since he had left thechildren in the forest. and his wife was dead. Grethel shook her apron,and the pearls and precious stones rolled out upon the floor, and Hanselthrew down one handful after the other out of his pocket. Then all theirsorrows were ended, and they lived together in great happiness.My tale is done. There runs a mouse. whoever catches her may make agreat, great cap out of her fur.