One day I was traveling on foot from Galway to Dublin, and the darknesscame on me and I ten miles from the town I was wanting to pass the nightin. Then a hard rain began to fall and I was tired walking, so when I sawa sort of a house with no roof on it up against the road, I got in the waythe walls would give me shelter.As I was looking round I saw a light in some trees two perches off, andthinking any sort of a house would be better than where I was, I got overa wall and went up to the house to look in at the window.I saw a dead laid man on a table, and candles lighted, and a womanwatchinghim. I was frightened when I saw him, but it was raining hard, and I saidto myself, if he was dead he couldn't hurt me. Then I knocked on the doorand the woman came and opened it."Good evening, ma'am," says I."Good evening kindly, stranger," says she. "Come in out of therain."Then she took me in and told me her husband was after dying on her, andshe was watching him that night."But it's thirsty you'll be, stranger," says she. "Come into theparlor."Then she took me into the parlor   and it was a fine clean house  and she put a cup, with a saucer under it, on the table before me withfine sugar and bread.When I'd had a cup of tea I went back into the kitchen where the deadman was lying, and she gave me a fine new pipe off the table with a dropof spirits."Stranger," says she, "would you be afeard to be alone withhimself?""Not a bit in the world, ma'am," says I. "he that's dead can do nohurt."Then she said she wanted to go over and tell the neighbors the way herhusband was after dying on her, and she went out and locked the doorbehind her.I smoked one pipe, and I leaned out and took another off the table. Iwas smoking it with my hand on the back of my chair   the way you areyourself this minute, God bless you   and I looking on the dead man, whenhe opened his eyes as wide as myself and looked at me."Don't be afeard, stranger," said the dead man. "I'm not dead at all inthe world. Come here and help me up and I'll tell you all about it."Well, I went up and took the sheet off of him, and I saw that he had afine clean shirt on his body, and fine flannel drawers.He sat up then, and says he, "I've got a bad wife, stranger, and I leton to be dead the way I'd catch her goings on."Then he got two fine sticks he had to keep down his wife, and put themat each side of his body, and he laid himself out again as if he wasdead.In half and hour his wife came back and a young man along with her.Well, she gave him his tea, and she told him he was tired, and he would doright to go and lie down in the bedroom.The young man went in and the woman sat down to watch by the dead man.A while after she got up and "Stranger," says she, "I'm going in to getthe candle out of the room. I'm thinking the young man will be asleep bythis time." She went into the bedroom, but the divil a bit of her cameback.Then the dead man got up, and took one stick, and he gave the other tomyself. We went in and saw them lying together with her head on hisarm.The dead man hit him a blow with the stick so that the blood out of himleapt up and hit the gallery.That is my story.