(32) From the Icelandic.Once upon a time there were a King and a Queen who had an only daughter,called Hadvor, who was fair and beautiful, and being an only child, washeir to the kingdom. The King and Queen had also a foster son, namedHermod, who was just about the same age as Hadvor, and was good looking,as well as clever at most things. Hermod and Hadvor often playedtogether while they were children, and liked each other so much thatwhile they were still young they secretly plighted their troth to eachother.As time went on the Queen fell sick, and suspecting that it was her lastillness, sent for the King to come to her. When he came she told himthat she had no long time to live, and therefore wished to ask one thingof him, which was, that if he married another wife he should promise totake no other one than the Queen of Hetland the Good. The King gave thepromise, and thereafter the Queen died.Time went past, and the King, growing tired of living alone, fittedout his ship and sailed out to sea. As he sailed there came upon himso thick a mist that he altogether lost his bearings, but after longtrouble he found land. There he laid his ship to, and went on shore allalone. After walking for some time he came to a forest, into which hewent a little way and stopped. Then he heard sweet music from a harp,and went in the direction of the sound until he came to a clearing, andthere he saw three women, one of whom sat on a golden chair, and wasbeautifully and grandly dressed. she held a harp in her hands, andwas very sorrowful. The second was also finely dressed, but youngerin appearance, and also sat on a chair, but it was not so grand as thefirst one's. The third stood beside them, and was very pretty to lookat. she had a green cloak over her other clothes, and it was easy to seethat she was maid to the other two.After the King had looked at them for a little he went forward andsaluted them. The one that sat on the golden chair asked him who hewas and where he was going. and he told her all the story how he wasa king, and had lost his queen, and was now on his way to Hetland theGood, to ask the Queen of that country in marriage. She answered thatfortune had contrived this wonderfully, for pirates had plunderedHetland and killed the King, and she had fled from the land in terror,and had come hither after great trouble, and she was the very personhe was looking for, and the others were her daughter and maid. TheKing immediately asked her hand. she gladly received his proposal andaccepted him at once. Thereafter they all set out, and made their way tothe ship. and after that nothing is told of their voyage until the Kingreached his own country. There he made a great feast, and celebrated hismarriage with this woman. and after that things are quiet for a time.Hermod and Hadvor took but little notice of the Queen and her daughter,but, on the other hand, Hadvor and the Queen's maid, whose name wasOlof, were very friendly, and Olof came often to visit Hadvor in hercastle. Before long the King went out to war, and no sooner was he awaythan the Queen came to talk with Hermod, and said that she wanted him tomarry her daughter. Hermod told her straight and plain that he wouldnot do so, at which the Queen grew terribly angry, and said that in thatcase neither should he have Hadvor, for she would now lay this spell onhim, that he should go to a desert island and there be a lion by day anda man by night. He should also think always of Hadvor, which would causehim all the more sorrow, and from this spell he should never be freeduntil Hadvor burned the lion's skin, and that would not happen verysoon.As soon as the Queen had finished her speech Hermod replied that he alsolaid a spell on her, and that was, that as soon as he was freed from herenchantments she should become a rat and her daughter a mouse, and fightwith each other in the hall until he killed them with his sword.After this Hermod disappeared, and no one knew what had become of him.the Queen caused search to be made for him, but he could nowhere befound. One time, when Olof was in the castle beside Hadvor, she askedthe Princess if she knew where Hermod had gone to. At this Hadvor becamevery sad, and said that she did not.'I shall tell you then,' said Olof, 'for I know all about it. Hermod hasdisappeared through the wicked devices of the Queen, for she is a witch,and so is her daughter, though they have put on these beautiful forms.Because Hermod would not fall in with the Queen's plans, and marry herdaughter, she has laid a spell on him, to go on an island and be a lionby day and a man by night, and never be freed from this until you burnthe lion's skin. Besides,' said Olof, 'she has looked out a match foryou. she has a brother in the Underworld, a three headed Giant, whom shemeans to turn into a beautiful prince and get him married to you. Thisis no new thing for the Queen. she took me away from my parents' houseand compelled me to serve her. but she has never done me any harm, forthe green cloak I wear protects me against all mischief.Hadvor now became still sadder than before at the thought of themarriage destined for her, and entreated Olof to think of some plan tosave her.'I think,' said Olof, 'that your wooer will come up through the floor ofthe castle to you, and so you must be prepared when you hear the noiseof his coming and the floor begins to open, and have at hand blazingpitch, and pour plenty of it into the opening. That will prove too muchfor him.'About this time the King came home from his expedition, and thought ita great blow that no one knew what had become of Hermod. but the Queenconsoled him as best she could, and after a time the King thought lessabout his disappearance.Hadvor remained in her castle, and had made preparations to receive herwooer when he came. One night, not long after, a loud noise and rumblingwas heard under the castle. Hadvor at once guessed what it was, and toldher maids to be ready to help her. The noise and thundering grew louderand louder, until the floor began to open, whereupon Hadvor made themtake the caldron of pitch and pour plenty of it into the opening. Withthat the noises grew fainter and fainter, till at last they ceasedaltogether.Next morning the Queen rose early, and went out to the Palace gate, andthere she found her brother the Giant lying dead. She went up to him andsaid, 'I pronounce this spell, that you become a beautiful prince, andthat Hadvor shall be unable to say anything against the charges that Ishall bring against her.'The body of the dead Giant now became that of a beautiful prince, andthe Queen went in again.'I don't think,' said she to the King, 'that your daughter is as good asshe is said to be. My brother came and asked her hand, and she has hadhim put to death. I have just found his dead body lying at the Palacegate.'The King went along with the Queen to see the body, and thought it allvery strange. so beautiful a youth, he said, would have been a worthymatch for Hadvor, and he would readily have agreed to their marriage.The Queen asked leave to decide what Hadvor's punishment should be,which the King was very willing to allow, so as to escape from punishinghis own daughter. The Queen's decision was that the King should make abig grave mound for her brother, and put Hadvor into it beside him.Olof knew all the plans of the Queen, and went to tell the Princess whathad been done, whereupon Hadvor earnestly entreated her to tell her whatto do.'First and foremost,' said Olof, 'you must get a wide cloak to wear overyour other clothes, when you are put into the mound. The Giant's ghostwill walk after you are both left together in there, and he will havetwo dogs along with him. He will ask you to cut pieces out of his legsto give to the dogs, but that you must not promise to do unless he tellsyou where Hermod has gone to, and tells you how to find him. He willthen let you stand on his shoulders, so as to get out of the mound. buthe means to cheat you all the same, and will catch you by the cloak topull you back again. but you must take care to have the cloak loose onyour shoulders, so that he will only get hold of that.'The mound was all ready now, and the Giant laid in it, and into itHadvor also had to go without being allowed to make any defence. Afterthey were both left there everything happened just as Olof had said. Theprince became a Giant again, and asked Hadvor to cut the pieces out ofhis legs for the dogs. but she refused until he told her that Hermod wasin a desert island, which she could not reach unless she took the skinoff the soles of his feet and made shoes out of that. with these shoesshe could travel both on land and sea. This Hadvor now did, and theGiant then let her get up on his shoulders to get out of the mound. Asshe sprang out he caught hold of her cloak. but she had taken care tolet it lie loose on her shoulders, and so escaped.She now made her way down to the sea, to where she knew there was theshortest distance over to the island in which Hermod was. This straitshe easily crossed, for the shoes kept her up. On reaching the islandshe found a sandy beach all along by the sea, and high cliffs above. Norcould she see any way to get up these, and so, being both sad at heartand tired with the long journey, she lay down and fell asleep. As sheslept she dreamed that a tall woman came to her and said, 'I know thatyou are Princess Hadvor, and are searching for Hermod. He is on thisisland. but it will be hard for you to get to him if you have no one tohelp you, for you cannot climb the cliffs by your own strength. I havetherefore let down a rope, by which you will be able to climb up. and asthe island is so large that you might not find Hermod's dwelling placeso easily, I lay down this clew beside you. You need only hold the endof the thread, and the clew will run on before and show you the way. Ialso lay this belt beside you, to put on when you awaken. it will keepyou from growing faint with hunger.'The woman now disappeared, and Hadvor woke, and saw that all her dreamhad been true. The rope hung down from the cliff, and the clew and beltlay beside her. The belt she put on, the rope enabled her to climb upthe cliff, and the clew led her on till she came to the mouth of a cave,which was not very big. She went into the cave, and saw there a lowcouch, under which she crept and lay down.When evening came she heard the noise of footsteps outside, and becameaware that the lion had come to the mouth of the cave, and shook itselfthere, after which she heard a man coming towards the couch. She wassure this was Hermod, because she heard him speaking to himself abouthis own condition, and calling to mind Hadvor and other things in theold days. Hadvor made no sign, but waited till he had fallen asleep, andthen crept out and burned the lion's skin, which he had left outside.Then she went back into the cave and wakened Hermod, and they had a mostjoyful meeting.In the morning they talked over their plans, and were most at a lossto know how to get out of the island. Hadvor told Hermod her dream, andsaid she suspected there was some one in the island who would be able tohelp them. Hermod said he knew of a Witch there, who was very ready tohelp anyone, and that the only plan was to go to her. So they went tothe Witch's cave, and found her there with her fifteen young sons, andasked her to help them to get to the mainland.'There are other things easier than that,' said she, 'for the Giant thatwas buried will be waiting for you, and will attack you on the way,as he has turned himself into a big whale. I shall lend you a boat,however, and if you meet the whale and think your lives are in danger,then you can name me by name.'They thanked her greatly for her help and advice, and set out from theisland, but on the way they saw a huge fish coming towards them, withgreat splashing and dashing of waves. They were sure of what it was, andthought they had as good reason as ever they would have to call onthe Witch, and so they did. The next minute they saw coming after themanother huge whale, followed by fifteen smaller ones. All of these swampast the boat and went on to meet the whale. There was a fierce battlethen, and the sea became so stormy that it was not very easy to keep theboat from being filled by the waves. After this fight had gone on forsome time, they saw that the sea was dyed with blood. the big whaleand the fifteen smaller ones disappeared, and they got to land safe andsound.Now the story goes back to the King's hall, where strange things hadhappened in the meantime. The Queen and her daughter had disappeared,but a rat and a mouse were always fighting with each other there. Everso many people had tried to drive them away, but no one could manage it.Thus some time went on, while the King was almost beside himself withsorrow and care for the loss of his Queen, and because these monstersdestroyed all mirth in the hall.One evening, however, while they all sat dull and down hearted, in cameHermod with a sword by his side, and saluted the King, who receivedhim with the greatest joy, as if he had come back from the dead. BeforeHermod sat down, however, he went to where the rat and the mouse werefighting, and cut them in two with his sword. All were astonished thenby seeing two witches lying dead on the floor of the hall.Hermod now told the whole story to the King, who was very glad to be ridof such vile creatures. Next he asked for the hand of Hadvor, which theKing readily gave him, and being now an old man, gave the kingdom to himas well. and so Hermod became King.Olof married a good looking nobleman, and that is the end of the story.