One day Brer Fox heard Mr. Man coming down the big road in a one horsewagon carrying some chickens and some eggs and some butter to town. BrerFox heard him coming, he did, and what did he do but go and lay down inthe road in front of the wagon. Mr. Man, he drove along, he did, cluckingto the horse and humming to himself, and when they got almost up to BrerFox, the horse, he shied, he did, and Mr. Man, he took and hollered"whoa!" and the horse, he took and whoaed.Then Mr. Man, he looked down, and he saw Brer Fox lying out there onthe ground, just like he was cold and stiff, and when Mr. Man saw this, hehollered out, "Heyo! There's the chap that's been nabbing up my chickens,and somebody's done gone and shot off a gun at him, which I wish it hadbeen two guns   that I do!"With that Mr. Man drove off and left Brer Fox lying there. Then BrerFox, he got up and ran around through the woods and lay down in front ofMr. Man again, and Mr. Man came driving along, and he saw Brer Fox, and hesaid, "Heyo! You're the very chap that's been destroying my pigs.Somebody's done gone and killed him, and I wish they'd have killed him along time ago."Then Mr. Man, he drove on, and the wagon wheel came mighty near mashingBrer Fox's nose. Yet, all the same, Brer Fox leaped up and ran aroundahead of Mr. Man and lay down in the road, and when Mr. Man came along,there he was all stretched out like he was big enough to fill a two bushelbasket, and he looked like he was dead enough to be skinned.Mr. Man drove up, he did, and stopped. He looked down upon Brer Fox,and then he looked all around to see what the occasion was and why the foxwas dead.Mr. Man looked all around, he did, but he didn't see anything, andneither did he hear anything. He sat there and studied, and by and by hedecided to see what had got into the fox family, and with that he got downout of the wagon, and he felt Brer Fox's ears. Brer Fox's ears felt rightwarm. Then he felt Brer Fox's neck. Brer Fox's neck felt right warm. Thenhe felt Brer Fox's short ribs. Brer Fox's short ribs were sound. Then hefelt Brer Fox's limbs. Brer Fox's limbs were sound. Then he turned BrerFox over, and lo and behold, Brer Fox was right limber.When Mr. Man saw this, he said to himself, "Heyo, here! How come? Thishere chicken nabber looks like he's dead, but no bones are broken, and Ican't see any blood, and neither can I see any bruises. and more thanthat, he is warm and limber. Something is wrong here for sure! This herepig grabber might be dead, and then again, he might not be. Just tomake sure that he is, I'll give him a whack with my whip handle."And with that, Mr. Man drew back and fetched Brer Fox a clip behind theears   pow!   and the lick came so hard and it came so quick thatBrer Fox thought for sure that he was a goner. But before Mr. Man coulddraw back and fetch him another wipe, Brer Fox scrambled to his feet, hedid, and did he make tracks away from there.