Once upon a time the devil was seized with a desire to marry. Hetherefore left hell, took the form of a handsome young man, and built afine large house. When it was completed and furnished in the mostfashionable style he introduced himself to a family where there were threepretty daughters, and paid his addresses to the eldest of them. Thehandsome man pleased the maiden, her parents were glad to see a daughterso well provided for, and it was not long before the wedding wascelebrated.When he had taken his bride home, he presented her with a verytastefully arranged bouquet, led her through all the rooms of the house,and finally to a closed door. "The whole house is at your disposal," saidhe, "only I must request one thing of you. that is, that you do not on anyaccount open this door."Of course the young wife promised faithfully. but equally, of course,she could scarcely wait for the moment to come when she might break herpromise. When the devil had left the house the next morning, underpretence of going hunting, she ran hastily to the forbidden door, openedit, and saw a terrible abyss full of fire that shot up towards her, andsinged the flowers on her bosom. When her husband came home and asked herwhether she had kept her promise, she unhesitatingly said "Yes." But hesaw by the flowers that she was telling a lie, and said, "Now I will notput your curiosity to the test any longer. Come with me. I will show youmyself what is behind the door." Thereupon he led her to the door, openedit, gave her such a push that she fell down into hell, and shut the dooragain.A few months after he wooed the next sister for his wife, and won her.but with her everything that had happened with the first wife was exactlyrepeated.Finally he courted the third sister. She was a prudent maiden, and saidto herself, "He has certainly murdered my two sisters. but then it is asplendid match for me, so I will try and see whether I cannot be morefortunate than they." And accordingly she consented. After the wedding thebridegroom gave her a beautiful bouquet, but forbade her, also, to openthe door which he pointed out.Not a whit less curious than her sisters, she, too, opened theforbidden door when the devil had gone hunting, but she had previously puther flowers in water. Then she saw behind the door the fatal abyss and hersisters therein. "Ah!" she exclaimed, "poor creature that I am. I thoughtI had married an ordinary man, and instead of that he is the devil! Howcan I get away from him?" She carefully pulled her two sisters out of helland hid them. When the devil came home he immediately looked at thebouquet, which she again wore on her bosom, and when he found the flowersso fresh he asked no questions. but reassured as to his secret, he now,for the first time, really loved her.After a few days she asked him if he would carry three chests for herto her parents' house, without putting them down or resting on the way."But," she added, "you must keep your word, for I shall be watchingyou."The devil promised to do exactly as she wished. So the next morning sheput one of her sisters in a chest, and laid it on her husband's shoulders.The devil, who is very strong, but also very lazy and unaccustomed towork, soon got tired of carrying the heavy chest, and wanted to restbefore he was out of the street on which he lived. but his wife called outto him, "Don't put it down. I see you!"The devil went reluctantly on with the chest until he had turned thecorner, and then said to himself, "She cannot see me here. I will rest alittle."But scarcely had he begun to put the chest down when the sister insidecried out, "Don't put it down. I see you still!" Cursing, he dragged thechest on into another street, and was going to lay it down on a doorstep,but he again heard the voice, "Don't lay it down, you rascal. I see youstill!""What kind of eyes must my wife have," he thought, "to see aroundcorners as well as straight ahead, and through walls as if they were madeof glass!" and thus thinking he arrived, all in a perspiration and quitetired out, at the house of his mother in law, to whom he hastily deliveredthe chest, and then hurried home to strengthen himself with a goodbreakfast.The same thing was repeated the next day with the second chest. On thethird day she herself was to be taken home in the chest. She thereforeprepared a figure which she dressed in her own clothes, and placed on thebalcony, under the pretext of being able to watch him better. slippedquickly into the chest, and had the maid put it on the devil's back. "Thedeuce!" said he. "this chest is a great deal heavier than the others. andtoday, when she is sitting on the balcony, I shall have so much the lesschance to rest." So by dint of the greatest exertions he carried it,without stopping, to his mother in law, and then hastened home tobreakfast, scolding, and with his back almost broken.But quite contrary to custom, his wife did not come out to meet him,and there was no breakfast ready. "Margerita, where are you?" he cried,but received no answer. As he was running through the corridors, he atlength looked out of a window and saw the figure on the balcony."Margerita, have you gone to sleep? Come down. I am as tired as a dog, andas hungry as a wolf." But there was no reply. "If you do not come downinstantly I will go up and bring you down," he cried, angrily. butMargerita did not stir. Enraged, he hastened up to the balcony, and gaveher such a box on the ear that her head flew off, and he saw that the headwas nothing but a milliner's form, and the body, a bundle of rags. Raging,he rushed down and rummaged through the whole house, but in vain. he foundonly his wife's empty jewel box. "Ha!" he cried. "she has been stolen fromme and her jewels, too!" and he immediately ran to inform her parents ofthe misfortune. But when he came near the house, to his great surprise hesaw on the balcony above the door all three sisters, his wives, who werelooking down on him with scornful laughter.Three wives at once terrified the devil so much that he took his flightwith all possible speed.Since that time he has lost his taste for marrying.