After Ball Carrier had managed to drown the Bad One so that he could notdo any more mischief, he forgot the way to his grandmother's house, andcould not find it again, though he searched everywhere. During this timehe wandered into many strange places, and had many adventures. and oneday he came to a hut where a young girl lived. He was tired and hungryand begged her to let him in and rest, and he stayed a long while, andthe girl became his wife. One morning he saw two children playing infront of the hut, and went out to speak to them. But as soon as they sawhim they set up cries of horror and ran away. 'They are the children ofmy sister who has been on a long journey,' replied his wife, 'and nowthat she knows you are my husband she wants to kill you.''Oh, well, let her try,' replied Ball Carrier. 'It is not the first timepeople have wished to do that. And here I am still, you see!''Be careful,' said the wife, 'she is very cunning.' But at this momentthe sister in law came up.'How do you do, brother in law? I have heard of you so often that I amvery glad to meet you. I am told that you are more powerful than any manon earth, and as I am powerful too, let us try which is the strongest.''That will be delightful,' answered he. 'Suppose we begin with a shortrace, and then we will go on to other things.''That will suit me very well,' replied the woman, who was a witch. 'Andlet us agree that the one who wins shall have the right to kill theother.''Oh, certainly,' said Ball Carrier.' and I don't think we shall find aflatter course than the prairie itself no one knows how many miles itstretches. We will run to the end and back again.'This being settled they both made ready for the race, and Ball Carriersilently begged the good spirits to help him, and not to let him fallinto the hands of this wicked witch.'When the sun touches the trunk of that tree we will start,' said she,as they both stood side by side. But with the first step Ball Carrierchanged himself into a wolf and for a long way kept ahead. Thengradually he heard her creeping up behind him, and soon she was infront. So Ball Carrier took the shape of a pigeon and flew rapidly pasther, but in a little while she was in front again and the end of theprairie was in sight. 'A crow can fly faster than a pigeon,' thought he,and as a crow he managed to pass her and held his ground so long thathe fancied she was quite beaten. The witch began to be afraid of it too,and putting out all her strength slipped past him. Next he put on theshape of a hawk, and in this form he reached the bounds of the prairie,he and the witch turning homewards at the moment.Bird after bird he tried, but every time the witch gained on him andtook the lead. At length the goal was in sight, and Ball Carrier knewthat unless he could get ahead now he would be killed before his owndoor, under the eyes of his wife. His eyes had grown dim from fatigue,his wings flapped wearily and hardly bore him along, while the witchseemed as fresh as ever. What bird was there whose flight was swifterthan his? Would not the good spirits tell him? Ah, of course he knew.why had he not thought of it at first and spared himself all thatfatigue? And the next instant a humming bird, dressed in green and blue,flashed past the woman and entered the house. The witch came panting up,furious at having lost the race which she felt certain of winning. andBall Carrier, who had by this time changed back into his own shape,struck her on the head and killed her.For a long while Ball Carrier was content to stay quietly at home withhis wife and children, for he was tired of adventures, and only didenough hunting to supply the house with food. But one day he happened toeat some poisonous berries that he had found in the forest, and grew soill that he felt he was going to die.'When I am dead do not bury me in the earth,' he said, 'but put me overthere, among that clump of trees.' So his wife and her three childrenwatched by him as long as he was alive, and after he was dead they tookhim up and laid the body on a platform of stakes which they had preparedin the grove. And as they returned weeping to the hut they caughta glimpse of the ball rolling away down the path back to the oldgrandmother. One of the sons sprang forward to stop it, for Ball Carrierhad often told them the tale of how it had helped him to cross theriver, but it was too quick for him, and they had to content themselveswith the war club and bow and arrows, which were put carefully away.By and by some travellers came past, and the chief among them askedleave to marry Ball Carrier's daughter. The mother said she must have alittle time to think over it, as her daughter was still very young. soit was settled that the man should go away for a month with his friends,and then come back to see if the girl was willing.Now ever since Ball Carrier's death the family had been very poor, andoften could not get enough to eat. One morning the girl, who had hadno supper and no breakfast, wandered off to look for cranberries, andthough she was quite near home was astonished at noticing a large hut,which certainly had not been there when last she had come that way.No one was about, so she ventured to peep in, and her surprise wasincreased at seeing, heaped up in one corner, a quantity of food of allsorts, while a little robin redbreast stood perched on a beam lookingdown upon her.'It is my father, I am sure,' she cried. and the bird piped in answer.From that day, whenever they wanted food they went to the hut, andthough the robin could not speak, he would hop on their shoulders andlet them feed him with the food they knew he liked best.When the man came back he found the girl looking so much prettier andfatter than when he had left her, that he insisted that they should bemarried on the spot. And the mother, who did not know how to get rid ofhim, gave in.The husband spent all his time in hunting, and the family had never hadso much meat before. but the man, who had seen for himself how poor theywere, noticed with amazement that they did not seem to care about it, orto be hungry. 'They must get food from somewhere,' he thought, and onemorning, when he pretended to be going out to hunt, he hid in a thicketto watch. Very soon they all left the house together, and walked to theother hut, which the girl's husband saw for the first time, as it washid in a hollow. He followed, and noticed that each one went up to theredbreast, and shook him by the claw. and he then entered boldly andshook the bird's claw too. The whole party afterwards sat down todinner, after which they all returned to their own hut.The next day the husband declared that he was very ill, and could noteat anything. but this was only a presence so that he might get what hewanted. The family were all much distressed, and begged him to tell themwhat food he fancied.'Oh! I could not eat any food,' he answered every time, and at eachanswer his voice grew fainter and fainter, till they thought he woulddie from weakness before their eyes.'There must be some thing you could take, if you would only say what itis,' implored his wife.'No, nothing, nothing. except, perhaps but of course that isimpossible!''No, I am sure it is not,' replied she. 'you shall have it, Ipromise only tell me what it is.''I think but I could not ask you to do such a thing. Leave me alone,and let me die quietly.''You shall not die,' cried the girl, who was very fond of her husband,for he did not beat her as most girls' husbands did. 'Whatever it is, Iwill manage to get it for you.''Well, then, I think, if I had that redbreast, nicely roasted, I couldeat a little bit of his wing!'The wife started back in horror at such a request. but the man turnedhis face to the wall, and took no notice, as he thought it was better toleave her to herself for a little.Weeping and wringing her hands, the girl went down to her mother. Thebrothers were very angry when they heard the story, and declared that,if any one were to die, it certainly should not be the robin. But allthat night the man seemed getting weaker and weaker, and at last, quiteearly, the wife crept out, and stealing to the hut, killed the bird, andbrought him home to her husband.Just as she was going to cook it her two brothers came in. They criedout in horror at the sight, and, rushing out of the hut, declared theywould never see her any more. And the poor girl, with a heavy heart,took the body of the redbreast up to her husband.But directly she entered the room the man told her that he felt a greatdeal better, and that he would rather have a piece of bear's flesh, wellboiled, than any bird, however tender. His wife felt very miserable tothink that their beloved redbreast had been sacrificed for nothing, andbegged him to try a little bit.'You felt so sure that it would do you good before,' said she, 'that Ican't help thinking it would quite cure you now.' But the man only flewinto a rage, and flung the bird out of the window. Then he got up andwent out.Now all this while the ball had been rolling, rolling, rolling to theold grandmother's hut on the other side of the world, and directly itrolled into her hut she knew that her grandson must be dead. Withoutwasting any time she took a fox skin and tied it round her forehead, andfastened another round her waist, as witches always do when they leavetheir own homes. When she was ready she said to the ball: 'Go back theway you came, and lead me to my grandson.' And the ball started with theold woman following.It was a long journey, even for a witch, but, like other things, itended at last. and the old woman stood before the platform of stakes,where the body of Ball Carrier lay.'Wake up, my grandson, it is time to go home,' the witch said. AndBall Carrier stepped down oft the platform, and brought his club and bowand arrows out of the hut, and set out, for the other side of the world,behind the old woman.When they reached the hut where Ball Carrier had fasted so many yearsago, the old woman spoke for the first time since they had started ontheir way.'My grandson, did you ever manage to get that gold from the Bad One?''Yes, grandmother, I got it.''Where is it?' she asked.'Here, in my left arm pit,' answered he.So she picked up a knife and scraped away all the gold which had stuckto his skin, and which had been sticking there ever since he first stoleit. After she had finished she asked again:'My grandson, did you manage to get that bridge from the Bad One?''Yes, grandmother, I got that too,' answered he.'Where is it?' she asked, and Ball Carrier lifted his right arm, andpointed to his arm pit.'Here is the bridge, grandmother,' said he.Then the witch did something that nobody in the world could have guessedthat she would do. First, she took the gold and said to Ball carrier:'My grandson, this gold must be hidden in the earth, for if people thinkthey can get it when they choose, they will become lazy and stupid. Butif we take it and bury it in different parts of the world they will haveto work for it if they want it, and then will only find a little at atime.' And as she spoke, she pulled up one of the poles of the hut, andBall Carrier saw that underneath was a deep, deep hole, which seemed tohave no bottom. Down this hole she poured all the gold, and when it wasout of sight it ran about all over the world, where people that dig hardsometimes find it. And after that was done she put the pole back again.Next she lifted down a spade from a high shelf, where it had grown quiterusty, and dug a very small hole on the opposite side of the hut verysmall, but very deep.'Give me the bridge,' said she, 'for I am going to bury it here. Ifanyone was to get hold of it, and find that they could cross rivers andseas without any trouble, they would never discover how to cross themfor themselves. I am a witch, and if I had chosen I could easily havecast my spells over the Bad One, and have made him deliver them toyou the first day you came into my hut. But then you would never havefasted, and never have planned how to get what you wanted, and neverhave known the good spirits, and would have been fat and idle to the endof your days. And now go. in that hut, which you can just see far away,live your father and mother, who are old people now, and need a son tohunt for them. You have done what you were set to do, and I need you nomore.'Then Ball Carrier remembered his parents and went back to them.