WaterOnce upon a time an old man and his wife lived together in a littlevillage. They might have been happy if only the old woman had had thesense to hold her tongue at proper times. But anything which might happenindoors, or any bit of news which her husband might bring in when he hadbeen anywhere, had to be told at once to the whole village, and thesetales were repeated and altered until it often happened that much mischiefwas made, and the old man's back paid for it.One day, he drove to the forest. When he reached the edge of it he gotout of his cart and walked beside it. Suddenly he stepped on such a softspot that his foot sank in the earth."What can this be?" thought he. "I'll dig a bit and see."So he dug and dug, and at last he came on a little pot full of gold andsilver."Oh, what luck! Now, if only I knew how I could take this treasure homewith me   but I can never hope to hide it from my wife, and once sheknows of it she'll tell all the world, and then I shall get intotrouble."He sat down and thought over the matter a long time, and at last hemade a plan. He covered up the pot again with earth and twigs, and droveon into the town, where he bought a live pike and a live hare in themarket. Then he drove back to the forest and hung the pike up at the verytop of a tree, and tied up the hare in a fishing net and fastened it onthe edge of a little stream, not troubling himself to think how unpleasantsuch a wet spot was likely to be to the hare. Then he got into his cartand trotted merrily home."Wife!" cried he, the moment he got indoors. "You can't think what apiece of good luck has come our way.""What, what, dear husband? Do tell me all about it at once.""No, no, you'll just go on and tell everyone.""No, indeed! How can you think such things! For shame! If you like Iwill swear never to   ""Oh, well! If you are really in earnest then, listen."And he whispered in her ear, "I've found a pot full of gold and silverin the forest! Hush!   ""And why didn't you bring it back?""Because we'll drive there together and bring it carefully back betweenus."So the man and his wife drove to the forest. As they were driving alongthe man said, "What strange things one hears, wife! I was told only theother day that fish will now live and thrive in the tree tops and thatsome wild animals spend their time in the water. Well, well! Times arecertainly changed.""Why, you must be crazy, husband! Dear, dear, what nonsense people dotalk sometimes.""Nonsense, indeed! Why, just look. Bless my soul, if there isn't afish, a real pike I do believe, up in that tree.""Gracious!" cried his wife. "How did a pike get there? It is apike   you needn't attempt to say it's not. Can people have said true  "But the man only shook his head and shrugged his shoulders and openedhis mouth and gaped as if he really could not believe his own eyes."What are you standing staring at there, stupid?" said his wife. "Climbup the tree quick and catch the pike, and we'll cook it for dinner."The man climbed up the tree and brought down the pike, and they droveon. When they got near the stream he drew up."What are you staring at again?" asked his wife impatiently. "Drive on,can't you?""Why, I seem to see something moving in that net I set. I must just goand see what it is."He ran to it, and when he had looked in it he called to his wife, "Justlook! Here is actually a four footed creature caught in the net. I dobelieve it's a hare.""Good heavens!" cried his wife. "How did the hare get into your net? Itis a hare, so you needn't say it isn't. After all, people must havesaid the truth   "But her husband only shook his head and shrugged his shoulders as if hecould not believe his own eyes."Now what are you standing there for, stupid?" cried his wife. "Take upthe hare. A nice fat hare is a dinner for a feast day."The old man caught up the hare, and they drove on to the place wherethe treasure was buried. They swept the twigs away, dug up the earth, tookout the pot, and drove home again with it. And now the old couple hadplenty of money and were cheery and comfortable. But the wife was veryfoolish. Every day she asked a lot of people to dinner and feasted them,until her husband grew quite impatient. He tried to reason with her, butshe would not listen."You've got no right to lecture me!" said she. "We found the treasuretogether, and together we will spend it."Her husband took patience, but at length he said to her, "You may do asyou please, but I shan't give you another penny."The old woman was very angry. "Oh, what a good for nothing fellow towant to spend all the money himself! But just wait a bit and see what Ishall do."Off she went to the governor to complain of her husband."Oh, my lord, protect me from my husband! Ever since he found thetreasure there is no bearing him. He only eats and drinks, and won't work,and he keeps all the money to himself."The governor took pity on the woman, and ordered his chief secretary tolook into the matter. The secretary called the elders of the villagetogether, and went with them to the man's house."The governor," said he, "desires you to give all that treasure youfound into my care."The man shrugged his shoulders and said, "What treasure? I know nothingabout a treasure.""How? You know nothing? Why your wife has complained of you. Don'tattempt to tell lies. If you don't hand over all the money at once youwill be tried for daring to raise treasure without giving due notice tothe governor about it.""Pardon me, your excellency, but what sort of treasure was it supposedto have been? My wife must have dreamt of it, and you gentlemen havelistened to her nonsense.""Nonsense, indeed," broke in his wife. "A kettle full of gold andsilver, do you call that nonsense?""You are not in your right mind, dear wife. Sir, I beg your pardon. Askher how it all happened, and if she convinces you I'll pay for it with mylife.""This is how it all happened, Mr. Secretary," cried the wife. "We weredriving through the forest, and we saw a pike up in the top of a tree  ""What, a pike?" shouted the secretary. "Do you think you mayjoke with me, pray?""Indeed, I'm not joking, Mr. Secretary! I'm speaking the baretruth.""Now you see, gentlemen," said her husband, "how far you can trust her,when she chatters like this.""Chatter, indeed? I! Perhaps you have forgotten, too, how we found alive hare in the river?"Everyone roared with laughter. even the secretary smiled and strokedhis beard, and the man said, "Come, come, wife, everyone is laughing atyou. You see for yourself, gentlemen, how far you can believe her.""Yes, indeed," said the village elders, "it is certainly the first timewe have heard that hares thrive in the water or fish among the treetops."The secretary could make nothing of it all, and drove back to the town.The old woman was so laughed at that she had to hold her tongue and obeyher husband ever after, and the man bought wares with part of the treasureand moved into the town, where he opened a shop, and prospered, and spentthe rest of his days in peace.