There was a certain school master who had a very stupid pupil. One day, when he did not know his lesson, the master called him "Ass."A fool of a washerman who was passing by, on hearing this, said: "Mr. Teacher, was this boy once a donkey?""Yes," said the master, "he was a donkey, and my teaching has made a man of him."The washerman said: "I have nothing in the world but an ass, and if you can turn him into a man, I shall be delighted to bring him to you.""All right," said the teacher. "Go and bring him."So the washerman came up, thrashing his ass to make him come quickly. and asked the teacher: "How long will it take to turn my ass into a man?""A year's time," replied the teacher.A year after he returned and asked the master where his ass was. The master replied: "Your ass has become the qazi of so and so city, and draws a salary of 1,000 rupees a month, and holds a court."By chance, when the washerman first went to the teacher, the qazi was in the school and knew all about the master. The washerman asked the way to the qazi's court and went on. The qazi did not know him and paid no attention to him.The washerman came back and said to the master: "In truth he has become a great man, and when I went into his court he did not even look at me."The master replied: "Of course, he won't notice you if you approach him in this way as he is a great officer on a high salary. But take a rope and hobble and go into his court and shake them and say: 'Have you forgotten the rope and hobble with which you used to be tied?'"He did as he was told, and then the qazi remembered the circumstance, and he thought: "If I don't get rid somehow of this fellow I shall become a laughingstock."So the qazi gave the washerman a thousand rupees and dismissed him. The washerman showed the master the money, and he took half of it as the feed of the ass. The washerman went home blessing his good luck, and in this way every year he used to receive a present from the qazi and lived a happy man for the rest of his days.