The hunters had hunted the wood for so many years that no wild animalwas any more to be found in it. You might walk from one end to the otherwithout ever seeing a hare, or a deer, or a boar, or hearing the cooingof the doves in their nest. If they were not dead, they had flownelsewhere. Only three creatures remained alive, and they had hiddenthemselves in the thickest part of the forest, high up the mountain.These were a grey furred, long tailed tanuki, his wife the fox, who wasone of his own family, and their little son.The fox and the tanuki were very clever, prudent beasts, and they alsowere skilled in magic, and by this means had escaped the fate of theirunfortunate friends. If they heard the twang of an arrow or saw theglitter of a spear, ever so far off, they lay very still, and werenot to be tempted from their hiding place, if their hunger was ever sogreat, or the game ever so delicious. 'We are not so foolish as to riskour lives,' they said to each other proudly. But at length there camea day when, in spite of their prudence, they seemed likely to die ofstarvation, for no more food was to be had. Something had to be done,but they did not know what.Suddenly a bright thought struck the tanuki. 'I have got a plan,' hecried joyfully to his wife. 'I will pretend to be dead, and you mustchange yourself into a man, and take me to the village for sale. It willbe easy to find a buyer, tanukis' skins are always wanted. then buysome food with the money and come home again. I will manage to escapesomehow, so do not worry about me.'The fox laughed with delight, and rubbed her paws together withsatisfaction. 'Well, next time I will go,' she said, 'and you can sellme.' And then she changed herself into a man, and picking up the stiffbody of the tanuki, set off towards the village. She found him ratherheavy, but it would never have done to let him walk through the wood andrisk his being seen by somebody.As the tanaki had foretold, buyers were many, and the fox handed himover to the person who offered the largest price, and hurried to getsome food with the money. The buyer took the tanuki back to his house,and throwing him into a corner went out. Directly the tanaki found hewas alone, he crept cautiously through a chink of the window, thinking,as he did so, how lucky it was that he was not a fox, and was able toclimb. Once outside, he hid himself in a ditch till it grew dusk, andthen galloped away into the forest.While the food lasted they were all three as happy as kings. but theresoon arrived a day when the larder was as empty as ever. 'It is my turnnow to pretend to be dead,' cried the fox. So the tanuki changed himselfinto a peasant, and started for the village, with his wife's bodyhanging over his shoulder. A buyer was not long in coming forward, andwhile they were making the bargain a wicked thought darted into thetanuki's head, that if he got rid of the fox there would be more foodfor him and his son. So as he put the money in his pocket he whisperedsoftly to the buyer that the fox was not really dead, and that if he didnot take care she might run away from him. The man did not need twicetelling. He gave the poor fox a blow on the head, which put an end toher, and the wicked tanuki went smiling to the nearest shop.In former times he had been very fond of his little son. but since hehad betrayed his wife he seemed to have changed all in a moment, for hewould not give him as much as a bite, and the poor little fellow wouldhave starved had he not found some nuts and berries to eat, and hewaited on, always hoping that his mother would come back.At length some notion of the truth began to dawn on him. but he wascareful to let the old tanuki see nothing, though in his own mind heturned over plans from morning till night, wondering how best he mightavenge his mother.One morning, as the little tanuki was sitting with his father, heremembered, with a start, that his mother had taught him all she knew ofmagic, and that he could work spells as well as his father, or perhapsbetter. 'I am as good a wizard as you,' he said suddenly, and a coldchill ran through the tanuki as he heard him, though he laughed, andpretended to think it a joke. But the little tanaki stuck to his point,and at last the father proposed they should have a wager.'Change yourself into any shape you like,' said he, 'and I willundertake to know you. I will go and wait on the bridge which leads overthe river to the village, and you shall transform yourself into anythingyou please, but I will know you through any disguise.' The little tanukiagreed, and went down the road which his father had pointed out. Butinstead of transforming himself into a different shape, he just hidhimself in a corner of the bridge, where he could see without beingseen.He had not been there long when his father arrived and took up his placenear the middle of the bridge, and soon after the king came by, followedby a troop of guards and all his court.'Ah! he thinks that now he has changed himself into a king I shallnot know him,' thought the old tanuki, and as the king passed in hissplendid carriage, borne by his servants, he jumped upon it crying: 'Ihave won my wager. you cannot deceive me.' But in reality it was he whohad deceived himself. The soldiers, conceiving that their king was beingattacked, seized the tanuki by the legs and flung him over into theriver, and the water closed over him.And the little tanoki saw it all, and rejoiced that his mother's deathhad been avenged. Then he went back to the forest, and if he has notfound it too lonely, he is probably living there still.