Many, many years ago there lived a good old man who had a wen like atennis ball growing out of his right cheek. This lump was a greatdisfigurement to the old man, and so annoyed him that for many years hespent all his time and money in trying to get rid of it. He triedeverything he could think of. He consulted many doctors far and near,and took all kinds of medicines both internally and externally. But itwas all of no use. The lump only grew bigger and bigger till it wasnearly as big as his face, and in despair he gave up all hopes of everlosing it, and resigned himself to the thought of having to carry thelump on his face all his life.One day the firewood gave out in his kitchen, so, as his wife wantedsome at once, the old man took his ax and set out for the woods upamong the hills not very far from his home. It was a fine day in theearly autumn, and the old man enjoyed the fresh air and was in no hurryto get home. So the whole afternoon passed quickly while he waschopping wood, and he had collected a goodly pile to take back to hiswife. When the day began to draw to a close, he turned his facehomewards.The old man had not gone far on his way down the mountain pass when thesky clouded and rain began to fall heavily. He looked about for someshelter, but there was not even a charcoal burner's hut near. At lasthe espied a large hole in the hollow trunk of a tree. The hole was nearthe ground, so he crept in easily, and sat down in hopes that he hadonly been overtaken by a mountain shower, and that the weather wouldsoon clear.But much to the old man's disappointment, instead of clearing the rainfell more and more heavily, and finally a heavy thunderstorm broke overthe mountain. The thunder roared so terrifically, and the heavensseemed to be so ablaze with lightning, that the old man could hardlybelieve himself to be alive. He thought that he must die of fright. Atlast, however, the sky cleared, and the whole country was aglow in therays of the setting sun. The old man's spirits revived when he lookedout at the beautiful twilight, and he was about to step out from hisstrange hiding place in the hollow tree when the sound of what seemedlike the approaching steps of several people caught his ear. He at oncethought that his friends had come to look for him, and he was delightedat the idea of having some jolly companions with whom to walk home. Buton looking out from the tree, what was his amazement to see, not hisfriends, but hundreds of demons coming towards the spot. The more helooked, the greater was his astonishment. Some of these demons were aslarge as giants, others had great big eyes out of all proportion to therest of their bodies, others again had absurdly long noses, and somehad such big mouths that they seemed to open from ear to ear. All hadhorns growing on their foreheads. The old man was so surprised at whathe saw that he lost his balance and fell out of the hollow tree.Fortunately for him the demons did not see him, as the tree was in thebackground. So he picked himself up and crept back into the tree.While he was sitting there and wondering impatiently when he would beable to get home, he heard the sounds of gay music, and then some ofthe demons began to sing."What are these creatures doing?" said the old man to himself. "I willlook out, it sounds very amusing."On peeping out, the old man saw that the demon chief himself wasactually sitting with his back against the tree in which he had takenrefuge, and all the other demons were sitting round, some drinking andsome dancing. Food and wine was spread before them on the ground, andthe demons were evidently having a great entertainment and enjoyingthemselves immensely.It made the old man laugh to see their strange antics."How amusing this is!" laughed the old man to himself "I am now quiteold, but I have never seen anything so strange in all my life."He was so interested and excited in watching all that the demons weredoing, that he forgot himself and stepped out of the tree and stoodlooking on.The demon chief was just taking a big cup of SAKE and watching one ofthe demons dancing. In a little while he said with a bored air:"Your dance is rather monotonous. I am tired of watching it. Isn'tthere any one amongst you all who can dance better than this fellow?"Now the old man had been fond of dancing all his life, and was quite anexpert in the art, and he knew that he could do much better than thedemon."Shall I go and dance before these demons and let them see what a humanbeing can do? It may be dangerous, for if I don't please them they maykill me!" said the old fellow to himself.His fears, however, were soon overcome by his love of dancing. In a fewminutes he could restrain himself no longer, and came out before thewhole party of demons and began to dance at once. The old man,realizing that his life probably depended on whether he pleased thesestrange creatures or not, exerted his skill and wit to the utmost.The demons were at first very surprised to see a man so fearlesslytaking part in their entertainment, and then their surprise soon gaveplace to admiration."How strange!" exclaimed the horned chief. "I never saw such a skillfuldancer before! He dances admirably!"When the old man had finished his dance, the big demon said:"Thank you very much for your amusing dance. Now give us the pleasureof drinking a cup of wine with us," and with these words he handed himhis largest wine cup.The old man thanked him very humbly:"I did not expect such kindness from your lordship. I fear I have onlydisturbed your pleasant party by my unskillful dancing.""No, no," answered the big demon. "You must come often and dance forus. Your skill has given us much pleasure."The old man thanked him again and promised to do so."Then will you come again to morrow, old man?" asked the demon."Certainly, I will," answered the old man."Then you must leave some pledge of your word with us," said the demon."Whatever you like," said the old man."Now what is the best thing he can leave with us as a pledge?" askedthe demon, looking round.Then said one of the demon's attendants kneeling behind the chief:"The token he leaves with us must be the most important thing to him inhis possession. I see the old man has a wen on his right cheek. Nowmortal men consider such a wen very fortunate. Let my lord take thelump from the old man's right cheek, and he will surely come to morrow,if only to get that back.""You are very clever," said the demon chief, giving his horns anapproving nod. Then he stretched out a hairy arm and claw like hand,and took the great lump from the old man's right cheek. Strange to say,it came off as easily as a ripe plum from the tree at the demon'stouch, and then the merry troop of demons suddenly vanished.The old man was lost in bewilderment by all that had happened. Hehardly knew for some time where he was. When he came to understand whathad happened to him, he was delighted to find that the lump on hisface, which had for so many years disfigured him, had really been takenaway without any pain to himself. He put up his hand to feel if anyscar remained, but found that his right cheek was as smooth as his left.The sun had long set, and the young moon had risen like a silvercrescent in the sky. The old man suddenly realized how late it was andbegan to hurry home. He patted his right cheek all the time, as if tomake sure of his good fortune in having lost the wen. He was so happythat he found it impossible to walk quietly he ran and danced thewhole way home.He found his wife very anxious, wondering what had happened to make himso late. He soon told her all that had passed since he left home thatafternoon. She was quite as happy as her husband when he showed herthat the ugly lump had disappeared from his face, for in her youth shehad prided herself on his good looks, and it had been a daily grief toher to see the horrid growth.Now next door to this good old couple there lived a wicked anddisagreeable old man. He, too, had for many years been troubled withthe growth of a wen on his left cheek, and he, too, had tried allmanner of things to get rid of it, but in vain.He heard at once, through the servant, of his neighbor's good luck inlosing the lump on his face, so he called that very evening and askedhis friend to tell him everything that concerned the loss of it. Thegood old man told his disagreeable neighbor all that had happened tohim. He described the place where he would find the hollow tree inwhich to hide, and advised him to be on the spot in the late afternoontowards the time of sunset.The old neighbor started out the very next afternoon, and after huntingabout for some time, came to the hollow tree just as his friend haddescribed. Here he hid himself and waited for the twilight.Just as he had been told, the band of demons came at that hour and helda feast with dance and song. When this had gone on for some time thechief of the demons looked around and said:"It is now time for the old man to come as he promised us. Why doesn'the come?"When the second old man heard these words he ran out of hishiding place in the tree and, kneeling down before the Oni, said:"I have been waiting for a long time for you to speak!""Ah, you are the old man of yesterday," said the demon chief. "Thankyou for coming, you must dance for us soon."The old man now stood up and opened his fan and began to dance. But hehad never learned to dance, and knew nothing about the necessarygestures and different positions. He thought that anything would pleasethe demons, so he just hopped about, waving his arms and stamping hisfeet, imitating as well as he could any dancing he had ever seen.The Oni were very dissatisfied at this exhibition, and said amongstthemselves:"How badly he dances to day!"Then to the old man the demon chief said:"Your performance to day is quite different from the dance ofyesterday. We don't wish to see any more of such dancing. We will giveyou back the pledge you left with us. You must go away at once."With these words he took out from a fold of his dress the lump which hehad taken from the face of the old man who had danced so well the daybefore, and threw it at the right cheek of the old man who stood beforehim. The lump immediately attached itself to his cheek as firmly as ifit had grown there always, and all attempts to pull it off wereuseless. The wicked old man, instead of losing the lump on his leftcheek as he had hoped, found to his dismay that he had but addedanother to his right cheek in his attempt to get rid of the first.He put up first one hand and then the other to each side of his face tomake sure if he were not dreaming a horrible nightmare. No, sure enoughthere was now a great wen on the right side of his face as on the left.The demons had all disappeared, and there was nothing for him to do butto return home. He was a pitiful sight, for his face, with the twolarge lumps, one on each side, looked just like a Japanese gourd.