One time there was a boy named Tinktum Tidy, and this boy was mightysmart. He was like a slick three cent piece: little but old. I don't knowwhat they called him in those times, but in these days we'd call him arunt, and laugh at him. Well, this boy had a head on him. He looked likehe was all dried up, but never mind that. Those who got ahead of him hadto get up long before day, and if they didn't take care, they'd find himup before them.One season, when the blackberries were ripe, he went around and toldthe folks that if they'd take their baskets and their buckets and go outand get the blackberries, he'd give them half of what they picked.It was so seldom that the folks got a chance to make any extra moneythat they were mighty glad to have the chance to pick blackberries. Sothey all went out and picked and picked until they picked two wagonloadsof them. Well, this shrunk up boy, who looked like he scarcely had anysense, he divided fair, there are no two ways about that. He took half andgave them their half back.There was no disputing about it. But then when the folks got theirhalf, they asked themselves what they were going to do with them. Theywanted to sell them to Tinktum Tidy, but he said that he had moreblackberries than he knew what to do with. After a while the folks saidthat if they couldn't sell their share of the blackberries, they mightjust as well put them in Tinktum Tidy's pile, and that is what they did.And then he took the two wagonloads to town and sold them for cashmoney.By and by some of the longer headed folks sat down and got to studyingabout it, and they asked themselves how come they got to go out and pickblackberries for that little bit of a shrunk up chap. They studied andstudied, but the more they studied, the more foolish they felt.Well, the tale got out, and it traveled around and around until theking got wind of it, and he took and sent for Tinktum Tidy. This made thefolks that picked the blackberries mighty glad, because they got the ideathat the king was going to put the little shrunk up chap in the calaboosefor fooling them. But Tinktum Tidy wasn't scared. He wrapped up a changeof clothes in his handkerchief, and put out to where the king stayed. Someof the folks went along to see what was going to come of the littleshrunk up chap that had fooled them.By and by they got to where the king lived, and Tinktum Tidy justmarched right in and told them that the king had sent for him. They tookhim into a big room where there was a whole passel of other folks, andtold him to wait there until the king came. Everybody looked at him hard,he was so shrunk up and puny, and he looked right back at them, just likehe was someone of quality. After a while, here came the king. By the timehe got settled on the platform, his eye dropped on Tinktum Tidy, and heasked what that runt was doing there.They up and told the king that that was the chap who was making folkspick so many blackberries. When the king heard this, he lay back andlaughed fit to kill himself. He called Tinktum Tidy up and asked him allabout how he was doing, and then he said, the king did, that Tinktum Tidymust be mighty smart. But Tinktum tidy said that he wasn't the one who wassmart. It was the folks who picked the blackberries, because folks thancan pick so many in so little time must be smart.Then king put his hand into his pocket and pulled out eleven grains ofcorn. He said, "Take this corn and do what you please with it, but what Iwant from it are eleven strong men to put in my army."Tinktum Tidy took the corn and tied it up in one corner of hishandkerchief. He said, "Not counting hurricanes and high water, I'll beback in a fortnight. If eleven strong men were as easy to pick asblackberries, I'd send some other folks, but I'll have to go after thesemen myself."With that he made his bow, he did, and took his foot in his hand andput out. He traveled all that day, and about night he come to a tavern,and there he stopped. The man asked him where he came from, what his namewas, and where he was going. He said he came from Chuckerluckertown, andhe name was Tinktum Tidy, and he was going on a long journey.When bedtime came, he called the man into the room and showed him thecorn. He said, "Here are the eleven grains of corn the that king gave me.I'll lay it on the table. I'm afraid the big gander is going to eatit."The man said he would shut the door so the big gander couldn't get it.Then they all went to bed. Tinktum Tidy waited until everybody was still,and then he got up and dropped the corn through a crack in the floor. Thenhe went to sleep.The next morning he woke up early and alarmed the neighborhood. Hehollered out, "I told you so! I told you so! The big gander ate the elevengrains of corn that the king gave me! The big gander ate the eleven grainsof corn that the king gave me!"Tinktum Tidy hollered so loud and so long that he scared the man. Thenthe man's old woman stuck her head out of the window and set up a squall.She said, "Take the big gander and go away from here! Take him andgo!"Tinktum Tidy took the big gander under his arm and went poling down thebig road. He traveled all that day until night, and he came to anothertown, and he went and put up at the tavern.When bedtime came, he tied the gander by the leg to the bedstead, andthen he called the man. "Here is the big gander that ate the eleven grainsof corn that the king gave me. I'll tie him here, because I'm afraid thebah bah black sheep will kill him."The man said, "The black sheep can't get him here."In the middle of the night Tinktum Tidy got up and broke the biggander's neck and flung him out into the barnyard.The next morning he got up early and began to holler. He said, "I toldyou so! I told you so! Bah bah black sheep has killed the big gander thatate the eleven grains of corn that the king gave me!"When the man heard him talk of the king, he got scared. It made himshake in his shoes. He said, "Take bah bah black sheep and go along! Youhave fetched me bad luck!"Then Tinktum Tidy fastened bah bah black sheep with a rope and led himoff down the big road. By and by he came to where there was another town,and he went and put up at the tavern.When bedtime came, he called the man. He said, "Here is the bah bahblack sheep that killed the big gander that ate the eleven grains of cornthat the king gave me. I'll tie him here to the bedstead because I'mafraid the brindle cow will hook him."The man said, "The brindle cow can't get him in here."Between midnight and day, Tinktum Tidy got up and killed the blacksheep and put him in the lot with the brindle cow.Then he got up early in the morning and began to holler. He said, "Itold you so! I told you so! The brindle cow has killed the bah bah blacksheep that killed the big gander that ate the eleven grains of corn theking gave me!"This made the man feel scared. He said, "Take the brindle cow andgo!"Tinktum Tidy led the brindle cow off down the road and made his way tothe next town. He got there by the time night came, and put up at thetavern.When bedtime came he took and called the man. He said, "Here is thebrindle cow that killed the bah bah black sheep that killed the big ganderthat ate the eleven grains of corn that the king gave me. I'll tie herhere by the chimney where the roan horse can't get her."The man said, "I know mighty well the roan horse can't get herhere."Just before day Tinktum Tidy took the brindle cow into the stable andmade away with her.Then when daylight came he began to holler. He said, "I told you so! Itold you so! The roan horse has killed the brindle cow that killed thebah bah black sheep that killed the big gander that ate the eleven grainsof corn that the king gave me."The man got scared when he heard the name of the king, and he said,"Take the roan horse and go on where you are going!"Tinktum Tidy got on the roan horse and went trotting down the big road.He went on and went on, he did, until he came a place where he had tocross a creek. Close by the road he saw an old man sitting. He looked atthe old man, and the old man looked an him.By and by the old man said, "Howdy, son!"Tinktum Tidy said, "Howdy, grandsir!"The man said, "Son, come wipe my eyes!"Tinktum Tidy said, "I'll wife them, grandsir, if it will do you anygood." Then he got down off the roan horse and wiped the old man'seyes.The old man said, "Thank you, son! Thank you!"Tinktum Tidy said, "You are more than welcome, grandsir!" Then he goton the roan hors and was about to ride off.The old man said, "Son, come scratch my head!"Tinktum Tidy said, "I'll scratch your head, grandsir, if it will do youany good." Then he got down off the roan horse and scratched the old man'shead.The old man said, "Thank you, son! Thank you!"Tinktum Tidy said, "You are more than welcome, grandsir!"Then he started to ride off again, but the old man said, "Son, comehelp me up!"Tinktum Tidy said, "I'll help you up, Grandsir, if it will do you anygood!"So he went and helped him up, and it seemed like that when the old mangot on his feet he strength came back. He straightened up, he did, andlooked lots younger than what he had.He said, "Son I have been sitting here going on ten years, and you theonly one that ever did what I asked him. Some laughed at me and somecussed at me, but all went on their way, and everyone that passed fell inwith the eleven robbers that live down the road a piece, and got robbed.Now beings you did what I asked you, I'm more than willing to do what youask of me."With that Tinktum Tidy up and told the old man how come he was goingalong there, and about how the kind wanted him to fetch back eleven strongmen to go into the army.The man said, "Son, they are waiting for you right down the road. Keepright on until you come to where there's a big white house. Ride aroundthat house seven times one way and seven time the other way, and say thewords that come into your head. Don't get scared, because I won't be somight far off."Tinktum Tidy road off down the road, he did, and went on until he cameto the big white house. Then he rode around it seven times one way andseven times the other way.He said, "This is the roan horse that killed the brindle cow thatkilled the bah bah black sheep that killed the big gander that ate theeleven grains of corn that the king gave me. I want eleven strong men forthe king's army."And the door of the big white house flew open, and eleven strong mencame marching out. By that time the old man had come up, and they askedhim what they were to do.He said, "Mount your horses, sons, and go join the king's army!"So they went, and the king was mighty proud. He looked around ateverybody and said, "I told you so! and He fixed it up so that TinktumTidy had just as much as he could eat and mighty little work to do all therest of his days.