Far away in a hot country, where the forests are very thick and dark,and the rivers very swift and strong, there once lived a strange pairof friends. Now one of the friends was a big white rabbit named Isuro,and the other was a tall baboon called Gudu, and so fond were they ofeach other that they were seldom seen apart.One day, when the sun was hotter even than usual, the rabbit awoke fromhis midday sleep, and saw Gudu the baboon standing beside him.'Get up,' said Gudu. 'I am going courting, and you must come with me.So put some food in a bag, and sling it round your neck, for we may notbe able to find anything to eat for a long while.'Then the rabbit rubbed his eyes, and gathered a store of fresh greenthings from under the bushes, and told Gudu that he was ready for thejourney.They went on quite happily for some distance, and at last they came toa river with rocks scattered here and there across the stream.'We can never jump those wide spaces if we are burdened with food,'said Gudu, 'we must throw it into the river, unless we wish to fall inourselves.' And stooping down, unseen by Isuro, who was in front ofhim, Gudu picked up a big stone, and threw it into the water with aloud splash.'It is your turn now,' he cried to Isuro. And with a heavy sigh, therabbit unfastened his bag of food, which fell into the river.The road on the other side led down an avenue of trees, and before theyhad gone very far Gudu opened the bag that lay hidden in the thick hairabout his neck, and began to eat some delicious looking fruit.'Where did you get that from?' asked Isuro enviously.'Oh, I found after all that I could get across the rocks quite easily,so it seemed a pity not to keep my bag,' answered Gudu.'Well, as you tricked me into throwing away mine, you ought to let meshare with you,' said Isuro. But Gudu pretended not to hear him, andstrode along the path.By and bye they entered a wood, and right in front of them was a treeso laden with fruit that its branches swept the ground. And some ofthe fruit was still green, and some yellow. The rabbit hopped forwardwith joy, for he was very hungry. but Gudu said to him: 'Pluck thegreen fruit, you will find it much the best. I will leave it all foryou, as you have had no dinner, and take the yellow for myself.' Sothe rabbit took one of the green oranges and began to bite it, but itsskin was so hard that he could hardly get his teeth through the rind.'It does not taste at all nice,' he cried, screwing up his face. 'Iwould rather have one of the yellow ones.''No! no! I really could not allow that,' answered Gudu. 'They wouldonly make you ill. Be content with the green fruit.' And as they wereall he could get, Isuro was forced to put up with them.After this had happened two or three times, Isuro at last had his eyesopened, and made up his mind that, whatever Gudu told him, he would doexactly the opposite. However, by this time they had reached thevillage where dwelt Gudu's future wife, and as they entered Gudupointed to a clump of bushes, and said to Isuro: 'Whenever I am eating,and you hear me call out that my food has burnt me, run as fast as youcan and gather some of those leaves that they may heal my mouth.'The rabbit would have liked to ask him why he ate food that he knewwould burn him, only he was afraid, and just nodded in reply. but whenthey had gone on a little further, he said to Gudu:'I have dropped my needle. wait here a moment while I go and fetch it.''Be quick then,' answered Gudu, climbing into a tree. And the rabbithastened back to the bushes, and gathered a quantity of the leaves,which he hid among his fur, 'For,' thought he, 'if I get them now Ishall save myself the trouble of a walk by and by.'When he had plucked as many as he wanted he returned to Gudu, and theywent on together.The sun was almost setting by the time they reached their journey'send and being very tired they gladly sat down by a well. Then Gudu'sbetrothed, who had been watching for him, brought out a pitcher ofwater which she poured over them to wash off the dust of the road andtwo portions of food. But once again the rabbit's hopes were dashed tothe ground, for Gudu said hastily:'The custom of the village forbids you to eat till I have finished.'And Isuro did not know that Gudu was lying, and that he only wantedmore food. So he saw hungrily looking on, waiting till his friend hadhad enough.In a little while Gudu screamed loudly: 'I am burnt! I am burnt!'though he was not burnt at all. Now, though Isuro had the leaves abouthim, he did not dare to produce them at the last moment lest the baboonshould guess why he had stayed behind. So he just went round a cornerfor a short time, and then came hopping back in a great hurry. But,quick though he was, Gudu had been quicker still, and nothing remainedbut some drops of water.'How unlucky you are,' said Gudu, snatching the leaves. 'no sooner hadyou gone than ever so many people arrived, and washed their hands, asyou see, and ate your portion.' But, though Isuro knew better than tobelieve him, he said nothing, and went to bed hungrier than he had everbeen in his life.Early next morning they started for another village, and passed on theway a large garden where people were very busy gathering monkey  nuts.'You can have a good breakfast at last,' said Gudu, pointing to a heapof empty shells. never doubting but that Isuro would meekly take theportion shown him, and leave the real nuts for himself. But what washis surprise when Isuro answered:'Thank you. I think I should prefer these.' And, turning to thekernels, never stopped as long as there was one left. And the worst ofit was that, with so many people about, Gudu could not take the nutsfrom him.It was night when they reached the village where dwelt the mother ofGudu's betrothed, who laid meat and millet porridge before them.'I think you told me you were fond of porridge,' said Gudu. but Isuroanswered: 'You are mistaking me for somebody else, as I always eat meatwhen I can get it.' And again Gudu was forced to be content with theporridge, which he hated.While he was eating it, however a sudden thought darted into his mind,and he managed to knock over a great pot of water which was hanging infront of the fire, and put it quite out.'Now,' said the cunning creature to himself, 'I shall be able in thedark to steal his meat!' But the rabbit had grown as cunning as he,and standing in a corner hid the meat behind him, so that the babooncould not find it.'O Gudu!' he cried, laughing aloud, 'it is you who have taught me to beclever.' And calling to the people of the house, he bade them kindlethe fire, for Gudu would sleep by it, but that he would pass the nightwith some friends in another hut.It was still quite dark when Isuro heard his name called very softly,and, on opening his eyes, beheld Gudu standing by him. Laying hisfinger on his nose, in token of silence, he signed to Isuro to get upand follow him, and it was not until they were some distance from thehut that Gudu spoke.'I am hungry and want something to eat better than that nasty porridgethat I had for supper. So I am going to kill one of those goats, andas you are a good cook you must boil the flesh for me.' The rabbitnodded, and Gudu disappeared behind a rock, but soon returned draggingthe dead goat with him. The two then set about skinning it, afterwhich they stuffed the skin with dried leaves, so that no one wouldhave guessed it was not alive, and set it up in the middle of a lump ofbushes, which kept it firm on its feet. While he was doing this, Isurocollected sticks for a fire, and when it was kindled, Gudu hastened toanother hut to steal a pot which he filled with water from the river,and, planting two branches in the ground, they hung the pot with themeat in it over the fire.'It will not be fit to eat for two hours at least,' said Gudu, 'so wecan both have a nap.' And he stretched himself out on the ground, andpretended to fall fast asleep, but, in reality, he was only waitingtill it was safe to take all the meat for himself. 'Surely I hear himsnore,' he thought. and he stole to the place where Isuro was lying ona pile of wood, but the rabbit's eyes were wide open.'How tiresome,' muttered Gudu, as he went back to his place. and afterwaiting a little longer he got up, and peeped again, but still therabbit's pink eyes stared widely. If Gudu had only known, Isuro wasasleep all the time. but this he never guessed, and by and  bye he grewso tired with watching that he went to sleep himself. Soon after,Isuro woke up, and he too felt hungry, so he crept softly to the potand ate all the meat, while he tied the bones together and hung them inGudu's fur. After that he went back to the wood pile and slept again.In the morning the mother of Gudu's betrothed came out to milk hergoats, and on going to the bushes where the largest one seemedentangled, she found out the trick. She made such lament that thepeople of the village came running, and Gudu and Isuro jumped up also,and pretended to be as surprised and interested as the rest. But theymust have looked guilty after all, for suddenly an old man pointed tothem, and cried:'Those are thieves.' And at the sound of his voice the big Gudutrembled all over.'How dare you say such things? I defy you to prove it,' answered Isuroboldly. And he danced forward, and turned head over heels, and shookhimself before them all.'I spoke hastily. you are innocent,' said the old man. 'but now let thebaboon do likewise.' And when Gudu began to jump the goat's bonesrattled and the people cried: 'It is Gudu who is the goat slayer!' ButGudu answered:'Nay, I did not kill your goat. it was Isuro, and he ate the meat, andhung the bones round my neck. So it is he who should die!' And thepeople looked at each other, for they knew not what to believe. Atlength one man said:'Let them both die, but they may choose their own deaths.'Then Isuro answered:'If we must die, put us in the place where the wood is cut, and heap itup all round us, so that we cannot escape, and set fire to the wood.and if one is burned and the other is not, then he that is burned isthe goat  slayer.'And the people did as Isuro had said. But Isuro knew of a hole underthe wood pile, and when the fire was kindled he ran into the hole, butGudu died there.When the fire had burned itself out and only ashes were left where thewood had been, Isuro came out of his hole, and said to the people:'Lo! did I not speak well? He who killed your goat is among thoseashes.'