Once upon a time there lived a miller who was so rich that, when he wasgoing to be married, he asked to the feast not only his own friends butalso the wild animals who dwelt in the hills and woods round about. Thechief of the bears, the wolves, the foxes, the horses, the cows, thegoats, the sheep, and the reindeer, all received invitations. and asthey were not accustomed to weddings they were greatly pleased andflattered, and sent back messages in the politest language that theywould certainly be there.The first to start on the morning of the wedding day was the bear, whoalways liked to be punctual. and, besides, he had a long way to go, andhis hair, being so thick and rough, needed a good brushing before it wasfit to be seen at a party. However, he took care to awaken very early,and set off down the road with a light heart. Before he had walked veryfar he met a boy who came whistling along, hitting at the tops of theflowers with a stick.'Where are you going?' said he, looking at the bear in surprise, for hewas an old acquaintance, and not generally so smart.'Oh, just to the miller's marriage,' answered the bear carelessly. 'Ofcourse, I would much rather stay at home, but the miller was so anxiousI should be there that I really could not refuse.''Don't go, don't go!' cried the boy. 'If you do you will never comeback! You have got the most beautiful skin in the world just the kindthat everyone is wanting, and they will be sure to kill you and stripyou of it.''I had not thought of that,' said the bear, whose face turned white,only nobody could see it. 'If you are certain that they would be sowicked but perhaps you are jealous because nobody has invited you?''Oh, nonsense!' replied the boy angrily, 'do as you see. It is yourskin, and not mine. I don't care what becomes of it!' And he walkedquickly on with his head in the air.The bear waited until he was out of sight, and then followed him slowly,for he felt in his heart that the boy's advice was good, though he wastoo proud to say so.The boy soon grew tired of walking along the road, and turned off intothe woods, where there were bushes he could jump and streams he couldwade. but he had not gone far before he met the wolf.'Where are you going?' asked he, for it was not the first time he hadseen him.'Oh, just to the miller's marriage,' answered the wolf, as the bear haddone before him. 'It is rather tiresome, of course weddings are alwaysso stupid. but still one must be good natured!''Don't go!' said the boy again. 'Your skin is so thick and warm, andwinter is not far off now. They will kill you, and strip it from you.'The wolf's jaw dropped in astonishment and terror. 'Do you really thinkthat would happen?' he gasped.'Yes, to be sure, I do,' answered the boy. 'But it is your affair, notmine. So good morning,' and on he went. The wolf stood still for a fewminutes, for he was trembling all over, and then crept quietly back tohis cave.Next the boy met the fox, whose lovely coat of silvery grey was shiningin the sun.'You look very fine!' said the boy, stopping to admire him, 'are yougoing to the miller's wedding too?''Yes,' answered the fox. 'it is a long journey to take for such a thingas that, but you know what the miller's friends are like so dull andheavy! It is only kind to go and amuse them a little.''You poor fellow,' said the boy pityingly. 'Take my advice and stayat home. If you once enter the miller's gate his dogs will tear you inpieces.''Ah, well, such things have occurred, I know,' replied the fox gravely.And without saying any more he trotted off the way he had come.His tail had scarcely disappeared, when a great noise of crashingbranches was heard, and up bounded the horse, his black skin glisteninglike satin.'Good morning,' he called to the boy as he galloped past, 'I can't waitto talk to you now. I have promised the miller to be present at hiswedding feast, and they won't sit down till I come.''Stop! stop!' cried the boy after him, and there was something in hisvoice that made the horse pull up. 'What is the matter?' asked he.'You don't know what you are doing,' said the boy. 'If once you go thereyou will never gallop through these woods any more. You are strongerthan many men, but they will catch you and put ropes round you, and youwill have to work and to serve them all the days of your life.'The horse threw back his head at these words, and laughed scornfully.'Yes, I am stronger than many men,' answered he, 'and all the ropes inthe world would not hold me. Let them bind me as fast as they will, Ican always break loose, and return to the forest and freedom.'And with this proud speech he gave a whisk of his long tail, andgalloped away faster than before.But when he reached the miller's house everything happened as the boyhad said. While he was looking at the guests and thinking how muchhandsomer and stronger he was than any of them, a rope was suddenlyflung over his head, and he was thrown down and a bit thrust between histeeth. Then, in spite of his struggles, he was dragged to a stable, andshut up for several days without any food, till his spirit was brokenand his coat had lost its gloss. After that he was harnessed to aplough, and had plenty of time to remember all he had lost through notlistening to the counsel of the boy.When the horse had turned a deaf ear to his words the boy wandered idlyalong, sometimes gathering wild strawberries from a bank, and sometimesplucking wild cherries from a tree, till he reached a clearing inthe middle of the forest. Crossing this open space was a beautifulmilk white cow with a wreath of flowers round her neck.'Good morning,' she said pleasantly, as she came up to the place wherethe boy was standing.'Good morning,' he returned. 'Where are you going in such a hurry?''To the miller's wedding. I am rather late already, for the wreath tooksuch a long time to make, so I can't stop.''Don't go,' said the boy earnestly.' when once they have tasted yourmilk they will never let you leave them, and you will have to serve themall the days of your life.''Oh, nonsense. what do you know about it?' answered the cow, who alwaysthought she was wiser than other people. 'Why, I can run twice as fastas any of them! I should like to see anybody try to keep me against mywill.' And, without even a polite bow, she went on her way, feeling verymuch offended.But everything turned out just as the boy had said. The company hadall heard of the fame of the cow's milk, and persuaded her to give themsome, and then her doom was sealed. A crowd gathered round her, and heldher horns so that she could not use them, and, like the horse, she wasshut in the stable, and only let out in the mornings, when a long ropewas tied round her head, and she was fastened to a stake in a grassymeadow.And so it happened to the goat and to the sheep.Last of all came the reindeer, looking as he always did, as if someserious business was on hand.'Where are you going?' asked the boy, who by this time was tired of wildcherries, and was thinking of his dinner.'I am invited to the wedding,' answered the reindeer, 'and the millerhas begged me on no account to fail him.''O fool!' cried the boy, 'have you no sense at all? Don't you know thatwhen you get there they will hold you fast, for neither beast nor birdis as strong or as swift as you?''That is exactly why I am quite safe,' replied the reindeer. 'I am sostrong that no one can bind me, and so swift that not even an arrow cancatch me. So, goodbye for the present, you will soon see me back.'But none of the animals that went to the miller's wedding ever cameback. And because they were self willed and conceited, and would notlisten to good advice, they and their children have been the servants ofmen to this very day.