Wen There was once an old man who had a wen onhis right cheek. This disfigurement caused him a good deal of annoyance,and he had spent a considerable sum of money in trying to get rid of it.He took various medicines and applied many lotions, but instead of the wendisappearing or even diminishing, it increased in size. One night,while the old man was returning home laden with firewood, he was overtakenby a terrible thunderstorm, and was forced to seek shelter in a hollowtree. When the storm had abated, and just as he was about to proceed onhis journey, he was surprised to hear a sound of merriment close at hand.On peeping out from his place of retreat, he was amazed to see a number ofdemons dancing and singing and drinking. Their dancing was so strangethat the old man, forgetting caution, began to laugh, and eventually leftthe tree in order that he might see the performance better. As he stoodwatching, he saw that a demon was dancing by himself, and, moreover, thatthe chief of the company was none too pleased with his very clumsy antics.At length the leader of the demons said: "Enough! Is there no one who candance better than this fellow?" When the old man heard these words, itseemed that his youth returned to him again, and having at one time beenan expert dancer, he offered to show his skill. So the old man dancedbefore that strange gathering of demons, who congratulated him on hisperformance, offered him a cup of sak, and begged that he would give themthe pleasure of several other dances. The old man was extremelygratified by the way he had been received, and when the chief of thedemons asked him to dance before them on the following night, he readilycomplied. "That is well," said the chief, "but you must leave some pledgebehind you. I see that you have a wen on your right cheek, and that willmake an excellent pledge. Allow me to take it off for you." Withoutinflicting any pain, the chief removed the wen, and having accomplishedthis extraordinary feat, he and his companions suddenly vanished. Theold man, as he walked towards his home, kept on feeling his right cheekwith his hand, and could scarcely realize that after many years ofdisfigurement he had at last the good fortune to lose his troublesome andunsightly wen. At length he entered his humble abode, wife was none theless pleased with what had taken place. A wicked and cantankerous oldman lived next door to this good old couple. For many years he had beenafflicted with a wen on his left cheek, which had failed to yield to allmanner of medical treatment. When he heard of his neighbor's goodfortune, he called upon him and listened to the strange adventures withthe demons. The good old man told his neighbor where he might find thehollow tree, and advised him to hide in it just before sunset. Thewicked old man found the hollow tree and entered it. He had not remainedconcealed more than a few minutes when he rejoiced to see the demons.Presently one of the company said: "The old man is a long time coming. Imade sure he would keep his promise." At these words the old man creptout of his hiding place, flourished his fan, and began to dance. but,unfortunately, he knew nothing about dancing, and his extraordinary anticscaused the demons to express considerable dissatisfaction. "You danceextremely ill," said one of the company, "and the sooner you stop thebetter we shall be pleased. but before you depart we will return thepledge you left with us last night." Having uttered these words, the demonflung the wen at the right cheek of the old man, where it remained firmlyfixed, and could not be removed. So the wicked old man, who had tried todeceive the demons, went away with a wen on either side of his face.