In a country there was a Raja who had an only son who every day wentout to hunt. One day the Rani, his mother, said to him, "You can huntwherever you like on these three sides. but you must never go to thefourth side." This she said because she knew if he went on the fourthside he would hear of the beautiful Princess Labam, and that then hewould leave his father and mother and seek for the princess.The young prince listened to his mother, and obeyed her for some time.but one day, when he was hunting on the three sides where he wasallowed to go, he remembered what she had said to him about the fourthside, and he determined to go and see why she had forbidden him tohunt on that side. When he got there, he found himself in a jungle,and nothing in the jungle but a quantity of parrots, who lived in it.The young Raja shot at some of them, and at once they all flew away upto the sky. All, that is, but one, and this was their Raja, who wascalled Hiraman parrot.When Hiraman parrot found himself left alone, he called out to theother parrots, "Don't fly away and leave me alone when the Raja's sonshoots. If you desert me like this, I will tell the Princess Labam."Then the parrots all flew back to their Raja, chattering. The princewas greatly surprised, and said, "Why, these birds can talk!" Then hesaid to the parrots, "Who is the Princess Labam? Where does she live?"But the parrots would not tell him where she lived. "You can never getto the Princess Labam's country." That is all they would say.The prince grew very sad when they would not tell him anything more.and he threw his gun away, and went home. When he got home, he wouldnot speak or eat, but lay on his bed for four or five days, and seemedvery ill.At last he told his father and mother that he wanted to go and see thePrincess Labam. "I must go," he said. "I must see what she is like.Tell me where her country is.""We do not know where it is," answered his father and mother."Then I must go and look for it," said the prince."No, no," they said, "you must not leave us. You are our only son.Stay with us. You will never find the Princess Labam.""I must try and find her," said the prince. "Perhaps God will show methe way. If I live and I find her, I will come back to you. butperhaps I shall die, and then I shall never see you again. Still Imust go."So they had to let him go, though they cried very much at parting withhim. His father gave him fine clothes to wear, and a fine horse. Andhe took his gun, and his bow and arrows, and a great many otherweapons, "for," he said, "I may want them." His father, too, gave himplenty of rupees.Then he himself got his horse all ready for the journey, and he saidgood bye to his father and mother. and his mother took herhandkerchief and wrapped some sweetmeats in it, and gave it to herson. "My child," she said to him, "When you are hungry eat some ofthese sweetmeats."He then set out on his journey, and rode on and on till he came to ajungle in which were a tank and shady trees. He bathed himself and hishorse in the tank, and then sat down under a tree. "Now," he said tohimself, "I will eat some of the sweetmeats my mother gave me, and Iwill drink some water, and then I will continue my journey." He openedhis handkerchief, and took out a sweetmeat. He found an ant in it. Hetook out another. There was an ant in that one too. So he laid the twosweetmeats on the ground, and he took out another, and another, andanother, until he had taken them all out. but in each he found an ant."Never mind," he said, "I won't eat the sweetmeats. the ants shall eatthem." Then the Ant Raja came and stood before him and said, "You havebeen good to us. If ever you are in trouble, think of me and we willcome to you."The Raja's son thanked him, mounted his horse and continued hisjourney. He rode on and on until he came to another jungle, and therehe saw a tiger who had a thorn in his foot, and was roaring loudlyfrom the pain."Why do you roar like that?" said the young Raja. "What is the matterwith you?""I have had a thorn in my foot for twelve years," answered the tiger,"and it hurts me so. that is why I roar.""Well," said the Raja's son, "I will take it out for you. Butperhaps, as you are a tiger, when I have made you well, you will eatme?""Oh, no," said the tiger, "I won't eat you. Do make me well."Then the prince took a little knife from his pocket, and cut the thornout of the tiger's foot. but when he cut, the tiger roared louder thanever so loud that his wife heard him in the next jungle, and camebounding along to see what was the matter. The tiger saw her coming,and hid the prince in the jungle, so that she should not see him."What man hurt you that you roared so loud?" said the wife."No one hurt me," answered the husband. "but a Raja's son came andtook the thorn out of my foot.""Where is he? Show him to me," said his wife."If you promise not to kill him, I will call him," said the tiger."I won't kill him. only let me see him," answered his wife.Then the tiger called the Raja's son, and when he came the tiger andhis wife made him a great many salaams. Then they gave him a gooddinner, and he stayed with them for three days. Every day he looked atthe tiger's foot, and the third day it was quite healed. Then he saidgood bye to the tigers, and the tiger said to him, "If ever you are introuble, think of me, and we will come to you."The Raja's son rode on and on till he came to a third jungle. Here hefound four fakirs whose teacher and master had died, and had left fourthings, a bed, which carried whoever sat on it whithersoever hewished to go. a bag, that gave its owner whatever he wanted, jewels,food, or clothes. a stone bowl that gave its owner as much water as hewanted, no matter how far he might be from a tank. and a stick andrope, to which its owner had only to say, if any one came to make waron him, "Stick, beat as many men and soldiers as are here," and thestick would beat them and the rope would tie them up.The four fakirs were quarrelling over these four things. One said, "Iwant this." another said, "You cannot have it, for I want it." and soon.The Raja's son said to them, "Do not quarrel for these things. I willshoot four arrows in four different directions. Whichever of you getsto my first arrow, shall have the first thing the bed. Whosoever getsto the second arrow, shall have the second thing the bag. He who getsto the third arrow, shall have the third thing the bowl. And he whogets to the fourth arrow, shall have the last things the stick andrope." To this they agreed, and the prince shot off his first arrow.Away raced the fakirs to get it. When they brought it back to him heshot off the second, and when they had found and brought it to him heshot off his third, and when they had brought him the third he shotoff the fourth.While they were away looking for the fourth arrow the Raja's son lethis horse loose in the jungle, and sat on the bed, taking the bowl,the stick and rope, and the bag with him. Then he said, "Bed, I wishto go to the Princess Labam's country." The little bed instantly roseup into the air and began to fly, and it flew and flew till it came tothe Princess Labam's country, where it settled on the ground. TheRaja's son asked some men he saw, "Whose country is this?""The Princess Labam's country," they answered. Then the prince went ontill he came to a house where he saw an old woman."Who are you?" she said. "Where do you come from?""I come from a far country," he said. "do let me stay with youto night.""No," she answered, "I cannot let you stay with me. for our king hasordered that men from other countries may not stay in his country. Youcannot stay in my house.""You are my aunty," said the prince. "let me remain with you for thisone night. You see it is evening, and if I go into the jungle, thenthe wild beasts will eat me.""Well," said the old woman, "you may stay here to night. but to morrowmorning you must go away, for if the king hears you have passed thenight in my house, he will have me seized and put into prison."Then she took him into her house, and the Raja's son was very glad.The old woman began preparing dinner, but he stopped her, "Aunty," hesaid, "I will give you food." He put his hand into his bag, saying,"Bag, I want some dinner," and the bag gave him instantly a deliciousdinner, served up on two gold plates. The old woman and the Raja's sonthen dined together.When they had finished eating, the old woman said, "Now I will fetchsome water.""Don't go," said the prince. "You shall have plenty of waterdirectly." So he took his bowl and said to it, "Bowl, I want somewater," and then it filled with water. When it was full, the princecried out, "Stop, bowl," and the bowl stopped filling. "See, aunty,"he said, "with this bowl I can always get as much water as I want."By this time night had come. "Aunty," said the Raja's son, "why don'tyou light a lamp?""There is no need," she said. "Our king has forbidden the people inhis country to light any lamps. for, as soon as it is dark, hisdaughter, the Princess Labam, comes and sits on her roof, and sheshines so that she lights up all the country and our houses, and wecan see to do our work as if it were day."When it was quite black night the princess got up. She dressed herselfin her rich clothes and jewels, and rolled up her hair, and across herhead she put a band of diamonds and pearls. Then she shone like themoon, and her beauty made night day. She came out of her room, and saton the roof of her palace. In the daytime she never came out of herhouse. she only came out at night. All the people in her father'scountry then went about their work and finished it.The Raja's son watched the princess quietly, and was very happy. Hesaid to himself, "How lovely she is!"At midnight, when everybody had gone to bed, the princess came downfrom her roof, and went to her room. and when she was in bed andasleep, the Raja's son got up softly, and sat on his bed. "Bed," hesaid to it, "I want to go to the Princess Labam's bed room." So thelittle bed carried him to the room where she lay fast asleep.The young Raja took his bag and said, "I want a great deal ofbetel leaf," and it at once gave him quantities of betel leaf. This helaid near the princess's bed, and then his little bed carried him backto the old woman's house.Next morning all the princess's servants found the betel leaf, andbegan to eat it. "Where did you get all that betel leaf?" asked theprincess."We found it near your bed," answered the servants. Nobody knew theprince had come in the night and put it all there.In the morning the old woman came to the Raja's son. "Now it ismorning," she said, "and you must go. for if the king finds out all Ihave done for you, he will seize me.""I am ill to day, dear aunty," said the prince. "do let me stay tillto morrow morning.""Good," said the old woman. So he stayed, and they took their dinnerout of the bag, and the bowl gave them water.When night came the princess got up and sat on her roof, and at twelveo'clock, when every one was in bed, she went to her bed room, and wassoon fast asleep. Then the Raja's son sat on his bed, and it carriedhim to the princess. He took his bag and said, "Bag, I want a mostlovely shawl." It gave him a splendid shawl, and he spread it over theprincess as she lay asleep. Then he went back to the old woman's houseand slept till morning.In the morning, when the princess saw the shawl she was delighted."See, mother," she said. "Khuda must have given me this shawl, it isso beautiful." Her mother was very glad too."Yes, my child," she said. "Khuda must have given you this splendidshawl."When it was morning the old woman said to the Raja's son, "Now youmust really go.""Aunty," he answered, "I am not well enough yet. Let me stay a fewdays longer. I will remain hidden in your house, so that no one maysee me." So the old woman let him stay.When it was black night, the princess put on her lovely clothes andjewels, and sat on her roof. At midnight she went to her room and wentto sleep. Then the Raja's son sat on his bed and flew to her bed room.There he said to his bag, "Bag, I want a very, very beautiful ring."The bag gave him a glorious ring. Then he took the Princess Labam'shand gently to put on the ring, and she started up very muchfrightened."Who are you?" she said to the prince. "Where do you come from? Why doyou come to my room?""Do not be afraid, princess," he said. "I am no thief. I am a greatRaja's son. Hiraman parrot, who lives in the jungle where I went tohunt, told me your name, and then I left my father and mother, andcame to see you.""Well," said the princess, "as you are the son of such a great Raja,I will not have you killed, and I will tell my father and mother thatI wish to marry you."The prince then returned to the old woman's house. and when morningcame the princess said to her mother, "The son of a great Raja hascome to this country, and I wish to marry him." Her mother told thisto the king."Good," said the king. "but if this Raja's son wishes to marry mydaughter, he must first do whatever I bid him. If he fails I will killhim. I will give him eighty pounds weight of mustard seed, and out ofthis he must crush the oil in one day. If he cannot do this he shalldie."In the morning the Raja's son told the old woman that he intended tomarry the princess. "Oh," said the old woman, "go away from thiscountry, and do not think of marrying her. A great many Rajas andRajas' sons have come here to marry her, and her father has had themall killed. He says whoever wishes to marry his daughter must first dowhatever he bids him. If he can, then he shall marry the princess. ifhe cannot, the king will have him killed. But no one can do the thingsthe king tells him to do. so all the Rajas and Rajas' sons who havetried have been put to death. You will be killed too, if you try. Dogo away." But the prince would not listen to anything she said.The king sent for the prince to the old woman's house, and hisservants brought the Raja's son to the king's court house to the king.There the king gave him eighty pounds of mustard seed, and told him tocrush all the oil out of it that day, and bring it next morning to himto the court house. "Whoever wishes to marry my daughter," he said tothe prince, "must first do all I tell him. If he cannot, then I havehim killed. So if you cannot crush all the oil out of this mustardseed, you will die."The prince was very sorry when he heard this. "How can I crush the oilout of all this mustard seed in one day?" he said to himself. "and ifI do not, the king will kill me." He took the mustard seed to the oldwoman's house, and did not know what to do. At last he remembered theAnt Raja, and the moment he did so, the Ant Raja and his ants came tohim. "Why do you look so sad?" said the Ant Raja.The prince showed him the mustard seed, and said to him, "How can Icrush the oil out of all this mustard seed in one day? And if I do nottake the oil to the king to morrow morning, he will kill me.""Be happy," said the Ant Raja. "lie down and sleep. we will crush allthe oil out for you during the day, and to morrow morning you shalltake it to the king." The Raja's son lay down and slept, and the antscrushed out the oil for him. The prince was very glad when he saw theoil.The next morning he took it to the court house to the king. But theking said, "You cannot yet marry my daughter. If you wish to do so,you must first fight with my two demons and kill them." The king along time ago had caught two demons, and then, as he did not know whatto do with them, he had shut them up in a cage. He was afraid to letthem loose for fear they would eat up all the people in his country.and he did not know how to kill them. So all the kings and kings' sonswho wanted to marry the Princess Labam had to fight with thesedemons. "for," said the king to himself, "perhaps the demons may bekilled, and then I shall be rid of them."When he heard of the demons the Raja's son was very sad. "What can Ido?" he said to himself. "How can I fight with these two demons?" Thenhe thought of his tiger: and the tiger and his wife came to him andsaid, "Why are you so sad?" The Raja's son answered, "The king hasordered me to fight with his two demons and kill them. How can I dothis?" "Do not be frightened," said the tiger. "Be happy. I and mywife will fight with them for you."Then the Raja's son took out of his bag two splendid coats. They wereall gold and silver, and covered with pearls and diamonds. These heput on the tigers to make them beautiful, and he took them to theking, and said to him, "May these tigers fight your demons for me?""Yes," said the king, who did not care in the least who killed hisdemons, provided they were killed. "Then call your demons," said theRaja's son, "and these tigers will fight them." The king did so, andthe tigers and the demons fought and fought until the tigers hadkilled the demons."That is good," said the king. "But you must do something else beforeI give you my daughter. Up in the sky I have a kettle drum. You mustgo and beat it. If you cannot do this, I will kill you."The Raja's son thought of his little bed. so he went to the oldwoman's house and sat on his bed. "Little bed," he said, "up in thesky is the king's kettle drum. I want to go to it." The bed flew upwith him, and the Raja's son beat the drum, and the king heard him.Still, when he came down, the king would not give him his daughter."You have," he said to the prince, "done the three things I told youto do. but you must do one thing more." "If I can, I will," said theRaja's son.Then the king showed him the trunk of a tree that was lying near hiscourt house. It was a very, very thick trunk. He gave the prince a waxhatchet, and said, "To morrow morning you must cut this trunk in twowith this wax hatchet."The Raja's son went back to the old woman's house. He was very sad,and thought that now the Raja would certainly kill him. "I had his oilcrushed out by the ants," he said to himself. "I had his demons killedby the tigers. My bed helped me to beat his kettle drum. But now whatcan I do? How can I cut that thick tree trunk in two with a waxhatchet?"At night he went on his bed to see the princess. "To morrow," he saidto her, "your father will kill me." "Why?" asked the princess."He has told me to cut a thick tree trunk in two with a wax hatchet.How can I ever do that?" said the Raja's son. "Do not be afraid," saidthe princess. "do as I bid you, and you will cut it in two quiteeasily."Then she pulled out a hair from her head, and gave it to the prince."To morrow," she said, "when no one is near you, you must say to thetree trunk, 'The Princess Labam commands you to let yourself be cut intwo by this hair.' Then stretch the hair down the edge of the waxhatchet's blade."The prince next day did exactly as the princess had told him. and theminute the hair that was stretched down the edge of the hatchet bladetouched the tree trunk it split into two pieces.The king said, "Now you can marry my daughter." Then the wedding tookplace. All the Rajas and kings of the countries round were asked tocome to it, and there were great rejoicings. After a few days theprince's son said to his wife, "Let us go to my father's country." ThePrincess Labam's father gave them a quantity of camels and horses andrupees and servants. and they travelled in great state to the prince'scountry, where they lived happily.The prince always kept his bag, bowl, bed, and stick. only, as no oneever came to make war on him, he never needed to use the stick.