Once upon a time there lived a man who had only one son, a lazy, stupidboy, who would never do anything he was told. When the father was dying,he sent for his son and told him that he would soon be left alone inthe world, with no possessions but the small cottage they lived in and apear tree which grew behind it, and that, whether he liked it or not, hewould have to work, or else he would starve. Then the old man died.But the boy did not work. instead, he idled about as before, contentinghimself with eating the pears off his tree, which, unlike other peartrees before or since, bore fruit the whole year round. Indeed, thepears were so much finer than any you could get even in the autumn, thatone day, in the middle of the winter, they attracted the notice of a foxwho was creeping by.'Dear me. what lovely pears!' he said to the youth. 'Do give me a basketof them. It will bring you luck!''Ah, little fox, but if I give you a basketful, what am I to eat?' askedthe boy.'Oh, trust me, and do what I tell you,' said the fox. 'I know it willbring you luck.' So the boy got up and picked some of the ripest pearsand put them into a rush basket. The fox thanked him, and, taking thebasket in his mouth, trotted off to the king's palace and made his waystraight to the king.'Your Majesty, my master sends you a few of his best pears, and begs youwill graciously accept them,' he said, laying the basket at the feet ofthe king.'Pears! at this season?' cried the king, peering down to look at them.'and, pray, who is your master?''The Count Piro,' answered the fox.'But how does he manage to get pears in midwinter?' asked the king.'Oh, he has everything he wants,' replied the fox. 'he is richer eventhan you are, your Majesty.''Then what can I send him in return for his pears?' said the king.'Nothing, your Majesty, or you would hurt his feelings,' answered thefox.'Well, tell him how heartily I thank him, and how much I shall enjoythem.' And the fox went away.He trotted back to the cottage with his empty basket and told his tale,but the youth did not seem as pleased to hear as the fox was to tell.'But, my dear little fox,' said he, 'you have brought me nothing inreturn, and I am so hungry!''Let me alone,' replied the fox. 'I know what I am doing. You will see,it will bring you luck.'A few days after this the fox came back again.'I must have another basket of pears,' said he.'Ah, little fox, what shall I eat if you take away all my pears?'answered the youth.'Be quiet, it will be all right,' said the fox. and taking a biggerbasket than before, he filled it quite full of pears. Then he picked itup in his mouth, and trotted off to the palace.'Your Majesty, as you seemed to like the first basket of pears, I havebrought you some more,' said he, 'with my master, the Count Piro'shumble respects.''Now, surely it is not possible to grow such pears with deep snow on theground?' cried the king.'Oh, that never affects them,' answered the fox lightly. 'he is richenough to do anything. But to day he sends me to ask if you will givehim your daughter in marriage?''If he is so much richer than I am,' said the king, 'I shall be obligedto refuse. My honour would not permit me to accept his offer.''Oh, your Majesty, you must not think that,' replied the fox. 'and donot let the question of a dowry trouble you. The Count Piro would notdream of asking anything but the hand of the princess.''Is he really so rich that he can do without a dowry?' asked the king.'Did I not tell your Majesty that he was richer than you?' answered thefox reproachfully.'Well, beg him to come here, that we may talk together,' said the king.So the fox went back to the young man and said: 'I have told the kingthat you are Count Piro, and have asked his daughter in marriage.''Oh, little fox, what have you done?' cried the youth in dismay. 'whenthe king sees me he will order my head to be cut off.''Oh, no, he won't!' replied the fox. 'just do as I tell you.' And hewent off to the town, and stopped at the house of the best tailor.'My master, the Count Piro, begs that you will send him at once thefinest coat that you have in your shop,' said the fox, putting on hisgrandest air, 'and if it fits him I will call and pay for it to morrow!Indeed, as he is in a great hurry, perhaps it might be as well if I tookit round myself.' The tailor was not accustomed to serve counts, andhe at once got out all the coats he had ready. The fox chose out abeautiful one of white and silver, bade the tailor tie it up in aparcel, and carrying the string in his teeth, he left the shop, and wentto a horse dealer's, whom he persuaded to send his finest horse round tothe cottage, saying that the king had bidden his master to the palace.Very unwillingly the young man put on the coat and mounted the horse,and rode up to meet the king, with the fox running before him.'What am I to say to his Majesty, little fox?' he asked anxiously. 'youknow that I have never spoken to a king before.''Say nothing,' answered the fox, 'but leave the talking to me. "Goodmorning, your Majesty," will be all that is necessary for you.'By this time they had reached the palace, and the king came to the doorto receive Count Piro, and led him to the great hall, where a feast wasspread. The princess was already seated at the table, but was as dumb asCount Piro himself.'The Count speaks very little,' the king said at last to the fox, andthe fox answered: 'He has so much to think about in the management ofhis property that he cannot afford to talk like ordinary people.' Theking was quite satisfied, and they finished dinner, after which CountPiro and the fox took leave.The next morning the fox came round again.'Give me another basket of pears,' he said.'Very well, little fox. but remember it may cost me my life,' answeredthe youth.'Oh, leave it to me, and do as I tell you, and you will see that in theend it will bring you luck,' answered the fox. and plucking the pears hetook them up to the king.'My master, Count Piro, sends you these pears,' he said, 'and asks foran answer to his proposal.''Tell the count that the wedding can take place whenever he pleases,'answered the king, and, filled with pride, the fox trotted back todeliver his message.'But I can't bring the princess here, little fox?' cried the young manin dismay.'You leave everything to me,' answered the fox. 'have I not managedwell so far?'And up at the palace preparations were made for a grand wedding, and theyouth was married to the princess.After a week of feasting, the fox said to the king: 'My master wishes totake his young bride home to his own castle.''Very well, I will accompany them,' replied the king. and he ordered hiscourtiers and attendants to get ready, and the best horses in his stableto be brought out for himself, Count Piro and the princess. So they allset out, and rode across the plain, the little fox running before them.He stopped at the sight of a great flock of sheep, which was feedingpeacefully on the rich grass. 'To whom do these sheep belong?' asked heof the shepherd. 'To an ogre,' replied the shepherd.'Hush,' said the fox in a mysterious manner. 'Do you see that crowdof armed men riding along? If you were to tell them that those sheepbelonged to an ogre, they would kill them, and then the ogre would killyou! If they ask, just say the sheep belong to Count Piro. it will bebetter for everybody.' And the fox ran hastily on, as he did not wish tobe seen talking to the shepherd.Very soon the king came up.'What beautiful sheep!' he said, drawing up his horse. 'I have none sofine in my pastures. Whose are they?''Count Piro's,' answered the shepherd, who did not know the king.'Well, he must be a very rich man,' thought the king to himself, andrejoiced that he had such a wealthy son in law.Meanwhile the fox had met with a huge herd of pigs, snuffling about theroots of some trees.'To whom do these pigs belong?' he asked of the swineherd.'To an ogre,' replied he.'Hush!' whispered the fox, though nobody could hear him. 'do you seethat troop of armed men riding towards us? If you tell them that thepigs belong to the ogre they will kill them, and then the ogre will killyou! If they ask, just say that the pigs belong to Count Piro. it willbe better for everybody.' And he ran hastily on.Soon after the king rode up.'What fine pigs!' he said, reining in his horse. 'They are fatter thanany I have got on my farms. Whose are they?''Count Piro's,' answered the swineherd, who did not know the king. andagain the king felt he was lucky to have such a rich son in law.This time the fox ran faster than before, and in a flowery meadow hefound a troop of horses feeding. 'Whose horses are these?' he asked ofthe man who was watching them.'An ogre's,' replied he.'Hush!' whispered the fox, 'do you see that crowd of armed men comingtowards us? If you tell them the horses belong to an ogre they willdrive them off, and then the ogre will kill you! If they ask, just saythey are Count Piro's. it will be better for everybody.' And he ran onagain.In a few minutes the king rode up.'Oh, what lovely creatures! how I wish they were mine!' he exclaimed.'Whose are they?'Count Piro's,' answered the man, who did not know the king. and theking's heart leapt as he thought that if they belonged to his richson in law they were as good as his.At last the fox came to the castle of the ogre himself. He ran up thesteps, with tears falling from his eyes, and crying:'Oh, you poor, poor people, what a sad fate is yours!''What has happened?' asked the ogre, trembling with fright.'Do you see that troop of horsemen who are riding along the road? Theyare sent by the king to kill you!''Oh, dear little fox, help us, we implore you!' cried the ogre and hiswife.'Well, I will do what I can,' answered the fox. 'The best place is foryou both to hide in the big oven, and when the soldiers have gone by Iwill let you out.'The ogre and ogress scrambled into the oven as quick as thought, and thefox banged the door on them. just as he did so the king came up.'Do us the honour to dismount, your Majesty,' said the fox, bowing low.'This is the palace of Count Piro!''Why it is more splendid than my own!' exclaimed the king, looking roundon all the beautiful things that filled the hall. But why are there noservants?''His Excellency the Count Piro wished the princess to choose them forherself,' answered the fox, and the king nodded his approval. He thenrode on, leaving the bridal pair in the castle. But when it was dark andall was still, the fox crept downstairs and lit the kitchen fire, andthe ogre and his wife were burned to death. The next morning the foxsaid to Count Piro:'Now that you are rich and happy, you have no more need of me. but,before I go, there is one thing I must ask of you in return: when I die,promise me that you will give me a magnificent coffin, and bury me withdue honours.''Oh, little, little fox, don't talk of dying,' cried the princess,nearly weeping, for she had taken a great liking to the fox.After some time the fox thought he would see if the Count Piro wasreally grateful to him for all he had done, and went back to the castle,where he lay down on the door step, and pretended to be dead. Theprincess was just going out for a walk, and directly she saw him lyingthere, she burst into tears and fell on her knees beside him.'My dear little fox, you are not dead,' she wailed. 'you poor, poorlittle creature, you shall have the finest coffin in the world!''A coffin for an animal?' said Count Piro. 'What nonsense! just take himby the leg and throw him into the ditch.'Then the fox sprang up and cried: 'You wretched, thankless beggar. haveyou forgotten that you owe all your riches to me?'Count Piro was frightened when he heard these words, as he thought thatperhaps the fox might have power to take away the castle, and leave himas poor as when he had nothing to eat but the pears off his tree. So hetried to soften the fox's anger, saying that he had only spoken in joke,as he had known quite well that he was not really dead. For the sakeof the princess, the fox let himself be softened, and he lived in thecastle for many years, and played with Count Piro's children. And whenhe actually did die, his coffin was made of silver, and Count Piro andhis wife followed him to the grave.