From Griechtsche und Albanesische Marchen, von J. G. von Hahn. (Leipzig:Engelmann. 1864.)Once upon a time there lived a man who had two sons but they did notget on at all well together, for the younger was much handsomer than hiselder brother who was very jealous of him. When they grew older, thingsbecame worse and worse, and at last one day as they were walking througha wood the elder youth seized hold of the other, tied him to a tree, andwent on his way hoping that the boy might starve to death.However, it happened that an old and humpbacked shepherd passed the treewith his flock, and seeing the prisoner, he stopped and said to him,'Tell me, my son why are you tied to that tree?''Because I was so crooked,' answered the young man. 'but it has quitecured me, and now my back is as straight as can be.''I wish you would bind me to a tree,' exclaimed the shepherd, 'so thatmy back would get straight.''With all the pleasure in life,' replied the youth. 'If you will loosenthese cords I will tie you up with them as firmly as I can.'This was soon done, and then the young man drove off the sheep, leavingtheir real shepherd to repent of his folly. and before he had gone veryfar he met with a horse boy and a driver of oxen, and he persuaded themto turn with him and to seek for adventures.By these and many other tricks he soon became so celebrated that hisfame reached the king's ears, and his majesty was filled with curiosityto see the man who had managed to outwit everybody. So he commanded hisguards to capture the young man and bring him before him.And when the young man stood before the king, the king spoke to himand said, 'By your tricks and the pranks that you have played on otherpeople, you have, in the eye of the law, forfeited your life. But on onecondition I will spare you, and that is, if you will bring me the flyinghorse that belongs to the great dragon. Fail in this, and you shall behewn in a thousand pieces.''If that is all,' said the youth, 'you shall soon have it.'So he went out and made his way straight to the stable where the flyinghorse was tethered. He stretched his hand cautiously out to seize thebridle, when the horse suddenly began to neigh as loud as he could. Nowthe room in which the dragon slept was just above the stable, and atthe sound of the neighing he woke and cried to the horse, 'What is thematter, my treasure? is anything hurting you?' After waiting a littlewhile the young man tried again to loose the horse, but a second time itneighed so loudly that the dragon woke up in a hurry and called outto know why the horse was making such a noise. But when the same thinghappened the third time, the dragon lost his temper, and went downinto the stable and took a whip and gave the horse a good beating. Thisoffended the horse and made him angry, and when the young man stretchedout his hand to untie his head, he made no further fuss, but sufferedhimself to be led quietly away. Once clear of the stable the young mansprang on his back and galloped off, calling over his shoulder, 'Hi!dragon! dragon! if anyone asks you what has become of your horse, youcan say that I have got him!'But the king said, 'The flying horse is all very well, but I wantsomething more. You must bring me the covering with the little bellsthat lies on the bed of the dragon, or I will have you hewn into athousand pieces.''Is that all?' answered the youth. 'That is easily done.'And when night came he went away to the dragon's house and climbed up onto the roof. Then he opened a little window in the roof and let downthe chain from which the kettle usually hung, and tried to hook the bedcovering and to draw it up. But the little bells all began to ring, andthe dragon woke and said to his wife, 'Wife, you have pulled off all thebed clothes!' and drew the covering towards him, pulling, as he did so,the young man into the room. Then the dragon flung himself on theyouth and bound him fast with cords saying as he tied the last knot,'To morrow when I go to church you must stay at home and kill him andcook him, and when I get back we will eat him together.'So the following morning the dragoness took hold of the young man andreached down from the shelf a sharp knife with which to kill him. But asshe untied the cords the better to get hold of him, the prisoner caughther by the legs, threw her to the ground, seized her and speedily cuther throat, just as she had been about to do for him, and put her bodyin the oven. Then he snatched up the covering and carried it to theking.The king was seated on his throne when the youth appeared before him andspread out the covering with a deep bow. 'That is not enough,' said hismajesty. 'you must bring me the dragon himself, or I will have you hewninto a thousand pieces.''It shall be done,' answered the youth. 'but you must give me two yearsto manage it, for my beard must grow so that he may not know me.''So be it,' said the king.And the first thing the young man did when his beard was grown was totake the road to the dragon's house and on the way he met a beggar, whomhe persuaded to change clothes with him, and in the beggar's garments hewent fearlessly forth to the dragon.He found his enemy before his house, very busy making a box, andaddressed him politely, 'Good morning, your worship. Have you a morselof bread?''You must wait,' replied the dragon, 'till I have finished my box, andthen I will see if I can find one.''What will you do with the box when it is made?' inquired the beggar.'It is for the young man who killed my wife, and stole my flying horseand my bed covering,' said the dragon.'He deserves nothing better,' answered the beggar, 'for it was an illdeed. Still that box is too small for him, for he is a big man.''You are wrong,' said the dragon. 'The box is large enough even for me.''Well, the rogue is nearly as tall as you,' replied the beggar, 'and,of course, if you can get in, he can. But I am sure you would find it atight fit.''No, there is plenty of room,' said the dragon, tucking himselfcarefully inside.But no sooner was he well in, than the young man clapped on the lid andcalled out, 'Now press hard, just to see if he will be able to get out.'The dragon pressed as hard as he could, but the lid never moved.'It is all right,' he cried. 'now you can open it.'But instead of opening it, the young man drove in long nails to make ittighter still. then he took the box on his back and brought it to theking. And when the king heard that the dragon was inside, he was soexcited that he would not wait one moment, but broke the lock and liftedthe lid just a little way to make sure he was really there. He wasvery careful not to leave enough space for the dragon to jump out, butunluckily there was just room for his great mouth, and with one snapthe king vanished down his wide red jaws. Then the young man married theking's daughter and ruled over the land, but what he did with the dragonnobody knows.