It happened that one beautiful day our Lord God wanted to take a walk, and he took all of his apostles and saints with him, leaving only Saint Peter at home in heaven. Warning Saint Peter not to allow anyone into heaven while he was away, the Lord God left.A tailor approached heaven and knocked at the gate. Saint Peter asked who was there and what he wanted.The tailor said, "I am a tailor, and I very much wanted to get into heaven."Saint Peter said, "I am not allowed to let anyone enter, for our Lord God is not at home, and he told me to be careful to not permit anyone inside while he is away.But the tailor did not cease begging for admission, until finally Saint Peter gave in and allowed him to come in, but with the condition that he was to sit quietly and politely in a corner until our Lord God returned, so that no one would notice him and get angry.The tailor promised to do this. He sat down in a corner behind the door, but as soon as Saint Peter left, he got up and began walking from one corner of heaven to another, looking at everything. Finally he came to some beautiful, expensive chairs surrounding a special chair set with many precious jewels. It stood much higher than the others. In front of it was a golden footstool. This was the chair where our Lord God sits when he is at home.For a good while the tailor stood quietly before the chair, constantly looking at it, for he liked it better than any of the others. Finally he sat down on the chair. Seated there he could look down on the earth and see everything that was happening there.Among other things he saw an old woman who was stealing a hank of yarn from her neighbor. This so angered the tailor that he picked up the golden footstool and threw it at the old woman down on earth.No longer able to reach the footstool, the tailor crept down from the chair and returned to his old corner, remaining there as if he had gone nowhere else.When our Lord God returned home he did not notice the tailor, but when he sat down in his chair he saw that the footstool was missing. He asked Saint Peter where his footstool was, and Saint Peter replied that he did not know."Who has been here? Did you allow anyone inside?" he asked further."I do not know of anyone who has been here, except for a tailor who is sitting over there behind the door."Then our Lord God asked the tailor, "What did you do with my footstool? Have you seen it?"The frightened tailor answered with fear and trembling, "I was sitting in your chair when I saw an old woman down on earth stealing a hank of yarn from her neighbor. This made me so angry that I threw the footstool at her."Our Lord God became angry at the tailor, and he said, "Hey, you rogue, if I had thrown a footstool at you every time that you cut off too much cloth and kept it for yourself, there would not be any chairs or benches left in heaven."Thus the tailor, his own shortcomings and misdeeds having been revealed, was forced to leave heaven.We should learn from this not to prosecute and punish the small sins of others, while we ourselves are guilty of much larger ones.