Old FatherOnce upon a time, when Brahmadatta was King of Benares, there was in afamily of a certain village of Kasi an only son named Vasitthaka. This mansupported his parents, and after his mother's death, he supported hisfather as has been described in the introduction. But there is thisdifference. When the woman (Vasitthaka's wife) said, "Look there! That isyour father's doing! I am constantly begging him not to do this and that,and he only gets angry!" she went on, "My lord, your father is fierce andviolent, forever picking quarrels. A decrepit old man like that, tormentedwith disease, is bound to die soon. and I can't live in the same housewith him. He will die of himself before many days are out. Well, take himto a cemetery, and dig a pit, throw him in, and break his head with thespade. and when he is dead, shovel the earth upon him, and leave himthere."At last, by dint of this dinning in his ears, said he, "Wife, to kill aman is a serious matter. How can I do it?""I will tell you of a way," quoth she."Say on, then.""Well, my lord, at break of day, go to the place where your fathersleeps. Tell him very loud, that all may hear, that a debtor of his is ina certain village, that you went and he would not pay you, and that if hedies the man will never pay at all. And say that you will both drive theretogether in the morning. Then at the appointed time get up, and put theanimals to the cart, and take him in it to the cemetery. When you getthere, bury him in a pit, make a noise as if you had been robbed, woundand wash your head, and return.""Yes, that plan will do," said Vasitthaka. He agreed to her proposal,and got the cart ready for the journey.Now the man had a son, a lad of seven years, but wise and clever. Thelad overheard what his mother said. "My mother," thought he, "is a wickedwoman, and is trying to persuade father to murder his father. I willprevent my father from doing this murder." He ran quickly, and lay downbeside his grandsire.Vasitthaka, at the time suggested by the wife, prepared the cart."Come, father, let us get that debt!" said he, and placed his father inthe cart.But the boy got in first of all. Vasitthaka could not prevent him, sohe took him to the cemetery with them. Then, placing his father and hisson together in a place apart, with the cart, he got down, took spade andbasket, and in a spot where he was hidden from them began to dig a squarehole. The boy got down and followed him, and as though ignorant what wasafoot, opened a conversation by repeating the first stanza:No bulbs are here, no herbs for cooking meat,No cat mint, nor no other plant to eat.Than father, why this pit, if need be none,Delve in Death's acre mid the woods alone?This his father answered by repeating the second stanza:Thy grandsire, son, is very weak and old,Oppressed by pain from ailments manifold.Him will I bury in a pit today.In such a life I could not wish him stay.Hearing this, the boy answered by repeating a half stanza:Thou has done sinfully in wishing this,And for the deed, a cruel deed it is.With these words, he caught the spade from his father's hands, and atno great distance began to dig another pit. His father approaching askedwhy he dug that pit, to whom he made reply by finishing the thirdstanza:I too, when thou art aged, father mine,Will treat my father as thou treatest thine.Following the custom of the familyDeep in a pit I too will bury thee.To this the father replied by repeating the fourth stanza:What a harsh saying for a boy to say,And to upbraid a father in this way!To think that my own son would rail at me,And to his truest friend unkind should be!When the father had thus spoken, the wise lad recited three stanzas,one by way of answer, and two as an holy hymn:I am not harsh, my father, nor unkind,Nay, I regard thee with a friendly mind.But this thou dost, this act of sin, thy sonWill have no strength to undo again, once done.Whoso, Vasittha, hurts with ill intentHis mother or his father, innocent,He, when the body is dissolved, shall beIn hell for his next life undoubtedly.Whoso with meat and drink, Vasittha, shallHis mother or his father feed withal,He, when the body is dissolved, shall beIn heaven for his next life undoubtedly.The father, after hearing his son thus discourse, repeated the eighthstanza:Thou art no heartless ingrate, son, I see,But kindly hearted, O my son to me.'Twas in obedience to thy mother's wordI thought to do this horrid deed abhorred.Said the lad, when he heard this, "Father, women, when a wrongis done and they are not rebuked, again and again commit sin. You mustbend my mother, that she may never again do such a deed as this." And herepeated the ninth stanza:That wife of yours, that ill conditioned dame,My mother, she that brought me forth, that same,Let us from out our dwelling far expel,Lest she work other woe on thee as well.Hearing the words of his wise son, well pleased was Vasitthaka, andsaying, "Let us go, my son!" he seated himself in the cart with son andfather.Now the woman too, this sinner, was happy at heart. for, thought she,this ill luck is out of the house now. She plastered the place with wetcow dung, and cooked a mess of rice porridge. But as she sat watching theroad by which they would return, she espied them coming, "There he is,back with old ill luck again!" thought she, much in anger. "Fie,good for nothing! cried she. "What, bring back the ill luck you took awaywith you!"Vasitthaka said not a word, but unyoked the cart. Then said he,"Wretch, what is that you say?" He gave her a sound drubbing, and bundledher head over heels out of doors, bidding her never darken his door again.Then he bathed his father and his son, and took a bath himself, and thethree of them ate the rice porridge. The sinful woman dwelt for a few daysin another house.Then the son said to his father, "Father, for all this, my mother doesnot understand. Now let us try to vex her. You give out that in such andsuch a village lives a niece of yours, who will attend upon your fatherand your son and you. So you will go and fetch her. Then take flowers andperfumes, and get into your cart, and ride about the country all day,returning in the evening."And so he did. The women in the neighbor's family told his wife this."Have you heard," said they, "that your husband has gone to get anotherwife in such a place?""Ah, then I am undone!" quoth she, "and there is no place for meleft."But she would inquire of her son. So quickly she came to him, and fellat his feet, crying, "Save thee, I have no other refuge! Henceforward Iwill tend your father and grandsire as I would tend a beauteous shrine!Give me entrance into this house once more!""Yes, mother," replied the lad, "if you do no more as you did, I will.Be of good cheer!" And at his father's coming he repeated the tenthstanza:That wife of yours, that ill conditioned dame,My mother, she that brought me forth, that same,Like a tamed elephant, in full control,Let her return again, that sinful soul.So said he to his father, and then went and summoned his mother. She,being reconciled to her husband and her husband's father, wasthenceforward tamed, and endued with righteousness, and watched over herhusband and his father and her son. And these two, steadfastly followingtheir son's advice, gave alms and did good deeds, and became destined tojoin the hosts of heaven.