This is the ancient Filipino account of the creation.Thousands of years ago there was no land nor sun nor moon nor stars, andthe world was only a great sea of water, above which stretched the sky.The water was the kingdom of the god Maguayan, and the sky was ruled bythe great god Captan.Maguayan had a daughter called Lidagat, the sea, and Captan had a sonknown as Lihangin, the wind. The gods agreed to the marriage of theirchildren, so the sea became the bride of the wind.Three sons and a daughter were born to them. The sons were calledLicalibutan, Liadlao, and Libulan. and the daughter received the name ofLisuga.Licalibutan had a body of rock and was strong and brave. Liadlao wasformed of gold and was always happy. Libulan was made of copper and wasweak and timid. and the beautiful Lisuga had a body of pure silver and wassweet and gentle. Their parents were very fond of them, and nothing waswanting to make them happy.After a time Lihangin died and left the control of the winds to his eldestson Licalibutan. The faithful wife Lidagat soon followed her husband, andthe children, now grown up, were left without father or mother. However,their grandfathers, Captan and Maguayan, took care of them and guardedthem from all evil.After a time, Licalibutan, proud of his power over the winds, resolved togain more power, and asked his brothers to join him in an attack on Captanin the sky above. At first they refused. but when Licalibutan became angrywith them, the amiable Liadlao, not wishing to offend his brother, agreedto help. Then together they induced the timid Libulan to join in the plan.When all was ready the three brothers rushed at the sky, but they couldnot beat down the gates of steel that guarded the entrance. ThenLicalibutan let loose the strongest winds and blew the bars in everydirection. The brothers rushed into the opening, but were met by the angrygod Captan. So terrible did he look that they turned and ran in terror.but Captan, furious at the destruction of his gates, sent three bolts oflightning after them.The first struck the copper Libulan and melted him into a ball. The secondstruck the golden Liadlao, and he too was melted. The third bolt struckLicalibutan, and his rocky body broke into many pieces and fell into thesea. So huge was he that parts of his body stuck out above the water andbecame what is known as land.In the meantime the gentle Lisuga had missed her brothers and started tolook for them. She went toward the sky, but as she approached the brokengates, Captan, blind with anger, struck her too with lightning, and hersilver body broke into thousands of pieces.Captan then came down from the sky and tore the sea apart, calling onMaguayan to come to him and accusing him of ordering the attack on thesky. Soon Maguayan appeared and answered that he knew nothing of the plotas he had been asleep far down in the sea.After a time he succeeded in calming the angry Captan. Together they weptat the loss of their grandchildren, especially the gentle and beautifulLisuga. but with all their power they could not restore the dead to life.However, they gave to each body a beautiful light that will shine forever.And so it was that golden Liadlao became the sun, and copper Libulan themoon, while the thousands of pieces of silver Lisuga shine as the stars ofheaven. To wicked Licalibutan the gods gave no light, but resolved to makehis body support a new race of people. So Captan gave Maguayan a seed, andhe planted it on the land, which, as you will remember, was part ofLicalibutan's huge body.Soon a bamboo tree grew up, and from the hollow of one of its branches aman and a woman came out. The man's name was Sicalac, and the woman wascalled Sicabay. They were the parents of the human race. Their first childwas a son whom they called Libo. afterwards they had a daughter who wasknown as Saman. Pandaguan was a younger son and he had a son called Arion.Pandaguan was very clever and invented a trap to catch fish. The veryfirst thing he caught was a huge shark. When he brought it to land, itlooked so great and fierce that he thought it was surely a god, and he atonce ordered his people to worship it. Soon all gathered around and beganto sing and pray to the shark. Suddenly the sky and sea opened, and thegods came out and ordered Pandaguan to throw the shark back into the seaand to worship none but them.All were afraid except Pandaguan. He grew very bold and answered that theshark was as big as the gods, and that since he had been able to overpowerit he would also be able to conquer the gods. Then Captan, hearing this,struck Pandaguan with a small thunderbolt, for he did not wish to kill himbut merely to teach him a lesson. Then he and Maguayan decided to punishthese people by scattering them over the earth, so they carried some toone land and some to another. Many children were afterwards born, and thusthe earth became inhabited in all parts.Pandaguan did not die. After lying on the ground for thirty days heregained his strength, but his body was blackened from the lightning, andall his descendants ever since that day have been black.His first son, Arion, was taken north, but as he had been born before hisfather's punishment he did not lose his color, and all his peopletherefore are white.Libo and Saman were carried south, where the hot sun scorched their bodiesand caused all their descendants to be of a brown color.A son of Saman and a daughter of Sicalac were carried east, where the landat first was so lacking in food that they were compelled to eat clay. Onthis account their children and their children's children have always beenyellow in color.And so the world came to be made and peopled. The sun and moon shine inthe sky, and the beautiful stars light up the night. All over the land, onthe body of the envious Licalibutan, the children of' Sicalac and Sicabayhave grown great in numbers. May they live forever in peace and brotherlylove!