From the Danish.There was once a man who had three daughters, and they were all marriedto trolls, who lived underground. One day the man thought that he wouldpay them a visit, and his wife gave him some dry bread to eat by theway. After he had walked some distance he grew both tired and hungry, sohe sat down on the east side of a mound and began to eat his dry bread.The mound then opened, and his youngest daughter came out of it, andsaid, 'Why, father! why are you not coming in to see me?''Oh,' said he, 'if I had known that you lived here, and had seen anyentrance, I would have come in.'Then he entered the mound along with her.The troll came home soon after this, and his wife told him that herfather was come, and asked him to go and buy some beef to make brothwith.'We can get it easier than that!' said the troll.He fixed an iron spike into one of the beams of the roof, and ran hishead against this till he had knocked several large pieces off his head.He was just as well as ever after doing this, and they got their brothwithout further trouble.The troll then gave the old man a sackful of money, and laden with thishe betook himself homewards. When he came near his home he rememberedthat he had a cow about to calve, so he laid down the money on theground, ran home as fast as he could, and asked his wife whether the cowhad calved yet.'What kind of a hurry is this to come home in?' said she. 'No, the cowhas not calved yet.''Then you must come out and help me in with a sackful of money,' saidthe man.'A sackful of money?' cried his wife.'Yes, a sackful of money,' said he. 'Is that so very wonderful?'His wife did not believe very much what he told her, but she humouredhim, and went out with him.When they came to the spot where he had left it there was no moneythere. a thief had come along and stolen it. His wife then grew angryand scolded him heartily.'Well, well!' said he, 'hang the money! I know what I have learned.''What have you learned?' said she.'Ah! I know that,' said the man.After some time had passed the man had a mind to visit his second eldestdaughter. His wife again gave him some dry bread to eat, and when hegrew tired and hungry he sat down on the east side of a mound and beganto eat it. As he sat there his daughter came up out of the mound, andinvited him to come inside, which he did very willingly.Soon after this the troll came home. It was dark by that time, and hiswife bade him go and buy some candles.'Oh, we shall soon get a light,' said the troll. With that he dipped hisfingers into the fire, and they then gave light without being burned inthe least.The old man got two sacks of money here, and plodded away homewards withthese. When he was very nearly home he again thought of the cow thatwas with calf, so he laid down the money, ran home, and asked his wifewhether the cow had calved yet.'Whatever is the matter with you?' said she. 'You come hurrying as ifthe whole house was about to fall. You may set your mind at rest: thecow has not calved yet.'The man now asked her to come and help him home with the two sacks ofmoney. She did not believe him very much, but he continued to assure herthat it was quite true, till at last she gave in and went with him. Whenthey came to the spot there had again been a thief there and taken themoney. It was no wonder that the woman was angry about this, but the manonly said, 'Ah, if you only knew what I have learned.'A third time the man set out to visit his eldest daughter. When hecame to a mound he sat down on the east side of it and ate the dry breadwhich his wife had given him to take with him. The daughter then cameout of the mound and invited her father to come inside.In a little the troll came home, and his wife asked him to go and buysome fish.'We can get them much more easily than that,' said the troll. 'Give meyour dough trough and your ladle.'They seated themselves in the trough, and rowed out on the lake whichwas beside the mound. When they had got out a little way the troll saidto his wife, 'Are my eyes green?''No, not yet,' said she.He rowed on a little further and asked again, 'Are my eyes not greenyet?''Yes,' said his wife, 'they are green now.'Then the troll sprang into the water and ladled up so many fish that ina short time the trough could hold no more. They then rowed home again,and had a good meal off the fish.The old man now got three sacks full of money, and set off home withthem. When he was almost home the cow again came into his head, and helaid down the money. This time, however, he took his wooden shoes andlaid them above the money, thinking that no one would take it afterthat. Then he ran home and asked his wife whether the cow had calved. Ithad not, and she scolded him again for behaving in this way, but in theend he persuaded her to go with him to help him with the three sacks ofmoney.When they came to the spot they found only the wooden shoes, for a thiefhad come along in the meantime and taken all the money. The woman wasvery angry, and broke out upon her husband. but he took it all veryquietly, and only said, 'Hang the money! I know what I have learned.''What have you learned I should like to know?' said his wife.'You will see that yet,' said the man.One day his wife took a fancy for broth, and said to him, 'Oh, go to thevillage, and buy a piece of beef to make broth.''There's no need of that,' said he. 'we can get it an easier way.' Withthat he drove a spike into a beam, and ran his head against it, and inconsequence had to lie in bed for a long time afterwards.After he had recovered from this his wife asked him one day to go andbuy candles, as they had none.'No,' he said, 'there's no need for that.' and he stuck his hand intothe fire. This also made him take to bed for a good while.When he had got better again his wife one day wanted fish, and asked himto go and buy some. The man, however, wished again to show what he hadlearned, so he asked her to come along with him and bring her doughtrough and a ladle. They both seated themselves in this, and rowed uponthe lake. When they had got out a little way the man said, 'Are my eyesgreen?''No,' said his wife. 'why should they be?'They rowed a little further out, and he asked again, 'Are my eyes notgreen yet?''What nonsense is this?' said she. 'why should they be green?''Oh, my dear,' said he, 'can't you just say that they are green?''Very well,' said she, 'they are green.'As soon as he heard this he sprang out into the water with the ladle forthe fishes, but he just got leave to stay there with them!