There dwelt a knight in Grianaig of the land of the West, who had threedaughters, and for goodness and beauty they had not their like in allthe isles. All the people loved them, and loud was the weeping whenone day, as the three maidens sat on the rocks on the edge of the sea,dipping their feet in the water, there arose a great beast from underthe waves and swept them away beneath the ocean. And none knew whitherthey had gone, or how to seek them.Now there lived in a town a few miles off a soldier who had three sons,fine youths and strong, and the best players at shinny in that country.At Christmastide that year, when families met together and greatfeasts were held, Ian, the youngest of the three brothers, said:'Let us have a match at shinny on the lawn of the knight of Grianaig,for his lawn is wider and the grass smoother than ours.'But the others answered:'Nay, for he is in sorrow, and he will think of the games that we haveplayed there when his daughters looked on.''Let him be pleased or angry as he will,' said Ian. 'we will drive ourball on his lawn to day.'And so it was done, and Ian won three games from his brothers. But theknight looked out of his window, and was wroth. and bade his men bringthe youths before him. When he stood in his hall and beheld them, hisheart was softened somewhat. but his face was angry as he asked:'Why did you choose to play shinny in front of my castle when you knewfull well that the remembrance of my daughters would come back to me?The pain which you have made me suffer you shall suffer also.''Since we have done you wrong,' answered Ian, the youngest, 'build us aship, and we will go and seek your daughters. Let them be to windward,or to leeward, or under the four brown boundaries of the sea, we willfind them before a year and a day goes by, and will carry them back toGrianaig.'In seven days the ship was built, and great store of food and wineplaced in her. And the three brothers put her head to the sea andsailed away, and in seven days the ship ran herself on to a beach ofwhite sand, and they all went ashore. They had none of them ever seenthat land before, and looked about them. Then they saw that, a shortway from them, a number of men were working on a rock, with one manstanding over them.'What place is this?' asked the eldest brother. And the man who wasstanding by made answer:'This is the place where dwell the three daughters of the knight ofGrianaig, who are to be wedded to morrow to three giants.''How can we find them?' asked the young man again. And the overlookeranswered:'To reach the daughters of the knight of Grianaig you must get intothis basket, and be drawn by a rope up the face of this rock.''Oh, that is easily done,' said the eldest brother, jumping into thebasket, which at once began to move up, and up, and up till he hadgone about half way, when a fat black raven flew at him and pecked himtill he was nearly blind, so that he was forced to go back the way hehad come.After that the second brother got into the creel. but he fared nobetter, for the raven flew upon him, and he returned as his brother haddone.'Now it is my turn,' said Ian. But when he was halfway up the ravenset upon him also.'Quick! quick!' cried Ian to the men who held the rope. 'Quick! quick!or I shall be blinded!' And the men pulled with all their might, and inanother moment Ian was on top, and the raven behind him.'Will you give me a piece of tobacco?' asked the raven, who was nowquite quiet.'You rascal! Am I to give you tobacco for trying to peck my eyes out?'answered Ian.'That was part of my duty,' replied the raven. 'but give it to me, andI will prove a good friend to you.' So Ian broke off a piece oftobacco and gave it to him. The raven hid it under his wing, and thenwent on. 'Now I will take you to the house of the big giant, where theknight's daughter sits sewing, sewing, till even her thimble is wetwith tears.' And the raven hopped before him till they reached a largehouse, the door of which stood open. They entered and passed throughone hall after the other, until they found the knight's daughter, asthe bird had said.'What brought you here?' asked she. And Ian made answer:'Why may I not go where you can go?''I was brought hither by a giant,' replied she.'I know that,' said Ian. 'but tell me where the giant is, that I mayfind him.''He is on the hunting hill,' answered she. 'and nought will bring himhome save a shake of the iron chain which hangs outside the gate. But,there, neither to leeward, nor to windward, nor in the four brownboundaries of the sea, is there any man that can hold battle againsthim, save only Ian, the soldier's son, and he is now but sixteen yearsold, and how shall he stand against the giant?''In the land whence I have come there are many men with the strength ofIan,' answered he. And he went outside and pulled at the chain, but hecould not move it, and fell on to his knees. At that he rose swiftly,and gathering up his strength, he seized the chain, and this time heshook it so that the link broke. And the giant heard it on the huntinghill, and lifted his head, thinking 'It sounds like the noise of Ian, the soldier's son,' said he. 'but asyet he is only sixteen years old. Still, I had better look to it.'And home he came.'Are you Ian, the soldier's son?' he asked, as he entered the castle.'No, of a surety,' answered the youth, who had no wish that they shouldknow him.'Then who are you in the leeward, or in the windward, or in the fourbrown boundaries of the sea, who are able to move my battle  chain?''That will be plain to you after wrestling with me as I wrestle with mymother. And one time she got the better of me, and two times she didnot.'So they wrestled, and twisted and strove with each other till the giantforced Ian to his knee.'You are the stronger,' said Ian. and the giant answered:'All men know that!' And they took hold of each other once more, and atlast Ian threw the giant, and wished that the raven were there to helphim. No sooner had he wished his wish than the raven came.'Put your hand under my right wing and you will find a knife sharpenough to take off his head,' said the raven. And the knife was sosharp that it cut off the giant's head with a blow.'Now go and tell the daughter of the king of Grianaig. but take heedlest you listen to her words, and promise to go no further, for shewill seek to help you. Instead, seek the middle daughter, and when youhave found her, you shall give me a piece of tobacco for reward.''Well have you earned the half of all I have,' answered Ian. But theraven shook his head.'You know only what has passed, and nothing of what lies before. Ifyou would not fail, wash yourself in clean water, and take balsam froma vessel on top of the door, and rub it over your body, and to morrowyou will be as strong as many men, and I will lead you to the dwellingof the middle one.'Ian did as the raven bade him, and in spite of the eldest daughter'sentreaties, he set out to seek her next sister. He found her where shewas seated sewing, her very thimble wet from the tears which she hadshed.'What brought you here?' asked the second sister.'Why may I not go where you can go?' answered he. 'and why are youweeping?''Because in one day I shall be married to the giant who is on thehunting hill.''How can I get him home?' asked Ian.'Nought will bring him but a shake of that iron chain which hangsoutside the gate. But there is neither to leeward, nor to westward,nor in the four brown boundaries of the sea, any man that can holdbattle with him, save Ian, the soldier's son, and he is now but sixteenyears of age.''In the land whence I have come there are many men with the strength ofIan,' said he. And he went outside and pulled at the chain, but hecould not move it, and fell on his knees. At that he rose to his feet,and gathering up his strength mightily, he seized the chain, and thistime he shook it so that three links broke. And the second giant heardit on the hunting hill, and lifted his head, thinking 'It sounds like the noise of Ian, the soldier's son,' said he. 'but asyet he is only sixteen years old. Still, I had better look to it.'And home he came.'Are you Ian, the soldier's son?' he asked, as he entered the castle.'No, of a surety,' answered the youth, who had no wish that this giantshould know him either. 'but I will wrestle with you as if I were he.'Then they seized each other by the shoulder, and the giant threw him onhis two knees. 'You are the stronger,' cried Ian. 'but I am not beatenyet.' And rising to his feet, he threw his arms round the giant.Backwards and forwards they swayed, and first one was uppermost andthen the other. but at length Ian worked his leg round the giant's andthrew him to the ground. Then he called to the raven, and the ravencame flapping towards him, and said: 'Put your hand under my rightwing, and you will find there a knife sharp enough to take off hishead.' And sharp indeed it was, for with a single blow, the giant'shead rolled from his body.'Now wash yourself with warm water, and rub yourself over with oil ofbalsam, and to  morrow you will be as strong as many men. But bewareof the words of the knight's daughter, for she is cunning, and will tryto keep you at her side. So farewell. but first give me a piece oftobacco.''That I will gladly,' answered Ian breaking off a large bit.He washed and rubbed himself that night, as the raven had told him, andthe next morning he entered the chamber where the knight's daughter wassitting.'Abide here with me,' she said, 'and be my husband. There is silverand gold in plenty in the castle.' But he took no heed, and went onhis way till he reached the castle where the knight's youngest daughterwas sewing in the hall. And tears dropped from her eyes on to herthimble.'What brought you here?' asked she. And Ian made answer:'Why may I not go where you can go?''I was brought hither by a giant.''I know full well,' said he.'Are you Ian, the soldier's son?' asked she again. And again heanswered:'Yes, I am. but tell me, why are you weeping?''To morrow the giant will return from the hunting hill, and I mustmarry him,' she sobbed. And Ian took no heed, and only said: 'How canI bring him home?''Shake the iron chain that hangs outside the gate.'And Ian went out, and gave such a pull to the chain that he fell downat full length from the force of the shake. But in a moment he was onhis feet again, and seized the chain with so much strength that fourlinks came off in his hand. And the giant heard him in the huntinghill, as he was putting the game he had killed into a bag.'In the leeward, or the windward, or in the four brown boundaries ofthe sea, there is none who could give my chain a shake save only Ian,the soldier's son. And if he has reached me, then he has left my twobrothers dead behind him.' With that he strode back to the castle, theearth trembling under him as he went.'Are you Ian, the soldier's son?' asked he. And the youth answered:'No, of a surety.''Then who are you in the leeward, or the windward, or in the four brownboundaries of the sea, who are able to shake my battle chain? There isonly Ian, the soldier's son, who can do this, and he is but now sixteenyears old.'I will show you who I am when you have wrestled with me,' said Ian.And they threw their arms round each other, and the giant forced Ian onto his knees. but in a moment he was up again, and crooking his leground the shoulders of the giant, he threw him heavily to the ground.'Stumpy black raven, come quick!' cried he. and the raven came, andbeat the giant about the head with his wings, so that he could not getup. Then he bade Ian take out a sharp knife from under his feathers,which he carried with him for cutting berries, and Ian smote off thegiant's head with it. And so sharp was that knife that, with one blow,the giant's head rolled on the ground.'Rest now this night also,' said the raven, 'and to morrow you shalltake the knight's three daughters to the edge of the rock that leads tothe lower world. But take heed to go down first yourself, and let themfollow after you. And before I go you shall give me a piece oftobacco.''Take it all,' answered Ian, 'for well have you earned it.''No. give me but a piece. You know what is behind you, but you have noknowledge of what is before you.' And picking up the tobacco in hisbeak, the raven flew away.So the next morning the knight's youngest daughter loaded asses withall the silver and gold to be found in the castle, and she set out withIan the soldier's son for the house where her second sister was waitingto see what would befall. She also had asses laden with preciousthings to carry away, and so had the eldest sister, when they reachedthe castle where she had been kept a prisoner. Together they all rodeto the edge of the rock, and then Ian lay down and shouted, and thebasket was drawn up, and in it they got one by one, and were let downto the bottom. When the last one was gone, Ian should have gone also,and left the three sisters to come after him. but he had forgotten theraven's warning, and bade them go first, lest some accident shouldhappen. Only, he begged the youngest sister to let him keep the littlegold cap which, like the others, she wore on her head. and then hehelped them, each in her turn, into the basket.Long he waited, but wait as he might, the basket never came back, forin their joy at being free the knight's daughters had forgotten allabout Ian, and had set sail in the ship that had brought him and hisbrothers to the land of Grianaig.At last he began to understand what had happened to him, and while hewas taking counsel with himself what had best be done, the raven cameto him.'You did not heed my words,' he said gravely.'No, I did not, and therefore am I here,' answered Ian, bowing his head.'The past cannot be undone,' went on the raven. 'He that will not takecounsel will take combat. This night, you will sleep in the giant'scastle. And now you shall give me a piece of tobacco.''I will. But, I pray you, stay in the castle with me.''That I may not do, but on the morrow I will come.'And on the morrow he did, and he bade Ian go to the giant's stablewhere stood a horse to whom it mattered nothing if she journeyed overland or sea.'But be careful,' he added, 'how you enter the stable, for the doorswings without ceasing to and fro, and if it touches you, it will causeyou to cry out. I will go first and show you the way.''Go,' said Ian. And the raven gave a bob and a hop, and thought he wasquite safe, but the door slammed on a feather of his tail, and hescreamed loudly.Then Ian took a run backwards, and a run forwards, and made a spring.but the door caught one of his feet, and he fell fainting on the stablefloor. Quickly the raven pounced on him, and picked him up in his beakand claws, and carried him back to the castle, where he laid ointmentson his foot till it was as well as ever it was.'Now come out to walk,' said the raven, 'but take heed that you wondernot at aught you may behold. neither shall you touch anything. And,first, give me a piece of tobacco.'Many strange things did Ian behold in that island, more than he hadthought for. In a glen lay three heroes stretched on their backs, doneto death by three spears that still stuck in their breasts. But hekept his counsel and spake nothing, only he pulled out the spears, andthe men sat up and said:'You are Ian the soldier's son, and a spell is laid upon you to travelin our company, to the cave of the black fisherman.'So together they went till they reached the cave, and one of the menentered, to see what should be found there. And he beheld a hag,horrible to look upon, seated on a rock, and before he could speak, shestruck him with her club, and changed him into a stone. and in likemanner she dealt with the other three. At the last Ian entered.'These men are under spells,' said the witch, 'and alive they can neverbe till you have anointed them with the water which you must fetch fromthe island of Big Women. See that you do not tarry.' And Ian turnedaway with a sinking heart, for he would fain have followed the youngestdaughter of the knight of Grianaig.'You did not obey my counsel,' said the raven, hopping towards him,'and so trouble has come upon you. But sleep now, and to  morrow youshall mount the horse which is in the giant's stable, that can gallopover sea and land. When you reach the island of Big Women, sixteenboys will come to meet you, and will offer the horse food, and wish totake her saddle and bridle from her. But see that they touch her not,and give her food yourself, and yourself lead her into the stable, andshut the door. And be sure that for every turn of the lock given bythe sixteen stable lads you give one. And now you shall break me off apiece of tobacco.'The next morning Ian arose, and led the horse from the stable, withoutthe door hurting him, and he rode across the sea to the island of theBig Women, where the sixteen stable lads met him, and each one offeredto take his horse, and to feed her, and to put her into the stable.But Ian only answered:'I myself will put her in and will see to her.' And thus he did. Andwhile he was rubbing her sides the horse said to him:'Every kind of drink will they offer you, but see you take none, savewhey and water only.' And so it fell out. and when the sixteenstable boys saw that he would drink nothing, they drank it allthemselves, and one by one lay stretched around the board.Then Ian felt pleased in his heart that he had withstood their fairwords, and he forgot the counsel that the horse had likewise given himsaying:'Beware lest you fall asleep, and let slip the chance of getting homeagain'. for while the lads were sleeping sweet music reached his ears,and he slept also.When this came to pass the steed broke through the stable door, andkicked him and woke him roughly.'You did not heed my counsel,' said she. 'and who knows if it is nottoo late to win over the sea? But first take that sword which hangs onthe wall, and cut off the heads of the sixteen grooms.'Filled with shame at being once more proved heedless, Ian arose and didas the horse bade him. Then he ran to the well and poured some of thewater into a leather bottle, and jumping on the horse's back rode overthe sea to the island where the raven was waiting for him.'Lead the horse into the stable,' said the raven, 'and lie downyourself to sleep, for to morrow you must make the heroes to liveagain, and must slay the hag. And have a care not to be so foolishto morrow as you were to day.''Stay with me for company,' begged Ian. but the raven shook his head,and flew away.In the morning Ian awoke, and hastened to the cave where the old hagwas sitting, and he struck her dead as she was, before she could castspells on him. Next he sprinkled the water over the heroes, who cameto life again, and together they all journeyed to the other side of theisland, and there the raven met them.'At last you have followed the counsel that was given you,' said theraven. 'and now, having learned wisdom, you may go home again toGrianaig. There you will find that the knight's two eldest daughtersare to be wedded this day to your two brothers, and the youngest to thechief of the men at the rock. But her gold cap you shall give to meand, if you want it, you have only to think of me and I will bring itto you. And one more warning I give you. If anyone asks you whenceyou came, answer that you have come from behind you. and if anyone asksyou whither you are going, say that you are going before you.'So Ian mounted the horse and set her face to the sea and her back tothe shore, and she was off, away and away till she reached the churchof Grianaig, and there, in a field of grass, beside a well of water, heleaped down from his saddle.'Now,' the horse said to him, 'draw your sword and cut off my head.'But Ian answered:'Poor thanks would that be for all the help I have had from you.''It is the only way that I can free myself from the spells that werelaid by the giants on me and the raven. for I was a girl and he was ayouth wooing me! So have no fears, but do as I have said.'Then Ian drew his sword as she bade him, and cut off her head, and wenton his way without looking backwards. As he walked he saw a womanstanding at her house door. She asked him whence he had come, and heanswered as the raven had told him, that he came from behind. Next sheinquired whither he was going, and this time he made reply that he wasgoing on before him, but that he was thirsty and would like a drink.'You are an impudent fellow,' said the woman. 'but you shall have adrink.' And she gave him some milk, which was all she had till herhusband came home.'Where is your husband?' asked Ian, and the woman answered him:'He is at the knight's castle trying to fashion gold and silver into acap for the youngest daughter, like unto the caps that her sisterswear, such as are not to be found in all this land. But, see, he isreturning. and now we shall hear how he has sped.'At that the man entered the gate, and beholding a strange youth, hesaid to him: 'What is your trade, boy?''I am a smith,' replied Ian. And the man answered:'Good luck has befallen me, then, for you can help me to make a cap forthe knight's daughter.''You cannot make that cap, and you know it,' said Ian.'Well, I must try,' replied the man, 'or I shall be hanged on a tree.so it were a good deed to help me.''I will help you if I can,' said Ian. 'but keep the gold and silver foryourself, and lock me into the smithy to night, and I will work myspells.' So the man, wondering to himself, locked him in.As soon as the key was turned in the lock Ian wished for the raven, andthe raven came to him, carrying the cap in his mouth.'Now take my head off,' said the raven. But Ian answered:'Poor thanks were that for all the help you have given me.''It is the only thanks you can give me,' said the raven, 'for I was ayouth like yourself before spells were laid on me.'Then Ian drew his sword and cut off the head of the raven, and shut hiseyes so that he might see nothing. After that he lay down and slepttill morning dawned, and the man came and unlocked the door and shookthe sleeper.'Here is the cap,' said Ian drowsily, drawing it from under his pillow.And he fell asleep again directly.The sun was high in the heavens when he woke again, and this time hebeheld a tall, brown  haired youth standing by him.'I am the raven,' said the youth, 'and the spells are broken. But nowget up and come with me.'Then they two went together to the place where Ian had left the deadhorse. but no horse was there now, only a beautiful maiden.'I am the horse,' she said, 'and the spells are broken'. and she andthe youth went away together.In the meantime the smith had carried the cap to the castle, and bade aservant belonging to the knight's youngest daughter bear it to hermistress. But when the girl's eyes fell on it, she cried out:'He speaks false. and if he does not bring me the man who really madethe cap I will hang him on the tree beside my window.'The servant was filled with fear at her words, and hastened and toldthe smith, who ran as fast as he could to seek for Ian. And when hefound him and brought him into the castle, the girl was first struckdumb with joy. then she declared that she would marry nobody else. Atthis some one fetched to her the knight of Grianaig, and when Ian hadtold his tale, he vowed that the maiden was right, and that his elderdaughters should never wed with men who had not only taken glory tothemselves which did not belong to them, but had left the real doer ofthe deeds to his fate.And the wedding guests said that the knight had spoken well. and thetwo elder brothers were fain to leave the country, for no one wouldconverse with them.