THE REST?'" (_page 40_))Blue BeardThere was a man who had fine houses, both in town and country, a dealof silver and gold plate, embroidered furniture, and coaches gildedall over with gold. But this man had the misfortune to have a bluebeard, which made him so frightfully ugly, that all the women andgirls ran away from him.One of his neighbours, a lady of quality, had two daughters who wereperfect beauties. He desired of her one of them in marriage, leavingto her the choice which of the two she would bestow upon him. Theywould neither of them have him, and each made the other welcome ofhim, being not able to bear the thought of marrying a man who had ablue beard. And what besides gave them disgust and aversion, was hishaving already been married to several wives, and nobody ever knewwhat became of them.Blue Beard, to engage their affection, took them, with the lady theirmother, and three or four ladies of their acquaintance, with otheryoung people of the neighbourhood, to one of his country seats, wherethey stayed a whole week. There was nothing then to be seen butparties of pleasure, hunting, fishing, dancing, mirth and feasting.Nobody went to bed, but all passed the night in playing tricks uponeach other. In short, every thing succeeded so well, that the youngestdaughter began to think the master of the house not to have a beard sovery blue, and that he was a mighty civil gentleman. As soon as theyreturned home, the marriage was concluded.About a month afterwards Blue Beard told his wife that he was obligedto take a country journey for six weeks at least, about affairs ofvery great consequence, desiring her to divert herself in his absence,to send for her friends and acquaintances, to carry them into thecountry, if she pleased, and to make good cheer wherever she was."Here," said he, "are the keys of the two great wardrobes, wherein Ihave my best furniture. these are of my silver and gold plate, whichis not every day in use. these open my strong boxes, which hold mymoney, both gold and silver. these my caskets of jewels. and this isthe master key to all my apartments. But for this little one here, itis the key of the closet at the end of the great gallery on the groundfloor. Open them all. go into all and every one of them. except thatlittle closet which I forbid you, and forbid it in such a manner that,if you happen to open it, there will be no bounds to my just anger andresentment."She promised to observe, very exactly, whatever he had ordered. whenhe, after having embraced her, got into his coach and proceeded on hisjourney.Her neighbours and good friends did not stay to be sent for by thenewmarried lady, so great was their impatience to see all the richfurniture of her house, not daring to come while her husband wasthere, because of his blue beard which frightened them. They ran thro'all the rooms, closets, and wardrobes, which were all so rich andfine, that they seemed to surpass one another.After that, they went up into the two great rooms, where were the bestand richest furniture. they could not sufficiently admire the numberand beauty of the tapestry, beds, couches, cabinets, stands, tables,and looking glasses in which you might see yourself from head to foot.some of them were framed with glass, others with silver, plain andgilded, the finest and most magnificent which were ever seen. Theyceased not to extol and envy the happiness of their friend, who in themean time no way diverted herself in looking upon all these richthings, because of the impatience she had to go and open the closet ofthe ground floor. She was so much pressed by her curiosity, that,without considering that it was very uncivil to leave her company, shewent down a little back stair case, and with such excessive haste,that she had twice or thrice like to have broken her neck.Being come to the closet door, she made a stop for some time, thinkingupon her husband's orders, and considering what unhappiness mightattend her if she was disobedient. but the temptation was so strongshe could not overcome it. She took then the little key, and opened ittrembling. but could not at first see any thing plainly, because thewindows were shut. After some moments she began to perceive that thefloor was all covered over with clotted blood, in which were reflectedthe bodies of several dead women ranged against the walls: these wereall the wives whom Blue Beard had married and murdered one afteranother. She was like to have died for fear, and the key, which shepulled out of the lock, fell out of her hand.After having somewhat recovered her senses, she took up the key,locked the door, and went up stairs into her chamber to recoverherself. but she could not, so much was she frightened. Havingobserved that the key of the closet was stained with blood, she triedtwo or three times to wipe it off, but the blood would not come off.in vain did she wash it, and even rub it with soap and sand, the bloodstill remained, for the key was a Fairy, and she could never make itquite clean. when the blood was gone off from one side, it came againon the other.Blue Beard returned from his journey the same evening, and said, hehad received letters upon the road, informing him that the affair hewent about was ended to his advantage. His wife did all she could toconvince him she was extremely glad of his speedy return. Next morninghe asked her for the keys, which she gave him, but with such atrembling hand, that he easily guessed what had happened."What," said he, "is not the key of my closet among the rest?""I must certainly," answered she, "have left it above upon the table.""Fail not," said Blue Beard, "to bring it me presently."After putting him off several times, she was forced to bring him thekey. Blue Beard, having very attentively considered it, said to hiswife:"How comes this blood upon the key?""I do not know," cried the poor woman, paler than death."You do not know," replied Blue Beard. "I very well know, you wereresolved to go into the closet, were you not? Mighty well, Madam. youshall go in, and take your place among the ladies you saw there."Upon this she threw herself at her husband's feet, and begged hispardon with all the signs of a true repentance for her disobedience.She would have melted a rock, so beautiful and sorrowful was she. butBlue Beard had a heart harder than any rock."You must die, Madam," said he, "and that presently.""Since I must die," answered she, looking upon him with her eyes allbathed in tears, "give me some little time to say my prayers.""I give you," replied Blue Beard, "half a quarter of an hour, but notone moment more."When she was alone, she called out to her sister, and said to her:"Sister Anne" (for that was her name), "go up I beg you, upon the topof the tower, and look if my brothers are not coming. they promised methat they would come to day, and if you see them, give them a sign tomake haste."Her sister Anne went up upon the top of the tower, and the poorafflicted wife cried out from time to time, "Anne, sister Anne, do yousee any one coming?"And sister Anne said:"I see nothing but the sun, which makes a dust, and the grass growinggreen."In the mean while Blue Beard, holding a great scimitar in his hand,cried out as loud as he could bawl to his wife:"Come down instantly, or I shall come up to you.""One moment longer, if you please," said his wife, and then she criedout very softly:"Anne, sister Anne, dost thou see any body coming?"And sister Anne answered:"I see nothing but the sun, which makes a dust, and the grass growinggreen.""Come down quickly," cried Blue Beard, "or I will come up to you.""I am coming," answered his wife. and then she cried:"Anne, sister Anne, dost thou see any one coming?""I see," replied sister Anne, "a great dust that comes this way.""Are they my brothers?""Alas! no, my dear sister, I see a flock of sheep.""Will you not come down?" cried Blue Beard."One moment longer," said his wife, and then she cried out:"Anne, sister Anne, dost thou see nobody coming?""I see," said she, "two horsemen coming, but they are yet a great wayoff.""God be praised," she cried presently, "they are my brothers. I ambeckoning to them, as well as I can, for them to make haste."Then Blue Beard bawled out so loud, that he made the whole housetremble. The distressed wife came down, and threw herself at his feet,all in tears, with her hair about her shoulders."Nought will avail," said Blue Beard, "you must die". then, takinghold of her hair with one hand, and lifting up his scimitar with theother, he was going to take off her head.The poor lady turning about to him, and looking at him with dyingeyes, desired him to afford her one little moment to recollectherself."No, no," said he, "recommend thyself to God," and was just ready tostrike.At this very instant there was such a loud knocking at the gate, thatBlue Beard made a sudden stop. The gate was opened, and presentlyentered two horsemen, who drawing their swords, ran directly to BlueBeard. He knew them to be his wife's brothers, one a dragoon, theother a musqueteer. so that he ran away immediately to save himself.but the two brothers pursued so close, that they overtook him beforehe could get to the steps of the porch, when they ran their swordsthro' his body and left him dead. The poor wife was almost as dead asher husband, and had not strength enough to rise and welcome herbrothers.Blue Beard had no heirs, and so his wife became mistress of all hisestate. She made use of one part of it to marry her sister Anne to ayoung gentleman who had loved her a long while. another part to buycaptains' commissions for her brothers. and the rest to marry herselfto a very worthy gentleman, who made her forget the ill time she hadpassed with Blue Beard.