(21) From the Red Indian.Far away, in North America, where the Red Indians dwell, there lived along time ago a beautiful maiden, who was lovelier than any other girlin the whole tribe. Many of the young braves sought her in marriage, butshe would listen to one only a handsome chief, who had taken her fancysome years before. So they were to be married, and great rejoicings weremade, and the two looked forward to a long life of happiness together,when the very night before the wedding feast a sudden illness seized thegirl, and, without a word to her friends who were weeping round her, shepassed silently away.The heart of her lover had been set upon her, and the thought of herremained with him night and day. He put aside his bow, and went neitherto fight nor to hunt, but from sunrise to sunset he sat by the placewhere she was laid, thinking of his happiness that was buried there.At last, after many days, a light seemed to come to him out of thedarkness. He remembered having heard from the old, old people of thetribe, that there was a path that led to the Land of Souls that if yousought carefully you could find it.So the next morning he got up early, and put some food in his pouch andslung an extra skin over his shoulders, for he knew not how longhis journey would take, nor what sort of country he would have to gothrough. Only one thing he knew, that if the path was there, he wouldfind it. At first he was puzzled, as there seemed no reason he should goin one direction more than another. Then all at once he thought he hadheard one of the old men say that the Land of Souls lay to the south,and so, filled with new hope and courage, he set his face southwards.For many, many miles the country looked the same as it did round his ownhome. The forests, the hills, and the rivers all seemed exactly like theones he had left. The only thing that was different was the snow, whichhad lain thick upon the hills and trees when he started, but grew lessand less the farther he went south, till it disappeared altogether. Soonthe trees put forth their buds, and flowers sprang up under his feet,and instead of thick clouds there was blue sky over his head, andeverywhere the birds were singing. Then he knew that he was in the rightroad.The thought that he should soon behold his lost bride made his heartbeat for joy, and he sped along lightly and swiftly. Now his way ledthrough a dark wood, and then over some steep cliffs, and on the top ofthese he found a hut or wigwam. An old man clothed in skins, and holdinga staff in his hand, stood in the doorway. and he said to the youngchief who was beginning to tell his story, 'I was waiting for you,wherefore you have come I know. It is but a short while since she whomyou seek was here. Rest in my hut, as she also rested, and I will tellyou what you ask, and whither you should go.'On hearing these words, the young man entered the hut, but his heart wastoo eager within him to suffer him to rest, and when he arose, the oldman rose too, and stood with him at the door. 'Look,' he said, 'at thewater which lies far out yonder, and the plains which stretch beyond.That is the Land of Souls, but no man enters it without leaving his bodybehind him. So, lay down your body here. your bow and arrows, your skinand your dog. They shall be kept for you safely.'Then he turned away, and the young chief, light as air, seemed hardly totouch the ground. and as he flew along the scents grew sweeter and theflowers more beautiful, while the animals rubbed their noses againsthim, instead of hiding as he approached, and birds circled round him,and fishes lifted up their heads and looked as he went by. Very soon henoticed with wonder, that neither rocks nor trees barred his path. Hepassed through them without knowing it, for indeed, they were not rocksand trees at all, but only the souls of them. for this was the Land ofShadows.So he went on with winged feet till he came to the shores of a greatlake, with a lovely island in the middle of it. while on the bank of thelake was a canoe of glittering stone, and in the canoe were two shiningpaddles.The chief jumped straight into the canoe, and seizing the paddles pushedoff from the shore, when to his joy and wonder he saw following him inanother canoe exactly like his own the maiden for whose sake he had madethis long journey. But they could not touch each other, for between themrolled great waves, which looked as if they would sink the boats, yetnever did. And the young man and the maiden shrank with fear, for downin the depths of the water they saw the bones of those who had diedbefore, and in the waves themselves men and women were struggling, andbut few passed over. Only the children had no fear, and reached theother side in safety. Still, though the chief and the young girl quailedin terror at these horrible sights and sounds, no harm came to them,for their lives had been free from evil, and the Master of Life had saidthat no evil should happen unto them. So they reached unhurt the shoreof the Happy Island, and wandered through the flowery fields and by thebanks of rushing streams, and they knew not hunger nor thirst. neithercold nor heat. The air fed them and the sun warmed them, and they forgotthe dead, for they saw no graves, and the young man's thoughts turnednot to wars, neither to the hunting of animals. And gladly would thesetwo have walked thus for ever, but in the murmur of the wind he heardthe Master of Life saying to him, 'Return whither you came, for I havework for you to do, and your people need you, and for many years youshall rule over them. At the gate my messenger awaits you, and you shalltake again your body which you left behind, and he will show you whatyou are to do. Listen to him, and have patience, and in time to come youshall rejoin her whom you must now leave, for she is accepted, and willremain ever young and beautiful, as when I called her hence from theLand of Snows.'