Otway in A Tour in Connaught also notes beliefs among the peopleof Inishbofin which I found flourishing over seventy years later in thatprimitive place. It was firmly believed that the hills were full offairies, "romping and carousing within," and that they carried offchildren and robbed milk and butter. The sprites could exercisemalignant power on infants especially before baptism, stealing thehandsome ones and replacing them by puny withered changelings. The onlyway to get rid of these was to set a pot on the fire and threaten to boilthe fairy child, who then vanishes and the real child was brought back.Women who die in childbirth are believed to have been carried off tofairyland.I met everywhere, from Ballycastle to Inishbofin, beliefs as to theexistence of changelings. Lady Wilde gives several from Inishark whichseem to be good local tales. (Note 1) I must only give the shortestcondensation of the beliefs.An old woman came into a house and looked at a child without saying"God bless you". it got ill, a strange "wise woman" told the parents thatit had been changed and directed them to get a bit of the old woman'scloak. This made the elf sneeze and the true child was brought back.A man saw the fairies carrying off a boy, and, signing the cross,rescued the infant. He found the mother weeping over the supposedcorpse, which he made her throw into the fire, where it came to life andflew up the chimney. He then gave her the real baby.A man, whose young wife had long been childless, taunted her, and shesoon after bore a lovely boy. One day to his horror it suddenly grew along beard, and he beat his wife, at whose screams two red capped womencame and beat him till he asked pardon. The real child sent a tuft ofrushes to the mother, and she was able to enter the fairy palace. An oldwoman brought her to the king and said she was the nurse of his own son.He restored her own child and said the man who beat her was a fairydisguised as her husband. She invoked God's name and fell senseless,eventually recovering and returning home to find she had been three yearsabsent. She found that her husband had detected the changeling and putit on the fire, when it shrieked and flew up the chimney.Mary Callan of Shark while sitting alone with her newborn child waswrapped in a cloak by two men and carried away to the Fairy Hall. Shetouched her eye with the fairies' ointment and saw a crowd of herneighbors' supposed dead children who told her that they could not returntill Doomsday. One also told her that the men were waiting to steal herchild till the candle she had lit should go out, and bade her tell hismother that he was alive. He gave her a leaf to crush when in trouble,and she found herself outside of the Hill, returning home, to find herchild dying, she crushed the leaf and the infant recovered. The leaf wasput into an amulet.A changeling, found playing pipes behind a tub of meal, was put on ashovel over the fire and vanished.