There was an old soldier who had been long in the wars   so long, thathe was quite out at elbows, and he did notknow where to go to find a living. So he walked up moors, down glens, tillat last he came to a farm, from which the goodman had gone away to market. The wife of the farmer was a very foolishwoman. The farmer was foolish enough, too, and itis hard to say which of the two was the most foolish. When you've heard mytale you may decide.Now before the farmer goes to market says he to his wife, "Here is tenpounds all in gold. Take care of it till I comehome." If the man had not been a fool he would never have given the moneyto his wife to keep.Well, off he went in his cart to market, and the wife said to herself,"I will keep the ten pounds quite safe from thieves."So she tied it up in a rag, and she put the rag up the parlor chimney."There," said she. "No thieves will ever find it now. that is quitesure."Jack Hannaford, the old soldier, came and rapped at the door."Who is there?" asked the wife."Jack Hannaford.""Where do you come from?""Paradise.""Lord a' mercy! And maybe you've seen my old man there," alluding toher former husband."Yes, I have.""And how was he a doing?" asked the goody (woman)."But middling. He cobbles old shoes, and he has nothing but cabbage forvictuals.""Deary me!" exclaimed the woman. "Didn't he send a message to me?""Yes, he did," replied Jack Hannaford. "He said that he was out ofleather, and his pockets were empty, so you were tosend him a few shillings to buy a fresh stock of leather.""He shall have them, bless his poor soul!" And away went the wife tothe parlor chimney, and she pulled the rag with theten pounds in it from the chimney, and she gave the whole sum to thesoldier, telling him that her old man was to use as muchas he wanted, and to send back the rest.It was not long that Jack waited after receiving the money. He went offas fast as he could walk.Presently the farmer came home and asked for his money. The wife toldhim that she had sent it by a soldier to herformer husband in paradise, to buy him leather for cobbling the shoes ofthe saints and angels of heaven. The farmer wasvery angry, and he swore that he had never met with such a fool as hiswife. But the wife said that her husband was a greaterfool for letting her have the money.There was no time to waste words, so the farmer mounted his horse androde off after Jack Hannaford. The old soldierheard the horse's hoofs clattering on the road behind him, so he knew itmust be the farmer pursuing him. He lay down onthe ground, and shading his eyes with one hand, looked up into the sky,and pointed heavenwards with the other hand."What are you about there?" asked the farmer pulling up."Lord save you!" exclaimed Jack. "I've seen a rare sight! A man goingstraight up into the sky, as if he were walking on a road.""Can you see him still?""Yes, I can.""Where?""Get off your horse and lie down.""If you will hold the horse."Jack did so readily."I cannot see him," said the farmer."Shade your eyes with your hand, and you'll soon see a man flying awayfrom you."Sure enough he did so, for Jack leaped on the horse, and rode away withit. The farmer walked home without his horse."You are a bigger fool than I am," said the wife, "for I did only onefoolish thing, and you have done two."