Once there was a poor widow, as often there has been, and she had oneson. A very scarce summer came, and they didn't know how they'd livetill the new potatoes would be fit for eating. So Jack said to hismother one evening, "Mother, bake my cake, and kill my hen, till I goseek my fortune. and if I meet it, never fear but I'll soon be back toshare it with you."So she did as he asked her, and he set out at break of day on hisjourney. His mother came along with him to the yard gate, and says she,"Jack, which would you rather have, half the cake and half the hen withmy blessing, or the whole of 'em with my curse?""O musha, mother," says Jack, "why do you ax me that question? sure youknow I wouldn't have your curse and Damer's estate along with it.""Well, then, Jack," says she, "here's the whole lot of 'em with mythousand blessings along with them." So she stood on the yard fence andblessed him as far as her eyes could see him.Well, he went along and along till he was tired, and ne'er a farmer'shouse he went into wanted a boy. At last his road led by the side of abog, and there was a poor ass up to his shoulders near a big bunch ofgrass he was striving to come at."Ah, then, Jack asthore," says he, "help me out or I'll be drowned.""Never say't twice," says Jack, and he pitched in big stones and sodsinto the slob, till the ass got good ground under him."Thank you, Jack," says he, when he was out on the hard road. "I'll doas much for you another time. Where are you going?""Faith, I'm going to seek my fortune till harvest comes in, God blessit!""And if you like," says the ass, "I'll go along with you. who knowswhat luck we may have!""With all my heart, it's getting late, let us be jogging."Well, they were going through a village, and a whole army of gossoonswere hunting a poor dog with a kettle tied to his tail. He ran up toJack for protection, and the ass let such a roar out of him, that thelittle thieves took to their heels as if the ould boy was after them."More power to you, Jack," says the dog."I'm much obleeged to you: where is the baste and yourself going?""We're going to seek our fortune till harvest comes in.""And wouldn't I be proud to go with you!" says the dog, "and get rid ofthem ill conducted boys. purshuin' to 'em.""Well, well, throw your tail over your arm, and come along."They got outside the town, and sat down under an old wall, and Jackpulled out his bread and meat, and shared with the dog. and the assmade his dinner on a bunch of thistles. While they were eating andchatting, what should come by but a poor half starved cat, and themoll row he gave out of him would make your heart ache."You look as if you saw the tops of nine houses since breakfast," saysJack. "here's a bone and something on it.""May your child never know a hungry belly!" says Tom. "it's myselfthat's in need of your kindness. May I be so bold as to ask where yezare all going?""We're going to seek our fortune till the harvest comes in, and you mayjoin us if you like.""And that I'll do with a heart and a half," says the cat, "and thank'eefor asking me."'Off they set again, and just as the shadows of the trees were threetimes as long as themselves, they heard a great cackling in a fieldinside the road, and out over the ditch jumped a fox with a fine blackcock in his mouth."Oh, you anointed villain!" says the ass, roaring like thunder."At him, good dog!" says Jack, and the word wasn't out of his mouthwhen Coley was in full sweep after the Red Dog. Reynard dropped hisprize like a hot potato, and was off like shot, and the poor cock cameback fluttering and trembling to Jack and his comrades."O musha, naybours!" says he, "wasn't it the height o' luck that threwyou in my way! Maybe I won't remember your kindness if ever I find youin hardship. and where in the world are you all going?""We're going to seek our fortune till the harvest comes in. you mayjoin our party if you like, and sit on Neddy's crupper when your legsand wings are tired."Well, the march began again, and just as the sun was gone down theylooked around, and there was neither cabin nor farm house in sight."Well, well," says Jack, "the worse luck now the better another time,and it's only a summer night after all. We'll go into the wood, andmake our bed on the long grass."No sooner said than done. Jack stretched himself on a bunch of drygrass, the ass lay near him, the dog and cat lay in the ass's warm lap,and the cock went to roost in the next tree.Well, the soundness of deep sleep was over them all, when the cock tooka notion of crowing."Bother you, Black Cock!" says the ass: "you disturbed me from as nicea wisp of hay as ever I tasted. What's the matter?""It's daybreak that's the matter: don't you see light yonder?""I see a light indeed," says Jack, "but it's from a candle it's coming,and not from the sun. As you've roused us we may as well go over, andask for lodging."So they all shook themselves, and went on through grass, and rocks, andbriars, till they got down into a hollow, and there was the lightcoming through the shadow, and along with it came singing, andlaughing, and cursing."Easy, boys!" says Jack: "walk on your tippy toes till we see what sortof people we have to deal with."So they crept near the window, and there they saw six robbers inside,with pistols, and blunderbushes, and cutlashes, sitting at a table,eating roast beef and pork, and drinking mulled beer, and wine, andwhisky punch."Wasn't that a fine haul we made at the Lord of Dunlavin's!" says oneugly looking thief with his mouth full, "and it's little we'd get onlyfor the honest porter! here's his purty health!""The porter's purty health!" cried out every one of them, and Jack benthis finger at his comrades."Close your ranks, my men," says he in a whisper, "and let every onemind the word of command."So the ass put his fore hoofs on the sill of the window, the dog got onthe ass's head, the cat on the dog's head, and the cock on the cat'shead. Then Jack made a sign, and they all sung out like mad."Hee haw, hee haw!" roared the ass. "bow wow!" barked the dog."meaw meaw!" cried the cat. "cock a doodle doo!" crowed the cock."Level your pistols!" cried Jack, "and make smithereens of 'em. Don'tleave a mother's son of 'em alive. present, fire!" With that they gaveanother halloo, and smashed every pane in the window. The robbers werefrightened out of their lives. They blew out the candles, threw downthe table, and skelped out at the back door as if they were in earnest,and never drew rein till they were in the very heart of the wood.Jack and his party got into the room, closed the shutters, lighted thecandles, and ate and drank till hunger and thirst were gone. Then theylay down to rest. Jack in the bed, the ass in the stable, the dog onthe door mat, the cat by the fire, and the cock on the perch.At first the robbers were very glad to find themselves safe in thethick wood, but they soon began to get vexed."This damp grass is very different from our warm room," says one."I was obliged to drop a fine pig's foot," says another."I didn't get a tayspoonful of my last tumbler," says another."And all the Lord of Dunlavin's gold and silver that we left behind!"says the last."I think I'll venture back," says the captain, "and see if we canrecover anything.""That's a good boy!" said they all, and away he went.The lights were all out, and so he groped his way to the fire, andthere the cat flew in his face, and tore him with teeth and claws. Helet a roar out of him, and made for the room door, to look for a candleinside. He trod on the dog's tail, and if he did, he got the marks ofhis teeth in his arms, and legs, and thighs."Thousand murders!" cried he. "I wish I was out of this unlucky house."When he got to the street door, the cock dropped down upon him with hisclaws and bill, and what the cat and dog done to him was only aflay bite to what he got from the cock."Oh, tattheration to you all, you unfeeling vagabones!" says he, whenhe recovered his breath. and he staggered and spun round and round tillhe reeled into the stable, back foremost, but the ass received him witha kick on the broadest part of his small clothes, and laid himcomfortably on the dunghill.When he came to himself, he scratched his head, and began to think whathappened him. and as soon as he found that his legs were able to carryhim, he crawled away, dragging one foot after another, till he reachedthe wood."Well, well," cried them all, when he came within hearing, "any chanceof our property?""You may say chance," says he, "and it's itself is the poor chance allout. Ah, will any of you pull a bed of dry grass for me? All thesticking plaster in Enniscorthy will be too little for the cuts andbruises I have on me. Ah, if you only knew what I have gone through foryou! When I got to the kitchen fire, looking for a sod of lighted turf,what should be there but an old woman carding flax, and you may see themarks she left on my face with the cards. I made to the room door asfast as I could, and who should I stumble over but a cobbler and hisseat, and if he did not work at me with his awls and his pinchers youmay call me a rogue. Well, I got away from him somehow, but when I waspassing through the door, it must be the divel himself that pounceddown on me with his claws, and his teeth, that were equal to sixpennynails, and his wings ill luck be in his road! Well, at last I reachedthe stable, and there, by way of salute, I got a pelt from asledge hammer that sent me half a mile off. If you don't believe me,I'll give you leave to go and judge for yourselves.""Oh, my poor captain," says they, "we believe you to the nines. Catchus, indeed, going within a hen's race of that unlucky cabin!"Well, before the sun shook his doublet next morning, Jack and hiscomrades were up and about. They made a hearty breakfast on what wasleft the night before, and then they all agreed to set off to thecastle of the Lord of Dunlavin, and give him back all his gold andsilver. Jack put it all in the two ends of a sack and laid it acrossNeddy's back, and all took the road in their hands. Away they went,through bogs, up hills, down dales, and sometimes along the yellow highroad, till they came to the hall door of the Lord of Dunlavin, and whoshould be there, airing his powdered head, his white stockings, and hisred breeches, but the thief of a porter.He gave a cross look to the visitors, and says he to Jack, "What do youwant here, my fine fellow? there isn't room for you all.""We want," says Jack, "what I'm sure you haven't to give us and thatis, common civility.""Come, be off, you lazy strollers!" says he, "while a cat 'ud belicking her ear, or I'll let the dogs at you.""Would you tell a body," says the cock that was perched on the ass'shead, "who was it that opened the door for the robbers the other night?"Ah! maybe the porter's red face didn't turn the colour of his frill,and the Lord of Dunlavin and his pretty daughter, that were standing atthe parlour window unknownst to the porter, put out their heads."I'd be glad, Barney," says the master, "to hear your answer to thegentleman with the red comb on him.""Ah, my lord, don't believe the rascal. sure I didn't open the door tothe six robbers.""And how did you know there were six, you poor innocent?" said the lord."Never mind, sir," says Jack, "all your gold and silver is there inthat sack, and I don't think you will begrudge us our supper and bedafter our long march from the wood of Athsalach.""Begrudge, indeed! Not one of you will ever see a poor day if I canhelp it."So all were welcomed to their heart's content, and the ass and the dogand the cock got the best posts in the farmyard, and the cat tookpossession of the kitchen. The lord took Jack in hands, dressed himfrom top to toe in broadcloth, and frills as white as snow, andturnpumps, and put a watch in his fob. When they sat down to dinner,the lady of the house said Jack had the air of a born gentleman abouthim, and the lord said he'd make him his steward. Jack brought hismother, and settled her comfortably near the castle, and all were ashappy as you please.