There was once upon a time a poor widow who had an only son named Jack,and a cow named Milky White. And all they had to live on was the milk thecow gave every morning, which they carried to the market and sold. But onemorning Milky White gave no milk, and they didn't know what to do."What shall we do, what shall we do?" said the widow, wringing herhands."Cheer up, mother, I'll go and get work somewhere," said Jack."We've tried that before, and nobody would take you," said his mother."We must sell Milky White and with the money start a shop, or something.""All right, mother," says Jack. "It's market day today, and I'll soonsell Milky White, and then we'll see what we can do."So he took the cow's halter in his hand, and off he started. He hadn'tgone far when he met a funny looking old man, who said to him, "Goodmorning, Jack.""Good morning to you," said Jack, and wondered how he knew his name."Well, Jack, and where are you off to?" said the man."I'm going to market to sell our cow there.""Oh, you look the proper sort of chap to sell cows," said the man. "Iwonder if you know how many beans make five.""Two in each hand and one in your mouth," says Jack, as sharp as aneedle."Right you are," says the man, "and here they are, the very beansthemselves," he went on, pulling out of his pocket a number ofstrange looking beans. "As you are so sharp," says he, "I don't mind doinga swap with you   your cow for these beans.""Go along," says Jack. "Wouldn't you like it?""Ah! You don't know what these beans are," said the man. "If you plantthem overnight, by morning they grow right up to the sky.""Really?" said Jack. "You don't say so.""Yes, that is so. And if it doesn't turn out to be true you can haveyour cow back.""Right," says Jack, and hands him over Milky White's halter and pocketsthe beans.Back goes Jack home, and as he hadn't gone very far it wasn't dusk bythe time he got to his door."Back already, Jack?" said his mother. "I see you haven't gotMilky White, so you've sold her. How much did you get for her?""You'll never guess, mother," says Jack."No, you don't say so. Good boy! Five pounds? Ten? Fifteen? No, itcan't be twenty.""I told you you couldn't guess. What do you say to these beans? They'remagical. Plant them overnight and   ""What!" says Jack's mother. "Have you been such a fool, such a dolt,such an idiot, as to give away my Milky White, the best milker in theparish, and prime beef to boot, for a set of paltry beans? Take that! Takethat! Take that! And as for your precious beans here they go out of thewindow. And now off with you to bed. Not a sup shall you drink, and not abit shall you swallow this very night."So Jack went upstairs to his little room in the attic, and sad andsorry he was, to be sure, as much for his mother's sake as for the loss ofhis supper.At last he dropped off to sleep.When he woke up, the room looked so funny. The sun was shining intopart of it, and yet all the rest was quite dark and shady. So Jack jumpedup and dressed himself and went to the window. And what do you think hesaw? Why, the beans his mother had thrown out of the window into thegarden had sprung up into a big beanstalk which went up and up and up tillit reached the sky. So the man spoke truth after all.The beanstalk grew up quite close past Jack's window, so all he had todo was to open it and give a jump onto the beanstalk which ran up justlike a big ladder. So Jack climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed, and heclimbed, and he climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed till at last hereached the sky. And when he got there he found a long broad road going asstraight as a dart. So he walked along, and he walked along, and he walkedalong till he came to a great big tall house, and on the doorstep therewas a great big tall woman."Good morning, mum," says Jack, quite polite like. "Could you be sokind as to give me some breakfast?" For he hadn't had anything to eat, youknow, the night before, and was as hungry as a hunter."It's breakfast you want, is it?" says the great big tall woman. "It'sbreakfast you'll be if you don't move off from here. My man is an ogre andthere's nothing he likes better than boys broiled on toast. You'd betterbe moving on or he'll be coming.""Oh! please, mum, do give me something to eat, mum. I've had nothing toeat since yesterday morning, really and truly, mum," says Jack. "I may aswell be broiled as die of hunger."Well, the ogre's wife was not half so bad after all. So she took Jackinto the kitchen, and gave him a hunk of bread and cheese and a jug ofmilk. But Jack hadn't half finished these when thump! thump! thump! thewhole house began to tremble with the noise of someone coming."Goodness gracious me! It's my old man," said the ogre's wife. "What onearth shall I do? Come along quick and jump in here." And she bundled Jackinto the oven just as the ogre came in.He was a big one, to be sure. At his belt he had three calves strung upby the heels, and he unhooked them and threw them down on the table andsaid, "Here, wife, broil me a couple of these for breakfast. Ah! what'sthis I smell?Fee fi fo fum,I smell the blood of an Englishman,Be he alive, or be he dead,I'll have his bones to grind my bread.""Nonsense, dear," said his wife. "You' re dreaming. Or perhaps yousmell the scraps of that little boy you liked so much for yesterday'sdinner. Here, you go and have a wash and tidy up, and by the time you comeback your breakfast'll be ready for you."So off the ogre went, and Jack was just going to jump out of the ovenand run away when the woman told him not. "Wait till he's asleep," saysshe. "he always has a doze after breakfast."Well, the ogre had his breakfast, and after that he goes to a big chestand takes out a couple of bags of gold, and down he sits and counts tillat last his head began to nod and he began to snore till the whole houseshook again.Then Jack crept out on tiptoe from his oven, and as he was passing theogre, he took one of the bags of gold under his arm, and off he pelterstill he came to the beanstalk, and then he threw down the bag of gold,which, of course, fell into his mother's garden, and then he climbed downand climbed down till at last he got home and told his mother and showedher the gold and said, "Well, mother, wasn't I right about the beans? Theyare really magical, you see."So they lived on the bag of gold for some time, but at last they cameto the end of it, and Jack made up his mind to try his luck once more atthe top of the beanstalk. So one fine morning he rose up early, and gotonto the beanstalk, and he climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed, and heclimbed, and he climbed, and he climbed till at last he came out onto theroad again and up to the great tall house he had been to before. There,sure enough, was the great tall woman a standing on the doorstep."Good morning, mum," says Jack, as bold as brass, "could you be so goodas to give me something to eat?""Go away, my boy," said the big tall woman, "or else my man will eatyou up for breakfast. But aren't you the youngster who came here oncebefore? Do you know, that very day my man missed one of his bags of gold.""That's strange, mum," said Jack, "I dare say I could tell yousomething about that, but I'm so hungry I can't speak till I've hadsomething to eat."Well, the big tall woman was so curious that she took him in and gavehim something to eat. But he had scarcely begun munching it as slowly ashe could when thump! thump! they heard the giant's footstep, and his wifehid Jack away in the oven.All happened as it did before. In came the ogre as he did before, said,"Fee fi fo fum," and had his breakfast off three broiled oxen.Then he said, "Wife, bring me the hen that lays the golden eggs." Soshe brought it, and the ogre said, "Lay," and it laid an egg all of gold.And then the ogre began to nod his head, and to snore till the houseshook.Then Jack crept out of the oven on tiptoe and caught hold of the goldenhen, and was off before you could say "Jack Robinson." But this time thehen gave a cackle which woke the ogre, and just as Jack got out of thehouse he heard him calling, "Wife, wife, what have you done with my goldenhen?"And the wife said, "Why, my dear?"But that was all Jack heard, for he rushed off to the beanstalk andclimbed down like a house on fire. And when he got home he showed hismother the wonderful hen, and said "Lay" to it. and it laid a golden eggevery time he said "Lay."Well, Jack was not content, and it wasn't long before he determined tohave another try at his luck up there at the top of the beanstalk. So onefine morning he rose up early and got to the beanstalk, and he climbed,and he climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed till he got to the top.But this time he knew better than to go straight to the ogre's house.And when he got near it, he waited behind a bush till he saw the ogre'swife come out with a pail to get some water, and then he crept into thehouse and got into the copper. He hadn't been there long when he heardthump! thump! thump! as before, and in came the ogre and his wife."Fee fi fo fum, I smell the blood of an Englishman," cried out theogre. "I smell him, wife, I smell him.""Do you, my dearie?" says the ogre's wife. "Then, if it's that littlerogue that stole your gold and the hen that laid the golden eggs he's sureto have got into the oven." And they both rushed to the oven.But Jack wasn't there, luckily, and the ogre' s wife said, "There youare again with your fee fi fo fum. Why, of course, it's the boy you caughtlast night that I've just broiled for your breakfast. How forgetful I am,and how careless you are not to know the difference between live and deadafter all these years."So the ogre sat down to the breakfast and ate it, but every now andthen he would mutter, "Well, I could have sworn  " and he'd get up andsearch the larder and the cupboards and everything, only, luckily, hedidn't think of the copper.After breakfast was over, the ogre called out, "Wife, wife, bring me mygolden harp."So she brought it and put it on the table before him. Then he said,"Sing!" and the golden harp sang most beautifully. And it went on singingtill the ogre fell asleep, and commenced to snore like thunder.Then Jack lifted up the copper lid very quietly and got down like amouse and crept on hands and knees till he came to the table, when up hecrawled, caught hold of the golden harp and dashed with it towards thedoor.But the harp called out quite loud, "Master! Master!" and the ogre wokeup just in time to see Jack running off with his harp.Jack ran as fast as he could, and the ogre came rushing after, andwould soon have caught him, only Jack had a start and dodged him a bit andknew where he was going. When he got to the beanstalk the ogre was notmore than twenty yards away when suddenly he saw Jack disappear like, andwhen he came to the end of the road he saw Jack underneath climbing downfor dear life. Well, the ogre didn't like trusting himself to such aladder, and he stood and waited, so Jack got another start.But just then the harp cried out, "Master! Master!" and the ogre swunghimself down onto the beanstalk, which shook with his weight. Down climbsJack, and after him climbed the ogre.By this time Jack had climbed down and climbed down and climbed downtill he was very nearly home. So he called out, "Mother! Mother! bring mean ax, bring me an ax." And his mother came rushing out with the ax in herhand, but when she came to the beanstalk she stood stock still withfright, for there she saw the ogre with his legs just through the clouds.But Jack jumped down and got hold of the ax and gave a chop at thebeanstalk which cut it half in two. The ogre felt the beanstalk shake andquiver, so he stopped to see what was the matter. Then Jack gave anotherchop with the ax, and the beanstalk was cut in two and began to toppleover. Then the ogre fell down and broke his crown, and the beanstalk cametoppling after.Then Jack showed his mother his golden harp, and what with showing thatand selling the golden eggs, Jack and his mother became very rich, and hemarried a great princess, and they lived happy ever after.