There lived a poor widow, whose cottage stood in a country village along distance from London, for many years.The widow had only a child named Jack, whom she gratified ineverything. The consequence of her partiality was that Jack paid littleattention to anything she said, and he was heedless and extravagant. Hisfollies were not owing to bad disposition but to his mother never havingchided him. As she was not wealthy, and he would not work, she was obligedto support herself and him by selling everything she had. At last nothingremained, only a cow.The widow, with tears in her eyes, could not help reproaching Jack."Oh! You wicked boy," said she. "By your prodigal course of life you havenow brought us both to fall! Heedless, heedless boy! I have not moneyenough to buy a bit of bread for another day. Nothing remains but my poorcow, and that must be sold, or we must starve!"Jack was in a degree of tenderness for a few minutes, but soon over.And then becoming very hungry for want of food, he teased his poor motherto let him sell the cow, to which at last she reluctantly consented.As he proceeded on his journey he met a butcher, who inquired why hewas driving the cow from home. Jack replied he was going to sell it. Thebutcher had some wonderful beans of different colors in his bag whichattracted Jack's notice. This the butcher saw, who, knowing Jack's easytemper, resolved to take advantage of it, and offered all the beans forthe cow. The foolish boy thought it a great offer. The bargain wasmomently struck, and the cow exchanged for a few paltry beans. When Jackhastened home with the beans and told his mother, and showed them to her,she kicked the beans away in a great passion. They flew in all directions,and were extended as far as the garden.Early in the morning Jack arose from his bed, and seeing somethingstrange from the window, he hastened downstairs into the garden, where hesoon found that some of the beans had grown in root and sprung upwonderfully. The stalks grew in an immense thickness and had so entwinedthat they formed a ladder like a chain in view.Looking upwards, he could not descry the top. It seemed to be lost inthe clouds. He tried it, discovered it firm and not to be shaken. A newidea immediately struck him. He would climb the beanstalk and see towhence it would lead. Full of this plan, which made him forget even hishunger, Jack hastened to communicate his intention to his mother.He instantly set out, and after climbing for some hours reached the topof the beanstalk, fatigued and almost exhausted. Looking round, he wassurprised to find himself in a strange country. It looked to be quite abarren desert. Not a tree, shrub, house, or living creature was to beseen.Jack sat himself pensively upon a block of stone and thought of hismother. His hunger attacked him, and now he appeared sorrowful for hisdisobedience in climbing the beanstalk against her will, and concludedthat he must now die for want of food.However, he walked on, hoping to see a house where he might begsomething to eat. Suddenly he observed a beautiful young female at somedistance. She was dressed in an elegant manner, and had a small white wandin her hand, on the top of which was a peacock of pure gold.She approached and said, "I will reveal to you a story your mother darenot. But before I begin, I require a solemn promise on your part to dowhat I command. I am a fairy, and unless you perform exactly what I directyou to do, you will deprive me of the power to assist you, and there islittle doubt but that you will die in the attempt."Jack was rather frightened at this caution, but promised to follow herdirections.Your father was a rich man, with a disposition greatlybenevolent. It was his practice never to refuse relief to the deserving inhis neighborhood, but, on the contrary, to seek out the helpless anddistressed.Not many miles from your father's house lived a huge giant whowas the dread of the country around for cruelty and oppression. Thiscreature was moreover of a very envious disposition, and disliked to hearothers talked of for their goodness and humanity, and he vowed to do him amischief, so that he might no longer hear his good actions made thesubject of everyone's conversation.Your father was too good a man to fear evil from others.Consequently it was not long before the cruel giant found an opportunityto put his wicked threats into practice, for hearing that your parentswere passing a few days with a friend at some distance from home, hecaused your father to be waylaid and murdered, and your mother to beseized on their way homeward.At the time this happened you were but a few months old. Yourpoor mother, almost dead with affright and horror, was borne away by thecruel giant's emissaries to a dungeon under his house, in which she andher poor babe were both long confined as prisoners. Distracted at theabsence of your parents, the servants went in search of them, but notidings of either could be obtained. Meantime he caused a will to be foundmaking over all your father's property to him as your guardian, and assuch he took open possession.After your mother had been some months in prison the giantoffered to restore her to liberty, on condition that she would solemnlyswear that she would never divulge the story of her wrongs to anyone. Toput it out of her power to do him any harm, should she break her oath, thegiant had her put on shipboard and taken to a distant country, where hehad her left with no more money for her support than what she obtainedfrom the sale of a few jewels she had secreted in her dress.I was appointed your father's guardian at his birth, butfairies have laws to which they are subject as well as mortals. A shorttime before the giant assassinated your father I transgressed. Mypunishment was a suspension of my power for a limited time, an unfortunatecircumstance, as it entirely prevented my assisting your father, even whenI most wished to do so.The day on which you met the butcher, as you went to sell yourmother's cow, my power was restored. It was I who secretly prompted you totake the beans in exchange for the cow. By my power the beanstalk grew toso great a height and formed a ladder. The giant lives in this country.You are the person appointed to punish him for all his wickedness. Youwill have dangers and difficulties to encounter, but you must persevere inavenging the death of your father, or you will not prosper in any of yourundertakings.As to the giant's possessions, everything he has is yours,though you are deprived of it. You may take, therefore, what part of ityou can. You must, however, be careful, for such is his love for gold thatthe first loss he discovers will make him outrageous and very watchful forthe future. But you must still pursue him, for it is only by stratagemthat you can ever hope to overcome him and become possessed of yourrightful property, and the means of retributive justice overtaking him forhis barbarous murder.One thing I desire is, do not let your mother know you areacquainted with your father's history till you see me again. Go along thedirect road. You will soon see the house where your cruel enemy lives.While you do as I order you I will protect and guard you. But remember, ifyou disobey my commands, a dreadful punishment awaits you."As soon as she had concluded she disappeared, leaving Jack to followhis journey. He walked on till after sunset, when to his great joy heespied a large mansion. This pleasant sight revived his drooping spirits.He redoubled his speed and reached it shortly. A well looking woman stoodat the door. He accosted her, begging she would give him a morsel of breadand a night's lodging. She expressed the greatest surprise at seeing himand said it was quite uncommon to see any strange creature near theirhouse, for it was mostly known that her husband was a very cruel andpowerful giant, and one that would eat human flesh if he could possiblyget it.This account terrified Jack greatly, but still, not forgetting thefairy's protection, he hoped to elude the giant, and therefore heentreated the woman to take him in for one night only and hide him whereshe thought proper. The good woman at last suffered herself to bepersuaded, for her disposition was remarkably compassionate, and at lastled him into the house.First they passed an elegant hall, finely furnished. They thenproceeded through several spacious rooms, all in the same style ofgrandeur, but they looked to be quite forsaken and desolate. A longgallery came next. It was very dark, just large enough to show thatinstead of a wall on each side there was a grating of iron, which partedoff a dismal dungeon, for whence issued the groans of several poor victimswhom the cruel giant reserved in confinement for his voracious appetite.Poor Jack was in a dreadful fright at witnessing such a horrible scene,which caused him to fear that he would never see his mother, but becaptured lastly for the giant's meat. But still he recollected the fairy,and a gleam of hope forced itself into his heart.The good woman then took Jack to a spacious kitchen, where a great firewas kept. She bade him sit down and gave him plenty to eat and drink. Inthe meantime he had done his meal and enjoyed himself, but was disturbedby a hard knocking at the gate, so loud as to cause the house to shake.Jack was concealed in the oven, and the giant's wife ran to let in herhusband.Jack heard him accost her in a voice like thunder, saying, "Wife! Wife!I smell fresh meat!""Oh! My dear," replied she, "it is nothing but the people in thedungeon."The giant seemed to believe her, and at last seated himself by thefireside, whilst the wife prepared supper.By degrees Jack endeavored to look at the monster through a smallcrevice. He was much surprised to see what an amazing quantity hedevoured, and supposed he would never have done eating and drinking.After his supper was ended a very curious hen was brought and placed onthe table before him. Jack's curiosity was so great to see what wouldhappen. He observed that it stood quiet before him, and every time thegiant said, "Lay!" the hen laid an egg of solid gold. The giant amusedhimself a long time with his hen.Meanwhile his wife went to bed At length he fell asleep and snored likethe roaring of a cannon. Jack, finding him still asleep at daybreak, creptsoftly from his hiding place, seized the hen, and ran off with her as fastas his legs could possibly allow him.Jack easily retraced his way to the beanstalk and descended it betterquicker than he expected. His mother was overjoyed to see him."Now, mother," said Jack, "I have brought you home that which will makeyou rich."The hen produced as many golden eggs as they desired. They sold themand soon became possessed of as much riches as they wanted.For a few months Jack and his mother lived very happy, but he longed topay the giant another visit. Early in the morning he again climbed thebeanstalk and reached the giant's mansion late in the evening.The woman was at the door as before. Jack told her a pitiful tale andprayed for a night's shelter. She told him that she had admitted a poorhungry boy once before, and the little ingrate had stolen one of thegiant's treasures, and ever since that she had been cruelly used. She,however, led him to the kitchen, gave him supper, and put him in a lumbercloset.Soon after, the giant came in, took his supper, and ordered his wife tobring down his bags of gold and silver. Jack peeped out of his hidingplace and observed the giant counting over his treasures, and after whichhe carefully put them in bags again, fell asleep, and snored as before.Jack crept quietly from his hiding place and approached the giant, whena little dog under the chair barked furiously. Contrary to hisexpectation, the giant slept on soundly, and the dog ceased. Jack seizedthe bags, reached the door in safety, and soon arrived at the bottom ofthe beanstalk.When he reached his mother's cottage he found it quite deserted.Greatly surprised, he ran into the village, and an old woman directed himto a house, where he found his mother apparently dying. On being informedof our hero's safe return, his mother revived and soon recovered. Jackthen presented two bags of gold and silver to her.Her mother discovered that something preyed upon his mind heavily andendeavored to discover the cause, but Jack knew too well what theconsequence would be should he discover the cause of his melancholy toher. He did his utmost therefore to conquer the great desire which nowforced itself upon him in spite of himself for another journey up thebeanstalk.On the longest day Jack arose as soon as it was light, ascended thebeanstalk and reached the top with some little trouble. He found the road,journey, etc., the same as on the former occasions. He arrived at thegiant's house in the evening and found his wife standing as usual at thedoor.Jack now appeared a different character, and had disguised himself socompletely that she did not appear to have any recollection of him.However, when he begged admittance, he found it very difficult to persuadeher. At last he prevailed, was allowed to go in, and was concealed in thecopper.When the giant returned, he said, as usual, "Wife! Wife! I smell freshmeat!"But Jack felt quite composed, as he had said so before, and had soonbeen satisfied. However, the giant started up suddenly, andnotwithstanding all his wife could say, he searched all round the room.Whilst this was going forward, Jack was much terrified, and ready to diewith fear, wishing himself at home a thousand times. But when the giantapproached the copper and put his hand upon the lid, Jack thought hisdeath was certain. Fortunately the giant ended his search there withoutmoving the lid, and seated himself quietly by the fireside.When the giant's supper was over he commanded his wife to fetch downhis harp. Jack peeped under the copper lid, and soon saw the mostbeautiful one that could be imagined. It was put by the giant on thetable, who said, "Play," and it instantly played of its own accord. Themusic was uncommonly fine. Jack was delighted and felt more anxious to getthe harp into his possession than either of the former treasures.The giant's soul was not attuned to harmony, and the music soon lulledhim into a sound sleep. Now, therefore, was the time to carry off theharp, as the giant appeared to be in a more profound sleep than usual.Jack soon made up his mind, got out of the copper, and seized the harp,which, however, being enchanted by a fairy, called out loudly, "Master,master!"The giant awoke, stood up, and tried to pursue Jack, but he had drankso much that he could not stand. Jack ran as quick as he could. In alittle time the giant recovered sufficiently to walk slowly, or rather toreel after him. Had he been sober, he must have overtaken Jack instantly.But as he then was, Jack contrived to be first at the top of thebeanstalk. The giant called to him all the way along the road in a voicelike thunder, and was sometimes very near to him.The moment Jack down the beanstalk he called out for a hatchet. One wasbrought him directly. Just at that instant the giant began to descend, butJack with his hatchet cut the beanstalk close off at the root, and thegiant fell headlong into the garden. The fall instantly killed him.Jack heartily begged his mother's pardon for all the sorrow andaffliction he had caused her, promising most faithfully to be dutiful andobedient to her in future. He proved as good as his word and became apattern of affectionate behavior and attention to his parent.