Jack Sells the CowOnce upon a time there was a poor widow who lived in a little cottagewith her only son Jack. Jack was a giddy, thoughtless boy, but very kindhearted and affectionate. There had been a hard winter, and after it thepoor woman had suffered from fever and ague. Jack did no work as yet, andby degrees they grew dreadfully poor.The widow saw that there was no means of keeping Jack and herself fromstarvation but by selling her cow. so one morning she said to her son, "Iam too weak to go myself, Jack, so you must take the cow to market for me,and sell her."Jack liked going to market to sell the cow very much. but as he was onthe way, he met a butcher who had some beautiful beans in his hand. Jackstopped to look at them, and the butcher told the boy that they were ofgreat value and persuaded the silly lad to sell the cow for these beans.When he brought them home to his mother instead of the money sheexpected for her nice cow, she was very vexed and shed many tears,scolding Jack for his folly. He was very sorry, and mother and son went tobed very sadly that night. their last hope seemed gone.At daybreak Jack rose and went out into the garden. "At least," hethought, "I will sow the wonderful beans. Mother says that they are justcommon scarlet runners, and nothing else. but I may as well sow them." Sohe took a piece of stick, and made some holes in the ground, and put inthe beans.That day they had very little dinner, and went sadly to bed, knowingthat for the next day there would be none, and Jack, unable to sleep fromgrief and vexation, got up at day dawn and went out into the garden.What was his amazement to find that the beans had grown up in thenight, and climbed up and up until they covered the high cliff thatsheltered the cottage and disappeared above it! The stalks had twined andtwisted themselves together until they formed quite a ladder."It would be easy to climb it," thought Jack. And, having thought ofthe experiment, he at once resolved to carry it out, for Jack was a goodclimber. However, after his late mistake about the cow, he thought he hadbetter consult his mother first.Wonderful Growth of the BeanstalkSo Jack called his mother, and they both gazed in silent wonder at thebeanstalk, which was not only of great height, but was thick enough tobear Jack's weight. "I wonder where it ends," said Jack to his mother. "Ithink I will climb up and see."His mother wished him not to venture up this strange ladder, but Jackcoaxed her to give her consent to the attempt, for he was certain theremust be something wonderful in the beanstalk. so at last she yielded tohis wishes.Jack instantly began to climb, and went up and up on the ladder likebeanstalk until everything he had left behind him   the cottage, thevillage, and even the tall church tower   looked quite little, and stillhe could not see the top of the beanstalk.Jack felt a little tired, and thought for a moment that he would goback again. but he was a very persevering boy, and he knew that the way tosucceed in anything is not to give up. So after resting for a moment hewent on. After climbing higher and higher, until he grew afraid to lookdown for fear he should be giddy, Jack at last reached the top of thebeanstalk, and found himself in a beautiful country, finely wooded, withbeautiful meadows covered with sheep. A crystal stream ran through thepastures. not far from the place where he had got off the beanstalk stooda fine, strong castle.Jack wondered very much that he had never heard of or seen this castlebefore. but when he reflected on the subject, he saw that it was as muchseparated from the village by the perpendicular rock on which it stood asif it were in another land.While Jack was standing looking at the castle, a very strange lookingwoman came out of the wood, and advanced towards him. She wore a pointedcap of quilted red satin turned up with ermine. Her hair streamed looseover her shoulders, and she walked with a staff. Jack took off his cap andmade her a bow."If you please, ma'am," said he, "is this your house?""No," said the old lady. "Listen, and I will tell you the story of thatcastle:"Once upon a time there was a noble knight, who lived in thiscastle, which is on the borders of fairyland. He had a fair and belovedwife and several lovely children. and as his neighbors, the little people,were very friendly towards him, they bestowed on him many excellent andprecious gifts.Rumor whispered of these treasures. and a monstrous giant, wholived at no great distance, and who was a very wicked being, resolved toobtain possession of them.So he bribed a false servant to let him inside the castle,when the knight was in bed and asleep, and he killed him as he lay. Thenhe went to the part of the castle which was the nursery, and also killedall the poor little ones he found there.Happily for her, the lady was not to be found. She had gonewith her infant son, who was only two or three months old, to visit herold nurse, who lived in the valley. and she had been detained all nightthere by a storm.The next morning, as soon as it was light, one of the servantsat the castle, who had managed to escape, came to tell the poor lady ofthe sad fate of her husband and her pretty babes. She could scarcelybelieve him at first, and was eager at once to go back and share the fateof her dear ones. But the old nurse, with many tears, besought her toremember that she had still a child, and that it was her duty to preserveher life for the sake of the poor innocent.The lady yielded to this reasoning, and consented to remain ather nurse's house as the best place of concealment. for the servant toldher that the giant had vowed, if he could find her, he would kill both herand her baby.Years rolled on. The old nurse died, leaving her cottage andthe few articles of furniture it contained to her poor lady, who dwelt init, working as a peasant for her daily bread. Her spinning wheel and themilk of a cow, which she had purchased with the little money she had withher, sufficed for the scanty subsistence of herself and her little son.There was a nice little garden attached to the cottage, in which theycultivated peas, beans, and cabbages, and the lady was not ashamed to goout at harvest time, and glean in the fields to supply her little son'swants.Jack, that poor lady is your mother. This castle was once yourfather's, and must again be yours.Jack uttered a cry of surprise. "My mother! Oh, madam, what ought I todo? My poor father! My dear mother!""Your duty requires you to win it back for your mother. But the task isa very difficult one, and full of peril, Jack. Have you courage toundertake it?""I fear nothing when I am doing right," said Jack."Then," said the lady in the red cap, "you are one of those who slaygiants. You must get into the castle, and if possible possess yourself ofa hen that lays golden eggs, and a harp that talks. Remember, all thegiant possesses is really yours." As she ceased speaking, the lady of thered hat suddenly disappeared, and of course Jack knew she was a fairy.Jack determined at once to attempt the adventure. so he advanced, andblew the horn which hung at the castle portal. The door was opened in aminute or two by a frightful giantess, with one great eye in the middle ofher forehead. As soon as Jack saw her he turned to run away, but shecaught him, and dragged him into the castle."Ho, ho!" she laughed terribly. "You didn't expect to see mehere, that is clear! No, I shan't let you go again. I am weary of my life.I am so overworked, and I don't see why I should not have a page as wellas other ladies. And you shall be my boy. You shall clean the knives, andblack the boots, and make the fires, and help me generally when thegiant is out. When he is at home I must hide you, for he has eaten up allmy pages hitherto, and you would be a dainty morsel, my little lad."While she spoke she dragged Jack right into the castle. The poor boywas very much frightened, as I am sure you and I would have been in hisplace. But he remembered that fear disgraces a man, so he struggled to bebrave and make the best of things."I am quite ready to help you, and do all I can to serve you, madam,"he said, "only I beg you will be good enough to hide me from your husband,for I should not like to be eaten at all.""That's a good boy," said the giantess, nodding her head. "it is luckyfor you that you did not scream out when you saw me, as the other boys whohave been here did, for if you had done so my husband would have awakenedand have eaten you, as he did them, for breakfast. Come here, child. gointo my wardrobe. He never ventures to open that . You willbe safe there."And she opened a huge wardrobe which stood in the great hall, and shuthim into it. But the keyhole was so large that it admitted plenty of air,and he could see everything that took place through it. By and by he hearda heavy tramp on the stairs, like the lumbering along of a great cannon,and then a voice like thunder cried out.Fe, fa, fi fo fum,I smell the breath of an Englishman.Let him be alive or let him be dead,I'll grind his bones to make my bread."Wife," cried the giant, "there is a man in the castle. Let me have himfor breakfast.""You are grown old and stupid," cried the lady in her loud tones. "Itis only a nice fresh steak off an elephant that I have cooked for youwhich you smell. There, sit down and make a good breakfast."And she placed a huge dish before him of savory steaming meat, whichgreatly pleased him and made him forget his idea of an Englishman being inthe castle. When he had breakfasted he went out for a walk. and then thegiantess opened the door, and made Jack come out to help her. He helpedher all day. She fed him well, and when evening came put him back in thewardrobe.The Hen That Lays Golden EggsThe giant came in to supper. Jack watched him through the keyhole, andwas amazed to see him pick a wolf's bone and put half a fowl at a timeinto his capacious mouth.When the supper was ended he bade his wife bring him his hen that laidthe golden eggs."It lays as well as it did when it belonged to that paltry knight," hesaid. "Indeed, I think the eggs are heavier than ever."The giantess went away, and soon returned with a little brown hen,which she placed on the table before her husband. "And now, my dear," shesaid, "I am going for a walk, if you don't want me any longer.""Go," said the giant. "I shall be glad to have a nap by and by."Then he took up the brown hen and said to her, "Lay!" And she instantlylaid a golden egg."Lay!" said the giant again. And she laid another."Lay!" he repeated the third time. And again a golden egg lay on thetable.Now Jack was sure this hen was that of which the fairy had spoken.By and by the giant put the hen down on the floor, and soon after wentfast asleep, snoring so loud that it sounded like thunder.Directly Jack perceived that the giant was fast asleep, he pushed openthe door of the wardrobe and crept out. Very softly he stole across theroom, and, picking up the hen, made haste to quit the apartment. He knewthe way to the kitchen, the door of which he found was left ajar. Heopened it, shut and locked it after him, and flew back to the beanstalk,which he descended as fast as his feet would move.When his mother saw him enter the house she wept for joy, for she hadfeared that the fairies had carried him away, or that the giant had foundhim. But Jack put the brown hen down before her, and told her how he hadbeen in the giant's castle, and all his adventures. She was very glad tosee the hen, which would make them rich once more.The Money BagsJack made another journey up the beanstalk to the giant's castle oneday while his mother had gone to market. But first he dyed his hair anddisguised himself. The old woman did not know him again and dragged him inas she had done before to help her to do the work. but she heard herhusband coming, and hid him in the wardrobe, not thinking that it was thesame boy who had stolen the hen. She bade him stay quite still there, orthe giant would eat him.Then the giant came in saying:Fe, fa, fi fo fum,I smell the breath of an Englishman.Let him be alive or let him be dead,I'll grind his bones to make my bread."Nonsense!" said the wife, "it is only a roasted bullock that I thoughtwould be a tit bit for your supper. sit down and I will bring it up atonce."The giant sat down, and soon his wife brought up a roasted bullock on alarge dish, and they began their supper. Jack was amazed to see them pickthe bones of the bullock as if it had been a lark.As soon as they had finished their meal, the giantess rose and said:,"Now, my dear, with your leave I am going up to my room to finish thestory I am reading. If you want me call for me.""First," answered the giant, "bring me my money bags, that I may countmy golden pieces before I sleep."The giantess obeyed. She went and soon returned with two large bagsover her shoulders, which she put down by her husband."There," she said. "that is all that is left of the knight's money.When you have spent it you must go and take another baron's castle.""That he shan't, if I can help it," thought Jack.The giant, when his wife was gone, took out heaps and heaps of goldenpieces, and counted them, and put them in piles, until he was tired of theamusement. Then he swept them all back into their bags, and leaning backin his chair fell fast asleep, snoring so loud that no other sound wasaudible.Jack stole softly out of the wardrobe, and taking up the bags of money(which were his very own, because the giant had stolen them from hisfather), he ran off, and with great difficulty descending the beanstalk,laid the bags of gold on his mother's table. She had just returned fromtown, and was crying at not finding Jack."There, mother, I have brought you the gold that my father lost.""Oh, Jack! You are a very good boy, but I wish you would not risk yourprecious life in the giant's castle. Tell me how you came to go thereagain." And Jack told her all about it.Jack's mother was very glad to get the money, but she did not like himto run any risk for her. But after a time Jack made up his mind to goagain to the giant's castle.So he climbed the beanstalk once more, and blew the horn at the giant'sgate. The giantess soon opened the door. She was very stupid, and did notknow him again, but she stopped a minute before she took him in. Shefeared another robbery. but Jack's fresh face looked so innocent that shecould not resist him, and so she bade him come in, and again hid him awayin the wardrobe.By and by the giant came home, and as soon as he had crossed thethreshold he roared out:Fe, fa, fi fo fum,I smell the breath of an Englishman.Let him be alive or let him be dead,I'll grind his bones to make my bread."You stupid old giant," said his wife, "you only smell a nice sheep,which I have grilled for your dinner."And the giant sat down, and his wife brought up a whole sheep for hisdinner. When he had eaten it all up, he said, "Now bring me my harp, and Iwill have a little music while you take your walk."The giantess obeyed, and returned with a beautiful harp. The frameworkwas all sparkling with diamonds and rubies, and the strings were all ofgold."This is one of the nicest things I took from the knight," said thegiant. "I am very fond of music, and my harp is a faithful servant."So he drew the harp towards him, and said, "Play!" And the harp playeda very soft, sad air."Play something merrier!" said the giant. And the harp played a merrytune."Now play me a lullaby," roared the giant, and the harp played a sweetlullaby, to the sound of which its master fell asleep.Then Jack stole softly out of the wardrobe, and went into the hugekitchen to see if the giantess had gone out. He found no one there, so hewent to the door and opened it softly, for he thought he could not do sowith the harp in his hand.Then he entered the giant's room and seized the harp and ran away withit. but as he jumped over the threshold the harp called out, "Master!Master!" And the giant woke up. With a tremendous roar he sprang from hisseat, and in two strides had reached the door.But Jack was very nimble. He fled like lightning with the harp, talkingto it as he went (for he saw it was a fairy), and telling it he was theson of its old master, the knight.Still the giant came on so fast that he was quite close to poor Jack,and had stretched out his great hand to catch him. But, luckily, just atthe moment he stepped upon a loose stone, stumbled, and fell flat on theground, where he lay at his full length.This accident gave Jack time to get on the beanstalk and hasten downit. but just as he reached their own garden he beheld the giant descendingafter him."Mother! mother!" cried Jack, "make haste and give me the ax." Hismother ran to him with a hatchet in her hand, and Jack with one tremendousblow cut through all the stems except one."Now, mother, stand out of the way!" said he. Jack's mother shrankback, and it was well she did so, for just as the giant took hold of thelast branch of the beanstalk, Jack cut the stem quite through and dartedfrom the spot.Down came the giant with a terrible crash, and as he fell on his head,he broke his neck, and lay dead at the feet of the woman he had so muchinjured.Before Jack and his mother had recovered from their alarm andagitation, a beautiful lady stood before them. "Jack," said she, "you haveacted like a brave knight's son, and deserve to have your inheritancerestored to you. Dig a grave and bury the giant, and then go and kill thegiantess.""But," said Jack, "I could not kill anyone unless I were fighting withhim. and I could not draw my sword upon a woman. Moreover, the giantesswas very kind to me."The fairy smiled on Jack. "I am very much pleased with your generousfeeling," she said. "Nevertheless, return to the castle, and act as youwill find needful."Jack asked the fairy if she would show him the way to the castle, asthe beanstalk was now down. She told him that she would drive him there inher chariot, which was drawn by two peacocks. Jack thanked her, and satdown in the chariot with her. The fairy drove him a long distance round,until they reached a village which lay at the bottom of the hill. Herethey found a number of miserable looking men assembled. The fairy stoppedher carriage and addressed them."My friends," said she, "the cruel giant who oppressed you and ate upall your flocks and herds is dead, and this young gentleman was the meansof your being delivered from him, and is the son of your kind old master,the knight."The men gave a loud cheer at these words, and pressed forward to saythat they would serve Jack as faithfully as they had served his father.The fairy bade them follow her to the castle, and they marched thither ina body, and Jack blew the horn and demanded admittance.The old giantess saw them coming from the turret loop hole. She wasvery much frightened, for she guessed that something had happened to herhusband. and as she came downstairs very fast she caught her foot in herdress, and fell from the top to the bottom and broke her neck.When the people outside found that the door was not opened to them,they took crowbars and forced the portal. Nobody was to be seen, but onleaving the hall they found the body of the giantess at the foot of thestairs.Thus Jack took possession of the castle. The fairy went and brought hismother to him, with the hen and the harp. He had the giantess buried, andendeavored as much as lay in his power to do right to those whom the gianthad robbed. Before her departure for fairyland, the fairy explained toJack that she had sent the butcher to meet him with the beans, in order totry what sort of lad he was."If you had looked at the gigantic beanstalk and only stupidly wonderedabout it," she said, "I should have left you where misfortune had placedyou, only restoring her cow to your mother. But you showed an inquiringmind, and great courage and enterprise, therefore you deserve to rise. andwhen you mounted the beanstalk you climbed the Ladder of Fortune."She then took her leave of Jack and his mother.