There was once a king who ruled over a kingdom somewhere between sunriseand sunset. It was as small as kingdoms usually were in old times, andwhen the king went up to the roof of his palace and took a look roundhe could see to the ends of it in every direction. But as it was all hisown, he was very proud of it, and often wondered how it would get alongwithout him. He had only one child, and that was a daughter, so heforesaw that she must be provided with a husband who would be fit to beking after him. Where to find one rich enough and clever enough to bea suitable match for the princess was what troubled him, and often kepthim awake at night.At last he devised a plan. He made a proclamation over all his kingdom(and asked his nearest neighbours to publish it in theirs as well) thatwhoever could bring him a dozen of the finest pearls the king had everseen, and could perform certain tasks that would be set him, shouldhave his daughter in marriage and in due time succeed to the throne. Thepearls, he thought, could only be brought by a very wealthy man, and thetasks would require unusual talents to accomplish them.There were plenty who tried to fulfil the terms which the king proposed.Rich merchants and foreign princes presented themselves one after theother, so that some days the number of them was quite annoying. but,though they could all produce magnificent pearls, not one of them couldperform even the simplest of the tasks set them. Some turned up, too,who were mere adventurers, and tried to deceive the old king withimitation pearls. but he was not to be taken in so easily, and they weresoon sent about their business. At the end of several weeks the streamof suitors began to fall off, and still there was no prospect of asuitable son in law.Now it so happened that in a little corner of the king's dominions,beside the sea, there lived a poor fisher, who had three sons, and theirnames were Peter, Paul, and Jesper. Peter and Paul were grown men, whileJesper was just coming to manhood.The two elder brothers were much bigger and stronger than the youngest,but Jesper was far the cleverest of the three, though neither Peter norPaul would admit this. It was a fact, however, as we shall see in thecourse of our story.One day the fisherman went out fishing, and among his catch for the dayhe brought home three dozen oysters. When these were opened, every shellwas found to contain a large and beautiful pearl. Hereupon the threebrothers, at one and the same moment, fell upon the idea of offeringthemselves as suitors for the princess. After some discussion, it wasagreed that the pearls should be divided by lot, and that each shouldhave his chance in the order of his age: of course, if the oldest wassuccessful the other two would be saved the trouble of trying.Next morning Peter put his pearls in a little basket, and set off forthe king's palace. He had not gone far on his way when he came upon theKing of the Ants and the King of the Beetles, who, with their armiesbehind them, were facing each other and preparing for battle.'Come and help me,' said the King of the Ants. 'the beetles are too bigfor us. I may help you some day in return.''I have no time to waste on other people's affairs,' said Peter. 'justfight away as best you can.' and with that he walked off and left them.A little further on the way he met an old woman.'Good morning, young man,' said she. 'you are early astir. What have yougot in your basket?''Cinders,' said Peter promptly, and walked on, adding to himself, 'Takethat for being so inquisitive.''Very well, cinders be it,' the old woman called after him, but hepretended not to hear her.Very soon he reached the palace, and was at once brought before theking. When he took the cover off the basket, the king and all hiscourtiers said with one voice that these were the finest pearls theyhad ever seen, and they could not take their eyes off them. But thena strange thing happened: the pearls began to lose their whiteness andgrew quite dim in colour. then they grew blacker and blacker till atlast they were just like so many cinders. Peter was so amazed that hecould say nothing for himself, but the king said quite enough for both,and Peter was glad to get away home again as fast as his legs wouldcarry him. To his father and brothers, however, he gave no account ofhis attempt, except that it had been a failure.Next day Paul set out to try his luck. He soon came upon the King of theAnts and the King of the Beetles, who with their armies had encamped onthe field of battle all night, and were ready to begin the fight again.'Come and help me,' said the King of the Ants. 'we got the worst of ityesterday. I may help you some day in return.''I don't care though you get the worst of it to day too,' said Paul.'I have more important business on hand than mixing myself up in yourquarrels.'So he walked on, and presently the same old woman met him. 'Goodmorning,' said she. 'what have YOU got in your basket?''Cinders,' said Paul, who was quite as insolent as his brother, andquite as anxious to teach other people good manners.'Very well, cinders be it,' the old woman shouted after him, but Paulneither looked back nor answered her. He thought more of what she said,however, after his pearls also turned to cinders before the eyes ofking and court: then he lost no time in getting home again, and was verysulky when asked how he had succeeded.The third day came, and with it came Jesper's turn to try his fortune.He got up and had his breakfast, while Peter and Paul lay in bed andmade rude remarks, telling him that he would come back quicker thanhe went, for if they had failed it could not be supposed that he wouldsucceed. Jesper made no reply, but put his pearls in the little basketand walked off.The King of the Ants and the King of the Beetles were again marshallingtheir hosts, but the ants were greatly reduced in numbers, and hadlittle hope of holding out that day.'Come and help us,' said their king to Jesper, 'or we shall becompletely defeated. I may help you some day in return.'Now Jesper had always heard the ants spoken of as clever and industriouslittle creatures, while he never heard anyone say a good word for thebeetles, so he agreed to give the wished for help. At the first chargehe made, the ranks of the beetles broke and fled in dismay, and thoseescaped best that were nearest a hole, and could get into it beforeJesper's boots came down upon them. In a few minutes the ants had thefield all to themselves. and their king made quite an eloquent speech toJesper, thanking him for the service he had done them, and promising toassist him in any difficulty.'Just call on me when you want me,' he said, 'where ever you are. I'mnever far away from anywhere, and if I can possibly help you, I shallnot fail to do it.'Jesper was inclined to laugh at this, but he kept a grave face, saidhe would remember the offer, and walked on. At a turn of the road hesuddenly came upon the old woman. 'Good morning,' said she. 'what haveYOU got in your basket?''Pearls,' said Jesper. 'I'm going to the palace to win the princess withthem.' And in case she might not believe him, he lifted the cover andlet her see them.'Beautiful,' said the old woman. 'very beautiful indeed. but they willgo a very little way towards winning the princess, unless you can alsoperform the tasks that are set you. However,' she said, 'I see you havebrought something with you to eat. Won't you give that to me: you aresure to get a good dinner at the palace.''Yes, of course,' said Jesper, 'I hadn't thought of that'. and he handedover the whole of his lunch to the old woman.He had already taken a few steps on the way again, when the old womancalled him back.'Here,' she said. 'take this whistle in return for your lunch. It isn'tmuch to look at, but if you blow it, anything that you have lost or thathas been taken from you will find its way back to you in a moment.'Jesper thanked her for the whistle, though he did not see of what use itwas to be to him just then, and held on his way to the palace.When Jesper presented his pearls to the king there were exclamationsof wonder and delight from everyone who saw them. It was not pleasant,however, to discover that Jesper was a mere fisher lad. that wasn't thekind of son in law that the king had expected, and he said so to thequeen.'Never mind,' said she, 'you can easily set him such tasks as he willnever be able to perform: we shall soon get rid of him.''Yes, of course,' said the king. 'really I forget things nowadays, withall the bustle we have had of late.'That day Jesper dined with the king and queen and their nobles, and atnight was put into a bedroom grander than anything of the kind he hadever seen. It was all so new to him that he could not sleep a wink,especially as he was always wondering what kind of tasks would be sethim to do, and whether he would be able to perform them. In spite of thesoftness of the bed, he was very glad when morning came at last.After breakfast was over, the king said to Jesper, 'Just come with me,and I'll show you what you must do first.' He led him out to the barn,and there in the middle of the floor was a large pile of grain. 'Here,'said the king, 'you have a mixed heap of wheat, barley, oats, and rye, asackful of each. By an hour before sunset you must have these sorted outinto four heaps, and if a single grain is found to be in a wrong heapyou have no further chance of marrying my daughter. I shall lock thedoor, so that no one can get in to assist you, and I shall return at theappointed time to see how you have succeeded.'The king walked off, and Jesper looked in despair at the task beforehim. Then he sat down and tried what he could do at it, but it was soonvery clear that single handed he could never hope to accomplish itin the time. Assistance was out of the question unless, he suddenlythought unless the King of the Ants could help. On him he began tocall, and before many minutes had passed that royal personage made hisappearance. Jesper explained the trouble he was in.'Is that all?' said the ant. 'we shall soon put that to rights.' He gavethe royal signal, and in a minute or two a stream of ants came pouringinto the barn, who under the king's orders set to work to separate thegrain into the proper heaps.Jesper watched them for a while, but through the continual movementof the little creatures, and his not having slept during the previousnight, he soon fell sound asleep. When he woke again, the king had justcome into the barn, and was amazed to find that not only was the taskaccomplished, but that Jesper had found time to take a nap as well.'Wonderful,' said he. 'I couldn't have believed it possible. However,the hardest is yet to come, as you will see to morrow.'Jesper thought so too when the next day's task was set before him. Theking's gamekeepers had caught a hundred live hares, which were to be letloose in a large meadow, and there Jesper must herd them all day, andbring them safely home in the evening: if even one were missing, hemust give up all thought of marrying the princess. Before he had quitegrasped the fact that this was an impossible task, the keepers hadopened the sacks in which the hares were brought to the field, and, witha whisk of the short tail and a flap of the long ears, each one of thehundred flew in a different direction.'Now,' said the king, 'as he walked away, 'let's see what yourcleverness can do here.'Jesper stared round him in bewilderment, and having nothing better to dowith his hands, thrust them into his pockets, as he was in the habit ofdoing. Here he found something which turned out to be the whistle givento him by the old woman. He remembered what she had said about thevirtues of the whistle, but was rather doubtful whether its powerswould extend to a hundred hares, each of which had gone in a differentdirection and might be several miles distant by this time. However, heblew the whistle, and in a few minutes the hares came bounding throughthe hedge on all the four sides of the field, and before long were allsitting round him in a circle. After that, Jesper allowed them to runabout as they pleased, so long as they stayed in the field.The king had told one of the keepers to hang about for a little and seewhat became of Jesper, not doubting, however, that as soon as he saw thecoast clear he would use his legs to the best advantage, and nevershow face at the palace again. It was therefore with great surprise andannoyance that he now learned of the mysterious return of the hares andthe likelihood of Jesper carrying out his task with success.'One of them must be got out of his hands by hook or crook,' said he.'I'll go and see the queen about it. she's good at devising plans.'A little later, a girl in a shabby dress came into the field and walkedup to Jesper.'Do give me one of those hares,' she said. 'we have just got visitorswho are going to stay to dinner, and there's nothing we can give them toeat.''I can't,' said Jesper. 'For one thing, they're not mine. for another, agreat deal depends on my having them all here in the evening.'But the girl (and she was a very pretty girl, though so shabbilydressed) begged so hard for one of them that at last he said:'Very well. give me a kiss and you shall have one of them.'He could see that she didn't quite care for this, but she consented tothe bargain, and gave him the kiss, and went away with a hare in herapron. Scarcely had she got outside the field, however, when Jesper blewhis whistle, and immediately the hare wriggled out of its prison like aneel, and went back to its master at the top of its speed.Not long after this the hare herd had another visit. This time it was astout old woman in the dress of a peasant, who also was after a hare toprovide a dinner for unexpected visitors. Jesper again refused, but theold lady was so pressing, and would take no refusal, that at last hesaid:'Very well, you shall have a hare, and pay nothing for it either, if youwill only walk round me on tiptoe, look up to the sky, and cackle like ahen.''Fie,' said she. 'what a ridiculous thing to ask anyone to do. justthink what the neighbours would say if they saw me. They would think Ihad taken leave of my senses.''Just as you like,' said Jesper. 'you know best whether you want thehare or not.'There was no help for it, and a pretty figure the old lady made incarrying out her task. the cackling wasn't very well done, but Jespersaid it would do, and gave her the hare. As soon as she had left thefield, the whistle was sounded again, and back came long legs and earsat a marvellous speed.The next to appear on the same errand was a fat old fellow in the dressof a groom: it was the royal livery he wore, and he plainly thought agood deal of himself.'Young man,' said he, 'I want one of those hares. name your price, but IMUST have one of them.''All right,' said Jesper. 'you can have one at an easy rate. Just standon your head, whack your heels together, and cry "Hurrah," and the hareis yours.''Eh, what!' said the old fellow. 'ME stand on my head, what an idea!''Oh, very well,' said Jesper, 'you needn't unless you like, you know.but then you won't get the hare.'It went very much against the grain, one could see, but after someefforts the old fellow had his head on the grass and his heels in theair. the whacking and the 'Hurrah' were rather feeble, but Jesper wasnot very exacting, and the hare was handed over. Of course, it wasn'tlong in coming back again, like the others.Evening came, and home came Jesper with the hundred hares behind him.Great was the wonder over all the palace, and the king and queen seemedvery much put out, but it was noticed that the princess actually smiledto Jesper.'Well, well,' said the king. 'you have done that very well indeed.If you are as successful with a little task which I shall give youto morrow we shall consider the matter settled, and you shall marry theprincess.'Next day it was announced that the task would be performed in the greathall of the palace, and everyone was invited to come and witness it. Theking and queen sat on their thrones, with the princess beside them, andthe lords and ladies were all round the hall. At a sign from the king,two servants carried in a large empty tub, which they set down in theopen space before the throne, and Jesper was told to stand beside it.'Now,' said the king, 'you must tell us as many undoubted truths as willfill that tub, or you can't have the princess.''But how are we to know when the tub is full?' said Jesper.'Don't you trouble about that,' said the king. 'that's my part of thebusiness.'This seemed to everybody present rather unfair, but no one liked to bethe first to say so, and Jesper had to put the best face he could on thematter, and begin his story.'Yesterday,' he said, 'when I was herding the hares, there came to me agirl, in a shabby dress, and begged me to give her one of them. She gotthe hare, but she had to give me a kiss for it. AND THAT GIRL WAS THEPRINCESS. Isn't that true?' said he, looking at her.The princess blushed and looked very uncomfortable, but had to admitthat it was true.'That hasn't filled much of the tub,' said the king. 'Go on again.''After that,' said Jesper, 'a stout old woman, in a peasant's dress,came and begged for a hare. Before she got it, she had to walk round meon tiptoe, turn up her eyes, and cackle like a hen. AND THAT OLD WOMANWAS THE QUEEN. Isn't that true, now?'The queen turned very red and hot, but couldn't deny it.'H m,' said the king. 'that is something, but the tub isn't full yet.'To the queen he whispered, 'I didn't think you would be such a fool.''What did YOU do?' she whispered in return.'Do you suppose I would do anything for HIM?' said the king, and thenhurriedly ordered Jesper to go on.'In the next place,' said Jesper, 'there came a fat old fellow on thesame errand. He was very proud and dignified, but in order to get thehare he actually stood on his head, whacked his heels together, andcried "Hurrah". and that old fellow was the  ''Stop, stop,' shouted the king. 'you needn't say another word. the tubis full.' Then all the court applauded, and the king and queen acceptedJesper as their son in law, and the princess was very well pleased, forby this time she had quite fallen in love with him, because he was sohandsome and so clever. When the old king got time to think over it, hewas quite convinced that his kingdom would be safe in Jesper's hands ifhe looked after the people as well as he herded the hares.(Scandinavian.)