Once upon a time there was an old man, and an old woman, and a littleboy. One morning the old woman made a Johnny Cake and put it in the ovento bake."You watch the Johnny Cake while your father and I go out to work inthe garden."So the old man and the old woman went out and began to hoe potatoes andleft the little boy to tend the oven. But he didn't watch it all the time,and all of a sudden he heard a noise, and he looked up and the oven doorpopped open, and out of the oven jumped Johnny Cake and went rolling alongend over end towards the open door of the house.The little boy ran to shut the door, but Johnny Cake was too quick forhim and rolled through the door, down the steps, and out into the roadlong before the little boy could catch him. The little boy ran after himas fast as he could lip it, crying out to his father and mother, who heardthe uproar and threw down their hoes and gave chase too. But Johnny Cakeoutran all three a long way, and was soon out of sight, while they had tosit down, all out of breath, on a bank to rest.On went Johnny Cake, and by and by he came to two well diggers, wholooked up from their work and called out, "Where are you going,Johnny Cake?"He said, "I have outrun an old man and an old woman and a little boy,and I can outrun you too o o!""Ye can, can ye?" We'll see about that!" said they, and they threw downtheir picks and ran after him, but couldn't catch up with him, and soonthey had to sit down by the roadside to rest.On ran Johnny Cake, and by and by he came to two ditch diggers who weredigging a ditch. "Where ye going, Johnny Cake?" said they.He said, "I've outrun an old man and an old woman and a little boy andtwo well diggers, and I can outrun you too o o!""Ye can, can ye? We'll see about that!" said they, and they threw downtheir spades and ran after him too. But Johnny Cake soon outstripped themalso, and seeing they could never catch him, they gave up the chase andsat down to rest.On went Johnny Cake, and by and by he came to a bear. The bear said,"Where are ye going, Johnny Cake?"He said, "I've outrun an old man and an old woman and a little boy andtwo well diggers and two ditch diggers, and I can outrun you too o o!""Ye can, can ye?" growled the bear. "We'll see about that!" and trottedas fast as his legs could carry him after Johnny Cake, who never stoppedto look behind him. Before long the bear was left so far behind that hesaw he might as well give up the hunt first as last, so he stretchedhimself out by the roadside to rest.On went Johnny Cake, and by and by he came to a wolf. The wolf said,"Where ye going, Johnny Cake?"He said, "I've outrun an old man and an old woman and a little boy andtwo well diggers and two ditch diggers and a bear, an I can outrun youtoo o o!""Ye can, can ye?" snarled the wolf. "We'll see about that!" And he setinto a gallop after Johnny Cake, who went on and on so fast that the wolftoo saw there was no hope of overtaking him, and he too lay down torest.On went Johnny Cake, and by and by he came to a fox that lay quietly ina corner of the fence. The fox called out in a sharp voice, but withoutgetting up, "Where ye going, Johnny Cake?"He said, "I've outrun an old man and an old woman and a little boy andtwo well diggers and two ditch diggers, a bear, and a wolf, and I canoutrun you too o o!"The fox said, "I can't quite hear you, Johnny Cake. Won't you come alittle closer?" turning his head a little to one side.Johnny Cake stopped his race for the first time, and went a littlecloser, and called out in a very loud voice, "I've outrun an old manand an old woman and a little boy and two well diggers and twoditch diggers and a bear and a wolf, and I can outrun you too o o!""Can't quite hear you. Won't you come a little closer?"Johnny Cake came up close, and leaning towards the fox screamed out,"I'VE OUTRUN AN OLD MAN AND AN OLD WOMAN AND A LITTLE BOY AND TWOWELL DIGGERS AND TWO DITCH DIGGERS AND A BEAR AND A WOLF, AND I CAN OUTRUNYOU TOO O O!""You can, can you?" yelped the fox, and he snapped up the Johnny Cakein his sharp teeth in the twinkling of an eye.