In ages vastly remote there lived in a distant land a king of such prowessand renown, that his name was known throughout the four regions of thecompass. His name was Ludovico. His power was increased twofold by hisattachment to an aged magician, to whom he was tied by strong bonds offriendship.Ludovico had an extremely lovely daughter by the name of Clotilde. Eversince his arrival at the palace the magician had been passionately in lovewith her. but his extreme old age and his somewhat haughty bearing wereobstacles in his path to success. Whenever he made love to her, she turnedaside, and listened instead to the thrilling tales told by some wanderingminstrel.The magician finally succumbed to the infirmities of old age, his lifemade more burdensome by his repeated disappointments. He left to the kingthree enchanted winged horses. to the princess, two magic necklaces ofexactly the same appearance, of inimitable workmanship and of pricelessworth. Nor did the magician fail to wreak vengeance on the cause of hisdeath. Before he expired, he locked Clotilde and the three magic horses ina high tower inaccessible to any human being. She was to remain in thisenchanted prison until some man succeeded in setting her free.Naturally, King Ludovico wanted to see his daughter before the hour of hisdeath, which was fast approaching. He offered large sums of money,together with his crown and Clotilde's hand, to anybody who could set herfree. Hundreds of princes tried, but in vain. The stone walls of the towerwere of such a height, that very few birds, even, could fly over them. Buta deliverer now rose from obscurity and came into prominence. This man wasan uneducated but persevering peasant named Juan. He possessed a gracefulform, herculean frame, good heart, and unrivalled ingenuity. His twolearned older brothers tried to scale the walls of the tower, but fared nobetter than the others.At last Juan's turn came. His parents and his older brothers expostulatedwith him not to go, for what could a man unskilled in the fine arts do?But Juan, in the hope of setting the princess free, paid no attention totheir advice. He took as many of the biggest nails as he could find, avery long rope, and a strong hammer. As he lived in a town several milesdistant from the capital, he had to make the trip on horseback.One day Juan set out with all his equipment. On the way he met hisdisappointed second brother returning after a vain attempt. The olderbrother tried in every way he could to divert Juan from his purpose. Now,Juan's parents, actuated partly by a sense of shame if he should fail, andpartly by a deep seated hatred, had poisoned his food without hisknowledge. When he felt hungry, he suspected them of some evil intention:so before eating he gave his horse some of his provisions. The poorcreature died on the road amidst terrible sufferings, and Juan was obligedto finish the journey on foot.When he arrived at the foot of the tower, he drove a nail into the wall.Then he tied one end of his rope to this spike. In this way he succeededin making a complete ladder of nails and rope to the top of the tower. Helooked for Clotilde, who met him with her eyes flooded with tears. As areward for his great services to her, she gave him one of the magicnecklaces. While they were whispering words of love in each other's ears,they heard a deafening noise at the bottom of the tower."Rush for safety to your ladder!" cried Clotilde. "One of the fiendishfriends of the magician is going to kill you."But, alas! some wanton hand had pulled out the nails. and this person wasnone other then Juan's second brother. "I am a lost man," said Juan."Mount one of the winged horses in the chamber adjoining mine," saidClotilde.So Juan got on one of the animals without knowing where to go. The horseflew from the tower with such velocity, that Juan had to close his eyes.His breath was almost taken away. In a few seconds, however, he was landedin a country entirely strange to his eyes.After long years of struggle with poverty and starvation, Juan was at lastable to make his way back to his native country. He went to live in a townjust outside the walls of the capital. A rich old man named Telesforohired him to work on his farm. Juan's excellent service and irreproachableconduct won the good will of his master, who adopted him as his son.At about this time King Ludovico gave out proclamations stating that anyone who could exactly match his daughter's necklace should be hisson in law. Thousands tried, but they tried in vain. Even the mostdexterous and experienced smiths were baffled in their attempts to producean exact counterfeit. When word of the royal proclamations was brought toJuan, he decided to try.One day he pretended to be sick, and he asked Telesforo to go to thepalace to get Clotilde's necklace. The old man, who was all ready to servehis adopted son, went that very afternoon and borrowed the necklace, sothat he might try to copy it. When he returned with the magic article,Juan jumped from his bed and kissed his father. After supper Juan went tohis room and locked himself in. Then he took from his pocket the necklacewhich Clotilde had given him in the tower, and compared it carefully withthe borrowed one. When he saw that they did not differ in any respect, hetook a piece of iron and hammered it until midnight.Early the next morning Juan wrapped the two magic necklaces in a silkhandkerchief, and told the old man to take them to the king."By the aid of the Lord!" exclaimed Clotilde when her father the kingunwrapped the necklaces, "my lover is here again. This necklace," shesaid, touching the one she had given Juan, "is not a counterfeit: for itis written in the magician's book of black art that no human being shallbe able to imitate either of the magic necklaces.   Where is the owner ofthis necklace, old man?" she said, turning to Telesforo."He is at home," said Telesforo with a bow."Go and bring him to the palace," said Clotilde.Within a quarter of an hour Juan arrived. After paying due respect to theking, Juan embraced Clotilde affectionately. They were married in theafternoon, and the festivities continued for nine days and nine nights.Juan was made crown prince, and on the death of King Ludovico he succeededto the throne. King Juan and Queen Clotilde lived to extreme old age inpeace and perfect happiness.