Once upon a time there was a couple which was at first childless. Thefather was very anxious to have a son to inherit his property, so he wentto the church daily, and prayed God to give him a child, but in vain.One day, in his great disappointment, the man exclaimed withoutthinking, "O great God! Let me have a son, even if it is in the form of amonkey!" And only a few days later his wife gave birth to a monkey.The father was so much mortified that he wanted to kill his son. butfinally his better reason prevailed, and he spared the child. He said tohimself, "It is my fault, I know. but I uttered that invocation withoutthinking."So instead of putting the monkey to death, the couple just hid it fromvisitors. and whenever anyone asked for the child, they merely answered,"Oh, he died long ago."The time came when the monkey grew to be old enough to marry. He wentto his father, and said, "Give me your blessing, father! for I am goingaway to look for a wife."The father was only too glad to be freed from this obnoxious son, so heimmediately gave him his blessing. Before letting him go, however, thefather said to the monkey, "You must never come back again to our house.""Very well, I will not," said the monkey.The monkey then left his father's house, and went to find his fortune.One night he dreamed that there was a castle in the midst of the sea, andthat in this castle dwelt a princess of unspeakable beauty. The princesshad been put there so that no one might discover her existence. Themonkey, who had been baptized two days after his birth and was named Juan,immediately repaired to the palace of the king. There he posted a letterwhich read as follows: "I, Juan, know that your majesty has a daughter."Naturally the king was very angry to have his secret discovered. Heimmediately sent soldiers to look for Juan. Juan was soon found, andbrought to the palace. The king said to him, "How do you know that I havea daughter? If you can bring her here, I will give her to you for a wife.If not, however, your head shall be cut off from your body.""O your majesty!" said Juan, "I am sure that I can find her and bringher here. I am willing to lose my head if within three days I fail tofulfil my promise." After he had said this, Juan withdrew, and sadly wentout to look for the hidden princess.As he was walking along the road, he heard the cry of a bird. He lookedup, and saw a bird caught between two boughs so that it could not escape.The bird said to him, "O monkey! if you will but release me, I will giveyou all I have.""Oh, no!" said the monkey. "I am very hungry, and would much rather eatyou.""If you will but spare my life," said the bird, "I will give youanything you want.""On one condition only will I set you free," said the monkey. "You mustprocure for me the ring of the princess who lives in the midst of thesea.""Oh, that's an easy thing to do," said the bird. So the monkey climbedthe tree and set the bird free.The bird immediately flew to the island in the sea, where fortunatelyit found the princess refreshing herself in her garden. The princess wasso charmed with the song of the bird that she looked up and said, "Olittle bird! if you will only promise to live with me, I will give youanything you want.""All right, said the bird. "Give me your ring, and I will forever livewith you."The princess held up the ring. and the bird suddenly snatched it andflew away with it. It gave the ring to the monkey, who was, of course,delighted to get it.Now the monkey jogged along the road until finally he saw threewitches. He approached them and said to them, "You are the very beings forwhom I have spent the whole day looking. God has sent me here from heavento punish you for your evil doings toward innocent persons. So I must eatyou up."Now, witches are said to be afraid of ill looking persons, althoughthey themselves are the ugliest beings in all the world. So these threewere terribly frightened by the monkey's threat, and said, "O sir! spareour lives, and we will do anything for you!""Very well, I will spare you if you can execute my order. From thisshore you must build a bridge which leads to the middle of the sea, wherethe castle of the princess is situated.""That shall be speedily done," replied the witches. and they at oncegathered leaves, which they put on their backs. Then they plunged into thewater. Immediately after them a bridge was built. Thus the monkey was nowable to go to the castle. Here he found the princess. She was very muchsurprised to see this evil looking animal before her. but she was muchmore frightened when the monkey showed her the ring which the bird hadgiven him, and claimed her for his wife."It is the will of God that you should go with me," said the monkey,after the princess had shown great repugnance towards him. "You eitherhave to go with me or perish."Thinking it was useless to attempt to resist such a mighty foe, theprincess finally yielded.The monkey led her to the king's palace and presented her before herparents. but no sooner had the king and queen seen their daughter in thepower of the beast, than they swooned. When they had recovered, they saidsimultaneously, "Go away at once, and never come back her again, you girlof infamous taste! Who are you? You are not the princess we left in thecastle. You are of villain's blood, and the very air which you exhale doessuffocate us. So with no more ado depart at once!"The princess implored her father to have pity, saying that it was thewill of God that she should be the monkey's wife. "Perhaps I have beenenchanted by him, for I am powerless to oppose him."But all her remonstrance was in vain. the king shut his ears againstany deceitful or flattering words that might fall from the lips of hisfaithless and disobedient daughter. Seeing that the king was obstinate,the couple turned their backs on the palace and decided to find a morehospitable home. So the monkey now took his wife to a neighboringmountain, and here they settled.One day the monkey noticed that the princess was very sad and pale. Hesaid to her, "Why are you so sad and unhappy, my darling? What is thematter?""Nothing. I am just sorry to have only a monkey for my husband. Ibecome sad when I think of my past happiness.""I am not a monkey, my dear. I am a real man, born of human parents.Didn't you know that I was baptized by the priest, and that my name isJuan?"As the princess would not believe him, the monkey went to a neighboringhut and there cast off his disguise ( balit cayu ). He at oncereturned to the princess. She was amazed to see a sparkling youth of notmore than twenty years of age   nay, a prince   kneeling before her. "Ican no longer keep you in ignorance," he said. "I am your husband, Juan.""Oh, no! I cannot believe you. Don't try to deceive me! My husband is amonkey. But, with all his defects, I still cling to him and love him.Please go away at once, lest my husband find you here! He will be jealous,and my kill us both.""Oh, no! my darling, I am your husband, Juan. I only disguised myselfas a monkey."But still the princess would not believe him. At last she said to him,"If you are my real husband, you must give me a proof of the fact." SoJuan (we shall hereafter call him by this name) took her to the placewhere he had cast off his monkey skin.The princess was now convinced, and said to herself, "After all, I wasnot wrong in the belief I have entertained from the beginning, that it wasthe will of God that I should marry this monkey, this man."Juan and the princess now agreed to go back to the palace and tell thestory. So they went. As soon as the king and queen saw the couple, theywere very much surprised. But to remove their doubt, Juan immediatelyrelated to the king all that had happened. Thus the king and queen werefinally reconciled to the at first hated couple. Juan and his wifesucceeded to the throne on the death of the king, and lived peacefully andhappily during their reign.The story is now ended. Thus we see that God compensated the father andmother of Juan for their religious zeal by giving them a son, but punishedthem for not being content with what he gave them by taking the son awayfrom them again, for Juan never recognized his parents.