A king had two sons. of these, one was cunning and unjust, the other, justand gentle.After the death of the father the elder son said to the younger, "Depart.I will not live with you any longer. Here are three hundred ducats and ahorse: this is your portion of our father's property. Take it, for I oweyou nothing more than this."The younger son took the money and the horse which were offered him, andsaid, "Thank God! See only how much of the kingdom has fallen to me!"Some time afterwards the two brothers, both of whom were riding, met bychance in a road. The younger brother greeted the elder one, saying, "Godhelp thee, brother!"And the elder answered, "Why do you speak always about God? Nowadaysinjustice is better than justice."The younger brother, however, said to him, "I will wager with you thatinjustice is not, as you say, better than justice."So they betted one hundred golden zechins, and it was arranged that theyshould leave the decision to the first man they met in the road. Ridingtogether a little farther they met with Satan, who had disguised himselfas a monk, and they asked him to decide which was better, justice orinjustice?Satan answered, "Injustice!" And the good brother paid the bad one thehundred golden zechins which he had wagered.Then they betted for another hundred zechins, and again a third time for athird hundred, and each time Satan   who managed to disguise himself indifferent ways and meet them   decided that injustice was better thanjustice. Thus the younger brother lost all his money, and his horse intothe bargain.Then he said, "Thank God! I have no more money, but I have eyes, and Iwager my eyes that justice is better than injustice."Thereupon the unjust brother, without waiting for any one's decision, drewhis knife and cut both his brother's eyes out, saying, "Now you have noeyes, let justice help you."But the younger brother in his trouble only thanked God and said, "I havelost my eyes for the sake of God's justice, but I pray you, my brother,give me a little water in some vessel to wash my wounds and wet my mouth,and bring me away from this place to the pine tree just about the spring,before you leave me."The unjust brother did so, gave him water, and left him alone under thepine tree near the spring of water. There the unfortunate remained,sitting on the ground.Late, however, in the night, some fairies came to the spring to bathe, andone of them came to the spring to bathe, and one of them said to theothers, "Do you know, my sisters, that the king's daughter has got theleprosy? The king has summoned all the physicians, but no one can possiblyhelp her. But if the king only knew, he would take a little of this waterin which we are bathing, and wash his daughter therewith. and then in aday and a night she would recover completely from her leprosy. Just as anyone deaf, or dumb, or blind, could be cured by this same water."Then, as the cocks began to crow, the fairies hurried away. As soon asthey were gone, the unfortunate man felt his way slowly with hisoutstretched hands till he came to the spring of water. There he bathedhis eyes, and in an instant recovered his sight.After that he filled the vessel with water, and hurried away to the king,whose daughter was leprous, and said to the servants, "I am come to curethe king's daughter, if he will only let me try. I guarantee that she willbecome healthy in a day and night."When the king heard that, he ordered him to be led into the room where thegirl was, and made her immediately bathe in the water. After a day and anight the girl came out pure and healthy. Then the king was greatlypleased, and gave the young prince the half of his kingdom, and also hisdaughter for a wife, so that he became the king's son in law, and thefirst man after him in the kingdom.The tidings of this great event spread all over the world, and so came tothe ears of the unjust brother. He guessed directly that his blind brothermust have met with good fortune under the pine tree, so he went himself totry to find it also. He carried with him a vessel full of water, and thencarved out his own eyes with his knife.When it was dark the fairies came again, and, as they bathed, spoke aboutthe recovery of the king's daughter. "It cannot be otherwise," they said."someone must have been listening to our last conversation here. Perhapssomeone is listening now. Let us see."So they searched all around, and when they came to the pine tree theyfound there the unjust brother who had come to seek after good fortune,and who declared always that injustice was better than justice. Theyimmediately caught him, and tore him into four parts. And so, at the last,his wickedness did not help him, and he found to his cost that justice isbetter than injustice.