One day Juvadi went to gather twigs, and he found an oak branch with acorns on it. He picked it up and carefully carried it in his arms. As he approached town he straddled it like a horse and thus pulled it further along.The little princess was standing at one of the king's windows, and she began to laugh out loud.Juvadi saw her and said, "May you get pregnant by me!"She soon became pregnant, and nine months later gave birth to a girl. The king was so angry about this that he called together his council and said, "Advise me what I should do to the person who has brought this shame upon me. I cannot believe what people are saying."The councilors said, "Bring together all the men in the kingdom, and then we shall see whom the child calls Papa."So the king summoned all the men to his house. His barons, princes, knights, citizens, and peasants all came, but the child did not call any of them Papa. The only man left was Juvadi, who did not come. Then the king forced him to come, and the child had scarcely seen him when she called him Papa.Once again the king called together his council and asked, "What should the punishment be for those who caused this shame?"They answered, "Let us put them into a cask and roll it over a cliff."So they had a cask made and locked the princess, her daughter, and Juvadi inside, then rolled it to a cliff to push it over.As it rolled along, Juvadi said, "Let me out! Let me out! I'll give you figs and raisins."So saying, he threw handfuls of figs and raisins out of the cask. The cask stopped rolling at a level spot. Juvadi broke open the cask, and they all got out.A witch was in the vicinity, and she laughed so hard that a swelling on her neck disappeared. She was very happy about this, and she said to Juvadi, "What is your wish? I can do everything, and will do something good for you."Juvadi answered, "Make a house for me, for we have no place to live."The witch picked up a stick and made a circle with it, saying, "Here shall be a palace, with all the comforts of the world."Suddenly a beautiful palace was there, and Juvadi happily went inside with the princess and their daughter.The princess then said to Juvadi, "Now you have to have an enchantment that will drive out your stupidity."