There were once upon a time a man and a woman who agreed so well togetherthat a harsh word had never passed between them since the beginning oftheir married life. for whatever the husband did the wife thought rightand proper, and everything that she did the husband thought the best thatcould be done. They had not much to manage with, so they had to be verycareful, even with the crumbs. But no matter how black things looked, theywere always happy and contented.But envy seems to find her way into every corner, be it ever so humble,and if there is no one else who begrudges people living in peace, Old Nick(the devil) always tries to get his foot inside. So he lay in wait outsidetheir house, wondering how he should be able sow ever so little dissensionthere.He tried in one way, and he tried in another, and he tried in every way.but although he was always hovering about the house, they kept so welltogether that he could not find a single chink through which he could slipin, however small he made himself.But what Old Nick himself cannot accomplish, wicked women may manage. Inthe same neighborhood there lived one called Katie Grey who was one of theright sort. To her he went, and asked if she could set the old coupleagainst each other.That wouldn't be very difficult, she thought. and if only he would giveher a new jacket and petticoat with red and green and blue stripes shewould be sure to manage it so that Old Nick himself should not be able todo it better. Well, Old Nick agreed to that, and so they parted.Early next morning, as soon as the husband had set out for the forest,Katie Grey rushed off to see the wife."Good morning, and well met!" she said, making herself as pleasant aspossible."Good morning!" said the wife."You have a very good husband, you have, haven't you?" said Katie Grey."Yes, the Lord be praised!" said the wife. "When the first snow falls thisautumn it will be six and thirty years since we were married, and neverduring all these years has a single harsh word fallen from his lips."Katie Grey quite agreed with her, as you may guess. "Yes, he is no doubtone of the best men one can meet in a day's walk," she said. But I knowpeople who have got on just as well as you two, and yet trouble came inthe end.""Poor people!" said the wife. "But just as soon will the mouse lie downwith the cat, as such things will be heard about us," she said.Well, that might be. Katie Grey was not one to believe all that peoplesaid, but "better wise beforehand than hasty afterwards," and "those whoremedies know, can well kill illness, I trow." And as she knew of a remedyagainst such a misfortune, she thought she ought to mention it, for whenthey had lived together like a pair of turtledoves for six and thirtyyears it would be both "sin and shame" if they were now to begin to bickerand quarrel.The wife could not say anything to that."Well, you see," said Katie Grey, for now she thought she had got thebetter of the wife, "if you take a razor and draw it three times along astrop against the sun, and then cut off six hairs from your husband'sbeard just under his chin one night when he is asleep, and afterwards burnthem, he will never he angry with you."The wife said she did not think she would ever be in need of that remedy,but she thanked her for her good advice all the same.Katie Grey then set out for the forest, where the husband was making osierbands."Good morning, and well met!" she said."Good morning to you!" said the man."What a very kind and good wife you have got!" she said."That's true enough," said the man. "There isn't a better woman on thisside of the sun, nor has there ever been one either.""That may be," said Katie Grey, "but so was Eve also before the Evil Onegot the better of her.""Yes, that's true. but my wife, you see, is not one of that sort, for shenever puts her foot where such wickedness is going on," he said."Don't be so sure about that, for the Evil One can creep through the eyeof a needle," she said, "so that no one is secure against him. Not that Iwant make any mischief between people   no one can say that about me  but those who will run into danger had better be well looked after. 'Allis not gold that glitters,' and 'outside mild, inside wild,' often gotogether," she said."You talk according to the sense you have," said the man, who began tofeel angry. "My wife is no more likely to wish me evil than the sun toshine in the middle of the night   that I may tell you," he said."Thinking and believing do no harm to anybody," she said. "But I think youwill do a wise thing in not closing your eyes tonight when your wife comesand draws a razor across your throat. But not a word about this to anyone,do you hear?" she said, and off she went.One gets to hear a good deal before one has done with this world   butdid one ever hear the like of this? Could it be possible? The man felt asstrange in his head as if he had rolled down the church steeple. Butwhatever it was that ailed him, there he stood pondering and brooding.Pshaw! She was after all only a wicked woman who wanted to set themagainst each other. Yes, that was it. and he was very sorry he had notgiven her a good thrashing for her trouble.But although he worked away and toiled his best with his osiers, he couldnot get out of his head what Katie Grey had put into it. And when he camehome in the evening he was so depressed and silent that his wife had neverseen him in such a state before, so strange was he."Goodness knows, what can be the matter with my husband?" she thought. andthen she suddenly recollected what Katie Grey had told her."I may as well take three hairs from his beard," she thought, "for whenyou have had a happy home for six and thirty years, it isn't likely you'lllet it slip through your fingers all at once."But she did not dare to speak to her husband. she only asked him to lendher his razor.He let her have it, but he sighed and thought to himself, "I wonder if shewould do me any harm? I wonder it she really could? Oh, no! That's quiteimpossible."But he put his axe close to his bed, and then they both lay down to rest.Later on in the night she asked, "Are you asleep, husband?"This startled the man, but he did not say a word, and the wife stole outof bed and lighted a candle.The man's heart began to beat violently.The wife then took the razor and drew it three times along the leatherbelt of her husband's apron, and went towards the bed.The blood rushed to the man's head, so that he almost lost his senses, buthe lay as quiet as a stone, and only moved his hand towards the axe.The wife then came close to the bed to cut the three hairs from his beard.But as she leaned forward, the man suddenly jumped up and seized his axe,with which he struck his wife, who fell down dead on the floor.He felt he had done a very wicked deed, but he had not thought that thingswould come to this pass.He became much distressed   for what was he going to do?It was perhaps best he followed his wife, and so he took a knife and cuthis throat.Just then he heard someone laughing outside the window, and he looked inthat direction. There he saw Katie Grey, and then he died.Katie Grey was now quite proud that she had been able to do more than theEvil One himself.Old Nick was not far off either. He came with a petticoat and a jackethanging on a long, long pole, which he held out towards her."Come nearer, so that I may shake hands with you and thank you," she said."No, keep away from me!" he cried, and kept her back with his pole, whichhe poked at her."You call me the Wicked One and the Evil One and such things, but I am notas wicked as you are, at any rate. Look here," he said. "take what belongsto you, so that I can have done with you."And with this he threw the pole and the clothes at her, and took to hisheels as fast as ever he could, so afraid was he of her.Katie Grey stood wondering and staring after him. Just then two whitepigeons came flying out of the cottage, and flew right up into the cloudsabove. They were the man and his wife. for though Old Nick had wished themevil, the Lord would take care of them.But what would become of Katie Grey, seeing that the Evil One himself didnot dare to go near her? It is not easy to say.