In olden times in some distant country the young folk had come togetherand decided to get rid of the old men. They did not want their wisdom andtheir advice, for they were just as clever. They had lived their lives,and that was an end of it.Over that country there ruled a young king who gladly accepted thedecision of the young people and gave strict orders that all the old menshould be killed. The orders were carried out with the utmost severity.But there lived among these people a young man who had not the heart tokill his old father. Frightened at the consequences of disobeying theking's orders, he took his old father and hid him in the cellar under thehouse. There he fed him and looked after him, carefully visiting him onlyby night.For a while things went well. The country was prosperous, the earthyielded its produce, vineyards flourished, and the orchards were ladenwith fruit. But things did not remain in that state of prosperity. Asummer came. There was such drought that for months not a drop of rainfell. The crops were burnt off the face of the earth. The trees withered,and there was dearth and famine in the land. This was followed by a severewinter so cold as he people had never experienced in their life. Heavysnow fell and covered the fields. No food was left, nay not even seed forsowing the field in the springtime. Starvation had set in, and the peopledid not know what to do, for they saw death before their eyes, forthemselves and for their starved cattle.One night, when the son came as usual to his father, he could not bringmore than a morsel of food. His father asked him what was the matter andwhy he looked so sad. The son told him what had happened. They had no seedto sow and did not know where to get any. There was nothing for them butrank starvation.They were all at their wits' end and had nowhere to turn for counsel oradvice how to save themselves, and the father said, "My son, fear not.Take a plow and plow up the road in front of the house and the adjoiningroad, and do not reply to any questions."The son did as his father had bidden. The earth which had become moistand soft through the melting snow was easily plowed up, when lo! to theirgreat amazement, when the time came all kinds of grains seemed to sproutand to grow up from the ground which had been tilled. Maize and corn andwheat were all growing up, and   as the weather was favorable   yieldeda very good crop.His neighbors were greatly astonished at what they saw, and went andtold the king what had happened.The king called the young man and said to him, "This doing is not ofyour own wisdom. No doubt your father has told you, whom you have keptalive. Speak the truth and I will spare your life."The young man owned that his father had advised him to plow up thethoroughfares and roads close to their house. The young king then sent forthe old man and asked him what was the meaning of his advice.The old man replied, "All throughout the year carts laden with allmanner of seeds and corn are passing to and fro. Some of the corn falls tothe ground, and not a few of the seeds fall on the ground and are troddeninto the earth by the passers by. Left in that state they usually rot, butif the ground is plowed up, and is moist and favorable for the growth,no one passing over that part of the ground, some of the corn has a chanceof growing. It is upon that chance that I relied, and thus it has come topass that we have now a rich crop, not only for our necessities, but alsoto provide you all with enough necessary seed for your own fields in thefuture."When the king and the young people heard what the old man had to telland saw his deep wisdom, they recognized their folly, they rescinded thatresolution, and decided henceforth to allow the old people to live inpeace and honor.And henceforth the old men are allowed to live to the end of theirdays.