Sewingshields lies between the Roman Wall and the military road, near thetwenty eighth milestone from Newcastle, and at the western extremity ofWarden Parish. Of Sewingshields Castle, Mr. Hodgson informs us that inhis time a square, low, lumpy mass of ruins, overgrown with nettles, stillremained. "Its site is on the end of a dry ridge and overlooked from thesouth by the basaltic cliffs, along the brow of which the Roman Wall wasbuilt. There are also some traces of trenches near it." (Hodgson'sHistory of Northumberland, part ii, vol. iii. (Note in original))This is the castle referred to by Sir Walter Scott in the sixth canto ofHarold the Dauntless as the "castle of the seven shields." Inreference to its present condition Dr. Bruce remarks:... No towers are seenOn the wild heath, but those that Fancy builds.And save a fosse that tracks the moor with green,Is nought remains to tell of what may there have been.( Wallet Book of the Roman Wall, p. 109. (Note in original. This book is Denham's source of the legend that follows.))It stood in the center of the only patch of ground in "the moss," which isnow subjected to the plow. The walls have been uprooted and the vaultsremoved, but the following tradition relating to it will not readilyperish:Immemorial tradition has asserted that King Arthur, his queen Guinevere,his court of lords and ladies, and his hounds, were enchanted in some caveof the crags, or in a hall below the Castle of Sewingshields, and wouldcontinue entranced there till someone should first blow a bugle horn thatlay on a table near the entrance of the hall, and then, with "the sword ofthe stone," cut a garter also placed there beside it. But none had everheard where the entrance to this enchanted hall was till the farmer atSewingshields, about fifty years since, was sitting knitting on the ruinsof the castle and his clew fell and ran downwards through a rush of briarsand nettles, as he supposed, into a deep subterranean passage.Full in the faith that the entrance into King Arthur's hall was now discovered, hecleared the briary portal of its weeds and rubbish, and, entering avaulted passage, followed, in his darkling way, the thread of his clew.The floor was infested with toads and lizards. and the dark wings of bats,disturbed by his unhallowed intrusion, flitted fearfully around him. Atlength his sinking courage was strengthened by a dim, distant light, whichas he advanced grew gradually brighter, till at once he entered a vast andvaulted hall, in the center of which a fire without fuel, from a broadcrevice in the floor, blazed with a high and lambent flame that showed allthe carved walls and fretted roof, and the monarch and his queen and courtreposing around in a theater of thrones and costly couches.On the floor, beyond the fire, lay the faithful and deep toned pack of thirty couple of hounds. and on a table before it the spell dispelling horn, sword and garter. The shepherd reverently but firmly grasped the sword, and as he drew it leisurely from its rusty scabbard the eyes of the monarch, and his courtiers began to open, and they rose till they sat upright. He cut the garter. and as the sword was being slowly sheathed the spell assumed its ancient power, and they all gradually sank to rest. but not before the monarch had lifted up his eyes and hands and exclaimed:O woe betide that evil dayOn which the witless wight was born,Who drew the sword   the garter cut,But never blew the bugle horn.Of this favorite tradition the most remarkable variation is respecting theplace where the farmer descended. Some say that after the king'sdenunciation, terror brought on a loss of memory, and he was unable togive any correct account of his adventure or the place where it occurred.But all agree that Mrs. Spearman, the wife of another and more recentoccupier of the estate, had a dream in which she saw a rich hoard oftreasure among the ruins of the castle, and that for many days togethershe stood over workmen employed in searching for it, but without success.