More than two thousand years ago there lived a king in the land ofMacedon who was a great conqueror, and when his son, Alexander, wasborn, the soothsayers and the priestesses of the temples predictedthat he would be a greater warrior than his father. Alexander was awonderful boy, and his father, King Philip, was very proud of him whenhe tamed a spirited horse which nobody else could manage. The wisestphilosophers of the day were Alexander's teachers, and when he wasonly sixteen years of age, Philip left him in charge of the countrywhen he went to subdue Byzantium. Alexander was only twenty when heascended the throne, but before then he had suppressed a rebellion andhad proved himself possessed of exceptional daring and courage."I shall conquer the whole world," he said, and although he onlyreigned thirteen years and died at the age of thirty three, heaccomplished his ambition. All the countries which were then known hadto acknowledge his supremacy.King Alexander was a drunkard and very cruel, but he treated the Jewskindly. When they heard he had been victorious over Darius, king ofPersia, who was their ruler, and that he was marching on Jerusalem,they became seriously alarmed. Jadua, the high priest, however,counseled the people to welcome Alexander with great ceremony.All the priests and the Levites donned their most gorgeous robes, thepopulace put on their holiday garb, and the streets of the city weregaily decorated with many colored banners and garlands of flowers. Thenight before Alexander arrived at the head of his army, a longprocession was formed of the priests, the Levites, and the elders ofthe city, each carrying a lighted torch. At the gates of the city theyawaited the approach of the mighty warrior.In the early morning, before the sun had risen, Alexander made hisappearance and was astonished at the magnificent spectacle which methis gaze. At the head of the procession stood the high priest in hisshining white robes, with the jewels of the ephod glittering on hisbreast. To the surprise of his generals, Alexander descended from hishorse and bowed low before the high priest."Like unto an angel dost thou appear to me," he said."Let thy coming bring peace," replied Jadua.Parmenio, the chief of Alexander's generals, had promised the soldiersrich store of plunder in Jerusalem, and he approached the king andsaid:"Wherefore do you honor this priest of the Jews above all men?""I will tell thee," answered Alexander. "In dreams have I often seenthis dignified priest. Ever he bade me be of good courage and alwaysdid he predict victory for me. Shall I not then pay homage to myguardian angel?"Turning to the priest, he said, "Lead me to your Temple that I mayoffer up thanksgiving to the God of my guardian angel."It was now daylight, and the priests walked in procession before KingAlexander past cheering multitudes of people. At the Temple the kingremoved his sandals, but the priests gave him a pair of jeweledslippers, fearing that he might slip on the pavement. The king waspleased with all that he saw and desired that a statue of himself, ora portrait, should be placed in the holy building."That may not be," replied the high priest, "but in honor of thy visitall the boys born in Jerusalem this year shall be named Alexander.""It is well," said the king, much pleased. "ask of me what you will,and if it be in my power I shall grant it.""Mighty monarch," said Jadua, "we desire naught but to be permitted toserve our God according to our laws. Permit us to practice ourreligious observances free and unhindered. Grant also this privilegeto the Jews who dwell in all thy dominions, and we shall ever pray forthy long life and triumph.""It is but little that ye ask," replied the king, "and that little iseasily granted."The people cheered loudly when they heard the good news, and many Jewsenrolled themselves in the army.Alexander stayed some time in Jerusalem, and messengers arrived fromCanaan to ask him to compel the Jews to restore them their land."It is written in the Books of Moses," they said, "that Canaan and itsboundaries belong to the Canaanites."Gebiah, a hunchback, undertook to answer."It is also written in the Books of Moses," he said, "'Cursed beCanaan. a servant shall he be unto his brethren.' The property of aslave belongs to his master, therefore Canaan is ours."Alexander gave the envoys of Canaan three days in which to reply tothis, but they fled from Jerusalem.Messengers from Egypt came next, asking for the return of the gold andsilver taken by the Israelites from the land of Pharaoh."What says Gebiah to this?" asked Alexander."We shall return the gold and silver," answered the hunchback, "whenwe have been paid for the many, many years of labor of our ancestorsin Egypt.""Truly a wise answer," said Alexander, and he gave the Egyptians threedays to consider it. But they also fled.When Alexander left Jerusalem he sought the advice of the wise men ofIsrael."I desire," he said, "to conquer the land beyond the Mountains ofDarkness in Africa. it is also my wish to fly above the clouds andbehold the heavens, and also to descend into the depths of the sea andgaze with mine own eyes on the monsters of the deep."How to accomplish these things he was instructed by the wise men, butthey warned him never to enter Babylon."For shouldst thou ever enter the city of Babylon," they said, "thouwilt assuredly die."King Alexander thanked them for the advice and the warning, and setforth on his adventures.After many days King Alexander came to the Mountains of Darkness.Acting on the advice of the wise men, he had provided himself withasses from the land of Libya, for they have the power of seeing in thedark, and also with a cord of great length. Mounted on the asses, heand his men plunged into the realms of darkness, unwinding the cord asthey went, so that they might find their way back with it.Around them was blackest darkness and a silence that inspired the menwith awe. The asses, however, picked their way through the tall treesthat grew so high and so thick that not the least ray of light couldpenetrate. How many days they traveled thus they knew not, for dayand night were alike. The men slept when they were tired, ate whenthey were hungry and trusted to the asses and the cord.At last when they emerged into the light they were almost blinded bythe sun, and it was some time before they could see properly. Then, totheir great astonishment, they found that there were no men in theland, only women, tall and finely proportioned, clothed in skins andarmed with bows and arrows."Who are ye?" asked Alexander."We are the Amazons, women who are skilled in war and in the art ofhunting," they answered."Lead me to your queen," commanded Alexander, "and bid her surrender,for I am Alexander, the Great, of Macedon, and conqueror of the world.I fight not by night, for I scorn to steal victories in the dark, andmy men are armed with magic spears of gold and silver and aretherefore invincible."The queen of the Amazons appeared before him, a beautiful woman, withlong raven hair."Greeting to thee, mighty warrior," she said. "Hast thou come to slaywomen?""Perchance it is you who will triumph over me," replied Alexander.The queen of the Amazons smiled."Then shall it be said of thee," she replied, "that thou wert avaliant warrior who conquered the world, but was himself conquered bywomen. Is that to be your message to history?"King Alexander was a man of learning and of wisdom, as well as a greatsoldier, but the words of the queen of the Amazons were such that hecould not answer. He bowed low before the queen and with a gestureindicated that he had naught to say."Then it is to be peace," said the queen. "At least, before thyreturn, let me prepare for thee a banquet."In a hut made of logs and decorated with skins, a rough wooden tablewas placed before Alexander and on it was laid a loaf of gold."Do ye eat bread of gold?" asked the king, much surprised."Nay," replied the queen. "We are women of simple tastes, but thou arta mighty king. If thou didst but wish to eat ordinary bread in thisland, why didst thou desire to conquer it? Is there no more bread inyour own land that thou shouldst brave the dangers of the darkmountains to eat it here?"Alexander bowed his head on his breast. Never before had he feltashamed."I, Alexander of Macedon," he said, "was a fool until I came to theland beyond the Mountains of Darkness and learned wisdom from women."With all haste he returned through the land of eternal night on hisLibyan asses. But in the flight the cord was broken. He had to trustentirely to the asses, and many long and weary days and nights did hejourney before he saw the light once more.Alexander found himself in a new and beautiful land. There were nosigns of human beings, nor of animals, and a river of the clearestwater he had ever seen, flowed gently along. It was full of fish whichthe soldiers caught quite easily. But a strange thing happened when,after having cut up the fish ready for cooking, they took them to theriver to clean them. All the fish came to life again. the piecesjoined together and darted away in the water.At first Alexander would not believe this, but after he had made anexperiment himself, he said: "Let all who are wounded bathe in thisriver, for surely it will cure every ill. This must be the River ofLife which flows from Paradise."He determined to follow the stream to its source and find the Gardenof Eden. As he marched along, the valley through which the streamflowed, became narrower and narrower, until, at last, only one personcould pass. Alexander continued his journey on foot with a few of hisgenerals walking behind. Mountains, thickly covered with greenestverdure, towered up on either side, the silent river narrowed until itseemed a mere streak of silver flowing gently along, and there was adelicious odor in the air.At length, where the mountains on either side met, Alexander's pathwas barred by a great wall of rock. From a tiny fissure the River ofLife trickled forth, and beside it was a door of gold, beautifullyornamented. Before this door Alexander paused. Then, drawing hissword, he struck the Gate of Paradise with the hilt.There was no answer, and Alexander knocked a second time. Again therewas no reply, and a third time Alexander knocked with some impatience.Then the door slowly opened, and a figure in white stood in the entry.In its hand it held a skull, made of gold, with eyes of rubies."Who knocks so rudely at the Gate of Paradise?" asked the angel."I, Alexander, the Great, of Macedon, the conqueror of the world,"answered Alexander, proudly. "I demand admittance to Paradise.""Hast thou brought peace to the whole world that thou sayest thou artits conqueror?" demanded the angel.Alexander made no answer."Only the righteous who bring peace to mankind may enter Paradisealive," said the angel, gently.Alexander hung his head abashed. then, in a voice broken with emotion,he begged that at least he should be given a memento of his visit.The angel handed him the skull, saying: "Take this and ponder o'er itsmeaning."The angel vanished and the golden door closed.The skull was so heavy that, with all his great strength, Alexandercould scarcely carry it. When he placed it in a balance to ascertainits weight, he found that it was heavier than all his treasures. Noneof his wise men could explain this mystery and so Alexander sought outa Jew among his soldiers, one who had been a student with the rabbis.Taking a handfull of earth the Jew placed it over the eyes and theskull was then as light as air."The meaning is plain," said the Jew. "Not until the human eye iscovered with earth in the grave is it satisfied. Not until afterdeath can man hope to enter Paradise."Alexander was anxious to hasten away from that strange region, butmany of his soldiers declared that they would settle down by the banksof the River of Life. Next morning, however, the river had vanished.Where all had been beautiful was now only a desolate plain, bounded bybare rocky mountains, reaching to the clouds.With heavy hearts Alexander's men began their march back.III THE WONDERS OF THE WORLDOne day a strange rumbling noise was heard, and toward evening thearmy halted by the side of a river even more mysterious than the Riverof Life. It was not a river of water, but of sand and stones. Itflowed along with a roaring sound and every few minutes great stoneswere shot up into the air.Alexander asked the Jewish soldier if he could explain."This," said the Jew, "is the Sambatyon, the river which ceases toflow on the Sabbath.""And what lies beyond?""The land of the Lost Ten Tribes of Israel," was the answer. "Nonehave seen this country.""Cannot the river then be crossed?" asked Alexander."Not by all who wish to cross."The next day was Friday, and Alexander waited until the evening to seewhat would happen.An hour before sunset, at the time of the commencement of Sabbath, theriver ceased to flow. The rumbling died down and the Sambatyonappeared like a broad expanse of shining yellow sand."To morrow I shall cross with my army," said Alexander, but nextmorning the Sambatyon was enveloped in dense black clouds.Alexander could not see a yard in front of him, and when he venturedon to the sand, the horses sank into it. Flames were also seen in theclouds. After the sun had set and the Sabbath had ended, the cloudscleared away, the rumbling began again and the sand flowed once morelike a river.Alexander was disappointed for a while, but at last he consoledhimself with the thought that he had conquered the whole world."Now must I carry out my project of ascending above the clouds andafterward descending into the sea," he said, and he proceeded to carryout the instructions given to him in Jerusalem.Four huge eagles were caught and chained to a big box. At each end ofthe box was a pole, and on the end of each a brilliant jewel wasplaced. When all was in readiness, Alexander entered the box andcarefully closed the doors."Thus did Nimrod ascend into the sky," he said, "but he was a fool. Heshot arrows into the air, and when the angels returned them stainedwith blood, he thought he had killed God. I desire only to see theheavens, not to conquer them."He gave the signal, and the heads of the eagles chained to the poleswere uncovered. The moment they saw the dazzling jewels they tried tosnatch them, but could not. So they continued to rise higher andhigher until the box was carried above the clouds. By looking throughthe windows at the top and bottom of the box, Alexander could see howhigh he was. For a long time he saw nothing but clouds, which appearedlike a vast sea beneath him, but when these cleared away, he saw theearth again.So high was he that the world looked like a ball. Until then he hadnot known the earth was round. The seas enveloping the greater part ofthe globe looked like writhing serpents."Now I can understand," he said, "why the wise rabbis say that thegreat fish, the leviathan, surrounds the world with its tail in itsmouth."Then he looked above. The sun seemed further away than ever."Heaven is not so near as I thought," he said, and seeing himself buta tiny speck miles above the earth and still further away from theheavens, he grew afraid for the first time in his life. With a stickhe knocked the jewels from the poles outside the box, and the eagles,seeing them no longer, began to descend. Alexander breathed morefreely when he was safe on the ground again, but he would not tell hisgenerals what he had seen."Wait until I have descended into the sea," he said.Under his orders, a diving bell of clear thick glass, bound with iron,had been constructed. Alexander entered the bell, all the joints werethen tightly secured with pitch, and the bell lowered from a ship intothe ocean by means of chains.Before he entered, Alexander took the precaution to put on a magicring, which his wife, Roxana, had sent him. This, she said, wouldprotect him against the monsters of the deep.Down, down into the watery deep sank the bell, and for some timeAlexander could see nothing. When his eyes grew accustomed to thestrange, greenish light, he noticed multitudes of queer fish dartinground about the bell. Many were of a shape never conjectured by man,some were so tiny that he could scarcely see them, and others so largethat one of these monsters actually tried to swallow the bell. ButAlexander showed the magic ring which glowed like a blazing star andthe monster darted away.So deep down sank the bell that no light could at last penetrate fromthe sun. Most of the fish, however, were luminous, and Alexander wasalmost dazzled by the changing of the brilliant lights as the denizensof the deep swam swiftly around the bell. Shells of wondrous beautydid he see, together with pearls of great size. The treasures of thedeep were revealed to him, and he saw that the riches on land were asnothing compared with them. He saw the coral insects at their work ofbuilding, and of entrancing beauty growing in the oozy bed of theocean."I wonder," said Alexander, "if I dare venture forth and take some ofthese beautiful gems back with me. The ring will protect me."Alexander was one of the bravest men that ever lived, and heimmediately set about trying to open the bell. In doing so, he rattledthe chains by which it was lowered, and Robus, the officer in charge,took this as a signal to raise the bell.In his excitement he dropped the chains into the sea, and they fellwith a big crash on the bell and smashed it to pieces. When Robus sawwhat had happened, he cast himself into the sea in a gallant endeavorto rescue his master.Down below in the glittering depths of the ocean, Alexander saw thefish hurrying away in great fear and he heard the rattling of thechains as they dropped through the water. He looked up and saw themcrash on the bell. A terrible, buzzing sound filled his ears, athousand dazzling colors danced before his eyes and made him giddy.With great presence of mind he remembered his ring, and immediately abig fish swam underneath him, raised him from the wreckage of the belland rose swiftly to the surface. Alexander emerged just as Robus divedinto the sea. At once he showed the fish his ring and it dived andbrought his gallant officer safe to his side."I have seen enough," said Alexander, when he was safe on land, "morethan mortals should see. I have learned that the earth is for man andthat the air above and the waters beneath are for the other and morewonderful creatures of God."He made preparations to return to Macedon, but his army was weariedwith long marching and begged of him to let them rest. Accordingly, hehalted outside Babylon. Sickness seized him, but he remembered thewarning of the rabbis and would not enter the city. For days hewandered around until his soldiers showed signs of mutiny. Then,throwing caution to the winds, Alexander entered Babylon.At once his illness took a serious turn, and in a few days he died.When the Jews heard the news, they mourned him sincerely, for theyknew that they had lost a good friend. All that remains as a memorialof Alexander is the city of Alexandria, which he founded in Egypt. Itstands to this day.