A king had a daughter who was beautiful beyond all measure, but at thesame time so proud and arrogant that no suitor was good enough for her.She rejected one after the other, ridiculing them as well.Once the king sponsored a great feast and invited from far and near allthe men wanting to get married. They were all placed in a row according totheir rank and standing. First came the kings, then the grand dukes, thenthe princes, the earls, the barons, and the aristocracy. Then the king'sdaughter was led through the ranks, but she objected to something abouteach one. One was too fat: "The wine barrel," she said. Another was tootall: "Thin and tall, no good at all." The third was too short: "Short andthick is never quick." The fourth was too pale: "As pale as death." Thefifth too red: "A prize rooster." The sixth was not straight enough:"Green wood, dried behind the stove."And thus she had some objection to each one, but she ridiculedespecially one good king who stood at the very top of the row, and whosechin had grown a little crooked. "Look!" she cried out, laughing, "He hasa chin like a thrush's beak." And from that time he was calledThrushbeard .Now the old king, seeing that his daughter did nothing but ridicule thepeople, making fun of all the suitors who were gathered there, became veryangry, and he swore that she should have for her husband the very firstbeggar to come to his door.A few days later a minstrel came and sang beneath the window, trying toearn a small handout.When the king heard him he said, "Let him come up."So the minstrel, in his dirty, ragged clothes, came in and sang beforethe king and his daughter, and when he was finished he asked for a smallgift.The king said, "I liked your song so much that I will give you mydaughter for a wife."The king's daughter took fright, but the king said, "I have taken anoath to give you to the very first beggar, and I will keep it."Her protests did not help. The priest was called in, and she had tomarry the minstrel at once. After that had happened the king said, "It isnot proper for you, a beggar's wife, to stay in my palace any longer. Allyou can do now is to go away with your husband."The beggar led her out by the hand, and she had to leave with him,walking on foot.They came to a large forest, and she asked, "Who owns this beautifulforest?""It belongs to King Thrushbeard. If you had taken him, it would beyours.""Oh, I am a miserable thing.If only I'd taken the Thrushbeard King."Afterwards they crossed a meadow, and she asked again, "Who owns thisbeautiful green meadow?""It belongs to king Thrushbeard. If you had taken him, it would beyours.""Oh, I am a miserable thing.If only I'd taken the Thrushbeard King."Then they walked through a large town, and she asked again, "Who ownsthis beautiful large town?""It belongs to king Thrushbeard. If you had taken him, it would beyours.""Oh, I am a miserable thing.If only I'd taken the Thrushbeard King.""I do not like you to always be wishing for another husband," said theminstrel. "Am I not good enough for you?"At last they came to a very little hut, and she said, "Oh goodness.What a small house. Who owns this miserable tiny hut?"The minstrel answered, "This is my house and yours, where we shall livetogether."She had to stoop in order to get in the low door."Where are the servants?" said the king's daughter."What servants?" answered the beggar. "You must do for yourself whatyou want to have done. Now make a fire at once, put some water on to boil,so you can cook me something to eat. I am very tired."But the king's daughter knew nothing about lighting fires or cooking,and the beggar had to lend a hand himself to get anything done at all.When they had finished their scanty meal they went to bed. But he made herget up very early the next morning in order to do the housework.For a few days they lived in this way, as well as they could, but theyfinally came to the end of their provisions.Then the man said, "Wife, we cannot go on any longer eating anddrinking here and earning nothing. You must weave baskets." He went out,cut some willows, and brought them home. Then she began to weave baskets,but the hard willows cut into her delicate hands."I see that this will not do," said the man. "You had better spin.Perhaps you can do that better." She sat down and tried to spin, but thehard thread soon cut into her soft fingers until they bled."See," said the man. "You are not good for any sort of work. I made abad bargain with you. Now I will try to start a business with pots andearthenware. You must sit in the marketplace and sell them.""Oh!" she thought. "If people from my father's kingdom come to themarket and see me sitting there selling things, how they will ridiculeme!"But her protests did not help. She had to do what her husband demanded,unless she wanted to die of hunger.At first it went well. People bought the woman's wares because she wasbeautiful, and they paid her whatever she asked. Many even gave her themoney and let her keep the pots. So they lived on what she earned as longas it lasted. Then the husband bought a lot of new pottery. She sat downwith this at the corner of the marketplace and set it around her for sale.But suddenly there came a drunken hussar galloping along, and he roderight into the pots, breaking them into a thousand pieces. She began tocry, and was so afraid that she did not know what to do."Oh! What will happen to me?" she cried. "What will my husband sayabout this?" She ran home and told him of the misfortune."Who would sit at the corner of the marketplace with earthenware?" saidthe man. "Now stop crying. I see very well that you are not fit for anyordinary work. Now I was at our king's palace and asked if they couldn'tuse a kitchen maid. They promised me to take you. In return you will getfree food."The king's daughter now became a kitchen maid, and had to be availableto the cook, and to do the dirtiest work. In each of her pockets shefastened a little jar, in which she took home her share of the leftovers.And this is what they lived on.It happened that the wedding of the king's eldest son was to becelebrated, so the poor woman went up and stood near the door of the hallto look on. When all the lights were lit, and people, each more beautifulthan the other, entered, and all was full of pomp and splendor, shethought about her plight with a sad heart, and cursed the pride andhaughtiness which had humbled her and brought her to such greatpoverty.The smell of the delicious dishes which were being taken in and outreached her, and now and then the servants threw her a few scraps, whichshe put in her jar to take home.Then suddenly the king's son entered, clothed in velvet and silk, withgold chains around his neck. When he saw the beautiful woman standing bythe door he took her by the hand and wanted danced with her. But sherefused and took fright, for she saw that he was King Thrushbeard, thesuitor whom she had rejected with scorn.Her struggles did not help. He pulled her into the hall. But the stringthat tied up her pockets broke, and the pots fell to the floor. The soupran out, and the scraps flew everywhere. When the people saw this,everyone laughed and ridiculed her. She was so ashamed that she wouldrather have been a thousand fathoms beneath the ground. She jumped out thedoor and wanted to run away, but a man overtook her on the stairs andbrought her back. And when she looked at him, it was King Thrushbeardagain.He said to her kindly, "Don't be afraid. I and the minstrel who hasbeen living with you in that miserable hut are one and the same. For thelove of you I disguised myself. And I was also the hussar who broke yourpottery to pieces. All this was done to humble your proud spirit and topunish you for the arrogance with which you ridiculed me."Then she cried bitterly and said, "I was terribly wrong, and am notworthy to be your wife."But he said, "Be comforted. The evil days are past. Now we willcelebrate our wedding."Then the maids in waiting came and dressed her in the most splendidclothing, and her father and his whole court came and wished her happinessin her marriage with King Thrushbeard, and their true happiness began onlynow.I wish that you and I had been there as well.