Once upon a time there was a king who had a beautiful queen. On thefirst night of their marriage, nothing was written on their bed when theyretired, but when they got up the next day, they read there that theywould have no children. The king was very sad about this, and the queeneven more so. She found it most unfortunate that there would be no heirfor their kingdom.One day, while deep in thought, she wandered to a remote spot. Thereshe met an old woman who asked her why she was so sad. The queen looked upand said, "Oh, telling you will do no good. You can't help me.""But perhaps I can," said the old woman, and asked the queen to tellher story. So the queen agreed, and told how on their wedding night amessage had appeared on their bed that they would have no children. Thiswas why she was so sad. The old woman told her that she could help herhave children. That evening at sunset she should place a platter upsidedown in the northwest corner of the garden. The next morning at sunriseshe should take it away. Beneath it she would find two roses, a red oneand a white one. "Take the red one and eat it, and you shall have a boy.take the white one and it will be a girl. But do not eat them both," saidthe old woman.The queen returned home and did what the old woman had told her to do.The next morning, just as the sun was coming up, she went to the gardenand picked up the platter. There were two roses, a red one and a whiteone. Now she did not know which of the two she should take. If it were thered one, she would have a boy, and he might have to go to war and bekilled, and then again she would have no child. So she decided to take thewhite one. then it would be a girl who would stay at home with her, andthen get married and become queen in another kingdom. Thus she picked upthe white rose and ate it. But it tasted so good that she picked up thered rose and ate it as well.Now it so happened that at this time the king was away at war. When thequeen noticed that she was pregnant she wrote to him to let him know, andhe was very pleased. When the time for her delivery came, she gave birthto a lindorm. As soon as he was born, he crawled under the bed in thebedroom, and stayed there. Sometime later a letter arrived from the kingannouncing that he soon would return home. When his carriage pulled up infront of the castle and the queen came out to receive him, the lindormcame too and wanted to greet him. He jumped up into the carriage, callingout, "Welcome home, father!""What!," said the king. "Am I your father?""Yes, and if you will not be my father, I shall destroy you and thecastle as well!"The king had to agree. They went into the castle together, and thequeen had to confess what had happened between her and the old woman. Somedays later the council and all the important people in the kingdomassembled to welcome the king back home and to congratulate him on thevictory over his enemies. The lindorm came as well and said, "Father, itis time for me to get married!""What are you thinking? Who would have you?" said the king."If you do not find a wife for me, be she young or old, large or small,rich or poor, then I shall destroy you and the entire castle as well."So the king wrote to all the kingdoms, asking if someone would notmarry his son. A beautiful princess responded, but it seemed strange toher that she was not allowed to see her future husband before entering thehall where the wedding was to take place. Only then did the lindorm makehis appearance, taking his place beside her. The wedding day came to anend, and it was time for them to retire to the bedroom. They were scarcelyinside, when he ate her alive.Sometime later, the king's birthday arrived. They were all seated atthe dinner table when the lindorm appeared and said, "Father, I want toget married!""What kind of a woman would have you?" asked the king."If you do not find a wife for me, whoever she may be, I shall eat youup, and the entire castle as well!"So the king wrote to all the kingdoms, asking if someone would notmarry his son. Once again a beautiful princess came from far away. She toowas not allowed to see her groom until she was in the hall where they wereto be married. The lindorm entered and took his place beside her. When thewedding day was over and they went into the bedroom, the lindorm killedher.Sometime later, on the queen's birthday, they were all seated at thedinner table when the lindorm came in and said once again, "Father, I wantto get married!""I cannot get you another wife," answered the king. "The two kingswhose daughters I gave to you are now waging war against me. What am I todo?""Just let them come! As long as I am on your side, just let them come,and even if there were ten of them! But if you do not find a wife for me,be she young or old, large or small, rich or poor, then I shall destroyyou and the castle as well!"The king had to give in, but he was not happy about it. Now one of theking's shepherds, an old man who lived in a little house in the woods, hada daughter. The king went to him and said, "Listen, my dear man. Won't yougive your daughter in marriage to my son?""No, I can't do that. I have only the one child to care for me when Iam older, and further, if the prince can't take care of beautifulprincesses he will not take care of my daughter, and that would be a sin."But the king insisted on having her, and the old man had to give in.The old shepherd went home and told his daughter everything. She becamevery sad and, deep in thought, took a walk in the woods. There she met anold woman who had gone into the woods to pick berries and wild apples. Shewas wearing a red skirt and a blue jacket. "Why are you so sad?" sheasked."I have every reason to be sad, but there is no purpose in my tellingyou about it, because you can't help me.""But perhaps I can," she said. "Just tell me!""Well, I am supposed to marry the king's son, but he is a lindorm andhas already killed two princesses, and I know for sure that he will killme as well.""If you just listen to me, I can help you," said the old woman.The girl was eager to hear her advice. "When you go to the bedroomfollowing the ceremony, you must have ten nightshirts on. If you don'thave that many, then you must borrow some. Ask for a bucketful of lyewater, a bucketful of sweet milk, and an armful of switches. All thesethings must be taken to the bedroom. When he comes in, he will say,'Beautiful maiden, take off your nightshirt!' Then you must say, 'KingLindorm, take off your skin!' You will say that to each other until youhave taken off nine nightshirts and he has taken off nine skins. By thenhe will not have another skin, but you will still have on a nightshirt.Then you must take hold of him. He will be nothing more than a clump ofbloody meat. Dip the switches into the lye water and beat him with themuntil he has almost fallen to pieces. Then you must bathe him in the sweetmilk, wrap him in the nine nightshirts, and hold him on your arm. You willthen fall asleep, but only for a short time."The girl thanked her for the good advice, but she was still afraid, forthis was indeed a dangerous undertaking with such a sinister animal.The wedding day arrived. A large and splendid carriage brought twoladies who prepared the girl for the wedding. Then she was taken to thecastle and led into the hall. The lindorm appeared, took his place next toher, and they were married. When evening arrived, and it was time for themto go to bed, the bride asked for a bucketful of lye water, a bucketful ofsweet milk, and an armful of switches. The men all laughed at her, sayingthat it was some kind of a peasant superstition and all in herimagination. But the king said that she should have what she asked for,and they brought it to her. Before going into the bedroom, she put ninenightshirts over the one she was already wearing.When they both were in the bedroom the lindorm said, "Beautiful maiden,take off your nightshirt!"She answered, "King Lindorm, take off your skin!"And thus it continued until she had taken off nine nightshirts and hehad taken off nine skins. She found new courage, for he was now lying andthe floor with blood flowing freely from him and barely able to move. Thenshe took the switches, dipped them into the lye water, and beat him ashard as she could until there was scarcely a twig left among the sticks.Then she dipped him into the sweet milk and laid him on her arm. She fellasleep, for it was late, and when she awoke, she was lying in the arms ofa handsome prince.Morning came, and no one dared to look into the bedroom, because theyall believed that the same thing had happened to her as to the two others.Finally the king wanted to look, and as he opened the door she called out,"Do come in! Everything is all right!" He went in and was filled with joy.He fetched the queen and the others, and there was a great celebrationabout the bridal bed unlike any that had ever been seen before. The bridalcouple got up and went into another room where they got dressed, becausethe bedroom was in a horrible mess. Then the wedding was celebrated anewwith pomp and joy. The king and queen liked the young queen very much.They could not treat her too well, for she had redeemed their lindorm.Sometime later she became pregnant. There was another war, and the oldking and King Lindorm had gone to the battlefield. Her time arrived, andshe gave birth to two beautiful boys. At this time the Red Knight was atcourt. They asked him to take the king a letter announcing the birth ofthe two beautiful boys. He rode away a short distance and opened theletter, then changed it to read that she had given birth to two youngdogs. The king received the letter and was very sad. He found itunbelievable that she had given birth to young dogs, although it wouldhave not surprised him if it had been a lindorm or something like that. Hewrote back that the creatures should be allowed to live until he returnedhome, that is if they could be kept alive at all. The Red Knight was todeliver this letter, but a short distance away he opened it as well andwrote that the queen and her children were to be burned alive.The old queen was greatly saddened by this letter, for she liked theyoung queen very much. Soon thereafter another letter arrived, announcingthe king's return home. The queen became frightened and did not know whatto do. She could not bring herself to have them burned. She sent the twochildren to live with a wet nurse, for she hoped that the king mightchange his mind once he was back home. She gave the young queen some moneyand food and sent her into the forest.She wandered about in the woods for two days and was in great need. Shecame to a high mountain, which she climbed without stopping. At the topthere were three benches. She sat down on the middle one and squeezed themilk from her breasts, for she was in great distress, not having herchildren with her. Then two large birds, a swan and a crane, flew down andsat on either side of her, and she pressed her milk into their beaks. Theywere that close to her. And even as they sat there, they turned into thetwo most handsome princes that one can imagine, and the mountain turnedinto the most beautiful royal castle, with servants and animals and goldand silver and everything that there should be. They had been enchanted,and the spell would never have been broken if they had not drunk the milkfrom a queen who had just given birth to two boys. She went with them,with King Swan and King Crane. Each one wanted to marry her, for she hadredeemed them both.Meanwhile King Lindorm arrived home and asked about the queen."Indeed!" Said the old queen. "You should be asking about her! Who do youthink that you are! You paid no attention to the fact that she redeemedyou from your curse. You just went ahead and wrote to me that she and thechildren should be burned alive. For shame!""No!" answered King Lindorm. "You wrote to me that she had given birthto two young dogs. And I wrote back that you should let the creatures liveuntil I returned home."They talked back and forth for a long time and finally realized thatthe Red Knight had been behind the treachery. He was captured, and he hadto confess. They locked him in a barrel studded with nails, hitched it tofour horses, and they ran with him over mountains and valleys.The king was full of despair about his wife and children, when hediscovered that they were two beautiful boys. The old queen said to him,"Don't worry, the boys are well cared for. They are staying with wetnurses, but I do not know how she is faring. I gave her some food andmoney and sent her into the woods, but since then we have heard nothingfrom her."The king ordered that the children be brought back. Then he took somefood and some money and went into the woods to look for her. He wanderedabout for two, then three days looking for her, but he could not find her.Finally he came to the castle in the woods. He asked if the people therehad not seen a strange maiden in the woods, but they had not seen anyone.Then he wanted to enter the castle to see what kind of royalty livedthere. He went inside. Just as he entered he saw her, but she was afraid,for she thought that he had come to burn her alive, and she ran away.The two princes came in. They talked together and became good friends.They invited him to stay for dinner. He mentioned the beautiful maiden andasked where she was from. They answered that she was a lovely person andthat she had freed them both. He wanted to know what she had freed themfrom, and they told him the entire story. Then he said that he liked hervery much and asked them if they could not come to an agreement concerningher. He proposed that her dinner should be over salted, and that theperson she would ask to drink to her health should receive her. Theprinces agreed to this arrangement, for this would enable them todetermine which of the two of them would have her, for they did notbelieve that she would ask a stranger to drink to her health.They went to dinner, and she said:The food is too salty for me,King Swan sits next to me,King Crane is good to me,King Lindorm drinks with me.He picked up the silver tankard and drank to her health. The othersdrank to their own health, but then they had to drink to her health aswell, even though they were not satisfied with the outcome. Then KingLindorm told how she had redeemed him before she had redeemed them.Therefore he was the closest one to her. After hearing this, the twoprinces stated that if he had told them this in the first place, theywould have given her to him. But he said that he could not have known thatfor sure.Then King Lindorm returned home with the queen. Meanwhile the childrenhad also been taken back home. King Swan kept the castle in the woods andmarried a princess from another kingdom. And King Crane went to adifferent country where he got married. Thus each one of them hadsomething. King Lindorm and his queen stood in high honor as long as theylived. They were very happy and had many children.When I was there the last time, they offered me a tin sandwich in asieve.