MountainKing Karl fought a great battle at the foot of Odin's Mountain. So muchblood was shed that it eroded deep furrows into the ground. These oftenhave been dammed up, but the rain always washes them open again. Thefloods of blood streamed together and finally poured into the River Besse.Karl fought and prevailed. In the evening the mountain opened up,received him and his exhausted warriors, and then closed its walls.However, the stories about these events contradict one another. Accordingto some, Karl, pursued by the enemy, fled to Odin's Mountain where hebeseeched the Godhead to take him and all of his people into the mountain.The mountain opened up, and Karl went inside with his entire army,whereupon the crevice closed behind them.The king rests from all his heroic deeds in this mountain. He haspromised to come out every seven or every hundred years. When the timecomes, one can hear weapons rattling in the air, the neighing and hoofbeats of horses, and the sounds of drums and bugles. Karl the Fifth andhis warriors are leaving their underground home. The procession goes toGlis Spring, where the horses drink, and then continues its round andfinally returns to the mountain.Sunday's children who were born between two churches have often seen theprocession. Most of the soldiers are maimed. the one has lost an arm,another a leg or an ear. Many have gaping wounds.One time some people went to Odin's Mountain and heard the sound of drumsbut did not see anything. Then a wise man asked them, one after theother, to look through the circle he had made by bending his arm againsthis body. They did this and saw a band of soldiers drilling with theirweapons, coming and going from Odin's Mountain.Inside the mountain they grow oats for their horses. "The Quint" throwsout all the oats that he does not need for his horses. Every day thewarriors clean and thresh oats and pile up large stores in their chambers.Once a swineherd noticed that one of his sows always ran away from theherd when he brought them to Odin's Mountain, and she always returned fatand full. One day he followed her. She ran through a hole into themountain where there was a great store of oats.Every seven years the mountain opens up, and anyone who happens to findthe opening that leads inside is very fortunate, because great treasureslie within the mountain. But the passageway is only open for a fourth ofan hour, and anyone who does not return to the outside before this time isup will have to remain there until the next seven years have passed.However, those whose fate it is to stay there do not grow any older whilethey are inside the mountain. They remain just as they were at the momentthat the mountain closed.Until just a few years ago no one would approach the mountain withoutshuddering for fear of Karl the Fifth. Children who collected nuts andstrawberries there were warned by their parents, "Be careful that theQuint doesn't get you!" Further, mothers disciplined their children withthe threat, "The Quint is coming!"