Godfrey de Bouillon was a famous warrior, a daring general and boldleader of men, who gained victories in several countries. And so, inthe year 1095, when the first Crusade came to be arranged, he wasentrusted with the command of one of the armies and led it acrossEurope in the historic march to the Holy Land.Like many a great soldier of his period, Godfrey was a cruel man, and,above all, he hated the Jews."In this, our Holy War," he said to his men, "we shall slay all thechildren of Israel wherever we shall fall in with them. I shall notrest content until I have exterminated the Jews."True to his inhuman oath, Godfrey and his soldiers massacred largenumbers of Jews. They did this without pity or mercy, saying: "We areperforming a sacred duty, for we have the blessings of the priests onour enterprise."Godfrey felt sure he would be victorious, but he also wanted toobtain the blessing of a rabbi. It was a curious desire, but in thosedays such things were not considered at all strange, and so Godfrey deBouillon sent for the learned Rabbi Solomon ben Isaac, better known byhis world famed name of Rashi.Rashi, one of the wisest sages of the Jews, came to Godfrey, and thetwo men stood facing each other."Thou hast heard of my undertaking to capture Jerusalem," saidGodfrey, haughtily. "I demand thy blessing on my venture.""Blessings are not in the gift of man. they are bestowed by Heaven onworthy objects," answered Rashi."Trifle not with words," retorted the warrior, "or they may cost theedear. A holy man can invoke a blessing."But Rashi was not afraid. He was becoming an old man then, but he wasas brave as the swaggering soldier, and he faced Godfreyunflinchingly."I can make no claim on the God of Israel on behalf of one who hassworn to destroy all the descendants of His chosen people," he said."So, ho!" exclaimed Godfrey, "you defy me."But he stopped his angry words abruptly. He had no wish to quarrelwith any holy man, for that might make him nervous. And nervousness,then, was misunderstood as superstition. Besides, the rabbi mightcurse him."If you will not bless," he said, "perhaps you will deign to raise theveil of the future for me. You wise men of the Jews are seers and canforetell events so they say. A hundred thousand chariots filled withsoldiers brave, determined and strong, are at my command. Tell me,shall I succeed, or fail?""Thou wilt do both." Rashi replied."What mean you?" demanded Godfrey, angrily."This. Jerusalem will fall to thee. So it is ordained, and thou wiltbecome its king.""Ha, ha! So you deem it wisest to pronounce a blessing after all,"interrupted Godfrey. "I am content.""I have not spoken all," said the rabbi, gravely. "Three days wiltthou rule and no more."Godfrey turned pale."Shall I return?" he asked, slowly."Not with thy multitude of chariots. Thy vast army will have dwindledto three horses and three men when thou reachest this city.""Enough," cried Godfrey. "If you think to affright me with theseominous words, you fail in your intent. And hearken, Rabbi of theJews, your words shall be remembered. Should they prove incorrect inthe minutest detail if I am King of Jerusalem for four days, orreturn with four horsemen you shall pay the penalty of a falseprophet and shall be consigned to the flames. Do you understand? Youshall be put to death.""I understand well," returned Rashi, quite unmoved, "it is a sentencewhich you and your kind love to pronounce with or without the sanctionof those whom you call your holy men. It is not I who fear, Godfrey deBouillon. I seek not to peer into the future to assure my own safety."With these words they parted, the rabbi returning to his prayers andto his studies which have enriched the learning of the Jews, whileGodfrey proceeded to lay a trail of innocent Jewish blood along thebanks of the Rhine in his march to Palestine.History has set on record the events of the Crusade. Godfrey, aftermany battles, laid siege to the Holy City, captured it, and drove theJews into one of the synagogues and burned them alive. Eight daysafterward, his soldiers raised him on their shields and proclaimed himking.Godfrey was delighted, but two days later he thought the matter overcarefully and decided that he could not live in Jerusalem always. Sonext day he called together his captains and said:"You have done me great honor. But I must return to Europe, and itwould be more befitting that I should be styled Duke of Jerusalem andGuardian of the Holy City than its sovereign."That night, however, he suddenly remembered the prediction of Rashi."For three days I have been King of Jerusalem," he muttered. "Therabbi of the Jews spoke truth."He could not help wondering whether the rest of the prophecy would befulfilled, and he became moody. He was joyful when he gained avictory, but there came also disasters, and he was plunged intodespondency. The reverses affected the buoyancy of his troops, diseasedecimated their ranks, and desertions further depleted their numbers.Slowly but surely his mighty army dwindled away to a mere handful ofdissatisfied men and decrepit horses.It was a ragged and wretched procession that he led back acrossEurope, and daily his retinue grew smaller. Men and horses droppedfrom sheer fatigue helpless by the wayside, and were left there todie, with the hungry vultures perched on trees, patiently waiting forthe last flicker of life to depart before they set to work to pick thebones of all flesh.Godfrey de Bouillon had gained his victory, but at what cost?Thousands of men, women and children had been murdered, thousands ofhis soldiers had fallen in battle, and now hundreds of others haddropped out of the ranks to end their last hours on the ghastly roadthat led from Jerusalem back to western Europe. Do you wonder thatGodfrey was unhappy, and that he thought every moment of the words ofRashi?At length he reached the city of Worms where Rashi dwelt. With himwere four men, mounted on horses."It is well," he said, with as much cheerfulness as he could muster,as he surveyed the remnants of his once proud army. "The rabbi hasfailed."Godfrey bade his men fall into line behind him and he proudly rodethrough the gate of the city. As he did so, he heard a cry of alarm.He turned hastily and saw a huge stone falling from the city's gate.It dropped on the soldier riding just behind him, killing both man andhorse."You have spoken truth. would that I had taken heed of your words," hesaid to the rabbi. "I am a broken man. You will assuredly achievegreat fame in Israel."And so it has come to pass. Should you, by chance, ever visit the cityof Brussels, the capital of Belgium, fail not to look upon the statueof Godfrey de Bouillon, with his sword proudly raised. It stands inthe Place Royale but a few minutes' walk from the synagogue. Shouldyou ever be in the ancient city of Worms that stands on the Rhine, doas other visitors, Jews and Gentiles enter the synagogue that wasbuilt many centuries ago, and you will see the room where Rashistudied and the stone seat on which he sat. And not far from thesynagogue you will see the ancient gate of the city, named in honor ofRabbi Solomon ben Isaac, the Rashi Gate. Perhaps it is the very oneunder which Godfrey de Bouillon passed into the city with his threemounted companions, as the legend tells.(: The four youths mounted the eagles which flewaloft to the extremity of their cords. (_Page 211_).)