Next to a great forest there lived an old man who had three sons andtwo daughters. Once they were sitting together thinking of nothing when asplendid carriage suddenly drove up and stopped in front of their house. Adignified gentleman climbed from the carriage, entered the house, andengaged the father and his daughters in conversation. Because heespecially liked the youngest one, he asked the father if he would notgive her to him to be his wife.This seemed to the father to be a good marriage, and he had longdesired to see his daughters taken care of while he was still alive.However, the daughter could not bring herself to say yes, for the strangeknight had an entirely blue beard, which caused her to shudder with fearwhenever she looked at him.She went to her brothers, who were valiant knights, and asked them foradvice. The brothers thought that she should accept Bluebeard, and theygave her a little whistle, saying, "If you are ever threatened, just blowthis whistle, and we will come to your aid!"Thus she let herself be talked into becoming the strange man's wife,but she did arrange for her sister to accompany her when King Bluebeardtook her to his castle.When the young wife arrived there, there was great joy throughout theentire castle, and King Bluebeard was very happy as well. This continuedfor about four weeks, and then he said that he was going on a journey. Heturned all the keys of the castle over to his wife, saying, "You may goanywhere in the castle, unlock everything, and look at anything you wantto, except for one door, to which this little golden key belongs. If youvalue your life, you are not allowed to open it!""Oh no!" she said, adding that she surely would not open that door. Butafter the king had been away for a while, she could find no rest forconstantly thinking about what there might be in the forbidden chamber.She was just about to unlock it when her sister approached her and heldher back. However, on the morning of the fourth day, she could no longerresist the temptation, and taking the key she secretly crept to the room,stuck the key into the lock, and opened the door.Horrified, she saw that the entire room was filled with corpses, all ofthem women. She wanted to slam the door shut immediately, but the key fellout and into the blood. She quickly picked it up, but it was stained withblood. And however much she rubbed and cleaned it, the stains would not goaway. With fear and trembling she went to her sister.When King Bluebeard finally returned from his journey, he immediatelyasked for the golden key. Seeing the bloodstains on it, he said, "Wife,why did you not heed my warning? Your hour has now struck! Prepareyourself to die, for you have been in the forbidden room!"Crying, she went to her sister, who lived upstairs in the castle. Whileshe was bemoaning her fate to her, the sister thought of the whistle thatshe had received from her brothers, and said, "Give me the whistle! Ishall send a signal to our brothers. Perhaps they will be able to help!"And she blew the whistle three times, issuing a bright sound that rangthrough the woods.An hour later they heard Bluebeard rustling up the stairs to get hiswife and slaughter her. "Oh God, oh God!" she cried out. "Aren't mybrothers coming?" She rushed to the door and locked it, then fearfullystood there holding it shut as well.Bluebeard pounded on the door, crying out that she should open it, andwhen she did not do so, he tried to break it down."Oh sister, oh sister, aren't my brothers coming?" she said to hersister, who was standing at the window looking out into the distance.She replied, "I don't see anyone yet."Meanwhile, Bluebeard was breaking the door apart more and more, and theopening was almost large enough for him to get through, when three knightssuddenly appeared before the castle. The sister cried from the window asloudly as she could, "Help! Help!" and waved to her brothers.They stormed up the stairs to where they had heard their sister's cryfor help. There they saw King Bluebeard, sword in hand, standing beforethe broken door, and they heard their sister screaming inside the room.Immediately sensing what he was up to, they quickly ran their daggers intohis breast and killed him.When the brothers learned what the godless king was going to do totheir sister, and that he had already killed so many women, they destroyedhis castle, so that there was not one stone remaining on another one. Theytook with them all his treasures, and lived happily with their sisters intheir father's house.