Galeotto, King of Anglia, has a son who is bornin the shape of a pig. This son marries three wives, and in the end,having thrown off his semblance, becomes a handsome youth.Fair ladies, if man were to spend a thousand years in rendering thanksto his creator for having made him in the form of a human and not of abrute beast, he could not speak gratitude enough. This reflection calls tomind the story of one who was born as a pig, but afterwards became acomely youth. Nevertheless, to his dying day he was known to the peopleover whom he ruled as King Pig.You must know, dear ladies, that Galeotto, King of Anglia, was a manhighly blest in worldly riches, and in his wife Ersilia, the daughter ofMatthias, King of Hungary, a princess who, in virtue and beauty, outshoneall the other ladies of the time. And Galeotto was a wise king, ruling hisland so that no man could hear complaint against him. Though they had beenseveral years married they had no child, wherefore they both of them weremuch aggrieved.While Ersilia was walking one day in her garden she felt suddenlyweary, and remarking hard by a spot covered with fresh green turf, shewent up to it and sat down thereon, and, overcome with weariness andsoothed by the sweet singing of the birds in the green foliage, she fellasleep.And it chanced that while she slept there passed by three fairies whoheld mankind somewhat in scorn, and these, when they beheld the sleepingqueen, halted, and gazing upon her beauty, took counsel together how theymight protect her and throw a spell upon her.When they were agreed, the first cried out, "I will that no man shallbe able to harm her, and that, the next time she lie with her husband, shemay be with child and bear a son who shall not have his equal in all theworld for beauty."Then said the second, "I will that no one shall ever have power tooffend her, and that the prince who shall be born of her shall be giftedwith every virtue under the sun."And the third said, "And I will that she shall be the wisest amongwomen, but that the son whom she shall conceive shall be born in the skinof a pig, with a pig's ways and manners, and in this state he shall beconstrained to abide till he shall have three times taken a woman towife."As soon as the three fairies had flown away Ersilia awoke, andstraightway arose and went back to the palace, taking with her the flowersshe had plucked. Not many days had passed before she knew herself to bewith child, and when the time of her delivery was come, she gave birth toa son with members like those of a pig and not of a human being.When tidings of this prodigy came to the ears of the king and queenthey lamented sore thereanent, and the king, bearing in mind how good andwise his queen was, often felt moved to put this offspring of hers todeath and cast it into the sea, in order that she might be spared theshame of having given birth to him. But when he debated in his mind andconsidered that this son, let him be what he might, was of his ownbegetting, he put aside the cruel purpose which he had been harboring,and, seized with pity and grief, he made up his mind that the son shouldbe brought up and nurtured like a rational being and not as a brute beast.The child, therefore, being nursed with the greatest care, would oftenbe brought to the queen and put his little snout and his little paws inhis mother's lap, and she, moved by natural affection, would caress him bystroking his bristly back with her hand, and embracing and kissing him asif he had been of human form. Then he would wag his tail and give othersigns to show that he was conscious of his mother's affection.The pigling, when he grew older, began to talk like a human being, andto wander abroad in the city, but whenever he came near to any mud or dirthe would always wallow therein, after the manner of pigs, and return allcovered with filth. Then, when he approached the king and queen, he wouldrub his sides against their fair garments, defiling them with all mannerof dirt, but because he was indeed their own son they bore it all.One day he came home covered with mud and filth, as was his wont, andlay down on his mother's rich robe, and said in a grunting tone, "Mother,I wish to get married."When the queen heard this, she replied, "Do not talk so foolishly. Whatmaid would ever take you for a husband, and think you that any noble orknight would give his daughter to one so dirty and ill savored as you?"But he kept on grunting that he must have a wife of one sort oranother. They queen, not knowing how to manage him in this matter, askedthe king what they should do in their trouble, "Our son wishes to marry,but where shall we find anyone who will take him as a husband?"Every day the pig would come back to his mother with the same demand,"I must have a wife, and I will never leave you in peace until you procurefor me a certain maiden I have seen today, who pleases me greatly."It happened that this maiden was a daughter of a poor woman who hadthree daughters. When the queen heard this, she had brought before her thepoor woman and her eldest daughter, and said, "Good mother, you are poorand burdened with children. If you will agree to what I shall say to you,you will be rich. I have this son who is, as you see, in form a pig, and Iwould fain marry him to your eldest daughter. Do not consider him, butthink of the king and of me, and remember that your daughter will inheritthis whole kingdom when the king and I shall be dead."When the young girl listened to the words of the queen she was greatlydisturbed in her mind and blushed red for shame, and then said that on noaccount would she listen to the queen's proposition. but the poor motherbesought her so pressingly that at last she yielded.When the pig came home one day, all covered with dirt as usual, hismother said to him, "My son, we have found for you the wife you desire."And then she caused to be brought in the bride, who by this time had beenrobed in sumptuous regal attire, and presented her to the pig prince. Whenhe saw how lovely and desirable she was he was filled with joy, and, allfoul and dirty as he was, jumped round about her, endeavoring by hispawing and nuzzling to show some sign of his affection.But she, when she found he was soiling her beautiful dress, thrust himaside. whereupon the pig said to her, "Why do you push me thus? Have I nothad these garments made for you myself?"Then she answered disdainfully, "No, neither you nor any other of thewhole kingdom of hogs has done this thing."And when the time for going to bed was come the young girl said toherself, "What am I to do with this foul beast? This very night, while helies in his first sleep, I will kill him."The pig prince, who was not far off, heard these words, but saidnothing, and when the two retired to their chamber he got into the bed,stinking and dirty as he was, and defiled the sumptuous bed with hisfilthy paws and snout. He lay down by his spouse, who was not long infalling to sleep, and then he struck her with his sharp hoofs and drovethem into her breast so that he killed her.The next morning the queen went to visit her daughter in law, and toher great grief found that the pig had killed her. and when he came backfrom wandering about the city he said, in reply to the queen's bitterreproaches, that he had only wrought with his wife as she was minded todeal with him, and then withdrew in an ill humor.Not many days had passed before the pig prince again began to beseechthe queen to allow him to marry one of the other sisters, and because thequeen at first would not listen to his petition he persisted in hispurpose, and threatened to ruin everything in the place if he could nothave her to wife. The queen, when she heard this, went to the king andtold him everything, and he made answer that perhaps it would be wiser tokill their ill fated offspring before he might work some fatal mischief inthe city.But the queen felt all the tenderness of a mother toward him, and lovedhim very dearly in spite of his brutal person, and could not endure thethought of being parted from him. so she summoned once more to the palacethe poor woman, together with her second daughter, and held a longdiscourse with her, begging her the while to give her daughter inmarriage.At last the girl assented to take the pig prince for a husband. but herfate was no happier than her sister's, for the bridegroom killed her, ashe had killed his other bride, and then fled headlong from the palace.When he came back dirty as usual and smelling so foully that no onecould approach him, the king and queen censured him gravely for theoutrage he had wrought. but again he cried out boldly that if he had notkilled her she would have killed him.As it had happened before, the pig in a very short time began toimportune his mother again to let him have to wife the youngest sister,who was much more beautiful than either of the others. and when thisrequest of his was refused steadily, he became more insistent than ever,and in the end began to threaten the queen's life in violent andbloodthirsty words, unless he should have given to him the young girl forhis wife.The queen, when she heard this shameful and unnatural speech, waswell nigh broken hearted and like to go out of her mind. but, putting allother considerations aside, she called for the poor woman and her thirddaughter, who was named Meldina, and thus addressed her, "Meldina, mychild, I should be greatly pleased if you would take the pig prince for ahusband. pay no regard to him, but to his father and to me. then, if youwill be prudent and bear patiently with him, you may be the happiest womanin the world."To this speech Meldina answered, with a grateful smile upon her face,that she was quite content to do as the queen bade her, and thanked herhumbly for deigning to choose her as a daughter in law. for, seeing thatshe herself had nothing in the world, it was indeed great good fortunethat she, a poor girl, should become the daughter in law of a potentsovereign.The queen, when she heard this modest and amiable reply, could not keepback her tears for the happiness she felt. but she feared all the timethat the same fate might be in store for Meldina as her sisters.When the new bride had been clothed in rich attire and decked withjewels, and was awaiting the bridegroom, the pig prince came in, filthierand more muddy than ever. but she spread out her rich gown and besoughthim to lie down by her side. Whereupon the queen bade her to thrust himaway, but to this she would not consent, and spoke thus to the queen,"There are three wise sayings, gracious lady, which I remember to haveheard. The first is that it is folly to waste time in searching for thatwhich cannot be found. The second is that we should believe nothing we mayhear, except those things which bear the marks of sense and reason. Thethird is that, when once you have got possession of some rare and precioustreasure, prize it well and keep a firm hold upon it."When the maiden had finished speaking, the pig prince, who had beenwide awake and had heard all that she had said, got up, kissed her on theface and neck and bosom and shoulders with his tongue, and she was notbackward in returning his caresses. so that he was fired with a warm lovefor her.As soon as the time for retiring for the night had come, the bride wentto bed and awaited her unseemly spouse, and, as soon as he came, sheraised the coverlet and bade him lie near to her and put his head upon thepillow, covering him carefully with the bedclothes and drawing thecurtains so that he might feel no cold.When morning had come the pig got up and ranged abroad to pasture, aswas his wont, and very soon after the queen went to the bride's chamber,expecting to find that she had met with the same fate as her sisters. butwhen she saw her lying in the bed, all defiled with mud as it was, andlooking pleased and contented, she thanked God for this favor, that herson had at last found a spouse according to his liking.One day, soon after this, when the pig prince was conversing pleasantlywith his wife, he said to her, "Meldina, my beloved wife, if I could befully sure that you could keep a secret, I would now tell you one of mine.something I have kept hidden for many years. I know you to be very prudentand wise, and that you love me truly. so I wish to make you the sharer ofmy secret.""You may safely tell it to me, if you will," said Meldina, "for Ipromise never to reveal it to anyone without your consent."Whereupon, being now sure of his wife's discretion and fidelity, herstraightway shook off from his body the foul and dirty skin of the pig,and stood revealed as a handsome and well shaped young man, and all thatnight rested closely folded in the arms of his beloved wife.But he charged her solemnly to keep silence about this wonder she hadseen, for the time had not yet come for his complete delivery from thismisery. So when he left the bed he donned the dirty pig's hid once more. Ileave you to imagine for yourselves how great was the great joy of Meldinawhen she discovered that, instead of a pig, she had gained a handsome andgallant young prince for a husband.Not long after this she proved to with child, and when the time herdelivery came she gave birth to a fair and shapely boy. The joy of theking and queen was unbounded, especially when they found that the newbornchild had the form of a human being and not that of a beast.But the burden of the strange and weighty secret which her husband hadconfided to her pressed heavily upon Meldina, and one day she went to hermother in law and said, "Gracious queen, when first I married your son Ibelieved I was married to a beast, but not I find that you have given methe comeliest, the worthiest, and the most gallant young man ever borninto the world to be my husband. For know that when he comes into mychamber to lie by my side, he casts off his dirty hide and leaves it onthe ground, and is changed into a graceful handsome youth. No one couldbelieve this marvel save they saw it with their own eyes."When the queen heard these words she deemed that her daughter in lawmust be jesting with her, but Meldina still persisted that what she saidwas true. And when the queen demanded to know how she might witness withher own eyes the truth of this thing, Meldina replied, "Come to my chambertonight, when we shall be in our first sleep. the door will be open, andyou will find that what I tell you is the truth."That same night, when the looked for time had come, and all were goneto rest, the queen let some torches be kindled and went, accompanied bythe king, to the chamber of her son, and when she had entered she saw thepig's skin lying on the floor in the corner of the room, and having goneto the bedside, found therein a handsome young man in whose arms Meldinawas lying. And when they saw this, the delight of the king and queen wasvery great, and the king gave order that before anyone should leave thechamber the pig's hide should be torn to shreds. So great was their joyover the recovery of their son that they well nigh died thereof.And King Galeotto, when he saw that he had so fine a son, and agrandchild likewise, laid aside his diadem and his royal robes, andadvanced to his place his son, whom he let be crowned with the greatestpomp, and who was ever afterwards known as King Pig. Thus, to the greatcontentment of all the people, the young king began his reign, and helived long and happily with Meldina his beloved wife.