Once upon a time there was a poor woman who had an only daughter, namedHelen, avery lazy girl. One day when she had refused to do a single thing, hermothertook her down to the banks of a stream and began to strike her fingerswith aflat stone, just as you do in beating linen to wash it.The girl cried a good deal. A prince, Lord of the Red Castle, happened atthatmoment to pass by, and inquired as to the cause of such treatment, for ithorrified him that a mother should so ill use her child."Why should I not punish her?" answered the woman. "The idle girl can donothing but spin hemp into gold thread.""Really?" cried he. "Does she really know how to spin gold thread out ofhemp?If that be so, sell her to me.""Willingly. how much will you give me for her?""Half a measure of gold.""Take her," said the mother. and she gave him her daughter as soon as themoneywas paid.The prince placed the girl behind him on the saddle, put spurs to hishorse, andtook her home.On reaching the Red Castle, the prince led Helen into a room filled fromfloorto ceiling with hemp, and having supplied her with distaff and spinningwheel,said, "When you have spun all this hemp into gold thread I will make youmywife."Then he went out, locking the door after him.On finding herself a prisoner, the poor girl wept as if her heart wouldbreak.Suddenly she saw a very odd looking little man seated on the window sill.Hewore a red cap, and his boots were made of some strange sort of material."Why do you weep so?" he asked."I cannot help it," she replied, "I am but a miserable slave. I have beenordered to spin all this hemp into gold thread, but it is impossible, Icannever do it, and I know not what will become of me."I will do it for you in three days, on condition that at the end of thattimeyou guess my right name, and tell me what the boots I am wearing now aremadeof."Without for one moment reflecting as to whether she would be able to guessaright she consented. The uncanny little man burst out laughing, andtaking herdistaff set to work at once.All day as the distaff moved the hemp grew visibly less, while the skeinof goldthread became larger and larger.The little man spun all the time, and, without stopping an instant,explained toHelen how to make thread of pure gold. As night drew on he tied up theskein,saying to the girl, "Well, do you know my name yet? Can you tell me whatmyboots are made of?"Helen replied that she could not, upon which he grinned and disappearedthroughthe window. She then sat and looked at the sky, and thought, and thought,andthought, and lost herself in conjecturing as to what the little man's namemightbe, and in trying to guess what was the stuff his boots were made of.Were theyof leather? or perhaps plaited rushes? or straw? or cast iron? No, theydid notlook like anything of that sort. And as to his name   that was a stillmoredifficult problem to solve."What shall I call him?" said she to herself   "John? Or Henry? Whoknows?perhaps it is Paul or Joseph."These thoughts so filled her mind that she forgot to eat her dinner. Hermeditations were interrupted by cries and groans from outside, where shesaw anold man with white hair sitting under the castle wall."Miserable old man that I am," cried he. "I die of hunger and thirst, butno onepities my sufferings."Helen hastened to give him her dinner, and told him to come next day,which hepromised to do.After again thinking for some time what answers she should give the littleoldman, she fell asleep on the hemp.The little old man did not fail to make his appearance the first thingnextmorning, and remained all day spinning the gold thread. The workprogressedbefore their eyes, and it was only when evening came that he repeated hisquestions. Not receiving a satisfactory answer, he vanished in a fit ofmockinglaughter. Helen sat down by the window to think. but think as she might,noanswer to these puzzling questions occurred to her.While thus wondering the hungry old man again came by, and she gave himherdinner. She was heart sick and her eyes were full of tears, for shethought shewould never guess the spinner's name, nor of what stuff his boots weremade,unless perhaps God would help her."Why are you so sad?" asked the old man when he had eaten and drunk. "tellmethe cause of you grief, dear lady."For a long time she would not tell him, thinking it would be useless. butatlast, yielding to his entreaties, she gave a full account of theconditionsunder which the gold thread was made, explaining that unless she couldanswerthe little old man's questions satisfactorily she feared some greatmisfortunewould befall her.The old man listened attentively, then, nodding his head, he said: "Incomingthrough the forest today I passed close to a large pile of burning wood,roundwhich were placed nine iron pots. A little man in a red cap was runningroundand jumping over them, singing these words:My sweet friend, fair Helen, at the Red Castle near,Two days and two nights seeks my name to divine,She'll never find out, so the third night 'tis clearMy sweet friend, fair Helen, can't fail to be mine.Hurrah! for my name is Kinkach Martinko,Hurrah! for my boots are of doggies' skin O!"Now that is exactly what you want to know, my dear girl. so do notforget, andyou are saved."And with these words the old man vanished.Helen was greatly astonished, but she took care to fix in her memory allthatthe good fellow had told her, and then went to sleep, feeling that shecouldface tomorrow without fear.One the third day, very early in the morning, the little old man appearedandset busily to work, for he knew that all the hemp must be spun beforesunset,and that then he should be able to claim his rights. When evening cameall thehemp was gone, and the room shone with the brightness of the goldenthread.As soon as his work was done, the queer little old man with the red capdrewhimself up with a great deal of assurance, and with his hand in hispocketsstrutted up and down before Helen, ordering her to tell him his right nameandto say of what stuff the boots were made. but he felt certain that shewould notbe able to answer aright."Your name is Kinkach Martinko, and your boots are made of dogskin," sherepliedwithout the slightest hesitation.At these words he spun round on the floor like a bobbin, tore out his hairandbeat his breast with rage, roaring so that the very walls trembled."It is lucky for you that you have guessed. If you had not, I should havetornyou to pieces on this very spot:" so saying he rushed out of the windowlike awhirlwind.Helen felt deeply grateful towards the old man who had told her theanswers, andhoped to be able to thank him in person. But he never appeared again.The Prince of the Red Castle was very pleased with her for havingaccomplishedher task so punctually and perfectly, and he married her as he hadpromised.Helen was truly thankful to have escaped the dangers that had threatenedher,and her happiness as a princess was greater than she had dared hope. Shehad,too, such a good stock of gold thread that she never had occasion to spinanymore all her life long.