Once upon a time there lived a queen who had a beautiful cat, the colourof smoke, with china blue eyes, which she was very fond of. The cat wasconstantly with her, and ran after her wherever she went, and even satup proudly by her side when she drove out in her fine glass coach.'Oh, pussy,' said the queen one day, 'you are happier than I am! For youhave a dear kitten just like yourself, and I have nobody to play withbut you.''Don't cry,' answered the cat, laying her paw on her mistress's arm.'Crying never does any good. I will see what can be done.'The cat was as good as her word. As soon as she returned from her driveshe trotted off to the forest to consult a fairy who dwelt there, andvery soon after the queen had a little girl, who seemed made out of snowand sunbeams. The queen was delighted, and soon the baby began to takenotice of the kitten as she jumped about the room, and would not go tosleep at all unless the kitten lay curled up beside her.Two or three months went by, and though the baby was still a baby, thekitten was fast becoming a cat, and one evening when, as usual, thenurse came to look for her, to put her in the baby's cot, she wasnowhere to be found. What a hunt there was for that kitten, to be sure!The servants, each anxious to find her, as the queen was certain toreward the lucky man, searched in the most impossible places. Boxes wereopened that would hardly have held the kitten's paw. books were takenfrom bookshelves, lest the kitten should have got behind them, drawerswere pulled out, for perhaps the kitten might have got shut in. But itwas all no use. The kitten had plainly run away, and nobody could tellif it would ever choose to come back.Years passed away, and one day, when the princess was playing ball inthe garden, she happened to throw her ball farther than usual, and itfell into a clump of rose bushes. The princess of course ran after itat once, and she was stooping down to feel if it was hidden in the longgrass, when she heard a voice calling her: 'Ingibjorg! Ingibjorg!' itsaid, 'have you forgotten me? I am Kisa, your sister!''But I never HAD a sister,' answered Ingibjorg, very much puzzled. forshe knew nothing of what had taken place so long ago.'Don't you remember how I always slept in your cot beside you, and howyou cried till I came? But girls have no memories at all! Why, I couldfind my way straight up to that cot this moment, if I was once insidethe palace.''Why did you go away then?' asked the princess. But before Kisa couldanswer, Ingibjorg's attendants arrived breathless on the scene, and wereso horrified at the sight of a strange cat, that Kisa plunged into thebushes and went back to the forest.The princess was very much vexed with her ladies in waiting forfrightening away her old playfellow, and told the queen who came to herroom every evening to bid her good night.'Yes, it is quite true what Kisa said,' answered the queen. 'I shouldhave liked to see her again. Perhaps, some day, she will return, andthen you must bring her to me.'Next morning it was very hot, and the princess declared that she mustgo and play in the forest, where it was always cool, under the big shadytrees. As usual, her attendants let her do anything she pleased, andsitting down on a mossy bank where a little stream tinkled by, soon fellsound asleep. The princess saw with delight that they would pay noheed to her, and wandered on and on, expecting every moment to see somefairies dancing round a ring, or some little brown elves peeping ather from behind a tree. But, alas! she met none of these. instead, ahorrible giant came out of his cave and ordered her to follow him. Theprincess felt much afraid, as he was so big and ugly, and began to besorry that she had not stayed within reach of help. but as there was nouse in disobeying the giant, she walked meekly behind.They went a long way, and Ingibjorg grew very tired, and at length beganto cry.'I don't like girls who make horrid noises,' said the giant, turninground. 'But if you WANT to cry, I will give you something to cry for.'And drawing an axe from his belt, he cut off both her feet, which hepicked up and put in his pocket. Then he went away.Poor Ingibjorg lay on the grass in terrible pain, and wondering if sheshould stay there till she died, as no one would know where to look forher. How long it was since she had set out in the morning she could nottell it seemed years to her, of course. but the sun was still high inthe heavens when she heard the sound of wheels, and then, with a greateffort, for her throat was parched with fright and pain, she gave ashout.'I am coming!' was the answer. and in another moment a cart made its waythrough the trees, driven by Kisa, who used her tail as a whip to urgethe horse to go faster. Directly Kisa saw Ingibjorg lying there, shejumped quickly down, and lifting the girl carefully in her two frontpaws, laid her upon some soft hay, and drove back to her own little hut.In the corner of the room was a pile of cushions, and these Kisaarranged as a bed. Ingibjorg, who by this time was nearly fainting fromall she had gone through, drank greedily some milk, and then sank backon the cushions while Kisa fetched some dried herbs from a cupboard,soaked them in warm water and tied them on the bleeding legs. The painvanished at once, and Ingibjorg looked up and smiled at Kisa.'You will go to sleep now,' said the cat, 'and you will not mind if Ileave you for a little while. I will lock the door, and no one can hurtyou.' But before she had finished the princess was asleep. Then Kisagot into the cart, which was standing at the door, and catching up thereins, drove straight to the giant's cave.Leaving her cart behind some trees, Kisa crept gently up to the opendoor, and, crouching down, listened to what the giant was telling hiswife, who was at supper with him.'The first day that I can spare I shall just go back and kill her,' hesaid. 'it would never do for people in the forest to know that a meregirl can defy me!' And he and his wife were so busy calling Ingibjorgall sorts of names for her bad behaviour, that they never noticed Kisastealing into a dark corner, and upsetting a whole bag of salt into thegreat pot before the fire.'Dear me, how thirsty I am!' cried the giant by and by.'So am I,' answered the wife. 'I do wish I had not taken that lastspoonful of broth. I am sure something was wrong with it.''If I don't get some water I shall die,' went on the giant. And rushingout of the cave, followed by his wife, he ran down the path which led tothe river.Then Kisa entered the hut, and lost no time in searching every hole tillshe came upon some grass, under which Ingibjorg's feet were hidden, andputting them in her cart, drove back again to her own hut.Ingibjorg was thankful to see her, for she had lain, too frightened tosleep, trembling at every noise.'Oh, is it you?' she cried joyfully, as Kisa turned the key. And the catcame in, holding up the two neat little feet in their silver slippers.'In two minutes they shall be as tight as they ever were!' saidKisa. And taking some strings of the magic grass which the giant hadcarelessly heaped on them, she bound the feet on to the legs above.'Of course you won't be able to walk for some time. you must not expectTHAT,' she continued. 'But if you are very good, perhaps, in about aweek, I may carry you home again.'And so she did. and when the cat drove the cart up to the palace gate,lashing the horse furiously with her tail, and the king and queen sawtheir lost daughter sitting beside her, they declared that no rewardcould be too great for the person who had brought her out of the giant'shands.'We will talk about that by and by,' said the cat, as she made her bestbow, and turned her horse's head.The princess was very unhappy when Kisa left her without even biddingher farewell. She would neither eat nor drink, nor take any notice ofall the beautiful dresses her parents bought for her.'She will die, unless we can make her laugh,' one whispered to theother. 'Is there anything in the world that we have left untried?''Nothing except marriage,' answered the king. And he invited all thehandsomest young men he could think of to the palace, and bade theprincess choose a husband from among them.It took her some time to decide which she admired the most, but at lastshe fixed upon a young prince, whose eyes were like the pools in theforest, and his hair of bright gold. The king and the queen were greatlypleased, as the young man was the son of a neighbouring king, and theygave orders that a splendid feast should be got ready.When the marriage was over, Kisa suddenly stood before them, andIngibjorg rushed forward and clasped her in her arms.'I have come to claim my reward,' said the cat. 'Let me sleep for thisnight at the foot of your bed.''Is that ALL?' asked Ingibjorg, much disappointed.'It is enough,' answered the cat. And when the morning dawned, it was nocat that lay upon the bed, but a beautiful princess.'My mother and I were both enchanted by a spiteful fairy,' said she,'we could not free ourselves till we had done some kindly deed that hadnever been wrought before. My mother died without ever finding a chanceof doing anything new, but I took advantage of the evil act of the giantto make you as whole as ever.'Then they were all more delighted than before, and the princess livedin the court until she, too, married, and went away to govern one of herown.