(_As told by an Irish Peasant._)There was a King in his own time in Erin, and he went hunting one day.The King met a man whose head was out through his cap, whose elbows andknees were out through his clothing, and whose toes were out through hisshoes.The man went up to the King, gave him a blow on the face, and drovethree teeth from his mouth. The same blow put the King's head in thedirt. When he rose from the earth, the King went back to his castle, andlay down sick and sorrowful.The King had three sons, and their names were Ur, Arthur, and LawnDyarrig. The three were at school that day, and came home in theevening. The father sighed when the sons were coming in."What is wrong with our father?" asked the eldest."Your father is sick on his bed," said the mother.The three sons went to their father and asked what was on him."A strong man that I met to day gave me a blow in the face, put my headin the dirt, and knocked three teeth from my mouth. What would you do tohim if you met him?" asked the father of the eldest son."If I met that man," replied Ur, "I would make four parts of him betweenfour horses.""You are my son," said the King. "What would you do if you met him?"asked he then as he turned to the second son."If I had a grip on that man I would burn him between four fires.""You, too, are my son. What would you do?" asked the King of LawnDyarrig."If I met that man, I would do my best against him, and he might notstand long before me.""You are not my son. I would not lose lands or property on you," saidthe father. "You must go from me, and leave this to morrow."On the following morning the three brothers rose with the dawn. theorder was given Lawn Dyarrig to leave the castle and make his own wayfor himself. The other two brothers were going to travel the world toknow could they find the man who had injured their father. Lawn Dyarriglingered outside till he saw the two, and they going off by themselves."It is a strange thing," said he, "for two men of high degree to gotravelling without a servant.""We need no one," said Ur."Company wouldn't harm us," said Arthur.The two let Lawn Dyarrig go with them as a serving boy, and set out tofind the man who had struck down their father. They spent all that daywalking, and came late to a house where one woman was living. She shookhands with Ur and Arthur, and greeted them. Lawn Dyarrig she kissed andwelcomed. called him son of the King of Erin."It is a strange thing to shake hands with the elder, and kiss theyounger," said Ur."This is a story to tell," said the woman, "the same as if your deathwere in it."They made three parts of that night. The first part they spent inconversation, the second in telling tales, the third in eating anddrinking, with sound sleep and sweet slumber. As early as the day dawnednext morning the old woman was up, and had food for the young men. Whenthe three had eaten, she spoke to Ur, and this is what she asked of him:"What was it that drove you from home, and what brought you to thisplace?""A champion met my father, and took three teeth from him and put hishead in the dirt. I am looking for that man, to find him alive or dead.""That was the Green Knight from Terrible Valley. He is the man who tookthe three teeth from your father. I am three hundred years living inthis place, and there is not a year of the three hundred in which threehundred heroes, fresh, young, and noble, have not passed on the way toTerrible Valley, and never have I seen one coming back, and each of themhad the look of a man better than you. And now where are you going,Arthur?""I am on the same journey with my brother.""Where are you going, Lawn Dyarrig?""I am going with these as a servant," said Lawn Dyarrig."God's help to you, it's bad clothing that's on your body," said thewoman. "And now I will speak to Ur. A day and a year since a championpassed this way. He wore a suit as good as was ever above ground. I hada daughter sewing there in the open window. He came outside, put afinger under her girdle, and took her with him. Her father followedstraightway to save her, but I have never seen daughter nor father fromthat day to this. That man was the Green Knight of Terrible Valley. Heis better than all the men that could stand on a field a mile in lengthand a mile in breadth. If you take my advice you'll turn back and gohome to your father."'Tis how she vexed Ur with this talk, and he made a vow to himself to goon. When Ur did not agree to turn home, the woman said to Lawn Dyarrig,"Go back to my chamber. you'll find in it the apparel of a hero."He went back, and there was not a bit of the apparel he did not go intowith a spring."You may be able to do something now," said the woman, when Lawn Dyarrigcame to the front. "Go back to my chamber and search through all the oldswords. You will find one at the bottom. Take that."He found the old sword, and at the first shake that he gave he knockedseven barrels of rust out of it. after the second shake it was as brightas when made."You may be able to do well with that," said the woman. "Go out, now, tothat stable abroad, and take the slim white steed that is in it. Thatone will never stop nor halt in any place till he brings you to theEastern World. If you like, take these two men behind you. if not, letthem walk. But I think it is useless for you to have them at all withyou."Lawn Dyarrig went out to the stable, took the slim white steed, mounted,rode to the front, and catching the two brothers, planted them on thehorse behind him."Now, Lawn Dyarrig," said the woman, "this horse will never stop till hestands on the little white meadow in the Eastern World. When he stops,you'll come down, and cut the turf under his beautiful right frontfoot."The horse started from the door, and at every leap he crossed sevenhills and valleys, seven castles with villages, acres, roods, and oddperches. He could overtake the whirlwind before him seven hundred timesbefore the whirlwind behind him could overtake him once. Early in theafternoon of the next day he was in the Eastern World. When hedismounted, Lawn Dyarrig cut the sod from under the foot of the slimwhite steed, in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, andTerrible Valley was down under him there. What he did next was totighten the reins on the neck of the steed and let him go home."Now," said Lawn Dyarrig to his brothers, "which would you rather bedoing making a basket or twisting gads (withes)?""We would rather be making a basket. our help is among ourselves,"answered they.Ur and Arthur went at the basket and Lawn Dyarrig at twisting the gads.When Lawn Dyarrig came to the opening with the gads all twisted and madeinto one, they hadn't the ribs of the basket in the ground yet."Oh, then, haven't ye anything done but that?""Stop your mouth," said Ur, "or we'll make a mortar of your head on thenext stone.""To be kind to one another is the best for us," said Lawn Dyarrig. "I'llmake the basket."While they'd be putting one rod in the basket he had the basketfinished."Oh, brother," said they, "you are a quick workman."They had not called him brother since they left home till that moment."Who will go in the basket now?" said Lawn Dyarrig when it was finishedand the gad tied to it."Who but me?" said Ur. "I am sure, brothers, if I see anything tofrighten me you'll draw me up.""We will," said the other two.He went in, but had not gone far when he cried to pull him up again."By my father, and the tooth of my father, and by all that is in Erin,dead or alive, I would not give one other sight on Terrible Valley!" hecried, when he stepped out of the basket."Who will go now?" said Lawn Dyarrig."Who will go but me?" answered Arthur.Whatever length Ur went, Arthur didn't go the half of it."By my father, and the tooth of my father, I wouldn't give another lookat Terrible Valley for all that's in Erin, dead or alive!""I will go now," said Lawn Dyarrig, "and as I put no foul play on you, Ihope ye'll not put foul play on me.""We will not, indeed," said they.Whatever length the other two went, Lawn Dyarrig didn't go the half ofit, till he stepped out of the basket and went down on his own feet. Itwas not far he had travelled in Terrible Valley when he met sevenhundred heroes guarding the country."In what place here has the Green King his castle?" asked he of theseven hundred."What sort of a sprisawn goat or sheep from Erin are you?" asked they."If we had a hold of you, the two arms of me, that's a question youwould not put a second time. but if we haven't you, we'll not be solong."They faced Lawn Dyarrig then and attacked him. but he went through themlike a hawk or a raven through small birds. He made a heap of theirfeet, a heap of their heads, and a castle of their arms.After that he went his way walking, and had not gone far when he came toa spring. "I'll have a drink before I go further," thought he. With thathe stooped down and took a drink of the water. When he had drunk he layon the ground and fell asleep.Now, there wasn't a morning that the lady in the Green Knight's castledidn't wash in the water of that spring, and she sent a maid for thewater each time. Whatever part of the day it was when Lawn Dyarrig fellasleep, he was sleeping in the morning when the girl came. She thoughtit was dead the man was, and she was so in dread of him that she wouldnot come near the spring for a long time. At last she saw he was asleep,and then she took the water. Her mistress was complaining of her forbeing so long."Do not blame me," said the maid. "I am sure that if it was yourselfthat was in my place you'd not come back so soon.""How so?" asked the lady."The finest hero that ever a woman laid eyes on is sleeping at thespring.""That's a thing that cannot be till Lawn Dyarrig comes to the age of ahero. When that time comes he'll be sleeping at the spring.""He is in it now," said the girl.The lady did not stop to get any drop of the water on herself, but ranquickly from the castle. When she came to the spring she roused LawnDyarrig. If she found him lying, she left him standing. She smotheredhim with kisses, drowned him with tears, dried him with garments of finesilk and with her own hair. Herself and himself locked arms and walkedinto the castle of the Green Knight. After that they were inviting eachother with the best food and entertainment till the middle of thefollowing day. Then the lady said:"When the Green Knight bore me away from my father and mother he broughtme straight to this castle, but I put him under bonds not to marry mefor seven years and a day, and he cannot. still, I must serve him. Whenhe goes fowling he spends three days away and the next three days athome. This is the day for him to come back, and for me to prepare hisdinner. There is no stir that you or I have made here to day but thatbrass head beyond there will tell of it.""It is equal to you what it tells," said Lawn Dyarrig, "only make readya clean long chamber for me."She did so, and he went back into it. Herself rose up then to preparedinner for the Green Knight. When he came, she welcomed him as everyday. She left down his food before him, and he sat to take his dinner.He was sitting with knife and fork in hand when the brass head spoke."I thought when I saw you taking food and drink with your wife that youhad the blood of a man in you. If you could see that sprisawn of a goator sheep out of Erin taking meat and drink with her all day, what wouldyou do?""Oh, my suffering and sorrow!" cried the knight. "I'll never takeanother bite or sup till I eat some of his liver and heart. Let threehundred heroes, fresh and young, go back and bring his heart to me, withthe liver and lights, till I eat them."The three hundred heroes went, and hardly were they behind in thechamber when Lawn Dyarrig had them all dead in one heap."He must have some exercise to delay my men, they are so long away,"said the knight. "Let three hundred more heroes go for his heart, withthe liver and lights, and bring them here to me."The second three hundred went, and as they were entering the chamberLawn Dyarrig was making a heap of them, till the last one was inside,where there were two heaps."He has some way of coaxing my men to delay," said the knight. "Do yougo now, three hundred of my savage hirelings, and bring him." The threehundred savage hirelings went, and Lawn Dyarrig let every man of thementer before he raised a hand, then he caught the bulkiest of them allby the two ankles, and began to wallop the others with him, and hewalloped them till he drove the life out of the two hundred andninety nine. The bulkiest one was worn to the shin bones that LawnDyarrig held in his two hands. The Green Knight, who thought LawnDyarrig was coaxing the men, called out then, "Come down, my men, andtake dinner.""I'll be with you," said Lawn Dyarrig, "and have the best food in thehouse, and I'll have the best bed in the house. God not be good to youfor it, either."He went down to the Green Knight, and took the food from before him andput it before himself. Then he took the lady, set her on his own knee,and he and she went on eating. After dinner he put his finger under hergirdle, took her to the best chamber in the castle, and stood on guardupon it till morning. Before dawn the lady said to Lawn Dyarrig:"If the Green Knight strikes the pole of combat first, he'll win theday. if you strike first, you'll win if you do what I tell you. TheGreen Knight has so much enchantment that if he sees it is going againsthim the battle is, he'll rise like a fog in the air, come down in thesame form, strike you, and make a green stone of you. When yourself andhimself are going out to fight in the morning, cut a sod a perch long,in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. you'll leave the sod onthe next little hillock you meet. When the Green Knight is coming downand is ready to strike, give him a blow with the sod. You'll make agreen stone of him."As early as the dawn Lawn Dyarrig rose and struck the pole of combat.The blow that he gave did not leave calf, foal, lamb, kid, or childwaiting for birth, without turning them five times to the left and fivetimes to the right."What do you want?" asked the knight."All that's in your kingdom to be against me the first quarter of theday, and yourself the second quarter."You have not left in the kingdom now but myself, and it is early enoughfor you that I'll be at you."The knight faced him, and they went at each other, and fought till latein the day. The battle was strong against Lawn Dyarrig, when the ladystood in the door of the castle."Increase on your blows and increase on your courage," cried she. "Thereis no woman here but myself to wail over you, or to stretch you beforeburial."When the knight heard the voice he rose in the air like a lump of fog.As he was coming down Lawn Dyarrig struck him with the sod on the rightside of his breast, and made a green stone of him.The lady rushed out then, and whatever welcome she had for Lawn Dyarrigthe first time, she had twice as much now. Herself and himself went intothe castle, and spent that night very comfortably. In the morning theyrose early, and collected all the gold, utensils, and treasures. LawnDyarrig found the three teeth of his father in a pocket of the GreenKnight, and took them. He and the lady brought all the riches to wherethe basket was. "If I send up this beautiful lady," thought LawnDyarrig, "she may be taken from me by my brothers. if I remain belowwith her, she may be taken from me by people here." He put her in thebasket, and she gave him a ring so that they might know each other ifthey met. He shook the gad, and she rose in the basket.When Ur saw the basket, he thought, "What's above let it be above, andwhat's below let it stay where it is.""I'll have you as wife for ever for myself," said he to the lady."I put you under bonds," says she, "not to lay a hand on me for a dayand three years.""That itself would not be long even if twice the time," said Ur.The two brothers started home with the lady. on the way Ur found thehead of an old horse with teeth in it, and took them, saying, "Thesewill be my father's three teeth."They travelled on, and reached home at last. Ur would not have left atooth in his father's mouth, trying to put in the three that he hadbrought. but the father stopped him.Lawn Dyarrig, left in Terrible Valley, began to walk around for himself.He had been walking but one day when whom should he meet but the ladShort clothes, and he saluted him. "By what way can I leave TerribleValley?" asked Lawn Dyarrig."If I had a grip on you that's what you wouldn't ask me a second time,"said Short clothes."If you haven't touched me, you will before you are much older.""If you do, you will not treat me as you did all my people and mymaster.""I'll do worse to you than I did to them," said Lawn Dyarrig.They caught each other then, one grip under the arm and one on theshoulder. 'Tis not long they were wrestling when Lawn Dyarrig hadShort clothes on the earth, and he gave him the five thin tyings dearand tight."You are the best hero I have ever met," said Short clothes. "give mequarter for my soul spare me. When I did not tell you of my own will, Imust tell in spite of myself.""It is as easy for me to loosen you as to tie you," said Lawn Dyarrig,and he freed him."Since you are not dead now," said Short clothes, "there is no deathallotted to you. I'll find a way for you to leave Terrible Valley. Goand take that old bridle hanging there beyond and shake it. whateverbeast comes and puts its head into the bridle will carry you."Lawn Dyarrig shook the bridle, and a dirty, shaggy little foal came andput its head in the bridle. Lawn Dyarrig mounted, dropped the reins onthe foal's neck, and let him take his own choice of roads. The foalbrought Lawn Dyarrig out by another way to the upper world, and took himto Erin. Lawn Dyarrig stopped some distance from his father's castle,and knocked at the house of an old weaver."Who are you?" asked the old man."I am a weaver," said Lawn Dyarrig."What can you do?""I can spin for twelve and twist for twelve.""This is a very good man," said the old weaver to his sons, "let us tryhim."The work they had been doing for a year he had done in one hour. Whendinner was over the old man began to wash and shave, and his two sonsbegan to do the same."Why is this?" asked Lawn Dyarrig."Haven't you heard that Ur, son of the King, is to marry to night thewoman that he took from the Green Knight of Terrible Valley?""I have not," said Lawn Dyarrig. "as all are going to the wedding, Isuppose I may go without offence?""Oh, you may," said the weaver. "there will be a hundred thousandwelcomes before you.""Are there any linen sheets within?""There are," said the weaver."It is well to have bags ready for yourself and two sons."The weaver made bags for the three very quickly. They went to thewedding. Lawn Dyarrig put what dinner was on the first table into theweaver's bag, and sent the old man home with it. The food of the secondtable he put in the eldest son's bag, filled the second son's bag fromthe third table, and sent the two home.The complaint went to Ur that an impudent stranger was taking all thefood."It is not right to turn any man away," said the bridegroom, "but ifthat stranger does not mind he will be thrown out of the castle.""Let me look at the face of the disturber," said the bride."Go and bring the fellow who is troubling the guests," said Ur to theservants.Lawn Dyarrig was brought right away, and stood before the bride, whofilled a glass with wine and gave it to him. Lawn Dyarrig drank half thewine, and dropped in the ring which the lady had given him in TerribleValley.When the bride took the glass again the ring went of itself with oneleap on to her finger. She knew then who was standing before her."This is the man who conquered the Green Knight and saved me fromTerrible Valley," said she to the King of Erin. "this is Lawn Dyarrig,your son."Lawn Dyarrig took out the three teeth and put them in his father'smouth. They fitted there perfectly, and grew into their old place. TheKing was satisfied, and as the lady would marry no man but Lawn Dyarrig,he was the bridegroom."I must give you a present," said the bride to the Queen. "Here is abeautiful scarf which you are to wear as a girdle this evening."The Queen put the scarf round her waist."Tell me now," said the bride to the Queen, "who was Ur's father.""What father could he have but his own father, the King of Erin?""Tighten, scarf," said the bride.That moment the Queen thought that her head was in the sky and the lowerhalf of her body down deep in the earth."Oh, my grief and my woe!" cried the Queen."Answer my question in truth, and the scarf will stop squeezing you. Whowas Ur's father?""The gardener," said the Queen."Whose son is Arthur?""The King's son.""Tighten, scarf," said the bride.If the Queen suffered before, she suffered twice as much this time, andscreamed for help."Answer me truly, and you'll be without pain. if not, death will be onyou this minute. Whose son is Arthur?""The swineherd's.""Who is the King's son?""The King has no son but Lawn Dyarrig.""Tighten, scarf."The scarf did not tighten, and if the Queen had been commanding it a dayand a year it would not have tightened, for the Queen told the truththat time. When the wedding was over, the King gave Lawn Dyarrig halfhis kingdom, and made Ur and Arthur his servants.JEREMIAH CURTIN.