One day we, the Fianna, were all assembled, generous Fionn and all of usthat lived were there. we were hunting on a misty morning nigh thebordering shores of Loch Lein, where through fragrant trees of sweetestblossoms, and the mellow music of birds at all times, we aroused thehornless deer of the best bounding, course, and agility. our hounds andall our dogs were close after in full chase.'Twas not long till we saw, westwards, a fleet rider advancing towardsus, a young maiden of most beautiful appearance, on a slender whitesteed of swiftest power. We all ceased from the chase on seeing the formof the royal maid. 'twas a surprise to Fionn and the Fianns, they neverbeheld a woman equal in beauty. A royal crown was on her head, and abrown mantle of precious silk, spangled with stars of red gold, coveringher shoes down to the grass. A gold ring was hanging down from eachyellow curl of her golden hair. her eyes were blue, clear, andcloudless, like a dewdrop on the top of the grass. Redder were hercheeks than the rose, fairer was her visage than the swan upon the wave,and more sweet was the taste of her balsam lips than honey mingledthrough red wine. A garment, wide, long, and smooth, covered the whitesteed. there was a comely saddle of red gold, and her right hand held abridle with a golden bit. Four shoes, well shaped, were under him, ofthe yellow gold of the purest quality. a silver wreath was on the backof his head, and there was not in the world a steed better.She came to the presence of Fionn, and spoke with a voice sweet andgentle, and she said, "O King of the Fianna, long and distant is myjourney now.""Who art thou thyself, O youthful princess! of fairest form, beauty, andcountenance? Relate to us the cause of thy story, thine own name and thycountry.""Golden headed Niamh is my name, O sage Fionn of the great hosts. Beyondthe women of the world I have won esteem. I am the fair daughter of theKing of Youth.""Relate to us, O amiable princess, what caused thee to come afar acrossthe sea is it thy consort has forsaken thee, or what is the afflictionthat is on thyself?""'Tis not my husband that went from me. and as yet I have not beenspoken of with any man, O King of the Fianna of highest repute. butaffection and love I have given to thy son.""Which of my children is he, O blooming daughter, to whom thou hastgiven love, or yet affection? Do not conceal from us now the cause, andrelate to us thy case, O woman.""I will tell thee that, O Fionn! Thy noble son of the well temperedarms, high spirited Oisin of the powerful hands, is the champion that Iam now speaking of.""What is the reason that thou gavest love, O beautiful daughter of theglossy hair, to my own son beyond all, and multitudes of high lordsunder the sun?""'Tis not without cause, O King of the Fianna! I came afar for him butreports I heard of his prowess, the goodness of his person and his mien."Many a son of a king and a high chief gave me affection and perpetuallove. I never consented to any man till I gave love to noble Oisin.""By that hand on thee, O Patrick, though it is not shameful to me as astory, there was not a limb of me but was in love with the beautifuldaughter of the glossy hair."I, Oisin, took her hand in mine, and said in speech of sweetest tone, "Atrue, gentle welcome before thee, O young princess, to this country!'Tis thou art the brightest and the fairest of form, 'tis thee I preferas wife, thou art my choice beyond the women of the world, O mild starof loveliest countenance!""Obligations unresisted by true heroes, O generous Oisin, I put uponthee to come with myself now upon my steed till we arrive at the 'Landof Youth.' It is the most delightful country to be found, of greatestrepute under the sun, trees drooping with fruit, and blossom and foliagegrowing on the tops of boughs. Abundant, there, are honey and wine andeverything that eye has beheld. there will not come decline on thee withlapse of time. death or decay thou wilt not see. Thou wilt get feasts,playing, and drink. thou wilt get melodious music on the harp strings.thou wilt get silver and gold. thou wilt get also many jewels. Thou wiltget the royal diadem of the 'King of Youth,' which he never yet gave toany person under the sun. 'twill protect thee both night and day, inbattle, in tumult, and in rough conflict. Thou wilt get a fitting coatof protecting mail, and a gold headed sword apt for strokes, from whichno person ever escaped alive who once saw the sharp weapon. Thou wiltget everything I promised thee, and delights, also, which I may notmention. thou wilt get beauty, strength, and power, and I myself will bethy wife.""No refusal will I give from me," said I, "O charming queen of thegolden curls! Thou art my choice above the women of the world, and Iwill go with willingness to the 'Land of Youth.'"On the back of the steed we went together. Before me sat the virgin. shesaid, "Oisin, let us remain quiet till we reach the mouth of the greatsea."Then arose the steed swiftly. when we arrived on the borders of thestrand he shook himself then to pace forward, and neighed three timesaloud.When Fionn and the Fianna saw the steed travelling swiftly, facing thegreat tide, they raised three shouts of mourning and grief."O Oisin!" said Fionn slowly and sorrowfully, "woe it is to me that thouart going from me. I have not a hope that thou wilt ever again come backto me victorious."His form and beauty changed, and showers of tears flowed down, till theywet his breast and his bright visage, and he said, "My woe art thou, OOisin, in going from me!"O Patrick, 'twas a melancholy story our parting from each other in thatplace, the parting of the father from his own son 'tis mournful, weak,and faint to be relating it! I kissed my father sweetly and gently, andthe same affection I got from him. I bade adieu to all the Fianna, andthe tears flowed down my cheeks. We turned our backs to the land and ourfaces directly due west. the smooth sea ebbed before us and filled inbillows after us. We saw wonders in our travels, cities, courts, andcastles, lime white mansions and fortresses, brilliant summer houses andpalaces. We also saw, by our sides, a hornless fawn leaping nimbly, anda red eared white dog, urging it boldly in the chase. We beheld also,without fiction, a young maid on a brown steed, a golden apple in herright hand, and she going on the top of the waves. We saw after her ayoung rider on a white steed, under a purple, crimson mantle of satin,and a gold headed sword in his right hand."Who are yon two whom I see, O gentle princess? Tell me the meaning, ofthat woman of most beautiful countenance and the comely rider of thewhite steed.""Heed not what thou wilt see, O gentle Oisin, nor what thou hast yetseen. there is in them but nothing, till we reach the land of the 'Kingof Youth.'"We saw from us afar a sunny palace of beautiful front. its form andappearance were the most beauteous that were to be found in the world."What exceeding fine royal mansion, and also the best that eye hathseen, is this that we are travelling near to, or who is high chief ofthat place?""The daughter of the King of the 'Land of Life' is Queen, yet in thatfortress she was taken by Fomhor Builleach, of Dromloghach, with violentstrength of arms and activity. Obligation she put upon the brave neverto make her a wife till she got a champion or true hero to stand battlewith him hand to hand.""Take success and blessings, O golden headed Niamh. I have never heardbetter music than the gentle voice of thy sweet mouth. great grief to usis a woman of her condition. I will go now to visit her to the fortress,and it may be for us it is fated that that great hero should fall by me,in feats of activity as is wont to me."We went then into the fortress. To us came the youthful Queen. Equal insplendour was she to the sun, and she bade us a hundred welcomes.There was apparel of yellow silk on the Queen of excellent beauty. Herchalk white skin was like the swan on the wave, and her cheeks were ofthe colour of the rose. Her hair was of a golden hue, her blue eyesclear and cloudless. her honey lips of the colour of the berries, andher slender brows of loveliest form.Then we there sat down, each of us on a chair of gold. There was laidout for us abundance of food and drinking horns filled with beer. Whenwe had taken a sufficiency of food and much sweet drinking wines, thenspoke the mild young princess, and thus said she, "Hearken to meawhile." She told us the knowledge and cause of her tale, and the tearsflowed down her cheeks. She said, "My return is not to my own countrywhilst the great giant shall be alive.""Be silent, O young princess! Give o'er thy grief and do not mourn, andI give to thee my hand that the giant of slaughter shall fall by me!""There's not a champion now to be found of greatest repute under the sunto give battle hand to hand to the bold giant of the hard blows.""I tell to thee, O gentle queen, I am not daunted at his coming to meetme. Unless he fall by me, by the strength of my arms, I will fall myselfin thy defence."'Twas not long till we saw approaching the powerful giant that was mostrepulsive. A load was on him of the skins of deer, and an iron bar inhis hand. He did not salute or bow to us, but looked into thecountenance of the young maiden, proclaimed battle and great conflict,and I myself went to meet him. During three nights and three days wewere in the great contest. though powerful was he, the valiant giant, Ibeheaded him without delay.When the two young maidens saw the great giant lying motionless, weakand low, they uttered three joyful cries, with great boasting andmerriment.We then went to the fortress, and I was bruised, weak, and feeble,shedding blood in great abundance coming closely out of my wounds. Thedaughter of the "King of the Living" came in truth to relieve myself.She put balm and balsam in my wounds, and I was whole after her.We consumed our feast with pleasure, and then we were merry after. Inthe fortress were prepared for us warm beds of the down of birds. Weburied the great man in a deep sod grave, wide and clear. I raised hisflag and monument, and I wrote his name in Ogham Craobh.On the morrow, at the appearance of day, we awoke out of our slumbers."It is time for us," said the daughter of the King, "to go without delayto our own land."We prepared ourselves without a stay, and we took our leave of thevirgin. We were sorrowful and sad after her, and not less after us wasthe refulgent maid.We turned our backs on the fortress, and our horse under us in fullspeed, and swifter was the white steed than March wind on the mountainsummit. Ere long the sky darkened and the wind arose in every point, thegreat sea lit up strongly, and sight of the sun was not to be found. Wegazed awhile on the clouds and on the stars that were under gloom. Thetempest abated and the wind, and Phoebus brightened o'er our heads.We beheld by our side a most delightful country, under full bloom, andplains, beautiful, smooth, and fine, and a royal fortress of surpassingbeauty. Not a colour that eye has beheld of rich blue, green, and white,or purple, crimson, and of yellow, but was in this royal mansion that Iam describing. There were at the other side of the fortress radiantsummer houses and palaces made, all of precious stones, by the hands ofskilful men and great artists.Ere long we saw approaching from the fortress to meet us three fiftiesof champions of best agility, appearance, fame, and of highest repute."What beauteous country is that, O gentle daughter of the golden locks?Of best aspect that the eye has seen. or is it the 'Land of Youth'?""It is, truly, O generous Oisin! I have not told you a lie concerningit. there is nothing I promised thyself but is manifest to thee forever."To us came after that a hundred maids of exquisite beauty,under garments of silk filled with gold, welcoming me to their owncountry. We saw again approaching a multitude of glittering brighthosts, and a noble, great, and powerful King of matchless grace, form,and countenance. There was a yellow shirt of silken satin and a brightgolden garment over it. there was a sparkling crown of gold, radiant andshining, upon his head. We saw coming after him the young Queen ofhighest repute, and fifty virgins sweet and mild, of most beautifulform, in her company. When all arrived in one spot, then courteouslyspoke the "King of Youth," and said, "This is Oisin, the son of Fionn,the gentle consort of 'Golden headed Niamh'!"He took me then by the hand and said aloud to the hearing of the host,"O brave Oisin! O son of the King! A hundred thousand welcomes to you!This country into which thou comest, I'll not conceal its tidings fromyou, in truth, long and durable is your life, and thou thyself shalt beever young. There's not a delight on which the heart hath mused but isin this land awaiting thee. O Oisin! believe me in truth, for I am Kingof the 'Land of Youth'! This is the gentle Queen and my own daughter,the Golden headed Niamh, who went over the smooth seas for thee to beher consort for ever."I gave thanks to the King and I bowed down to the gentle Queen. norstayed we there, but proceeded soon, till we reached the royal mansionof the "King of Youth." There came the nobles of the fine fortress, bothmen and women, to meet us. there was a feast and banquet continuouslythere for ten nights and ten days.I espoused "Golden headed Niamh," O Patrick from Rome of white croziers!That is how I went to the "Land of Youth," tho' woeful and grievous tome to relate. I had, by Golden headed Niamh, of children of surpassingbeauty and bloom, of best form, shape, and countenance, two young sonsand a gentle daughter. I spent a time protracted in length, threehundred years and more, until I thought 'twould be my desire to seeFionn and the Fianna alive. I asked leave of the King and of my kindspouse, Golden headed Niamh, to go to Erin back again to see Fionn andhis great host."Thou wilt get leave from me," said the gentle daughter, "though 'tis asorrowful tale to me to hear you mention it, lest thou mayest not comeagain in your life to my own land, O victorious Oisin!""What do we dread, O blooming Queen? Whilst the white steed is at myservice he will teach me the way with ease, and will return safe back tothyself.""Remember, O Oisin! what I am saying. If thou layest foot on levelground thou shalt not come again for ever to this fine land in which Iam myself. I say to thee again without guile, if thou alightest once offthe white steed thou wilt never more come to the 'Land of Youth,' Ogolden Oisin of the warlike arms! I say to thee for the third time, ifthou alightest off the steed thyself thou wilt be an old man, witheredand blind, without activity, without pleasure, without run, withoutleap. 'Tis a woe to me, O loving Oisin, that thou ever goest to greenErin. 'tis not now as it has been. and thou never shalt see Fionn of thehosts. There is not now in all Erin but a father of orders and hosts ofsaints. O loving Oisin, here is my kiss. thou wilt never return to the'Land of Youth'!"I looked up into her countenance with compassion, and streams of tearsran from my eyes. O Patrick! thou wouldst have pitied her tearing thehair off the golden head. She put me under strict injunctions to go andcome without touching the lea, and said to me, by virtue of their power,if I broke them that I'd never return safe. I promised her each thing,without a lie, that I would fulfil what she said to me. I went on theback of the white steed and bade farewell to the people of the fortress.I kissed my gentle consort, and sorrowful was I in parting from her. mytwo sons and my young daughter were under grief, shedding tears. Iprepared myself for travelling, and I turned my back on the "Land ofYouth." The steed ran swiftly under me, as he had done with me and"Golden headed Niamh."On my coming, then, into the country, I looked closely in everydirection. I thought then, in truth, that the tidings of Fionn were notto be found. 'Twas not long for me, nor tedious, till I saw from thewest approaching me a great troop of mounted men and women, and theycame into my presence. They saluted me kindly and courteously, andsurprise seized every one of them on seeing the bulk of my own person,my form, my appearance, and my countenance. I myself asked then of them,did they hear if Fionn was alive, or did anyone else of the Fianna live,or what disaster had swept them away?"We have heard tell of Fionn, for strength, for activity, and forprowess, that there never was an equal for him in person, in character,and in mien. There is many a book written down by the melodious sweetsages of the Gaels which we, in truth, are unable to relate to thee, ofthe deeds of Fionn and of the Fianna. We heard that Fionn had a son ofbrightest beauty and form. that there came a young maiden for him, andthat he went with her to the 'Land of Youth.'"When I myself heard that announcement that Fionn did not live, or any ofthe Fianna, I was seized with weariness and great sorrow, and I was fullof melancholy after them! I did not stop on my course, quick and smartwithout any delay, till I set my face straightforward to Almhuin ofgreat exploits in broad Leinster. Great was my surprise there that I didnot see the court of Fionn of the hosts. there was not in its place, intruth, but weeds, chick weeds, and nettles. Alas, O Patrick! and alas,my grief! A miserable journey it was to me, without the tidings of Fionnor the Fianna. it left me through life under pain. After I left Almhuinof Leinster, there was not a residence where the Fianna had been, but Isearched accurately without any delay. On my passing through the Glen ofthe Thrushes I saw a great assembly there, three hundred men and morewere before me in the glen. One of the assembly spoke, and he said witha loud voice, "Come to our relief, O kingly champion, and deliver usfrom difficulty!"I then came forward, and the host had a large flag of marble. the weightof the flag was down on them, and to uphold it they were unable! Thosethat were under the flag below were being oppressed, weakly. by theweight of the great load many of them lost their senses. One of thestewards spoke and said, "O princely young hero, forthwith relieve myhost, or not one of them will be alive!" 'Tis a shameful deed that itshould now be said, and the number of men that is there, that thestrength of the host is unable to lift the flag with great power. IfOscur, the son of Oisin, lived, he would take this flag in his righthand. he would fling it in a throw over the host. It is not my custom tospeak falsehood.I lay upon my right breast and I took the flag in my hand. with thestrength and activity of my limbs I sent it seven perches from itsplace! With the force of the very large flag the golden girth broke onthe white steed. I came down full suddenly on the soles of my two feeton the lea. No sooner did I come down than the white steed took fright.He went then on his way, and I stood in sorrow, both weak and feeble. Ilost the sight of my eyes, my form, my countenance, and my vigour. I wasan old man, poor and blind, without strength, understanding, or esteem.Patrick! there is to thee my story, as it occurred to myself, without alie, my going and my adventures in certain, and my returning from the"Land of Youth."_From "Ossianic Poems."__Edited by_ JOHN O'DALY.