Heinz was lazy, and although he had nothing else to do but to drive hisgoat out to the pasture every day, he nevertheless groaned every eveningwhen he returned home after finishing his day's work."It is in truth a heavy burden," he said, "and a tiresome job, to drivesuch a goat out to the field year in and year out until late in the fall.If I could only lie down and sleep at it! But no, I must keep my eyes openso it won't damage the young trees, or force its way through the hedgeinto a garden, or even run away altogether. How can I get some rest andenjoy life?"He sat down, collected his thoughts, and considered how he could liftthis burden from his shoulders. For a long time his thoughts led tonothing, but suddenly it was as if scales were removed from his eyes."I know what I will do," he shouted. "I will marry Fat Trina. She toohas a goat, and she can drive mine out with hers, and then I shall nolonger have to torment myself."So Heinz got up, set his weary limbs into motion, and walked across thestreet, for it was no further than that, to where Fat Trina's parentslived, and asked for the hand in marriage of their industrious andvirtuous daughter.Her parents did not think about it for long. "Birds of a feather, flocktogether," they thought, and gave their consent.So Fat Trina became Heinz's wife, and drove out both of the goats.Heinz now enjoyed life, having no work to rest from, but his own laziness.He went out with her only now and then, saying, "I'm doing this so thatafterwards I will enjoy resting more. Otherwise I shall lose all feelingfor it."However, Fat Trina was no less lazy."Dear Heinz," she said one day, "why should we make our lives somiserable, ruining the best days of our youth, when there is no need forit? The two goats disturb our best sleep every morning with theirbleating. Wouldn't it be better for us to give them to our neighbor, whowill give us a beehive for them? We will put the beehive in a sunny placebehind the house, and then not give it any more thought. Bees do not haveto be taken care of, nor driven into the field. They fly out and findtheir way home again by themselves, and they collect honey without anyeffort at all on our part.""You have spoken like a sensible woman," replied Heinz. "We will carryout your proposal without delay. And furthermore, honey tastes better andis more nourishing than goat's milk, and it keeps longer too."The neighbor willingly gave them a beehive for the two goats. The beesflew tirelessly in and out from early morning until late evening, fillingthe hive with the best honey. Thus that fall time, Heinz was able to takeout a whole jugful.They placed the jug on a shelf on their bedroom wall. Fearing that itmight be stolen, or that the mice might get into it, Trina brought in astout hazel stick and put it beside her bed, so that she would be able toreach it without having to get up, and then from her place in bed driveaway the uninvited guests.Lazy Heinz did not like to get out of bed before noon. "He who risesearly," he would say, "wastes his wealth."One morning when he was still lying in the feathers in broad daylight,resting from his long sleep, he said to his wife, "Women are fond ofsweets, and you have been snacking on the honey. It would be better for usto exchange it for a goose with a young gosling, before you eat it allup.""But not before we have a child to take care of them." replied Trina.Am I to torment myself with the young geese, wasting all my energy on themfor no reason?""Do you think," said Heinz, "that the boy will tend geese? Nowadayschildren no longer obey. They do just as they please, because they thinkthat they are smarter than their parents, just like that servant who wassupposed to look for the cow and chased after three blackbirds.""Oh," replied Trina, "he will get it if he does not do what I say. Iwill take a stick and tan his hide with more blows than can be counted.""See here, Heinz," she shouted in her fervor, seizing the stick thatshe intended to use to drive away the mice. "See here! This is how I willbeat him."She struck forth, unfortunately hitting the jug of honey above the bed.The jug struck against the wall and fell down in pieces. The fine honeyflowed out onto the floor."There lies the goose with the young gosling," said Heinz. "And they donot need to be tended. But it is lucky that the jug did not fall on myhead. We have every reason to be satisfied with our fate."Then noticing that there was still some honey in one of the pieces ofthe jug, he reached out for it, saying quite happily, "Wife, let us enjoythe leftovers, and then we will rest a little from the fright we have had.What does it matter if we get up a little later than usual? The day willbe long enough.""Yes," answered Trina, "there is always time enough. You know, thesnail was once invited to a wedding and started on his way, but arrived atthe child's baptism. In front of the house it fell over the fence, andsaid, 'Haste makes waste.'"