Once upon a time there was a woman named Catherine, and she was as lazy as a clump of lead. Every day she went to the vineyard so as not to have to work at home. Here she did nothing at all, but just took her hoe, struck it into the ground, and said, "Dig, hoe!"Then she lay down and slept until dinnertime. Waking up hungry, she sat up a little, ate well, and then turned onto her other side and slept until evening when it was time to go home. She picked up her hoe and went home quickly, pretending to be sweating from hard work. At suppertime she once again ate well.One day her husband secretly followed her to the vineyard to see what she was actually doing. There he saw no sign of her work, nor his wife herself. He finally found her asleep beneath a large nut tree."Aha," he thought, "perhaps I can rid myself of this lazy beast in a clever way."He silently crept up to her, took out his pruning knife, and cut off her long braid without her noticing it. He then took her hoe and went home.Here he said to his children, who were still young, "If a woman without a braid and without a hoe comes and asks, 'Is your mother at home?' then just say 'Yes!'"With that he went into the mill and closed the door behind him.When the woman in the vineyard woke up around noon, she rubbed her eyes and shook her head. It felt different. She reached for her braid, but it wasn't there."This must not be me!" she thought. "When I went to sleep I had a braid. But I'll have to convince myself. I had a hoe as well!"When she could not find the hoe, she was stunned and called out, "No! In truth this isn't me! But before I run away I'll have to be sure!"With that she hurried home as quickly as a lazy, half asleep woman is able to walk.Walking along she said to herself again and again, "Is it me, or not?"Arriving at home she found the door locked, so she went to the window and knocked. The children immediately jumped up and saw the woman without a braid and without a hoe, just as their father had described.When the woman asked, "Is your mother at home?" they said, "Yes, yes!""So," she said to herself, "it is clear that I am not me. I must go and look for myself. I'll be easy to recognize, I have a long braid and and a hoe in the vineyard, and I am not at home."Thus she went out into the wide world to look for herself. She is still looking to this day, and she cannot find herself.In the evening when her husband came home from the mill and heard that such and such a woman had been there and then left, he said happily, "Praise God, who has redeemed me! I would a thousand times prefer to feed myself and my children by sweat of my own brow, than to have such a rotten carcass in my house any longer."