Elinas, King of Albania, to divert his grief for the death of his wife,amused himself with hunting. One day, at the chase, he went to a fountainto quench his thirst. As he approached it he heard the voice of a womansinging, and on coming to it he found there the beautiful fayPressina.After some time the fay bestowed her hand upon him, on the conditionthat he should never visit her at the time of her lying in. She had threedaughters at a birth: Melusina, Melior, and Palatina. Nathas, the king'sson by a former wife, hastened to convey the joyful tidings to hisfather, who, without reflection, flew to the chamber of the queen, andentered as she was bathing her daughters. Pressina, on seeing him, criedout that he had broken his word, and she must depart. And taking up herthree daughters, she disappeared.She retired to the Lost Island, so called because it was only by chanceany, even those who had repeatedly visited it, could find it. Here shereared her children, taking them every morning to a high mountain, whenceAlbania might be seen, and telling them that but for their father's breachof promise they might have lived happily in the distant land which theybeheld.When they were fifteen years of age, Melusina asked her motherparticularly of what their father had been guilty. On being informed ofit, she conceived the design of being revenged on him. Engaging hersisters to join in her plans, they set out for Albania. Arrived there,they took the king and all his wealth, and, by a charm, enclosed him in ahigh mountain, called Brandelois. On telling their mother what they haddone, she, to punish them for the unnatural action, condemned Melusina tobecome every Saturday a serpent, from the waist downwards, till she shouldmeet a man who would marry her under the condition of never seeing her ona Saturday, and should keep his promise. She influenced other judgementson her two sisters, less severe in proportion to their guilt.Melusina now went roaming through the world in search of the man whowas to deliver her. She passed through the Black Forest, and that ofArdennes, and at last she arrived in the forest of Colombiers, in Poitou,where all the fays of the neighborhood came before her, telling her theyhad been waiting for her to reign in that place.Raymond having accidentally killed the count, his uncle, by theglancing aside of his boar spear, was wandering by night in the forest ofColombiers. He arrived at a fountain that rose at the foot of a high rock.This fountain was called by the people the Fountain of Thirst, or theFountain of the Fays, on account of the many marvelous things which hadhappened at it.At the time, when Raymond arrived at the fountain, three ladies werediverting themselves there by the light of the moon, the principal ofwhich was Melusina. Her beauty and her amiable manners quickly won hislove. She soothed him, concealed the deed he had done, and married him, hepromising on his oath never to desire to see her on a Saturday. Sheassured him that a breach of his oath would forever deprive him of herwhom he so much loved, and be followed by the unhappiness of both forlife. Out of her great wealth she built for him, in the neighborhood ofthe Fountain of Thirst, where he first saw her, the castle of Lusignan.She also built La Rochelle, Cloitre Malliers, Mersent, and otherplaces.But destiny, that would have Melusina single, was incensed against her.The marriage was made unhappy by the deformity of the children born of onethat was enchanted. But still Raymond's love for the beauty that ravishedboth heart and eyes remained unshaken. Destiny renewed her attacks.Raymond's cousin had excited him to jealousy and to secret concealment, bymalicious suggestions of the purport of the Saturday retirement of thecountess. He hid himself. and then saw how the lovely form of Melusinaended below in a snake, gray and sky blue, mixed with white. But it wasnot horror that seized him at the sight, it was infinite anguish at thereflection that through his breach of faith he might lose his lovely wifeforever.Yet this misfortune had not speedily come on him, were it not that hisson, Geoffroi with the Tooth (a boar's tusk projected from his mouth), hadburned his brother Freimund, who would stay in the abbey of Malliers, withthe abbot and a hundred monks. At which the afflicted father, CountRaymond, when his wife Melusina was entering his closet to comfort him,broke out into these words against her, before all the courtiers whoattended her, "Out of my sight, thou pernicious snake and odious serpent!thou contaminator of my race!"Melusina's former anxiety was now verified, and the evil that had lainso long in ambush had now fearfully sprung on him and her. At thesereproaches she fainted away. and when at length she revived, full of theprofoundest grief, she declared to him that she must now depart from him,and, in obedience to a decree of destiny, fleet about the earth in painand suffering, as a specter, until the day of doom. and that only when oneof her race was to die at Lusignan would she become visible.Her words at parting were these, "But one thing will I say unto theebefore I part, that thou, and those who for more than a hundred yearsshall succeed thee, shall know that whenever I am seen to hover over thefair castle of Lusignan, then will it be certain that in that very yearthe castle will get a new lord. and though people may not perceive me inthe air, yet they will see me by the Fountain of Thirst. and thus shall itbe so long as the castle stand in honor and flourishing   especially onthe Friday before the lord of the castle shall die."Immediately, with wailing and loud lamentation, she left the castle ofLusignan, and has ever since existed as a specter of the night.Raymond died as a hermit on Monserrat.