Riccardo Capponi, a noble Florentine, having devoted himself in early life to trade, in the course of time realized a very handsome property. When advanced in years, he took his son, Vincenti, into partnership, and not long after gave up his whole mercantile concern into his hands. and falling into a bad state of health, owing either to his great exertions, or to his subsequent high living, he became unable to leave the house.His son, Vincenti, who was of an extremely avaricious disposition, finding his father continued to linger much beyond the period his covetous and ungrateful heart would have assigned him, and unwilling longer to support him, took measures, under pretense of obtaining for him better medical advice than he could at home provide, to have him conveyed to the city hospital.Yet his affairs were then in a flourishing state. and everything that he possessed he owed to his unhappy parent, whose age and infirmities, whose tears and entreaties, he alike disregarded.This unnatural son could not, however, contrive to conduct the matter so secretly as to elude the observation and the reproaches of all classes of people in the city. He at first tried to impose, both upon his friends and the public, by the false representations which he set on foot. but finding these could not avail him, he resolved, in order the better to disarm the popular voice against him, to send his own children with little presents to their grandfather.On one occasion he gave to his eldest boy, about six years of age, two fine cambric shirts, desiring him, early the next morning, to take them carefully to his poor grandfather in the hospital. The little boy, with an expression of great respect and tenderness in his countenance, promised that he would do so. and on his return the next day, his father, calling him into his presence, inquired whether he had delivered them safe into the hands of his grandfather."I only gave him one, father," replied the little boy."What!" exclaimed Vincenti, with an angry voice. "Did I not tell you both were for your grandfather?""Yes," returned the little fellow, with a steady and undaunted look, "but I thought that I would keep one of them for you, father, against the time when I shall have to send you, I hope, to the hospital.""How!" exclaimed Vincenti, "would you ever have the cruelty to send me there, my boy?""Why not?" retorted the lad. "Let him that does evil, expect evil in return. For you know you made your own father go there, old and ailing as he is, and he never did you any harm in his life, and do you think I shall not send you, when I am able? Indeed, father, I am resolved that I will. for, as I have said before, let him that does evil, expect evil in return."On hearing these words, Vincenti, giving signs of the utmost emotion, as if suddenly smitten by the hand of heaven, sorely repented of the heinous offence against humanity and justice which he had committed. He hastened himself to the hospital. he entreated his father's pardon on his knees, and had him conveyed instantly home. ever afterwards showing himself a gentle and obedient son, and frequently administering to his aged parent's wants with his own hands.This incident gave rise, throughout all Tuscany, to the well known proverb above mentioned, "Let him that does evil, expect evil in return" ( Chi la fa, l'aspetta ). and from Tuscany it passed into many other parts of Italy.