It was in the middle of winter, when the broad flakes of snow werefalling around, that a certain queen sat working at her window, theframe of which was made of fine black ebony. and, as she was looking outupon the snow, she pricked her finger, and three drops of blood fellupon it. Then she gazed thoughtfully down on the red drops whichsprinkled the white snow and said, "Would that my little daughter may beas white as that snow, as red as the blood, and as black as the ebonywindow frame!" And so the little girl grew up. her skin was a white assnow, her cheeks as rosy as blood, and her hair as black as ebony. andshe was called Snow White.But this queen died. and the king soon married another wife, who wasvery beautiful, but so proud that she could not bear to think that anyone could surpass her. She had a magical looking glass, to which sheused to go and gaze upon herself in it, and say "Tell me, glass, tell me true!Of all the ladies in the land,Who is fairest? tell me who?"And the glass answered, "Thou, Queen, art fairest in the land"But Snow White grew more and more beautiful. and when she was sevenyears old, she was as bright as the day, and fairer than the queenherself. Then the glass one day answered queen, when she went to consultit as usual "Thou, Queen, may'st fair and beauteous be,But Snow White is lovelier far than thee?"When the queen heard this she turned pale with rage and envy. andcalling to one of her servants said, "Take Snow White away into the widewood, that I may never see her more." Then the servant led the littlegirl away. but his heart melted when she begged him to spare her life,and he said, "I will not hurt thee, thou pretty child." So he left herthere alone. and though he thought it most likely that the wild beastswould tear her to pieces, he felt as if a great weight were taken offhis heart when he had made up his mind not to kill her, but leave her toher fate.Then poor Snow White wandered along through the wood in great fear. andthe wild beasts roared around, but none did her any harm. In the eveningshe came to a little cottage, and went in there to rest, for her wearyfeet would carry her no further. Everything was spruce and neat in thecottage: on the table was spread a white cloth, and there were sevenlittle plates with seven little loaves and seven little glasses withwine in them. and knives and forks laid in order, and by the wall stoodseven little beds. Then, as she was exceedingly hungry, she picked alittle piece off each loaf, and drank a very little wine out of eachglass. and after that she thought she would lie down and rest. So shetried all the little beds. and one was too long, and another was tooshort, till, at last, the seventh suited her. and there she laid herselfdown and went to sleep. Presently in came the masters of the cottage,who were seven little dwarfs that lived among the mountains, and dug andsearched about for gold. They lighted up their seven lamps, and sawdirectly that all was not right. The first said, "Who has been sittingon my stool?" The second, "Who has been eating off my plate?" The third,"Who has been picking at my bread?" The fourth, "Who has been meddlingwith my spoon?" The fifth, "Who has been handling my fork?" The sixth,"Who has been cutting with my knife?" The seventh, "Who has beendrinking my wine?" Then the first looked around and said, "Who has beenlying on my bed?" And the rest came running to him, and every one criedout that somebody had been upon his bed. But the seventh saw Snow White,and called upon his brethren to come and look at her. and they cried outwith wonder and astonishment, and brought their lamps and gazing uponher, they said, "Good heavens! what a lovely child she is!" And theywere delighted to see her, and took care not to waken her. and theseventh dwarf slept an hour with each of the other dwarfs in turn, tillthe night was gone.In the morning Snow White told them all her story, and they pitied her,and said if she would keep all things in order, and cook and wash, andknit and spin for them, she might stay where she was, and they wouldtake good care of her. Then they went out all day long to their work,seeking for gold and silver in the mountains. and Snow White remained athome. and they warned her, saying, "The queen will soon find out whereyou are, so take care and let no one in." But the queen, now that shethought Snow White was dead, believed that she was certainly thehandsomest lady in the land. so she went to her glass and said "Tell me, glass, tell me true!Of all the ladies in the land,Who is fairest? tell me who?"And the glass answered "Thou, Queen, thou are fairest in all this land.But over the Hills, in the greenwood shade,Where the seven dwarfs their dwelling have made,There Snow White is hiding. and sheIs lovelier far, O Queen, than thee."Then the queen was very much alarmed. for she knew that the glass alwaysspoke the truth, and she was sure that the servant had betrayed her. Andas she could not bear to think that any one lived who was more beautifulthan she was, she disguised herself as an old pedlar woman and went herway over the hills to the place where the dwarfs dwelt. Then she knockedat the door and cried, "Fine wares to sell!" Snow White looked out ofthe window, and said, "Good day, good woman. what have you to sell?""Good wares, fine wares," replied she. "laces and bobbins of allcolors." "I will let the old lady in. she seems to be a very good sortof a body," thought Snow White. so she ran down, and unbolted the door."Bless me!" said the woman, "how badly your stays are laced. Let me lacethem up with one of my nice new laces." Snow White did not dream of anymischief. so she stood up before the old woman who set to work sonimbly, and pulled the lace so tightly that Snow White lost her breath,and fell down as if she were dead. "There's an end of all thy beauty,"said the spiteful queen, and went away home.In the evening the seven dwarfs returned. and I need not say how grievedthey were to see their faithful Snow White stretched upon the groundmotionless, as if she were quite dead. However, they lifted her up, andwhen they found what was the matter, they cut the lace. and in a littletime she began to breathe, and soon came to herself again. Then theysaid, "The old woman was the queen. take care another time, and let noone in when we are away."When the queen got home, she went to her glass, and spoke to it, but toher surprise it replied in the same words as before.Then the blood ran cold in her heart with spite and malice to hear thatSnow White still lived. and she dressed herself up again in a disguise,but very different from the one she wore before, and took with her apoisoned comb. When she reached the dwarfs' cottage, she knocked at thedoor, and cried, "Fine wares to sell!" but Snow White said, "I dare notlet any one in." Then the queen said, "Only look at my beautiful combs."and gave her the poisoned one. And it looked so pretty that the littlegirl took it up and put it into her hair to try it. but the moment ittouched her head the poison was so powerful that she fell downsenseless. "There you may lie," said the queen, and went her way. But bygood luck the dwarfs returned very early that evening. and when they sawSnow White lying on the ground, they thought what had happened, and soonfound the poisoned comb. And when they took it away, she recovered, andtold them all that had passed. and they warned her once more not to openthe door to any one.Meantime the queen went home to her glass, and trembled with rage whenshe received exactly the same answer as before. and she said,"Snow White shall die, if it costs me my life." So she went secretlyinto a chamber, and prepared a poisoned apple: the outside looked veryrosy and tempting, but whosoever tasted it was sure to die. Then shedressed herself up as a peasant's wife, and travelled over the hills tothe dwarfs' cottage, and knocked at the door. but Snow White put herhead out of the window, and said, "I dare not let any one in, for thedwarfs have told me not to." "Do as you please," said the old woman,"but at any rate take this pretty apple. I will make you a present ofit." "No," said Snow White, "I dare not take it." "You silly girl!"answered the other, "what are you afraid of? do you think it ispoisoned? Come! do you eat one part, and I will eat the other." Now theapple was so prepared that one side was good, though the other side waspoisoned. Then Snow White was very much tempted to taste, for the applelooked exceedingly nice. and when she saw the old woman eat, she couldrefrain no longer. But she had scarcely put the piece into her mouthwhen she fell down dead upon the ground. "This time nothing will savethee," said the queen. and she went home to her glass, and at last itsaid "Thou, Queen, art the fairest of all the fair." And then herenvious heart was glad, and as happy as such a heart could be.When evening came, and the dwarfs returned home, they found Snow Whitelying on the ground. no breath passed her lips, and they were afraidthat she was quite dead. They lifted her up, and combed her hair, andwashed her face with wine and water. but all was in vain. So they laidher down upon a bier, and all seven watched and bewailed her three wholedays. and then they proposed to bury her. but her cheeks were stillrosy, and her face looked just as it did while she was alive. so theysaid, "We will never bury her in the cold ground." And they made acoffin of glass so that they might still look at her, and wrote her nameupon it in golden letters, and that she was a king's daughter. Then thecoffin was placed upon the hill, and one of the dwarfs always sat by itand watched. And the birds of the air came, too, and bemoanedSnow White. First of all came an owl, and then a raven, but at last camea dove.And thus Snow White lay for a long, long time, and still only looked asthough she were asleep. for she was even now as white as snow, and asred as blood, and as black as ebony. At last a prince came and called atthe dwarfs' house. and he saw Snow White and read what was written ingolden letters. Then he offered the dwarfs money, and earnestly prayedthem to let him take her away. but they said, "We will not part with herfor all the gold in the world." At last, however, they had pity on him,and gave him the coffin. but the moment he lifted it up to carry it homewith him, the piece of apple fell from between her lips, and Snow Whiteawoke, and exclaimed, "Where am I!" And the prince answered, "Thou artsafe with me." Then he told her all that had happened, and said, "I loveyou better than all the world. come with me to my father's palace, andyou shall be my wife." Snow White consented, and went home with theprince. and everything was prepared with great pomp and splendor fortheir wedding.To the feast was invited, among the rest, Snow White's old enemy, thequeen. and as she was dressing herself in fine, rich clothes, she lookedin the glass and said, "Tell me, glass, tell me true! Of all the ladiesin the land, Who is fairest? tell me who?" And the glass answered,"Thou, lady, art the loveliest _here_, I ween. But lovelier far is thenew made queen."When she heard this, the queen started with rage. but her envy andcuriosity were so great, that she could not help setting out to see thebride. And when she arrived, and saw that it was no other thanSnow White, whom she thought had been dead a long while, she choked withpassion, and fell ill and died. but Snow White and the prince lived andreigned happily over that land, many, many years.