Once upon a time, there lived in a certain village, a little countrygirl, the prettiest creature was ever seen. Her mother was excessivelyfond of her. and her grand mother doated on her much more. This goodwoman got made for her a little red riding hood. which became the girlso extremely well, that every body called her Little Red Riding Hood.One day, her mother, having made some girdle cakes, said to her:"Go, my dear, and see how thy grand mamma does, for I hear she hasbeen very ill, carry her a girdle cake, and this little pot ofbutter."Little Red Riding Hood set out immediately to go to her grand mother,who lived in another village. As she was going thro' the wood, she metwith Gaffer Wolf, who had a very great mind to eat her up, but hedurst not, because of some faggot makers hard by in the forest.He asked her whither she was going. The poor child, who did not knowthat it was dangerous to stay and hear a Wolf talk, said to him:"I am going to see my grand mamma, and carry her a girdle cake, and alittle pot of butter, from my mamma.""Does she live far off?" said the Wolf."Oh! ay," answered Little Red Riding Hood, "it is beyond that millyou see there, at the first house in the village.""Well," said the Wolf, "and I'll go and see her too: I'll go this way,and you go that, and we shall see who will be there soonest."The Wolf began to run as fast as he could, taking the nearest way. andthe little girl went by that farthest about, diverting herself ingathering nuts, running after butterflies, and making nosegays of suchlittle flowers as she met with. The Wolf was not long before he got tothe old woman's house: he knocked at the door, _tap, tap_."Who's there?""Your grand child, Little Red Riding Hood," replied the Wolf,counterfeiting her voice, "who has brought you a girdle cake, and alittle pot of butter, sent you by mamma."The good grand mother, who was in bed, because she found herselfsomewhat ill, cry'd out:"Pull the peg, and the bolt will fall."The Wolf pull'd the peg, and the door opened, and then presently hefell upon the good woman, and ate her up in a moment. for it was abovethree days that he had not touched a bit. He then shut the door, andwent into the grand mother's bed, expecting Little Red Riding Hood,who came some time afterwards, and knock'd at the door, _tap, tap_."Who's there?"Little Red Riding Hood, hearing the big voice of the Wolf, was atfirst afraid. but believing her grand mother had got a cold, and washoarse, answered:"'Tis your grand child, Little Red Riding Hood, who has brought you agirdle cake, and a little pot of butter, mamma sends you."The Wolf cried out to her, softening his voice as much as he could,"Pull the peg, and the bolt will fall."Little Red Riding Hood pulled the peg, and the door opened. The Wolfseeing her come in, said to her, hiding himself under the bedclothes:"Put the cake, and the little pot of butter upon the bread bin, andcome and lye down with me."Little Red Riding Hood undressed herself, and went into bed. where,being greatly amazed to see how her grand mother looked in hernight cloaths, she said to her:"Grand mamma, what great arms you have got!""That is the better to hug thee, my dear.""Grand mamma, what great legs you have got!""That is to run the better, my child.""Grand mamma, what great ears you have got!""That is to hear the better, my child.""Grand mamma, what great eyes you have got!""It is to see the better, my child.""Grand mamma, what great teeth you have got!""That is to eat thee up."And, saying these words, this wicked Wolf fell upon poor Little RedRiding Hood, and ate her all up._From this short story easy we discernWhat conduct all young people ought to learn.But above all, young, growing misses fair,Whose orient rosy blooms begin t'appear:Who, beauties in the fragrant spring of age,With pretty airs young hearts are apt t'engage.Ill do they listen to all sorts of tongues,Since some inchant and lure like Syrens' songs.No wonder therefore 'tis, if over power'd,So many of them has the Wolf devour'd.The Wolf, I say, for Wolves too sure there areOf every sort, and every character.Some of them mild and gentle humour'd be,Of noise and gall, and rancour wholly free.Who tame, familiar, full of complaisanceOgle and leer, languish, cajole and glance.With luring tongues, and language wond'rous sweet,Follow young ladies as they walk the street,Ev'n to their very houses, nay, bedside,And, artful, tho' their true designs they hide.Yet ah! these simpering Wolves! Who does not seeMost dangerous of Wolves indeed they be?_