Yes, they called him Little Tuk, but it was not his real name.he had called himself so before he could speak plainly, and he meantit for Charles. It was all very well for those who knew him, but notfor strangers.Little Tuk was left at home to take care of his little sister,Gustava, who was much younger than himself, and he had to learn hislessons at the same time, and the two things could not very well beperformed together. The poor boy sat there with his sister on his lap,and sung to her all the songs he knew, and now and then he looked intohis geography lesson that lay open before him. By the next morninghe had to learn by heart all the towns in Zealand, and all thatcould be described of them.His mother came home at last, and took little Gustava in her arms.Then Tuk ran to the window, and read so eagerly that he nearly readhis eyes out. for it had become darker and darker every minute, andhis mother had no money to buy a light."There goes the old washerwoman up the lane," said the mother,as she looked out of the window. "the poor woman can hardly dragherself along, and now she had to drag a pail of water from thewell. Be a good boy, Tuk, and run across and help the old woman, won'tyou?"So Tuk ran across quickly, and helped her, but when he came backinto the room it was quite dark, and there was not a word said about alight, so he was obliged to go to bed on his little trucklebedstead, and there he lay and thought of his geography lesson, and ofZealand, and of all the master had told him. He ought really to haveread it over again, but he could not for want of light. So he putthe geography book under his pillow, for he had heard that this wasa great help towards learning a lesson, but not always to bedepended upon. He still lay thinking and thinking, when all at once itseemed as if some one kissed him on his eyes and mouth. He slept andyet he did not sleep. and it appeared as if the old washerwoman lookedat him with kind eyes and said, "It would be a great pity if you didnot know your lesson to morrow morning. you helped me, and now Iwill help you, and Providence will always keep those who helpthemselves." and at the same time the book under Tuk's pillow began tomove about. "Cluck, cluck, cluck," cried a hen as she crept towardshim. "I am a hen from Kjoge," and then she told him how manyinhabitants the town contained, and about a battle that had beenfought there, which really was not worth speaking of."Crack, crack," down fell something. It was a wooden bird, theparrot which is used as a target as Prastoe. He said there were asmany inhabitants in that town as he had nails in his body. He was veryproud, and said, "Thorwalsden lived close to me, and here I am now,quite comfortable."But now little Tuk was no longer in bed. all in a moment hefound himself on horseback. Gallop, gallop, away he went, seated infront of a richly attired knight, with a waving plume, who held him onthe saddle, and so they rode through the wood by the old town ofWordingburg, which was very large and busy. The king's castle wassurrounded by lofty towers, and radiant light streamed from all thewindows. Within there were songs and dancing. King Waldemar and theyoung gayly dressed ladies of the court were dancing together. Morningdawned, and as the sun rose, the whole city and the king's castle sanksuddenly down together. One tower after another fell, till at lastonly one remained standing on the hill where the castle had formerlybeen.The town now appeared small and poor, and the school boys readin their books, which they carried under their arms, that it containedtwo thousand inhabitants. but this was a mere boast, for it did notcontain so many.And again little Tuk lay in his bed, scarcely knowing whether hewas dreaming or not, for some one stood by him."Tuk! little Tuk!" said a voice. It was a very little person whospoke. He was dressed as a sailor, and looked small enough to be amiddy, but he was not one. "I bring you many greetings from Corsor. Itis a rising town, full of life. It has steamships and mail coaches. Intimes past they used to call it ugly, but that is no longer true. Ilie on the sea shore," said Corsor. "I have high roads andpleasure gardens. I have given birth to a poet who was witty andentertaining, which they are not all. I once wanted to fit out aship to sail round the world, but I did not accomplish it, though mostlikely I might have done so. But I am fragrant with perfume, for closeto my gates most lovely roses bloom."Then before the eyes of little Tuk appeared a confusion of colors,red and green. but it cleared off, and he could distinguish a cliffclose to the bay, the slopes of which were quite overgrown withverdure, and on its summit stood a fine old church with pointedtowers. Springs of water flowed out of the cliff in thick waterspouts,so that there was a continual splashing. Close by sat an old king witha golden crown on his white head. This was King Hroar of the Springsand near the springs stood the town of Roeskilde, as it is called.Then all the kings and queens of Denmark went up the ascent to the oldchurch, hand in hand, with golden crowns on their heads, while theorgan played and the fountains sent forth jets of water.Little Tuk saw and heard it all. "Don't forget the names ofthese towns," said King Hroar.All at once everything vanished. but where! It seemed to himlike turning over the leaves of a book. And now there stood before himan old peasant woman, who had come from Soroe where the grass grows inthe market place. She had a green linen apron thrown over her head andshoulders, and it was quite wet, as if it had been raining heavily."Yes, that it has," said she, and then, just as she was going totell him a great many pretty stories from Holberg's comedies, andabout Waldemar and Absalom, she suddenly shrunk up together, andwagged her head as if she were a frog about to spring. "Croak," shecried. "it is always wet, and as quiet as death in Soroe." Then littleTuk saw she was changed into a frog. "Croak," and again she was an oldwoman. "One must dress according to the weather," said she. "It iswet, and my town is just like a bottle. By the cork we must go in, andby the cork we must come out again. In olden times I had beautifulfish, and now I have fresh, rosy cheeked boys in the bottom of thebottle, and they learn wisdom, Hebrew and Greek.""Croak." How it sounded like the cry of the frogs on the moor,or like the creaking of great boots when some one is marching, alwaysthe same tone, so monotonous and wearing, that little Tuk at lengthfell fast asleep, and then the sound could not annoy him. But evenin this sleep came a dream or something like it. His little sisterGustava, with her blue eyes, and fair curly hair, had grown up abeautiful maiden all at once, and without having wings she couldfly. And they flew together over Zealand, over green forests andblue lakes."Hark, so you hear the cock crow, little Tuk. 'Cock a doodle doo.'The fowls are flying out of Kjoge. You shall have a large farm yard.You shall never suffer hunger or want. The bird of good omen shallbe yours, and you shall become a rich and happy man. your houseshall rise up like King Waldemar's towers, and shall be richly adornedwith marble statues, like those at Prastoe. Understand me well. yourname shall travel with fame round the world like the ship that wasto sail from Corsor, and at Roeskilde, Don't forget the names ofthe towns, as King Hroar said, you shall speak well and clearlylittle Tuk, and when at last you lie in your grave you shall sleeppeacefully, as ""As if I lay in Soroe," said little Tuk awaking. It was brightdaylight, and he could not remember his dream, but that was notnecessary, for we are not to know what will happen to us in thefuture. Then he sprang out of bed quickly, and read over his lesson inthe book, and knew it all at once quite correctly. The old washerwomanput her head in at the door, and nodded to him quite kindly, and said,"Many thanks, you good child, for your help yesterday. I hope all yourbeautiful dreams will come true."Little Tuk did not at all know what he had dreamt, but One abovedid.