In a village there once lived two men who had the same name.They were both called Claus. One of them had four horses, but theother had only one. so to distinguish them, people called the owner ofthe four horses, "Great Claus," and he who had only one, "LittleClaus." Now we shall hear what happened to them, for this is a truestory.Through the whole week, Little Claus was obliged to plough forGreat Claus, and lend him his one horse. and once a week, on a Sunday,Great Claus lent him all his four horses. Then how Little Clauswould smack his whip over all five horses, they were as good as hisown on that one day. The sun shone brightly, and the church bells wereringing merrily as the people passed by, dressed in their bestclothes, with their prayer books under their arms. They were goingto hear the clergyman preach. They looked at Little Claus ploughingwith his five horses, and he was so proud that he smacked his whip,and said, "Gee up, my five horses.""You must not say that," said Big Claus. "for only one of thembelongs to you." But Little Claus soon forgot what he ought to say,and when any one passed he would call out, "Gee up, my five horses!""Now I must beg you not to say that again," said Big Claus. "forif you do, I shall hit your horse on the head, so that he will dropdead on the spot, and there will be an end of him.""I promise you I will not say it any more," said the other. but assoon as people came by, nodding to him, and wishing him "Good day," hebecame so pleased, and thought how grand it looked to have five horsesploughing in his field, that he cried out again, "Gee up, all myhorses!""I'll gee up your horses for you," said Big Claus. and seizing ahammer, he struck the one horse of Little Claus on the head, and hefell dead instantly."Oh, now I have no horse at all," said Little Claus, weeping. Butafter a while he took off the dead horse's skin, and hung the hideto dry in the wind. Then he put the dry skin into a bag, and,placing it over his shoulder, went out into the next town to sellthe horse's skin. He had a very long way to go, and had to passthrough a dark, gloomy forest. Presently a storm arose, and he losthis way, and before he discovered the right path, evening came on, andit was still a long way to the town, and too far to return home beforenight. Near the road stood a large farmhouse. The shutters outside thewindows were closed, but lights shone through the crevices at the top."I might get permission to stay here for the night," thought LittleClaus. so he went up to the door and knocked. The farmer's wife openedthe door. but when she heard what he wanted, she told him to goaway, as her husband would not allow her to admit strangers. "Then Ishall be obliged to lie out here," said Little Claus to himself, asthe farmer's wife shut the door in his face. Near to the farmhousestood a large haystack, and between it and the house was a small shed,with a thatched roof. "I can lie up there," said Little Claus, as hesaw the roof. "it will make a famous bed, but I hope the stork willnot fly down and bite my legs." for on it stood a living stork,whose nest was in the roof. So Little Claus climbed to the roof of theshed, and while he turned himself to get comfortable, he discoveredthat the wooden shutters, which were closed, did not reach to the topsof the windows of the farmhouse, so that he could see into a room,in which a large table was laid out with wine, roast meat, and asplendid fish. The farmer's wife and the sexton were sitting at thetable together. and she filled his glass, and helped him plenteouslyto fish, which appeared to be his favorite dish. "If I could onlyget some, too," thought Little Claus. and then, as he stretched hisneck towards the window he spied a large, beautiful pie, indeedthey had a glorious feast before them.At this moment he heard some one riding down the road, towards thefarmhouse. It was the farmer returning home. He was a good man, butstill he had a very strange prejudice, he could not bear the sight ofa sexton. If one appeared before him, he would put himself in aterrible rage. In consequence of this dislike, the sexton had goneto visit the farmer's wife during her husband's absence from home, andthe good woman had placed before him the best she had in the houseto eat. When she heard the farmer coming she was frightened, andbegged the sexton to hide himself in a large empty chest that stood inthe room. He did so, for he knew her husband could not endure thesight of a sexton. The woman then quickly put away the wine, and hidall the rest of the nice things in the oven. for if her husband hadseen them he would have asked what they were brought out for."Oh, dear," sighed Little Claus from the top of the shed, as hesaw all the good things disappear."Is any one up there?" asked the farmer, looking up anddiscovering Little Claus. "Why are you lying up there? Come down,and come into the house with me." So Little Claus came down and toldthe farmer how he had lost his way and begged for a night's lodging."All right," said the farmer. "but we must have something to eatfirst."The woman received them both very kindly, laid the cloth on alarge table, and placed before them a dish of porridge. The farmer wasvery hungry, and ate his porridge with a good appetite, but LittleClaus could not help thinking of the nice roast meat, fish and pies,which he knew were in the oven. Under the table, at his feet, laythe sack containing the horse's skin, which he intended to sell at thenext town. Now Little Claus did not relish the porridge at all, sohe trod with his foot on the sack under the table, and the dry skinsqueaked quite loud. "Hush!" said Little Claus to his sack, at thesame time treading upon it again, till it squeaked louder than before."Hallo! what have you got in your sack!" asked the farmer."Oh, it is a conjuror," said Little Claus. "and he says we neednot eat porridge, for he has conjured the oven full of roast meat,fish, and pie.""Wonderful!" cried the farmer, starting up and opening the ovendoor. and there lay all the nice things hidden by the farmer's wife,but which he supposed had been conjured there by the wizard underthe table. The woman dared not say anything. so she placed thethings before them, and they both ate of the fish, the meat, and thepastry.Then Little Claus trod again upon his sack, and it squeaked asbefore. "What does he say now?" asked the farmer."He says," replied Little Claus, "that there are three bottlesof wine for us, standing in the corner, by the oven."So the woman was obliged to bring out the wine also, which she hadhidden, and the farmer drank it till he became quite merry. He wouldhave liked such a conjuror as Little Claus carried in his sack. "Couldhe conjure up the evil one?" asked the farmer. "I should like to seehim now, while I am so merry.""Oh, yes!" replied Little Claus, "my conjuror can do anything Iask him, can you not?" he asked, treading at the same time on thesack till it squeaked. "Do you hear? he answers 'Yes,' but he fearsthat we shall not like to look at him.""Oh, I am not afraid. What will he be like?""Well, he is very much like a sexton.""Ha!" said the farmer, "then he must be ugly. Do you know I cannotendure the sight of a sexton. However, that doesn't matter, I shallknow who it is. so I shall not mind. Now then, I have got up mycourage, but don't let him come too near me.""Stop, I must ask the conjuror," said Little Claus. so he trodon the bag, and stooped his ear down to listen."What does he say?""He says that you must go and open that large chest which standsin the corner, and you will see the evil one crouching down inside.but you must hold the lid firmly, that he may not slip out.""Will you come and help me hold it?" said the farmer, goingtowards the chest in which his wife had hidden the sexton, who now layinside, very much frightened. The farmer opened the lid a verylittle way, and peeped in."Oh," cried he, springing backwards, "I saw him, and he is exactlylike our sexton. How dreadful it is!" So after that he was obligedto drink again, and they sat and drank till far into the night."You must sell your conjuror to me," said the farmer. "ask as muchas you like, I will pay it. indeed I would give you directly a wholebushel of gold.""No, indeed, I cannot," said Little Claus. "only think how muchprofit I could make out of this conjuror.""But I should like to have him," said the fanner, still continuinghis entreaties."Well," said Little Claus at length, "you have been so good asto give me a night's lodging, I will not refuse you. you shall havethe conjuror for a bushel of money, but I will have quite fullmeasure.""So you shall," said the farmer. "but you must take away the chestas well. I would not have it in the house another hour. there is noknowing if he may not be still there."So Little Claus gave the farmer the sack containing the driedhorse's skin, and received in exchange a bushel of money fullmeasure. The farmer also gave him a wheelbarrow on which to carry awaythe chest and the gold."Farewell," said Little Claus, as he went off with his money andthe great chest, in which the sexton lay still concealed. On oneside of the forest was a broad, deep river, the water flowed sorapidly that very few were able to swim against the stream. A newbridge had lately been built across it, and in the middle of thisbridge Little Claus stopped, and said, loud enough to be heard bythe sexton, "Now what shall I do with this stupid chest. it is asheavy as if it were full of stones: I shall be tired if I roll itany farther, so I may as well throw it in the river. if it swims afterme to my house, well and good, and if not, it will not much matter."So he seized the chest in his hand and lifted it up a little, asif he were going to throw it into the water."No, leave it alone," cried the sexton from within the chest. "letme out first.""Oh," exclaimed Little Claus, pretending to be frightened, "heis in there still, is he? I must throw him into the river, that he maybe drowned.""Oh, no. oh, no," cried the sexton. "I will give you a wholebushel full of money if you will let me go."Why, that is another matter," said Little Claus, opening thechest. The sexton crept out, pushed the empty chest into the water,and went to his house, then he measured out a whole bushel full ofgold for Little Claus, who had already received one from the farmer,so that now he had a barrow full."I have been well paid for my horse," said he to himself when hereached home, entered his own room, and emptied all his money into aheap on the floor. "How vexed Great Claus will be when he finds outhow rich I have become all through my one horse. but I shall nottell him exactly how it all happened." Then he sent a boy to GreatClaus to borrow a bushel measure."What can he want it for?" thought Great Claus. so he smearedthe bottom of the measure with tar, that some of whatever was put intoit might stick there and remain. And so it happened. for when themeasure returned, three new silver florins were sticking to it."What does this mean?" said Great Claus. so he ran off directly toLittle Claus, and asked, "Where did you get so much money?""Oh, for my horse's skin, I sold it yesterday.""It was certainly well paid for then," said Great Claus. and heran home to his house, seized a hatchet, and knocked all his fourhorses on the head, flayed off their skins, and took them to thetown to sell. "Skins, skins, who'll buy skins?" he cried, as he wentthrough the streets. All the shoemakers and tanners came running,and asked how much he wanted for them."A bushel of money, for each," replied Great Claus."Are you mad?" they all cried. "do you think we have money tospend by the bushel?""Skins, skins," he cried again, "who'll buy skins?" but to all whoinquired the price, his answer was, "a bushel of money.""He is making fools of us," said they all. then the shoemakerstook their straps, and the tanners their leather aprons, and beganto beat Great Claus."Skins, skins!" they cried, mocking him. "yes, we'll mark yourskin for you, till it is black and blue.""Out of the town with him," said they. And Great Claus was obligedto run as fast as he could, he had never before been so thoroughlybeaten."Ah," said he, as he came to his house. "Little Claus shall pay mefor this. I will beat him to death."Meanwhile the old grandmother of Little Claus died. She had beencross, unkind, and really spiteful to him. but he was very sorry,and took the dead woman and laid her in his warm bed to see if hecould bring her to life again. There he determined that she should liethe whole night, while he seated himself in a chair in a corner of theroom as he had often done before. During the night, as he sat there,the door opened, and in came Great Claus with a hatchet. He knewwell where Little Claus's bed stood. so he went right up to it, andstruck the old grandmother on the head, thinking it must be LittleClaus."There," cried he, "now you cannot make a fool of me again." andthen he went home."That is a very wicked man," thought Little Claus. "he meant tokill me. It is a good thing for my old grandmother that she wasalready dead, or he would have taken her life." Then he dressed hisold grandmother in her best clothes, borrowed a horse of his neighbor,and harnessed it to a cart. Then he placed the old woman on the backseat, so that she might not fall out as he drove, and rode awaythrough the wood. By sunrise they reached a large inn, where LittleClaus stopped and went to get something to eat. The landlord was arich man, and a good man too. but as passionate as if he had been madeof pepper and snuff."Good morning," said he to Little Claus. "you are come betimesto day.""Yes," said Little Claus. "I am going to the town with my oldgrandmother. she is sitting at the back of the wagon, but I cannotbring her into the room. Will you take her a glass of mead? but youmust speak very loud, for she cannot hear well.""Yes, certainly I will," replied the landlord. and, pouring outa glass of mead, he carried it out to the dead grandmother, who satupright in the cart. "Here is a glass of mead from your grandson,"said the landlord. The dead woman did not answer a word, but sat quitestill. "Do you not hear?" cried the landlord as loud as he could."here is a glass of mead from your grandson."Again and again he bawled it out, but as she did not stir heflew into a passion, and threw the glass of mead in her face. itstruck her on the nose, and she fell backwards out of the cart, forshe was only seated there, not tied in."Hallo!" cried Little Claus, rushing out of the door, and seizinghold of the landlord by the throat. "you have killed my grandmother.see, here is a great hole in her forehead.""Oh, how unfortunate," said the landlord, wringing his hands."This all comes of my fiery temper. Dear Little Claus, I will give youa bushel of money. I will bury your grandmother as if she were my own.only keep silent, or else they will cut off my head, and that would bedisagreeable."So it happened that Little Claus received another bushel of money,and the landlord buried his old grandmother as if she had been hisown. When Little Claus reached home again, he immediately sent a boyto Great Claus, requesting him to lend him a bushel measure. "How isthis?" thought Great Claus. "did I not kill him? I must go and see formyself." So he went to Little Claus, and took the bushel measurewith him. "How did you get all this money?" asked Great Claus, staringwith wide open eyes at his neighbor's treasures."You killed my grandmother instead of me," said Little Claus."so I have sold her for a bushel of money.""That is a good price at all events," said Great Claus. So he wenthome, took a hatchet, and killed his old grandmother with one blow.Then he placed her on a cart, and drove into the town to theapothecary, and asked him if he would buy a dead body."Whose is it, and where did you get it?" asked the apothecary."It is my grandmother," he replied. "I killed her with a blow,that I might get a bushel of money for her.""Heaven preserve us!" cried the apothecary, "you are out of yourmind. Don't say such things, or you will lose your head." And thenhe talked to him seriously about the wicked deed he had done, and toldhim that such a wicked man would surely be punished. Great Claus gotso frightened that he rushed out of the surgery, jumped into the cart,whipped up his horses, and drove home quickly. The apothecary andall the people thought him mad, and let him drive where he liked."You shall pay for this," said Great Claus, as soon as he got intothe highroad, "that you shall, Little Claus." So as soon as he reachedhome he took the largest sack he could find and went over to LittleClaus. "You have played me another trick," said he. "First, I killedall my horses, and then my old grandmother, and it is all yourfault. but you shall not make a fool of me any more." So he laidhold of Little Claus round the body, and pushed him into the sack,which he took on his shoulders, saying, "Now I'm going to drown you inthe river."He had a long way to go before he reached the river, and LittleClaus was not a very light weight to carry. The road led by thechurch, and as they passed he could hear the organ playing and thepeople singing beautifully. Great Claus put down the sack close to thechurch door, and thought he might as well go in and hear a psalmbefore he went any farther. Little Claus could not possibly get out ofthe sack, and all the people were in church. so in he went."Oh dear, oh dear," sighed Little Claus in the sack, as heturned and twisted about. but he found he could not loosen thestring with which it was tied. Presently an old cattle driver, withsnowy hair, passed by, carrying a large staff in his hand, withwhich he drove a large herd of cows and oxen before him. They stumbledagainst the sack in which lay Little Claus, and turned it over. "Ohdear," sighed Little Claus, "I am very young, yet I am soon going toheaven.""And I, poor fellow," said the drover, "I who am so old already,cannot get there.""Open the sack," cried Little Claus. "creep into it instead of me,and you will soon be there.""With all my heart," replied the drover, opening the sack, fromwhich sprung Little Claus as quickly as possible. "Will you takecare of my cattle?" said the old man, as he crept into the bag."Yes," said Little Claus, and he tied up the sack, and then walkedoff with all the cows and oxen.When Great Claus came out of church, he took up the sack, andplaced it on his shoulders. It appeared to have become lighter, forthe old drover was not half so heavy as Little Claus."How light he seems now," said he. "Ah, it is because I havebeen to a church." So he walked on to the river, which was deep andbroad, and threw the sack containing the old drover into the water,believing it to be Little Claus. "There you may lie!" he exclaimed."you will play me no more tricks now." Then he turned to go home,but when he came to a place where two roads crossed, there wasLittle Claus driving the cattle. "How is this?" said Great Claus. "DidI not drown you just now?""Yes," said Little Claus. "you threw me into the river abouthalf an hour ago.""But wherever did you get all these fine beasts?" asked GreatClaus."These beasts are sea cattle," replied Little Claus. "I'll tellyou the whole story, and thank you for drowning me. I am above younow, I am really very rich. I was frightened, to be sure, while Ilay tied up in the sack, and the wind whistled in my ears when youthrew me into the river from the bridge, and I sank to the bottomimmediately. but I did not hurt myself, for I fell upon beautifullysoft grass which grows down there. and in a moment, the sack opened,and the sweetest little maiden came towards me. She had snow whiterobes, and a wreath of green leaves on her wet hair. She took me bythe hand, and said, 'So you are come, Little Claus, and here aresome cattle for you to begin with. About a mile farther on the road,there is another herd for you.' Then I saw that the river formed agreat highway for the people who live in the sea. They were walkingand driving here and there from the sea to the land at the, spot wherethe river terminates. The bed of the river was covered with theloveliest flowers and sweet fresh grass. The fish swam past me asrapidly as the birds do here in the air. How handsome all the peoplewere, and what fine cattle were grazing on the hills and in thevalleys!""But why did you come up again," said Great Claus, "if it wasall so beautiful down there? I should not have done so?""Well," said Little Claus, "it was good policy on my part. youheard me say just now that I was told by the sea maiden to go a milefarther on the road, and I should find a whole herd of cattle. Bythe road she meant the river, for she could not travel any otherway. but I knew the winding of the river, and how it bends,sometimes to the right and sometimes to the left, and it seemed a longway, so I chose a shorter one. and, by coming up to the land, and thendriving across the fields back again to the river, I shall save half amile, and get all my cattle more quickly.""What a lucky fellow you are!" exclaimed Great Claus. "Do youthink I should get any sea cattle if I went down to the bottom ofthe river?""Yes, I think so," said Little Claus. "but I cannot carry youthere in a sack, you are too heavy. However if you will go therefirst, and then creep into a sack, I will throw you in with thegreatest pleasure.""Thank you," said Great Claus. "but remember, if I do not getany sea cattle down there I shall come up again and give you a goodthrashing.""No, now, don't be too fierce about it!" said Little Claus, asthey walked on towards the river. When they approached it, the cattle,who were very thirsty, saw the stream, and ran down to drink."See what a hurry they are in," said Little Claus, "they arelonging to get down again.""Come, help me, make haste," said Great Claus. "or you'll getbeaten." So he crept into a large sack, which had been lying acrossthe back of one of the oxen."Put in a stone," said Great Claus, "or I may not sink.""Oh, there's not much fear of that," he replied. still he put alarge stone into the bag, and then tied it tightly, and gave it apush."Plump!" In went Great Claus, and immediately sank to the bottomof the river."I'm afraid he will not find any cattle," said Little Claus, andthen he drove his own beasts homewards.