Once upon a time there was a king who had an only son. When the lad wasabout eighteen years old his father had to go to fight in a war againsta neighbouring country, and the king led his troops in person. He badehis son act as Regent in his absence, but ordered him on no account tomarry till his return.Time went by. The prince ruled the country and never even thought ofmarrying. But when he reached his twenty fifth birthday he began tothink that it might be rather nice to have a wife, and he thought somuch that at last he got quite eager about it. He remembered, however,what his father had said, and waited some time longer, till at last itwas ten years since the king went out to war. Then the prince called hiscourtiers about him and set off with a great retinue to seek a bride. Hehardly knew which way to go, so he wandered about for twenty days, when,suddenly, he found himself in his father's camp.The king was delighted to see his son, and had a great many questionsto ask and answer. but when he heard that instead of quietly waitingfor him at home the prince was starting off to seek a wife he was veryangry, and said: 'You may go where you please but I will not leave anyof my people with you.'Only one faithful servant stayed with the prince and refused to partfrom him. They journeyed over hill and dale till they came to a placecalled Goldtown. The King of Goldtown had a lovely daughter, and theprince, who soon heard about her beauty, could not rest till he saw her.He was very kindly received, for he was extremely good looking and hadcharming manners, so he lost no time in asking for her hand and herparents gave her to him with joy. The wedding took place at once, andthe feasting and rejoicings went on for a whole month. At the end ofthe month they set off for home, but as the journey was a long one theyspent the first evening at an inn. Everyone in the house slept, and onlythe faithful servant kept watch. About midnight he heard three crows,who had flown to the roof, talking together.'That's a handsome couple which arrived here tonight. It seems quite apity they should lose their lives so soon.''Truly,' said the second crow. 'for to morrow, when midday strikes, thebridge over the Gold Stream will break just as they are driving overit. But, listen! whoever overhears and tells what we have said will beturned to stone up to his knees.'The crows had hardly done speaking when away they flew. And close uponthem followed three pigeons.'Even if the prince and princess get safe over the bridge they willperish,' said they. 'for the king is going to send a carriage to meetthem which looks as new as paint. But when they are seated in it araging wind will rise and whirl the carriage away into the clouds. Thenit will fall suddenly to earth, and they will be killed. But anyone whohears and betrays what we have said will be turned to stone up to hiswaist.'With that the pigeons flew off and three eagles took their places, andthis is what they said:'If the young couple does manage to escape the dangers of the bridgeand the carriage, the king means to send them each a splendid goldembroidered robe. When they put these on they will be burnt up at once.But whoever hears and repeats this will turn to stone from head tofoot.'Early next morning the travellers got up and breakfasted. They began totell each other their dreams. At last the servant said:'Gracious prince, I dreamt that if your Royal Highness would grant allI asked we should get home safe and sound. but if you did not we shouldcertainly be lost. My dreams never deceive me, so I entreat you tofollow my advice during the rest of the journey.''Don't make such a fuss about a dream,' said the prince. 'dreams are butclouds. Still, to prevent your being anxious I will promise to do as youwish.'With that they set out on their journey.At midday they reached the Gold Stream. When they got to the bridge theservant said: 'Let us leave the carriage here, my prince, and walka little way. The town is not far off and we can easily get anothercarriage there, for the wheels of this one are bad and will not hold outmuch longer.'The prince looked well at the carriage. He did not think it looked sounsafe as his servant said. but he had given his word and he held to it.They got down and loaded the horses with the luggage. The prince andhis bride walked over the bridge, but the servant said he would ride thehorses through the stream so as to water and bathe them.They reached the other side without harm, and bought a new carriage inthe town, which was quite near, and set off once more on their travels.but they had not gone far when they met a messenger from the king whosaid to the prince: 'His Majesty has sent your Royal Highness thisbeautiful carriage so that you may make a fitting entry into your owncountry and amongst your own people.'The prince was so delighted that he could not speak. But the servantsaid: 'My lord, let me examine this carriage first and then you can getin if I find it is all right. otherwise we had better stay in our own.'The prince made no objections, and after looking the carriage wellover the servant said: 'It is as bad as it is smart'. and with thathe knocked it all to pieces, and they went on in the one that they hadbought.At last they reached the frontier. there another messenger was waitingfor them, who said that the king had sent two splendid robes for theprince and his bride, and begged that they would wear them for theirstate entry. But the servant implored the prince to have nothing to dowith them, and never gave him any peace till he had obtained leave todestroy the robes.The old king was furious when he found that all his arts had failed.that his son still lived and that he would have to give up the crown tohim now he was married, for that was the law of the land. He longed toknow how the prince had escaped, and said: 'My dear son, I do indeedrejoice to have you safely back, but I cannot imagine why the beautifulcarriage and the splendid robes I sent did not please you. why you hadthem destroyed.''Indeed, sire,' said the prince, 'I was myself much annoyed at theirdestruction. but my servant had begged to direct everything on thejourney and I had promised him that he should do so. He declared that wecould not possibly get home safely unless I did as he told me.'The old king fell into a tremendous rage. He called his Council togetherand condemned the servant to death.The gallows was put up in the square in front of the palace. The servantwas led out and his sentence read to him.The rope was being placed round his neck, when he begged to be alloweda few last words. 'On our journey home,' he said, 'we spent the firstnight at an inn. I did not sleep but kept watch all night.' And then hewent on to tell what the crows had said, and as he spoke he turned tostone up to his knees. The prince called to him to say no more as he hadproved his innocence. But the servant paid no heed to him, and by thetime his story was done he had turned to stone from head to foot.Oh! how grieved the prince was to lose his faithful servant! And whatpained him most was the thought that he was lost through his veryfaithfulness, and he determined to travel all over the world and neverrest till he found some means of restoring him to life.Now there lived at Court an old woman who had been the prince's nurse.To her he confided all his plans, and left his wife, the princess, inher care. 'You have a long way before you, my son,' said the old woman.'you must never return till you have met with Lucky Luck. If he cannothelp you no one on earth can.'So the prince set off to try to find Lucky Luck. He walked and walkedtill he got beyond his own country, and he wandered through a wood forthree days but did not meet a living being in it. At the end of thethird day he came to a river near which stood a large mill. Here hespent the night. When he was leaving next morning the miller asked him:'My gracious lord, where are you going all alone?'And the prince told him.'Then I beg your Highness to ask Lucky Luck this question: Why is itthat though I have an excellent mill, with all its machinery complete,and get plenty of grain to grind, I am so poor that I hardly know how tolive from one day to another?'The prince promised to inquire, and went on his way. He wandered aboutfor three days more, and at the end of the third day saw a little town.It was quite late when he reached it, but he could discover no lightanywhere, and walked almost right through it without finding a housewhere he could turn in. But far away at the end of the town he saw alight in a window. He went straight to it and in the house were threegirls playing a game together. The prince asked for a night's lodgingand they took him in, gave him some supper and got a room ready for him,where he slept.Next morning when he was leaving they asked where he was going and hetold them his story. 'Gracious prince,' said the maidens, 'do ask LuckyLuck how it happens that here we are over thirty years old and no loverhas come to woo us, though we are good, pretty, and very industrious.'The prince promised to inquire, and went on his way.Then he came to a great forest and wandered about in it from morning tonight and from night to morning before he got near the other end. Herehe found a pretty stream which was different from other streams as,instead of flowing, it stood still and began to talk: 'Sir prince, tellme what brings you into these wilds? I must have been flowing here ahundred years and more and no one has ever yet come by.''I will tell you,' answered the prince, 'if you will divide yourself sothat I may walk through.'The stream parted at once, and the prince walked through without wettinghis feet. and directly he got to the other side he told his story as hehad promised.'Oh, do ask Lucky Luck,' cried the brook, 'why, though I am such aclear, bright, rapid stream I never have a fish or any other livingcreature in my waters.'The prince said he would do so, and continued his journey.When he got quite clear of the forest he walked on through a lovelyvalley till he reached a little house thatched with rushes, and he wentin to rest for he was very tired.Everything in the house was beautifully clean and tidy, and a cheerfulhonest looking old woman was sitting by the fire.'Good morning, mother,' said the prince.'May Luck be with you, my son. What brings you into these parts?''I am looking for Lucky Luck,' replied the prince.'Then you have come to the right place, my son, for I am his mother. Heis not at home just now, he is out digging in the vineyard. Do you gotoo. Here are two spades. When you find him begin to dig, but don'tspeak a word to him. It is now eleven o'clock. When he sits down toeat his dinner sit beside him and eat with him. After dinner he willquestion you, and then tell him all your troubles freely. He will answerwhatever you may ask.'With that she showed him the way, and the prince went and did just asshe had told him. After dinner they lay down to rest.All of a sudden Lucky Luck began to speak and said: 'Tell me, what sortof man are you, for since you came here you have not spoken a word?''I am not dumb,' replied the young man, 'but I am that unhappy princewhose faithful servant has been turned to stone, and I want to know howto help him.''And you do well, for he deserves everything. Go back, and when youget home your wife will just have had a little boy. Take three drops ofblood from the child's little finger, rub them on your servant's wristswith a blade of grass and he will return to life.''I have another thing to ask,' said the prince, when he had thanked him.'In the forest near here is a fine stream but not a fish or other livingcreature in it. Why is this?''Because no one has ever been drowned in the stream. But take care, incrossing, to get as near the other side as you can before you say so, oryou may be the first victim yourself.''Another question, please, before I go. On my way here I lodgedone night in the house of three maidens. All were well mannered,hard working, and pretty, and yet none has had a wooer. Why was this?''Because they always throw out their sweepings in the face of the sun.''And why is it that a miller, who has a large mill with all the bestmachinery and gets plenty of corn to grind is so poor that he can hardlylive from day to day?''Because the miller keeps everything for himself, and does not give tothose who need it.'The prince wrote down the answers to his questions, took a friendlyleave of Lucky Luck, and set off for home.When he reached the stream it asked if he brought it any good news.'When I get across I will tell you,' said he. So the stream parted. hewalked through and on to the highest part of the bank. He stopped andshouted out:'Listen, oh stream! Lucky Luck says you will never have any livingcreature in your waters until someone is drowned in you.'The words were hardly out of his mouth when the stream swelled andoverflowed till it reached the rock up which he had climbed, and dashedso far up it that the spray flew over him. But he clung on tight, andafter failing to reach him three times the stream returned to its propercourse. Then the prince climbed down, dried himself in the sun, and setout on his march home.He spent the night once more at the mill and gave the miller his answer,and by and by he told the three sisters not to throw out all theirsweepings in the face of the sun.The prince had hardly arrived at home when some thieves tried to fordthe stream with a fine horse they had stolen. When they were half wayacross, the stream rose so suddenly that it swept them all away. Fromthat time it became the best fishing stream in the country side.The miller, too, began to give alms and became a very good man, and intime grew so rich that he hardly knew how much he had.And the three sisters, now that they no longer insulted the sun, hadeach a wooer within a week.When the prince got home he found that his wife had just got a finelittle boy. He did not lose a moment in pricking the baby's finger tillthe blood ran, and he brushed it on the wrists of the stone figure,which shuddered all over and split with a loud noise in seven parts andthere was the faithful servant alive and well.When the old king saw this he foamed with rage, stared wildly about,flung himself on the ground and died.The servant stayed on with his royal master and served him faithfullyall the rest of his life. and, if neither of them is dead, he is servinghim still.