From the DanishOnce, upon a time there was a man and his wife who had two children, aboy and a girl. The wife died, and the man married again. His newwife had an only daughter, who was both ugly and untidy, whereas herstepdaughter was a beautiful girl, and was known as Maiden Bright eye.Her stepmother was very cruel to her on this account. she had always todo the hardest work, and got very little to eat, and no attention paidto her. but to her own daughter she was all that was good. She wasspared from all the hardest of the housework, and had always theprettiest clothes to wear.Maiden Bright eye had also to watch the sheep, but of course it wouldnever do to let her go idle and enjoy herself too much at this work, soshe had to pull heather while she was out on the moors with them. Herstepmother gave her pancakes to take with her for her dinner, but shehad mixed the flour with ashes, and made them just as bad as she could.The little girl came out on the moor and began to pull heather on theside of a little mound, but next minute a little fellow with a red capon his head popped up out of the mound and said:'Who's that pulling the roof off my house?''Oh, it's me, a poor little girl,' said she. 'my mother sent me outhere, and told me to pull heather. If you will be good to me I will giveyou a bit of my dinner.'The little fellow was quite willing, and she gave him the biggest shareof her pancakes. They were not particularly good, but when one is hungryanything tastes well. After he had got them all eaten he said to her:'Now, I shall give you three wishes, for you are a very nice littlegirl. but I will choose the wishes for you. You are beautiful, and muchmore beautiful shall you be. yes, so lovely that there will not be yourlike in the world. The next wish shall be that every time you open yourmouth a gold coin shall fall out of it, and your voice shall be like themost beautiful music. The third wish shall be that you may be married tothe young king, and become the queen of the country. At the same timeI shall give you a cap, which you must carefully keep, for it can saveyou, if you ever are in danger of your life, if you just put it on yourhead.Maiden Bright eye thanked the little bergman ever so often, and drovehome her sheep in the evening. By that time she had grown so beautifulthat her people could scarcely recognise her. Her stepmother asked herhow it had come about that she had grown so beautiful. She told thewhole story for she always told the truth that a little man had cometo her out on the moor and had given her all this beauty. She did nottell, however, that she had given him a share of her dinner.The stepmother thought to herself, 'If one can become so beautiful bygoing out there, my own daughter shall also be sent, for she can wellstand being made a little prettier.'Next morning she baked for her the finest cakes, and dressed herprettily to go out with the sheep. But she was afraid to go away therewithout having a stick to defend herself with if anything should comenear her.She was not very much inclined for pulling the heather, as she never wasin the habit of doing any work, but she was only a minute or so at itwhen up came the same little fellow with the red cap, and said:'Who's that pulling the roof off my house?''What's that to you?' said she.'Well, if you will give me a bit of your dinner I won't do you anymischief,' said he.'I will give you something else in place of my dinner,' said she. 'Ican easily eat it myself. but if you will have something you can havea whack of my stick,' and with that she raised it in the air and struckthe bergman over the head with it.'What a wicked little girl you are!' said he. 'but you shall be none thebetter of this. I shall give you three wishes, and choose them for you.First, I shall say, "Ugly are you, but you shall become so ugly thatthere will not be an uglier one on earth." Next I shall wish that everytime you open your mouth a big toad may fall out of it, and your voiceshall be like the roaring of a bull. In the third place I shall wish foryou a violent death.'The girl went home in the evening, and when her mother saw her she wasas vexed as she could be, and with good reason, too. but it was stillworse when she saw the toads fall out of her mouth and heard her voice.Now we must hear something about the stepson. He had gone out into theworld to look about him, and took service in the king's palace. Aboutthis time he got permission to go home and see his sister, and when hesaw how lovely and beautiful she was, he was so pleased and delightedthat when he came back to the king's palace everyone there wanted toknow what he was always so happy about. He told them that it was becausehe had such a lovely sister at home.At last it came to the ears of the king what the brother said about hissister, and, besides that, the report of her beauty spread far andwide, so that the youth was summoned before the king, who asked him ifeverything was true that was told about the girl. He said it was quitetrue, for he had seen her beauty with his own eyes, and had heard withhis own ears how sweetly she could sing and what a lovely voice she had.The king then took a great desire for her, and ordered her brother togo home and bring her back with him, for he trusted no one better toaccomplish that errand. He got a ship, and everything else that herequired, and sailed home for his sister. As soon as the stepmotherheard what his errand was she at once said to herself, 'This will nevercome about if I can do anything to hinder it. She must not be allowed tocome to such honour.'She then got a dress made for her own daughter, like the finest robe fora queen, and she had a mask prepared and put upon her face, so that shelooked quite pretty, and gave her strict orders not to take it off untilthe king had promised to wed her.The brother now set sail with his two sisters, for the stepmotherpretended that the ugly one wanted to see the other a bit on her way.But when they got out to sea, and Maiden Bright eye came up on deck,the sister did as her mother had instructed her she gave her a push andmade her fall into the water. When the brother learned what had happenedhe was greatly distressed, and did not know what to do. He could notbring himself to tell the truth about what had happened, nor did heexpect that the king would believe it. In the long run he decided tohold on his way, and let things go as they liked. What he had expectedhappened the king received his sister and wedded her at once, butrepented it after the first night, as he could scarcely put down hisfoot in the morning for all the toads that were about the room, and whenhe saw her real face he was so enraged against the brother that he hadhim thrown into a pit full of serpents. He was so angry, not merelybecause he had been deceived, but because he could not get rid of theugly wretch that was now tied to him for life.Now we shall hear a little about Maiden Bright eye When she fell intothe water she was fortunate enough to get the bergman's cap put onher head, for now she was in danger of her life, and she was at oncetransformed into a duck. The duck swam away after the ship, and came tothe king's palace on the next evening. There it waddled up the drain,and so into the kitchen, where her little dog lay on the hearth stone.it could not bear to stay in the fine chambers along with the uglysister, and had taken refuge down here. The duck hopped up till it couldtalk to the dog.'Good evening,' it said.'Thanks, Maiden Bright eye,' said the dog.'Where is my brother?''He is in the serpent pit.''Where is my wicked sister?''She is with the noble king.''Alas! alas! I am here this evening, and shall be for two evenings yet,and then I shall never come again.'When it had said this the duck waddled off again. Several of the servantgirls heard the conversation, and were greatly surprised at it, andthought that it would be worth while to catch the bird next evening andsee into the matter a little more closely. They had heard it say that itwould come again.Next evening it appeared as it had said, and a great many were presentto see it. It came waddling in by the drain, and went up to the dog,which was lying on the hearth stone.'Good evening,' it said.'Thanks, Maiden Bright eye,' said the dog.'Where is my brother?''He is in the serpent pit.''Where is my wicked sister?''She is with the noble king.''Alas! alas! I am here this evening, and shall be for one evening yet,and then I shall never come again.'After this it slipped out, and no one could get hold of it. But theking's cook thought to himself, 'I shall see if I can't get hold of youto morrow evening.'On the third evening the duck again came waddling in by the drain, andup to the dog on the hearth stone.'Good evening,' it said.'Thanks, Maiden Bright eye,' said the dog.'Where is my brother?''He is in the serpent pit.''Where is my wicked sister?''She is with the noble king.''Alas! alas! now I shall never come again.'With this it slipped out again, but in the meantime the cook had postedhimself at the outer end of the drain with a net, which he threw over itas it came out. In this way he caught it, and came in to the others withthe most beautiful duck they had ever seen with so many golden featherson it that everyone marvelled. No one, however, knew what was to bedone with it. but after what they had heard they knew that there wassomething uncommon about it, so they took good care of it.At this time the brother in the serpent pit dreamed that his rightsister had come swimming to the king's palace in the shape of a duck,and that she could not regain her own form until her beak was cut off.He got this dream told to some one, so that the king at last came tohear of it, and had him taken up out of the pit and brought beforehim. The king then asked him if he could produce to him his sister asbeautiful as he had formerly described her. The brother said he could ifthey would bring him the duck and a knife.Both of them were brought to him, and he said, 'I wonder how you wouldlook if I were to cut the point off your beak.'With this he cut a piece off the beak, and there came a voice whichsaid, 'Oh, oh, you cut my little finger!'Next moment Maiden Bright eye stood there, as lovely and beautiful as hehad seen her when he was home. This was his sister now, he said. and thewhole story now came out of how the other had behaved to her. The wickedsister was put into a barrel with spikes round it which was draggedoff by six wild horses, and so she came to her end.:But the king wasdelighted with Maiden Bright eye, and immediately made her his queen,while her brother became his prime minister.