March ab Meirchion was lord of Castellmarch, in Lleyn. He ruled overleagues of rich land, tilled by hundreds of willing and obedient vassals.He had great possessions, fleet horses, greyhounds, hawks, countless blackcattle and sheep, and a great herd of swine. (But few possessed pigs atthat time, and their flesh was esteemed better than the flesh of oxen.Arthur himself sought to have one of March's sows.) In his palace he hadmuch treasure of gold, silver, and Conway pearls, and all men envied him.But March was not happy. He had a secret, and day and night he was tornwith dread lest it should be discovered. He had horse's ears!To no one was the secret known except his barber. This man he compelledto take a solemn oath that he would not reveal his deformity to any livingsoul. If he wittingly or unwittingly should let anyone know that March'sears were other than human, March swore that he would cut his head off.The barber became as unhappy as March. Indeed his wretchedness wasgreater, because his fate would be worse if the secret were revealed.March would undergo ridicule, which is certainly a serious thing, but thebarber would undergo decapitation, which is much more serious.The secret disagreed with his constitution so violently that he losthis appetite and his color, and began to fall into a decline.So ill did he become that he had to call in a physician. This man wasskilled in his craft, and he said to the barber, "You are being killed bya suppressed secret. Unless you communicate it to someone you will soon bein your grave."This announcement did not give the barber much consolation. Heexplained to the physician that if he did as he was directed he would losehis head. If in any event he had to come to the end of his earthly career,he preferred being interred with his head joined to, rather than separatedfrom, his trunk.The physician then suggested that he should tell his secret to theground.The barber thought there was not much danger to his cervical vertebrae(this is the learned name for neck bones) if he did this, and adopted thesuggestion. He was at once relieved. His color and appetite gradually cameback, and before long he was as strong and well as he had ever been.Now it happened that a fine crop of reeds grew on the spot where thebarber whispered his secret to the ground.March prepared a great feast, and sent for one of Maelgwn Gwynedd'spipers, who was the best piper in the word, to make music for his guests.On his way to Castellmarch, the piper observed these fine reeds, and ashis old pipe was getting worn out, he cut them and made an excellent newpipe. When his guests had eaten and drunk, March ordered the piper toplay.What was the surprise of all when the pipe gave out no music, but onlythe words, "Horse's ears for March ab Meirchion, horse's ears for March abMeirchion," over and over again.March drew his sword and would have slain the piper, but the haplessmusician begged for mercy. He was not to blame, he said. He had tried toplay his wonted music, but the pipe was charmed, and do what he would, hecould get nothing out of it but the words, "Horse's ears for March abMeirchion."March tried the pipe himself, but even he could not elicit any strainsfrom it, but only the words, "Horse's ears for March ab Meirchion."So he forgave the piper and made no further effort to conceal hisdeformity.