He was so impatient that he was always full fifty yards in front of thelords and ladies sent by Tubby to bring back Zizi.At the sight of the hideous gypsy he was struck dumb with surprise andhorror.'Ah me!' said Titty, 'so you don't know your poor Zizi? While you wereaway the wicked witch came, and turned me into this. But if you onlyhave the courage to marry me I shall get back my beauty.' And she beganto cry bitterly.Now the good natured Desire was as soft hearted as he was brave.'Poor girl,' he thought to himself. 'It is not her fault, after all,that she has grown so ugly, it is mine. Oh! why did I not follow the oldman's advice? Why did I leave her alone? And besides, it depends onme to break the spell, and I love her too much to let her remain likethis.'So he presented the gypsy to the lords and ladies of the Court,explaining to them the terrible misfortune which had befallen hisbeautiful bride.They all pretended to believe it, and the ladies at once put on thefalse princess the rich dresses they had brought for Zizi.She was then perched on the top of a magnificent ambling palfrey, andthey set forth to the castle.But unluckily the rich dress and jewels only made Titty look uglierstill, and Desire could not help feeling hot and uncomfortable when hemade his entry with her into the city.Bells were pealing, chimes ringing, and the people filling the streetsand standing at their doors to watch the procession go by, and theycould hardly believe their eyes as they saw what a strange bride theirPrince had chosen.In order to do her more honour, Tubby came to meet her at the foot ofthe great marble staircase. At the sight of the hideous creature healmost fell backwards.'What!' he cried. 'Is this the wonderful beauty?''Yes, father, it is she,' replied Desire with a sheepish look. 'But shehas been bewitched by a wicked sorceress, and will not regain her beautyuntil she is my wife.''Does she say so? Well, if you believe that, you may drink cold waterand think it bacon,' the unhappy Tubby answered crossly.But all the same, as he adored his son, he gave the gypsy his hand andled her to the great hall, where the bridal feast was spread.