According to tradition, Meg of Meldon was stigmatized as a witch during her lifetime in seventeenth century Northumberland. After her death she reappeared as a ghost at regular intervals, apparently with the only goal to frighten people.An individual, well known for his skepticism in regard to ghosts, had frequently heard of Meg's achievements in frightening people, but would not credit them. He, however, had no scruple in perpetuating the belief among the credulous, so one mirk night, dressed in white, he placed himself on the parapet wall of Meldon Bridge, and there sat awaiting passers by.He had not stayed long till he found Meg herself seated alongside of him."You've come to fley (frighten)," said she, "and I've come to fley, let's baith fley thegither."At the same time she drew herself a little nearer him, while he, jealous of a too familiar intimacy, moved still further along. Meg repeated her movement, and he still shrunk from her approach. She at length came so close as to give him a push, which he hastily attempted to shun, but lost balance, and fell headlong into the water.Let us hope that Meg was rewarded with a respite for ducking the rival ghost.Another adventure in which Meg was concerned was sent me in 1877 by a clergyman in that neighborhood, in the hand writing of the narrator, a tradesman, I believe, in Whalton. I shall reproduce it pretty nearly in the language in which it was told.Two dwellers in the hamlet of Thornton who believed in Meg's appearance as a ghost, and a friend of theirs, a Scotchman, who could not be brought to credit it, sat one night after having been at the smithy, in a public house at Meldon, disputing as to her existence or non existence as a spiritual visitant. They then left in company for Thornton.At a certain part of the road one of the two believers, named Todd, gave some chains he was carrying from the smith's shop to his mate and fell behind. As soon as the other two were out of sight and hearing, he took a shortcut across a corner of a field and placed himself behind a hedge at the foot of a bank, a favorite haunt of Meg, and getting himself into the most ghostly style he could assume, he awaited their arrival.The Scotchman came up first, shouting, "Where are ye, Meg? Let's see you, Meg!" when Todd stepped out into view, saying, "Here's Meg, what want ye wi' Meg?"The other lad dropped the chains and made off, and the Scotchman after him.Todd, thinking he had overdone the thing, picked up the chains and ran after them to stop them, but the faster he ran the faster ran they, the tinkling of the chains behind keeping up their terror. The two lads had got upon Meldon Bridge over the Wansbeck, which was then a very narrow and steep structure.At the one end of it they disturbed a kyloe (a breed of Scottish highland cattle) that had got out of a field. This started out as Todd was passing, and "gave a rout," and ran headlong across the bridge behind him. Todd, taking the beast for Meg, increased his speed, the most frightened of the three. Thus there were three men and a kyloe all terrified and running at their utmost pith.The three men arrived home in a serious state of fear, from which they were long recovering.The narrator adds a remark of identification. "Todd was said to be the father or grandfather to Jack Todd, the wood wagoner. Both the public houses in Meldon were closed before my day."