Bacchus, on a certain occasion, found his old schoolmaster andfoster father, Silenus, missing. The old man had been drinking, and inthat state wandered away, and was found by some peasants, who carried himto their king, Midas. Midas recognized him, and treated him hospitably,entertaining him for ten days and nights with an unceasing round ofjollity. On the eleventh day he brought Silenus back, and restored him insafety to his pupil. Whereupon Bacchus offered Midas his choice of areward, whatever he might wish. He asked that whatever he might touchshould be changed into gold. Bacchus consented, though sorry that he hadnot made a better choice.Midas went his way, rejoicing in his new acquired power, which hehastened to put to the test. He could scarce believe his eyes when hefound a twig of an oak, which he plucked from the branch, become gold inhis hand. He took up a stone. it changed to gold. He touched a sod. it didthe same. He took up an apple from the tree. you would have thought he hadrobbed the garden of the Hesperides. His joy knew no bounds, and as soonas he got home, he ordered the servants to set a splendid repast on thetable. Then he found to his dismay that whether he touched bread, ithardened in his hand. or put a morsel to his lip, it defied his teeth. Hetook a glass of wine, but it flowed down his throat like melted gold.In consternation at the unprecedented affliction, he strove to divesthimself of his power. he hated the gift he had lately coveted. But all invain. starvation seemed to await him. He raised his arms, all shining withgold, in prayer to Bacchus, begging to be delivered from his glitteringdestruction. Bacchus, merciful deity, heard and consented. "Go," said he,"to River Pactolus, trace its fountain head, there plunge yourself andbody in, and wash away your fault and its punishment." He did so, andscarce had he touched the waters before the gold creating power passedinto them, and the river sands became changed into gold, as they remain tothis day.Thenceforth Midas, hating wealth and splendor, dwelt in the country,and became a worshipper of Pan, the god of the fields. On a certainoccasion Pan had the temerity to compare his music with that of Apollo,and to challenge the god of the lyre to a trial of skill. The challengewas accepted, and Tmolus, the mountain god, was chosen umpire. The seniortook his seat, and cleared away the trees from his ears to listen.At a given signal Pan blew on his pipes, and with his rustic melodygave great satisfaction to himself and his faithful follower Midas, whohappened to be present. Then Tmolus turned his head toward the Sun god,and all his trees turned with him. Apollo rose, his brow wreathed withParnassian laurel, while his robe of Tyrian purple swept the ground. Inhis left hand he held the lyre, and with his right hand struck thestrings. Ravished with the harmony, Tmolus at once awarded the victory tothe god of the lyre, and all but Midas acquiesced in the judgment. Hedissented, and questioned the justice of the award. Apollo would notsuffer such a depraved pair of ears any longer to wear the human form, butcaused them to increase in length, grow hairy, within and without, andmovable on their roots. in short, to be on the perfect pattern of those ofan ass.Mortified enough was King Midas at this mishap: but he consoled himselfwith the thought that it was possible to hide his misfortune, which heattempted to do by means of an ample turban or head dress. But hishairdresser of course knew the secret. He was charged not to mention it,and threatened with dire punishment if he presumed to disobey. But hefound it too much for his discretion to keep such a secret. so he went outinto the meadow, dug a hole in the ground, and stooping down, whisperedthe story, and covered it up. Before long a thick bed of reeds sprang upin the meadow, and as soon as it had gained its growth, began whisperingthe story, and has continued to do so, from that day to this, every time abreeze passes over the place.