In a certain place there once lived a merchant by the name of Nanduka, which means "cheerful one" and a merchant by the name of Lakschmana, which means "fortunate one." The latter, who had lost all his wealth, decided to travel abroad. For it is said: A person who has lived well in a particular place, but who stays there after he has lost his wealth, is of common mind. And further: A person who, reduced to misery, remains at a place where he once was happy, is worthy of reproach.In his house there was a large set of heavy iron scales that had been acquired by his ancestors. He gave these to the guild master Nanduka for safekeeping, and set forth for foreign lands.After he had pursued his desires for a long time abroad, he returned to his homeland, and said to the guild master Nanduka, "Guild master, give me back the scales that I left here for safekeeping."Nanduka replied, "Oh, your scales are no longer here. The mice ate them up."When he heard this, Lakschmana said, "Well, Nanduka, if the mice ate them up, then it is through no fault of yours. That is the way of the world. Nothing in it is eternal. But now I would like to bathe myself in the river. Send your child with me, the boy named Dhanadeva, to carry my bathing things."Nanduka, fearing Lakschama because of the theft he had committed against him, said to his son, "Child, your uncle Lakschmana wants to take a bath in the river. Go with him and carry his bathing things."Yes, with truth they say: No one does a favor for another, unless driven by fear, greed, or some other purpose. And further: If someone shows you unusual courtesy, be cautious, lest it lead to a bad end.Nanduka's son, carrying the bathing things, set forth happily with Lakschmana. After taking his bath, Lakschmana threw Nanduka's son Dhanadeva into a cave on the bank of the river, and sealed the opening with a large stone. Then he rushed back to Nanduka's house.The merchant asked him, "Speak up, Lakschmana! Tell me, where is my child who went to the river with you?"Lakschmana said, "He was taken away from the river's bank by a falcon."The merchant cried, "You liar! How in the world can a falcon steal a boy? Give me back my son, or I will bring action against you at the king's court."Lakschmana said, "Oh, you who always speak the truth! A falcon can carry away a boy, if mice can eat a large set of heavy iron scales. If you want your son back, then give me my scales!"Thus quarreling one with another, they went to the king's gate, where Nanduka cried out loudly, "A dastardly crime has happened here! This thief has robbed me of my child!"Hearing this, the judges said to Lakschmana, "Return the guild master's son to him!"Lakschmana answered, "What can I do? Before my very eyes a falcon carried him away from the bank of the river."Hearing this, they said, "You do not tell the truth. How could a falcon be capable of carrying off a fifteen year old boy?"Lakschmana answered, laughing, "Ha! Listen to this proverb: When mice can eat a thousand pounds of iron, then a falcon can carry away an elephant, to say nothing of a little boy. "The judges said, "What do you mean by that?"Then Lakschmana told the whole story about the scales. After hearing this, they laughed at what Nanduka and Lakschmana had done, reconciled the two with each other, and made them respectively return the scales and the boy.