There was once a little boy, whose father and mother, when they weredying, left him to the care of a guardian. But the guardian whom theychose turned out to be a wicked man, and spent all the money, so the boydetermined to go away and strike out a path for himself.So one day he set off, and walked and walked through woods and meadowstill when evening came he was very tired, and did not know where tosleep. He climbed a hill and looked about him to see if there was nolight shining from a window. At first all seemed dark, but at length henoticed a tiny spark far, far off, and, plucking up his spirits, he atonce went in search of it.The night was nearly half over before he reached the spark, which turnedout to be a big fire, and by the fire a man was sleeping who was sotall he might have been a giant. The boy hesitated for a moment what heshould do. then he crept close up to the man, and lay down by his legs.When the man awoke in the morning he was much surprised to find the boynestling up close to him.'Dear me! where do you come from?' said he.'I am your son, born in the night,' replied the boy.'If that is true,' said the man, 'you shall take care of my sheep, and Iwill give you food. But take care you never cross the border of my land,or you will repent it.' Then he pointed out where the border of his landlay, and bade the boy begin his work at once.The young shepherd led his flock out to the richest meadows and stayedwith them till evening, when he brought them back, and helped the man tomilk them. When this was done, they both sat down to supper, and whilethey were eating the boy asked the big man: 'What is your name, father?''Mogarzea,' answered he.'I wonder you are not tired of living by yourself in this lonely place.''There is no reason you should wonder! Don't you know that there wasnever a bear yet who danced of his own free will?''Yes, that is true,' replied the boy. 'But why is it you are always sosad? Tell me your history, father.''What is the use of my telling you things that would only make you sadtoo?''Oh, never mind that! I should like to hear. Are you not my father, andam I not your son?''Well, if you really want to know my story, this is it: As I told you,my name is Mogarzea, and my father is an emperor. I was on my way to theSweet Milk Lake, which lies not far from here, to marry one of the threefairies who have made the lake their home. But on the road three wickedelves fell on me, and robbed me of my soul, so that ever since I havestayed in this spot watching my sheep without wishing for anythingdifferent, without having felt one moment's joy, or ever once being ableto laugh. And the horrible elves are so ill natured that if anyone setsone foot on their land he is instantly punished. That is why I warn youto be careful, lest you should share my fate.''All right, I will take great care. Do let me go, father,' said the boy,as they stretched themselves out to sleep.At sunrise the boy got up and led his sheep out to feed, and forsome reason he did not feel tempted to cross into the grassy meadowsbelonging to the elves, but let his flock pick up what pasture theycould on Mogarzea's dry ground.On the third day he was sitting under the shadow of a tree, playingon his flute and there was nobody in the world who could play a flutebetter when one of his sheep strayed across the fence into the floweryfields of the elves, and another and another followed it. But the boywas so absorbed in his flute that he noticed nothing till half the flockwere on the other side.He jumped up, still playing on his flute, and went after the sheep,meaning to drive them back to their own side of the border, whensuddenly he saw before him three beautiful maidens who stopped in frontof him, and began to dance. The boy understood what he must do, andplayed with all his might, but the maidens danced on till evening.'Now let me go,' he cried at last, 'for poor Mogarzea must be dying ofhunger. I will come and play for you to morrow.''Well, you may go!' they said, 'but remember that even if you break yourpromise you will not escape us.'So they both agreed that the next day he should come straight there withthe sheep, and play to them till the sun went down. This being settled,they each returned home.Mogarzea was surprised to find that his sheep gave so much more milkthan usual, but as the boy declared he had never crossed the border thebig man did not trouble his head further, and ate his supper heartily.With the earliest gleams of light, the boy was off with his sheep to theelfin meadow, and at the first notes of his flute the maidens appearedbefore him and danced and danced and danced till evening came. Then theboy let the flute slip through his fingers, and trod on it, as if byaccident.If you had heard the noise he made, and how he wrung his hands and weptand cried that he had lost his only companion, you would have been sorryfor him. The hearts of the elves were quite melted, and they did allthey could to comfort him.'I shall never find another flute like that, moaned he. 'I have neverheard one whose tone was as sweet as mine! It was cut from the centre ofa seven year old cherry tree!''There is a cherry tree in our garden that is exactly seven years old,'said they. 'Come with us, and you shall make yourself another flute.'So they all went to the cherry tree, and when they were standing roundit the youth explained that if he tried to cut it down with an axe hemight very likely split open the heart of the tree, which was needed forthe flute. In order to prevent this, he would make a little cut in thebark, just large enough for them to put their fingers in, and with thishelp he could manage to tear the tree in two, so that the heart shouldrun no risk of damage. The elves did as he told them without a thought.then he quickly drew out the axe, which had been sticking into thecleft, and behold! all their fingers were imprisoned tight in the tree.It was in vain that they shrieked with pain and tried to freethemselves. They could do nothing, and the young man remained cold asmarble to all their entreaties.Then he demanded of them Mogarzea's soul.'Oh, well, if you must have it, it is in a bottle on the window sill,'said they, hoping that they might obtain their freedom at once. But theywere mistaken.'You have made so many men suffer,' answered he sternly, 'that it is butjust you should suffer yourselves, but to morrow I will let you go.' Andhe turned towards home, taking his sheep and the soul of Mogarzea withhim.Mogarzea was waiting at the door, and as the boy drew near he beganscolding him for being so late. But at the first word of explanation theman became beside himself with joy, and he sprang so high into the airthat the false soul which the elves had given him flew out of his mouth,and his own, which had been shut tightly into the flask of water, tookits place.When his excitement had somewhat calmed down, he cried to the boy,'Whether you are really my son matters nothing to me. tell me, how can Irepay you for what you have done for me?''By showing me where the Milk Lake is, and how I can get one of thethree fairies who lives there to wife, and by letting me remain your sonfor ever.'The night was passed by Mogarzea and his son in songs and feasting, forboth were too happy to sleep, and when day dawned they set out togetherto free the elves from the tree. When they reached the place of theirimprisonment, Mogarzea took the cherry tree and all the elves with it onhis back, and carried them off to his father's kingdom, where everyonerejoiced to see him home again. But all he did was to point to the boywho had saved him, and had followed him with his flock.For three days the boy stayed in the palace, receiving the thanks andpraises of the whole court. Then he said to Mogarzea:'The time has come for me to go hence, but tell me, I pray you, how tofind the Sweet Milk Lake, and I will return, and will bring my wife backwith me.'Mogarzea tried in vain to make him stay, but, finding it was useless, hetold him all he knew, for he himself had never seen the lake.For three summer days the boy and his flute journeyed on, till oneevening he reached the lake, which lay in the kingdom of a powerfulfairy. The next morning had scarcely dawned when the youth went downto the shore, and began to play on his flute, and the first notes hadhardly sounded when he saw a beautiful fairy standing before him, withhair and robes that shone like gold. He gazed at her in wonder, whensuddenly she began to dance. Her movements were so graceful thathe forgot to play, and as soon as the notes of his flute ceased shevanished from his sight. The next day the same thing happened, but onthe third he took courage, and drew a little nearer, playing on hisflute all the while. Suddenly he sprang forward, seized her in his armsand kissed her, and plucked a rose from her hair.The fairy gave a cry, and begged him to give her back her rose, but hewould not. He only stuck the rose in his hat, and turned a deaf ear toall her prayers.At last she saw that her entreaties were vain, and agreed to marry him,as he wished. And they went together to the palace, where Mogarzea wasstill waiting for him, and the marriage was celebrated by the emperorhimself. But every May they returned to the Milk Lake, they and theirchildren, and bathed in its waters.(Olumanische Marchen.)The Lion and the CraneThe Bodhisatta was at one time born in the region of Himavanta as awhite crane. now Brahmadatta was at that time reigning in Benares. Nowit chanced that as a lion was eating meat a bone stuck in his throat.The throat became swollen, he could not take food, his suffering wasterrible. The crane seeing him, as he was perched on a tree lookingfor food, asked, "What ails thee, friend?" He told him why. "I couldfree thee from that bone, friend, but dare not enter thy mouth forfear thou mightest eat me." "Don't be afraid, friend, I'll not eatthee. only save my life." "Very well," says he, and caused him to liedown on his left side. But thinking to himself, "Who knows what thisfellow will do," he placed a small stick upright between his two jawsthat he could not close his mouth, and inserting his head inside hismouth struck one end of the bone with his beak. Whereupon the bonedropped and fell out. As soon as he had caused the bone to fall, hegot out of the lion's mouth, striking the stick with his beak so thatit fell out, and then settled on a branch. The lion gets well, andone day was eating a buffalo he had killed. The crane thinking "I willsound him," settled on a branch just over him, and in conversationspoke this first verse:"A service have we done theeTo the best of our ability,King of the Beasts! Your Majesty!What return shall we get from thee?"In reply the Lion spoke the second verse:"As I feed on blood,And always hunt for prey,'Tis much that thou art still aliveHaving once been between my teeth."Then in reply the crane said the two other verses:"Ungrateful, doing no good,Not doing as he would be done by,In him there is no gratitude,To serve him is useless."His friendship is not wonBy the clearest good deed.Better softly withdraw from him,Neither envying nor abusing."And having thus spoken the crane flew away._And when the great Teacher, Gautama the Buddha, told this tale, heused to add: "Now at that time the lion was Devadatta the Traitor, butthe white crane was I myself."_