Once upon a time there was a man and a wife had too many children,and they could not get meat for them, so they took the threeyoungestand left them in a wood.They traveled and traveled and could never see a house.It began to be dark, and they were hungry.At last they saw a light and made for it.it turned out to be a house.They knocked at the door, and a woman came to it, who said, "Whatdo you want?"They said, "Please let us in and give us something to eat."The woman said, "I can't do that, as my man is a giant, and hewould kill you if he comes home."They begged hard. "Let us stop for a little while," said they,"and we will go away before he comes."So she took them in, and set them down before the fire, and gavethem milk and bread.but just as they had begun to eat, a great knock came to the door,and a dreadful voice said:Fee, fie, fo, fum,I smell the blood of some earthly one."Who have you there, wife?""Eh," said the wife, "it's three poor lassies cold and hungry, andthey will go away.Ye won't touch, 'em, man."He said nothing, but ate up a big supper, and ordered them to stayall night.Now he had three lassies of his own, and they were to sleep in thesame bed with the three strangers.The youngest of the three strange lassies was called MollyWhuppie, and she was very clever.She noticed that before they went to bed the giant put straw ropesround her neck and her sisters',and round his own lassies' necks, he put gold chains.So Molly took care and did not fall asleep, but waited till shewas sure everyone was sleeping sound.Then she slipped out of bed, and took the straw ropes off her ownand her sisters' necks,and took the gold chains off the giant's lassies.She then put the straw ropes on the giant's lassies and the goldon herself and her sisters, and lay down.And in the middle of the night up rose the giant,armed with a great club, and felt for the necks with the straw.It was dark. He took his own lassies out of the bed on to thefloor,and battered them until they were dead, and then lay down again,thinking he had managed finely.Molly thought it time she and her sisters were off and away, soshe wakened them and told them to be quiet, and they slipped outof the house. They all got out safe, and they ran and ran, andnever stopped until morning, when they saw a grand house beforethem.It turned out to be a king's house. so Molly went in, and told herstory to the king.He said, "Well, Molly, you are a clever girl, and you have managedwell.but, if you would manage better, and go back, and steal thegiant's sword that hangs on the back of his bed, I would give youreldest sister my eldest son to marry."Molly said she would try. So she went back, and managed to slipinto the giant's house, and crept in below the bed. The giant camehome, and ate up a great supper, and went to bed. Molly waiteduntil he was snoring, and she crept out, and reached over thegiant and got down the sword. but just as she got it out over thebed it gave a rattle, and up jumped the giant, and Molly ran outat the door and the sword with her. and she ran, and he ran, tillthey came to the "Bridge of one hair". and she got over, but hecouldn't and he says, "Woe worth ye, Molly Whuppie! never ye comeagain."And she says: "Twice yet, carle," quoth she, "I'll come to Spain."So Molly took the sword to the king, and her sister was married tohis son.Well, the king he says, "Ye've managed well, Molly. but if yewould manage better, and steal the purse that lies below thegiant's pillow, I would marry your second sister to my secondson."And Molly said she would try. So she set out for the giant'shouse, and slipped in, and hid again below the bed, and waitedtill the giant had eaten his supper, and was snoring sound asleep.She slipped out and slipped her hand below the pillow, and got outthe purse. but just as she was going out the giant wakened, andran after her. and she ran, and he ran, till they came to the"Bridge of one hair," and she got over, but he couldn't, and hesaid, "Woe worth ye, Molly Whuppie! never you come again.""Once yet, carle," quoth she, "I'll come to Spain." So Molly tookthe purse to the king, and her second sister was married to theking's second son.After that the king says to Molly, "Molly, you are a clever girl,but if you would do better yet, and steal the giant's ring that hewears on his finger, I will give you my youngest son foryourself."Molly said she would try. So back she goes to the giant's house,and hides herself below the bed. The giant wasn't long ere he camehome, and, after he had eaten a great big supper, he went to hisbed, and shortly was snoring loud. Molly crept out and reachedover the bed, and got hold of the giant's hand, and she pulled andshe pulled until she got off the ring. but just as she got it offthe giant got up, and gripped her by the hand and he says, "Now Ihave caught you, Molly Whuppie. and, if I done as much ill to youas ye have done to me, what would ye do to me?"Molly says, "I would put you into a sack, and I'd put the catinside wi' you, and the dog aside you, and a needle and thread andshears, and I'd hang you up upon the wall, and I'd go to the wood,and choose the thickest stick I could get, and I would come home,and take you down, and bang you till you were dead.""Well, Molly," says the giant, "I'll just do that to you.So he gets a sack, and puts Molly into it, and the cat and the dogbeside her, and a needle and thread and shears, and hangs her upupon the wall, and goes to the wood to choose a stick.Molly she sings out, "Oh, if ye saw what I see.""Oh," says the giant's wife, "what do you see, Molly?"But Molly never said a word but, "Oh, if ye saw what I see!"The giants wife begged that Molly would take her up into the sacktill she would see what Molly saw.So Molly took the shears and cut a hole in the sack, and took outthe needle and thread with her, and jumped down and helped thegiants wife up into the sack, and sewed up the hole.The giant's wife saw nothing, and began to ask to get down again.but Molly never minded, but hid herself at the back of the door.Home came the giant, and a great big tree in his hand, and he tookdown the sack, and began to batter it.His wife cried, "It's me, man". but the dog barked and the catmewed, and he did not know his wife's voice.But Molly came out from the back of the door, and the giant sawher and he ran after her. and he ran, and she ran, till they cameto the "Bridge of one hair," and she got over, but he couldn't.and he said, "Woe worth you, Mollie Whuppie! never you comeagain.""Never more, carle," quoth she, "will I come again to Spain."So Molly took the ring to the king, and she was married to hisyoungest son, and she never saw the giant again.