A king had four daughters, and his wife died, and he said he would marryanyone whom his dead wife's clothes would fit. One day the daughterstried, and the youngest only could wear them.The king saw them from a window, and wished to marry her, and she went foradvice to her mother's brother. He advised her to promise to marry theking if he would bring her a gown of birds' down, and a gown of the colorsof the sky, woven with silver. and when he got that, a gown of the colorsof the stars, woven with gold, and glass shoes.When he had got them, she escaped with all her clothes, by the help of heruncle, on a filly, with a magic bridle, she on one side, and her chest ofclothes on the other. She rode to a king's palace, hid the chest in a hillunder a bush of rushes, turned the filly loose, and went to the palacewith nothing on but a white petticoat and a shift. She took service withthe cook, and grew dirty and ugly, and slept on a bench by the kitchenfire, and her work was to blow under the great caldron all day long.One day the king's son came home, and was to hold a feast. she went to thequeen and asked leave to go, and was refused because she was so dirty. Thequeen had a basin of water in her hand, and threw it at her, and it broke.She went to the hill, took out the dress of down and silver, and shook hermagic bridle. the filly came, and she mounted, and rode to the feast.The king's son took her by the hand, and took her up as high as any there,and set her on his own lap. and when the feast was over, there was no reelthat he danced but he gave it to her.He asked her whence she came, and she said, "From the kingdom of BrokenBasins," and the prince said that he had never heard of that land, thoughhe had travelled far.She escaped and returned to the cook, and all were talking about thebeautiful lady. She asked about her, and was told not to talk about whatshe did not understand, "a dirty little wretch like her."Then the prince had another feast. and she asked leave again, and thequeen refused, and threw a candlestick at her, and it broke, and she didas before. She put on another dress and went. the king's son had eight menon each side of the door to catch her. The same scene went on, and shesaid she came from the country of Candlesticks, and escaped, leaving aglass shoe.Then the king's son fell sick (of course), and would only marry the womanwhom the shoe would fit. and all the ladies came and cut off their toesand heels, but in vain. Then he asked if there was none other.Then a small creature put his head in at the door and said, "If thou didstbut know, she whom thou seekest is under the cook."Then he got the history of the basin and candlestick from his mother. Theshoe was tried and fitted, and he was to marry Morag.All were in despair, and abused her. but she went out to her chest, shookthe magic bridle, and arrayed herself, and came back on the filly, with a"powney" behind with the chest. Then all there that had despised her fellon their knees, and she was married to the prince."And I did not get a bit there at the wedding," said the girl.This was told as we walked along the road, and is but a short outline ofwhat was told me, written from notes made in the evening. The man saidthat the girl told it with a great deal of the queer old language, whichhe could not remember.The girl and her chest on the same horse may be seen in the Highlands. Thegirl, in her white coats and short gown, may be seen blowing the fire inhighland inns, the queen's likeness might be found. and the feast is ahighland ball. the filly and the magic bridle are common in other stories.the incidents of the basin and candlestick have an equivalent in Norse.and I got them from a woman at the Sound of Barra afterwards, in anotherstory. This shows what may be lost by dignified traveling. While the manwas enjoying himself in the kitchen, the employer was smoking in solitarydignity, upstairs in his bedroom, writing a journal, and utterlyunconscious that the game he pursued was so near.I have other versions of this tale from other sources, and may find roomfor them hereafter.