(_As told by an Irish Peasant._)Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said hisprayers, and ate his food. and he asked God to prosper the day for him.and he went down to the brink of the sea, and he saw a currach, shortand green, coming towards him. and in it there was but one youthfulchampion, and he playing hurly from prow to stern of the currach. He hada hurl of gold and a ball of silver. and he stopped not until thecurrach was in on the shore. and he drew her up on the green grass, andput fastening on her for a day and a year, whether he should be thereall that time, or should only be on land for an hour by the clock. AndMorraha saluted the young man in words intelligent, intelligible, suchas were spoken at that time. and the other saluted him in the samefashion, and asked him would he play a game of cards with him. andMorraha said he had not the wherewithal. and the other answered that hewas never without a candle or the making of it. and he put his hand inhis pocket and drew out a table and two chairs and a pack of cards, andthey sat down on the chairs and went to the card playing. The first gameMorraha won, and the slender red champion bade him make his claim. andhe said that the land above him should be filled with stock of sheep inthe morning. It was well, and he played no second game, but home hewent.The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young mancame in the currach and asked him would he play cards. and they played,and Morraha won. And the young man bade him make his claim. and he saidthat the land above should be filled with cattle in the morning. It waswell, and he played no other game, but went home.And on the third morning Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and hesaw the young man coming. And he drew up his boat on the shore, andasked him would he play cards. And they played, and Morraha won thegame. and the young man bade him give his claim. And he said he shouldhave a castle, and of women the finest and fairest. and they were his.It was well, and the young man went away.On the fourth day the woman asked him how he had found himself, and hetold her. "And I am going out," said he, "to play again to day.""I cross (forbid) you go again to him. If you have won so much, youwill lose more. and have no more to do with him."But he went against her will, and he saw the currach coming, and theyoung man was driving his balls from end to end of the currach. He hadballs of silver and a hurl of gold, and he stopped not till he drew hisboat on the shore, and made her fast for a year and a day. And Morrahaand he saluted each other. and he asked Morraha if he would play a gameof cards, and they played and he won. And Morraha said to him, "Giveyour claim, now."Said he, "You will hear it too soon. I lay on you the bonds of the artof the Druid not to sleep two nights in one house, nor finish a secondmeal at the one table, till you bring me the sword of light and news ofthe death of Anshgayliacht."He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, andthe chair broke in pieces."It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife. "and youhad better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you."He said to her to bring news of the death of Anshgayliacht and the swordof light to the slender red champion."Go out," said she, "in the morning of the morrow, and take the bridlein the window and shake it. and whatever beast, handsome or ugly, putsthe head in it, take that one with you. Do not speak a word to her tillshe speaks to you. and take with you three pint bottles of ale and threesixpenny loaves, and do the thing she tells you. and when she runs to myfather's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, andthe bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land.And if the son of a king or queen is there, bring him to me on yourshoulders. but if it is the son of a poor man, let him come no further."He rose in the morning, and took the bridle that was in the window andwent out and shook it, and Brown Allree came and put her head in it. Andhe took the three loaves and three bottles of ale, and went riding. andwhen he was riding, she bent her head down to take hold of her feet withher mouth, in hopes he would speak in ignorance. but he spoke not a wordduring the time, and the mare at last spoke to him, and said to him todismount and give her her dinner. He gave her the sixpenny loaf toastedand a bottle of ale to drink. "Sit up, now, riding and take good heed ofyourself: there are three miles of fire I have to clear at a leap."She cleared the three miles of fire at a leap, and asked if he wereriding, and he said he was. They went on then, and she told him todismount and give her a meal. and he did so, and gave her a sixpennyloaf and a bottle. and she consumed them, and said to him there werebefore them three miles of hill covered with steel thistles, and thatshe must clear it. And she cleared the hill with a leap, and she askedhim if he were still riding, and he said he was. They went on, and shewent not far before she told him to give her a meal, and he gave her thebread and the bottleful. And she went over three miles of sea with aleap, and she came then to the land of the King of France. and she wentup on a height above the castle, and she shook herself and neighed, andthe bells rang. and the King said that it was Brown Allree was in theland. "Go out," said he, "and if it is the son of a king or queen, carryhim in on your shoulders. if it is not, leave him there."They went out, and the stars of the son of a king were on his breast.and they lifted him high on their shoulders and bore him in to the King.And they passed the night cheerfully with playing and with drinking,with sport and with diversion, till the whiteness of the day came uponthe morrow morning.Then the young King told the cause of his journey, and he asked of theQueen her counsel and consent, and to give him counsel and good luck,and the woman told him everything she advised him to do. "Go now," saidshe, "and take with you the best mare in the stable, and go to the doorof Rough Niall of the speckled rock, and knock, and call on him to giveyou news of the death of Anshgayliacht and the sword of light. and letthe horse's back be to the door, and apply the spurs, and away withyou!"And in the morning he did so, and he took the best horse from the stableand rode to the door of Niall, and turned the horse's back to the door,and demanded news of the death of Anshgayliacht, and the sword of light.and he applied the spurs, and away with him. And Niall followed him, andas he was passing the gate cut the horse in two. And the mother wasthere with a dish of puddings and flesh, and she threw it in his eyesand blinded him, and said, "Fool, whatever kind of man it is that'smocking you, isn't that a fine condition you have got into on yourfather's horse?"On the morning of the next day Morraha rose and took another horse fromthe stable, and went again to the door of Niall, and knocked anddemanded news of the death of Anshgayliacht, and the sword of light, andapplied the spurs to the horse, and away with him. And Niall followed,and as he was passing the gate cut the horse in two, and took half thesaddle with him, and his mother met him, and threw the flesh in his eyesand blinded him.And on the third day Morraha went also to the door of Niall. and Niallfollowed him, and as he was passing the gate cut away the saddle fromunder him and the clothes from his back. Then his mother said to Niall:"Whatever fool it is that's mocking you, he is out yonder in the littlecurrach, going home. and take good heed to yourself, and don't sleep onewink for three days."And for three days the little currach was there before him, and then hismother came to him and said:"Sleep as much as you want now. He is gone."And he went to sleep, and there was heavy sleep on him, and Morraha wentin and took hold of the sword that was on the bed at his head. And thesword thought to draw itself out of the hand of Morraha, but it failed.And then it gave a cry, and it wakened Niall, and Niall said it was arude and rough thing to come into his house like that. and Morraha saidto him:"Leave your much talking, or I will cut the head off you. Tell me thenews of the death of Anshgayliacht.""Oh, you can have my head.""But your head is no good to me. Tell me the story.""Oh," said Niall's wife, "you must get the story.""Oh," said Morraha, "is the woman your wife?""Oh," said the man, "is it not you that have the story?""Oh," said she, "you will tell it to us.""Well," said the man, "let us sit down together till I tell the story. Ithought no one would ever get it, but now it will be heard by all."When I was growing up my mother taught me the language of the birds, andwhen I got married I used to be listening to their conversation. and Iwould be laughing. and my wife would be asking me what was the reason ofmy laughing, but I did not like to tell her, as women are always askingquestions. We went out walking one fine morning, and the birds werearguing with one another. One of them said to another:"Why should you be making comparison with me, when there is not a kingnor knight that does not come to look at my tree?""Oh, what advantage has your tree over mine, on which there are threerods of magic and mastery growing?"When I heard them arguing, and knew that the rods were there, I began tolaugh."Oh," said my wife, "why are you always laughing? I believe it is atmyself you are jesting, and I'll walk with you no more.""Oh, it is not about you I am laughing. It is because I understand thelanguage of the birds."Then I had to tell her what the birds were saying to one another. andshe was greatly delighted, and she asked me to go home, and she gaveorders to the cook to have breakfast ready at six o'clock in themorning. I did not know why she was going out early, and breakfast wasready in the morning at the hour she appointed. She asked me to go outwalking. I went with her. She went to the tree, and asked me to cut arod for her."Oh, I will not cut it. Are we not better without it?""I will not leave this till I get the rod, to see if there is any goodin it."I cut the rod, and gave it to her. She turned from me, and struck a blowon a stone and changed it. and she struck a second blow on me, and madeof me a black raven, and she went home, and left me after her. I thoughtshe would come back. she did not come, and I had to go into a tree tillmorning. In the morning, at six o'clock, there was a bellman out,proclaiming that everyone who killed a raven would get a fourpenny bit.At last you would not find man or boy without a gun, nor, if you were towalk three miles, a raven that was not killed. I had to make a nest inthe top of the parlour chimney, and hide myself all day till night came,and go out to pick up a bit to support me, till I spent a month. Hereshe is herself (to say) if it is a lie I am telling."It is not," said she.Then I saw her out walking. I went up to her, and I thought she wouldturn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made ofme an old white horse, and she ordered me to be put to a cart with a manto draw stones from morning till night. I was worse off then. Shespread abroad a report that I had died suddenly in my bed, and prepareda coffin, and waked me, and buried me. Then she had no trouble. But whenI got tired, I began to kill everyone who came near me, and I used to gointo the haggard every night and destroy the stacks of corn. and when aman came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke hisbones. Everyone got afraid of me. When she saw I was doing mischief, shecame to meet me, and I thought she would change me. And she did changeme, and made a fox of me. When I saw she was doing me every sort ofdamage, I went away from her. I knew there was a badger's hole in thegarden, and I went there till night came, and I made great slaughteramong the ducks and geese. There she is herself to say if I am telling alie."Oh, you are telling nothing but the truth, only less than the truth."When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into thegarden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. She came to me, andmade me a wolf. I had to be off, and go to an island, where no one atall would see me, and now and then I used to be killing sheep, for therewere not many of them, and I was afraid of being seen and hunted. and soI passed a year, till a shepherd saw me among the sheep, and a pursuitwas made after me. And when the dogs came near me, there was no placefor me to escape to from them. but I recognised the sign of the Kingamong the men, and I made for him, and the King cried out to stop thehounds. I took a leap upon the front of the King's saddle, and the womanbehind cried out, "My King and my lord, kill him, or he will kill you.""Oh, he will not kill me. He knew me. and must be pardoned."And the King took me home with him, and gave orders that I should bewell cared for. I was so wise when I got food I would not eat one morseluntil I got a knife and fork. The man told the King, and the King cameto see if it was true, and I got a knife and fork, and I took the knifein one paw and the fork in the other, and I bowed to the King. The Kinggave orders to bring him drink, and it came. and the King filled a glassof wine, and gave it to me.I took hold of it in my paw, and drank it, and thanked the King."Oh, on my honour, it is some king that has lost him when he came on theisland. and I will keep him, as he is trained. and perhaps he willserve us yet."And this is the sort of King he was a King who had not a child living.Eight sons were born to him and three daughters, and they were stolenthe same night they were born. No matter what guard was placed overthem, the child would be gone in the morning. The Queen was now carryingthe twelfth child, and when she was lying in, the King took me with himto watch the baby. The women were not satisfied with me. "Oh," said theKing, "what was all your watching ever? One that was born to me I havenot. and I will leave this one in the dog's care, and he will not let itgo."A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went tosleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime.but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw thehand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that ittook round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I caughthold of the hand above the wrist, and, as I was fastened to the cradle,I did not let go my hold till I cut the hand from the wrist, and therewas a howl from the person without. I laid the hand in the cradle withthe child, and, as I was tired, I fell asleep. and when I awoke I hadneither child nor hand. and I began to howl, and the King heard me, andhe cried out that something was wrong with me, and he sent servants tosee what was the matter with me, and when the messenger came he saw mecovered with blood, and he could not see the child. and he went to theKing, and told him the child was not to be got. The King came, and sawthe cradle coloured with the blood, and he cried out, "Where was thechild gone?" and everyone said it was the dog had eaten it.The King said, "It is not: loose him, and he will get the pursuithimself."When I was loosed, I found the scent of the blood till I came to a doorof the room in which the child was. I went to the King, and took hold ofhim, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The Kingfollowed me, and asked for the key. The servant said it was in the roomof the stranger woman. The King caused search to be made for her, andshe was not to be found. "I will break the door," said the King, "as Ican't get the key." The King broke the door, and I went in, and went tothe trunk, and the King asked for a key to unlock it. He got no key, andhe broke the lock. When he opened the trunk the child and the hand werestretched side by side, and the child was asleep. The King took thehand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the handto everyone in the house. But the stranger woman was gone, and she didnot see the King. and here she is herself to say if I am telling lies ofher."Oh, it's nothing but the truth you have."The King did not allow me to be tied any more. He said there was nothingso much to wonder at as that I cut the hand off, and I tied.The child was growing till he was a year old, and he was beginning towalk, and there was no one caring for him more than I was. He wasgrowing till he was three, and he was running out every minute. so theKing ordered a silver chain to be put between me and the child, so thathe might not go away from me. I was out with him in the garden everyday, and the King was as proud as the world of the child. He would bewatching him every place we went, till the child grew so wise that hewould loose the chain and get off. But one day that he loosed it Ifailed to find him. and I ran into the house and searched the house, butthere was no getting him for me. The King cried to go out and find thechild, that he had got loose from the dog. They went searching for him,but they could not find him. When they failed altogether to find him,there remained no more favour with the King towards me, and everyonedisliked me, and I grew weak, for I did not get a morsel to eat half thetime. When summer came I said I would try and go home to my own country.I went away one fine morning, and I went swimming, and God helped metill I came home. I went into the garden, for I knew there was a placein the garden where I could hide myself, for fear she should see me. Inthe morning I saw my wife out walking, and my child with her, held bythe hand. I pushed out to see the child, and, as he was looking abouthim everywhere, he saw me, and called out, "I see my shaggy papa. Oh,"said he. "oh, my heart's love, my shaggy papa, come here till I seeyou."I was afraid the woman would see me, as she was asking the child wherehe saw me, and he said I was up in a tree. and the more the child calledme, the more I hid myself. The woman took the child home with her, but Iknew he would be up early in the morning.I went to the parlour window, and the child was within, and he playing.When he saw me, he cried out, "Oh, my heart's love, come here till I seeyou, shaggy papa." I broke the window, and went in, and he began to kissme. I saw the rod in front of the chimney, and I jumped up at the rodand knocked it down. "Oh, my heart's love, no one would give me thepretty rod." I thought he would strike me with the rod, but he did not.When I saw the time was short, I raised my paw, and I gave him a scratchbelow the knee. "Oh, you naughty, dirty, shaggy papa. you have hurt meso much I'll give yourself a blow of the rod." He struck me a lightblow, and as there was no sin on him, I came back to my own shape again.When he saw a man standing before him he gave a cry, and I took him upin my arms. The servants heard the child. A maid came in to see what wasthe matter with him. When she saw me she gave a cry out of her, and shesaid, "Oh, my soul to God, if the master isn't come to life again."Another came in, and said it was he, really. And when the mistress heardof it, she came to see with her own eyes, for she would not believe Iwas there. and when she saw me she said she'd drown herself. And I saidto her, "If you yourself will keep the secret, no living man will everget the story from me until I lose my head."Many's the man has come asking for the story, and I never let onereturn. but now everyone will know it, but she is as much to blame as I.I gave you my head on the spot, and a thousand welcomes, and she cannotsay I have been telling anything but the truth."Oh, surely, nor are you now."When I saw I was in a man's shape I said I would take the child back tohis father and mother, as I knew the grief they were in after him. Igot a ship, and took the child with me. and when I was journeying I cameto land on an island, and I saw not a living soul on it, only a court,dark and gloomy. I went in to see was there anyone in it. There was noone but an old hag, tall and frightful, and she asked me, "What sort ofperson are you?" I heard someone groaning in another room, and I said Iwas a doctor, and I asked her what ailed the person who was groaning."Oh," said she, "it is my son, whose hand has been bitten from his wristby a dog."I knew then it was the boy who was taking the child from me, and I saidI would cure him if I got a good reward."I have nothing, but there are eight young lads and three young women,as handsome as anyone laid eyes on, and if you cure him I will give youthem.""But tell me in what place his hand was cut from.""Oh, it was out in another country twelve years ago.""Show me the way, that I may see him."She brought me into a room, so that I saw him, and his arm was swelledup to the shoulder. He asked if I would cure him. and I said I couldcure him if he would give me the reward his mother promised."Oh, I will give it, but cure me.""Well, bring them out to me."The hag brought them out of the room. I said I would burn the flesh thatwas on his arm. When I looked on him he was howling with pain. I saidthat I would not leave him in pain long. The thief had only one eye inhis forehead. I took a bar of iron, and put it in the fire till it wasred, and I said to the hag, "He will be howling at first, but will fallasleep presently, and do not wake him until he has slept as much as hewants. I will close the door when I am going out." I took the bar withme, and I stood over him, and I turned it across through his eye as faras I could. He began to bellow, and tried to catch me, but I was out andaway, having closed the door. The hag asked me, "Why is he bellowing?""Oh, he will be quiet presently, and will sleep for a good while, andI'll come again to have a look at him. but bring me out the young menand the young women."I took them with me, and I said to her, "Tell me where you got them.""Oh, my son brought them with him, and they are the offspring of the oneKing."I was well satisfied, and I had no liking for delay to get myself freefrom the hag, and I took them on board the ship, and the child I hadmyself. I thought the King might leave me the child I nursed myself. butwhen I came to land, and all those young people with me, the King andQueen were out walking. The King was very aged, and the Queen agedlikewise. When I came to converse with them, and the twelve with me, theKing and Queen began to cry. I asked, "Why are you crying?""Oh, it is for good cause I am crying. As many children as these Ishould have, and now I am withered, grey, at the end of my life, and Ihave not one at all.""Oh, belike, you will yet have plenty."I told him all I went through, and I gave him the child in his hand,and: "These are your other children who were stolen from you, whom I amgiving to you safe. They are gently reared."When the King heard who they were, he smothered them with kisses anddrowned them with tears, and dried them with fine cloths, silken, andthe hairs of his own head, and so also did their mother, and great washis welcome for me, as it was I who found them all. And the King said tome, "I will give you your own child, as it is you who have earned himbest. but you must come to my court every year, and the child with you,and I will share with you my possessions.""Oh, I have enough of my own, and after my death I will leave it to thechild."I spent a time till my visit was over, and I told the King all thetroubles I went through, only I said nothing about my wife. And now youhave the story of the death of Anshgayliacht, the hag's son.And Morraha thanked Rough Niall for the story, and he struck the groundwith the Sword of Light, and Brown Allree was beside of him and she saidto him, "Sit up, now, riding, and take good heed of yourself," and atone leap she cleared the sea and at the next the three miles of hillcovered with steel thistles and at the third the three miles of fire,and then he was home and he told the tale of the death of Anshgayliachtto the Slender Red Champion and gave him the Sword of Light, and he waswell pleased to get them, and he took the spells of Morraha, and he hadhis wife and his castle back again, and by and by the five children. buthe never put his hand to card playing with strangers again.W. LARMINIE.(_From "West Irish Folk Tales."_)