Long, long ago there lived, in Japan a brave warrior known to all asTawara Toda, or "My Lord Bag of Rice." His true name was FujiwaraHidesato, and there is a very interesting story of how he came tochange his name.One day he sallied forth in search of adventures, for he had the natureof a warrior and could not bear to be idle. So he buckled on his twoswords, took his huge bow, much taller than himself, in his hand, andslinging his quiver on his back started out. He had not gone far whenhe came to the bridge of Seta no Karashi spanning one end of thebeautiful Lake Biwa. No sooner had he set foot on the bridge than hesaw lying right across his path a huge serpent dragon. Its body was sobig that it looked like the trunk of a large pine tree and it took upthe whole width of the bridge. One of its huge claws rested on theparapet of one side of the bridge, while its tail lay right against theother. The monster seemed to be asleep, and as it breathed, fire andsmoke came out of its nostrils.At first Hidesato could not help feeling alarmed at the sight of thishorrible reptile lying in his path, for he must either turn back orwalk right over its body. He was a brave man, however, and puttingaside all fear went forward dauntlessly. Crunch, crunch! he stepped nowon the dragon's body, now between its coils, and without even oneglance backward he went on his way.He had only gone a few steps when he heard some one calling him frombehind. On turning back he was much surprised to see that the monsterdragon had entirely disappeared and in its place was a strange lookingman, who was bowing most ceremoniously to the ground. His red hairstreamed over his shoulders and was surmounted by a crown in the shapeof a dragon's head, and his sea green dress was patterned with shells.Hidesato knew at once that this was no ordinary mortal and he wonderedmuch at the strange occurrence. Where had the dragon gone in such ashort space of time? Or had it transformed itself into this man, andwhat did the whole thing mean? While these thoughts passed through hismind he had come up to the man on the bridge and now addressed him:"Was it you that called me just now?""Yes, it was I," answered the man: "I have an earnest request to maketo you. Do you think you can grant it to me?""If it is in my power to do so I will," answered Hidesato, "but firsttell me who you are?""I am the Dragon King of the Lake, and my home is in these waters justunder this bridge.""And what is it you have to ask of me?" said Hidesato."I want you to kill my mortal enemy the centipede, who lives on themountain beyond," and the Dragon King pointed to a high peak on theopposite shore of the lake."I have lived now for many years in this lake and I have a large familyof children and grand children. For some time past we have lived interror, for a monster centipede has discovered our home, and nightafter night it comes and carries off one of my family. I am powerlessto save them. If it goes on much longer like this, not only shall Ilose all my children, but I myself must fall a victim to the monster. Iam, therefore, very unhappy, and in my extremity I determined to askthe help of a human being. For many days with this intention I havewaited on the bridge in the shape of the horrible serpent dragon thatyou saw, in the hope that some strong brave man would come along. Butall who came this way, as soon as they saw me were terrified and ranaway as fast as they could. You are the first man I have found able tolook at me without fear, so I knew at once that you were a man of greatcourage. I beg you to have pity upon me. Will you not help me and killmy enemy the centipede?"Hidesato felt very sorry for the Dragon King on hearing his story, andreadily promised to do what he could to help him. The warrior askedwhere the centipede lived, so that he might attack the creature atonce. The Dragon King replied that its home was on the mountain Mikami,but that as it came every night at a certain hour to the palace of thelake, it would be better to wait till then. So Hidesato was conductedto the palace of the Dragon King, under the bridge. Strange to say, ashe followed his host downwards the waters parted to let them pass, andhis clothes did not even feel damp as he passed through the flood.Never had Hidesato seen anything so beautiful as this palace built ofwhite marble beneath the lake. He had often heard of the Sea King'spalace at the bottom of the sea, where all the servants and retainerswere salt water fishes, but here was a magnificent building in theheart of Lake Biwa. The dainty goldfishes, red carp, and silvery trout,waited upon the Dragon King and his guest.Hidesato was astonished at the feast that was spread for him. Thedishes were crystallized lotus leaves and flowers, and the chopstickswere of the rarest ebony. As soon as they sat down, the sliding doorsopened and ten lovely goldfish dancers came out, and behind themfollowed ten red carp musicians with the koto and the samisen. Thus thehours flew by till midnight, and the beautiful music and dancing hadbanished all thoughts of the centipede. The Dragon King was about topledge the warrior in a fresh cup of wine when the palace was suddenlyshaken by a tramp, tramp! as if a mighty army had begun to march notfar away.Hidesato and his host both rose to their feet and rushed to thebalcony, and the warrior saw on the opposite mountain two great ballsof glowing fire coming nearer and nearer. The Dragon King stood by thewarrior's side trembling with fear."The centipede! The centipede! Those two balls of fire are its eyes. Itis coming for its prey! Now is the time to kill it."Hidesato looked where his host pointed, and, in the dim light of thestarlit evening, behind the two balls of fire he saw the long body ofan enormous centipede winding round the mountains, and the light in itshundred feet glowed like so many distant lanterns moving slowly towardsthe shore.Hidesato showed not the least sign of fear. He tried to calm the DragonKing."Don't be afraid. I shall surely kill the centipede. Just bring me mybow and arrows."The Dragon King did as he was bid, and the warrior noticed that he hadonly three arrows left in his quiver. He took the bow, and fitting anarrow to the notch, took careful aim and let fly.The arrow hit the centipede right in the middle of its head, butinstead of penetrating, it glanced off harmless and fell to the ground.Nothing daunted, Hidesato took another arrow, fitted it to the notch ofthe bow and let fly. Again the arrow hit the mark, it struck thecentipede right in the middle of its head, only to glance off and fallto the ground. The centipede was invulnerable to weapons! When theDragon King saw that even this brave warrior's arrows were powerless tokill the centipede, he lost heart and began to tremble with fear.The warrior saw that he had now only one arrow left in his quiver, andif this one failed he could not kill the centipede. He looked acrossthe waters. The huge reptile had wound its horrid body seven timesround the mountain and would soon come down to the lake. Nearer andnearer gleamed fireballs of eyes, and the light of its hundred feetbegan to throw reflections in the still waters of the lake.Then suddenly the warrior remembered that he had heard that humansaliva was deadly to centipedes. But this was no ordinary centipede.This was so monstrous that even to think of such a creature made onecreep with horror. Hidesato determined to try his last chance. Sotaking his last arrow and first putting the end of it in his mouth, hefitted the notch to his bow, took careful aim once more and let fly.This time the arrow again hit the centipede right in the middle of itshead, but instead of glancing off harmlessly as before, it struck hometo the creature's brain. Then with a convulsive shudder the serpentinebody stopped moving, and the fiery light of its great eyes and hundredfeet darkened to a dull glare like the sunset of a stormy day, and thenwent out in blackness. A great darkness now overspread the heavens, thethunder rolled and the lightning flashed, and the wind roared in fury,and it seemed as if the world were coming to an end. The Dragon Kingand his children and retainers all crouched in different parts of thepalace, frightened to death, for the building was shaken to itsfoundation. At last the dreadful night was over. Day dawned beautifuland clear. The centipede was gone from the mountain.Then Hidesato called to the Dragon King to come out with him on thebalcony, for the centipede was dead and he had nothing more to fear.Then all the inhabitants of the palace came out with joy, and Hidesatopointed to the lake. There lay the body of the dead centipede floatingon the water, which was dyed red with its blood.The gratitude of the Dragon King knew no bounds. The whole family cameand bowed down before the warrior, calling him their preserver and thebravest warrior in all Japan.Another feast was prepared, more sumptuous than the first. All kinds offish, prepared in every imaginable way, raw, stewed, boiled androasted, served on coral trays and crystal dishes, were put before him,and the wine was the best that Hidesato had ever tasted in his life. Toadd to the beauty of everything the sun shone brightly, the lakeglittered like a liquid diamond, and the palace was a thousand timesmore beautiful by day than by night.His host tried to persuade the warrior to stay a few days, but Hidesatoinsisted on going home, saying that he had now finished what he hadcome to do, and must return. The Dragon King and his family were allvery sorry to have him leave so soon, but since he would go they beggedhim to accept a few small presents (so they said) in token of theirgratitude to him for delivering them forever from their horrible enemythe centipede.As the warrior stood in the porch taking leave, a train of fish wassuddenly transformed into a retinue of men, all wearing ceremonialrobes and dragon's crowns on their heads to show that they wereservants of the great Dragon King. The presents that they carried wereas follows:First, a large bronze bell.Second, a bag of rice.Third, a roll of silk.Fourth, a cooking pot.Fifth, a bell.Hidesato did not want to accept all these presents, but as the DragonKing insisted, he could not well refuse.The Dragon King himself accompanied the warrior as far as the bridge,and then took leave of him with many bows and good wishes, leaving theprocession of servants to accompany Hidesato to his house with thepresents.The warrior's household and servants had been very much concerned whenthey found that he did not return the night before, but they finallyconcluded that he had been kept by the violent storm and had takenshelter somewhere. When the servants on the watch for his return caughtsight of him they called to every one that he was approaching, and thewhole household turned out to meet him, wondering much what the retinueof men, bearing presents and banners, that followed him, could mean.As soon as the Dragon King's retainers had put down the presents theyvanished, and Hidesato told all that had happened to him.The presents which he had received from the grateful Dragon King werefound to be of magic power. The bell only was ordinary, and as Hidesatohad no use for it he presented it to the temple near by, where it washung up, to boom out the hour of day over the surrounding neighborhood.The single bag of rice, however much was taken from it day after dayfor the meals of the knight and his whole family, never grew less thesupply in the bag was inexhaustible.The roll of silk, too, never grew shorter, though time after time longpieces were cut off to make the warrior a new suit of clothes to go toCourt in at the New Year.The cooking pot was wonderful, too. No matter what was put into it, itcooked deliciously whatever was wanted without any firing truly a veryeconomical saucepan.The fame of Hidesato's fortune spread far and wide, and as there was noneed for him to spend money on rice or silk or firing, he became veryrich and prosperous, and was henceforth known as My Lord Bag of Rice.