Woe to him who thinks to find a governess for his children bygiving them a stepmother! He only brings into his house the causeof their ruin. There never yet was a stepmother who looked kindlyon the children of another. or if by chance such a one were everfound, she would be regarded as a miracle, and be called a whitecrow. But beside all those of whom you may have heard, I will nowtell you of another, to be added to the list of heartlessstepmothers, whom you will consider well deserving the punishmentshe purchased for herself with ready money.There was once a good man named Jannuccio, who had two children,Nennillo and Nennella, whom he loved as much as his own life. ButDeath having, with the smooth file of Time, severed the prisonbars of his wife's soul, he took to himself a cruel woman, who hadno sooner set foot in his house than she began to ride the highhorse, saying, "Am I come here indeed to look after other folk'schildren? A pretty job I have undertaken, to have all this troubleand be for ever teased by a couple of squalling brats! Would thatI had broken my neck ere I ever came to this place, to have badfood, worse drink, and get no sleep at night! Here's a life tolead! Forsooth I came as a wife, and not as a servant. but I mustfind some means of getting rid of these creatures, or it will costme my life: better to blush once than to grow pale a hundredtimes. so I've done with them, for I am resolved to send themaway, or to leave the house myself forever."The poor husband, who had some affection for this woman, said toher, "Softly, wife! Don't be angry, for sugar is dear. andtomorrow morning, before the cock crows, I will remove thisannoyance in order to please you."So the next morning, ere the Dawn had hung out the red counterpaneat the window of the East to air it, Jannuccio took the children,one by each hand, and with a good basketful of things to eat uponhis arm, he led them to a wood, where an army of poplars andbeech trees were holding the shades besieged.Then Jannuccio said, "My little children, stay here in this wood,and eat and drink merrily. but if you want anything, follow thisline of ashes which I have been strewing as we came along. thiswill be a clue to lead you out of the labyrinth and bring youstraight home."Then giving them both a kiss, he returned weeping to his house.But at the hour when all creatures, summoned by the constables ofNight, pay to Nature the tax of needful repose, the two childrenbegan to feel afraid at remaining in that lonesome place, wherethe waters of a river, which was thrashing the impertinent stonesfor obstructing its course, would have frightened even a hero. Sothey went slowly along the path of ashes, and it was alreadymidnight ere they reached their home.When Pascozza, their stepmother, saw the children, she acted notlike a woman, but a perfect fury. crying aloud, wringing herhands, stamping with her feet, snorting like a frightened horse,and exclaiming, "What fine piece of work is this? Is there no wayof ridding the house of these creatures? Is it possible, husband,that you are determined to keep them here to plague my very lifeout? Go, take them out of my sight! I'll not wait for the crowingof cocks and the cackling of hens. or else be assured thattomorrow morning I'll go off to my parents' house, for you do notdeserve me. I have not brought you so many fine things, only to bemade the slave of children who are not my own."Poor Jannuccio, who saw that matters were growing rather too warm,immediately took the little ones and returned to the wood. wheregiving the children another basketful of food, he said to them,"You see, my dears, how this wife of mine   who is come to myhouse to be your ruin and a nail in my heart   hates you.therefore remain in this wood, where the trees, morecompassionate, will give you shelter from the sun. where theriver, more charitable, will give you drink without poison. andthe earth, more kind, will give you a pillow of grass withoutdanger. And when you want food, follow this little path of branwhich I have made for you in a straight line, and you can come andseek what you require."So saying, he turned away his face, not tolet himself be seen to weep and dishearten the poor littlecreatures.When Nennillo and Nennella had eaten all that was in the basket,they wanted to return home. but alas! a jackass   the son ofill luck   had eaten up all the bran that was strewn upon theground. so they lost their way, and wandered about forlorn in thewood for several days, feeding on acorns and chestnuts which theyfound fallen on the ground.But as Heaven always extends its arm over the innocent, there cameby chance a prince to hunt in that wood. Then Nennillo, hearingthe baying of the hounds, was so frightened that he crept into ahollow tree. and Nennella set off running at full speed, and ranuntil she came out of the wood, and found herself on the seashore.Now it happened that some pirates, who had landed there to getfuel, saw Nennella and carried her off. and their captain took herhome with him where he and his wife, having just lost a littlegirl, took her as their daughter.Meantime Nennillo, who had hidden himself in the tree, wassurrounded by the dogs, which made such a furious barking that theprince sent to find out the cause. and when he discovered thepretty little boy, who was so young that he could not tell whowere his father and mother, he ordered one of the huntsmen to sethim upon his saddle and take him to the royal palace. Then he hadhim brought up with great care, and instructed in various arts,and among others, he had him taught that of a carver. so that,before three or four years had passed, Nennillo became so expertin his art that he could carve a joint to a hair.Now about this time it was discovered that the captain of the shipwho had taken Nennella to his house was a sea robber, and thepeople wished to take him prisoner. but getting timely notice fromthe clerks in the law courts, who were his friends, and whom hekept in his pay, he fled with all his family. It was decreed,however, perhaps by the judgment of Heaven, that he who hadcommitted his crimes upon the sea, upon the sea should suffer thepunishment of them. for having embarked in a small boat, no soonerwas he upon the open sea than there came such a storm of wind andtumult of the waves, that the boat was upset and all were drowned,all except Nennella, who having had no share in the corsair'srobberies, like his wife and children, escaped the danger. forjust then a large enchanted fish, which was swimming about theboat, opened its huge throat and swallowed her down.The little girl now thought to herself that her days were surelyat an end, when suddenly she found a thing to amaze her inside thefish: beautiful fields and fine gardens, and a splendid mansion,with all that heart could desire, in which she lived like aprincess. Then she was carried quickly by the fish to a rock,where it chanced that the prince had come to escape the burningheat of a summer, and to enjoy the cool sea breezes. And whilst agreat banquet was preparing, Nennillo had stepped out upon abalcony of the palace on the rock to sharpen some knives, pridinghimself greatly on acquiring honor from his office.When Nennella saw him through the fish's throat, she cried aloud,Brother, brother, your task is done, The tables are laid out every one.But here in the fish I must sit and sigh,Oh brother, without you I soon shall die.Nennillo at first paid no attention to the voice, but the prince,who was standing on another balcony and had also heard it, turnedin the direction whence the sound came, and saw the fish. And whenhe again heard the same words, he was beside himself withamazement, and ordered a number of servants to try whether by anymeans they could ensnare the fish and draw it to land.At last, hearing the words "Brother, brother!" continually repeated, heasked all his servants, one by one, whether any of them had lost asister. And Nennillo replied, that he recollected, as a dream,having had a sister when the prince found him in the wood, butthat he had never since heard any tidings of her. Then the princetold him to go nearer to the fish, and see what was the matter,for perhaps this adventure might concern him.As soon as Nennillo approached the fish, it raised up its headupon the rock, and opening its throat six palms wide, Nennellastepped out, so beautiful that she looked just like a nymph insome interlude, come forth from that animal at the incantation ofa magician. And when the prince asked her how it had all happened,she told him a part of her sad story, and the hatred of theirstepmother. but not being able to recollect the name of theirfather nor of their home, the prince caused a proclamation to beissued, commanding that whoever had lost two children, namedNennillo and Nennella, in a wood, should come to the royal palace,and he would there receive joyful news of them.Jannuccio, who had all this time passed a sad and disconsolatelife, believing that his children had been devoured by wolves, nowhastened with the greatest joy to seek the prince, and told himthat he had lost the children. And when he had related the story,how he had been compelled to take them to the wood, the princegave him a good scolding, calling him a blockhead for allowing awoman to put her heel upon his neck till he was brought to sendaway two such jewels as his children. But after he had brokenJannuccio's head with these words, he applied to it the plaster ofconsolation, showing him the children, whom the father embracedand kissed for half an hour without being satisfied.Then the prince made him pull off his jacket, and had him dressedlike a lord. and sending for Jannuccio's wife, he showed her thosetwo golden pippins, asked her what that person would deserve whoshould do them any harm, and even endanger their lives.And she replied, "For my part, I would put her into a closed cask,and send her rolling down a mountain.""So it shall be done!" said the prince. "The goat has butted atherself. Quick now! you have passed the sentence, and you mustsuffer it, for having borne these beautiful stepchildren suchmalice."So he gave orders that the sentence should be instantly executed.Then choosing a very rich lord among his vassals, he gave himNennella to wife, and the daughter of another great lord toNennillo. allowing them enough to live upon, with their father, sothat they wanted for nothing in the world. But the stepmother,shut into the cask and shut out from life, kept on crying throughthe bunghole as long as she had breath:To him who mischief seeks, shall mischief fall. There comesan hour that recompenses all.