A count by the name of Gebhard resided at Querfurt. His brother was SaintBruno, who along with Saint Adalbert was an apostle to the heathenPrussians. Count Gebhard was a strict and serious lord with a stubbornmind and a quick response. Once, when he had been away from his realm forsome time, his wife, a noblewoman from Saxony, gave birth at the Querfurtresidence to nine babies at one time.She and her attendants were terrified at this overly rich blessing, andthey feared the worst from their count and lord, for he was temperamentaland had often spoken unfavorably about women who had given birth to morethan one child   say two or three at one time   and here there werefully three times three. He could well think that this was altogether toomany and hence react in an unpleasant manner.Thus they took council with one another and decided to keep but one ofthe babies, the first and strongest, and to do away with the remainingeight. One of the servant women was ordered to carry the eight babies awayin a kettle. She was to load the kettle with stones and sink it in thenearby castle pond.This woman met Saint Bruno, who was living in Querfurt at the time.That early morning he was walking back and forth near a beautiful springsaying his prayers. Hearing a baby cry, he asked the woman what she wascarrying.Terrified, the woman said, "Young whelps," and attempted to hurry onher way. However, Bruno made her take the cover off the kettle, saw theeight babies, and forced the woman to tell to whom they belonged. She toldhim the whole truth.Bruno swore her to secrecy, even with regards to the mother. At thespring he baptized the children in the copper kettle in which they werelying, naming each one Bruno after himself. He then gave them to good andloyal people for care and upbringing. This all he kept a deep secret untilthe time came for him to return to Prussia.The ninth boy, the one that was kept, was named Burkhart, and with timehe became the grandfather of Emperor Lothar.Because Bruno was about to go abroad, he revealed the secret to hisbrother, making him promise to not hold this sinful act against his wife,who believed that the children were dead. In the intervening years she hadfelt the deepest regret and the most painful sorrow.He then had the eight boys, all dressed alike, brought to the castleand introduced to their parents, who recognized from their appearance andgestures that they were the true brothers of the ninth boy. Sorrow and joyruled at the same time.However, Count Gebhard did not allow his wife to go entirelyunpunished. He had a new pair of shoes made for her, not from leather butfrom iron. He had the iron heated until it glowed. The countess had to puton these red hot shoes for a time for having agreed to the advise tomurder the children.These same shoes and the baptismal kettle are still on display in thechurch at Querfurt. To this day the spring is called "Bruno's Spring," and the pond where the whelps were to have been drowned is still called "Wolf Pond."