 1. The sentiment expressed in this verse is one which is oftenheard from the mouth of a Muslim. but generally when, his toil is ended,and its result seen. though not unfrequently as an excuse for indolence. 2. The bottle is here described (by the term "umum") as of a kindcommonly used for sprinkling rose water,  c., having a spherical or widebody, with a long and narrow neck. I remember seeing a gilt brass bottleof this kind, of very beautiful workmanship, for which nearly as much asten pieces of gold was demanded. 3. The seal of Suleyman, or Solomon, has twice been mentioned informer notes. in No. 21 of the notes appended to the Introduction, andin No. 15 of those to the first chapter. 4. It is necessary to remark, that this and many other descriptionsin the present work are not designed to be understood in their literalsense. The reader will often be required to make some allowance forOriental hyperbole, and to distinguish between expressions characterisedby this figure, and such as are purely accordant with Eastern grandeurand magnificence, or with Muslim superstition. 5. The end of the winnowing fork bears a rude resemblance to agigantic hand. having several long prongs of wood. 6. Instead of "ibree" (a ewer), in the Cairo edition, I read"abwa" (trumpets), as in other editions. 7. This appellation has been mentioned in a former note, assignifying an evil Jinnee of the most powerful class. 8. It is a rule observed in decent society, by the Arabs, to avoid,as much as possible, the mention of opprobrious epithets, lest anyperson present should imagine such epithets to be addressed insidiouslyto himself. For this reason, when any malediction or offensive languageis repeated in a story, it is usual with them to designate the object ofsuch language by this term, which signifies both remote or absent fromthe person or persons in whose presence the words are repeated, andremote from virtue or good. In the present instance, "remote" is anepithet substituted by Shahrazad for some other of a gross nature, fromrespect to the king to whom she is relating the story. 9. I read "akhr el Jinnee" for "akhr el Jinn." akhr was an evilJinnee, and a terrible enemy of Solomon. His last act of treachery tothat monarch, and his fate, are thus related by commentators on theur an. Solomon having, through negligence, suffered one of his womento practise idolatry under his roof, God saw fit to punish him. It wasthe custom of this King, on certain occasions, "to intrust his signet,on which his kingdom depended, with a concubine of his, namedEl Emeeneh. One day, therefore, when she had the ring in her custody, adevil , named akhr, came to her in the shape ofSolomon, and received the ring from her. by virtue of which he becamepossessed of the kingdom, and sat on the throne in the shape which hehad borrowed, making what alterations in the law he pleased. Solomon, inthe meantime, being changed in his outward appearance, and known to noneof his subjects, was obliged to wander about, and beg alms for hissubsistence. till at length, after the space of forty days, which wasthe time the image had been worshipped in his house, the devil flewaway, and threw the signet into the sea. The signet was immediatelyswallowed by a fish, which being taken and given to Solomon, he foundthe ring in its belly. and having by this means recovered the kingdom,he took akhr, and, tying a great stone to his neck, threw him into theLake of Tiberias." 10. "Umm 'Amir" is an appellation of the hyena. It is scarcelynecessary to mention, that the proverb here quoted is said to haveoriginated from the fact of a man's having been devoured by a hyena whomhe had aided against an enemy. 11. In some copies, the personage here mentioned is called "Melikel Yoonan," that is, "King of Ancient Greece," or "of the AncientGreeks." I have followed the Cairo edition, and that of the first twohundred nights, printed at Calcutta, in which "Yoonan" is used as theKing's proper name. See also Note 13. 12. This is the name of the sage in most copies. but in the Cairoedition he is called "Rooyan." 13. In the Calcutta edition, the king is merely said to havereigned "in the country of the Persians," as in my translation. but inthe Cairo edition, he is said to have been "in the _city_ of thePersians, and the country of Rooman." which may perhaps mean (thoughthis is hardly allowable) the Roman, or later Greek, empire.an unnecessary contradiction. (See Note 22 to Chapter x.) It isobviously more agreeable with the story to regard him as a Persian King. 14. "The Ornament of the Good," or "of the Comely," is anappellation of the Arabian prophet, who is related to have said, "Thesun never riseth until it hath saluted me." "The sun's saluting theOrnament of the Good," or "Comely," is, therefore, a phrase notunfrequently used by Muslims merely to signify its rising. 15. _On the Rewards of Men of Literature and Science._ It has longbeen a common custom of Eastern princes to bestow dresses of honour uponmen of literature and science, as well as upon their great officers andother servants. These dresses were of different kinds for persons ofdifferent classes or professions. The most usual kind was an ample coat.With dresses of this description were often given gold embroideredturbans. and sometimes, to Emeers (or great military officers),neck rings or collars (called os), some of which were set with jewels.as also, bracelets, and swords ornamented with precious stones,  c.. andto Wezeers, instead of the o, a necklace of jewels. Thefollowing striking record will convey an idea of the magnificence ofsome of these dresses of honour. or, in other words, of the liberalityof a Muslim prince, and, at the same time, of the very precarious natureof his favour. A person, chancing to look at a register kept by one ofthe officers of Haroon Er Rasheed, saw in it the following entry: "Fourhundred thousand pieces of gold, the price of a dress of honour forJaafar, the son of Yaya, the Wezeer." A few days after, he saw beneaththis written, "Ten eeras, the price of naphtha and reeds, for burningthe body of Jaafar, the son of Yaya." The eera of Baghdad wasthe twentieth part of a deenar, or piece of gold.Arab princes and other great men have generally been famous for highlyrespecting, and liberally rewarding, men of literature and science, andespecially poets. El Mamoon and many others are well known to us fortheir patronage of the learned. Er Rasheed carried his condescension tothem so far as to pour the water on the hands of a blind man,Aboo Mo'awiyeh, one of the most learned persons of his time, previouslyto his eating with him, to shew his respect for science. Ananecdote of a Khaleefeh ordering the mouth of a learned man to be filledwith jewels, I have related in a former note. To cram the mouth withsugar or sweetmeats for a polite or eloquent speech, or piece of poetry,has been more commonly done. but the usual presents to learned men were,and are, dresses of honour and sums of money. Ibn 'Obeyd El Bakhteree,an illustrious poet and traditionist, who flourished in the reign ofEl Musta'een, is said to have received so many presents, that, after hisdeath, there were found, among the property which he left, a hundredcomplete suits of dress, two hundred shirts, and five hundredturbans. A thousand pieces of gold were often given, and sometimesten, twenty, or thirty, thousand, and even more, for a few verses. nay,for a single couplet.The prodigality of Arab princes to men of learning may be exemplified bythe following anecdote: ammad, surnamed Er Rawiyeh, or the famousreciter, having attached himself to the Khaleefeh El Weleed, the son of'Abd el Melik, and shewn a contrary feeling towards his brother Hisham,on the accession of the latter fled to El Koofeh. While there, a letterarrived from Hisham, commanding his presence at Damascus: it wasaddressed to the governor, who, being ordered to treat him with honour,gave him a purse containing a thousand pieces of gold, and despatchedhim with the Khaleefeh's messenger. On his arrival at Damascus, he wasconducted before Hisham, whom he found in a splendid saloon, seatedunder a pavilion of red silk, surmounted by a dome of yellow brocade,attended by two female slaves of beauty unsurpassed, each holding acrystal ewer of wine. His admission during the presence of members ofthe King's areem, the reader will remark as a very unusual and highhonour: the mention of the wine may also surprise him. but this is asubject upon which much may be said, and which will be considered on afuture occasion. After ammad had given the salutation, and theKhaleefeh had returned it, the latter told him that he had sent for himto ask respecting a couplet of which he (the Khaleefeh) could onlyremember that it ended with the word "ibree," which signifies "a ewer."The reciter reflected a while, and the lines occurred to his mind, andhe repeated them. Hisham cried out, in delight, that the lines werethose he meant. drank a cup of wine, and desired one of the femaleslaves to hand a cup to ammad. She did so. and the draught, he says,deprived him of one third of his reason. The Khaleefeh desired him torepeat the lines again, and drank a second cup. and ammad was deprivedof another third of his reason in the same manner. and said, "O Princeof the Faithful, two thirds of my reason have departed from me." Hishamlaughed, and desired him to ask what he would before the remaining thirdshould have gone. and the reciter said, "One of these two femaleslaves." The Khaleefeh laughed again, and said, "Nay, but both of themare thine, and all that is upon them, and all that they possess, and,beside them, fifty thousand pieces of gold." "I kissed the groundbefore him," says ammad, "and drank a third cup, and was unconscious ofwhat happened after: I did not awake till the close of the night, when Ifound myself in a handsome house, surrounded by lighted candles, and thetwo female slaves were putting in order my clothes and other things: soI took possession of the property, and departed, the happiest of thecreatures of God."A whimsical story is told of a king, who denied to poets those rewardsto which usage had almost given them a claim. This king, whose name isnot recorded, had the faculty of retaining in his memory an ode afterhaving only once heard it. and he had a memlook who could repeat an odethat he had twice heard, and a female slave who could repeat one thatshe had heard thrice. Whenever a poet came to compliment him with apanegyrical ode, the King used to promise him that, if he found hisverses to be his original composition, he would give him a sum of moneyequal in weight to what they were written upon. The poet, consenting,would recite his ode. and the King would say, "It is not new. for I haveknown it some years." and would repeat it as he had heard it. afterwhich he would add, "And this memlook also retains it in his memory."and would order the memlook to repeat it. which, having heard it twice,from the poet and the king, he would do. The King would then say to thepoet, "I have also a female slave who can repeat it." and on hisordering her to do so, stationed behind the curtains, she would repeatwhat she had thus thrice heard: so the poet would go away empty handed.The famous poet El Ama'ee, having heard of this proceeding, andguessing the trick, determined upon outwitting the King. and accordinglycomposed an ode made up of very difficult words. but this was not hisonly preparative measure. another will be presently explained. and athird was, to assume the dress of a Bedawee, that he might not be known,covering his face, the eyes only excepted, with a litham (a piece ofdrapery) in accordance with a custom of Arabs of the desert. Thusdisguised, he went to the palace, and, having asked permission, entered,and saluted the King, who said to him, "Whence art thou, O brother ofthe Arabs, and what dost thou desire?" The poet answered, "May Godincrease the power of the King! I am a poet of such a tribe, and havecomposed an ode in praise of our lord the Sulan." "O brother of theArabs," said the King, "hast thou heard of our condition?" "No,"answered the poet. "and what is it, O King of the age?" "It is,"replied the King, "that if the ode be not thine, we give thee no reward.and if it be thine, we give thee the weight in money of what it iswritten upon." "How," said El Ama'ee, "should I assume to myself thatwhich belongs to another, and knowing, too, that lying before kings isone of the basest of actions? But I agree to this condition, O our lordthe Sulan." So he repeated his ode. The King, perplexed, and unable toremember any of it, made a sign to the memlook but he had retainednothing. and called to the female slave, but she also was unable torepeat a word. "O brother of the Arabs," said he, "thou hast spokentruth, and the ode is thine without doubt: I have never heard it before:produce, therefore, what it is written upon, and we will give thee itsweight in money, as we have promised." "Wilt thou," said the poet,"send one of the attendants to carry it?" "To carry what?" asked theKing. "is it not upon a paper here in thy possession?" "No, O our lordthe Sulan," replied the poet. "at the time I composed it I could notprocure a piece of paper upon which to write it, and could find nothingbut a fragment of a marble column left me by my father. so I engraved itupon this. and it lies in the court of the palace." He had brought it,wrapped up, on the back of a camel. The King, to fulfil his promise, wasobliged to exhaust his treasury. and to prevent a repetition of thistrick (of which he afterwards discovered El Ama'ee to have been theauthor), in future rewarded the poets according to the usual custom ofkings.The following case is also related as an exception to the common customof great men, with regard to the bestowal of rewards on poets: "A poetpraised a governor in some verses, and the latter ordered an ass'sbarda'ah (or stuffed saddle) and girth to be given to him. The poet wentaway with them on his shoulder. and, being asked what he had got,answered, 'I have praised our honoured lord in the best of my verses,and he hath bestowed on me some of the most magnificent articles of hisapparel.'" 16. _On the Bath._ The ammam, or bath, is a favourite resort ofboth men and women of all classes among the Muslims who can afford thetrifling expense which it requires. and (it is said) not only of humanbeings, but also of evil genii. on which account, as well as on that ofdecency, several precepts respecting it have been dictated by Moammad.It is frequented for the purpose of performing certain ablutionsrequired by the religion, or by a regard for cleanliness, and for itssalutary effects, and for mere luxury.The following description of a public bath will convey a sufficientnotion of those in private houses, which are on a smaller scale, andgenerally consist of only two or three chambers. The public bathcomprises several apartments, with mosaic or tesselated pavements,composed of white and black marble, and pieces of fine red tile, andsometimes other materials. The inner apartments are covered with domes,having a number of small, round, glazed apertures, for the admission oflight. The first apartment is the meslakh, or disrobing room, which has,in the centre, a fountain of cold water, and, next the walls, widebenches or platforms, encased with marble. These are furnished withmattresses and cushions for the higher and middle classes, and with matsfor the poorer sort. The inner division of the building, in the moreregularly planned baths, occupies nearly a square: the central and chiefportion of it is the principal apartment, or ararah, which generallyhas the form of a cross. In its centre is a fountain of hot water,rising from a base encased with marble, which serves as a seat. One ofthe angles of the square is occupied by the beyt owwal, or antechamberof the ararah: in another, is the fire over which is the boiler. andeach of the other two angles is generally occupied by two smallchambers: in one of these is a tank filled with warm water, which poursdown from a spout in the dome: in the other are two taps, side by side.one of hot, and the other of cold water, with a small trough beneath,before which is a seat. The inner apartments are heated by the steamwhich rises from the fountain and tanks, and by the contiguity of thefire. but the beyt owwal is not so hot as the ararah, being separatedfrom it by a door. In cold weather, the bather undresses in the former,which has two or three raised seats, like those of the meslakh.With a pair of wooden clogs to his feet, and having a large napkin roundhis loins, and generally a second wound round his head like a turban, athird over his chest, and a fourth covering his back, he enters theararah, the heat of which causes him immediately to perspire profusely.An attendant of the bath removes from him all the napkins excepting thefirst. and proceeds to crack the joints of his fingers and toes,  c.,and several of the vertebre of the back and neck. kneads his flesh. andrubs the soles of his feet with a coarse earthen rasp, and his limbs andbody with a woollen bag which covers his hand as a glove. after which,the bather, if he please, plunges into one of the tanks. He is thenthoroughly washed with soap and water, and fibres of the palm tree, andshaved, if he wish it, in one of the small chambers which contain thetaps of hot and cold water. and returns to the beyt owwal. Here hegenerally reclines upon a mattress, and takes some light refreshment,while one of the attendants rubs the soles of his feet, and kneads theflesh of his body and limbs, previously to his resuming his dress. It isa common custom, now, to take a pipe and a cup of coffee during thisperiod of rest.The women are especially fond of the bath, and often have entertainmentsthere. taking with them fruits, sweetmeats,  c., and sometimes hiringfemale singers to accompany them. An hour or more is occupied by theprocess of plaiting the hair, and applying the depilatory,  c.. and,generally, an equal time is passed in the enjoyment of rest, orrecreation, or refreshment. All necessary decorum is observed on theseoccasions by most females. but women of the lower orders are often seenin the bath without any covering. Some baths are appropriated solely tomen. others, only to women. and others, again, to men during theforenoon, and in the afternoon to women. When the bath is appropriatedto women, a napkin, or some other piece of drapery, is suspended overthe door, to warn men from entering.Before the time of Moammad, there were no public baths in Arabia. andhe was so prejudiced against them, for the reasons already alluded to,that he at first forbade both men and women from entering them:afterwards, however, he permitted men to do so, if for the sake ofcleanliness, on the condition of their having a cloth round the waist.and women also on account of sickness, child birth,  c., provided theyhad not convenient places for bathing in their houses. But,notwithstanding this license, it is held to be a characteristic of avirtuous woman, not to go to a bath even with her husband's permission:for the Prophet said, "Whatever woman enters a bath, the devil is withher." As the bath is a resort of the Jinn, prayer should not beperformed in it, nor the ur an recited. The Prophet said, "All theearth is given to me as a place of prayer, and as pure, except theburial ground and the bath." Hence also, when a person is about toenter a bath, he should offer up an ejaculatory prayer for protectionagainst evil spirits. and should place his left foot first over thethreshold. Infidels have often been obliged to distinguish themselvesin the bath, by hanging a signet to the neck, or wearing anklets,  c.,lest they should receive those marks of respect which should be paidonly to believers. 17. _On Meals, and the Manner of Eating._ The King (with the sageas his guest) is here described as eating in the presence of his court,agreeably with a common custom of Eastern princes and other great men inthe present day. the simple manner in which the meal is served and eatenoccasioning but a slight interruption.The Muslim takes a light breakfast after the morning prayers, and dinnerafter the noon prayers. or a single meal instead of these two, beforenoon. His principal meal is supper, which is taken after the prayers ofsunset. A man of rank or wealth, when he has no guest, generally eatsalone. his children eat after him, or with his wife or wives. In all hisrepasts he is moderate with regard to the quantity which he eats,however numerous the dishes.In the times to which most of the tales in the present work relate, itappears that the dishes were sometimes, I believe generally, placed upona round embroidered cloth spread on the floor, and sometimes on a tray,which was either laid on the floor or upon a small stand or stool. Thelast is the mode now always followed in the houses of the higher andmiddle classes of the Arabs. The table is usually placed upon a roundcloth, spread in the middle of the floor, or in a corner, next two ofthe deewans, or low seats which generally extend along three sides ofthe room. It is composed of a large round tray of silver, or of tinnedcopper, or of brass, supported by a stool, commonly about fifteen orsixteen inches high, made of wood, and generally inlaid withmother of pearl and ebony or other wood, or tortoise shell,  c. Whenthere are numerous guests, two or more such tables are prepared. Thedishes are of silver, or of tinned copper, or of china. Several of theseare placed upon the tray. and around them are disposed some round, flatcakes of bread, with spoons of box wood, ebony, or other material, and,usually, two or three limes, cut in halves, to be squeezed over certainof the dishes. When these preparations have been made, each person whois to partake of the repast receives a napkin. and a servant pours waterover his hands. A basin and ewer of either of the metals first mentionedare employed for this purpose. the former has a cover with a receptaclefor a piece of soap in its centre, and with numerous perforationsthrough which the water runs during the act of washing, so that it isnot seen when the basin is brought from one person to another. It isindispensably requisite to wash at least the right hand before eatingwith the fingers anything but dry food. and the mouth, also, is oftenrinsed, the water being taken up into it from the right hand. Thecompany sit upon the floor, or upon cushions, or some of them on thedeewan, either cross legged, or with the right knee raised: theyretain the napkins before mentioned. or a long napkin, sufficient tosurround the tray, is placed upon their knees. and each person, beforehe begins to eat, says, "In the name of God," or "In the name of God,the Compassionate, the Merciful." The master of the house begins first:if he did not so, some persons would suspect that the food was poisoned.The thumb and two fingers of the right hand serve instead of knives andforks. and it is the usual custom for a person to help himself to aportion of the contents of a dish by drawing it towards the edge, ortaking it from the edge, with a morsel of bread, which he eats with it:when he takes too large a portion for a single mouthful, he generallyplaces it on his cake of bread. He takes from any dish that pleases him.and sometimes a host hands a delicate morsel with his fingers to one ofhis guests. It is not allowable to touch food with the left hand (as itis used for unclean purposes), excepting in a few cases, when both handsare required to divide a joint.Among the more common dishes are the following: lamb or mutton cut intosmall pieces, and stewed with various vegetables, and sometimes withpeaches, apricots, or jujubes, and sugar. cucumbers or small gourds, orthe fruit of the black or white egg plant, stuffed with rice and mincedmeat,  c.. vine leaves or pieces of lettuce leaf or cabbage leaf,enclosing a similar composition. small morsels of lamb or mutton,roasted on skewers, and called "kebab." fowls simply roasted or boiled,or boned, and stuffed with raisins, pistachio nuts, crumbled bread, andparsley. and various kinds of pastry, and other sweets. The repast isfrequently commenced with soup. and is generally ended with boiled rice,mixed with a little butter, and seasoned with salt and pepper. or afterthis, is served a water melon or other fruit, or a bowl of a sweet drinkcomposed of water with raisins, and sometimes other kinds of fruit,boiled in it, and then sugar, and with a little rose water added to itwhen cool. The meat, having generally little fat, is cooked withclarified butter, and is so thoroughly done that it is easily dividedwith the fingers.A whole lamb, stuffed in the same manner as the fowls above mentioned,is not a very uncommon dish. but one more extraordinary, of which'Abd El Laeef gives an account as one of the most remarkable thathe had seen in Egypt, I am tempted to describe. It was an enormous pie,composed in the following manner: Thirty pounds of fine flour beingkneaded with five pounds and a half of oil of sesame, and divided intotwo equal portions, one of these was spread upon a round tray of copper,about four spans in diameter. Upon this were placed three lambs, stuffedwith pounded meat fried with oil of sesame and ground pistachio nuts,and various hot aromatics, such as pepper, ginger, cinnamon, mastic,coriander seed, cumin seed, cardamom, nut ,  c. These werethen sprinkled with rose water infused with musk. and upon the lambs,and in the remaining spaces, were placed twenty fowls, twenty chickens,and fifty smaller birds. some of which were baked, and stuffed witheggs. some, stuffed with meat. and some, fried with the juice of sourgrapes, or that of limes, or some similar acid. To the above were addeda number of small pies. some filled with meat, and others with sugar andsweetmeats. and sometimes, the meat of another lamb, cut into smallpieces, and some fried cheese. The whole being piled up in the form of adome, some rose water infused with musk and aloes wood was sprinkledupon it. and the other half of the paste first mentioned was spreadover, so as to close the whole: it was then baked, wiped with a sponge,and again sprinkled with rose water infused with musk. A dish stillmore extraordinary will be described in a note on public Royal feasts.With respect to clean and unclean meats, the Muslim is subject to nearlythe same laws as the Jew. Swine's flesh, and blood, are especiallyforbidden to him. but camel's flesh is allowed. The latter, however,being of a coarse nature, is never eaten when any other meat can beobtained, excepting by persons of the lower classes, and by Arabs of thedesert. Of fish, almost every kind is eaten (excepting shell fish),usually fried in oil: of game, little. partly in consequence of frequentdoubt whether it have been lawfully killed. The diet consists, in agreat measure, of vegetables, and includes a large variety of pastry. Avery common kind of pastry is a pancake, which is made very thin, andfolded over several times like a napkin. it is saturated with butter,and generally sweetened with honey or sugar. as is also another commonkind, which somewhat resembles vermicelli.The usual beverage at meals is water, which is drunk from cooling,porous, earthen bottles, or from cups of brass or other metal: but inthe houses of the wealthy, sherbet is sometimes served instead of this,in covered glass cups, each of which contains about three quarters of apint. The sherbet is composed of water made very sweet with sugar, orwith a hard conserve of violets or roses or mulberries,  c. After everytime that a person drinks, he says, "Praise be to God." and each personof the company says to him, "May it be productive of enjoyment:" towhich he replies, "May God cause thee to have enjoyment." The Arabsdrink little or no water during a meal, but generally take a largedraught immediately after. The repast is quickly finished. and eachperson, as soon as he has done, says, "Praise be to God," or "Praise beto God, the Lord of all creatures." He then washes, in the same manneras before, but more thoroughly. well lathering his beard, and rinsinghis mouth. 18. This mode of shewing honour to a meritorious individual, ordistinguished guest, which is at least as ancient as the time ofAhasuerus, is still observed in Muslim countries. 19. The influence of the stars upon the dispositions and fortunesof mankind is firmly believed by the generality of Muslims, and is oftena matter of consideration previously to the uniting of two persons inmarriage. though the absurdity of such an opinion is declared in theirlaw. 20. _On the Distribution of Virtues and Vices among Mankind._ Ihave heard Arabs confess that their nation possesses nine tenths of theenvy that exists among all mankind collectively. but I have not seen anywritten authority for this. Ibn 'Abbas assigns nine tenths of theintrigue or artifice that exists in the world to the Copts. nine tenthsof the perfidy, to the Jews. nine tenths of the stupidity, to theMaghrabees. nine tenths of the hardness, to the Turks. and nine tenthsof the bravery, to the Arabs. According to Kaab El Abar, reason andsedition are most peculiar to Syria. plenty and degradation, to Egypt.and misery and health, to the Desert. In another account, faith andmodesty are said to be most peculiar to El Yemen. fortitude andsedition, to Syria. magnificence, or pride, and hypocrisy, to El 'Era.wealth and degradation, to Egypt. and poverty and misery, to theDesert. Of women, it is said, by Kaab El Abar, that the best in theworld (excepting those of the tribe of ureysh mentioned by the Prophet)are those of El Barah. and the worst in the world, those ofEgypt. 21. In the Cairo edition, King Yoonan is made to say, "I shouldrepent after it, as King Sindibad repented of killing the falcon." andthus is introduced an indifferent story in the place of that of theHusband and the Parrot. the former story describing a king as having,under an erroneous idea, killed a falcon that had prevented his drinkingpoison. The latter story I insert in preference, according to theCalcutta edition of the first two hundred nights, and the edition ofBreslau. 22. _On Miraculously gifted Birds._ An Arab historian would makeit to appear, that the intelligence and talent ascribed to this parrotare not nearly so wonderful as those which some birds have been known todisplay. He mentions a parrot which recited the Soorat Ya Seen (or 36thchapter of the ur an). and a raven which recited the Soorat es Sijdeh(or 32nd chapter), and which, on arriving at the place of prostration(or verse which should be recited with prostration), would perform thataction, and say, "My body prostrateth itself to Thee, and my heartconfideth in Thee." But these are not the most remarkable cases of thekind. He affirms that there was a parrot in Cairo which recited theur an from beginning to end. The Basha, he says, desiring to try itstalent, caused a man to recite a chapter of the ur an in its presence,and to pass irregularly from one chapter to another, with the view ofleading the bird into error: but, instead of this being the result, theparrot corrected him! 23. But a few years ago, it was a common custom for an Arabmerchant or shopkeeper of the higher class to wear a sword. and this notonly during a journey, but also during his ordinary walks or rides. Ihave seen many persons of this description so armed, and with a pair ofpistols stuck in the girdle. though seldom excepting in the former case.A dagger or case knife is a weapon now more commonly worn by suchpersons, both at home and abroad. 24. _On Hunting and Hawking._ Hunting and hawking, which werecommon and favourite diversions of the Arabs, and especially of theirkings and other great men, have now fallen into comparative disuse amongthis people. They are, however, still frequently practised by thePersians, and in a manner the same as they are generally described inthe present work. Sir John Malcolm was informed that these sports werenowhere found in greater perfection than in the neighbourhood ofAboo Shahr, where he witnessed and took part in them: I shall,therefore, here avail myself of his observations on this subject."The huntsmen," he says, "proceed to a large plain, or rather desert,near the sea side: they have hawks and greyhounds. the former carried inthe usual manner, on the hand of the huntsman. the latter led in a leashby a horseman, generally the same who carries the hawk. When theantelope is seen, they endeavour to get as near as possible. but theanimal, the moment it observes them, goes off at a rate that seemsswifter than the wind: the horsemen are instantly at full speed, havingslipped the dogs. If it is a single deer, they at the same time fly thehawks. but if a herd, they wait till the dogs have fixed on a particularantelope. The hawks, skimming along near the ground, soon reach thedeer, at whose head they pounce in succession, and sometimes with aviolence that knocks it over. (They are commonly described as pecking atthe poor creature's eyes until they blind it.) At all events, theyconfuse the animal so much as to stop its speed in such a degree thatthe dogs can come up with it. and, in an instant, men, horses, dogs, andhawks, surround the unfortunate deer, against which their united effortshave been combined. The part of the chase that surprised me most, wasthe extraordinary combination of the hawks and the dogs, whichthroughout seemed to look to each other for aid. This, I was told, wasthe result of long and skilful training. The antelope is supposed to bethe fleetest quadruped on earth. and the rapidity of the first burst ofthe chase I have described is astonishing. The run seldom exceeds threeor four miles, and often is not half so much. A fawn is an easy victory.the doe often runs a good chase. and the buck is seldom taken. The Arabsare, indeed, afraid to fly their hawks at the latter, as these finebirds, in pouncing, frequently impale themselves on its sharphorns. The hawks used in this sport are of a species that I have neverseen in any other country. This breed, which is called Cherkh, is notlarge, but of great beauty and symmetry."Another mode of running down the antelope is practised here, and stillmore in the interior of Persia. Persons of the highest rank lead theirown greyhounds in a long silken leash, which passes through the collar,and is ready to slip the moment the huntsman chooses. The well traineddog goes alongside the horse, and keeps clear of him when at full speed,and in all kinds of country. When a herd of antelopes is seen, aconsultation is held, and the most experienced determine the pointtowards which they are to be driven. The field (as an English sportsmanwould term it) then disperse, and, while some drive the herd in thedesired direction, those with the dogs take their post on the same line,at the distance of about a mile from each other. one of the worst dogsis then slipped at the herd, and from the moment he singles out anantelope the whole body are in motion. The object of the horsemen whohave greyhounds is to intercept its course, and to slip fresh dogs, insuccession, at the fatigued animal. In rare instances, the second dogkills. It is generally the third or fourth. and even these, when thedeer is strong, and the ground favourable, often fail. This sport, whichis very exhilarating, was the delight of the late King of Persia, AghaMoammad Khan, whose taste is inherited by the present sovereign."The novelty of these amusements interested me, and I was pleased, onaccompanying a party to a village, about twenty miles from Aboo Shahr,to see a species of hawking peculiar, I believe, to the sandy plains ofPersia, on which the obara, a noble species of bustard, is found onalmost bare plains, where it has no shelter but a small shrub called'geetuck.' When we went in quest of them, we had a party of abouttwenty, all well mounted. Two kinds of hawks are necessary for thissport. the first, the Cherkh (the same which is flown at the antelope),attacks them on the ground, but will not follow them on the wing. forthis reason, the 'Bhyree,' a hawk well known in India, is flown themoment the obara rises. As we rode along in an extended line, the menwho carried the Cherkhs every now and then unhooded and held them up,that they might look over the plain. The first obara we found affordedus a proof of the astonishing quickness of sight of one of the hawks: hefluttered to be loose, and the man who held him gave him a whoop as hethrew him off his hand, and set off at full speed. We all did the same.At first we only saw our hawk skimming over the plain, but soonperceived, at a distance of more than a mile, the beautiful speckledobara, with his head erect and wings outspread, running forward to meethis adversary. The Cherkh made several unsuccessful pounces, which wereeither evaded or repelled by the beak or wings of the obara, which atlast found an opportunity of rising, when a Bhyree was instantly flown,and the whole party were again at full gallop. We had a flight of morethan a mile, when the obara alighted, and was killed by another Cherkh,who attacked him on the ground. This bird weighed ten pounds. We killedseveral others, but were not always successful, having seen our hawkstwice completely beaten, during the two days we followed this finesport."The hunting of the wild ass is another sport of the Persians and Arabs,but one of a more difficult nature. This animal is found in Syria, andin the Nubian deserts, as well as in Arabia and Persia. The more commonkinds of game are gazelles, or antelopes, hares, partridges, the speciesof grouse called "aa," quails, wild geese, ducks,  c. Against all ofthese, the hawk is generally employed, but assisted in the capture ofgazelles and hares by dogs. The usual arms of the sportsmen, in thetimes to which the present work relates, were the bow and arrow, thecross bow, the spear, the sword, and the mace. When the game is struckdown, but not killed, by any weapon, its throat is immediately cut. Ifmerely stunned, and then left to die, its flesh is unlawful food. Someother laws respecting the killing of game have been mentioned in aformer note. but one has been there omitted which is worthy of remark,though it is often disregarded. it is, that hunting is allowable onlyfor the purpose of procuring food, or to obtain the skin of an animal,or for the sake of destroying ferocious and dangerous beasts. Amusementis certainly, in general, the main object of the Muslim huntsman, but hedoes not, with this view, endeavour to prolong the chase. on thecontrary, he strives to take the game as quickly as possible. for thispurpose, nets are often employed, and the hunting party, forming what iscalled the circle of the chase (alat e eyd), surround the spot inwhich the game is found."On the eastern frontiers of Syria," says Burckhardt, "are severalplaces allotted for the hunting of gazelles: these places are called'masiade' . An open space in the plain, ofabout one mile and a half square, is enclosed on three sides by a wallof loose stones, too high for the gazelles to leap over. In differentparts of this wall, gaps are purposely left, and near each gap a deepditch is made on the outside. The enclosed space is situated near somerivulet or spring to which, in summer, the gazelles resort. When thehunting is to begin, many peasants assemble, and watch till they see aherd of gazelles advancing from a distance towards the enclosure, intowhich they drive them: the gazelles, frightened by the shouts of thesepeople, and the discharge of fire arms, endeavour to leap over the wall,but can only effect this at the gaps, where they fall into the ditchoutside, and are easily taken, sometimes by hundreds. The chief of theherd always leaps first: the others follow him one by one. The gazellesthus taken are immediately killed, and their flesh is sold to the Arabsand neighbouring Fellas." 25. In the Cairo edition, the word "jezeereh" (an island) iserroneously put for "kharabeh" (a ruin). 26. "Ghooleh" is the feminine of "Ghool." The Ghool is a fabulousbeing, of which some account has been given in No. 21 of the notes tothe Introduction. 27. This epithet of the Deity appears to be used in preference toothers in this instance, in order to imply that God always decrees whatis best for a virtuous man, even when the reverse would seem to us to bethe case. He is here described as appointing that the sage should die aviolent death. but this death, being unmerited, raised him, according toMohammadan notions, to the rank of a martyr.In the edition from which my translation is chiefly made, four poeticalquotations are here inserted on the subject of fate, and the inutilityof anxious forebodings. The first of these is as follows: "O thou who fearest thy fate, be at ease. commit thine affairsunto Him who spread out the earth.For what is predestined cannot be cancelled. and thou art securefrom every thing that is not predestined." 28. _The Fable of the Crocodile._ Perhaps the reader may desire toknow what is the story which the sage Dooban declined to relate. I willtherefore supply the omission as well as my memory will allow me. I haveheard this fable differently told by different persons. and it issometimes spun out to a considerable length. but the principal points ofit are these: A crocodile, having crawled far from the Nile, over adesert tract, found his strength so exhausted by fatigue and thirst,that he despaired of being able to return to the river. While he was inthis unhappy state, an Arab with his camel approached him, proceeding inthe desired direction. and he appealed to his compassion, entreatingthat he would bind him on the back of the camel, and so convey him tothe Nile, and promising that he would afterwards, in return for thisfavour, carry him across to the opposite bank. The Arab answered, thathe feared the crocodile would, as soon as he was unbound, turn upon him,and devour him. but the monster swore so solemnly that he wouldgratefully requite the service he requested, that the man was induced toconsent. and, making his camel lie down, bound the crocodile firmly uponhis back, and brought him to the bank of the river. No sooner, however,was the horrid creature liberated, than, in spite of his vows, he openedhis hideous jaws to destroy his benefactor, who, though he eluded thisdanger, was unable to rescue his camel. At this moment a fox drew nearthem. The man, accosting this cunning animal, related his tale. and thecrocodile urged in his own excuse, that the man had spitefully bound himon the back of the camel in such a manner that he had almost killed him.The fox replied that he could quickly pursue and capture the man, butthat he must act fairly, and first see the whole transaction repeatedbefore him. The crocodile, assenting, and submitting to have a noosethrown over his jaws, was again bound on the back of the camel, andtaken to the place whence he was brought. and as soon as this was done,the man, by the direction of the fox, holding with one hand the halterof his camel, with the other cut the ropes which secured his burden, andhasted away with his beast, leaving the ungrateful and treacherousmonster in the same hopeless state in which he had found him. 29. This comparison is perfectly just. My first visit to Egypt wasnot too late for me to witness such a scene as that which is herealluded to. but now, throughout the Turkish dominions, the officers ofgovernment are obliged, more or less, to assimilate their style of dressto that which commonly prevails in Europe. gaudy colours are out offashion among them, and silk embroidery is generally preferred to gold:in Egypt, however, the dress worn by this class of persons has not beenso much altered as in Turkey, still retaining an Oriental character,though wanting the shawl which was wound round the red cap, and formedthe turban. while the dress worn by other classes has undergone nochange. (This note still applies to the inhabitants of Egypt, with theexception of the Turks, who have very generally adopted the modernTurkish, or semi European dress. ED.) 30. This story of the head speaking after it was cut off is notwithout a parallel in the writings of Arab historians. The head ofSa'eed, the son of Jubeyr, is said to have uttered the words, "There isno deity but God," after it had been severed from his body by order ofEl ajjaj, who is related to have killed a hundred and twenty thousandpersons of note, besides those whom he slew in war. 31. I do not remember to have read or heard the story of Umameh and'Atikeh, who, as their names import, were two females. 32. The words here quoted are part of the 36th verse of the 17thchapter of the ur an. 33. The title of "Sulan" is higher than that of "Melik" (or King):a Sulan, properly speaking, being a monarch who has kings or viceroysunder his authority. 34. _On_ Kol, _and the mode of applying it_. Kol is a blackpowder, with which most of the Arab, and many other, women blacken theedges of the eyelids. The most common kind is the smoke black which isproduced by burning a kind of frankincense. An inferior kind is thesmoke black produced by burning the shells of almonds. These arebelieved to be beneficial to the eyes. but are generally used merely forthe sake of ornament. Among other kinds which are particularly employedfor their beneficial effect upon the eye are several ores of lead,reduced to a fine powder. Antimony is said to have been, in formertimes, the most esteemed kind of kol. The powder is applied by means ofa small probe of wood, ivory, or silver, the end of which is moistened,and then dipped in the powder, and drawn along the edges of theeyelids. 35. The Koofeeyeh is described in a great Arabic Lexicon (Tajel 'Aroos) as "a thing worn on the head. so called because of itsroundness:" and this is the only description of it that I have been ableto find. I was told in Cairo, that "koofeeyeh" is the correctappellation of the head kerchief commonly called "keffeeyeh:" but thisis a mistake. The latter is a square kerchief, which is worn on thehead, measuring about a yard in each direction, and of various colours,generally a dull, brownish red, bright green, and yellow, composingbroad and narrow stripes, and having a deep fringe of strings andtassels along two opposite edges. The most common kind is entirely ofcotton. another, of cotton interwoven with silk. and a third, of silkinterwoven with gold. It is now chiefly worn by the Wahhabees andseveral tribes of Bedawees. but the former wear only the first kind, asthey hold articles of dress composed wholly or partly of silk or gold tobe unlawful. In former times it was in common use among the inhabitantsof the towns. It is mostly worn by men, and is doubled diagonally, andplaced over the cap in such a manner that the two corners which arefolded together hang down the back. and the other two corners, in front.A piece of woollen rope, or a strip of rag, or a turban, is generallywound round it. and the corners, or those only which usually hang downin front, are sometimes turned up, and tucked within the upper edge ofthe turban. The inhabitants of the towns usually wear the turban overthe keffeeyeh. Burckhardt, who calls this head kerchief "keffie,"mentions, that the Bedawees of Mekkeh and El Yemen tie over it, insteadof the woollen rope which is used by the Northern Bedawees, "a circlemade of wax, tar, and butter, strongly kneaded together: this," he adds,"is pressed down to the middle of the head, and looks like the airycrown of a saint. It is about the thickness of a finger. and they takeit off very frequently to press it between their hands, so that itsshape may be preserved." The better kinds of keffeeyeh abovementioned are worn by some of the Turks, but not in the Arab manner.being wound tight round the cap. 36. _Anecdote of a Miraculous Fish._ This story of the miraculousfish reminds me of one of a similar kind which is related as authentic.A certain just judge of the Israelites, in the time of Solomon, had awife who, every time that she brought him his food, used to ejaculate aprayer that disgrace might befall every unfaithful wife. One day, thiswoman having placed before her husband a fried fish, and repeated herusual ejaculation, the fish leaped from the dish, and fell upon thefloor. This happened three times. and, in consequence of a suspicionexpressed by a devotee, who was consulted respecting the meaning of thisstrange event, the judge discovered that a supposed maid, whom he hadpurchased as a slave, was a disguised man. 37. This comparison is not intended to be understood in its literalsense, for the smallest of the tribe of 'Ad is said to have been sixtycubits high: the largest, a hundred! The tribe of 'Ad were a race ofancient Arabs, who, according to the ur an and Arab historians, weredestroyed by a suffocating wind, for their infidelity, after theirrejection of the admonitions of the prophet Hood. 38. The Arabs generally calculate distances by time. The averagedistance of a day's journey is from twenty to twenty five miles. theformer being the usual rate of caravan travelling. 39. _On the Privacy of Arab Dwellings._ In a palace, or largehouse, there is generally a wide bench of stone, or a wooden couch,within the outer door, for the accommodation of the door keeper andother servants. The entrance passage leads to an open court, and, forthe sake of preventing persons at the entrance, or a little within it,from seeing into the court, it usually has two turnings. We may,therefore, understand the motive of the King in seating himself in theplace here described to have been a desire that he might not, ifdiscovered, be supposed to be prying impertinently into the interior ofthe palace. Respect for the privacy of another's house is a point thatis deemed of so much importance that it is insisted upon in the ur an,in these words: "O ye who have become believers, enter not any houses,besides your own houses, until ye shall have asked leave, and salutedtheir inhabitants. this will be better for you: peradventure ye will beadmonished. And if ye find not in them any person, enter them not, untilleave be granted you. and if it be said unto you, Return, then do yereturn. this will be more decent for you. and God knoweth what ye do.But it shall be no crime in you that ye enter uninhabited houses whereinye may find a convenience." When a visiter finds the door open, andno servant below, he usually claps his hands as a signal for someperson to come to him. striking the palm of his left hand with thefingers of the right: and even when leave has been granted him to enter,it is customary for him, when he has to ascend to an upper apartment, torepeat several times some ejaculation, such as "Permission!" or, "OProtector!" (that is, "O protecting God!"), as he goes up, in order thatany female of the family, who may chance to be in the way, may havenotice of his approach, and either retire or veil herself. Sometimes theservant who precedes him does this in his stead. 40. These verses are translated from the Calcutta edition of thefirst two hundred nights, as more apposite than those which are insertedin their place in the edition of Cairo. 41. That the reader may not form wrong conceptions of thecharacters of many persons portrayed in this work, it is necessary toobserve, that weeping is not regarded by the Arabs as an evidence of aneffeminate disposition, or inconsistent with even a heroic mind. thoughthe Muslims in general are remarkable for the calmness with which theyendure the heaviest afflictions. 42. It is, perhaps, unnecessary to mention, that it is a commoncustom of the Orientals, as of other natives of warm climates, to take anap in the afternoon. A tradesman is not unfrequently seen enjoying thisluxury in his shop, and seldom, excepting in this case, is it consideredallowable to wake a person. 43. _Description of Arab Fans._ The kind of fan most commonly usedby the Arabs has the form of a small flag. The flap, which is about sixor seven inches in width, and somewhat more in length, is composed ofsplit palm leaves of various colours, or some plain and others coloured,neatly plaited or woven together. The handle is a piece of palm stick,about twice the length of the flap. This fan is used by men as well aswomen, and for the double purpose of moderating the heat and repellingthe flies, which, in warm weather, are excessively annoying. It is moreeffective than the ordinary European fan, and requires less exertion.Arabian fans of the kind here described, brought from Mekkeh to Cairo asarticles of merchandise, may be purchased in the latter city for a sumless than a penny each. they are mostly made in the ejaz. Anotherkind of fan, generally composed of black ostrich feathers, of largedimensions, and ornamented with a small piece of looking glass on thelower part of the front, is often used by the Arabs. A kind of fly whiskmade of palm leaves is also in very general use. A servant or slave isoften employed to wave it over the master or mistress during a meal oran afternoon nap. 44. Mes'oodeh is the feminine of Mes'ood, a name before explained,as signifying "happy," or "made happy." 45. The word which I have here rendered "wine" namely, "sharab" isapplied to any drink, and particularly to a sweet beverage. but, in thepresent case, the context shews that its signification is that which Ihave given it. The description of a carousal in the next chapter willpresent a more fit occasion for my considering at large the custom ofdrinking wine as existing among the Arabs. 46. _On the Use of Hemp to induce Intoxication._ The name of"benj," or "beng," is now, and, I believe, generally, given to henbane.but El azweenee states that the leaves of the garden hemp (innebbustanee, or shahdanaj,) are the benj which, when eaten, disorders thereason. This is an important confirmation of De Sacy's opinionrespecting the derivation of the appellation of "Assassins" fromashshasheen (hemp eaters, or persons who intoxicate themselves withhemp). as the sect which we call "Assassins" are expressly said by theArabs to have made frequent use of benj. To this subject I shallhave occasion to revert. I need only add here, that the custom of usingbenj, and other narcotics, for purposes similar to that described inthis tale, is said to be not very unfrequently practised in the presentday. but as many Arab husbands are extremely suspicious of the characterof women in general, perhaps there is but little ground for thisassertion. 47. Most Eastern cities and towns are partly or wholly surroundedby mounds of rubbish, close to the walls. and upon these mounds arethrown the carcasses of camels, horses, and other beasts, to be devouredby dogs and vultures. Immense mounds of this unsightly descriptionentirely surrounded the city of Cairo. but those which extended alongits western side, and, in a great measure, screened it from the view ofpersons approaching from the Nile, have lately been removed by order ofthe present Basha of Egypt. (This note was written in the year 1838, inthe time of Moammad 'Alee. ED.) 48. "ubbeh" generally signifies either a dome or a cupola, or abuilding or apartment surmounted by a dome. In the present instance itis to be understood in the latter sense. It is also applied to a closet,and to a tent. 49. "af" is generally to be understood, as it is in the presentcase. to signify the chain of mountains believed, by the Muslims, toencircle our earth, as mentioned in a former note. It is also the nameof the chain of Caucasus, and hence it has been supposed that the fablerespecting the mountains before mentioned, originated from an early ideathat the chain of Caucasus was the limit of the habitable earth. but itis possible that the latter mountains may have derived their name froman imaginary resemblance to the former. 50. Rats, though unlawful food to the Muslim, are occasionallyeaten by many of the peasants of the province of Lower Egypt calledEl Boeyreh, on the west of the western branch of the Nile. Theextraordinary abundance of these animals, and mice, throughout Egypt,gave rise to an absurd fable, which is related by Diodorus Siculusas a matter worthy of serious consideration: that these creatures aregenerated from the alluvial soil deposited by the Nile. The inundationdrives many of them from the fields to the houses and deserts, anddestroys the rest. but soon after the waters have subsided, vast numbersof them are seen again, taking refuge in the deep clefts of the parchedsoil. 51. _On the Beverage called_ Booah. Booah, or boozeh, is afavourite beverage of the boatmen, and other persons of the lower class,in Egypt. and more especially of the Nubians and negroes. as it was,according to Herodotus and other writers, of the ancient Egyptians.It is an intoxicating liquor, a kind of beer, most commonly preparedfrom barley bread, crumbled, mixed with water, strained, and left toferment. It is also prepared from wheat and from millet in the samemanner. The account of Herodotus has been confirmed by the discovery oflarge jars, containing the dregs of the barley beer in ancient tombs atThebes. 52. _On the Apparel,  c., of Mourning._ The wearing of mourningappears to have been a custom of both sexes among the Arabs in earliertimes, for the black clothing which distinguished the 'AbbaseeKhaleefehs and their officers was originally assumed in testimony ofgrief for the death of the Imam Ibraheem Ibn Moammad. It has, however,ceased to be worn by men, as indicating a want of resignation to thedecrees of Providence, and is only assumed by women on the occasion ofthe death of a husband or near relation, and not for an elderly person.In the former cases they dye their shirts, head veils, face veils, andhandkerchiefs, of a blue or almost black colour, with indigo. andsometimes, with the same dye, stain their hands and arms as high as theelbows, and smear the walls of their apartments. They generally abstainfrom wearing any article of dress of a bright colour, leave their hairunbraided, and deck themselves with few or no ornaments. They also ceaseto make use of perfumes, kol, and enna. and often turn upside down thecarpets, mats, cushions, and coverings of the deewans. 53. "Houses of Lamentations," erected in burial grounds for theaccommodation of ladies on the occasions of their visiting the tombs oftheir relations, have been mentioned in a former note respecting the twogrand annual festivals. 54. The kind of tomb here alluded to is generally a square buildingcrowned by a dome. 55. This passage deserves particular notice, as being one of thosewhich assist us to form some opinion respecting the period when thepresent work, in the states in which it is known to us, was composed orcompiled or remodelled. It is the same in all the copies of the originalwork that I have seen, and bears strong evidence of having been writtensubsequently to the commencement of the eighth century of the Flight, orfourteenth of our era, at which period, it appears, the Christians andJews were first compelled to distinguish themselves by wearing,respectively, blue and yellow turbans, in accordance with an orderissued by the Sultan of Egypt, Moammad Ibn Kala oon. Thus thewhite turban became peculiar to the Muslims. An eminent German critichas been unfortunate in selecting the incident of the four fish asaffording an argument in favour of his opinion that the Tales of aThousand and One Nights are of Indian origin, on the mere ground thatthe same word (_varna_) is used in Sanscrit to signify both "colour" and"caste." 56. The Muslims often implore the intercession of their prophet,and of various members of his family and other holy persons, thoughtheir ordinary prayers are addressed solely to God. The regard whichthey pay to their reputed saints, both living and deceased, asmediators, is one of the heresies which the Wahhabees most vehementlycondemn. 57. This verse, translated from my usual prototype, the Cairoedition, is there followed by another, which I omit as being inapposite. 58. In the first of the notes to the Introduction, I have mentionedthat it is a general custom of the Muslims to repeat this phrase, "Inthe name of God!" on commencing every lawful action that is of anyimportance. it is, therefore, here employed, as it is in many similarcases, to express a readiness to do what is commanded or requested. andis equivalent to saying, "I this instant begin to execute thy orders." 59. The condition and offices of memlooks, who are male whiteslaves, have been mentioned in the thirteenth note to the first chapter. 60. Eastern histories present numerous instances of marriages asunequal as those here related. the reader, therefore, must not regardthis part of the story as inconsistent.