 1. Damascus is afterwards mentioned in the original as the abode ofthis merchant's family. but not here. 2. "Ghanim" signifies "a taker of spoil," "a fortunate acquirer ofanything." and "Eiyoob" is the name which _we_ call "Job." 3. "Fitneh" signifies "temptation," "seduction," "disturbance,"  c. 4. By the term "loads" we are always to understand "camel loads,"unless it is otherwise expressed. A camel load is generally about threehundred weights. 5. Or vesicles of musk. In the original, "nawafe" is put for"nawafij." 6. A great recompense in the world to come is to be the lot of himwho takes part in a funeral procession. 7. The ablution was necessary to qualify Ghanim for joining in theprayer over the dead. 8. "awab" signifies "rectitude." 9. "Kafoor" is the Arabic for "camphor." Instances of antiphrasisin the names given to black slaves are very common. 10. "Bakheet" signifies "fortunate," from "bakht" ("fortune"), aword borrowed from the Persian. 11. I am not sure that this is to be understood as a jest. for Ihave been assured, by a slave dealer and other persons in Cairo, thatsometimes slaves brought to that city are found to be cannibals. andthat a proof lately occurred there. an infant having been eaten by itsblack nurse. I was also told that these cannibals are generallydistinguished by an elongation of the os coccygis. or in other words,that they have tails! 12. The story here alluded to is inserted in the original. but,being extremely objectionable, and too short and simple to be abridged,I have been compelled to omit it altogether. 13. This story is not in the old version. but I think the readerwill consider it worthy of insertion in the present series, as anamusing illustration of the customs which are often observed by theArabs on the occasion of the death of the master of a family. I can beartestimony to the general correctness of the picture which it presents.or rather state, that the greatest of the extravagances which itdescribes are not unfrequently practised in the present day. 14. As the Arab women are much more reluctant to uncover the upperand back part of the head than they are to shew the face, before strangemen, such a scene as that which is here described is very seldomwitnessed. but I have seen not so unfrequently a woman with her faceuncovered, and besmeared with mud, on her receiving the news of thesudden death of a near relation. 15. This, to some readers, may require explanation. To free a slavewho has no means of providing for himself, and not to grant him anymeans to do so, is almost the heaviest punishment that can be inflictedupon him. and to do this, unless for a heinous crime, is considereddisgraceful. 16. This is not just. for as soon as the slave is emancipated he islegally free, without doubt: but it is inserted in the tale as ajest. 17. See Note 46 to Chapter ii. This mode of disposing of a rivalin the areem is said to have been not very unfrequently adopted. 18. I suspect that the original presents here an error, which Ihave endeavoured to correct. The names which the lady ejaculates are tobe understood as those of female slaves, her attendants."Zahr el Bustan" signifies "Flower of the Garden." "abeeah,""Beautiful." "Shejeret ed Durr," "Tree of Pearls" (this is the vulgarmode of pronouncing "Shejer ed Durr," which was the name of the wife ofthe Sulan E ale Nejm ed Deen, afterwards Queen of Egypt)."Noor el Huda," "Light of Day," or "Light of Guidance.""Nejmet e ub," "Star of the Morning." "Nuzheh," "Delight." "ulweh,""Sweet." and "areefeh," "Elegant." 19. From this point, to the relation of the stratagem employed byZubeydeh, I omit much that is unsuitable for insertion in thetranslation, as approaching to licentiousness. 20. Perhaps it is unnecessary to mention, that "the Prophet'sUncle" here alluded to was El 'Abbas. and that the "descendant" wasHaroon Er Rasheed. 21. "oot el uloob" signifies "Food (or Sustenance) of Hearts." 22. As black, which was the distinguishing colour of the bannersand dress of the 'Abbasee Khaleefehs, was originally assumed in token ofmourning for such of their relations as were victims of the Umawees, itmay have continued for a long time to be used for a similar purpose: butthe modern colour of mourning among the Arabs is blue. and it isremarkable that the term which properly signifies "black" is commonlyapplied by them to dark blue. On the subject of mourning, see Note 52to Chapter ii. 23. "Kheyzuran" and "aeeb" signify respectively, "a Cane"(particularly "Indian Cane"), and "a Rod," or "a long and slenderBranch." 24. See note 85 to Chapter iii. 25. By "the Sulan" is meant the Viceroy of Damascus, though thetitle is improperly used in this sense. 26. The account of the disgusting treatment of Ghanim's mother andsister, which follows in this place in the old version, is not in eitherof the copies of the original which I possess, containing this tale.Hence, and as it is extremely inconsistent with Arab customs andfeelings, I have little doubt of its being an interpolation by someignorant copyist. 27. See Note 18 to Chapter vi. 28, By Ghanim's areem, we are here to understand his mother andsister. the term "areem" being often used to signify a man's femalerelations residing in his house. 29. It is implied that she visited the sheykhs (by which are heremeant the devotees) to request the aid of their prayers. and gave almsfor the sake (or in the name) of Ghanim in order to propitiateProvidence in his favour. 30. _On the Charitable Disposition of the Arabs._ Some remarkswhich I have made on this subject with reference to the Egyptians, in aformer work, are equally applicable to the Arabs in general."Benevolence and charity to the poor are virtues which the Egyptianspossess in an eminent degree, and which are instilled into their heartsby religion. but from their own profession it appears that they are asmuch excited to the giving of alms by the expectation of enjoyingcorresponding rewards in heaven, as by pity for the distresses of theirfellow creatures, or a disinterested wish to do the will of God. It maybe attributed, in some measure, to the charitable disposition of theinhabitants, that beggars are so numerous in Cairo. The many handsomeSebeels, or public fountains (buildings erected and endowed for thegratuitous supply of water to passengers), which are seen in this city,and the more humble structures of the same kind in the villages andfields, are monuments of the same virtue." So also the numerousKhans for the reception of travellers, in countries occupied by theArabs, bear testimony to the charity of this people. 31. This is often said by an Arab to a person against whom he knowsor fears himself to have committed an offence. The most urgent reasonfor doing so may be seen by reverting to No. 9 of the notes to Chapteriv. 32. This compliment has occasioned, in the old version, an error ofthe most serious kind, by its having been understood in its literalsense. Ghanim is made to propose that the Khaleefeh should take hissister as one of his favourites (_i. e._ concubines). which, as she wasa free woman, would be a crime of the foulest nature. 33. We are to understand this sum of money as being Fitneh'sdowry. Here it may be mentioned, that the Khaleefeh, by marryingFitneh, severely punished Zubeydeh: for he thus gave her a wife, insteadof a concubine, as a rival. 34. _On the Passion of Love among the Arabs._ A few remarks onthis subject may be inserted to justify the picture of love presented inthe foregoing tale. That sensual passion is most prevalent among theArabs cannot be doubted. but I think it unjust to suppose them generallyincapable of a purer feeling, worthy, if constancy be a sufficient test,of being termed true love. That they are not so, appears evident toalmost every person who mixes with them in familiar society. for such aperson must have opportunities of being acquainted with many Arabssincerely attached to wives whose personal charms have long vanished,and who have neither wealth nor influence of their own, nor wealthy norinfluential relations, to induce their husbands to refrain fromdivorcing them. It very often happens, too, that an Arab is sincerelyattached to a wife possessed, even in the best portion of her age, offew charms. and that the lasting favourite among two or more wives isnot the most handsome. This opinion, I am sorry to observe, is atvariance, as far as the Arabs of the _towns_ are concerned, with thatentertained by one of the most intelligent and experienced of moderntravellers, who long resided among this people, the justly celebratedBurckhardt: but it is confirmed by numerous facts related byrespectable Arab authors (and therefore not regarded by them as of anincredible nature), as well as by cases which have fallen under my ownobservation. The tale of Leyla and Mejnoon, "the Juliet and Romeo ofArabia," is too well known to be here repeated. but among many otheranecdotes of strong and constant love, the following may be inserted: The Khaleefeh Yezeed the son of 'Abd El Melik, it is said, had twofemale slaves. one of whom was named abbabeh, and the other, Selameh.to the former of whom he was most ardently attached: he had purchasedher for a hundred thousand dirhems. and the other, for ten thousand. Inthe company of these two females he sometimes shut himself up for threemonths together, utterly neglecting the affairs of his people. Atlength, being reproved for this conduct by his brother Meslemeh, hepromised to return to his duty: but the two slaves diverted him from hispurpose. and on the following morning, excited by their songs andcaresses, and by wine, he became frantic with pleasure, and danced andsang like a madman, till a fatal accident put a stop to his joy:abbabeh, eating a pomegranate, was choked by one of the grains, andimmediately died. The grief of Yezeed was so poignant that he would notquit the corpse, but continued to kiss and fondle it until it becameputrid. Being then admonished by his attendants that proper respectrequired its burial, he consented to commit it to the earth: after fivedays, however, his desire again to behold the object of his love inducedhim to open the grave, and though the corpse had become hideous, hedeclared that it was lovely as ever in his eyes. At the earnest requestof Meslemeh, he ordered the grave to be closed again. but he was unableto exist when deprived of the sight of the remains of her who was at thesame time his slave and his mistress: he threw himself upon his bed,speechless. and after lingering seventeen nights, expired, and wasburied by the side of abbabeh. "May God," says the narrator, "havemercy on them both!"In the same work from which the above is taken, it is related thatHaroon Er Rasheed, visiting Suleyman the son of Aboo Jaafar, one of hischief officers, saw with him a female slave, named a'eefeh, ofexcessive beauty, and being smitten by her charms, demanded her as apresent. His request was granted. but Suleyman from grief at the loss ofhis mistress, fell sick. and during his illness was heard to exclaim, "I appeal unto God against the affliction which He hath sentupon me through the Khaleefeh.The world heareth of his justice. but he is a tyrant in the affairof a'eefeh.Love of her is fixed in my heart as ink upon the surface of paper."Er Rasheed, being informed of his complaint, restored to him hismistress, and, with her, his peace of mind. This anecdote is given as aproof of strong love. but perhaps may not be thought much to thepurpose. The following, from the same work, is more apt.During the hottest hour of an excessively sultry day, the KhaleefehMo'awiyeh the son of Aboo Sufyan was sitting in a chamber which was openon each side to allow free passage to the air, when he beheld abarefooted Bedawee approaching him. Wondering what could induce this manto brave the scorching heat, he declared to his attendants that, if hewere come to demand of him any favour or aid or act of justice, hisrequest should be granted. The Bedawee addressed him, in verse, with apathetic appeal for justice against the tyranny of Marwan the son ofEl akam (afterwards Khaleefeh, Mo'awiyeh's fourth successor), by whomhe had been forcibly deprived of his beloved wife, named Soada. TheKhaleefeh requiring a more particular account of his case, he relatedthe following facts. He had a wife, the daughter of his paternal uncle,excessively beloved by him, and he possessed a number of camels, whichenabled him to live in comfort. but a year of terrible drought deprivedhim of his property, and reduced him to utter want: his friends desertedhim, and his wife was taken away from him by her father. To seekredress, he repaired to Marwan, the Governor of his district, atEl Medeeneh, who, having summoned the father of his wife, and herself,was so smitten by the beauty of the woman that he determined to obtainher for himself in marriage. to accomplish which, he threw the husbandinto prison, and offered the father of the woman a thousand deenars andten thousand dirhems for his consent to his marriage with her, promisingto compel her actual husband to divorce her. and this latter object,having obtained the father's approval, he gained by severely torturingthe unfortunate Bedawee. It would have been vain for the woman toattempt resistance. and so she became the wife of Marwan. The oppressedBedawee, having related these circumstances, fell down in a swoon, andlay on the floor senseless, coiled up like a dead snake. As soon as herecovered, the Khaleefeh wrote a poetical epistle to Marwan, severelyreproaching him for his baseness, and commanding him, on pain of death,to divorce the woman and send her with his messenger. She wasaccordingly divorced and sent, with an answer composed in the samemeasure and rhyme, assuring the Khaleefeh that the sight of Soada wouldconvince him that her charms were irresistible. and this proved tootrue. Mo'awiyeh himself no sooner saw her than he coveted the possessionof her, and offered to give the Bedawee, if he would resign her to him,three virgins from among his female slaves, together with a thousanddeenars, and an ample annual pension. The Bedawee shrieked with dismay,as though he had received his death blow. and indignantly rejected theoffer. The Khaleefeh then said to him, "Thou confessest that thou hastdivorced her, and Marwan has married her and acknowledged that he hasdivorced her: we will therefore give her her choice: if she desire anyother than thee as her husband we will marry her to him, and if sheprefer thee we will restore her to thee." She however preferred thedestitute Bedawee, and the Khaleefeh gave her up to him, with a presentof ten thousand dirhems.Numerous instances of unreasonable love are recorded in the writings ofArabs. It is related that a man fell in love with a female from seeingthe impression of her hand upon a wall. and being unable to obtainpossession of her, died. Many men are said, to have conceived a violentpassion for females seen in dreams: others, again, to have been thusaffected merely by the ear. An author relates his having been acquaintedwith an accomplished schoolmaster who lost his heart from hearing a mansing the praises of a woman named Umm 'Amr, and two days after, shuthimself up in his house to mourn for her death, in consequence of hishearing the same man sing, "The ass went away with Umm 'Amr. and she returned not, nor didthe ass return."But a few anecdotes may be considered as rare exceptions to a generalrule. I think, however, that strong evidences of the existence of truelove among all classes of the Arabs are afforded by their very numeroustales of fiction descriptive of this passion.Marginal note by my sheykh.Modern Egyptians, vol. i. ch. xiii.I may suffer in public estimation for my differing in opinion fromthis accomplished traveller and most estimable man. but I cannot, onthat account, abstain from the expression of my dissent. Our difference,I think, may be thus explained. He conformed, in a great degree, to thehabits of the Arabs. but not to such an extent as I consider necessaryto obtain from them that confidence in his sympathy which would inducethem to lay open to him their character. and when a man is often treatedwith coldness and reserve, I doubt whether the people from whom heexperiences such treatment can be judged by him with strictimpartiality. To be received on terms of equality by Arabs of the morepolished classes, an undeviating observance of their code of etiquetteis absolutely indispensable: but Burckhardt, I have been assured, oftenviolated this code, by practices harmless enough to our notions, andprobably, also, in the opinion of the Arabs of the Desert, but extremelyoffensive to the people who enjoyed the least share of his esteem: hismost intimate acquaintances in Cairo generally refused, in speaking ofhim, to designate him by the title of "sheykh" which he had adopted. andyet the heaviest charge that I heard brought against him was hisfrequent habit of _whistling_! This fact has been mentioned, ascorroborating an observation of the same kind, by Mr. Urquhart ("Spiritof the East," vol. i. pp. 417 and 418), all of whose opinions relatingto the East, expressed in the work here referred to, and especiallythose regarding the characteristics of the Eastern _mind_, are entitledto the highest respect.(A very remarkable instance, confirming Mr. Lane's opinion of theexistence of true love among the Arabs, occurred during my residencewith him in Cairo. The wife of a man of good birth, and holding a highposition in that city, was accused of carrying on an intrigue whilevisiting the tombs of her relations. Her family claimed her inaccordance with the law, and threatened to put her to death, as the lawwould undoubtedly have justified them in doing, if the case were provedagainst her. Her husband was much attached to her she was his first andonly wife and he believed, with reason, that the accusation was false:at the same time he knew that she would in all likelihood find itimpossible to clear herself in a court of law, where justice is onlyaccidentally awarded, and had good cause to fear that her male relationswould put her to death without a hearing. He therefore adopted theextraordinary expedient of taking her secretly to the house of a marriedEuropean gentleman of his acquaintance. There she remained concealed forsome time, her husband visiting her daily, and shewing the most perfectconfidence in his friend. while the latter was almost confined to oneroom, never venturing into the areem without calling "Permission!" atevery few steps. In the mean time, the indignation of the lady's friendscooled, and the affair was cleared up. She has since lived in perfecthappiness with her husband.To any one familiar with Eastern customs and modes of thought, astronger proof of sincere love could scarcely be given, than that a manshould thus set aside the strongest prejudices of his nation to save thehonour, and perhaps the life, of his wife, disbelieving a report which,from its plausibility, might have been accepted without hesitation. Thefacilities afforded by the visits to the cemeteries are notorious, andthe state of morals among the women of Egypt unfortunately makes theirdefence difficult in a suspicious case. ED.)Kitab el 'Onwan fee Mekaid en Niswan (MS. in mypossession).This word slightly varied (changed to a'eefih) bearsanother meaning. namely, "his weak one:" the final vowel beingsuppressed by the rule of waf.Kitab el 'Onwan,  c.