 1. The next story to that of Ghanim, in my original, is one of verygreat length, comprising the greater part of the forty fourth night andextending to the end of the hundred and forty fifth. but interrupted bythe contents of my eighth chapter, which consists of two stories of avery different kind, that appear to have been introduced to relieve itstediousness. With these, it occupies nearly 162 pages, or not much lessthan an eighth part of the whole work. It is the story of the King 'OmarEn Noaman, and his two sons Sharr kan and hisdaughter Nuzhet ez Zeman,  c. It is entirely a fiction, professedlyrelating to the first century of the Mohammadan era, "before the reignof the Khaleefeh 'Abd El Melik the son of Marwan." and its main subjectis a war with two Greek Kings. Taken altogether, I deem it unworthy of aplace in the present series of tales. and so much of it depends uponincidents of a most objectionable nature, that I cannot attempt toabridge it. but a pleasant tale might be composed from it byconsiderable _alterations_.One of the two stories which I have extracted from it, that ofTaj el Mulook and the Lady Dunya, bears apparent indications of aPersian origin. but in their present state, the manners and customs  c.which both exhibit are Arab. The scenes of the events narrated in thestory of Taj el Mulook are in Persia and, probably, in India. butimaginary names appear to be given to the several kingdoms mentioned init: the kingdom of El Ar el Khara ("the Green Country") andEl 'Amoodeyn (which signifies "the Two Columns") is said to include themountains of Ipahan, and its locality is thereby sufficientlyindicated: that of El Ar el Beya ("the White Country") I suppose to bein Persia or India: and as to the Islands of Camphor, I fancy we must becontent to consider them vaguely as appertaining to India: the countryin which 'Azeez and 'Azeezeh resided is said to have been near to theIslands of Camphor. but their story is perfectly Arab. The Island ofCamphor is also mentioned in the Story of asan of El Barah. 2. "El Medeeneh el Khara" signifies "the Green City." See theabove note. 3. "The Compassionate" is an epithet here applied to God. 4. See the first note in this series. "Zahr," in Arabic, signifies"a Flower." 5. _On Coats of Mail, and other Armour worn by the Arabs._ TheProphet David is said to have been the first person who manufacturedcoats of mail. and the cause of his applying himself to the art wasthis. "He used to go forth in disguise. and when he found any peoplewho knew him not, he approached them and asked them respecting theconduct of Daood (or David), and they praised him and prayed for him.but one day as he was asking questions respecting himself as usual, Godsent to him an angel in the form of a human being, who said, 'Anexcellent man were Daood if he did not take from the publictreasury:' whereupon the heart of Daood was contracted, and he beggedof God to render him independent: so He made iron soft to him, and itbecame in his hands as thread. and he used to sell a coat of mail forfour thousand , andwith part of this he obtained food for himself, and part he gave inalms, and with part he fed his family." Hence an excellent coat ofmail is often called by the Arabs "Daoodee," _i. e._ "Davidean." Thiskind of armour is worn by some Arabs of the Desert in the present day.but the best specimens, I believe, are mostly found in India. Burckhardtmentions one tribe of Arabs who have about twenty five. another, twohundred. and two others, between thirty and forty. "The dora (properlydira) is," he remarks, "of two sorts, one covering the whole body like along gown from the elbow, over the shoulders, down to the knees: this isthe sirgh: the other, called kembaz, covers the body only to the waist.the arms from the elbows downwards being covered with two pieces ofsteel, fitting into each other, with iron fingers. Thus clad, the Arabcompletes his armour by putting on his head an iron cap (tas), which isbut rarely adorned with feathers. The price of a coat of mail fluctuatesfrom two hundred to fifteen hundred piastres.... Those of the bestquality are capable of resisting a ball." The coat of mail issometimes worn within the ordinary outer tunic. 6. This implies that his parents were dead. 7. _On Public Royal Feasts._ On certain periodical festivals, andon other occasions (as those of the kind here described), it has longbeen, and still is, a custom of Muslim princes to give public feasts toall classes of their subjects, in the palace. El Mareezee quotes acurious account of the feasts which were given on the festival followingRamaan to the inhabitants of Cairo, by the Faimee Khaleefehs. Atthe upper end of a large saloon was placed the sereer (or couch) of themonarch, upon which he sat with the Wezeer on his right. Upon this seatwas placed a round silver table, with various delicacies, of which theyalone ate. Before it, and extending nearly from the seat to the otherextremity of the saloon, was set up a kind of table or platform (sima)of painted wood, resembling a number of benches placed together, tencubits (or about eighteen or nineteen feet) in width. Along the middleof this were arranged twenty one enormous dishes, each containingtwenty one baked sheep, three years old, and fat. together with fowls,chickens, and young pigeons, in number three hundred and fifty of eachkind. all of which were piled together in an oblong form, to the heightof the stature of a man, and enclosed with dry sweetmeat. The spacesbetween these dishes were occupied by nearly five hundred other dishesof earthenware. each of which contained seven fowls, and was filled upwith sweetmeats of various kinds. The table was strewn with flowers.and cakes of bread made of the finest flower were arranged along eachside. There were also two great edifices of sweetmeats, each weighingseventeen hundred weights, which were carried thither by porters withshoulder poles. and one of these was placed at the commencement, and theother at the close, of this sumptuous banquet. When the Khaleefeh andWezeer had taken their seats upon the couch, the officers of state whowere distinguished by neck rings or collars, and the inferiormembers of the court, seated themselves in the order of their respectiveranks. and when they had eaten, they gave place to others. Two suchfeasts, given on the festival after Ramaan and on the "great festival,"cost four thousand deenars, or about two thousand pounds sterling. Twomilitary officers, named Ibn Faiz and Ed Deylemee, distinguishedthemselves at these feasts in a very remarkable manner. Each of themused to eat a baked sheep, and ten fowls dressed with sweetmeats, andten pounds of sweetmeats besides, and was presented with a quantity offood carried away from the feast to his house, together with a large sumof money. One of them had been a prisoner at 'Asalan. and after he hadremained there some time, the person into whose power he had fallenjestingly told him that if he would eat a calf belonging to him, theflesh of which weighed several hundred weights, he would emancipate him.This feat he accomplished, and thus he obtained his liberation.Several cases of a similar kind to those just mentioned are instanced ina late work. One of a man who, as related by Vopiscus, was broughtbefore the Emperor Maximilian , and who devoured a whole calf,and was proceeding to eat up a sheep, but was prevented. Another, of aman who commenced his repast (in the presence of Dr. Boehmen, ofWittenberg,) by eating a raw sheep and a sucking pig, and, by way ofdessert, swallowed sixty pounds of prunes, stones and all. A third, ofan attendant of the menagerie of the Botanical Garden in Paris, who usedto devour all the offals of the Theatre of Comparative Anatomy, and atea dead lion in one day. 8. _On Litters for Travelling._ The kind of litter borne by mulesis generally one resembling the palkee (or palanquin): it is borne byfour of these animals, two before and two behind, or by two only, ormore commonly by two camels, and sometimes by two horses. When borne bycamels, the head of the hindmost of these animals is painfully bentdown, under the vehicle. It is the most comfortable kind of litter. andtwo light persons may travel in it. The name generally given to it is"takhtarawan," or "takht rawan." but the term employed in the passage towhich this note refers is "miaffeh," which is often used as a generalname for a camel litter, and particularly applied to one with a flattop. A very common kind of camel litter, called "musaa," or "emlmusaa," resembles a small square tent, and is chiefly composed of twolong chests, each of which has a high back: these are placed on thecamel in the same manner as a pair of panniers, one on each side. andthe high backs, which are placed outwards, together with a small poleresting on the camel's pack saddle, support the covering which formswhat may be called the tent. This vehicle accommodates two persons. Itis generally open at the front. and may also be opened at the back.Though it appears comfortable, the motion is uneasy. especially when itis placed upon a camel that has been accustomed to carry heavy burdens:but camels of easy pace are generally chosen for bearinglitters. Another kind of litter, called "shibreeyeh," is composed of asmall square platform with an arched covering. This accommodates but oneperson. and is placed on the back of the camel: two saarahs (or squarecamel chests), one on each side of the animal, generally form afoundation for it. The musaa and shibreeyeh (but particularly thelatter) are also called "hodaj." 9. See Note 43 to Chapter iv. 10. See Note 54 to Chapter iv. 11. "Taj el Mulook" signifies "the Crown of the Kings." 12. Lynxes were often employed in the chase in Arabian and otherEastern countries in former times. but I do not know if they are atpresent. See Note 24 to Chapter ii. 13. By this word are meant "oblong, cylindrical, hollow beads:""aabeh" signifying originally "a reed," "cane,"  c. 14. The words "who hath taught men,"  c., are from the ur an, ch.xcvi. v. 5. 15. "'Azeez" and "'Azeezeh" (masculine and feminine) signify"Dear," "Excellent,"  c. 16. The handkerchief is generally oblong, and each of its two endsis embroidered with a border of coloured silks and gold. the other twoedges being plain. 17. My sheykh has remarked in a marginal note, that this sign mayallude to her heart, or to her sighing because she enjoys not the unionshe desires (as expressed immediately after). and that the latter ismore probable, as the action is one common with persons in grief. 18. _On Conversing and Corresponding by means of Signs, Emblems,Metaphors,  c._ Many persons of the instructed classes, and some others,among the Arabs, often take delight, and shew much ingenuity andquickness of apprehension, in conversing and corresponding by means ofsigns, emblems,  c., or in a conventional, metaphorical, language, notunderstood by the vulgar in general, and sometimes not by any except theparties engaged in the intercourse. In some cases, when the mainmetaphor employed is understood, the rest of the conversation becomeseasily intelligible without any previous explanation. and I haveoccasionally succeeded in carrying on a conversation of this kind(though not in cases such as that described in the tale referred to bythis note). but I have more frequently been unsuccessful in attemptingto divine the nature of a topic in which other persons were engaged. Onesimple mode of secret conversation or correspondence is by substitutingcertain letters for other letters.Many of the women are said to be adepts in this art, or science, and toconvey messages, declarations of love,  c., by means of fruits, flowers,and other emblems. The inability of numbers of females in families ofthe middle classes to write or read, as well as the difficulty orimpossibility frequently existing of conveying written letters, may havegiven rise to such modes of communication. Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, inone of her charming letters from the East, has gratified our curiosityby a Turkish love letter of this kind. A specimen of one from anArab, with its answer, may be here added. An Arab lover sent to hismistress a fan, a bunch of flowers, a silk tassel, some sugar candy, anda piece of a chord of a musical instrument. and she returned for answera piece of an aloe plant, three black cumin seeds, and a piece of aplant used in washing. His communication is thus interpreted: Thefan, being called "mirwaah," a word derived from a root which has amongits meanings that of "going to any place in the evening," signified hiswish to pay her an evening visit: the flowers, that the interview shouldbe in her garden: the tassel, being called "shurrabeh," that they shouldhave sharab (or wine): the sugar candy, being termed "sukkarnebat," and "nebat" also signifying "we will pass the night," denotedhis desire to remain in her company until the morning: and the piece ofa chord, that they should be entertained by music. The interpretation ofher answer is as follows: The piece of an aloe plant, which is called"abbarah" (from "abr," which signifies "patience" because it willlive for many months together without water), implied that he must wait:the three black cumin seeds explained to him that the period of delayshould be three nights: and the plant used in washing informed him thatshe should then have gone to the bath, and would meet him. I haveomitted one symbol in the lady's answer, as it conveys an allusion notso consistent with European as with Arab notions of female delicacy.The language of flowers employed by the Turks does not exactly agreewith the system illustrated in the story of 'Azeez and 'Azeezeh. for theformer consists of a collection of words and phrases or sentences whichrhyme with the names of the objects used as the signs. This systemis also employed by the Arabs. but I believe not so commonly as theother.A remarkable faculty is displayed by some Arabs in catching the meaningof secret signs employed in written communications to them. such signsbeing often used in political and other intrigues. The following is acurious instance. The celebrated poet El Mutanebbee, having writtensome verses in dispraise of Kafoor El Ikhsheedee the independentGovernor of Egypt, was obliged to flee, and hide himself in a distanttown. Kafoor was informed of his retreat, and desired his secretary towrite to him a letter promising him pardon, and commanding him toreturn. but told the writer at the same time, that when the poet came hewould punish him. The secretary was a friend of the poet, and, beingobliged to read the letter to the Prince when he had written it, wasperplexed how to convey to El Mutanebbee some indication of the dangerthat awaited him: he could only venture to do so in the exterioraddress. and having written this in the usual form, commencing "Inshaa llah" (If it be the will of God) "this shall arrive,"  c., he put asmall mark of reduplication over the "n" in the first word, which hethus converted into "Inna." the filial vowel being understood. The poetread the letter, and was rejoiced to see a promise of pardon. but onlooking a second time at the address, was surprised to observe the markof reduplication over the "n." Knowing the writer to be his friend, heimmediately suspected a secret meaning, and rightly conceived that thesign conveyed an allusion to a passage in the ur an commencing with theword "Inna," and this he divined to be the following: "Verily themagistrates are deliberating concerning thee, to put thee todeath." Accordingly, he fled to another town. Some authors add,that he wrote a reply, conveying, by a similar sign, to his friend, anallusion to another passage in the ur an: "We will never enter thecountry while they remain therein." It is probable that signs thusemployed were used by many persons to convey allusions to certain words.and such may have been the case in the above mentioned instance: if not,the poet was indeed a wonderful guesser. 19. Perhaps it is unnecessary to explain that the actions heredescribed are those of a dyer, dipping a piece of linen into a red dye,and then wringing it. The shop of the dyer is generally, like most othershops, a small chamber or recess open towards the street. Panscontaining the different dyes are imbedded in its floor. 20. "Ma'ad" is a name generally given to a chamber in which maleguests or visiters are received, having an open front with two or morearches, and looking into the court or garden of the house. Its floor iselevated about ten or more feet above the ground, and the front isusually towards the north, or nearly so. 21. I suppose it to be meant, that these designs were executed in akind of mosaic work. for the pool of the fountain is generallyornamented with black and white marble, and pieces of fine red tile,inlaid in complicated and tasteful patterns. A view and plan of afountain of this kind are inserted in the Introduction to my work on theModern Egyptians. 22. "Balaweh," from the Turkish "balava," is a name given to akind of pastry, which is generally thus prepared: A paste made of fineflour with clarified butter is rolled thin, and laid upon a tray: uponthis paste is then spread a composition of clarified butter and blanchedalmonds (and sometimes walnuts and currants) beaten small. and over thisis put another layer of paste. Eight of these double layers of pastewith the composition above mentioned between them are placed one uponanother, making the whole about an inch thick. It is baked in an oven.cut into lozenge shaped pieces, about three inches long, and two incheswide. and after it is thus cut, some honey or treacle is poured over. 23. See Note 99 to Chapter v. 24. It is a general belief of the Muslims that the wicked will riseto judgment with their faces black. and hence the origin of theimprecation, "May God blacken thy face!" But it is often used to signify"May God disgrace thee!" for a person's face is said to be black when heis in any disgrace. and in the reverse case, it is said to bewhite. 25. "Zardeh" (which is a Persian word) is a name given to ricedressed with honey and saffron. but here it appears to be applied to asweet drink infused with saffron. 26. By the play bone and the ab stick an allusion is conveyed totwo games common among the Arabs. The play bones are used in the samemanner as dice, of which they are probably the origin. and both bear thesame name in the Arabic, in the singular "kaab" or "kaabeh," that is, "acube." Of the game of ab I have given a full account in my work on theModern Egyptians (vol. ii. ch. iv.). I need only mention here, that theab stick is of a flat form, about a span (or eight inches) in length,and two thirds of an inch in breadth, generally formed of a piece of apalm branch. one side of which, being cut flat and smooth, is white. theother, green, or, if not fresh, of a dull yellow colour. Four suchsticks are used in playing the game. 27. The more simple interpretation is this: Idle games are moresuited to thee than affairs of love. 28. El azweenee makes a remark somewhat similar to this at theclose of his account of the date. but the interpretation of the meaningconveyed by the date stone in our text is very far fetched: my sheykh,in a marginal note, gives one perfectly apposite: the date stone iscalled "nawayeh," and more properly "nawah" and "nawa." and the last ofthese words signifies also "distance," "absence,"  c., and is often usedto express the state of one who is far from loving or being a lover: itimplies also, in this case, that, if he slept again, she would cast himoff. 29. The locust fruit, by its dark colour, and the length of time itremains in a state of preservation after it has been plucked, isrendered a fit emblem of a heart long enduring separation from theobject of its love. 30. "Dirhem," I have before mentioned, is the name of a silvercoin: it is also the name of a weight, very nearly equivalent toforty eight English grains. and being here described as of iron, we mustunderstand it in the latter sense. 31. I suppose the iron dirhem to be symbolic of the eye because itis round, and perhaps likewise because the Arabic term for "iron"(namely "adeed") has also the signification of "sharp" or "piercing."in which sense it is often applied to the sight (as in the ur an, ch.l. v. 21). See the next note. 32. From this double oath, it seems to me probable, that, by thecircular form of the dirhem, an allusion was meant to God (as beingwithout beginning or end), and that the matter of which it was composed(from what I have said in the note immediately preceding), as well asits form, conveyed the allusion to the eye. 33. This gentle kneading or pressing of the limbs, which is one ofthe operations performed in the bath, is often practised by the Arabsfor the purpose of inducing sleep. 34. This is a kind of nebeedh. (See Note 22 to Chapter iii.) Thesame fruit is also stewed with meat. It is called in Arabic "'onnab." 35. See Note 18 to Chapter vii. 36. It is seen that 'Azeezeh speaks of herself in the masculinegender in the verses here inserted. but this is in accordance with acommon Arab custom. 37. _On the Ceremony called_ Zikr. Zikrs are very oftenperformed after a death. the merit of the performance being transferredto the soul of the deceased.I have before mentioned these ceremonies (in Note 63 to Chapter iii.).but in a vague manner. and as it is my object in the present work togive such illustrations as will satisfy the general reader, withoutobliging him to refer to other books, I shall here insert an abridgedextract, descriptive of a zikr, from my Account of the Manners andCustoms of the Modern Egyptians.The zikkeers (or performers of the zikr), who were about thirty innumber, sat, cross legged, upon matting extended close to the houses onone side of the street, in the form of an oblong ring. Within thisring, along the middle of the matting, were placed three very large waxcandles. each about four feet high, and stuck in a low candlestick. Mostof the zikkeers were Amedee darweeshes, persons of the lower orders,and meanly dressed: many of them wore green turbans. At one end of thering were four munshids (or singers of religious odes), and with themwas a player on the kind of flute called "nay." I procured a small seatof palm sticks from a coffee shop close by, and, by means of a littlepushing, and the assistance of my servant, obtained a place with themunshids, and sat there to hear a complete act, or "meglis," of thezikr. which act commenced at about three o'clock (or three hours aftersunset), and continued two hours.The performers began by reciting the Fat'ah (or opening chapter of theur an) all together. their sheykh, or chief, first exclaiming,"El Fat'ah!" They then chanted the following words. "O God, bless ourlord Moammad among the former generations. and bless our lord Moammadamong the latter generations. and bless our lord Moammad in every timeand period. and bless our lord Moammad in the highest degree, unto theday of judgment. and bless all the prophets and apostles among theinhabitants of the heavens and of the earth. and may God (whose name beblessed and exalted!) be well pleased with our lords and our masters,those persons of illustrious estimation, Aboo Bekr and 'Omar and 'Osmanand 'Alee, and with all the favourites of God. God is our sufficiency.and excellent is the Guardian! There is no strength nor power but inGod, the High, the Great! O God! O our Lord! O Thou liberal of pardon! OThou most bountiful of the most bountiful! O God! Amen!" They were thensilent for three or four minutes. and again recited the Fat'ah. butsilently. This form of prefacing the zikr is commonly used, by almostall orders of darweeshes in Egypt.The performers now commenced the zikr. Sitting in the manner abovedescribed, they chanted, in slow measure, "La ilaha illa llah" ("Thereis no deity but God") to the following air: (: Lyrics:La i   la   ha illa   l   lah.La i   la   ha i   l   la   l   la   h.La i   la   ha illa   l   lah.)bowing the head and body twice in each repetition of "La ilahailla llah." Thus they continued about a quarter of an hour. and then,for about the same space of time, they repeated the same words to thesame air, but in a quicker measure, and with correspondingly quickermotions. In the meantime, the munshids frequently sang, to the same, ora variation of the same, air, portions of a aeedeh, or of amuweshsha. an ode of a similar nature to the Song of Solomon, generallyalluding to the Prophet as the object of love and praise. and atfrequent intervals, one of them sang out the word "meded," implying aninvocation for spiritual or supernatural aid.The zikkeers, after having performed as above described, next repeatedthe same words to a different air for about the same length of time.first, very slowly. then, quickly. The air was as follows: (: Lyrics:La i   la   ha illa   l   la   h.La i   la   ha illa   l   la   h.La i   la   ha illa   l   lah.)Then they repeated these words again, to the following air, in the samemanner: (: Lyrics:La i   la   ha il   la   l   lah.La i   la   ha il   la   l   lah.)They next rose, and, standing in the same order in which they had beensitting, repeated the same words to another air. After which, stillstanding, they repeated these words in a very deep and hoarse tone.laying the principal emphasis upon the word "La" and the first syllableof the last word "Allah." and uttering it, apparently, with aconsiderable effort: the sound much resembled that which is produced bybeating the rim of a tambourine. Each zikkeer turned his headalternately to the right and left at each repetition of "La ilahailla llah." One of them, a eunuch, at this part of the zikr, was seizedwith an epileptic fit, evidently the result of a high state of religiousexcitement. but nobody seemed surprised at it. for occurrences of thiskind at zikrs are not uncommon. All the performers now seemed muchexcited. repeating their ejaculations with greater rapidity, violentlyturning their heads, and sinking the whole body at the same time: someof them jumping. The eunuch above mentioned again was seized with fitsseveral times. and I generally remarked that this happened after one ofthe munshids had sung a line or two and exerted himself more thanusually to excite his hearers: the singing was, indeed, to my taste,very pleasing. The contrast presented by the vehement and distressingexertions of the performers at the close of the zikr, and their calmgravity and solemnity of manner at the commencement, was particularlystriking. Money was collected during the performance for the munshids.The zikkeers receive no pay. 38. From the last of these verses it appears that the flowers aredescribed as _laid_ upon the tomb (in accordance with the custommentioned in the last paragraph of Note 16 to Chapter i.), and not as_planted_ upon it. though this is frequently done in some countries ofthe East. the monument being filled with mould, and the whole of its topopen. 39. See Note 25 to Chapter v. 40. See Note 35 to Chapter ii. 41. The "rod" (in Arabic "aabeh") was, according to the Egyptianmeasurement, until lately reduced, about twelve English feet and a half. 42. See Note 12 to Chapter iii. 43. It is common (as my sheykh has remarked) to say, of a veryspacious chamber, that a horseman might gallop in it. The playing atgoff by horsemen has been mentioned in a former tale. It was a commonexercise in Egypt as well as Persia and other Eastern countries. 44. "Deleeleh" is an epithet used in modern Arabic as indicative ofartifice, machination, or fraud. It is often employed as a femalenickname. 45. From this point to the end of the story of 'Azeez and 'AzeezehI omit some portions which are tedious, and others which are moreobjectionable. 46. Any one may enter the public bath, but none can go out of it,without paying. 47. The "kaak," commonly called "kak," has been described in Note16 to Chapter i. De Sacy has remarked that our English word "cake" seemsto be from the same origin. 48. _On Oaths._ To explain this passage, I must repeat, with a fewslight additions, some remarks which I have made in a formerpublication. Among a people by whom falsehood, in certain cases,is not only allowed but commended, oaths of different kinds aremore or less binding. In considering this subject, we should alsoremember that oaths may sometimes be expiated. There are someoaths which, I believe, few Muslims would falsely take. such as saying,three times, "By God the Great!" (Wa llahi l Aeem), and the oath uponthe mu af (or copy of the ur an), saying, "By what this contains ofthe word of God!" This latter is rendered more binding by placing asword with the sacred volume. and still more so, by the addition of acake, or piece, of bread, and a handful of salt. But a form of oathwhich is generally yet more to be depended upon is that of saying, "Iimpose upon myself divorcement!" (that is, "the divorce of my wife, ifwhat I say be false"). or, "I impose upon myself interdiction!" whichhas a similar meaning ("My wife be unlawful to me!"). or, "I impose uponmyself a triple divorcement!" which binds a man by the irrevocabledivorce of his wife. If a man use any of these three forms of oathfalsely, his wife, if he have but one, is divorced by the oath itself,if proved to be false, without the absolute necessity of any furtherceremony. and if he have two or more wives, he must, under suchcircumstances, choose one of them to put away.In the case which this note is principally intended to illustrate, thewife of 'Azeez makes him swear by the sword and the ur an in the hopeof inducing him to return to her. and by the oath of divorce, to makethe inducement more strong, and that she might be enabled, in case hedid not fulfil his vow, legally to contract another marriage as soon asshe should have waited the period which the law requires. 49. The verses I have omitted as they are the same (with theexception of some slight variations) as the first, second, third, andfifth, of those commencing at page 185 in this volume. and the contentsof the accompanying paper as being tiresome and in some parts unmeaning. 50. See the first note in the present series. 51. I have substituted "Shah Zeman" (signifying "King of the Age")for Shahraman. the latter being evidently a mistake of a copyist. 52. "Dunya" signifies the "world." 53. "Riwan," which signifies "approbation," "complacency,"  c., isthe name of the Guardian of Paradise. The meaning of this passage is,"Surely this handsome young person is one of the Wildan, or Weleeds,those beautiful youths prepared to wait upon the faithful in Paradise.and he hath escaped thence through the inadvertence of Riwan." The verymeanest in Paradise is promised eighty thousand of these servants,besides seventy two ooreeyehs,  c. 54. A compliment of this kind is generally uttered on letting ashop or house, and on selling an article of dress,  c.. and "God blessthee!" is usually said in reply. In like manner, a merchant sellinggoods to be re sold says, "May God grant thee a profit upon them!" 55. The word thus translated signifies taking a morning draught ofwine, milk, sherbet, or any other beverage. 56. When Zeleekha invited her female friends that they might beholdYoosuf (or Joseph) and excuse her for inclining to him, at the sight ofhim they cut their own hands, and praised God, ejaculating these words,"This is not a mortal,"  c. (ur an, ch. xii. v. 31). 57. To persons more or less above him in rank, the shopkeeper risesand stands, or merely makes a slight motion as if he were about to rise. 58. This is a common invocation, for the protection of a personfrom envy, or the evil eye, founded upon the last chapter but one of theur an, in which the believer is desired to "seek refuge with the Lordof the Daybreak" from various evils, and among these "from the mischiefof the envious." It is very often said to imply admiration of a child,that the mother may not fear. 59. This ejaculation is addressed to God. 60. This alludes to one of the stages of the creation of manexplained in the ur an, ch. xxii. v. 5. 61. The old woman is described as being "full of joy" because,having induced her mistress to answer the letter, she saw a prospect ofcontinuing the correspondence, and so obtaining additional presents. 62. "Es Suha" is an obscure star in the Greater Bear, at whichpeople look to try their powers of sight. It is the star 80, by (Greek:z). 63. My sheykh has remarked in a marginal note on the "Five Elders"or Sheykhs here mentioned, "the known number is the four. namely theKhaleefehs. or the Four Welees (eminent saints), the seyyidEl Bedawee and the seyyid Ed Dasooee and Er Rifa'ee and El Geelanee."The latter four are often mentioned together as being the saintsgenerally most esteemed in the present day and the founders of the fourprincipal orders of Darweeshes. Who, then, can be meant by "the FiveElders" I do not know. but I have retained this number as it occursagain in a variation of the same verses in a subsequent tale, which isalmost exactly the same as that of Taj el Mulook. 64. "Ibn Seena" ("Son of Seena") is the true name of the greatphysician called by us "Avicenna." 65. The gait of Arab ladies is very remarkable: they incline thelower part of the body from side to side as they step, and with thehands raised to the level of the bosom they hold the edges of theirouter covering. Their pace is slow, and they look not about them, butkeep their eyes towards the ground in the direction to which they aregoing. 66. It should be remarked here, that the private room of an Easternprincess is not to be regarded as a Western bed room. In the East, aguest may lay himself down upon a deewan in the presence of another, topass the night, without any infringement of decorum. 67. See the latter paragraph of the first note in the presentseries. 68. See Note 9 to Chapter vii. 69. The doors in Eastern houses generally turn on two wooden pins.one fitting into a hole in the lintel. the other, into a holeimmediately behind the threshold. and the latter is very short. It istherefore often easy to displace a door by raising it a little, whichmay be done by means of a projecting wooden lock. and in many cases,when the door cannot be displaced from its sockets, it may be raisedsufficiently to remove the inner latch from its catch. The doors of theancient temples and tombs in Egypt were formed as above described, withpins, which were often made of bronze. 70. I here read "nimsheh" (also written "nimjeh" and "nimjah" fromthe Persian "neemjah") instead of "amsheh." The latter is described bymy sheykh, in a marginal note, as "a strip of leather divided into two,and tied together and nailed at the upper end to a piece of wood." butthe use of such an instrument in this case would be ridiculous. The nameof "nimsheh" is often given to a royal dagger. 71. As persons are often decapitated in an Eastern palace, a skinis made use of to receive the head and the blood. I believe it to besimilar to the round skin used by travellers to eat upon. which isconverted into a bag by means of a running string round the edge.In concluding the present series of notes, I may state my opinion, thatthe two stories to which they relate are fully worthy of insertion inthis collection, as extending the picture of _Arab_ life and manners,whatever may be thought of their _origin_.Thus commonly pronounced for "Sharrun kan," signifying"an evil hath come into existence." Names of this kind aresometimes given by the Arabs not in dispraise, but as propheticof great achievements."Light of the Place.""Delight of the Age."Mir at ez Zeman."Notes on the Bedouins and Wahabys," 8vo. vol. i. pp. 55and 56.The Dynasty of the Faimee Khaleefehs was founded byEl Mahdee in Western Africa, in the year of the Flight 297. Histhird successor, El Mo'ezz li deeni llah, conquered Egypt inthe year 358, and the seat of his government was transferred toCairo. As they claimed descent from Faimeh, and were of theShiya'ee sect, their possession of the fairest province of theorthodox (or 'Abbasee) Khaleefehs forms a strange episode inthe history of El Islam. Their power was overthrown byala ed Deen, in the year 567. ED.See Note 15 to Chapter ii."El Khia:" Account of the Palaces of the Khaleefehs.Dr. Millengen's Curiosities of Medical Experience, quotedin the Literary Gazette, No. 1043.The art here mentioned was first made known to Europeansby a Frenchman, M. Du Vigneau, in a work entitled "SecretaireTurc, contenant l'Art d'exprimer ses pensees sans se voir, sansse parler, et sans s'ecrire:" Paris, 1688: in 12. Von Hammerhas also given an interesting paper on this subject in the"Mines de l'Orient," No. 1: Vienna, 1809. (Note to Marcel's"Contes du Cheykh El Mohdy," vol. iii. pp. 327 and 328: Paris,1833.)Called "ghasool el azrar." In Delile's Flora Egyptiaca,the name of ghasool is given to the mesembryanthemumnodiflorum, class icosandria, order pentagynia.This name is now given to sherbet.albet el Kumeyt, ch. x. The aloe plant is called"abir," "abr," "ibr," and "abbarah." The second of thesewords signifies "patience." and so does the root of _all_ ofthem: and the last signifies "very patient." The _reason_ ofits having these appellations cannot, of course, be _proved_.See Marcel, _ubi supra_. He states that Von Hammer'svocabulary of flowers and other hieroglyphic objects contains120 articles. and that of Du Vigneau, 179. almost all of theformer being the same as those of the latter.Ch. xxviii. v. 19.37 5: Ch. v. v. 27. This anecdote is from the albetel Kumeyt, ch. viii. (Kafoor was a black eunuch purchased byEl Ikhsheed, the first of the virtually independent dynasty ofthe Ikhsheedeeyeh, which fell before the Faimee Khaleefehs.Kafoor was regent of Egypt for upwards of twenty years, duringthe reigns of his master's two sons. and was actual governorfrom the year of the Flight 355 to 357. ED.)Sometimes, also, it means "May God cause thee toexperience grief!" or "sorrow!" and, used in this sense, it issimilar to the phrase, often occurring in this work, "the worldbecame black before his face."The zikr here described was performed near the tomb of asaint, for whose sake it was celebrated. The ceremony is oftenperformed in a sepulchral mosque, and often in the court, or ina chamber, of a private house.Marginal note by my sheykh.Idem.The "Modern Egyptians."See Note 57 to Chapter iii.As shewn in Note 68 to Chapter iv.