 1. From the close of Chapter iii., the order of the tales in thistranslation (agreeably with the Cairo edition) differs from that whichis followed in the old version. 2. This alludes to the poor man's want of sufficient clothing. for,in the climate of Baghdad, a person who is not very scantily clad is inlittle need of a fire to warm himself. 3. My sheykh has remarked, in a marginal note, that these verseswould be appropriate only from the mouth of a learned man complaining ofthe unprofitableness of his science with respect to procuring him money.but perhaps, in writing this, he was actuated by a somewhat over zealousregard for the honour of his own profession. for, when a poor man hasacquired a little knowledge, his neighbours are apt to flatter him. 4. The "izar" has been described in the second note to Chapter iii. 5. Literally, "the sons of thine uncle." but the meaning is, "thykinsmen." 6. _On Bastinading._ In Arabian, and some other Eastern,countries, it is a common custom, when a person is accused of a crimebefore a magistrate, and denies his guilt, to bastinade him, in order toinduce him to confess. and even witnesses, sometimes, are treated in thesame manner. The beating is usually inflicted with a kurbaj (a thong orwhip of hippopotamus' hide hammered into a round form) or with a stick,and generally on the soles of the feet. For this purpose the feet areconfined by a chain or rope attached at each end to a staff, which isturned round to tighten it. This is called a "falaah." Two persons (oneon each side) strike alternately. and the punishment is often continueduntil the sufferer becomes insensible, and even longer. 7. _Of Sales by Auction._ In many of the soos (market streets, orbazars) in Arabian cities, auctions are held on stated days, once ormore frequently in every week. They are conducted by brokers (dellals),hired either by private persons or by shopkeepers. These brokers carrythe goods up and down the street, announcing the sums bidden, with criesof "araj,"  c.. and the shopkeepers, as well as others, purchase ofthem. 8. I have before mentioned, that this horrid mode of punishing awoman suspected of incontinence is not unfrequently practised among theArabs. Many similar cases have been mentioned to me in Egypt as havingoccurred in that country in the present age. and often the murder iscommitted by the father or a brother of the woman, as her relations areconsidered as more disgraced than the husband by her crime. The presenttale is probably founded on some particular occurrence of this kind. Oneis related as having happened in the reign of the Khaleefeh El Moataid.In this case, some limbs of the murdered woman, in two leathern bags,were brought up from the bed of the Tigris in the net of afisherman. (Such barbarity, however, is contrary to law, as isstated in two former notes. ED.) 9. _Of the Retaliation of Injuries on the Day of Resurrection._The "examination being past, and every one's works weighed in a justbalance, that mutual retaliation will follow according to which everycreature will take vengeance one of another, or have satisfaction madeto him for the injuries which he hath suffered. And since there willthen be no other way of returning like for like, the manner of givingthis satisfaction will be, by taking away a proportionable part of thegood works of him who offered the injury, and adding it to those of himwho suffered it. Which being done, if the angels (by whose ministry thisis to be performed) say, 'Lord, we have given to every one his due, andthere remaineth of this person's good works so much as equalleth theweight of an ant,' God will of his mercy cause it to be doubled untohim, that he may be admitted into Paradise. but if, on the contrary, hisgood works be exhausted, and there remain evil works only, and there beany who have not yet received satisfaction from him, God will order thatan equal weight of their sins be added unto his, that he may be punishedfor them in their stead, and he will be sent to Hell laden withboth." 10. "Reyan" is a common proper name of men, now commonly given toslaves. and the name of the sweet basil in particular (also called"reean") and of sweet smelling plants in general. It also signifies"any favour of God," "the supplies necessary for subsistence," "a son," c. 11. This ejaculation is addressed to God. 12. In the original, "Mir," _vulg._, "Mar." This is the namewhich the Arabs give to Egypt, and which they have also given to itssuccessive capitals, or seats of government, Memphis, Egyptian Babylon,El Fusa, and El ahireh, or Cairo. It is here applied to Cairo, aswill be shewn by the following note, and by the sequel of the tale,though this city was not founded until long after the reign of HaroonEr Rasheed. I may here remark, that I have not found the name of "Mir"applied to Cairo in any Arabic work anterior to the conquest of Egypt bythe 'Osmanlee Turks, which happened in the year of the Flight 923 (A.D.1517). El Fusa retained this appellation in the time of Es Suyooee,who died in the year of the Flight 911, but it ceased to do so beforethe time of El Is aee, who brought down his history to the month ofRamaan, 1032 (A.D. 1623). It is probable, therefore, that the name of"Misr" was transferred to Cairo on the occasion of theconquest by the Turks. I must not assert, that this observation aloneenables us to form a decided judgment as to the period when this workwas composed, as it may be objected that copyists have perhapssubstituted "Mir" for "El ahireh." but I persue the inquiry in thenext note. 13. _On several Evidences of the Period when this Work, in thestates in which it is known to us, was composed or compiled orremodelled._ The tale here presents another anachronism. The title of"Sulan," as a prefix, was first borne by Mamood Ibn Sabuktekeen, inthe year of the Flight 393, just two hundred years after the death ofHaroon Er Rasheed. and there was no Sulan of Egypt until the year ofthe Flight 567 of a little later. the first being the famousala ed Deen, or Saladin.I have now given several data upon which to found a reasonable opinionas to the age when these tales, in the states in which they are knownto us, were composed or compiled or remodelled. First, in Note 55 toin accordance with the distinction of Muslims, Christians, and Jews, bythe colours of their turbans, which mode of distinction originated inthe beginning of the eighth century of the Flight. Secondly, in thepresent note, I have mentioned a fact which affords some reason forinferring that there had been a long series of Sulans in Egypt beforethe age of the writer or writers. In the third place, I must remark,that all the events described in this work are said to have happened inages which, with respect to that of the writer or writers, were_ancient_, being related to an ancient king. from which I think we mayinfer its age to have been at least two centuries posterior to theperiod mentioned in the first of these data. Fourthly, in Note 22 todescribed in many of these tales agrees, in a most important point ofview, with the manners and morals of the Arabs at the commencement ofthe tenth century of the Flight. This I regard as an argument of greatweight, and especially satisfactory as agreeing with the inference justbefore drawn. Fifthly, from what I have stated in the note immediatelypreceding, I incline to the opinion that few of the copies of this worknow known to us, if any, were written until after the conquest of Egyptby the Turks, in the year 1517 of our era. This opinion, it should beremarked, respects especially the _early_ portion of the work, which isthe least likely to have been interpolated, as later parts evidentlyhave been. At the last mentioned period, a native of Cairo (in whichcity I believe the principal portion of the work to have been written)might, if about forty years of age, retain a sufficient recollection ofthe later Memlook Sulans and of their ministers to describe his kingsand courts without the necessity of consulting the writings ofhistorians. deriving his knowledge of early times not from the perusalof any regular record, but only from traditions or from works like thepresent. I should have delayed the insertion of the foregoing remarks,had I not considered it a point of some importance to suggest to thereader, as early as possible, that the manners and customs, and ingeneral even the dresses and dwellings, described in most of the presenttales, are those of a very late period. The lax state of morals whichappears to have prevailed among the Arabs in the time of the writer orwriters probably continued at least until the period when coffee becamea common beverage, about the middle of the tenth century of the Flight(or near the middle of the sixteenth century of our era), and perhapsconsiderably later, until some years after the introduction of tobaccointo the East. The researches of Von Hammer have satisfactorily shewnthat the Thousand and One Nights, in the states in which it is known tous, is based upon a very old work, in Persian. an Arabic translation ofwhich bore a similar, or perhaps the same, title as that which we areconsidering. but I believe the last to be, in its best features, a verylate production. 14. "Shems ed Deen" signifies "the Sun of the Religion." and"Noor ed Deen," "the Light of the Religion." 15. _Customs observed after a Death._ Though the men, in Arabiancountries, make no change in their dress in indication of mourning, theyobserve other customs after the death of a relation. By the term hereused in the original for "mourning" ("'aza," the primary significationof which is "consolation" or "condolence"), an allusion is made toreceiving the visits of condoling friends. On the night immediatelyfollowing the burial, several persons are employed to performrecitations of portions of the ur an,  c. The most remarkable of theseceremonies consists in repeating thrice one thousand times, "There is nodeity but God:" one of the performers having a string of a thousandlarge beads by means of which to count these repetitions. Some personsare also hired to perform a recitation of the whole of the ur an in theafternoon or evening of the first Thursday after the funeral, and oftenon other days. and the merit of these and the former religious acts istransferred to the soul of the deceased. These customs I have fullydescribed in my work on the Modern Egyptians, vol. ii. ch. xv. 16. The island here alluded to is that called "Er Roah," or "TheGarden." 17. The prayer carpet, which resembles a wide hearth rug, is seldomused as a covering for the saddle except when the rider is a person ofthe learned profession. It is probably mentioned here to shew thatNoor ed Deen was an officer of the pen, which was generally the casewith the Wezeers of the Sulans of Egypt. 18. Jerusalem is called in the original, and by the modern Arabs,"El uds," which signifies "Holiness." 19. The Arabic name of Aleppo is "alab." 20. An Arab of rank is seldom seen on foot outside the threshold ofhis own house, unless it be merely to cross the street. 21. The decoration here alluded to consists in furnishing theapartment with costly carpets, handsome cushions, rich coverings for thedeewans, and coloured lamps,  c. 22. This, to some readers, may appear odd: it should therefore beexplained that most articles of Arab clothing are equally suitable toyoung and old, thin and stout. 23. "asan" signifies "Beautiful" or "Handsome." 24. _On Infancy and Education._ I may avoid an unnecessarymultiplication of notes on the same, or nearly the same, subject, byavailing myself of this occasion to insert here the followingillustrations of numerous passages, in the preceding and subsequenttales, relating to infancy and education.In few cases are the Mohammadans so much fettered by the directions oftheir Prophet and other religious institutors as in the rearing andeducating of their children. In matters of the most trivial nature,religious precedents direct their management of the young. One of thefirst duties is, to wrap the new born child in clean white linen, or inlinen of some other colour. but not yellow. After this, some person (nota female) should pronounce the adan in the ear of the infant,because the Prophet did so in the ear of El asan when Fatimeh gavebirth to him. or he should pronounce the adan in the right ear, and theiameh (which is nearly the same) in the left.It was formerly a custom of many of the Arabs, and perhaps is stillamong some, for the father to give a feast to his friends on sevensuccessive days after the birth of a son. but that of a daughter wasobserved with less rejoicing. The general modern custom is, to give anentertainment only on the seventh day, which is called "Yom es Subooa."On this occasion, the mother, having left her bed, receives her guests.the child is exhibited to them. and they give presents of gold or silvercoins, which are generally used to decorate the infant's head dress. Thefather entertains his friends in the evening.On this day, or on the fourteenth, twenty first, twenty eighth, orthirty fifth day after the birth, several religious ceremonies arerequired to be performed. but they are most approved if observed on theseventh day. One of these is the naming. I believe, however, that it isa more common custom to give the name almost immediately after thebirth, or about three hours after. Astrologers were often consulted onthis occasion. but the following directions are given on higherauthority, and are generally observed. "The father should give his sona good name, ... not a name of self praise, as Rasheed , Emeen,  c.... The prophet said, 'The names most approved by God are'Abd Allah and 'Abd Er Raman (Servant of theCompassionate), and such like.' He also said, 'Give my name, but do notdistinguish by my surname of relationship:' but this precept, they say,respects his own life time, ... because he was addressed, 'OAbu l asim!' and now it is not disapproved. but some disapprove ofuniting the name and surname, so as to call a person Mohammad andAbu l asim. And if a son be called by the name of a prophet it is notallowable to abuse or vilify him, unless the person so named be facinghis reproacher, who should say, 'Thou' :and a child named Moammad or Amad should be honoured....The Prophet said, 'There is no people holding a consultation at whichthere is present one whose name is Moammad or Amad, but God blessethall that assembly:' and again he said, 'Whoever nameth his child by myname, or by that of any of my children or my companions, from affectionto me or to them, God (whose name be exalted!) will give him in Paradisewhat eye hath not seen nor ear heard.' And a son should not be namedKing of kings, or Lord of lords. nor should a man take a surname ofrelationship from the name of the eldest of his children. nor take anysuch surname before a child is born to him." The custom of namingchildren after prophets, or after relations or companions of Moammad,is very common. No ceremony is observed on account of the naming.On the same day, however, two practices which I am about to mention areprescribed to be observed. though, as far as my observations andinquiries allow me to judge, they are generally neglected by the modernMuslims. The first of these is a sacrifice. The victim is called'aeeah. It should be a ram or goat. or two such animals should besacrificed for a son, and one for a daughter. This rite is regarded byIbn ambal as absolutely obligatory: he said, "If a father sacrifice notfor his son, and he die, that son will not intercede for himon the day of judgment." The founders of the three other principal sectsregard it in different and less important lights, though Mohammad slewan 'aeeah for himself after his prophetic mission. The person shouldsay, on slaying the victim, "O God, verily this aeeah is a ransomfor my son such a one. its blood for his blood, and its flesh for hisflesh, and its bone for his bone, and its skin for his skin, and itshair for his hair. O God, make it a ransom for my son from Hell fire." Abone of the victim should not be broken. The midwife should receivea leg of it. It should be cooked without previously cutting off anyportion of it. and part of it should be given in alms. After thisshould be performed the other ceremony above alluded to, which is this.It is a sunneh ordinance, incumbent on the father, to shave, or cause tobe shaved, the head of his child, and to give, in alms to the poor, theweight of the hair in gold or silver. This should also be done for aproselyte. On the subsequent occasions of shaving the head of amale child (for the head of the male is frequently shaven), a tuft ofhair is generally left on the crown, and commonly, for several years,another also over the forehead.Circumcision is most approved if performed on the same day: but theobservance of this rite is generally delayed until the child hasattained the age of five or six years, and sometimes several yearslater. I shall therefore delay mentioning the ceremonies with which itis celebrated.The Muslims rightly regard a child as a trust committed by God to itsparents, who, they hold, are responsible for the manner in which theybring it up, and will be examined on this subject on the day ofjudgment. But they further venture to say, that "the first who will layhold of a man on the day of judgment will be his wife and children, whowill present themselvesbefore God, and say, 'O our Lord, take for us our due from him. for hetaught us not that of which we were ignorant, and he fed us withforbidden food, and we knew not:' and their due will be taken fromhim." By this is meant, that a certain proportion of the good workswhich the man may have done, and his children and wife neglected, willbe set down to their account. or that a similar proportion of their evilworks will be transferred to _his_ account.The mother is enjoined by the law to give suck to her child two fullyears, unless she have her husband's consent to shorten the period, orto employ another nurse. "For suckling the child, a virtuous woman, whoeateth only what is lawful, should be chosen. for the unlawfulwill manifest its evil in the child: as the Prophet ... said, 'Givingsuck altereth the tempers.' But it is recommended by the sunneh that themother herself suckle the child. for it is said in a tradition, 'Thereis nothing better for a child than its mother's milk.' 'If thou wouldsttry,' it is added,'whether a child be of an ingenuous disposition in itsinfancy, or not, order a woman who is not its mother to suckle it afterits mother has done so. and if it drink of the milk of the woman who isnot its mother, it is not of an ingenuous disposition.'"Children, being regarded by Muslim parents as enviable blessings, are,to them, objects of the most anxious solicitude. To guard them from thesupposed influence of the envious or evil eye, they have recourse tovarious expedients. When they are taken abroad, they are usually clad inthe most slovenly manner, and left unwashed, or even purposely smearedwith dirt. and as a further precaution, a fantastic cap is often putupon the child's head, or its head dress is decorated with one or morecoins, a feather, a gay tassel, or a written charm or two sewed up inleather or encased in gold or silver, or some other appendage to attractthe eye, that so the infant itself may pass unnoticed. If a personexpress his admiration of another's child otherwise than by some piousejaculation, as, for instance, by praising its Creator (with theexclamation of "Subana llah!" or, "Ma shaa llah!"  c.) or invoking ablessing on the Prophet, he fills the mind of the parent withapprehension. and recourse is had to some superstitious ceremony tocounteract the dreaded influence of his envious glance. The children ofthe poor are less exposed to this imaginary danger from theirunattractive appearance: they generally have little clothing, or nonewhatever, and are extremely dirty. It is partly with the view ofprotecting them from the evil eye, that those of the rich are so longconfined to the areem: there they are petted and pampered for severalyears. at least until they are of age to go to school. but most of themare instructed at home.The children of the Muslims are taught to shew to their fathers a degreeof respect which might be deemed incompatible with the existence of atender mutual affection. but I believe that this is not the case. Thechild greets the father in the morning by kissing his hand, and thenusually stands before him in a respectful attitude, with the left handcovered by the right, to receive any order or to await his permission todepart. but after the respectful kiss, is often taken on the lap. Afterthe period of infancy, the well bred son seldom sits in the presence ofhis father. but during that period he is generally allowed muchfamiliarity. A Syrian merchant, who was one of my near neighbours inCairo, had a child of exquisite beauty, commonly supposed to be hisdaughter, whom, though he was a most bigoted Muslim, he daily took withhim from his private house to his shop. The child followed him, seatedupon an ass, before a black slave. and, until about six years old, wasdressed like most young ladies, but without a face veil. The father thenthinking that the appearance of taking about with him a daughter of thatage was scandalous, dressed his pet as a boy, and told his friends thatthe female attire had been employed as a protection against the evileye. girls being less coveted than boys. This indeed is sometimes done.and it is possible that such might have been the case in this instance.but I was led to believe that it was not so. A year after, I leftCairo: while I remained there, I continued to see the child pass myhouse as before. but always in boy's clothing.It is not surprising that the natives of Arabian countries, where a verytrifling expense is required to rear the young, should be generallydesirous of a numerous offspring. A motive of self interest conducesforcibly to cherish this feeling in a wife, for she is commonly esteemedby her husband in proportion to her fruitfulness. and a man is seldomwilling to divorce a wife, or to sell a slave, who has borne him achild. A similar feeling also induces in both parents a desire to obtainoffspring, and renders them at the same time resigned to the loss ofsuch of their children as die in tender age. This feeling arises fromtheir belief of certain services, of greater moment than the richestblessings this world can bestow, which children who die in infancy areto render to their parents. The Prophet is related to have said, "Theinfant children shall assemble at the scene of judgmenton the day of the general resurrection, when all creatures shall appearfor the reckoning, and it will be said to the angels, 'Go ye with theseinto Paradise:' and they will halt at the gate of Paradise, and it willbe said to them, 'Welcome to the offspring of the Muslims! enter yeParadise: there is no reckoning to be made with you:' and they willreply, 'Yea, and our fathers and our mothers:' but the guardians ofParadise will say, 'Verily your fathers and your mothers are not withyou because they have committed faults and sins for which they must bereckoned with and inquired of.' Then they will shriek and cry at thegate of Paradise with a great cry. and God (whose name be exalted!) andwho is all knowing respecting them) will say, 'What is this cry?' Itwill be answered, 'O our Lord, the children of the Muslims say, We willnot enter Paradise but with our fathers and our mothers.' Whereupon God(whose name be exalted!) will say 'Pass among them all, and take thehands of your parents, and introduce them into Paradise.'" The childrenwho are to have this power are such as are born of believers, and diewithout having attained to the knowledge of sin. and according to onetradition, one such child will introduce his parents into Paradise.(Such infants only are to enter Paradise. for, of the children who diein infancy, those of believers alone are they who would believe if theygrew to years of discretion.) On the same authority it is said, "When achild of the servant dies, God (whose name be exalted!) saithto the angels, 'Have ye taken the child of my servant?' They answer,'Yea.' He saith, 'Have ye taken the child of his heart?' They reply,'Yea.' He asketh them, 'What did my servant say?' They answer, 'Hepraised thee, and said, Verily to God we belong, and verily unto Him wereturn!' Then God will say, 'Build for my servant a house in Paradise,and name it the House of Praise.'" To these traditions, which I findrelated as proofs of the advantages of marriage, the following anecdote,which is of a similar nature, is added. A certain man, who would nottake a wife, awoke one day from his sleep, and demanded to be married,saying, as his reason, "I dreamt that the resurrection had taken place,and that I was among the beings collected at the scene of judgment, butwas suffering a thirst that stopped up the passage of my stomach. andlo, there were youths passing through the assembly, having in theirhands ewers of silver, and cups of gold, and giving drink to one personafter another. so I stretched forth my hand to one of them, and said,'Give me to drink. for thirst overpowereth me:' but they answered, 'Thouhast no child among us: we give drink only to our fathers.' I askedthem, 'Who are ye?' They replied, 'We are the deceased infant childrenof the Muslims.'" Especial rewards in heaven are promised tomothers. "When a woman conceives by her husband," said the Prophet, "sheis called in heaven a martyr (_i.e._ she is ranked as a martyr indignity). and her labour in child bed, and her care for her children,protect her from Hell fire.'""When the child begins to speak, the father should teach him first thekelimeh , 'There is no deity but God: (Moammadis God's apostle:)' he should dictate this to him seven times. Then heshould instruct him to say, 'Wherefore, exalted be God, the King, theTruth! There is no deity but He, the Lord of the honourablethrone.' and theclosing words of the ashr, 'He is God, beside whom there is no deity,the King, the Holy,'"  c.As soon as a son is old enough, his father should teach him the mostimportant rules of decent behaviour: placing some food before him, heshould order him to take it with the right hand (the left being employedfor unclean purposes), and to say, on commencing, "In the name of God."to eat what is next to him, and not to hurry, nor spill any of the foodupon his person or dress. He should teach him that it is disgusting toeat much. He should particularly condemn to him the love of gold andsilver, and caution him against covetousness as he would againstserpents and scorpions. and forbid his spitting in an assembly, andcommitting any similar breach of good manners, talking much, turning hisback upon another, standing in an indolent attitude, and speaking ill ofany person to another. He should keep him from bad companions, teach himthe ur an and all requisite divine and prophetic ordinances, andinstruct him in the arts of swimming and archery, and in some virtuoustrade. for trade is a security from poverty. He should also command himto endure patiently the chastisements of his teacher. In one traditionit is said, "When a boy attains the age of six years he should bedisciplined. and when he attains to nine years he should be put in aseparate bed. and when he attains to ten years he should be beaten forprayer:" in another tradition, "Order your children to prayat seven it at ten, and put themin separate beds."Circumcision, which has before been mentioned, is generally performedbefore the boy is submitted to the instruction of the schoolmaster.Previously to the performance of this rite, he is, if belonging to thehigher or middle rank of society, usually paraded about theneighbourhood of his parents' dwelling, gaily attired, chiefly withfemale habits and ornaments, but with a boy's turban on his head,mounted on a horse, preceded by musicians, and followed by a group ofhis female relations and friends. This ceremony is observed by the greatwith much pomp and with sumptuous feasts. El Jabartee mentions a fetecelebrated on the occasion of the circumcision of a son of the aee ofCairo, in the year of the Flight 1179 (A.D. 1766), when the grandees andchief merchants and 'ulama of the city sent him such abundance ofpresents that the magazines of his mansion were filled with rice andbutter and honey and sugar. the great hall, with coffee. and the middleof the court, with firewood: the public were amused for many days byplayers and performers of various kinds. and when the youth was paradedthrough the streets he was attended by numerous memlooks with theirrichly caparisoned horses and splendid arms and armour and militaryband, and by a number of other youths who, from compliment to him, werecircumcised afterwards with him. This latter custom is usual on suchoccasions. and so also is the sending of presents, such as those abovementioned, by friends, acquaintances, and tradespeople.' At a fete ofthis kind, when the Khaleefeh El Mutedir circumcised five of his sons,the money that was scattered in presents amounted to six hundredthousand pieces of gold, or about 300,000. Many orphans were alsocircumcised on the same day, and were presented with clothes and piecesof gold. The Khaleefeh above mentioned was famous for hismagnificence, a proof of which I have given in a former note. At themore approved entertainments which are given in celebration of acircumcision, a recital of the whole of the ur an, or a zikr, isperformed: at some others, male or female public dancers perform in thecourt of the house, or in the street before the door.Few of the children of the Arabs receive much instruction in literature,and still fewer are taught even the rudiments of any of the highersciences. but there are numerous schools in their towns, and one atleast in almost every moderately large village. The former are mostlyattached to mosques and other public buildings, and, together with thosebuildings, endowed by princes or other men of rank, or wealthytradesmen. In these, the children are instructed either gratis or for avery trifling weekly payment, which all parents, except those inindigent circumstances, can easily afford. The schoolmaster generallyteaches nothing more than to read, and to recite by heart the whole ofthe ur an. After committing to memory the first chapter of the sacredvolume, the boy learns the rest in the inverse order of theirarrangement, as they generally decrease in length. Writing andarithmetic are usually taught by another master. and grammar, rhetoric,versification, logic, the interpretation of the ur an, and the wholesystem of religion and law, with all other knowledge deemed useful,which seldom includes the mere elements of mathematics, are attained bystudying at a collegiate mosque, and at no expense. for the professorsreceive no pay either from the students, who are mostly of the poorerclasses, or from the funds of the mosque.The wealthy often employ for their sons a private tutor. and, when hehas taught them to read, and to recite the ur an, engage for them awriting master, and then send them to the college. But among this class,polite literature is more considered than any other branch of knowledge,after religion. Such an acquaintance with the works of some of theirfavourite poets as enables a man to quote them occasionally in society,is regarded by the Arabs as essential to a son who is to mix in genteelcompany. and to this acquirement is often added some skill in the art ofversification, which is rendered peculiarly easy by the copiousness ofthe Arabic language, and by its system of inflection. Thesecharacteristics of their noble tongue (which are remarkably exhibited bythe custom, common among the Arabs, of preserving the same rhymethroughout a whole poem), while on the one hand they have given anadmirable freedom to the compositions of men of true poetic genius, haveon the other hand mainly contributed to the degradation of Arabicpoetry. To an Arab of some little learning it is almost as easy to speakin verse as in prose. and hence he often intersperses his prosewritings, and not unfrequently his conversation, with indifferentverses, of which the chief merit often consists in puns, or in aningenious use of several words nearly the same in sound, but differingin sense. To a reader unacquainted with the Arabic language it isnecessary to explain this custom. otherwise he would imagine that theauthor of the present work is merely indulging in a dramatic licenceinconsistent with a true delineation of manners, when he makes a personsuddenly change the style of his speech from prose to verse, and thenrevert to the former.One more duty of a father to a son I should here mention: it is, toprocure for him a wife as soon as he has arrived at a proper age. Thisage is decided by some to be twenty years. though many young men marryat an earlier period. It is said, "When a son has attained the age oftwenty years, his father, if able, should marry him, and then take hishand, and say, 'I have disciplined thee, and taught thee, and marriedthee: I now seek refuge with God from thy mischief in the present worldand the next.'" To enforce this duty, the following tradition is urged:"When a son attains to the age of puberty, and his father does not marryhim, and yet is able to do so, if the youth commit an improper act inconsequence, the sin of it is between the two," or, as in anotherreport, "on the father." The same is held to be the case withrespect to a daughter who has attained the age of twelve years.The female children of the Arabs are seldom taught even to read. Thoughthey are admissible at the daily schools in which the boys areinstructed, very few parents allow them the benefit of this privilege.preferring, if they give them any instruction of a literary kind, toemploy a sheykhah (or learned woman) to teach them at home. Sheinstructs them in the forms of prayer, and teaches them to repeat byheart a few chapters of the ur an. very rarely the whole book. Parentsare indeed recommended to withhold from their daughters some portions ofthe ur an. to "teach them the Soorat en Noor , andkeep from them the Soorat Yoosuf . on account of the storyof Zeleekha and Yoosuf in the latter, and the prohibitions and threatsand mention of punishments contained in the former."Needlework is not so rarely, but yet not generally, taught to Arabgirls: the spindle frequently employs those of the poorer classes. andsome of them learn to weave. The daughters of persons of the middle andhigher ranks are often instructed in the art of embroidery, and in otherornamental work, which are taught in schools and in private houses.Singing, and playing upon the lute, which were formerly not uncommonfemale accomplishments among the wealthy Arabs, are now almostexclusively confined, like dancing, to professional performers and a fewof the slaves in the areems of the great: it is very seldom now thatany musical instrument is seen in the hand of an Arab lady, except akind of drum called darabukkeh, and a ar (or tambourine), which arefound in many areems, and are beaten with the fingers. Some care,however, is bestowed by the ladies in teaching their daughters what theyconsider an elegant gait and carriage, as well as various alluring andvoluptuous arts with which to increase the attachment of their futurehusbands. 25. _Water wheels._ The water wheels here mentioned are machinescommonly used for the purpose of irrigating fields and gardens. They aregenerally turned by a pair of cows or bulls. They raise the water from ariver or well in a series of earthen pots attached to cords which passover a vertical wheel, and pour it into a trough, from which it flows innarrow channels through the space of ground to be irrigated. A coggedvertical wheel is attached to the same axis as the former. and this, andconsequently the other also, are turned by means of a larger,horizontal, cogged wheel. The ground is divided into hollow squares, orfurrows, into each of which in succession the water is admitted. 26. "Bedr ed Deen" signifies "the Full Moon of the Religion." 27. I have here omitted the name of Shems ed Deen, and his office.as asan's knowledge of them would render the sequel of the story tooimprobable even to an Arab. 28. In the original, this paper is here said to have been writtenby asan in accordance with the dictation of his father. but afterwardsit is said to have been written by the latter. and this is moreconsistent with the rest of the tale. 29. Papers of importance are often wrapped in waxed cloth topreserve them from wet, which would efface the writing, as the Arab inkis chiefly composed of smoke black and gum and water. 30. In the original, the cap is not here mentioned. but it isafterwards. 31. This paragraph and the verses interspersed in it are translatedfrom the Calcutta edition of the first two hundred nights. 32. The poet here alluded to is El Mutanebbee. 33. It is a common custom of Eastern kings and governors to availthemselves of any pretext for seizing upon the property of a deceasedofficer who has accumulated much wealth. 34. It is implied that he was sitting at the door, or in the court,of his house. 35. His taking a copy is mentioned afterwards in the original. butnot in this place. 36. I have designated by the appellation of "dye women" (fromwant of a better) those females who are employed to apply the enna,which imparts a deep orange red dye, to the nails or tips of thefingers, the palms of the hands, the soles of the feet,  c. Some Arabladies, especially on such an occasion as that here described, areornamented with this dye in a more fanciful manner. The woman whoapplies it is called in Arabic "munaisheh." 37. The chief office of the tire woman (in Arabic, "mashiah") isto comb and plait the hair. She attends the ladies in the bath. andhence is also called "bellaneh." 38. A "maabah" is a bench of stone or brick, generally betweentwo and three feet in height, and about the same in width, built againstthe front of a shop, and sometimes along the front of a private house. 39. _On Marriage._ Previously to the perusal of the firstdescription of a nuptial fete that occurs in this work, the reader mayperhaps desire some introductory information, which I shall hereendeavour to convey in such a manner as to make the present note serveto illustrate many future allusions in these pages, and not merely theforegoing tale.Marriage is regarded by the Muslims in general as a positive duty. andto neglect it, without a sufficient excuse, subjects a man to severereproach. "When a servant ," said the Prophet, "marries, verilyhe perfects half his religion." He once asked a man, "Art thoumarried?" The man answered, "No." "And art thou," said he, "sound andhealthy?" The answer was, "Yes." "Then," said Moammad, "thou art one ofthe brothers of the devils. for the most wicked among you are theunmarried. and the most vile among your dead are the unmarried. moreoverthe married are those who are acquitted of filthy conversation. and byHim in whose hand is my soul, the devil hath not a weapon more effectiveagainst the virtuous, both men and women, than the neglect ofmarriage." Some remarks on this subject, and on the advantages ofmarriage, have been made in a preceding note on infancy and education.The number of wives whom a Muslim may have at the same time is four. Hemay marry free women, or take concubine slaves, or have of both theseclasses. It is the opinion of most persons, I believe, among the morestrictly religious, that a man may not have more than four women,whether they be wives alone, or concubine slaves alone, or of bothclasses together. but the practice of some of the Companions of theProphet, who cannot be accused of violating his precepts, affords astrong argument to the contrary. 'Alee, it is said, "was the most devoutof the Companions. but he had four wives and seventeen concubinesbesides, and married, after Faimeh (may God be well pleased with her!),among all that he married and divorced, more than two hundred women: andsometimes he included four wives in one contract, and sometimes divorcedfour at one time, taking other four in their stead." This mayperhaps be an exaggerated statement: but it is certain that the customof keeping an unlimited number of concubines was common among wealthyMuslims in the first century of the Mohammadan era, and has socontinued. The famous author of the work above quoted urges the exampleof Solomon to prove that the possession of numerous concubines is notinconsistent with piety and good morals. not considering that God madebut one wife for Adam.It has been mentioned in the first of the notes to this work, that aMuslim may divorce his wife twice, and each time take her back. This hemay do, even against her wish, during a fixed period, which cannotextend beyond three months, unless she be _enceinte_, in which lattercase she must wait until the birth of her child before she will be atliberty to contract a new marriage. During this period the husband isobliged to maintain her. If he divorce her a third time, or by a triplesentence, he cannot take her again unless with her own consent, and by anew contract, and after another marriage has been consummated betweenher and another husband, and this husband also has divorced her.It is not a common custom, especially among the middle ranks, for anArab to have more than one wife at the same time. but there are few ofmiddle age who have not had several different wives at differentperiods, tempted to change by the facility of divorce. The case of 'Aleehas been mentioned above. Mugheyreh Ibn Sheabeh married eighty women inthe course of his life. and several more remarkable instances ofthe love of change are recorded by Arab writers: the most extraordinarycase of this kind that I have met with was that of MoammadIbn E eiyib, the Dyer, of Baghdad, who died in the year of the Flight423, aged eighty five years. of whom it is related, on most respectableauthority, that he married more than nine hundred women! Supposing,therefore, that he married his first wife when he was fifteen years ofage, he must have had, on the average, nearly thirteen wives _perannum_. The women, in general, cannot of course marry so many successivehusbands, not only because a woman cannot have more than one husband ata time, but also because she cannot divorce her husband. There havebeen, however, many instances of Arab women who have married asurprising number of men in rapid succession. Among these may bementioned Umm Kharijeh, who gave occasion to a proverb on this subject.This woman, who was of the tribe of Bejeeleh, in El Yemen, marriedupwards of forty husbands. and her son Kharijeh knew not who was hisfather. She used to contract a marriage in the quickest possible manner:a man saying to her, "Khibun" (betrothal), she replied, "Nik un"(marriage), and thus became his lawful wife. She had a very numerousprogeny. several tribes originating from her.For the choice of a wife, a man generally relies on his mother, or someother near female relation, or a professional female betrother (who iscalled "khaibeh"). for there are many women who perform this office forhire. The law allows him to see the face of the female whom he proposesto marry, previously to his making the contract. but in the present daythis liberty is seldom obtained, except among the lower orders. Unlessin this case, a man is not allowed to see unveiled any woman but his ownwife or slave, and those women to whom the law prohibits his unitinghimself in marriage: nay, according to some, he is not allowed to "see"his own niece unveiled, though he may not marry her. It should be added,that a slave may lawfully see the face of his own mistress. but thisprivilege is seldom granted in the present day to any slave but aeunuch. An infringement of the law above mentioned is held to beextremely sinful in both parties: "The curse of God," said the Prophet,"is on the seer and the seen:" yet it is very often disregarded in thecase of women of the lower orders.A man is forbidden, by the ur an and the Sunneh, to marry hismother, or other ascendant. daughter, or other descendant. his sister,or half sister. the sister of his father or mother or other ascendant.his niece, or any of her descendants. his foster mother who has suckledhim five times in the course of the first two years, or a woman relatedto him by milk in any of the degrees which would preclude his marriagewith her if she were similarly related to him by consanguinity. themother of his wife, even if he has not consummated his marriage withthis wife. the daughter of his wife, if he has consummated his marriagewith the latter (but if he has not done so, and this wife is divorcedfrom him, or dead, he may marry her daughter). his father's wife, andhis son's wife. and to have at the same time two wives who are sisters,or aunt and niece: he is forbidden also to marry his unemancipatedslave, or another man's slave if he has already a free wife. and tomarry any woman but one of his own faith, or a Christian, or a Jewess. AMohammadan woman, however, may only marry a man of her own faith. Anunlawful intercourse with any woman prevents a man from marrying any ofher relations who would be forbidden to him if she were his wife.The reader has already seen that a cousin (the daughter of a paternaluncle) is often chosen as a wife, on account of the tie of blood, whichis likely to attach her more strongly to her husband, or on account ofan affection conceived in early years. Parity of rank is generally muchregarded. and a man is often unable to obtain as his wife the daughterof one of a different profession or trade, unless an inferior. or ayounger daughter when an elder remains unmarried. A girl is oftenmarried at the age of twelve years, and sometimes at ten, or even nine:the usual period is between twelve and sixteen years. At the age ofthirteen or fourteen she may be a mother. The young men marry a fewyears later.The most important requisite in a wife is religion. The Prophet said, "Avirtuous wife is better than the world and all that it contains." "Avirtuous wife," said Luman, "is like a crown on the head of a king. anda wicked wife is like a heavy burden on the back of an old man." Amongthe other chief requisites are agreeableness of temper, and beauty ofform (undiminished by any defect or irregularity of features ormembers), moderation in the amount of dowry required, and good birth. Itis said, "if thou marry not a virgin, marry adivorced woman, and not a widow. for the divorced woman will respect thywords when thou sayest, 'If there were any good in thee thou hadst notbeen divorced.' whereas the widow will say, 'May God have mercy on sucha one! he hath left me to one unsuited to me.'" But according to anotherselfish maxim, the woman most to be avoided is she who is divorced froma man by whom she has had a child. for her heart is with him, and she isan enemy to the man who marries her after. Modesty is a requisiteupon which too much stress cannot be laid. but this, to an Englishreader, requires some explanation. 'Alee asked his wife Faimeh, "Who isthe best of women?" She answered, "She who sees not men, and whom theysee not." Modesty, therefore, in the opinion of the Muslims, ismost eminently shown by a woman's concealing her person, and restrainingher eyes, from men. "The best rank of men ," said theProphet, "is the front. and the best rank of women is the rear:"that is, those most distant from the men: but better than even these arethe women who pray at home. Fruitfulness is also a desirablequalification to be considered in the choice of a wife: "it may be knownin maidens," says the Prophet, "from their relations. because, generallyspeaking, kindred are similar in disposition,  c." Lastly,contentment is to be enumerated among the requisites. It is said, on thesame authority, "Verily the best of women are those that are mostcontent with little." To obtain a contented and submissive wife,many men make their selection from among the classes inferior to them inrank. Others, with a similar view, prefer a concubine slave in the placeof a wife.The consent of a girl not arrived at the age of puberty is not required:her father, or, if he is dead, her nearest adult male relation, or aguardian appointed by will or by the aee, acts as her wekeel, ordeputy, to effect the marriage contract for her. If of age, she appointsher own deputy. A dowry is required to legalize the marriage. and theleast dowry allowed by the law is ten dirhems, or drachms of silver.about five shillings of our money. Moammad married certain of his wivesfor a dowry of ten dirhems and the household necessaries, which were ahandmill to grind the corn, a water jar, and a pillow of skin or leatherstuffed with the fibres of the palm tree, which are called "leef:" butsome he married for a dowry of five hundred dirhems. With theincrease of wealth and luxury, dowries have increased in amount. but, toour ideas, they are still trifling. a sum equivalent to about twentypounds sterling being a common dowry among Arabs of the middle classesfor a virgin, and half or a third or quarter of that sum for a divorcedwoman or a widow. Two thirds of the sum is usually paid before makingthe contract, and the remaining portion held in reserve to be paid tothe woman in case of her divorce or in case of the husband's death. Thefather or guardian of a girl under age receives the former portion ofher dowry. but it is considered as her property, and he generallyexpends it, with an additional sum from his own purse, in the purchaseof necessary furniture, dress,  c., for her, which the husband can nevertake from her against her own wish.The marriage contract is generally, in the present day, merely verbal.but sometimes a certificate is written, and sealed by the aee. Themost approved or propitious period for this act is the month of Showwal:the most unpropitious, Moarram. The only persons whose presence isrequired to perform it are the bridegroom (or his deputy), the bride'sdeputy (who is the betrother), two male witnesses, if such can be easilyprocured, and the aee or a schoolmaster or some other person to recitea khubeh, which consists of a few words in praise of God, a form ofblessing on the Prophet, and some passages of the ur an, respectingmarriage. They all recite the Fat'ah (or opening chapter of theur an), after which the bridegroom pays the money. The latter and thebride's deputy then seat themselves on the ground, face to face, andgrasp each other's right hand, raising the thumbs, and pressing themagainst each other. Previously to the khubeh, the person who recitesthis formula places a handkerchief over the two joined hands. and afterthe khubeh he dictates to the two contracting parties what they are tosay. The betrother generally uses the following or a similar form ofwords: "I betroth to thee my daughtersuch a onefor a dowry of such an amount." The bridegroom answers, "I accept fromthee her betrothal to myself." This is all that is absolutely necessary.but the address and reply are usually repeated a second and third time,and are often expressed in fuller forms of words. The contract isconcluded with the recital of the Fat'ah by all persons present.This betrothal, or marriage contract, is often performed several yearsbefore the consummation, when the two parties are yet children. orduring the infancy of the girl. but generally not more than about eightor ten days before the former event. The household furniture and dressprepared for the bride are sent by her family to the bridegroom's house,usually conveyed by a train of camels, two or three or more days beforeshe is conducted thither.The feasts and processions which are now to be mentioned are onlyobserved in the case of a virgin bride. a widow or divorced woman beingremarried in a private manner. I describe them chiefly in accordancewith the usages of Cairo, which appear to me most agreeable, in general,with the descriptions and allusions in the present work. The periodmost commonly approved for the consummation of marriage is the eve ofFriday, or that of Monday. Previously to this event, the bridegroom onceor twice or more frequently gives a feast to his friends. and forseveral nights, his house and the houses of his near neighbours areusually illuminated by numerous clusters of lamps, or by lanterns,suspended in front of them. some, to cords drawn across the street. Tothese or other cords are also suspended small flags, or square pieces ofsilk, each of two different colours, generally red and green. Some saythat the feast or feasts should be given on the occasion of thecontract. others, on the consummation. others, again, on both theseoccasions. The usual custom of the people of Cairo is to give afeast on the night immediately preceding that of the consummation, andanother on the latter night. but some commence their feasts earlier.Respecting marriage feasts, the Prophet said, "The first day's feast isan incumbent duty. and the second day's, a sunneh ordinance. and thethird day's, for ostentation and notoriety:" and he forbade eating atthe feast of the ostentatious. It is a positive duty to accept aninvitation to a marriage feast or other lawful entertainment. but theguest is not obliged to eat. The persons invited, and all intimatefriends, generally send presents of provisions of some kind a day or twobefore. The Prophet taught that marriage feasts should be frugal: thebest that _he_ gave was with one goat. He approved ofdemonstrations of joy at the celebration of a marriage with songs, and,according to one tradition, by the beating of deffs (or tambourines).but in another tradition the latter practice is condemned. Thepreferable mode of entertaining the guests is by the performance of azikr.The bride is conducted to the bridegroom's house in the afternoonimmediately preceding the night of consummation. On the day nextpreceding that on which she is conducted thither, she goes to the publicbath, accompanied by a number of her female relations and friends. Theprocession generally pursues a circuitous route, for the sake of greaterdisplay. and on leaving the house, turns to the right. In Cairo, thebride walks under a canopy of silk borne by four men, with one of hernear female relations on each side of her. Young unmarried girls walkbefore her. these are preceded by the married ladies. and the processionis headed and closed by a few musicians with drums and hautboys. Thebride wears a kind of pasteboard crown, or cap. and is completely veiledfrom the view of spectators by a Kashmeer shawl placed over her crownand whole person. but some handsome ornaments of the head are attachedexternally. The other women are dressed in the best of theirwalking attire. In the case, however, of a bride of high rank, or ofwealth, and often in the case of one belonging to a family of the middleclass, the ladies ride upon high saddled asses, without music or canopy.and the bride is only distinguished by a Kashmeer shawl instead of theusual black silk covering. one or more eunuchs sometimes riding at thehead. In the bath, after the ordinary operations of washing,  c., afeast is made, and the party are often entertained by female singers.Having returned in the same manner to her home, the bride's friendsthere partake of a similar entertainment with her. Her hands and feetare then stained with enna, and her eyes ornamented with kol. and herfriends give her small presents of money, and take their leave. "It is asunneh ordinance that the bride wash her feet in a clean vessel, andsprinkle the water in the corners of the chamber, that a blessing mayresult from this. She should also brighten her face, and put on the bestof her apparel, and adorn her eyes with kol, and stain (her hands andfeet) with enna . and she should abstain, duringthe first week, from eating anything that contains mustard, and fromvinegar, and sour apples."The bride is conducted to the house of the bridegroom (on the followingday) in the same manner as to the bath, or with more pomp. In Cairo, thebridal processions of persons of very high rank are conducted withsingular display. The train is usually headed by buffoons and musicians,and a water carrier loaded with a goat's skin filled with sand andwater, of very great weight, which is often borne for many hours before,as well as during, the procession, merely to amuse the spectators bythis feat of strength. Then follow (interrupted by groups of male orfemale dancers, jugglers,  c.) numerous decorated open waggons, or cars,each of which contains several members of some particular trade or artengaged in their ordinary occupations, or one such person withattendants: in one, for instance, a ahwejee (or ahvejee), with hisassistants and pots and cups and fire, making coffee for thespectators: in a second, makers of sweetmeats: in a third, makers ofpancakes (faeerehs): in a fourth, silk lace manufacturers: in a fifth,a silk weaver, with his loom: in a sixth, tinners of copper vessels, attheir work: in a seventh, white washers, whitening over and over again awall: in short, almost every manufacture,  c., has its representativesin a different waggon. El Jabartee describes a procession of this kindin which there were upwards of seventy parties of different trades andarts, each party in a separate waggon, besides buffoons, wrestlers,dancers, and others. followed by various officers, the eunuchs of thebride's family, ladies of the areem with their attendants, then thebride, in a European carriage, a troop of memlooks clad in armour, and aTurkish band of music. It was a procession of which the like had notbefore been seen.The bride and her party, having arrived at the house, sit down to arepast. The bridegroom does not yet see her. He has already been to thebath, and at nightfall he goes in procession with a number of hisfriends to a mosque, to perform the night prayers. he is accompanied bymusicians and singers, or by chanters of lyric odes in praise of theProphet. and by men bearing cressets (poles with cylindrical frames ofiron at the top filled with flaming wood). and on his return, most ofhis other attendants bear lighted wax candles, and bunches of flowers.Returned to his house, he leaves his friends in a lower apartment, andgoes up to the bride, whom he finds seated, with a shawl thrown over herhead, so as to conceal her face completely, and attended by one or twofemales. The latter he induces to retire, by means of a small present.He then gives a present of money to the bride, as "the price ofuncovering the face," and having removed the covering (saying, as hedoes so, "In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful"), hebeholds her, generally, for the first time. On the occasion of thisfirst visit, which is called the "dukhool," or "dukhleh," he isrecommended "to perfume himself, and to sprinkle some sugar and almondson the head of the bride and on that of each woman with her. thispractice being established by existing usage and by traditions: also,when he approaches her, he should perform the prayers of two rek'ahs.and she should do the same if able: then he should take hold of the hairover her forehead, and say, 'O God, bless me in my wife, and bless mywife in me! O God, bestow upon me by her, and bestow uponher by me! O God, unite us, as Thou hast united, happily.and separate us, when Thou separatest, happily!'" 40. The arboosh is a woollen skull cap, of a deep blood redcolour, having a tassel of dark blue silk attached to the crown. It isnow worn by most Arabs of the higher and middle classes, and by manyothers, except in Arabia, where it is not so common. Round it is woundthe muslin or shawl which forms the turban. Within it is worn a cottoncap. The Turks call it "fes," and "fes." 41. The farajeeyeh is a loose robe or coat, now generally made ofcloth, with full and long sleeves extending a little beyond theextremities of the fingers and without any slit. It is worn chiefly bypersons of the learned professions. 42. This is the usual mode in which money is collected for thesinging women in the present day. 43. "ooreeyeh" is the appellation commonly given by the Arabs to avirgin of Paradise, by French and English writers, termed "Houri." whichterm, in Arabic, converts a female into a male, but is agreeable withthe Persian equivalent of the Arabic "ooreeyeh." 44. _On the Evil Eye._ Some remarks on the "evil eye" have beenmade in a former note (No. 24 in the present series), with respect tochildren, and the means of counteracting its supposed influence. but Imention this subject again partly with the view of suggesting to thereader the necessity of bearing it in mind, as it explains many usagesdescribed, or alluded to, in this work, which would otherwise appearunaccountable. He may remember a well known line of Virgil "Nescio quis teneros oculus mihi fascinat agnos,"which, like many other allusions in works of ancient authors, shews howlong and how extensively this superstition has been entertained. Howdeeply it is rooted in the minds of Arabs, even the most religious andlearned, may be inferred from this saying of their Prophet: "The eye hasa complete influence. because verily, if there were a thing to overcomefate, it most certainly would be a malignant eye." Hence hepermitted charms (which he disallowed in almost every other case) to beemployed for the purpose of counteracting its influence. Thefollowing observation, selected from several of a similar nature in mywork on the Modern Egyptians, aptly illustrates the passage to whichthis note immediately refers. "It is a custom among the higher andmiddle classes in Cairo, on the occasion of a marriage, to hangchandeliers in the street before the bridegroom's house. and it oftenhappens that a crowd is collected to see a very large and handsomechandelier suspended: in this case, it is a common practice to divertthe attention of the spectators by throwing down and breaking a largejar, or by some other artifice, lest an envious eye should cause thechandelier to fall." 45. The closet here alluded to, being one in which ablution isperformed, always contains a small trough of water, or a ewer. 46. This epithet, "unlucky," is often applied to an 'Efreet. I havefrequently heard it thus used by Arabs. 47. "Aboo Shihab" (literally, Father of a Shooting Star) is anickname often given to a devil, and is so employed because devils, orevil jinnees, are sometimes destroyed by shooting stars hurled at themby angels. an instance of which occurs in the tale under consideration. 48. "Sitt el osn" signifies "the Lady of Beauty." 49. "asheesh" is the intoxicating hemp, which has been mentionedin former notes. 50. Thus in the Breslau edition, and in the Calcutta edition of thefirst two hundred nights. but in the edition of Cairo, the cook ismerely termed a prodigal. 51. _On Adoption._ The Mohammadan law allows the adoption of sons,provided that the person to be adopted consents to the act, if of age tojudge for himself. also, that he has been deprived of his parents bydeath or other means. and that there be such a difference of age betweenthe two parties as might subsist between a natural father and his son.The adopted son enjoys the same right of inheritance as the natural son.but the adoptive father is not prevented by this act from marrying anyrelation of his adopted son. 52. In the houses of Arabs of the more wealthy classes, there isusually a chair upon which the turban is placed at night. It is of alarge size, but slight make. the bottom and back being generally ofcane work. and sometimes it has a kind of canopy constructed over it.The turban, when placed upon it, is covered with a kerchief of thicksilk stuff, often embroidered or interwoven with gold thread. 53. "Moilee" may be understood as meaning either "of the fashionof El Moil," or "of muslin:" but the former, according to my sheykh, isthe signification here intended. I think there is nothing peculiar inthe common modern turban of El Moil. 54. This is done under the idea that it strengthens the infant'seyes. 55. "'Ajeeb" signifies "Wonderful." 56. The meaning of this is, that he grew in a day as other childrenin a month. and in a month, as others in a year. 57. The death of the cook is mentioned in the edition of Breslau.but not in that of Cairo. 58. This ejaculation is generally uttered at the mention of adeceased Muslim. 59. "aeb" is a title given to Wezeers, as mentioned in Note 8 tothe Introduction. 60. In the original, fifteen. The age of 'Ajeeb has been shewn tohave been little more than eleven at this period. therefore I havesubstituted twelve for fifteen. In page 243 I have made a similarcorrection, substituting fifteen for eighteen. 61. This alludes to a custom common in the East, that of giving apresent of a dress, or some article of clothing, to a person who hasbrought good news. 62. The term "boy" is not used here to imply that the eunuch was ayouth. but in the sense in which it is often employed by us. assynonymous with "servant." 63. "Er Reydaneeyeh" is the name of a tract on the north of Cairo,where travellers arriving from Syria generally halted. In the original,by errors in the diacritical points, this name is converted into"Ez Zebedaneeyeh." 64. The word which I translate "a cross," literally signifies "aneffigy." but I suppose this term to be employed merely because a crossbears a rude resemblance to a man with extended arms. 65. "The name of Allah encompass thee!" (or, literally, " bearound thee!") is an ejaculation often used, especially by women,agreeing exactly with the expression in the first verse of the twentiethPsalm, "The name of the God of Jacob defend thee!" the "name" of Godhere signifying his power. "The name of the Lord is a strong tower: therighteous runneth into it, and is safe." (Proverbs xviii. 10.) 66. Here, for a reason given above, I have substituted "twelve" for"ten." 67. In the original, the last of these verses is here omitted, butmy sheykh has supplied it in the margin of my copy, and it occursafterwards, in the 75th night, in which the preceding verses, with someslight variations, are repeated. 68. _On the Expiation of Oaths._ The law clearly allows expiationfor an inconsiderate oath, and, according to vulgar opinion, for theviolation of a deliberate oath. The expiation consists in oncefeeding or clothing ten poor men, liberating a Muslim slave or captive,or fasting three days. An unintentional oath requires no expiation. butthe swearing to a falsehood can only be expiated by deep repentance. 69. Hole observes (page 222), that "the discovery of Bedreddin inthe Arabian Nights by the tarts he had made, bears internal evidence ofhaving been copied from Nella Raja's detection by the same means:" andhe refers to Kindersley's "Specimens of Indian Literature."