it for a single hour. His father, the King, used to forbid him thispursuit, fearing, on his account, the perils of the desert and the wildbeasts. but he would not receive his warnings. And it came to pass thathe said to his servants, Take with you provender for ten days. And theycomplied with his order. and when he went forth with his followers tothe chase, they proceeded over the desert, and continued their coursefor four days, until they came in sight of a verdant tract, where theybeheld wild beasts ranging at large, and trees with ripe fruit, andsprings gushing forth. so he said to his followers, Set here the nets,and enlarge their circle, and our place of meeting shall be at theextremity of the circle, at such a spot. They therefore obeyed hiscommands: they set the nets, and enlarged their circle, and therecollected within them an abundance and a variety of wild beasts andgazelles, in such numbers that the wild beasts cried out in fear ofthem, and threw themselves in the faces of the horses in their attemptsto escape. So he urged the dogs and the lynxes and thehawks at them. and they shot the wild beasts with arrows, striking themin mortal places, and they arrived not at the further extremity of thecircle without having taken, of the wild beasts, a great number. therest having fled away. Taj el Mulook then alighted at some water, and,having caused the game to be brought before him, divided it: heappropriated to his father, Suleyman Shah, the best of the beasts, anddespatched the portion to him. and some he distributed among theofficers of his court.They passed the night at that place. and in the morning there approachedthem a great caravan, comprising black slaves and servants andmerchants. The caravan halted at the water and the verdant tract. andwhen Taj el Mulook beheld them, he said to one of his companions, Bringme an account of these people, and ask them wherefore they have haltedin this place. And when the messenger went to them, he said to them,Inform us who ye are, and return an answer quickly. So they replied, Weare merchants, and have halted here for the sake of rest, for the nextstation is distant from us. and we have halted in this place because wehere enjoy tranquillity under the protection of the King Suleyman Shahand his son. for we know that every one who alighteth in his dominionsis in safety and peace. and we have some precious stuffs which we havebrought on account of his son Taj el Mulook. The messenger, therefore,returned to the King's son, and acquainted him with the truth of thematter, informing him of what he had heard from the merchants. and theKing's son said, If they have anything which they have brought on myaccount, I will not enter the city nor remove from this place until Icause it to be displayed before me. He then mounted his horse, andproceeded, his memlooks following him, until he drew near to thecaravan. and the merchants rose to him, and greeted him with prayers forthe divine aid and favour, and the continuance of his glory and hisexcellencies. A tent of red satin embroidered with pearls and jewels waspitched for him, and they spread for him, over a carpet of silk, a royalcarpet, the upper end of which was adorned with emeralds: andTaj el Mulook seated himself, and the memlooks stood waiting upon him.and he sent to the merchants, commanding them to bring everything thatthey had with them. So they approached him with their merchandise, andhe caused all of it to be displayed before him, and took of it whatsuited him, and gave them the price.After this, he mounted, and was about to depart. when, casting a glanceat the caravan, he saw a young man, a comely youth, attired in cleanclothes, of elegant person, with shining forehead and brilliantcountenance. but the charms of this youth had suffered a change, andpaleness had overspread him, in consequence of his separation from theobjects of his affection. great was his groaning and lamentation, and,with tears flowing from his eyes, he recited these verses: Our separation is protracted, and anxiety and fear are prolonged.and tears from my eye, O my friend, are flowing.I bade farewell to my heart on the day of parting, and now I am alone,without heart, and without hope.O my friend, pause with me while I bid her farewell by whose voicediseases and infirmities would be cured.Having thus said, he wept a while, and fell down in a swoon, whileTaj el Mulook looked at him, wondering at his case. and when herecovered, he stared with a bold look, and again recited some verses,commencing thus: Beware of her eye. for it is enchanting, and none escapeth uponwhom it is cast.He then uttered a loud sigh, and a second time swooned. and whenTaj el Mulook beheld him in this state, he was perplexed at his case,and walked towards him. and as soon as he recovered from his fit, he sawthe King's son standing at his head. whereupon he rose upon his feet,and kissed the ground before him. and Taj el Mulook said to him,Wherefore hast thou not displayed thy merchandise to us? O my lord, heanswered, my merchandise compriseth nothing suitable to thy highness.But the King's son said, Thou must positively shew me what thou hast,and acquaint me with thy circumstances. for I see thee with weeping eyeand mourning heart. and if thou be oppressed, we will put an end to theoppression that thou sufferest. and if thou be in debt, we willdischarge thy debt. for my heart hath been tormented on thine accountsince I first beheld thee.Then Taj el Mulook gave orders to place a chair. and they set for him achair of ivory and ebony ornamented with reticulated work of gold andsilk, and they spread for him a silken carpet. and Taj el Mulook seatedhimself upon the chair, and commanded the young man to sit upon thecarpet, and said to him, Display to me thy merchandise. The young manreplied, O my lord, mention it not unto me. for my merchandise is notsuitable to thee. But Taj el Mulook said to him, It must be done: andordered some of his pages to bring it: so they brought it in spite ofhim. and when the young man beheld it, his tears flowed, and he wept andsighed and lamented, and groans rose from his throat. After againrepeating some verses, he opened his merchandise, and displayed itbefore Taj el Mulook, portion by portion and piece by piece, and tookforth from among it a garment of satin interwoven with gold, worth twothousand pieces of gold. and when he opened this, there fell from themidst of it a piece of linen, and the young man, snatching it hastily,put it beneath him, his reason wandering, and thus exclaimed. When will the tortured heart be healed by thee? The constellationof the Pleiades is nearer to me than thou!Taj el Mulook was struck with the utmost wonder at his words, notknowing the cause of them. and when the young man took the piece oflinen, and put it beneath him, Taj el Mulook said to him, What is thispiece of linen? He answered, O my lord, thou hast no interest in this.But the King's son said, Shew it to me. O my lord, he replied, Irefrained not from exposing to thee my merchandise but on account ofthis. for I cannot allow thee to see it. Taj el Mulook, however, said, Imust see it: and he urged him, and was angry. The young man, therefore,took it from beneath his knee, and wept and sighed and lamentedexceedingly: so Taj el Mulook said to him, I regard thy conduct as notright: acquaint me then with the cause of thy weeping at beholding thispiece of linen. And when the young man heard the mention of the piece oflinen, he sighed, and said, O my lord, my story is wonderful, and mycase is strange with respect to this piece of linen and her to whom itbelonged, and her who designed these figures and emblems. He thenunfolded the piece of linen. and lo, in it was the figure of a gazelleworked with silk, and embroidered with red gold, and facing it was thefigure of another gazelle worked with silver, and having upon its neck aring of red gold and three aabehs of chrysolite. WhenTaj el Mulook beheld this, and observed the beauty of its execution, heexclaimed, Extolled be the perfection of God, who hath taught man thatwhich he knew not! And his heart was engrossed with desireto hear the story of this young man. so he said to him, Relate to me thestory of thyself and of her who was the owner of these gazelles. Theyoung man, therefore, replied, THE STORY OF 'AZEEZ AND 'AZEEZEH.Know, O my lord, that my father was a great merchant, and he was blestwith no child but me. I had a cousin (the daughter of a paternal uncle)with whom I was brought up in my father's house. for her father haddied, and before his death he had made an agreement with my father thatthey should marry me to her: so, when I had attained to manhood, and sheto womanhood, they did not exclude her from me, nor me from her. Myfather then spoke to my mother, and said to her, This year we willperform the marriage contract of 'Azeez and 'Azeezeh. Andhaving agreed with my mother to do this, he began to make ready theprovisions for the entertainments.All this was done while I and my cousin were living together without theslightest restraint, and ignorant of the circumstance. and she was moreintelligent and more knowing than I. And when my father had made thepreparations for the festivity, and nothing remained but the performanceof the contract, and my union to my cousin, my father proposed that theyshould perform the contract after the Friday prayers: so he repaired tohis friends, the merchants and others, and acquainted them with hisintention. and my mother went and invited her female friends andrelations. And when the Friday came, they washed the saloon which wasappropriated to the guests, and cleansed its marble pavement, and spreadthe carpets in our house, and furnished it with everything that wasrequisite, after they had decorated its walls with stuffs interwovenwith gold. the people having agreed to pay their compliments to ourfamily after the Friday prayers. My father then went and causedsweetmeats and dishes of sugar to be prepared. and there remainednothing but the performance of the contract. My mother had sent me tothe bath, and sent after me a new suit of clothes of the richestdescription. and on my coming out from the bath, I put on this handsomesuit, which was perfumed. and when I put it on, a delicious odour wasdiffused from it, and left a fragrance in the way.I desired now to repair to the mosque. but, remembering one of myfriends, I returned to search for him, that he might be present at theceremony of the contract, saying within myself, I will busy me with thisaffair until the time of prayer draws near. I then entered a by streetwhich I had never entered before. I was perspiring from the effect ofthe bath and the new clothes which I wore, and the moisture dropped fromme while my perfumes diffused their odour. so I seated myself at theupper end of the street to take rest upon a maabah, and spread beneathme an embroidered handkerchief that I had with me. The heat becameoppressive to me, and my forehead perspired, and the drops ran down myface, and I could not wipe the moisture from it with my handkerchiefbecause it was spread beneath me: I was therefore about to take theskirt of my farajeeyeh to wipe with it my cheek, when suddenly a whitehandkerchief fell upon me from above. This handkerchief was moredelicate to the feel than the zephyr, and the sight of it was morepleasant than restoration to the diseased. and I took it in my hand,and, raising my head to see whence it had fallen, my eye met the eye ofthe female who owned these gazelles. and lo, she was looking out from alattice in a window of brass. My eye never beheld a person more lovely,and altogether her charms were such as the tongue cannot describe. andwhen she saw me looking at her, she put her finger in her mouth, andthen united her middle finger and her fore finger, and placed them uponher bosom. after which, she drew in her head from the window, and shutthe lattice and withdrew. A fire had been darted into my heart, and theflame increased. the sight drew from me a thousand sighs, and I wasperplexed. for I heard not anything from her, and understood not whatshe meant by her signs. I looked again towards the window. but found itclosed: and I waited until sunset. but heard no sound, nor saw anyperson. so, despairing of seeing her again, I rose from my place, andtook the handkerchief with me. I opened it, and the odour of musk wasdiffused from it, and I was so exhilarated by the scent that I seemed asif I were in paradise. I then spread it before me. whereupon there fellfrom it a piece of delicate paper, and, opening this, I found it richlyperfumed with exquisite scents, and inscribed with these verses: I sent a letter to complain to him of the pain of my passion,in a delicate handwriting (for handwritings are various).So my beloved said, Wherefore is thy writing thus delicateand minute, so as scarce to be discernible?I answered, Because I am wasted and attenuated: so, therefore,should the writing of lovers be.After this, I cast a glance at the beauty of the handkerchief, andbeheld an amatory couplet worked upon one of its two borders,and another, of a similar kind, on its other border.When I saw these verses upon the handkerchief, a flame of fire shot intomy heart, and my desire and perplexity increased. and I took thehandkerchief and the paper, and went with them to the house, not knowingany means of obtaining what I desired, and incapable of discovering howto proceed properly in my love. I arrived not at the house until aconsiderable portion of the night had elapsed, and beheld my cousinsitting weeping. but when she saw me, she wiped away her tears, andapproached me, and took off from me my outer clothes, and asked me thecause of my absence. She told me that all the people, the emeers andgrandees, and merchants and others, had assembled in our house, and theaee and the witnesses had come, and they ate the repast, and remaineda considerable while sitting in expectation of my presence for thepurpose of performing the marriage contract, and when they despaired ofmy coming, they dispersed and went their ways. Thy father, said she,was violently enraged on account of this, and swore that he would notperform our marriage contract until next year. for he hath expended uponthis festivity a large sum of money. What, she added, hath happened untothee this day, that thou hast delayed thy return until now, and thatthis hath happened on account of thine absence?I answered her, Such and such things have happened to me: andmentioned to her the handkerchief, acquainting her with the affair fromfirst to last: and she took the paper and the handkerchief, and readwhat was upon them, and her tears ran down upon her cheeks. and sheasked me, What did she say to thee, and of what did she make signs tothee? I answered, She uttered not a word. but put her finger in hermouth, and then united it with the middle finger, and placed bothfingers upon her bosom, and pointed to the ground: then she drew in herhead, and closed the lattice, and I saw her not afterwards. She carriedoff my heart with her, and I sat until sunset in expectation of herlooking out from the lattice a second time. but she did it not. and whenI despaired of seeing her again, I rose from the place. This is mystory. and I beg of thee to aid me in the trouble in which I aminvolved. Upon this, she raised her head towards me, and said, O son ofmy uncle, if thou requiredst mine eye, I would pull it out for thee frommy eyelids. and I must assist thee in the accomplishment of thy desire,and assist her in like manner. for she is overwhelmed by love for thee,as thou art by love for her. And what, said I, is the interpretation ofthe signs which she made? Her putting her finger in her mouth, sheanswered, indicateth that thou art in her estimation as her soul to herbody, and that she longeth for thy union with her. and asto the handkerchief, it is a signal of the lover's salutation to thebeloved. and the paper denoteth that her soul is captivated by thee. andas to her putting her two fingers upon her bosom, the meaning of it isas though she said to thee, After two days come hither, that myaffliction may be dissipated by thy countenance. And know,O son of my uncle, she continued, that she loveth thee and confideth inthee. This is my interpretation of her signs. and if I had liberty to goin and out at pleasure, I would effect thy union with her in theshortest time, and protect you both with my skirt. When I heard thesewords from her, said the young man, I thanked her for what she had said,and I said within myself, I will wait two days. I then remained two daysin the house, neither going out nor coming in, nor eating nor drinking.I put my head in the lap of my cousin. and she cheered me by herconversation, and said to me, Be resolute and of good heart, and dressthyself, and repair to her at the time appointed. And she arose, andchanged my clothes, and perfumed me with incense.I then braced up my nerves, and fortified my heart, and went forth, andproceeded until I entered the by street, and after I had sat a whileupon the maabah, lo, the lattice opened. I looked towards the damsel,and when I saw her I fell down in a swoon: then recovering, I summonedresolution, and took heart, and looked at her a second time. but again Ibecame insensible. and when I recovered, I saw with her a mirror and ared handkerchief. Observing me now, she tucked up her sleeves from herfore arms, and, opening her five fingers, struck her bosom with them(with the palm and the five fingers): next she raised her hands, andheld forth the mirror from the lattice, and took the red handkerchief,and retired with it. after which she returned, and let it down from thelattice towards the street three times, letting it down and raising it,and then wringing it and twisting it with her hand, and bending down herhead: she then drew it in through the lattice, and closed the lattice,and departed, without speaking to me one word, but leaving me inperplexity, not knowing to what she alluded. I remained sitting thereuntil the hour of nightfall, and went home near midnight.I found my cousin with her hand placed to her cheek, and her eyelidspouring forth tears. and upon this, my anxieties and griefs increased,and I fell down in a corner of the chamber. but she sprang towards me,and lifted me up, and, having taken off from me my outer clothes, wipedmy face with her sleeve, and asked me what had happened to me. Irelated to her, therefore, all that had happened on the part of thedamsel: and she said to me, O son of my uncle, as to her sign withher hand and five fingers, its interpretation is, Come hither afterfive days: and as to her sign with the mirror, and her puttingforth her head from the lattice (and her actions with the redhandkerchief), the meaning is, Seat thyself at the shop ofthe dyer until my messenger shall come to thee. When I heard her words,fire burned in my heart, and I replied, By Allah, O daughter of myuncle, thou sayest truly in this interpretation. for I saw in theby street a Jewish dyer. I then wept, and my cousin said, Be resolute,and firm of heart. for others than thou are troubled with love for aperiod of years, and contend with the fierceness of passion, while thouhast but a week to endure: wherefore then should this impatienceovercome thee? And she proceeded to cheer me with her conversation, andbrought me food. and I took a morsel, and would have eaten it. but Icould not. I abstained from drink and food, and renounced the delightsof sleep, and my complexion became pallid, and my charms became changed.for I had never known love before that, nor tasted the fervency of thatpassion before. and I fell sick, and my cousin became sick on myaccount. She occupied herself in relating to me the sufferings oflovers, in order to enliven me, until I fell asleep. and I used toawake, and find her sleepless on my account, with her tears flowing uponher cheeks. and thus I remained until the five days had passed, when mycousin arose, and heated some water for me, and bathed me with it, anddressed me, and said to me, Repair to her, and may Allah accomplish thywish, and grant thee what thou desirest of thy beloved.So I went, and walked on until I came to the upper end of the by street,and that day was Saturday. so I found the shop of the dyer shut: and Isat there till the call to afternoon prayers. and the sun became yellow,and the call to evening prayers was chanted. and night commenced, and Isaw no trace of her, nor heard a voice, nor received any message: Itherefore feared for myself, sitting alone. and I rose and walked away,like one intoxicated, until I entered the house.There, on going in, I beheld my cousin 'Azeezeh with one of her handsholding a peg knocked into the wall, and her other hand upon her bosom.and she was groaning, and reciting verses. but when she had finished herrecitation, she turned her eyes towards me, and beheld me. whereupon shewiped away her tears and mine with her sleeve, and, smiling in my face,said to me, O son of my uncle, Allah grant thee enjoyment of that whichHe hath given thee! Wherefore hast thou not visited thy beloved thisnight? And when I heard her words, I kicked her with my foot upon herbosom, and she fell down upon the raised floor, and there was a pegthere, and it wounded her forehead. On looking at her I saw that herforehead was cut open, and her blood was flowing. yet she was silent,and uttered not a single letter. but rose immediately, and burned sometinder of rags, and, having closed with it the wound, tied a bandageround her head, and wiped away the blood that had flowed upon thecarpet. and it was as though this accident had not occurred. She thencame to me, and, smiling in my face, said to me with a gentle voice, ByAllah, O son of my uncle, I said not this to make a jest of thee or ofher. I was troubled just now by the aching of my head, and with wipingaway the blood: but at the present moment the pain of my head isalleviated, and that of my forehead: tell me therefore what hathhappened to thee this day. So I related to her all that had befallen methrough the conduct of that damsel on this day. and after I had done soI wept. but she said to me, Rejoice at the announcement of the successof thy desire, and the accomplishment of thy hope. Verily this is a signof acceptance: for she absented herself from thee because she desirethto try thee, and to know whether thou art patient or not, and whetherthou art sincere in thy love of her or not. To morrow go to her, andstation thyself at thy first place, and see what sign she will make tothee. for thy happiness is near, and thy sorrow is dissipated. And sheproceeded to console me. but I ceased not to increase in anxiety andgrief. She then placed the food before me. but I kicked it with my foot,and the contents of each saucer were scattered about. and I said, Everyone who is in love is insane, and inclineth not to food, nor findethpleasure in sleep. By Allah, O son of my uncle, exclaimed my cousin'Azeezeh, these are indeed symptoms of love! And her tears flowed, andshe gathered together the fragments of the saucers, and wiped up thefood that was spilt, and sat chatting to me, while I prayed to God thatHe would hasten the morning.And when the morning came, and diffused its light, I repaired to thedamsel, and entered hastily the by street, where I seated myself uponthe maabah before mentioned. and lo, the window was opened, and sheput forth her head from it, laughing. She then retired, and returnedbringing a mirror, and a bag, and a pot filled with green plants, andhaving also in her hand a lamp: and the first thing that she did wasthis: she took the mirror in her hand, and put it into the bag: then shetied it up and threw it back into the chamber. After this, she let downher hair over her face, and put the lamp upon the top of the greenplants for a moment, and then took all these things and departed withthem, and closed the lattice. My heart was riven by her secret signs andher obscure intimations, for she addressed me not with a single word,and my passion grew more violent thereat, and my excitement anddistraction increased.I retraced my steps with weeping eye and sorrowful heart until I enteredthe house, where I saw my cousin sitting with her face to the wall: herheart was burning with anxiety and grief and jealousy. but her affectionprevented her from acquainting me at all with the passion which she felton witnessing my excessive love and distraction. I then looked at heragain, and saw that she had, on her head, two bandages: one of them wason account of the accident that had happened to her forehead, and theother was upon her eye, on account of a pain that she suffered inconsequence of the violence of her weeping. She was in a most miserablecase, weeping, and reciting these verses: Wherever thou be, mayst thou be in safety, O thou who departest,and yet dwellest in my heart!May God be near thee wherever thou goest, to deliver thee fromvicissitudes and from misfortunes!Thou hast gone, and mine eye is cheerless through thine absence,and my tears are flowing O how abundantly!And when she had ended her recitation, she looked towards me and saw meas she wept, and she wiped away her tears, and rose to me. but she couldnot speak, from the excessive love with which she was affected, and sheremained for some time silent. after which, she said to me, O son of myuncle, tell me what thou hast experienced from her on this occasion. AndI told her all that had happened to me. whereupon she said to me, Bepatient. for the time of thy union is come, and thou hast attained theobject of thy hopes. As to the sign that she made to thee with themirror, and her putting it into the bag, it is equivalent to her sayingto thee, Wait until the sun shall have set: and as to her letting fallher hair over her face, it implieth her saying to thee, When nightcometh, and letteth fall its black shade over the light of day, comehither: and the sign that she made to thee with the pot containing theplants meant that she would say to thee, When thou comest, enter thegarden that is behind the by street: and the sign which she made tothee with the lamp denoted her saying to thee, When thou enterest thegarden, to the place where thou findest the lighted lamp do thou repair,and seat thyself beneath it, and there wait for me. for the love of theedestroyeth me. But when I heard these words of my cousin, I cried outfrom the excess of my passion, and said, How many times dost thoupromise me, and I go to her and attain not my desire, nor find a truemeaning to thine interpretation? And upon this, my cousin laughed, andreplied, It remaineth for thee to have patience during the rest of thisday, until the daylight is gone, and the night cometh with its deepdarkness, and then shalt thou enjoy thy union and the accomplishment ofthy hopes. and these words are true, without any falsehood. She thendrew near to me, and comforted me with soft words, but dared not bringme any food, fearing that I should be angry with her, and hoping that Imight incline to her with favour: she only came to me, and took off myouter clothes: after which she said to me, O son of my uncle, sit withme that I may converse with thee to amuse thee until the close of theday, and, if it be the will of God, the night shall not come without thybeing in the company of thy beloved. But I took no notice of her,waiting for the night, and saying, O Allah, hasten the coming of thenight! And when it arrived, my cousin wept violently, and gave me agrain of pure musk, saying to me, O son of my uncle, put this grain inthy mouth, and when thou hast met thy Beloved, and she hath accepted thysuit, recite to her this verse: O ye lovers, by Allah, inform me, how a youth should act whenhis love is intense.She then kissed me, and desired me to swear that I would not recite thisverse until my departure from the damsel. and I replied, I hear andobey.I went forth at the hour of nightfall, and proceeded until I came to thegarden. I found its gate open, and entered, and beheld a light in thedistance. so I advanced towards it, and when I arrived at it, I foundthere a large ma'ad, over which was constructed a dome ofivory and ebony, and the lamp was suspended in the midst of the dome.The ma'ad was furnished with silken carpets embroidered with gold andsilver. and there was a great lighted candle in a candlestick of goldbeneath the lamp: in the midst of the chamber was a fountain ornamentedwith various designs: by the side of this fountain was atable of viands covered with a silk napkin, near which was a large chinabottle full of wine, with a cup of crystal adorned with gilding. and bythe side of all these things was a great tray of silver, covered over. Iuncovered it, and beheld in it a variety of fruits, such as figs andpomegranates and grapes and oranges and citrons of different kinds,together with various flowers, as roses and jasmine and myrtle andeglantine and narcissus, and all kinds of sweet scents. I was astonishedat this place, and affected with the utmost delight, and my anxiety andgrief were dissipated. but I found not in this abode any being of thecreatures of God (whose name be exalted!). not even a male or femaleslave did I see, nor the person who thus neglected these things. I satin this chamber, waiting for the coming of the beloved of my heart,until the first hour of the night had passed, and the second hour, andthe third. but she came not. and hunger began to torment me violently,for a long time had elapsed without my eating food, through the excessof my passion. but when I beheld this place, and my cousin's correctunderstanding of the signs made by my beloved became manifest to me, Ifelt at ease. yet I still experienced the torment of hunger, and thesavoury odours of the food upon the table had excited my desire on myarrival there. Feeling secure, therefore, of the attainment of myobject, and longing to eat, I approached the table, and took off thecover, and found in the midst of it a dish of china containing fourfricandoed fowls seasoned with spices, around which were four saucers.one containing sweetmeats. and another, conserve of pomegranate grains.and a third, balaweh. thecontents of these saucers consisting both of sweet and acid. So I ate ofthe aaif, and a piece of meat, and I put my hand to the balaweh andate of it as much as was agreeable, and then turned to the sweetmeat andate a spoonful, or two, or three, or four, and I ate a portion of afowl, and a morsel of another dish: and when I had done this, my stomachwas full, and my joints became loose, and I was too lazy to remainawake. so I laid my head upon a cushion, after I had washed my hands,and sleep overcame me, and I knew not what happened to me after this. Iawoke not until the sun scorched me (for some days had passed without myhaving tasted sleep). and when I awoke, I found upon my stomach somesalt and charcoal. and I stood up and shook my clothes, and looked tothe right and left, but found no one: I discovered that I had beensleeping upon the marble pavement without anything spread beneath me,and I was perplexed in my mind, and mourned greatly. my tears ran downupon my cheeks, and I lamented for myself.I then returned to the house, and when I arrived there I found my cousinstriking her hand upon her bosom, and weeping with tears like rainingclouds. but when she beheld me she arose quickly, and wiped away hertears, and, addressing me with her soft speech, said to me, O son of myuncle, God hath been gracious to thee in thy passion, since the personwhom thou lovest loveth thee, while _I_ remain weeping and mourning forthe separation of thee who findest fault with me. but may God notchastise thee on my account! She then smiled in my face with the smileof one in anger, and caressed me, and took off my outer clothes, andspread them out, and said, By Allah, these are not the odours of one whohath enjoyed the company of his beloved! Tell me, then, what hathhappened to thee, O son of my uncle. And I told her all that hadbefallen me. whereupon she smiled a second time with the smile of one inanger, and said, Verily, my heart is full and in pain! But may theperson who paineth thy heart cease to exist! This woman maketh herselfextravagantly difficult to thee. By Allah, O son of my uncle, I fearwhat she may do to thee. Know that the meaning of the salt is, Thou artdrowned in sleep, and seemest insipid, so that the soul regardeth theewith loathing, and thou requirest to be salted, that the stomach may noteject thee: thou pretendest that thou art of the number of generouslovers. but sleep, unto lovers, is forbidden. and thy pretension to loveis false. Such, however, is her pretension: her love for thee is false,for when she saw thee sleeping she did not rouse thee. and had her lovefor thee been true she would have roused thee. And as to the charcoal,the meaning indicated by it is, May God blacken thy face,since thou hast made false pretensions to love, when thou art only achild, and hast no care but for eating and drinking and sleeping. Thisis the interpretation of her sign. and may Allah (whose name beexalted!) deliver thee from her. Now when I heard what she said, Istruck my hand upon my breast, and exclaimed, By Allah, this is thetruth. for I slept. and lovers sleep not: so I have wronged mine ownself. What could have been more injurious to me than eating andsleeping? And what is to be done? I then wept exceedingly, and said tomy cousin, Direct me what to do, and have mercy upon me. so may God havemercy upon thee. otherwise I shall die. My cousin, therefore, having avery great love for me, replied, On my head and my eye! But, O son of myuncle, I have told thee several times, that, if I had the privilege ofcoming in and going out when I pleased, I would accomplish thy unionwith her in the shortest time, and cover you both with my skirt. andthis I would not do but from the desire of obtaining thine approval. IfGod permit, I will employ my utmost endeavours to bring you together.but hear my words, and comply with my directions, and go to that sameplace, and seat thyself there: when the hour of nightfall is come, seatthyself in the place where thou wast, and beware of eating anything. foreating induceth sleep: have a care then that thou sleep not. for shewill not come to thee until a quarter of the night hath passed: and mayGod avert from thee her wickedness! So, when I heard her words, Irejoiced, and prayed God to hasten the night. and when night came, Idesired to depart. and my cousin said to me, When thou hast met her,repeat to her the verse before mentioned, at the time of thy departure.I replied, On the head and the eye.And when I went forth and repaired to the garden, I found the placeprepared, in the same state in which I had seen it before. in it waseverything requisite, of food and drink and dried fruits and sweetscents and other things. and I went up into the ma'ad, and, smellingthe odour of the food, I longed for it. I refrained from it severaltimes. but at length I could not withstand it: so I arose and went tothe table, and took off its cover, and found a dish of fowls, aroundwhich were four saucers of food of four different kinds. and I ate ofeach kind a morsel, and as much as was agreeable of the sweetmeat, and apiece of meat, and drank some zardeh, and, finding itpleasant to me, I drank again of it plentifully by the spoonful until Iwas satiated and my stomach was full. And after this, my eyelids closed.so I took a pillow and put it beneath my head, saying, Perhaps I mayrecline upon it without sleeping. But I closed my eyes and slept, andawoke not until the sun had risen, when I found upon my stomach aplay bone and a ab stick and a date stone and alocust seed. and there was no furniture nor anything else in the placeand it seemed as if nothing had been there on the preceding night.I rose, and shook off all these things from me, and went forth enraged,and, arriving at the house, I found my cousin groaning. and I chid herand abused her. whereupon she wept, and, having wiped away her tears,approached and kissed me, and pressed me to her bosom. but I drew backfrom her, blaming myself. She then said to me, O son of my uncle, itseemeth that thou hast slept again this last night. I replied, Yes. andwhen I awoke I found a play bone laid upon my stomach, and a ab stickand a date stone and a locust seed. and I know not wherefore she didthis. Then I wept, and approached her, and said to her, Explain to methe meaning of her doing this, and tell me how I shall act, and assistme in my trouble. She replied, On the head and the eye. As to theab stick , which she placed upon thy stomach, shemeaneth thereby, that thou camest there and thy heart was absent. asthough she would say to thee, Love is not thus. therefore reckon notthyself among lovers. And as to the date stone, sheindicated by it, that, if thou wert a lover, thy heart had been burningwith passion, and thou wouldst not taste the delight of sleep. for thesweetness of love is like a date, which kindleth a fire in theheart. And as to the locust seed, she intimated to thee byit, that the heart of the lover is fatigued. and she would say to theethereby, Endure our separation with the patience of Job. WhenI heard this interpretation, fire darted into my heart, and my griefincreased, and I cried out and exclaimed, God had decreed that I shouldsleep, on account of my little fortune! I then said to her, O daughterof my uncle, by my life I conjure thee to contrive for me some stratagemby means of which I may obtain an interview with her. And I wept. O'Azeez, O son of my uncle, she replied, verily my heart is full ofthoughts, and I cannot talk. but go thou to night to that place, andbeware of sleeping, and so shalt thou attain thy desire. This is mycounsel, and peace be on thee. I said, If it please God, I will notsleep. but I will do as thou chargest me. And my cousin arose, andbrought me food, saying to me, Eat now what will satisfy thee, that thoumayest have no desire remaining. So I ate what satisfied me: and whennight came, my cousin arose, and brought me a superb suit of clothing,and clad me with it, and conjured me to repeat to the damsel the versebefore mentioned, and cautioned me against sleeping.I then departed from her, and, having repaired to the garden, went upinto the ma'ad. and I gazed at the garden, and kept opening my eyeswith my fingers, and shaking my head, as the night grew dark. But Ibecame hungry from watching, and the odours of the food were waftedtowards me, and my hunger in consequence increased: so I went to thetable, and removed its cover, and ate a morsel of every dish, and apiece of meat, and I went to the bottle of wine, saying within myself, Iwill drink a cup: and I drank it, and then drank the second, and thethird, and so on to the number of ten. and being already stricken bylove, I fell upon the floor as one slain. Thus I remained until daycame, and I awoke, and found myself outside the garden, with a largesharp knife upon my stomach, and an iron dirhem. and Itrembled with fear, and took them with me and returned to the house.I found my cousin saying, I am in this house wretched and sorrowful,with no relief but weeping. And as I entered, I fell down prostrate,throwing the knife and dirhem from my hand, and fainted. and when Irecovered, I acquainted her with that which had befallen me, and said toher, I shall not attain my desire. Her grief increased at witnessing myweeping and my excessive passion, and she said to me, I have failed ofsuccess in cautioning thee against sleeping. for thou wouldst not attendto my advice: my words profit thee nothing. But I replied, I conjurethee by Allah that thou explain to me the meaning of the knife and theiron dirhem. So she said, As to the dirhem, she alluded by it to herright eye, and intimated that she swore by it, and said,By the Lord of all creatures, and by my right eye, if thoucome again and sleep I will assuredly slaughter thee with this knife! Ifear for thee, therefore, O son of my uncle, from her malice. and myheart is full of grief on thine account, and I cannot talk. If, then,thou art confident in thyself that, if thou return to her, thou wilt notsleep, return to her, and beware of sleeping, and so shalt thou attainthy desire. but if thou know that, shouldst thou go to her again, thouwilt sleep as usual, and so go to her and sleep, she will slaughterthee. What then, said I, is to be done, O daughter of my uncle? Iconjure thee by Allah to help me in this affliction. She replied, On myhead and my eye: and if thou attend to my words and comply with mydirections thou wilt accomplish thy desire. I said, I will do so. Andshe rejoined, When the time of departure cometh I will tell thee. Shethen pressed me to her bosom, and laid me on the bed, and continuedgently kneading my limbs until slumber overcame me, and I sank intosleep. and she took a fan, and, seating herself at myhead, fanned my face until the close of day, when she roused me. and onmy awaking, I found her at my head with the fan in her hand, and weepingso that her tears had wetted her clothes. But when she saw me that Ihad awoke, she wiped away her tears, and brought me some food. Irefrained from it. but she said to me, Did I not tell thee that thoumust attend to my directions? Eat, therefore. So I ate, and would notoppose her. and she proceeded to put the food into my mouth, while Ichewed it, until my stomach was full. She then gave me to drink someinfusion of jujubes with sugar, and washed my hands, anddried them with a handkerchief, and sprinkled some rose water upon me.after which I sat with her, in healthy frame. and when the night becamedark, she put on me my clothes, and said, O son of my uncle, watch allnight, and sleep not. for she will not come to thee this night untilnear its close. and, if it be the will of God, thou shalt meet her thisnight. but forget not my charge. Then she wept, and my heart was painedfor her, on account of her excessive weeping. and I said to her, What isthe charge which thou gavest me? She answered, When thou departest fromher, repeat to her the verse before mentioned.I then went forth from her full of joy, and proceeded to the garden, andwent up to the ma'ad, satiated with food. I remained sleepless aquarter of the night, and the night seemed as long to me as though itwere a year. and I continued watching until two thirds of it had passed,and the cocks crew, and I became violently hungry from watching: so Iwent up to the table, and ate until I was satisfied. and my head becameheavy, and I desired to sleep. but suddenly I heard a noise in thedistance. whereupon I arose, and washed my hands and mouth, and rousedmyself. and soon after, she came. She was accompanied by ten femaleslaves, and she appeared among them like the full moon among theplanets: she was attired in a garment of green satin embroidered withred gold. and when she saw me, she laughed, and said, How is it thatthou hast remained awake, and that sleep hath not overcome thee? Nowthat thou hast passed the night sleepless I am convinced that thou art alover. for among the characteristics of lovers is the watching by nightin the resolute endurance of desire. She then turned towards her femaleslaves, and made a sign to them. whereupon they departed from her. andshe approached me, and pressed me to her bosom, and kissed me, and weconversed together until the morning, when I desired to depart. but sheheld me, and said to me, Stop, that I may acquaint thee with something,and give thee a charge. So I stopped. and she unfolded a handkerchief,and, taking forth from it this piece of linen, spread it open beforeme. and I found in it the design of the gazelles, as thou seest, and Iadmired it exceedingly, and took it. after which I made a promise to herthat I would pay her a visit every night in that garden, and departedfrom her, full of joy. but in my joy I forgot the verse which my cousinhad charged me to repeat. And when she gave me the piece of linencontaining the design of the gazelles, she said to me, This is the workof my sister. And what, said I, is the name of thy sister? Sheanswered, Her name is Noor el Huda: and do thou take careof this piece of linen.After this, when I had taken leave of her and departed, full of joy, Ireturned and went in to my cousin, and found her lying down, and whenshe saw me she rose, her tears dropping, and approached me, and, kissingmy bosom, said, Hast thou recited the verse as I charged thee? Ianswered, I forgot it. and nothing drove it from my mind but the designof these gazelles. And I threw down the piece of linen before her. Shearose, and then seated herself again, and, in her impatience, shedtears, and said, O son of my uncle, make a present to me of this pieceof linen. So I gave it her, and she took it and spread it open, and sawwhat was in it. And when the time of my departure came, she said, Go,and may safety attend thee. but when thou retirest from her, recite toher the verse that I taught thee before, and which thou didstforget. Repeat it to me, said I. And she did so.I then repaired to the garden, and entered the ma'ad. I found thedamsel waiting for me, and when she beheld me she arose and kissed meand seated me, and we ate and drank, and in the morning I repeated toher the verse, which was this: O ye lovers, by Allah, inform me, how a youth should act whenhis love is intense.And when she heard it, her eyes filled with tears, and thus shereplied: He should hide his love, and conceal his secret, and be patientunder every event, and submissive.I committed this to memory, and, glad at having done what my cousindesired, went forth and returned to her. I found her lying down, with mymother, at her head, weeping for her unhappy state. and when I went into her, my mother said to me, Perdition to such a cousin as thou! Howcanst thou leave the daughter of thine uncle indisposed and not inquirerespecting her disease? But my cousin, on beholding me, raised herhead, and sat up, and said to me, O 'Azeez, hast thou repeated to herthe verse that I taught thee? I answered, Yes: and when she heard it,she wept, and recited to me another verse, which I retain in mymemory. Let me hear it, said my cousin. And when I had repeated it toher she wept violently, and recited this other verse: He hath sought to attain a becoming patience. but found noughtsave a heart pining with desire.She then said to me, When thou goest to her as usual, repeat to her thisverse which thou hast heard. I replied, I hear and obey.So I went to the garden according to my custom, and when I was about toreturn, I recited to the damsel that verse. and when she heard it, tearspoured from her eyes, and she replied, Then, if he have not patience to conceal his secret, I know nothingbetter for him than death.Retaining this in my memory, I returned to the house. and when I went into my cousin, I found her fallen down in a fit, and my mother sitting ather head. and when my cousin heard my voice, she opened her eyes, andsaid, O 'Azeez, hast thou repeated to her the verse? I answered, Yes:and when she heard it, she wept, and recited to me this other verse. AndI repeated it to her. and as soon as she heard it she fainted again,and, on her recovering, recited another verse, which was this: We hear and obey, and we die. then convey my salutation to the personwho hath prevented our union.At the approach of the following night I went again to the garden asusual, and found the damsel expecting me. and we ate and drank. and inthe morning, when I was about to depart, I repeated to her what mycousin had said. whereupon she uttered a loud cry, and was agitated, andexclaimed, By Allah, she who uttered this verse hath died! She thenwept, and said to me, Wo to thee! Is not she who uttered this verserelated to thee? I answered, She is the daughter of my paternaluncle. Thou liest, replied she: by Allah, if she were the daughter ofthy uncle thou hadst borne her the same love that she bore thee. Thouart he who hath destroyed her, and may God destroy thee in like manner!By Allah, if thou hadst told me of thy having a cousin, I had notadmitted thee into my favour. Verily, said I, she is my cousin, and sheexplained to me the signs that thou madest me, and it was she who taughtme how to proceed with thee: I had not obtained access to thee butthrough her good management. And did she know of our affair? said she.I answered, Yes. May Allah, she exclaimed, cause thee to bewail thyyouth, as thou hast caused her to bewail hers! She then said to me, Goand see her.I departed, therefore, troubled in mind, and proceeded until I came toour street, when I heard a wailing, and, asking respecting it, wasanswered, We found 'Azeezeh lying behind the door, dead. I entered thehouse, and when my mother beheld me, she exclaimed, The crime ofdestroying her is on thy neck, and may God not pardon thee her blood!Perdition to such a cousin as thou! My father then came, and weprepared her body for interment, and performed the funeral ceremonies,and buried her. and we caused recitations of the whole of the ur an tobe performed at her tomb, and remained there three days, after which Ireturned to the house, sorrowing for her. And my mother addressed me,and said, I desire to know what thou didst to her, so that thou brokesther heart. I asked her continually, O my son, respecting the cause ofher disorder. but she would not acquaint me with it. I conjure thee,therefore, by Allah, that thou inform me what thou didst unto her, tocause her death. I replied, I did nothing. But she said, May God avengeher upon thee! for she mentioned to me nothing, but concealed the truthof her case until she died, still preserving her affection for thee. andwhen she died I was with her, and she opened her eyes, and said to me, Owife of my uncle, may God hold thy son guiltless of my blood, and notpunish him for that which he hath done unto me. and now God transportethme from the perishable world to the world of eternity. And I replied, Omy daughter, may God preserve thee, and preserve thy youth! And I askedher respecting the cause of her disorder: but she answered not. Then shesmiled, and said, O wife of my uncle, if thy son desire to go to theplace which he is accustomed to frequent, tell him to repeat these twophrases on departing from it: Fidelity is good, and treachery isbase: and this I desire in my compassion for him, that I may shew himcompassion in my life and after my death. She then gave me something forthee, and took an oath of me that I would not give it to thee until Ishould see thee weeping for her and lamenting: this thing I have, andwhen I see thee in the state that she hath described I will give it tothee. I said to her, Shew it me. But she would not.I then gave myself up to my pleasures, and thought not of the death ofmy cousin. for I was unsettled in mind, and wished that I were passingthe whole of every night and day with my beloved. and scarcely had thenext night approached when I repaired again to the garden. I found thedamsel sitting there, burning with impatience to see me. and as soon asshe beheld me, she hastened to me and clung to my neck, and asked merespecting my cousin. I answered her, She is dead, and we have performedzikrs and recitations of the ur an for her, and fournights have passed since her death, and this is the fifth. When sheheard this, she cried out and wept, and said, Did I not tell thee thatthou hadst killed her? Hadst thou informed me of her, before her death,I had requited her for the kindness that she hath shewn me. for she hathbeen of service to me in giving thee access to me: had it not been forher, I should not have had an interview with thee, and I fear thou wiltfall into a calamity on account of her disaster. I replied, Sheacquitted me before her death. And I related to her what my mother hadtold me. upon which she exclaimed, By Allah, I conjure thee, when thougoest to thy mother, learn what it is that she hath. My mother, said I,told me, Thy cousin, before she died, charged me saying, If thy sondesire to go to the place which he is accustomed to frequent, tell himto repeat these two phrases: Fidelity is good, and treachery isbase. And when the damsel heard this, she exclaimed, The mercy of God(whose name be exalted!) be upon her, for she hath saved thee from me: Iwas meditating an injury to thee. but now I will not hurt thee nortrouble thee. And I wondered at this, and said to her, What didst thoupurpose before this to do to me, after mutual love had taken placebetween us? She answered, Thou art devoted to me. but thou art young,and thy mind is free from deceit, and thou knowest not our malice norour deceit: were she still in the bonds of life, she would assist thee.for she is the cause of thy safety, and hath delivered thee fromdestruction: and now I charge thee that thou speak not with any female,nor answer any of our sex, young or old. Beware, beware. for thou artignorant of the deceit of women, and their malice: she who used tointerpret the signs to thee is dead. and I fear for thee lest thou fallinto a calamity and find none to deliver thee from it after the death ofthy cousin. O my sorrow for the daughter of thy uncle! Would that I hadknown her before her death, that I might have requited her for thekindness that she hath done me! The mercy of God (whose name beexalted!) be upon her, for she concealed her secret, and revealed notwhat she felt. and but for her, thou wouldst never have had access tome. And now I have a service to demand of thee. What is it? said I. Sheanswered, That thou conduct me to her tomb, that I may visit her at hergrave, and inscribe some verses upon it. I replied, To morrow, if it bethe will of God, whose name be exalted! So I remained with her thatnight, and frequently she said to me, Would that thou hadst told me ofthy cousin before her death! And I asked her, What is the meaning ofthese words which she said Fidelity is good, and treachery is base? Butshe answered me not.In the morning, therefore, she arose, and, taking a purse containingsome pieces of gold, said to me, Arise, and shew me the tomb, that I mayvisit it, and write upon it some verses, and build over it a cupola, andpray for mercy upon her, and bestow these pieces of gold in alms for hersoul. I replied, I hear and obey. And I walked before her, and shefollowed me, and employed herself in giving alms on the way as she went,and every time that she did so she said, This is an alms for the soul of'Azeezeh, who concealed her secret until she drank the cup of death, andrevealed not her love. Thus she continued to give of the contents ofthe purse, and to say, For the soul of 'Azeezeh, until we arrived atthe tomb, and the contents of the purse were exhausted. and when shebeheld the tomb, she threw herself upon it, and wept violently. She thentook forth a pointed instrument of steel, and a small mallet, andengraved upon the stone at the head of the tomb, in small characters,these verses: I passed by an undistinguished tomb in the midst of a garden,with seven anemones upon it.And I said, Whose tomb is this? The soil answered, Be respectful,for this is the resting place of a lover.So I said, God keep thee, O victim of love, and lodge theein the highest stage of Paradise!How miserable are lovers among the creation, when even their tombsare covered with vile dust!Were I able , I would make of thee a garden, and water itwith my streaming tears!She then again wept violently, and arose, and I arose with her. andafter we had returned to the garden, she said to me, I conjure thee byAllah that thou never forsake me. And I replied, I hear and obey. So Iresumed my visits to her as before, and she treated me with kindness andhonour, and used to ask me respecting the two phrases which my cousin'Azeezeh had mentioned to my mother, and I repeated them to her. Thus Iremained, eating and drinking, and enjoying her conversation, andattiring myself in changes of delicate clothing, until I became stoutand fat, and I experienced neither anxiety nor grief nor sorrow, andforgot my cousin.I continued drowned in these pleasures for a whole year. and at thecommencement of the new year, I entered the bath, and refreshed myself,and put on a handsome suit. and after I had gone forth from the bath, Idrank a cup of wine, and smelt the odours of my clothes, which wererichly perfumed with various scents. My heart was unoppressed bycalamities or misfortunes. and when the hour of nightfall came, Idesired to repair to the damsel. but I was intoxicated, and knew not myway. and, in going to her, intoxication led me aside into a by streetcalled the street of the Naeeb: and as I was proceedingalong it, lo, an old woman came, with a lighted candle in one of herhands, and in her other hand a folded letter. I advanced towards her,and she, with weeping eye, said to me, O my son, art thou able to read?I answered her, Yes, my old aunt. And she said, Take this letter, andread it to me. And she handed me the letter. so I took it from her andopened it, and read to her its contents, informing her that it was aletter from the absent, with salutations to the beloved. And when sheheard this, she rejoiced at the good news, and ejaculated a prayer forme, saying, May God dispel thine anxiety as thou hast dispelled mine!She then took the letter, and proceeded a few steps. but presently shereturned to me, and, kissing my hand, said, O my lord, may God (whosename be exalted!) give thee enjoyment of thy youth, and not disgracethee. I beg that thou wilt walk with me a few paces, to that door. for Ihave told them what thou hast read to me of the letter, and they do notbelieve me: come with me, therefore, two steps, and read to them theletter outside the door, and accept my prayer for thee. And what, saidI, is the history of this letter? She answered, O my son, this letterhath come from my son, who hath been absent from us for the space of tenyears. for he journeyed with merchandise, and hath remained abroadduring that period, and we relinquished all hope of his return, thinkingthat he was dead: then came to us this letter from him. and he hath asister who hath wept for him during his absence night and day. and Itold her that he was in health and prosperity. but she believed me not,and said to me, Thou must bring me a person to read this letter and toacquaint me with its contents, that my heart may be set at ease and mymind comforted. Thou knowest, O my son, that the loving is prepossessedwith evil anticipations: favour me, therefore, by reading this letterwhile thou shalt stand outside the curtain, and his sister shall hear itwithin the door, that the recompense of him who accomplisheth a want fora Muslim, and dispelleth from his mind a trouble, may be thine: for theApostle of God (may God bless and save him!) hath said, Whoso dispellethfrom the mind of a sorrowful person one of the troubles of this world,God will dispel from his mind one of the troubles of the world tocome: and in another tradition, Whoso dispelleth from the mind of hisbrother one of the troubles of this world, God will dispel from his mindseventy two of the troubles of the day of resurrection: and now I havedesired thee, do not disappoint me. So I replied, I hear and obey:proceed before me.She therefore walked before me, and I followed her a little way, untilshe arrived at a great door overlaid with copper. and she stopped atthis door, and called out in Persian, and immediately a damselapproached, with light and nimble step. Her trousers were tucked up toher knees, and I beheld a pair of legs that confounded the mind and theeye by their beauty: they were like two columns of alabaster, andornamented with anklets of gold set with jewels. The skirts of her outerclothes were tucked up under her arms, and her sleeves were turned upfrom her arms, and I looked at her white wrists, and upon them were twopairs of bracelets: in her ears were two ear rings of pearls. and uponher neck was a necklace of costly jewels. and on her head, akoofeeyeh, quite new, adorned with precious gems. She hadtucked the skirt of her inner tunic within the band of her trousers, andappeared as though she had been employed in some active work. And whenshe beheld me, she said, with an eloquent and sweet tongue that I hadnever heard surpassed in sweetness, O my mother, is this he who hathcome to read the letter? She answered, Yes. And the damsel stretchedforth her hand to me with the letter. There was, between her and thedoor, a distance of about half a rod. and I extended myhand to take the letter from her, and put my head and shoulders withinthe door to draw near to her. but before I knew what she was about todo, the old woman placed her head against my back, and pushed meforward, while my hand was holding the letter, and I looked around, andfound myself in the midst of the house. that is, within the vestibule.The old woman entered more quickly than the blinding lightning, and hadnothing to do but to shut the door: and when the damsel beheld me withinthe vestibule, she approached me, and pressed me to her bosom, and,taking me by the hand, unable to extricate myself from her grasp, ledme, preceded by the old woman with the lighted candle, until she hadpassed through seven vestibules. after which she conducted me into alarge saloon, with four leewans, in which a horseman mightplay at goff. She then seated me, and said to me, Openthine eye. And I did so, giddy from the violence that I had experienced,and saw that the whole construction of the saloon was of the mostbeautiful alabaster, and all its furniture, including the cushions andmattresses, of brocade. In it were also two benches of brass, and acouch of red gold set with pearls and jewels, not suitable to any but aKing like thee.After this, she said to me, O 'Azeez, which of the two states is themore agreeable to thee, life or death? I answered her, Life. And shesaid, Then if life is more agreeable to thee, marry me. I dislike,I replied, marrying such a person as thou. She rejoined, if thoumarry me, thou wilt be secure from the daughter of the craftyDeleeleh. And who, said I, is the daughter of the craftyDeleeleh? She laughed, and answered, How is it that thou knowest hernot, when thou hast now been in her company a year and four months? MayAllah (whose name be exalted!) destroy her. Verily there existeth notany one more treacherous than she. How many persons hath she killedbefore thee, and what deeds hath she done! And how hast thou escapedfrom her, without her killing or troubling thee, when thou hast been inher company all this time? When I heard her words I wondered extremely,and said to her, O my mistress, who acquainted thee with her? Sheanswered, I know her as the age knoweth its calamities. but I desirethat thou inform me of all that thou hast experienced from her, that Imay know the cause of thy safety from her. So I related to her all thathad happened to me with her and with my cousin 'Azeezeh. and sheexclaimed, Allah have mercy upon her! and her eyes shed tears, and shestruck her hands together, when she heard of the death of my cousin'Azeezeh, and said, May Allah compensate thee abundantly for the loss ofher, O 'Azeez. for she hath been the cause of thy safety from thedaughter of the crafty Deleeleh. and had it not been for her, thou hadstperished. After this, she clapped her hands, and said, Omy mother, bring in those who are with thee. And lo, the old womanapproached with four lawful witnesses. and she lighted four candles. andwhen the witnesses entered, they saluted me, and seated themselves. andthe damsel covered herself with an izar, and appointed one of thewitnesses to be her deputy in making her contract. So they performed themarriage contract, and she affirmed of herself that she had received thewhole of the dowry, both the portion usually paid in advance and thearrears, and that she was indebted to me in the sum of ten thousandpieces of silver. after which she gave to the witnesses their fees, andthey departed.On the following day, I desired to go out. but she approached melaughing, and said, Dost thou think that going out from the bath is likeentering it? I imagine thou thinkest me to be like thedaughter of the crafty Deleeleh. Beware of entertaining such an idea.Thou art no other than my husband, according to the ur an and theSunneh. and if thou hast been intoxicated, return to thy reason. Verilythis house in which thou art is not opened but on one day in every year.Go to the street door and look. So I went and looked, and found itclosed and nailed, and returned and told her so. and she said to me, O'Azeez, we have of flour and grain and fruits and pomegranates and sugarand meat and sheep and fowls and other provisions what will suffice usfor many years, and from this last night our door will not be openeduntil after a year and I know that thou wilt not behold thyself outsidethis house until after a year hath expired. Upon this I exclaimed, Thereis no strength nor power but in God! And she laughed, and I laughedalso, and complied with her orders, and remained with her until thetwelve months of the year had expired, when I was blest with a son byher. And on the first day of the following year, I heard the opening ofthe door, and lo, men came in with kaaks and flour andsugar. and I desired to go out. but she said to me, Wait untilnightfall, and as thou camest in, so go forth. I therefore waited untilthat hour, and was on the point of going out, in fear and trembling,when she said to me, By Allah, I will not let thee go until I have madethee swear to me that thou wilt return this night before the door isclosed. So I promised her to do it. and she made me swear by bindingoaths upon the sword and the ur an, and by the oath of divorce, that Iwould return to her.I then went forth from her, and repaired to the garden. I found it openas usual, and was angry, saying within myself, I have been absent fromthis place a whole year, and, coming unawares, have found it open asusual. I wonder if the damsel be still there as heretofore, and I mustenter and see before I go to my mother. It was then nightfall, and Ientered the garden, and, proceeding to the ma'ad, found the daughter ofthe crafty Deleeleh sitting with her head upon her knee and her handupon her cheek. Her complexion was changed, and her eyes were sunk, andwhen she beheld me she exclaimed, Praise be to God for thy safety! andshe endeavoured to rise, but fell down through her joy. I was ashamed atseeing her, and hung down my head. but presently I advanced to her andkissed her, and said to her, How didst thou know that I was coming tothee at this time? She answered, I knew it not. By Allah, for a year Ihave not tasted sleep. but have sat up every night expecting thee, andin this state have I been from the day when thou wentest forth from meand I gave thee the new suit of clothing and thou promisedst me thatthou wouldst return to me. I remained expecting thee, and thou camestnot the first night, nor the second, nor the third: so I still waited inexpectation of thy coming. for such is the way of the lover: and I wouldnow that thou tell me what hath been the cause of thine absence from methis year. I therefore told her. and when she knew that I had married,her countenance became pale. I then said to her, I have come to theethis night, but must go before the morning. But she exclaimed, Is it notenough for her to have married thee, and to have employed this stratagemagainst thee, and imprisoned thee with her a whole year, that she hathmade thee swear by the oath of divorce that thou wilt return to herbefore the morning, and will not allow thee to divert thyself with thymother nor with me, and cannot endure thy passing one night with eitherof us? What then must be the state of her from whom thou hast beenabsent a whole year, though I knew thee before she did! But may Allahhave mercy on 'Azeezeh. for she suffered what none other hath suffered,and endured with patience that of which none else hath endured the like,and died through thy oppression. It was she who protected thee from me.I thought that thou wouldst return, and gave thee liberty, though I wasable to imprison thee, and to destroy thee.Having thus said, she wept, and became enraged, and looked at me withthe eye of anger. and when I beheld her in this state, the muscles of myside quivered, and I feared her, and became as the bean upon the fire.She then cried out, and suddenly ten female slaves came to me, and threwme upon the floor. and when I fell under their hands, she arose, and,taking a knife, said, I will slaughter thee as goats are slaughtered,and this shall be thy least recompense for that which thou hast doneunto thy cousin. When I beheld myself, therefore, beneath her femaleslaves, and my cheek was soiled with the dust, and I saw the knife inher hand, I looked upon death as inevitable. I implored her mercy. butshe only increased in hardness, and ordered the female slaves to bind myhands behind me. and they did so, and, throwing me upon my back, seatedthemselves upon my body, and held my head. Then two of them arose andtook hold of my toes, and two others seated themselves upon my legs.after which, their mistress arose, with two others of them, and sheordered them to beat me. whereupon they beat me until I fainted, and myvoice became inaudible. and when I recovered, I said within myself,Verily my being slaughtered were easier to me than this beating! Ibethought myself of the words of my cousin, when she said, May God avertfrom thee her wickedness! and I cried out and wept until my voicefailed. She then sharpened the knife, and said to the female slaves,Uncover his throat. But God inspired me to repeat the two phrases whichmy cousin had charged me to utter, namely, Fidelity is good, andtreachery is base. and when she heard this, she cried out and said,Allah have mercy upon thee, O 'Azeezeh! Would that thy youth had beenspared! Thou hast profited thy cousin during thy life and after thydeath! Then addressing me, she added, By Allah, thou hast saved thylife from me by means of these two phrases. but I must cause thee tobear a mark of my resentment. So saying, she inflicted upon me a cruelwound, and I fainted. but when I recovered, the blood had stopped, andshe gave me to drink a cup of wine, and spurned me with her foot.I rose. but was unable at first to walk: presently, however, I proceededby little and little until I arrived at the door of my wife's house. Ifound it open, and threw myself within it, in a state of distraction.and my wife came and took me up and conveyed me to the saloon, where Ifell into a deep sleep. but when I awoke, I found myself laid at thegate of the garden.In anguish I rose, and went to my home, and, entering the house, foundmy mother weeping for me, and exclaiming, Would that I knew, O my son,in what land thou art! So I approached her, and threw myself upon her,and when she beheld me, she saw that I was unwell. Yellowness andblackness were mingled upon my face. and I remembered my cousin, and thekindness she had shewn me, and was convinced that she loved me. I weptfor her, and my mother also wept, and then said to me, O my son, thyfather is dead. And upon this, my rage increased, and I wept until Ibecame insensible. and when I recovered, I looked towards the placewhere my cousin was accustomed to sit, and wept again till I faintedfrom the violence of my lamentation. I ceased not to weep and wail untilmidnight, when my mother said to me, Thy father hath been dead ten days.But I replied, I think of no one but my cousin. for I deserve what hathhappened to me, because I neglected her when she loved me. She asked me,therefore, And what hath happened to thee? So I related to her thatwhich had befallen me. to which she replied, Praise be to God that thishappened to thee and that she did not slaughter thee! She then appliedremedies to my wound until I recovered, and regained my usual strength.and she said to me, O my son, I will now produce to thee the depositewith which thy cousin intrusted me. for it is thine, and she made meswear that I would not produce it to thee until I saw that thourememberedst her and mournedst for her, and that thine affections foranother were severed. and now I hope that I find in thee thesedispositions. She therefore arose, and, opening a chest, took forth fromit this piece of linen containing the design of the gazelles, which Ihad originally given to her. and when I took it, I found written upon itsome verses complaining of her unrequited love for me, and there fellfrom it a paper containing some words of consolation andcounsel.As soon as I had read and understood this paper, I wept again, and mymother did the same, and I continued looking at it and weeping until theapproach of night. and in this state I remained for the space of a year.after which, some merchants of my city, the same whom I am accompanyingin this caravan, prepared for a journey. and my mother suggested to methat I should fit myself out and go with them, saying to me, Perhaps thejourney will dispel this sorrow which thou sufferest, and thou wilt beabsent a year, or two years, or three, until the caravan returneth, andthy heart may become dilated. Thus she continued to persuade me, so thatI prepared some merchandise, and journeyed with them. but my tears havenot dried up during my travels. for at every station where we halt Ispread this piece of linen before me, and look at this design, and thinkof my cousin, and weep for her as thou seest, since she loved meexcessively, and died through my unkindness. I doing nothing but evil toher, while she did nothing to me but what was good. When the merchantsreturn from their journey, I shall return with them, and the period ofmy absence will be a complete year. but I still suffer increasingsorrow. and my sorrow hath been only augmented in consequence of mypassing by the Islands of Camphor and the Castle of Crystal.These Islands are seven in number, and the sovereign of them is a Kingnamed Shah Zeman.and it was told me that it was she who worked the designs of thegazelles, and that this design which is in my possession was one of herwork. and when I knew this, I became excessively desirous of seeing her:so, when the caravan entered her country, I went forth and wanderedabout the gardens, which contained a profusion of trees. Thesuperintendent of the gardens was a sheykh advanced in age. and I saidto him, O sheykh, to whom doth this garden belong? He answered, To theKing's daughter, the lady Dunya, and we are beneath her palace. and ifthou desire to amuse thyself, open the private door, and take a view ofthe garden and smell the odours of the flowers. So I said to him, Havethe kindness to allow me to sit in this garden until she passeth by,that I may enjoy a glance at her. The sheykh replied, There will be noharm in thy doing so. When he said this, therefore, I gave him somemoney, saying to him, Buy for us something to eat. And he rejoiced atreceiving the money, and, opening the door, conducted me within. and weproceeded until we came to a pleasant spot, where he brought me somedelicate fruits, and said to me, Sit here while I go and return to thee.And he left me and departed, and, after he had been absent a while,returned bringing a roasted lamb. and we ate until we were satisfied, myheart longing to behold the lady, and while we were sitting, lo, thedoor opened. whereupon he said to me, Rise, and conceal thyself. So Irose, and hid myself. and a black eunuch put forth his head from thedoor, and said, O sheykh, is any one with thee? He answered, No. Thenclose the door, said the eunuch. The sheykh, therefore, closed the doorof the garden. and lo, the lady Dunya came forth. When I beheld her, Ithought that the moon had descended upon the earth. my mind wasconfounded, and I desired her as the thirsty longeth for water. andafter a while, she closed the door and departed. I then went forth fromthe garden, and repaired to my lodging, knowing that I could not obtainaccess to her. and when my companions prepared for departure, I alsoprepared myself, and travelled with them towards thy city. and on ourarrival here, we met with thee. This is my story, and this is what hathhappened unto me. and peace be on thee.