'Efreet contending together, and, entering the house, seated himself inthe bride chamber. and lo, the bride approached, accompanied by an oldwoman, who stopped at the door of the chamber, and said, OAboo Shihab, rise, and take thy bride. and I commend thee tothe care of Allah. Then the old woman went away, and the bride, whosename was Sitt el osn, advanced to the upper end of thechamber. Her heart was broken, and she said within herself, By Allah, Iwill not suffer him to caress me though my spirit depart from me! Butwhen she had proceeded to the upper end of the chamber, she beheldBedr ed Deen, and said, My beloved, until this hour art thou remaining?I had said within myself, perhaps thou and the humpbacked groom are toshare me between you. What, said he, should give the groom access tothee, and wherefore should he be my partner in the possession ofthee? Who, then, she asked, is my husband? Thou or he? O my mistress,answered Bedr ed Deen, we did not this for any other purpose than tomake a jest of him, and that we might laugh at him. for when thetire women and the singing women and thy family beheld thine admirablebeauty, they feared for us the effect of the eye, and thy father hiredhim for ten pieces of gold, in order that he might divert from us theeye. and now he hath departed. When Sitt el osn heard these words ofBedr ed Deen, she smiled, and uttered a gentle laugh, and said, ByAllah, thou hast extinguished my fire! Take me then, I conjure thee, andpress me to thy bosom. And they embraced each other.Not long after this, the 'Efreet said to the Jinneeyeh, Arise, and placethyself beneath the youth, and let us convey him back, lest the morningovertake us. for the time is near. So she advanced towards him, and,placing herself beneath his skirt, as he lay asleep, took him up, andflew away with him, in the state in which she found him, clad only inhis shirt, and pursued her flight with the 'Efreet by her side. But Godgave permission to some angels to cast at the 'Efreet a shooting star offire, and he was burnt. The Jinneeyeh, however, escaped unhurt, anddeposited Bedr ed Deen in the place over which the shooting star hadburnt the 'Efreet. She would not pass beyond it, fearing for his safety.and as destiny had appointed, this place was Damascus: so she placed himby one of the gates of this city, and flew away.When daylight therefore came, and the gates were opened, the people,coming forth, beheld a beautiful youth clad in his shirt, and with acotton skull cap without a turban. In consequence of his having been solong wakeful, he was now immersed in sleep. and when the people saw him,some said, Would that he had waited till he had put on hisclothes! another said, Objects of pity are the children of men ofcondition! Probably this youth hath just come forth from hisdrinking place, on account of some business, and intoxication hathovercome him, and he hath wandered from the place to which he would gountil he arrived at the gate of the city, and, finding it locked, hathslept here. They had expressed various opinions respecting him, andwere wondering at his case, when Bedr ed Deen awoke. Perceiving that hewas at the gate of a city, and surrounded by men, he was astonished, andsaid, Where am I, O good people. and what is the cause of yourassembling around me, and what hath befallen me among you? Theyanswered, We saw thee at the call to morning prayer lying at this gateasleep. and we know nothing more of thy case. Where wast thou sleepingthis last night? By Allah, O people, he replied, I was sleeping thislast night in Cairo. On hearing this, one of them said, Dost thou eatasheesh? Another said, Thou art mad. How couldst thou bepassing the night in Cairo, and be sleeping in the morning at the cityof Damascus? He said to them, By Allah, O good people, I will tell youno falsehood: I was last night in the land of Egypt, and the day beforeI was at El Barah. One of them said, This is a wonderful thing! Anothersaid, This youth is mad. And they clapped their hands at him, and,conversing together, said, Alas, for his youth! By Allah, there is nodenying his madness! They then said to him, Return to thy reason. Buthe replied, I was yesterday a bridegroom in the land of Egypt. Probablythou hast dreamt, said they, and hast seen this of which thou speakestin thy sleep. And asan was confounded, and said, By Allah, this was nota dream: and where is the humpbacked groom who was sitting with us, andthe purse of gold that I had? And where are my clothes and mydrawers? He then rose, and entered the city, and proceeded through itsgreat thoroughfare streets and market streets. and the people crowdedround him and paraded him: so he entered the shop of a cook. Now thiscook was a robber, whom God had caused to repent of hisunlawful actions, and he had opened a cook's shop. and all the people ofDamascus feared him on account of his boldness. therefore, when they sawthat the youth had entered this shop, they left him, being afraid.When the cook beheld asan Bedr ed Deen, and observed his beauty andcomeliness, love for him entered his heart, and he said to him, Whenceart thou, O young man? Relate to me thy story. for thou art becomedearer to me than my soul. So he related to him all that had happened,from beginning to end: and the cook said to him, O my masterBedr ed Deen, know that this is a wonderful event and an extraordinarystory. but, O my son, conceal thy case until God dispel thy trouble, andremain with me in this place. and as I have not a son, I will adopt theeas such. Bedr ed Deen replied, Let it be as thou desirest, O uncle. Andimmediately the cook went out to the mart, and bought for Bedr ed Deencostly clothes, and put them on him: he then went to the aee, and madea declaration that he was his adopted son: so asanBedr ed Deen became known throughout the city of Damascus as the son ofthe cook. and he sat with him in the shop to receive the money, and inthis situation he remained.Now as to Sitt el osn, when daybreak came and she awoke, she found notasan Bedr ed Deen remaining with her, and, imagining that he would soonreturn, she sat a while expecting him. and lo, her father came in toher, troubled at that which had befallen him from the Sulan, and at hishaving married his daughter by force to one of his servants, thehumpbacked groom. and he said within himself, I will kill this girl ifshe have suffered the wretch to caress her. So he advanced to thebride chamber, and, stopping at the door, said, O Sitt el osn! Sheanswered, Well, O my master! and came forth to him, walking with avacillating gait, through joy, and kissed the ground before him. and hercountenance beamed with increased splendour in consequence of her unionwith that gazelle. When her father, therefore, saw her in this state, heexclaimed to her, O thou base creature! art thou delighted with thisgroom? On hearing these words of her father, Sitt el osn smiled, andreplied, By Allah, it is enough that thou hast done, and that the peoplelaugh at me, and put me on an equality with this groom, who is not, inmy estimation, of the value of a paring of one of my finger nails. butas to my husband by Allah, I never in the course of my life passed anight more delightful than that which I have just passed in his company:therefore jest not with me by mentioning that humpback. When her fatherheard what she said he was filled with rage. his eyes glared so thatlittle appeared of them but the white, and he said to her, Wo to thee!What are these words that thou sayest? Verily the humpbacked groom hathpassed the night with thee! I conjure thee by Allah, she rejoined, thatthou mention him not. May Allah reject him, and reject his father!Continue not then to mock me by mentioning him. for the groom was onlyhired for ten pieces of gold, and he took his hire and departed. and Icame and entered the bride chamber, and beheld my husband seated, afterthe singing women had displayed me before him. and he threw them redgold until he had enriched the poor who were present. I have reclinedupon the bosom of my gentle hearted husband, with the black eyes and thejoined eyebrows. When her father heard this, the light became darknessbefore his face, and he exclaimed to her, O thou abandoned one! What isthis that thou sayest? Where is thy reason? O my father, she replied,thou hast broken my heart in pieces! Wherefore dost thou pay noattention? This of whom I spake is my husband, and he hath retired tohis private closet.So her father went thither, in a state of astonishment, and, enteringthe closet, found the humpbacked groom with his head upon the slabs andhis feet turned upwards. and the Wezeer was confounded at the sight, andsaid, Is not this the humpback? and he spoke to him. but the humpbackreturned no answer, thinking that it was the 'Efreet who addressed him.The Wezeer, therefore, cried out at him with a loud voice, and said tohim, Speak, or I will cut off thy head with this sword! Upon which thehumpback exclaimed, By Allah, O sheykh of the 'Efreets, from the timethat thou placedst me here I have not raised my head: I conjure theetherefore that thou shew favour to me! The Wezeer, on hearing thehumpback thus address him, said to him, What sayest thou? I am thefather of the bride, and I am not an 'Efreet. Then said the humpback,My life is not in thy hand, nor art thou able to take my soul. so go thyway before he come to thee who hath treated me in this manner. Ye wouldnot marry me to any but the mistress of buffaloes and the mistress of'Efreets! May Allah, then, confound him who married me to her, andconfound him who was the cause of it! Then did the humpbacked groomaddress the Wezeer, the father of the bride, again, saying, Allahconfound him who was the cause of this! Rise, said the Wezeer, anddepart from this place. Am I mad, he replied, that I should go withthee without the permission of the 'Efreet? For he said to me, When thesun shall have risen go thy way. Hath the sun then risen or not? For Icannot depart from my place until the sun hath risen. Upon this theWezeer said to him, Who brought thee to this place? He answered, I camehither yesterday, and a dust rose from the midst of the water, and criedout, and increased in bulk until it became of the size of a buffalo, andsaid to me words that entered my ear. Leave me, therefore, and go. Allahconfound the bride and him who married me to her! The Wezeer thenapproached him, and dragged him forth, and he went out running, doubtingwhether the sun had risen, and went up to the Sulan, and informed himof that which had happened to him with the 'Efreet.But as to the Wezeer, the father of the bride, he returned with hisreason perplexed respecting the case of his daughter, and said to her, Omy daughter, reveal to me thy story. She replied, The elegant personbefore whom I was displayed remained with me. and if thou believe menot, see this is his turban, twisted just as it was, upon thechair, and his drawers are under the bed, and in them issomething wrapped up: I know not what it is. So, when her father heardthis, he entered the bride chamber, and found the turban of asanBedr ed Deen, the son of his brother. and taking it up, he turned itover, and said, This is such a turban as is worn by Wezeers, except thatit is of the Moilee kind. He then observed an amulet sewedin his red cloth cap. and he unsewed it. and he took the drawers, andfound the purse containing the thousand pieces of gold, and, openingthis, he discovered in it a paper, which, when he had read it he saw tobe a copy of the Jew's contract, with the name of asan Bedr ed Deen theson of Noor ed Deen of Cairo. and he found also the thousand pieces ofgold. But when he read the paper he cried aloud and fell down in aswoon. and as soon as he recovered, and understood the case, he wasastonished, and exclaimed, There is no deity but God, who is able to dowhatsoever He willeth! Then said he, O my daughter, knowest thou whohath become thy husband? She answered, No. He is the son of my brother,said he, and the son of thine uncle. and these thousand pieces of goldare thy dowry. Extolled be the perfection of God! Would that I knew howthis event hath happened! Then he opened the amulet that was sewed up,and found in it a paper written by the hand of his brother Noor ed Deenof Cairo, the father of asan Bedr ed Deen: and when he beheld thehand writing of his brother he repeated this couplet: I behold their footsteps, and melt with desire, and pour forthmy tears upon the places they have trodden,Begging of Him who hath afflicted me by their separation,that He will bless me some day by a reunion.So saying, he read the paper, and found in it the date of his marriageto the daughter of the Wezeer of El Barah, and that of his firstintroduction to her, and a record of his age at the time of his death,and the date of the birth of his son asan Bedr ed Deen. and hewondered, and shook with delight. and, comparing what had happened tohis brother with the events that had happened to himself, he found thatthey corresponded exactly: his marriage and the marriage of his brotheragreed in date, and their first visits to their respective wives in likemanner. as also the birth of Bedr ed Deen, the son of his brother, andthe birth of his daughter Sitt el osn. He took the two papers, and,going up with them to the Sulan, he acquainted him with all that hadhappened from the first of the case to the last. and the King wasastonished, and ordered that the case should be immediately recorded.The Wezeer then remained in expectation of the son of his brother. buthe met with no tidings of him: so he said, By Allah, I will do a deedthat none hath done before me: and he took an ink case and a pen, andwrote an inventory of the furniture of the house, describing themoney chest as having been in such a place, and a certain curtain insuch another place, and everything in the house in like manner. and hefolded up the paper, and ordered that all the furniture should be storedup. and he took the turban with its arboosh, and also the farajeeyehand the purse, and kept them himself.After this, in due time, the daughter of the Wezeer gave birth to a sonlike the moon, resembling his father in beauty and symmetry andsplendour and loveliness. They received him from his mother, andblackened the edges of his eyes with kol, and delivered himto the nurses, and named him 'Ajeeb. His day was as a month.and his month, as a year. and when seven years had passedover him, his grandfather committed him to a schoolmaster, whom hecharged to educate him with great care. He continued at the school fouryears, and used to fight with his schoolfellows, and abuse them, sayingto them, Who among you is like me? I am the son of the Wezeer ofCairo. So the boys went together to complain to the monitor of thatwhich they suffered from 'Ajeeb. and the monitor said to them, I willteach you something to say to him when he cometh, and he shall repent ofhis coming to the school. and it is this: to morrow, when he is come,seat yourselves around him, and say to one another, By Allah, none shallplay with us at this game excepting him who shall tell us the name ofhis mother and that of his father. and he who knoweth not the name ofhis mother and that of his father is illegitimate. therefore he shallnot play with us. Accordingly, on the following morning they came to theschool, and 'Ajeeb was there. and the boys surrounded him, and said asthe monitor had directed them, and they all agreed to the proposal. andone said, My name is Majid, and my mother is 'Alawee, and my father is'Ezz ed Deen: then another said after the same manner, and another, andso on, until the turn came to 'Ajeeb. and he said to them, My name is'Ajeeb, and my mother is Sitt el osn, and my father is Shems ed Deen,the Wezeer of Cairo: and they said to him, By Allah, the Wezeer is notthy father. 'Ajeeb replied, the Wezeer is my father indeed: and uponthis the boys laughed at him, and clapped their hands at him, saying,Thou knowest not who is thy father: get away from us, therefore. fornone shall play with us excepting him who knoweth the name of hisfather: and immediately the boys dispersed from around him, and made ajest of him. In consequence of this treatment his heart becamecontracted, and he was almost choked with crying. and the monitor saidto him, Dost thou really consider as thy father him who is thygrandfather, the Wezeer, the father of thy mother Sitt el osn? Thyfather thou knowest not, nor do we know him. for the Sulan married herto the humpbacked groom, and the Jinn came and prevented him: so, ifthou know not thy father, they will regard thee among them asillegitimate. Dost thou not see that the son of the woman who is covetedas a wife knoweth his father? The Wezeer of Cairo is thy grandfather.and as to thy father, we know him not, nor dost thou: return thereforeto thy reason.Upon this, 'Ajeeb went immediately to his mother, Sitt el osn, andcomplained to her, and wept. and his weeping prevented his speaking: andwhen his mother heard his complaint and his crying, her heart wasinflamed for him, and she said to him, O my son, what maketh thee weep?Tell me thy story. So he told her what he had heard from the boys andfrom the monitor, and said to her, O my mother, who is my father? Sheanswered him, Thy father is the Wezeer of Cairo. But he said, He is notmy father: tell me not, therefore, what is false. for the Wezeer is thyfather. not mine: who then is my father? If thou do not tell me truly. Iwill kill myself with this dagger. And when his mother heard themention of his father, she wept at the allusion to the son of her uncle,and remembering the amiable qualities of asan Bedr ed Deen ofEl Barah, and what had happened to herself and him, she recited an odecommencing thus: They excited love in my heart, and departed. and far distant haththeir abode become!Reason forsook me when they withdrew, and sleep and patienceabandoned me.And she wept and cried out, and her son did the same. and lo, the Wezeerentered. His heart burned within him when he beheld their state, and hesaid to them, What causeth you to weep? She acquainted him thereforewith the treatment that her son had experienced from the other boys ofthe school. and he, also, wept, and called to mind what had happened tohis brother and himself and his daughter, and he knew not the mystery ofthe case. Then suddenly he arose, and, going up to the council chamber,presented himself before the King, and related to him the story, begginghis permission to travel eastwards to the city of El Barah, that hemight make inquiries respecting the son of his brother. and requestingalso of the Sulan that he would write letters for him to all thecountries through which he might pass, that, if he found the son of hisbrother in any place, he might take him away. And he wept before theSulan, and the heart of the King was moved with compassion for him, andhe wrote for him letters to all the regions and countries. upon whichthe Wezeer rejoiced, and, having offered up a prayer for the Sulan,took leave of him.He descended immediately and prepared for the journey, and, taking withhim all that he required, together with his daughter and her son 'Ajeeb,travelled the first day and the second and the third, and proceededuntil he arrived at the city of Damascus, and beheld it with its treesand streams celebrated by the poets. He alighted in the open spacecalled Meydan el aba. and, when he had pitched his tents, said to hisservants, We will take rest here two days. So the servants entered thecity to gratify their various desires. one to sell, another to buy, athird to enter the bath, and a fourth to visit the mosque of theBenee Umeiyeh, which hath not in the world its equal. 'Ajeeb alsoentered the city, accompanied by his eunuch, in order to amusethemselves. and the eunuch walked behind 'Ajeeb, having in his hand awhip that would strike down a camel. And when the people of Damascusbeheld 'Ajeeb, and his elegance of form and perfect beauty, and observedhim to be endowed with admirable loveliness, and with kindness ofmanner, more bland than the northern zephyr, sweeter than limpid waterto the thirsty, and more pleasant than health to the diseased, theyfollowed him, running after him in crowds. and some sat waiting in thestreets to see him pass. Thus did they until the slave, as destiny hadordained, stopped before the shop of 'Ajeeb's father, asanBedr ed Deen, in which the cook who had acknowledged him as his adoptedson in the presence of the aees and witnesses had established him. andthis cook had died, and left him all his property, together with hisshop.When the slave stopped there on this day, the servants also stopped withhim: and asan Bedr ed Deen beheld his son, and was charmed with him,observing his extreme beauty: his soul yearned towards him with naturalsympathy, and his heart clung to him. He had just prepared a conserve ofpomegranate grains, sweetened with sugar. and the affection divinelyinspired increased in him. so he called out in ecstasy, and said, O mymaster, O thou who hast captivated my heart and soul, and to whom myaffections are drawn by sympathy! wilt thou come in to me and refresh myheart and eat of my food? And when he had said this, his eyes overflowedwith involuntary tears, and he reflected upon his past experience andhis condition at the present time. When 'Ajeeb heard the address of hisfather, his heart was in like manner drawn towards him by sympathy, andhe looked towards the eunuch, and said to him, Verily my heart is movedwith sympathy for this cook: he seemeth to have parted with a son: comein with us, therefore, that we may refresh his heart and eat hisoffering of hospitality: perhaps God, through our so doing, mayaccomplish our union with our father. But the eunuch replied, By Allah,O my master, it is not proper. How should we, who are of the family ofthe Wezeer, eat in the shop of a cook? I will, however, drive away thepeople from thee, lest they see thee: otherwise it will be impossiblefor thee to enter the shop. On hearing the reply of the eunuch,Bedr ed Deen was surprised, and, looking towards him, while his tearsflowed down his cheeks, said to him, Verily my heart loveth him. Let ushear no more of these words, said the eunuch: and he desired the youthnot to enter: but the father of 'Ajeeb cast his eyes upon the eunuch,and said, Great sir, wherefore wilt thou not refresh my heart and comein to me? O thou who resemblest black dust, but whose heart is white! Othou who hast been described in such and such terms of praise! so thatthe eunuch laughed, and said, What wouldst thou say? Speak, and bebrief. And Bedr ed Deen recited this couplet: Were it not for his accomplishments and admirable faithfulness,he had not been invested with authority in the abode of Kings.What an excellent guardian for the areem is he! On accountof his beauty the angels of heaven wait upon him!This address pleased the eunuch so much that he took the hand of 'Ajeeb,and entered the cook's shop. and Bedr ed Deen ladled out a saucerful ofconserve of pomegranate grains prepared with almonds and sugar, and theslave and the youth ate together. Bedr ed Deen saying to them, Ye havedelighted me by your company: eat, and may it benefit you! 'Ajeeb thensaid to his father, Sit down and eat with us. and perhaps God will uniteus to him whom we desire. And Bedr ed Deen said, O my son, hast thoubeen afflicted in thy tender years by the separation of those whom thoulovest? Yes, O uncle, answered 'Ajeeb: my heart is inflamed by theabsence of one of those who are dear to me: the friend who hathwithdrawn himself from me is my father, and I and my grandfather havecome abroad to search for him through the world. and how do I sigh formy union with him! And he wept bitterly. and his father, moved by histears, wept with him, reflecting upon his own desolate state, separatedfrom those he loved, deprived of his father, and far removed from hismother. and the eunuch was moved with compassion for him.They all ate together until they were satisfied. after which, the youthand the slave arose, and quitted the shop of Bedr ed Deen, who felt asif his soul had departed from his body and gone with them. He could notendure their absence for the twinkling of an eye. so he shut up his shopand followed them, though ignorant that the youth was his son, andwalked quickly until he came up to them before they had gone out fromthe great gate. whereupon the eunuch, looking back at him, said, Whatdost thou want, O cook? Bedr ed Deen answered, When ye departed from me,I felt as if my soul had quitted my body, and, having some business inthe suburb, I was desirous of accompanying you to transact my business,and, after that, to return. But the eunuch was angry, and said to'Ajeeb, Verily this repast was unlucky: respectful treatment hath becomeincumbent on us. and see, he is following us from place to place. 'Ajeebtherefore looked round, and, seeing the cook, was enraged, and his facebecame red. but he said to the eunuch, Suffer him to walk in the publicroad of the Muslims. but when we shall have turned from it to our tents,if he do the same, and we know that he is following us, we will drivehim back. And he hung down his head and went on, with the eunuch behindhim. Bedr ed Deen, however, followed them to the Meydan el aba, andwhen they had drawn near to the tents they looked back and saw himbehind them. and 'Ajeeb was angry, fearing that the eunuch might informhis grandfather, and lest it should be said that he had entered thecook's shop, and that the cook had followed him. He looked at him tillhis eyes met the eye of his father, who had become as a body without asoul. and he fancied that his eye bore an expression of deceit, and thathe was perhaps a knave: so his anger increased, and he took up a stone,and threw it at his father, and the stone struck him on the forehead,and wounded him, and he fell down in a swoon, the blood flowing over hisface. 'Ajeeb went on with the eunuch to the tents. and asanBedr ed Deen, when he recovered his senses, wiped off the blood, and,having cut off a piece of linen from his turban, bound up his head withit, blaming himself, and saying, I wronged the youth when I shut up myshop and followed him, so he thought I was a deceiver. He then returnedto his shop, and occupied himself with the sale of his meats. and heyearned with desire for his mother, who was at El Barah.The Wezeer, his uncle, remained at Damascus three days, and thendeparted to em, and, having entered this town, proceeded thence,inquiring at every place where he halted in his journey until he hadarrived at Marideen and El Mosil and Diyar Bekr. He continued hisjourney until he arrived at the city of El Barah, and when he hadentered it and taken up his quarters, he went and presented himselfbefore the Sulan, who received him with respect and honour, andinquired the reason of his coming: so he acquainted him with his story,and informed him that the Wezeer 'Alee Noor ed Deen was his brother. TheSulan ejaculated, God have mercy upon him! and said, Oaeb, he was my Wezeer, and I loved him much: he diedtwelve years ago, and left a son. but we have lost him, andhave heard no tidings of him: his mother, however, is with us, for sheis the daughter of my old Wezeer. On hearing from the King that themother of his nephew was alive, the Wezeer Shems ed Deen rejoiced, andsaid, I am desirous of having an interview with her. And the King gavehim immediate permission to visit her at his brother's house: so he wentthither, and kissed the threshold, and, entering an open court, found adoor over arched with hard stone inlaid with various kinds of marble ofevery colour. and he walked along by the walls of the house, and as hecast his eyes around upon them he observed the name of his brotherNoor ed Deen inscribed on them in characters of gold. and he went to thename, and kissed it, and wept. He then advanced to the saloon of hisbrother's wife, the mother of asan Bedr ed Deen of El Barah. Duringthe absence of her son she had given herself up to weeping and wailingnight and day. and after she had long suffered from his separation shemade for her son a tomb of marble in the midst of the saloon, where shewept for him night and day, sleeping nowhere but by this tomb. And whenShems ed Deen arrived at her apartment he heard her voice apostrophizingthe tomb. and while she was thus occupied he entered and saluted her,and informed her that he was her husband's brother, acquainting her withwhat had passed, and revealing to her the particulars of the story. Hetold her that her son asan Bedr ed Deen had passed a whole night withhis daughter, and disappeared in the morning, and that his daughter hadborne him a son, whom he had brought with him: and when she heard thisnews of her son, and that he was perhaps still living, and beheld herhusband's brother, she fell at his feet and kissed them, addressing himwith this couplet: Divinely is he inspired who acquainteth me with their approach.for he hath brought information most delightful to be heard.If he would be satisfied with that which is cast off,I would give him a heart rent in pieces at the hourof valediction.The Wezeer then sent to bring 'Ajeeb. and when he came, his grandmotherrose to him, and embraced him, and wept. but Shems ed Deen said to her,This is not a time for weeping, but rather a time for preparing thyselfto accompany us on our return to the land of Egypt: and perhaps God mayunite us with thy son, my nephew. She replied, I hear and obey: and,arising immediately, collected all her property and treasures, and herfemale slaves, and forthwith prepared herself: after which the Wezeer,Shems ed Deen, went up again to the Sulan of El Barah, and took leaveof him. and the King sent with him presents and rarities for the Sulanof Egypt.The Wezeer departed without delay, accompanied by his brother's wife,and continued his journey until he arrived at the city of Damascus,where he alighted again, and encamped, and said to his attendants, Wewill remain at Damascus a week, to buy, for the Sulan, presents andrarities. 'Ajeeb then said to the eunuch, Boy, I long for alittle diversion: arise, therefore, and let us go to the market ofDamascus, and see what is going on there, and what hath happened to thatcook whose confection we ate and whose head we broke, notwithstanding hehad treated us with kindness: we acted ill towards him. The eunuchreplied, I hear and obey: and 'Ajeeb went forth with him from thetents, the tie of blood inciting him to visit his father and theyentered the city, and proceeded to the shop of the cook, whom they foundstanding there. It was then near the time of afternoon prayers. and ithappened that he had again just prepared a confection ofpomegranate grains. and when they drew near to him, the heart of 'Ajeebyearned towards him when he saw him, and he perceived the scaroccasioned by the stone that he had thrown. He said to him, Peace be onthee! Know that my heart is with thee. And when Bedr ed Deen beheldhim, his affections were engrossed by him, and his heart throbbed withemotion towards him, and he hung down his head, desiring to adapt histongue to speech, and unable to do so: but presently he raised his head,and, looking towards the youth in an humble and abject manner, recitedthese verses: I wished for my beloved. but when I beheld him I was confoundedand possessed neither tongue nor eye.I hung down my head in honour and reverence, and would have hiddenwhat I felt. but it would not be concealed.I had prepared a volume of expostulation. but when we metI remembered not a word.He then said to them, Refresh ye my heart, and eat of my food. for, byAllah, as soon as I beheld thee, my heart yearned towards thee, and Ihad not followed thee unless I had been deprived of my reason. ByAllah, replied 'Ajeeb, thou dost indeed love us, and we ate a morselwith thee. but after it thou keptest close behind us and wouldst havedisgraced us: we will not eat again with thee, therefore, but on thecondition of thy swearing that thou wilt not follow us. and otherwise wewill not come to thee again henceforth. for we are staying at this citya week, in order that my grandfather may procure presents for theKing. I bind myself, said Bedr ed Deen, to do as ye desire. So 'Ajeebentered the shop with the eunuch, and Bedr ed Deen placed before them asaucer filled with the confection of pomegranate grains. upon which'Ajeeb said to him, Eat with us. and may God dispel our affliction: andBedr ed Deen was delighted, and he ate with them. but he turned not hiseyes from the youth. for his heart and all his faculties were captivatedby him. 'Ajeeb, observing this, said to him, Knowest thou not that Itold thee thou wast a rude doter? Enough of this: continue not to gazeat my face. Bedr ed Deen, therefore, apologized to him, and began toput morsels into the mouth of 'Ajeeb, and then did the same to theeunuch. Afterwards he poured the water upon their hands, and when theyhad washed he loosed a napkin of silk from his waist and wiped them withit. He next sprinkled rose water upon them from a bottle that was in hisshop, and went out, and returned with two cups of sherbet prepared withrose water infused with musk, and, placing these before them, he said,Complete your kindness. So 'Ajeeb took a cup and drank. and Bedr ed Deenhanded the other to the eunuch. and both drank until their stomachs werefull, and gratified their appetites to a degree beyond their usualhabit.They then departed, and hastened back to the tents, and 'Ajeeb went into his grandmother, the mother of his father asan Bedr ed Deen. and shekissed him, and said, Where hast thou been? He answered, In the city.And she arose, and brought him a saucer of confection ofpomegranate grains, which happened to be somewhat deficient insweetness. and she said to the eunuch, Sit down with thy master. Theeunuch said within himself, By Allah, we have no appetite. He, however,seated himself, and 'Ajeeb did the same, though satiated with what hehad eaten and drunk, and dipped a morsel of bread in the confection, andate it. but it seemed to him insipid, on account of his being thuscloyed, and he loathed it, and said, What is this nasty dish? O mychild, said his grandmother, dost thou find fault with my cookery? Itwas I who prepared it. and, except thy father, asan Bedr ed Deen, thereis none who can cook it as well as myself. By Allah, O my mistress,replied 'Ajeeb, This thy dish is not well prepared: we have just nowseen in the city a cook who had prepared a confection ofpomegranate grains, but its odour was such as to dilate the heart, andthe confection itself, such as to excite appetite in one alreadysatiated: as to thine, in comparison with his, it is good for nothing.His grandmother, on hearing this, fell into a violent rage, and turningtowards the eunuch, said to him, Wo to thee! Hast thou corrupted mychild? Thou hast taken him into the shops of the cooks! The eunuchfeared, and denied, saying, We did not enter the shop, but only passedby it: but 'Ajeeb said, By Allah, we entered and ate, and what we atewas better than this mess of thine. And upon this his grandmother arose,and informed her husband's brother, and incensed him against the eunuch.The slave was therefore brought before the Wezeer, and he said to him,Wherefore didst thou take my child into the cook's shop? The eunuch,fearing, said again, We did not enter. Nay, said 'Ajeeb, we did enter,and ate of a confection of pomegranate grains until we were satiated,and the cook gave us to drink sherbet with ice and sugar. The Wezeer'sanger with the eunuch now increased, and he asked him again. but stillhe denied. Then said the Wezeer, If thine assertion be true, sit downand eat before us. The eunuch therefore advanced, and would have eaten.but he could not. and he threw down the morsel that was in his hand, andsaid, O my master, I am satiated since yesterday. And by this the Wezeerknew that he had eaten in the shop of the cook: so he ordered the femaleslaves to throw him down upon the ground, and they did so, and he gavehim a severe beating, while the slave cried for mercy, but still saying,I am satiated since yesterday! The Wezeer then interrupted the beating,and said to him, Declare the truth. And at length the eunuch said, Knowthat we did enter the shop of the cook while he was cookingpomegranate grains, and he ladled out for us some of the confection,and, by Allah, I never in my life ate any like it, or any moredetestable than this which is before us.The mother of Bedr ed Deen, enraged at this, said, Thou shalt go to thiscook and bring us a saucerful of his confection and shew it to thymaster, that he may say which of the two is the better and the moredelicious. Well, replied the eunuch: and immediately she gave him asaucer, and half a piece of gold. and he went to the shop, and said tothe cook, We have laid a wager respecting thy confection at the tent ofour master. for there is a mess of pomegranate grains cooked by thefamily: give us, therefore, for this half piece of gold, and applythyself to prepare it perfectly. for we have received an excruciatingbeating on account of thy cookery. Laughing at these words, Bedr ed Deenreplied, By Allah, none excelleth in the preparation of this confectionexcept myself and my mother, and she is now in a distant country. And heladled out as much as filled the saucer, and perfected it by theaddition of some musk and rose water. The eunuch then hastened back withit to the family. and the mother of asan took it, and, tasting itsdelicious flavour, immediately knew who had prepared it, and shrieked,and fell down in a swoon. The Wezeer was amazed at the event. and theysprinkled some rose water upon her, and when she recovered she said, Ifmy son be yet in the world, no one but he cooked this confection: he ismy son asan Bedr ed Deen without doubt: for none but he can preparethis, except myself, and it was I who taught him to do it.When the Wezeer heard these words, he rejoiced exceedingly, andexclaimed, Oh, how I long to behold my brother's son! Will fortune,indeed, unite us with him? But I look not for our union from any butGod, whose name be exalted! And he instantly arose, and called out tohis male attendants, saying, Let twenty men of you go to the shop of thecook, and demolish it, and bind his hands behind him with his turban,and drag him hither by force, but without any injury to his person. Theyreplied, Well. The Wezeer then rode immediately to the palace, and,presenting himself before the Viceroy of Damascus, shewed him thecontents of the letters which he had brought from the Sulan. and theViceroy, after kissing them, put them to his head, and said, Who isthine offender? He answered, A man who is by trade a cook. And instantlythe Viceroy ordered his Chamberlains to repair to his shop. and theywent thither. but found it demolished, and everything that had been init broken. for when the Wezeer went to the palace, his servants did ashe had commanded them. They were then waiting his return from thepalace. and Bedr ed Deen was saying within himself, What can they havediscovered in the confection, that such an event as this should havebefallen me? And when the Wezeer returned from the Viceroy, and hadreceived his permission to take his offender and to depart with him, heentered the encampment, and called for the cook. They brought him,therefore, with his hands bound behind him with his turban. and when hesaw his uncle he wept bitterly, and said, O my master, what crime haveye found in me? The Wezeer said to him, Art thou he who cooked theconfection of pomegranate grains? He answered, Yes: and have ye found init anything that requires one's head to be struck off? This, replied theWezeer, is the smallest part of thy recompense. Wilt thou not, saidBedr ed Deen, acquaint me with my crime? The Wezeer answered, Yea,immediately. And forthwith he called out to the young men, saying, Bringthe camels!They then took Bedr ed Deen, and put him in a chest, and, having lockedhim up in it, commenced their journey, and continued on their way tillthe approach of night, when they halted and ate, and, taking outBedr ed Deen, fed him. after which they put him again into the chest,and in like manner proceeded to another station. Here also they took himout. and the Wezeer said to him, Art thou he who cooked the confectionof pomegranate grains? He answered, Yes, O my master. And the Wezeersaid, Shackle his feet. And they did so, and restored him to the chest.They then continued their journey to Cairo. and when they arrived at thequarter called Er Reydaneeyeh, the Wezeer commanded to takeout Bedr ed Deen again from the chest, and to bring a carpenter, to whomhe said, Make, for this man, a cross. What, saidBedr ed Deen, dost thou mean to do with it? The Wezeer answered, I willcrucify thee upon it, and nail thee to it, and then parade thee aboutthe city. Wherefore, demanded Bedr ed Deen, wilt thou treat methus? The Wezeer replied, For thy faulty preparation of the confectionof pomegranate grains, because thou madest it deficient inpepper. Because of its deficiency in pepper, exclaimed Bedr ed Deen,wilt thou do all this to me? Art thou not satisfied with having thusimprisoned me, and fed me every day with only one meal? The Wezeeranswered, For its deficiency in pepper, thy recompense shall be nothingless than death. And Bedr ed Deen was amazed, and bewailed his lot, andremained a while absorbed in reflection. The Wezeer, therefore, said tohim, Of what art thou thinking? He answered, Of imbecile minds, such asthine. for if thou wert a man of sense thou wouldst not have treated mein this manner on account of the deficiency of pepper. It is incumbenton us, replied the Wezeer, to punish thee, that thou mayest not do thelike again: to which Bedr ed Deen rejoined, The least of the thingsthou hast done to me were a sufficient punishment. The Wezeer, however,said, Thy death is unavoidable. All this conversation took place whilethe carpenter was preparing the cross. and Bedr ed Deen was looking on.Thus they both continued until the approach of night, whenBedr ed Deen's uncle took him and put him again into the chest, saying,To morrow shall be thy crucifixion. He then waited until he perceivedthat he was asleep. upon which he remounted, and, with the chest bornebefore him, entered the city, and repaired to his house: and when he hadarrived there he said to his daughter Sitt el osn, Praise be to God whohath restored to thee the son of thine uncle! Arise, and furnish thehouse as it was on the night of the bridal display. She thereforeordered her female slaves to do so. and they arose, and lighted thecandles. and the Wezeer brought out the paper upon which he had writtenhis inventory of the furniture of the house, and read it, and orderedthem to put every thing in its place, so that the beholder would notdoubt that this was the very night of the bridal display. He directedthem to put Bedr ed Deen's turban in the place where its owner haddeposited it, and in like manner the trousers, and the purse which wasbeneath the mattress, and ordered his daughter to adorn herself as shewas on the bridal night, and to enter the bride chamber. saying to her,When the son of thine uncle comes into thy chamber, say to him, Thouhast loitered since thou withdrewest from me this night: and requesthim to return and converse with thee till day. Having thus arrangedeverything, the Wezeer took out Bedr ed Deen from the chest, removed theshackles from his feet, and stripped him of his outer clothes, leavinghim in his shirt.All this was done while he was asleep, unconscious of what was passing.and when he awoke, and found himself in an illuminated vestibule, hesaid, within himself, Am I bewildered by dreams, or am I awake? Thenrising, he advanced a little way to an inner door, and looked, and lo,he was in the house in which the bride had been displayed, and he beheldthe bride chamber and the couch and his turban and clothes. Confoundedat the sight of these things, he took one step forwards and anotherbackwards, thinking, Am I asleep or awake? And he began to wipe hisforehead, and exclaimed in his astonishment,By Allah, this is the dwelling of the bride who was here displayedbefore me: and yet I was just now in a chest. And while he wasaddressing himself, behold Sitt el osn lifted up the corner of themusquito curtain, and said, O my master, wilt thou not come in? for thouhast loitered since thou withdrewest from me this night. When he heardthese words he looked at her face, and laughed, and said, Verily, theseappearances are bewildering illusions of a dream! Then entering, hesighed. and as he reflected upon what had happened to him, he wasperplexed at his situation, and his case seemed involved in obscurity.Looking at his turban and trousers, and the purse containing thethousand pieces of gold, he exclaimed, Allah is all knowing! but itseemeth to me that I am bewildered by dreams! And he was confounded inthe excess of his astonishment. Upon this, therefore, Sitt el osn saidto him, Wherefore do I behold thee thus astonished and perplexed? Thouwast not so in the commencement of the night. And he laughed, and askedher, How many years have I been absent from thee? Allah preserve thee!she exclaimed. The name of Allah encompass thee! Thou hastonly withdrawn to yonder apartment. What hath passed in thy mind? Onhearing this he smiled, and replied, Thou hast spoken truth. but when Iwithdrew from thee, sleep overcame me, and I dreamt that I was a cook inDamascus, and that I lived there twelve years. and Ithought that a youth of the sons of the great came to me, accompaniedby a eunuch, and he proceeded to relate what had happened to him inconsequence of this youth's visit: then drawing his hand over hisforehead, he felt the scar occasioned by the blow, and exclaimed, ByAllah, O my mistress, it seemeth as though it were true. for he struckme with a stone upon my forehead, and cut it open: it seemeth,therefore, as though this had really happened when I was awake: butprobably this dream occurred when we were both asleep. I imagined in mydream that I was transported to Damascus, without arboosh or turban ortrousers, and that I followed the occupation of a cook. And again, fora while, he remained utterly confounded. He then said, By Allah, Iimagined that I made a confection of pomegranate grains containing butlittle pepper. Verily I must have been asleep, and in my sleep have seenall this. I conjure thee by Allah, said Sitt el osn, tell me what morethou sawest? And he related to her the whole. and added, If I had notawaked, they would have crucified me upon a wooden cross. On account ofwhat? said she. He answered, On account of the deficiency of pepper inthe confection of pomegranate grains. and I imagined that theydemolished my shop, and broke all my vessels, and put me in a chest, andbrought the carpenter to make a cross of wood. for they intended tocrucify me upon it. Praise be to God, therefore, who caused all this tooccur to me in sleep, and caused it not to happen to me when I wasawake! Sitt el osn, laughing at his words, pressed him to her bosom,and he in like manner embraced her. Then reflecting again, he said, ByAllah, it seems as if it had happened when I was awake. and I knew notthe reason, nor the truth of the case. And he composed himself tosleep, perplexed with his case, and sometimes saying, I saw it in mysleep, and other times, I experienced it awake.Thus he continued until the morning, when his uncle, the WezeerShems ed Deen, came in to him, and saluted him. and Bedr ed Deen, assoon as he beheld him, exclaimed, I conjure thee by Allah, tell me artnot thou he who gave orders to bind my hands behind me, and to nail upmy shop, on account of the confection of pomegranate grains, because itwas deficient in pepper? The Wezeer answered, Know, O my son, that thetruth hath appeared, and what was hidden hath been manifested. Thou artthe son of my brother. and I did not this but to know if thou wert hewho visited my daughter on that night. I was not convinced of this untilI saw that thou knewest the house, and thy turban and trousers and gold,and the two papers. namely, the one which thou wrotest, and that whichthy father, my brother, wrote: for I had never seen thee before, andtherefore knew thee not. and as to thy mother, I have brought her withme from El Barah. Having thus said, he threw himself upon him, andwept. and Bedr ed Deen, full of astonishment at his uncle's words,embraced him, and in like manner wept from excess of joy. The Wezeerthen said to him, O my son, the cause of all this was what passedbetween me and thy father. And he related to him the circumstances oftheir case, and the cause of his father's departure to El Barah. afterwhich he sent for 'Ajeeb. and when the father of the youth saw him, heexclaimed, This is he who threw the stone at me. This, said the Wezeer,is thy son. And Bedr ed Deen cast himself upon him, and recited thefollowing verses: Long have I wept on account of our disunion. the tears overflowingfrom my eyelids.And I vowed that if Providence should bring us together, I wouldnever again mention our separation.Joy hath overcome me to such a degree that by its excess it hathmade me weep.O eye, thou hast become so accustomed to tears that thou weepestfrom happiness as from grief.And when he had uttered these words, his mother, beholding him, threwherself upon him, and repeated this couplet: Fortune made a vow to torment me incessantly. but thine oathhath proved false, O Fortune. therefore expiate it.Happiness hath arrived, and the beloved is come to my relief:repair then to the messenger of festivity, and hasten.She afterwards related to him everything that had happened to her. andhe also acquainted her with all that he had suffered. and they offeredup thanks to God for their union. The Wezeer then went up to the Sulan,and informed him of these occurrences. and the King was astonished, andordered that a statement of them should be inserted in the records, tobe preserved to future ages. And the Wezeer resided with his brother'sson, and his own daughter and her son, and with the wife of his brother.and all of them passed their lives in the enjoyment of the utmosthappiness until they were visited by the terminator of delights, and theseparator of companions.Such, O Prince of the Faithful, said Jaafar, were the events thathappened to the Wezeer Shems ed Deen and his brother Noor ed Deen. ByAllah, exclaimed the Khaleefeh Haroon Er Rasheed, this story iswonderful! And he gave one of his own concubines to the young man whohad killed his wife, and appointed him a regular maintenance. and theyoung man became one of his companions at the table.