Once upon a time there was a man who had three daughters. The youngestone was named Oda.One day the father wanted to go the market, and he asked his daughterswhat he should bring back to them. The oldest asked for a golden spinningwheel, the second for a golden ring, but Oda said, "Bring me that whichruns away from beneath your carriage when you are about to return."At the market the father bought what the older girls had wished forthemselves, then set off toward home, and behold, a snake ran from beneathhis carriage. The man caught it and brought it along for Oda. He threw itinto the bottom of his carriage, then afterward in front of the housedoor, and left it lying there.When Oda entered the door the snake began speaking, "Oda! Dear Oda!Can't I come inside?""What?" said Oda. "My father brought you up to the front door, and nowyou want to come inside?" But she gave in.Then Oda went to her bedroom, and the snake called after her, "Oda,dear Oda! Can't I rest in front of your bedroom door?""Look here," said Oda. "My father brought you up to the front door, andI let you come inside, and now you want to lie in front of my bedroomdoor? Well, let it be so."When Oda was about to enter her bedroom and opened the bedroom door,the snake called out again, "Oh, Oda, dear Oda! Can't I come into yourbedroom?""What," called Oda, "Didn't my father bring you up to the font door?Didn't I let you come inside and up to my bedroom door? And now you wantto come into my bedroom with me?   All right, if you will now besatisfied, come inside, but you must lie here quietly, I'm tellingyou!"With that Oda let the snake come inside, and she began to getundressed. She was about to climb into her bed when the snake called outagain, "Oh Oda, dearest Oda! Can't I get into bed with you?""This is too much!" cried Oda angrily. "My father brought you up to thefront door, and I allowed you into my room, and now you want to get intobed with me? But you are freezing! All right, come here and get warm, youpoor worm!"Then good Oda stuck out her soft, warm hand and picked up the coldsnake, who had been enchanted for a long time and who could only beredeemed if everything could happen just as it had now happened. He wastransformed into a handsome young prince, and he immediately took Oda ashis wife.