In the reign of the Emperor Fulgentius, a certain knight, namedZedechias, married a very beautiful but imprudent wife. In a certainchamber of their mansion a serpent dwelt. Now, the knight's vehementinclination for tournaments and jousting brought him to extreme poverty.He grieved immoderately, and, like one who was desperate, walked backwardand forward, ignorant of what he should do. The serpent, beholding hismisery, like the ass of Balaam, was on that occasion miraculously giftedwith a voice, and said to the knight, "Why do you lament? Take my advice,and you shall not repent it. Supply me every day with a certain quantityof sweet milk, and I will enrich you."This promise exhilarated the knight, and he faithfully followed theinstructions of his subtle friend. The consequence was that he had abeautiful son, and became exceedingly wealthy. But it happened that hiswife one day said to him, "My lord, I am sure that serpent has greatriches hidden in the chamber where he dwells. Let us kill him and getpossession of the whole."The advice pleased the knight, and at the request of his wife he took ahammer to destroy the serpent, and a vessel of milk. Allured by the milk,it put its head out of the hole, as it had been accustomed. and the knightlifted the hammer to strike it. The serpent, observing his perfidy,suddenly drew back its head. and the blow fell upon the vessel. No soonerhad he done this, than his offspring died, and he lost everything that heformerly possessed.The wife, taught by their common loss, said to him, "Alas! I have illcounseled you. but go now to the hole of the serpent, and humblyacknowledge your offense. Peradventure you may find grace." The knightcomplied, and standing before the dwelling place of the serpent, shed manytears, and entreated that he might once more be made rich."I see," answered the serpent, "I see now that you are a fool, and willalways be a fool. For how can I forget that blow of the hammer which youdesigned me, for which reason I slew your son and took away your wealth?There can be no real peace between us."The knight, full of sorrow, replied thus, "I promise the most unshakenfidelity, and will never meditate the slightest injury, provided I maythis once obtain your grace.""My friend," said the serpent, "it is the nature of my species to besubtle and venomous. Let what I have said suffice. The blow offered at myhead is fresh upon my recollection. get you gone before you receive aninjury."The knight departed in great affliction, saying to his wife, "Fool thatI was to take your counsel!" But ever afterwards they lived in thegreatest indigence.Application:My beloved, the king is God. the knight is Adam, who by following hiswife's advice lost Paradise. The serpent in the chamber signifies Christretained in the human heart, by virtue of baptism.