An emperor rode out in the afternoon to hunt. Happening to pass acertain wood, he heard a serpent, which some shepherds had caught andbound firmly to a tree, making a most horrible clamor. Moved by pity, heloosed it, and warmed its frozen body in his own bosom. No sooner,however, did the animal find itself recovered, than it began to bite itsbenefactor, and shot a flood of poison into the wound. "What have youdone?" said the emperor. "Wherefore have you rendered evil for good?"The serpent, like the ass of Balaam, being suddenly endowed with voice,replied, "The propensities which nature has implanted no one can destroy.You have done what you could. and I have only acted according to mynature. You exhibited towards me all the kindness in your power, and Ihave recompensed you as well as I might. I offered poison, because, exceptpoison, I had nothing to offer. Moreover, I am an enemy to man. forthrough him I became punished with a curse."As they thus contended, they entreated a philosopher to judge betweenthem, and to state which was in the wrong. "I know this matter," answeredthe umpire, "only by your relation. but I should like to see the thingitself upon which I am to pronounce judgment. Let the serpent, therefore,be bound to the tree, as he was in the first instance, and let my lord theemperor remain unbound. I shall then determine the matter between you."This was done accordingly. "Now you are bound," said the philosopher,addressing the serpent, loose yourself if you can.""I cannot," said the serpent. "I am bound so fast that I can scarcelymove.""Then die," rejoined the philosopher, "by a just sentence. You werealways ungrateful to man, and you always will be. My lord, you are nowfree. Shake the venom from your bosom, and go your way. Do not repeat yourfolly. Remember that the serpent is only influence by his naturalpropensities." The emperor thanked the philosopher for his assistance andadvice, and departed.Application:My beloved, the emperor is any good ecclesiastic, the woodis the world, and the serpent is the devil. The shepherds are theprophets, patriarchs, Christian preachers, etc. The philosopher is adiscreet confessor.