LakeOf old times. There was a very beautiful woman. She turned the heads ofall the men. She married, and her husband died very soon after, but sheimmediately took another. Within a single year she had five husbands, andthese were the cleverest and handsomest and bravest in the tribe. Andthen she married again.This, the sixth, was such a silent man that he passed for a fool. But hewas wiser than people thought. He came to believe, by thinking it over,that this woman had some strange secret. He resolved to find it out. So hewatched her all the time. He kept his eye on her by night and by day.It was summer, and she proposed to go into the woods to pick berries, andto camp there. By and by, when they were in the forest, she suggested thathe should go on to the spot where they intended to remain and build awigwam. He said that he would do so. But he went a little way into thewoods and watched her.As soon as she believed that he was gone, she rose and walked rapidlyonwards. He followed her, unseen. She went on, till, in a deep, wild placeamong the rocks, she came to a pond. She sat down and sang a song. A greatfoam, or froth, rose to the surface of the water. Then in the foamappeared the tail of a serpent. The creature was of immense size.The woman, who had laid aside all her garments, embraced the serpent,which twined around her, enveloping all her limbs and body in his folds.The husband watched it all. He now understood that, the venom of theserpent having entered the woman, she had saved her life by transferringit to others, who died.He went on to the camping ground and built a wigwam. He made up two beds.He built a fire. His wife came. She was earnest that there should be onlya single bed. He sternly bade her lie by herself. She was afraid of him.She laid down and went to sleep. He arose three times during the night toreplenish the fire. Every time he called her, and there was no answer. Inthe morning he shook her. She was dead. She had died by the poison of theserpent.They sunk her in the pond where the snake lived.