A farmer had a faithful dog named Sultan, who had grown old and lostall his teeth, and could no longer hold onto anything. One day the farmerwas standing with his wife before the house door, and said, "Tomorrow Iintend to shoot Old Sultan. He is no longer of any use."His wife, who felt pity for the faithful animal, answered, "He hasserved us so long, and been so faithful, that we might well give him hiskeep.""What?" said the man. "You are not very bright. He doesn't have atooth left in his mouth, and no thief is afraid of him. He can go now. Ifhe has served us, he has eaten well for it."The poor dog, who was lying stretched out in the sun not far off, heardeverything, and was sorry that tomorrow was to be his last day. He had agood friend, the wolf, and he crept out in the evening into the forest tohim, and complained of the fate that awaited him."Listen, kinsman," said the wolf, "be of good cheer. I will help youout of your trouble. I have thought of something. Tomorrow, early in themorning, your master is going with his wife to make hay, and they willtake their little child with them, for no one will be left behind in thehouse. While they are at work they lay the child behind the hedge in theshade. You lie down there too, just as if you wanted to guard it. Then Iwill come out of the woods, and carry off the child. You must run swiftlyafter me, as if you would take it away from me. I will let it fall, andyou will take it back to its parents, who will think that you have rescuedit, and will be far too grateful to do you any harm. On the contrary, youwill be treated royally, and they will never let you want for anythingagain."This idea pleased the dog, and it was carried out just as planned. Thefather screamed when he saw the wolf running across the field with hischild, but when Old Sultan brought it back, he was full of joy, andstroked him and said, "Not a hair of yours shall be hurt. You shall eatfree bread as long as you live."And to his wife he said, "Go home at once and make Old Sultan somebread soup that he will not have to bite. And bring the pillow from mybed. I will give it to him to lie on. From then on Old Sultan was aswell off as he could possibly wish.Soon afterwards the wolf visited him, and was pleased that everythinghad succeeded so well. "But, kinsman," he said, "you will just close oneeye if, when I have a chance, I carry off one of your master's fatsheep.""Don't count on that," answered the dog. "I will remain true to mymaster. I cannot agree to that."The wolf thought that this was not spoken in earnest, and he crept upin the night to take away the sheep. But the farmer, to whom the faithfulSultan had told the wolf's plan, was waiting for him and combed his haircruelly with a flail. The wolf had to flee, but he cried out to the dog,"Just wait, you scoundrel. You'll regret this."The next morning the wolf sent the boar to challenge the dog to comeout into the forest and settle the affair. Old Sultan could find no one tobe his second but a cat with only three legs, and as they went outtogether the poor cat limped along, stretching its tail upward withpain.The wolf and his friend were already at the appointed place, but whenthey saw their enemy coming, they thought that he was bringing a saberwith him, for they mistook the cat's outstretched tail for one. And whenthe poor animal hopped on three legs, they thought that each time it waspicking up a stone to throw at them. Then they took fright. The wild boarcrept into the underbrush and the wolf jumped up a tree.As the dog and the cat approached, they wondered why no one was to beseen. The wild boar, however, had not been able to hide himselfcompletely in the leaves. His ears were still sticking out. While the catwas looking cautiously about, the boar wiggled his ears, and the cat, whothought it was a mouse, jumped on it and bit down hard. The boar jumpedup screaming loudly, "The guilty one is up in the tree."The dog and cat looked up and saw the wolf, who was ashamed for havingshown such fear, and who then made peace with the dog.