Once upon a time there were a father and a mother who had twochildren, a girl and a boy. The girl's name was Gretel, and theboy's name was Hans. The children were disobedient, and oftenreceived beatings.One day they wanted to go into the woods to pick strawberries,but their mother said, "You are not allowed to go out today. Athunderstorm is approaching, so you have to stay at home."But the children did not obey. While their mother was busyworking, the children took their little baskets from the wall andwent into the woods. There they picked strawberries, but they hadscarcely begun when it grew dark. A storm arose that whipped thetrees fiercely against each other until the branches came flyingdown. It began to thunder and lightning, followed by hail andrain. The frightened children were sorry that they had not obeyedtheir mother and remained at home. Fortunately they found a rockycave, and they crept inside and waited until the rain stopped.After the thunderstorm had passed, they wanted to go home, but  oh dear   they no longer knew the way. They walked and walked,but instead of going out of the woods, they only went deeper anddeeper into the woods. They grew terribly afraid and called out,"Father! Mother!" but no one heard them. Night fell, and they sawwith terror that they would have to sleep in the woods.Then Gretel said, "Hans, do you know what? Climb a tree. Youlike to climb trees, and you can look around. Maybe you'll see alight where we can go."Hans did this, and he did indeed see a light in the distance.He came down from the tree, took Gretel by the hand, and led herin the direction of the light he had seen. When they arrivedthere, they saw a little house from which the light wasglistening. Looking more closely, they found that it was made ofgingerbread. The walls were of gingerbread and the roof ofmarzipan. They looked around for a ladder, and finding one, theyleaned it on the roof and climbed up. There they made themselvescomfortable and began breaking off one marzipan shingle after theother and eating them, until there was a hole clear through theroof.Now a witch named Grule lived in this little house, and sheliked to eat children more than anything else. She was just aboutto go to bed when she heard something on her roof.Running outside, she said with a deep voice, "Who is robbing myhouse?""The wind, the wind," was Gretel's reply, with a very gentlevoice.Satisfied, she went back inside and went to bed.In the meantime the moon had risen, and when the witch put outher light she noticed a large hole in the roof above her bed, anda child's head looking around. She jumped up, ran outside, pulledthe children down from the roof, and said, "Just wait, youworthless brats. I'll teach you to ruin my house. Get inside. Youcan't leave." And with these words she put them in an emptychicken coop and locked the door.The next days, and for some time afterward, the witch broughtthe children good things to eat, for she wanted to fatten them upin order to have a good roast from them. She brought the childrenall the things they liked to eat: cake, sweets, fruit, and manyother things.When she thought that the children must be fat enough, she tooka knife to the coop. First she went to Gretel and said, "Girl,stick out your little finger, but Gretel thought, "No way," andheld out her apron string.Grule cut into it a little, and said, "Skinny, skinny."Then she went to Hans and said, "Boy, stick out your littlefinger," and Hans held out his trouser string.She likewise cut into it and said, "Skinny, skinny," then wentaway.After this she thought, "What should I give the children to eatto make them fat? Good things don't make them fat. I'll trysomething else." And from then on she gave them nothing but flourporridge, which the children soon grew to hate.Some time later the witch again came to the coop with a knifeand said to Gretel, "Girl, stick out your little finger," and thistime Gretel held out her finger. Old Grule cut into it a little,and a drop of blood appeared. Then the witch said, "Fat, fat."Then she went to Hans and told him to hold out his finger aswell, which he did, just as Gretel had done. She cut into it too,and when it bled a little, she again said, "Fat, fat."She went to her kitchen and made a fire in her oven. After ithad burned down she took a wooden crook and with it spread thecoals evenly across the oven's entire surface. After a while shetook a wet straw whisk and swept the coals to the front of theoven, then took them out. Then she went to the coop, opened it,and said, "Come, children, I have some baked plums in the oven.You can get them out for me."The two ran for joy into the kitchen with Old Grule, thinkingthat at last they were going to get something other than theeternal flour porridge. Arriving there, the witch got a baker'speel and told the children to sit on it, so she could push theminto the oven. But while Grule was gone, Gretel looked into theoven and saw that there were no plums in it at all. So when OldGrule told her to sit on the peel first, she pretended to be soawkward that she fell off. Then she said, "My dear Grule, I don'tunderstand how I am supposed to sit on it. Show me, so I can seehow."Then Old Grule pulled her skirts together, sat down on thebaker's peel, and said, "See. This is how to do it." And while shewas thus sitting there, Gretel gave a sign to Hans, and bang, thechildren pushed the witch into the oven, and Old Grule burned upmiserably.Gretel and Hans returned home. Their parents were very happy tosee them, for they thought their children had died, but still eachof them was given a beating for being disobedient.