"In the world it's always going up and down. and now I can't go upany higher!" So said Ole the tower keeper. "Most people have to tryboth the ups and the downs. and, rightly considered, we all get tobe watchmen at last, and look down upon life from a height."Such was the speech of Ole, my friend, the old tower keeper, astrange, talkative old fellow, who seemed to speak out everything thatcame into his head, and who for all that had many a serious thoughtdeep in his heart. Yes, he was the child of respectable people, andthere were even some who said that he was the son of a privycouncillor, or that he might have been. He had studied, too, and hadbeen assistant teacher and deputy clerk. but of what service was allthat to him? In those days he lived in the clerk's house, and was tohave everything in the house to be at free quarters, as the sayingis. but he was still, so to speak, a fine young gentleman. He wantedto have his boots cleaned with patent blacking, and the clerk couldonly afford ordinary grease. and upon that point they split. One spokeof stinginess, the other of vanity, and the blacking became theblack cause of enmity between them, and at last they parted.This is what he demanded of the world in general, namely, patentblacking, and he got nothing but grease. Accordingly, he at lastdrew back from all men, and became a hermit. but the church tower isthe only place in a great city where hermitage, office and bread canbe found together. So he betook himself up thither, and smoked hispipe as he made his solitary rounds. He looked upward and downward,and had his own thoughts, and told in his own way of what he read inbooks and in himself. I often lent him books good books. and youmay know by the company he keeps. He loved neither the Englishgoverness novels nor the French ones, which he called a mixture ofempty wind and raisin stalks: he wanted biographies, anddescriptions of the wonders of, the world. I visited him at least oncea year, generally directly after New Year's day, and then he alwaysspoke of this and that which the change of the year had put into hishead.I will tell the story of three of these visits, and will reproducehis own words whenever I can remember them.FIRST VISITAmong the books which I had lately lent Ole, was one which hadgreatly rejoiced and occupied him. It was a geological book,containing an account of the boulders."Yes, they're rare old fellows, those boulders!" he said. "andto think that we should pass them without noticing them! And overthe street pavement, the paving stones, those fragments of theoldest remains of antiquity, one walks without ever thinking aboutthem. I have done the very thing myself. But now I look respectfullyat every paving stone. Many thanks for the book! It has filled me withthought, and has made me long to read more on the subject. The romanceof the earth is, after all, the most wonderful of all romances. It's apity one can't read the first volume of it, because it is written in alanguage that we don't understand. One must read in the differentstrata, in the pebble stones, for each separate period. Yes, it is aromance, a very wonderful romance, and we all have our place in it. Wegrope and ferret about, and yet remain where we are. but the ballkeeps turning, without emptying the ocean over us. the clod on whichwe move about, holds, and does not let us through. And then it's astory that has been acting for thousands upon thousands of years andis still going on. My best thanks for the book about the boulders.Those are fellows indeed! They could tell us something worthhearing, if they only knew how to talk. It's really a pleasure now andthen to become a mere nothing, especially when a man is as highlyplaced as I am. And then to think that we all, even with patentlacquer, are nothing more than insects of a moment on that ant hillthe earth, though we may be insects with stars and garters, places andoffices! One feels quite a novice beside these venerablemillion year old boulders. On last New Year's eve I was reading thebook, and had lost myself in it so completely, that I forgot myusual New Year's diversion, namely, the wild hunt to Amack. Ah, youdon't know what that is!"The journey of the witches on broomsticks is well enough known thatjourney is taken on St. John's eve, to the Brocken. but we have awild journey, also which is national and modern, and that is thejourney to Amack on the night of the New Year. All indifferent poetsand poetesses, musicians, newspaper writers, and artisticnotabilities, I mean those who are no good, ride in the New Year'snight through the air to Amack. They sit backwards on their paintingbrushes or quill pens, for steel pens won't bear them they're toostiff. As I told you, I see that every New Year's night, and couldmention the majority of the riders by name, but I should not like todraw their enmity upon myself, for they don't like people to talkabout their ride to Amack on quill pens. I've a kind of niece, whois a fishwife, and who, as she tells me, supplies three respectablenewspapers with the terms of abuse and vituperation they use, andshe has herself been at Amack as an invited guest. but she was carriedout thither, for she does not own a quill pen, nor can she ride. Shehas told me all about it. Half of what she said is not true, but theother half gives us information enough. When she was out there, thefestivities began with a song. each of the guests had written hisown song, and each one sang his own song, for he thought that thebest, and it was all one, all the same melody. Then those camemarching up, in little bands, who are only busy with their mouths.There were ringing bells that rang alternately. and then came thelittle drummers that beat their tattoo in the family circle. andacquaintance was made with those who write without putting theirnames, which here means as much as using grease instead of patentblacking. and then there was the beadle with his boy, and the boywas worst off, for in general he gets no notice taken of him. then,too, there was the good street sweeper with his cart, who turns overthe dust bin, and calls it 'good, very good, remarkably good.' Andin the midst of the pleasure that was afforded by the mere meetingof these folks, there shot up out of the great dirt heap at Amack astem, a tree, an immense flower, a great mushroom, a perfect roof,which formed a sort of warehouse for the worthy company, for in ithung everything they had given to the world during the Old Year. Outof the tree poured sparks like flames of fire. these were the ideasand thoughts, borrowed from others, which they had used, and which nowgot free and rushed away like so many fireworks. They played at 'thestick burns,' and the young poets played at 'heart burns,' and thewitlings played off their jests, and the jests rolled away with athundering sound, as if empty pots were being shattered against doors.'It was very amusing!' my niece said. in fact, she said many thingsthat were very malicious but very amusing, but I won't mention them,for a man must be good natured, and not a carping critic. But you willeasily perceive that when a man once knows the rights of the journeyto Amack, as I know them, it's quite natural that on the New Year'snight one should look out to see the wild chase go by. If in the NewYear I miss certain persons who used to be there, I am sure tonotice others who are new arrivals. but this year I omitted takingmy look at the guests, I bowled away on the boulders, rolled backthrough millions of years, and saw the stones break loose high up inthe north, saw them drifting about on icebergs, long before Noah's arkwas constructed, saw them sink down to the bottom of the sea, andre appear with a sand bank, with that one that peered forth from theflood and said, 'This shall be Zealand!' I saw them become thedwelling place of birds that are unknown to us, and then become theseat of wild chiefs of whom we know nothing, until with their axesthey cut their Runic signs into a few of these stones, which then cameinto the calendar of time. But as for me, I had gone quite beyondall lapse of time, and had become a cipher and a nothing. Then threeor four beautiful falling stars came down, which cleared the air,and gave my thoughts another direction. You know what a falling staris, do you not? The learned men are not at all clear about it. Ihave my own ideas about shooting stars, as the common people in manyparts call them, and my idea is this: How often are silentthanksgivings offered up for one who has done a good and noble action!The thanks are often speechless, but they are not lost for all that. Ithink these thanks are caught up, and the sunbeams bring the silent,hidden thankfulness over the head of the benefactor. and if it be awhole people that has been expressing its gratitude through a longlapse of time, the thankfulness appears as a nosegay of flowers, andat length falls in the form of a shooting star over the good man'sgrave. I am always very much pleased when I see a shooting star,especially in the New Year's night, and then find out for whom thegift of gratitude was intended. Lately a gleaming star fell in thesouthwest, as a tribute of thanksgiving to many many! 'For whom wasthat star intended?' thought I. It fell, no doubt, on the hill bythe Bay of Plensberg, where the Danebrog waves over the graves ofSchleppegrell, Lasloes, and their comrades. One star also fell inthe midst of the land, fell upon Soro, a flower on the grave ofHolberg, the thanks of the year from a great many thanks for hischarming plays!"It is a great and pleasant thought to know that a shooting starfalls upon our graves. On mine certainly none will fall no sunbeambrings thanks to me, for here there is nothing worthy of thanks. Ishall not get the patent lacquer," said Ole, "for my fate on earthis only grease, after all."SECOND VISITIt was New Year's day, and I went up on the tower. Ole spoke ofthe toasts that were drunk on the transition from the Old Year intothe New from one grave into the other, as he said. And he told me astory about the glasses, and this story had a very deep meaning. Itwas this:"When on the New Year's night the clock strikes twelve, the peopleat the table rise up with full glasses in their hands, and drain theseglasses, and drink success to the New Year. They begin the year withthe glass in their hands. that is a good beginning for drunkards. Theybegin the New Year by going to bed, and that's a good beginning fordrones. Sleep is sure to play a great part in the New Year, and theglass likewise. Do you know what dwells in the glass?" asked Ole. "Iwill tell you. There dwell in the glass, first, health, and thenpleasure, then the most complete sensual delight. and misfortune andthe bitterest woe dwell in the glass also. Now, suppose we count theglasses of course I count the different degrees in the glasses fordifferent people."You see, the first glass, that's the glass of health, and in thatthe herb of health is found growing. Put it up on the beam in theceiling, and at the end of the year you may be sitting in the arbor ofhealth."If you take the second glass from this a little bird soarsupward, twittering in guileless cheerfulness, so that a man may listento his song, and perhaps join in 'Fair is life! no downcast looks!Take courage, and march onward!'"Out of the third glass rises a little winged urchin, who cannotcertainly be called an angel child, for there is goblin blood in hisveins, and he has the spirit of a goblin not wishing to hurt orharm you, indeed, but very ready to play off tricks upon you. He'llsit at your ear and whisper merry thoughts to you. he'll creep intoyour heart and warm you, so that you grow very merry, and become awit, so far as the wits of the others can judge."In the fourth glass is neither herb, bird, nor urchin. In thatglass is the pause drawn by reason, and one may never go beyond thatsign."Take the fifth glass, and you will weep at yourself, you willfeel such a deep emotion. or it will affect you in a different way.Out of the glass there will spring with a bang Prince Carnival, ninetimes and extravagantly merry. He'll draw you away with him. you'llforget your dignity, if you have any, and you'll forget more thanyou should or ought to forget. All is dance, song and sound: the maskswill carry you away with them, and the daughters of vanity, clad insilk and satin, will come with loose hair and alluring charms. buttear yourself away if you can!"The sixth glass! Yes, in that glass sits a demon, in the formof a little, well dressed, attractive and very fascinating man, whothoroughly understands you, agrees with you in everything, and becomesquite a second self to you. He has a lantern with him, to give youlight as he accompanies you home. There is an old legend about a saintwho was allowed to choose one of the seven deadly sins, and whoaccordingly chose drunkenness, which appeared to him the least, butwhich led him to commit all the other six. The man's blood ismingled with that of the demon. It is the sixth glass, and with thatthe germ of all evil shoots up within us. and each one grows up with astrength like that of the grains of mustard seed, and shoots up into atree, and spreads over the whole world: and most people have no choicebut to go into the oven, to be re cast in a new form."That's the history of the glasses," said the tower keeper Ole,"and it can be told with lacquer or only with grease. but I give ityou with both!"THIRD VISITOn this occasion I chose the general "moving day" for my visitto Ole, for on that day it is anything but agreeable down in thestreets in the town. for they are full of sweepings, shreds, andremnants of all sorts, to say nothing of the cast off rubbish in whichone has to wade about. But this time I happened to see two childrenplaying in this wilderness of sweepings. They were playing at "goingto bed," for the occasion seemed especially favorable for thissport. They crept under the straw, and drew an old bit of raggedcurtain over themselves by way of coverlet. "It was splendid!" theysaid. but it was a little too strong for me, and besides, I wasobliged to mount up on my visit to Ole."It's moving day to day," he said. "streets and houses are likea dust bin a large dust bin. but I'm content with a cartload. I mayget something good out of that, and I really did get something goodout of it once. Shortly after Christmas I was going up the street.it was rough weather, wet and dirty the right kind of weather tocatch cold in. The dustman was there with his cart, which was full,and looked like a sample of streets on moving day. At the back ofthe cart stood a fir tree, quite green still, and with tinsel on itstwigs. it had been used on Christmas eve, and now it was thrown outinto the street, and the dustman had stood it up at the back of hiscart. It was droll to look at, or you may say it was mournful alldepends on what you think of when you see it. and I thought aboutit, and thought this and that of many things that were in the cart: orI might have done so, and that comes to the same thing. There was anold lady's glove, too: I wonder what that was thinking of? Shall Itell you? The glove was lying there, pointing with its little fingerat the tree. 'I'm sorry for the tree,' it thought. 'and I was alsoat the feast, where the chandeliers glittered. My life was, so tospeak, a ball night a pressure of the hand, and I burst! My memorykeeps dwelling upon that, and I have really nothing else to live for!'This is what the glove thought, or what it might have thought. 'That'sa stupid affair with yonder fir tree,' said the potsherds. You see,potsherds think everything is stupid. 'When one is in thedust cart,' they said, 'one ought not to give one's self airs and weartinsel. I know that I have been useful in the world far more usefulthan such a green stick.' This was a view that might be taken, and Idon't think it quite a peculiar one. but for all that, the fir treelooked very well: it was like a little poetry in the dust heap. andtruly there is dust enough in the streets on moving day. The way isdifficult and troublesome then, and I feel obliged to run away outof the confusion. or, if I am on the tower, I stay there and lookdown, and it is amusing enough."There are the good people below, playing at 'changing houses.'They toil and tug away with their goods and chattels, and thehousehold goblin sits in an old tub and moves with them. All thelittle griefs of the lodging and the family, and the real cares andsorrows, move with them out of the old dwelling into the new. and whatgain is there for them or for us in the whole affair? Yes, there waswritten long ago the good old maxim: 'Think on the great moving day ofdeath!' That is a serious thought. I hope it is not disagreeable toyou that I should have touched upon it? Death is the most certainmessenger, after all, in spite of his various occupations. Yes,Death is the omnibus conductor, and he is the passport writer, andhe countersigns our service book, and he is director of the savingsbank of life. Do you understand me? All the deeds of our life, thegreat and the little alike, we put into this savings bank. and whenDeath calls with his omnibus, and we have to step in, and drive withhim into the land of eternity, then on the frontier he gives us ourservice book as a pass. As a provision for the journey, he takesthis or that good deed we have done, and lets it accompany us. andthis may be very pleasant or very terrific. Nobody has ever escapedthe omnibus journey. There is certainly a talk about one who was notallowed to go they call him the Wandering Jew: he has to ridebehind the omnibus. If he had been allowed to get in, he would haveescaped the clutches of the poets."Just cast your mind's eye into that great omnibus. The society ismixed, for king and beggar, genius and idiot, sit side by side. Theymust go without their property and money. they have only theservice book and the gift out of the savings bank with them. But whichof our deeds is selected and given to us? Perhaps quite a littleone, one that we have forgotten, but which has been recorded small asa pea, but the pea can send out a blooming shoot. The poor bumpkin whosat on a low stool in the corner, and was jeered at and flouted,will perhaps have his worn out stool given him as a provision. and thestool may become a litter in the land of eternity, and rise up then asa throne, gleaming like gold and blooming as an arbor. He who alwayslounged about, and drank the spiced draught of pleasure, that he mightforget the wild things he had done here, will have his barrel given tohim on the journey, and will have to drink from it as they go on.and the drink is bright and clear, so that the thoughts remain pure,and all good and noble feelings are awakened, and he sees and feelswhat in life he could not or would not see. and then he has within himthe punishment, the gnawing worm, which will not die through timeincalculable. If on the glasses there stood written 'oblivion,' on thebarrel 'remembrance' is inscribed."When I read a good book, an historical work, I always think atlast of the poetry of what I am reading, and of the omnibus ofdeath, and wonder, which of the hero's deeds Death took out of thesavings bank for him, and what provisions he got on the journey intoeternity. There was once a French king I have forgotten his name, forthe names of good people are sometimes forgotten, even by me, but itwill come back some day. there was a king who, during a famine,became the benefactor of his people. and the people raised up to hismemory a monument of snow, with the inscription, 'Quicker than thismelts didst thou bring help!' I fancy that Death, looking back uponthe monument, gave him a single snow flake as provision, asnow flake that never melts, and this flake floated over his royalhead, like a white butterfly, into the land of eternity. Thus, too,there was Louis XI. I have remembered his name, for one remembers whatis bad a trait of him often comes into my thoughts, and I wish onecould say the story is not true. He had his lord high constableexecuted, and he could execute him, right or wrong. but he had theinnocent children of the constable, one seven and the other eightyears old, placed under the scaffold so that the warm blood of theirfather spurted over them, and then he had them sent to the Bastille,and shut up in iron cages, where not even a coverlet was given them toprotect them from the cold. And King Louis sent the executioner tothem every week, and had a tooth pulled out of the head of each,that they might not be too comfortable. and the elder of the boyssaid, 'My mother would die of grief if she knew that my youngerbrother had to suffer so cruelly. therefore pull out two of myteeth, and spare him.' The tears came into the hangman's eyes, but theking's will was stronger than the tears. and every week two littleteeth were brought to him on a silver plate. he had demanded them, andhe had them. I fancy that Death took these two teeth out of thesavings bank of life, and gave them to Louis XI, to carry with himon the great journey into the land of immortality. they fly before himlike two flames of fire. they shine and burn, and they bite him, theinnocent children's teeth."Yes, that's a serious journey, the omnibus ride on the greatmoving day! And when is it to be undertaken? That's just the seriouspart of it. Any day, any hour, any minute, the omnibus may draw up.Which of our deeds will Death take out of the savings bank, and giveto us as provision? Let us think of the moving day that is notmarked in the calendar."