There is nobody in the world who knows so many stories asOle Luk Oie, or who can relate them so nicely. In the evening, whilethe children are seated at the table or in their little chairs, hecomes up the stairs very softly, for he walks in his socks, then heopens the doors without the slightest noise, and throws a smallquantity of very fine dust in their eyes, just enough to preventthem from keeping them open, and so they do not see him. Then hecreeps behind them, and blows softly upon their necks, till theirheads begin to droop. But Ole Luk Oie does not wish to hurt them,for he is very fond of children, and only wants them to be quietthat he may relate to them pretty stories, and they never are quietuntil they are in bed and asleep. As soon as they are asleep,Ole Luk Oie seats himself upon the bed. He is nicely dressed. his coatis made of silken stuff. it is impossible to say of what color, for itchanges from green to red, and from red to blue as he turns fromside to side. Under each arm he carries an umbrella. one of them, withpictures on the inside, he spreads over the good children, and thenthey dream the most beautiful stories the whole night. But the otherumbrella has no pictures, and this he holds over the naughtychildren so that they sleep heavily, and wake in the morning withouthaving dreamed at all.Now we shall hear how Ole Luk Oie came every night during awhole week to the little boy named Hjalmar, and what he told him.There were seven stories, as there are seven days in the week.MONDAY"Now pay attention," said Ole Luk Oie, in the evening, whenHjalmar was in bed, "and I will decorate the room."Immediately all the flowers in the flower pots became large trees,with long branches reaching to the ceiling, and stretching along thewalls, so that the whole room was like a greenhouse. All thebranches were loaded with flowers, each flower as beautiful and asfragrant as a rose. and, had any one tasted them, he would havefound them sweeter even than jam. The fruit glittered like gold, andthere were cakes so full of plums that they were nearly bursting. Itwas incomparably beautiful. At the same time sounded dismal moans fromthe table drawer in which lay Hjalmar's school books."What can that be now?" said Ole Luk Oie, going to the table andpulling out the drawer.It was a slate, in such distress because of a false number inthe sum, that it had almost broken itself to pieces. The pencil pulledand tugged at its string as if it were a little dog that wanted tohelp, but could not.And then came a moan from Hjalmar's copy book. Oh, it was quiteterrible to hear! On each leaf stood a row of capital letters, everyone having a small letter by its side. This formed a copy. under thesewere other letters, which Hjalmar had written: they fancied theylooked like the copy, but they were mistaken. for they were leaning onone side as if they intended to fall over the pencil lines."See, this is the way you should hold yourselves," said thecopy. "Look here, you should slope thus, with a graceful curve.""Oh, we are very willing to do so, but we cannot," saidHjalmar's letters. "we are so wretchedly made.""You must be scratched out, then," said Ole Luk Oie."Oh, no!" they cried, and then they stood up so gracefully itwas quite a pleasure to look at them."Now we must give up our stories, and exercise these letters,"said Ole Luk Oie. "One, two one, two " So he drilled them tillthey stood up gracefully, and looked as beautiful as a copy couldlook. But after Ole Luk Oie was gone, and Hjalmar looked at them inthe morning, they were as wretched and as awkward as ever.TUESDAYAs soon as Hjalmar was in bed, Ole Luk Oie touched, with hislittle magic wand, all the furniture in the room, which immediatelybegan to chatter, and each article only talked of itself.Over the chest of drawers hung a large picture in a gilt frame,representing a landscape, with fine old trees, flowers in the grass,and a broad stream, which flowed through the wood, past severalcastles, far out into the wild ocean. Ole Luk Oie touched thepicture with his magic wand, and immediately the birds commencedsinging, the branches of the trees rustled, and the clouds movedacross the sky, casting their shadows on the landscape beneath them.Then Ole Luk Oie lifted little Hjalmar up to the frame, and placed hisfeet in the picture, just on the high grass, and there he stood withthe sun shining down upon him through the branches of the trees. Heran to the water, and seated himself in a little boat which lay there,and which was painted red and white. The sails glittered likesilver, and six swans, each with a golden circlet round its neck,and a bright blue star on its forehead, drew the boat past the greenwood, where the trees talked of robbers and witches, and the flowersof beautiful little elves and fairies, whose histories the butterflieshad related to them. Brilliant fish, with scales like silver and gold,swam after the boat, sometimes making a spring and splashing the waterround them, while birds, red and blue, small and great, flew after himin two long lines. The gnats danced round them, and the cockchaferscried "Buz, buz." They all wanted to follow Hjalmar, and all hadsome story to tell him. It was a most pleasant sail. Sometimes theforests were thick and dark, sometimes like a beautiful garden, gaywith sunshine and flowers. then he passed great palaces of glass andof marble, and on the balconies stood princesses, whose faces werethose of little girls whom Hjalmar knew well, and had often playedwith. One of them held out her hand, in which was a heart made ofsugar, more beautiful than any confectioner ever sold. As Hjalmarsailed by, he caught hold of one side of the sugar heart, and heldit fast, and the princess held fast also, so that it broke in twopieces. Hjalmar had one piece, and the princess the other, butHjalmar's was the largest. At each castle stood little princesacting as sentinels. They presented arms, and had golden swords, andmade it rain plums and tin soldiers, so that they must have beenreal princes.Hjalmar continued to sail, sometimes through woods, sometimes asit were through large halls, and then by large cities. At last he cameto the town where his nurse lived, who had carried him in her armswhen he was a very little boy, and had always been kind to him. Shenodded and beckoned to him, and then sang the little verses she hadherself composed and set to him, "How oft my memory turns to thee,My own Hjalmar, ever dear!When I could watch thy infant glee,Or kiss away a pearly tear.'Twas in my arms thy lisping tongueFirst spoke the half remembered word,While o'er thy tottering steps I hung,My fond protection to afford.Farewell! I pray the Heavenly PowerTo keep thee till thy dying hour."And all the birds sang the same tune, the flowers danced on theirstems, and the old trees nodded as if Ole Luk Oie had been tellingthem stories as well.WEDNESDAYHow the rain did pour down! Hjalmar could hear it in his sleep.and when Ole Luk Oie opened the window, the water flowed quite up tothe window sill. It had the appearance of a large lake outside, anda beautiful ship lay close to the house."Wilt thou sail with me to night, little Hjalmar?" saidOle Luk Oie. "then we shall see foreign countries, and thou shaltreturn here in the morning."All in a moment, there stood Hjalmar, in his best clothes, onthe deck of the noble ship. and immediately the weather became fine.They sailed through the streets, round by the church, and on everyside rolled the wide, great sea. They sailed till the landdisappeared, and then they saw a flock of storks, who had left theirown country, and were travelling to warmer climates. The storks flewone behind the other, and had already been a long, long time on thewing. One of them seemed so tired that his wings could scarcelycarry him. He was the last of the row, and was soon left very farbehind. At length he sunk lower and lower, with outstretched wings,flapping them in vain, till his feet touched the rigging of theship, and he slided from the sails to the deck, and stood before them.Then a sailor boy caught him, and put him in the hen house, with thefowls, the ducks, and the turkeys, while the poor stork stood quitebewildered amongst them."Just look at that fellow," said the chickens.Then the turkey cock puffed himself out as large as he could,and inquired who he was. and the ducks waddled backwards, crying,"Quack, quack."Then the stork told them all about warm Africa, of the pyramids,and of the ostrich, which, like a wild horse, runs across thedesert. But the ducks did not understand what he said, and quackedamongst themselves, "We are all of the same opinion. namely, that heis stupid.""Yes, to be sure, he is stupid," said the turkey cock. andgobbled.Then the stork remained quite silent, and thought of his home inAfrica."Those are handsome thin legs of yours," said the turkey cock."What do they cost a yard?""Quack, quack, quack," grinned the ducks. but, the stork pretendednot to hear."You may as well laugh," said the turkey. "for that remark wasrather witty, or perhaps it was above you. Ah, ah, is he not clever?He will be a great amusement to us while he remains here." And then hegobbled, and the ducks quacked, "Gobble, gobble. Quack, quack."What a terrible uproar they made, while they were having suchfun among themselves!Then Hjalmar went to the hen house. and, opening the door,called to the stork. Then he hopped out on the deck. He had restedhimself now, and he looked happy, and seemed as if he nodded toHjalmar, as if to thank him. Then he spread his wings, and flew awayto warmer countries, while the hens clucked, the ducks quacked, andthe turkey cock turned quite scarlet in the head."To morrow you shall be made into soup," said Hjalmar to thefowls. and then he awoke, and found himself lying in his little bed.It was a wonderful journey which Ole Luk Oie had made him takethis night.THURSDAY"What do you think I have got here?" said Ole Luk Oie, "Do notbe frightened, and you shall see a little mouse." And then he held outhis hand to him, in which lay a lovely little creature. "It has cometo invite you to a wedding. Two little mice are going to enter intothe marriage state tonight. They reside under the floor of yourmother's store room, and that must be a fine dwelling place.""But how can I get through the little mouse hole in the floor?"asked Hjalmar."Leave me to manage that," said Ole Luk Oie. "I will soon make yousmall enough." And then he touched Hjalmar with his magic wand,whereupon he became less and less, until at last he was not longerthan a little finger. "Now you can borrow the dress of the tinsoldier. I think it will just fit you. It looks well to wear a uniformwhen you go into company.""Yes, certainly," said Hjalmar. and in a moment he was dressedas neatly as the neatest of all tin soldiers."Will you be so good as to seat yourself in your mamma's thimble,"said the little mouse, "that I may have the pleasure of drawing you tothe wedding.""Will you really take so much trouble, young lady?" saidHjalmar. And so in this way he rode to the mouse's wedding.First they went under the floor, and then passed through a longpassage, which was scarcely high enough to allow the thimble todrive under, and the whole passage was lit up with the phosphorescentlight of rotten wood."Does it not smell delicious?" asked the mouse, as she drew himalong. "The wall and the floor have been smeared with bacon rind.nothing can be nicer."Very soon they arrived at the bridal hall. On the right stoodall the little lady mice, whispering and giggling, as if they weremaking game of each other. To the left were the gentlemen mice,stroking their whiskers with their fore paws. and in the centre of thehall could be seen the bridal pair, standing side by side, in a hollowcheese rind, and kissing each other, while all eyes were upon them.for they had already been betrothed, and were soon to be married. Moreand more friends kept arriving, till the mice were nearly treadingeach other to death. for the bridal pair now stood in the doorway, andnone could pass in or out.The room had been rubbed over with bacon rind, like the passage,which was all the refreshment offered to the guests. But for dessertthey produced a pea, on which a mouse belonging to the bridal pair hadbitten the first letters of their names. This was something quiteuncommon. All the mice said it was a very beautiful wedding, andthat they had been very agreeably entertained.After this, Hjalmar returned home. He had certainly been ingrand society. but he had been obliged to creep under a room, and tomake himself small enough to wear the uniform of a tin soldier.FRIDAY"It is incredible how many old people there are who would beglad to have me at night," said Ole Luk Oie, "especially those whohave done something wrong. 'Good little Ole,' say they to me, 'wecannot close our eyes, and we lie awake the whole night and see allour evil deeds sitting on our beds like little imps, and sprinkling uswith hot water. Will you come and drive them away, that we may havea good night's rest?' and then they sigh so deeply and say, 'Wewould gladly pay you for it. Good night, Ole Luk, the money lies onthe window.' But I never do anything for gold." "What shall we doto night?" asked Hjalmar. "I do not know whether you would care togo to another wedding," he replied, "although it is quite adifferent affair to the one we saw last night. Your sister's largedoll, that is dressed like a man, and is called Herman, intends tomarry the doll Bertha. It is also the dolls' birthday, and they willreceive many presents.""Yes, I know that already," said Hjalmar, "my sister always allowsher dolls to keep their birthdays or to have a wedding when theyrequire new clothes. that has happened already a hundred times, I amquite sure.""Yes, so it may. but to night is the hundred and first wedding,and when that has taken place it must be the last, therefore this isto be extremely beautiful. Only look."Hjalmar looked at the table, and there stood the little card boarddoll's house, with lights in all the windows, and drawn up before itwere the tin soldiers presenting arms. The bridal pair were seatedon the floor, leaning against the leg of the table, looking verythoughtful, and with good reason. Then Ole Luk Oie dressed up ingrandmother's black gown married them.As soon as the ceremony was concluded, all the furniture in theroom joined in singing a beautiful song, which had been composed bythe lead pencil, and which went to the melody of a military tattoo."What merry sounds are on the wind,As marriage rites together bindA quiet and a loving pair,Though formed of kid, yet smooth and fair!Hurrah! If they are deaf and blind,We'll sing, though weather prove unkind."And now came the present. but the bridal pair had nothing toeat, for love was to be their food."Shall we go to a country house, or travel?" asked the bridegroom.Then they consulted the swallow who had travelled so far, andthe old hen in the yard, who had brought up five broods of chickens.And the swallow talked to them of warm countries, where the grapeshang in large clusters on the vines, and the air is soft and mild, andabout the mountains glowing with colors more beautiful than we canthink of."But they have no red cabbage like we have," said the hen, "Iwas once in the country with my chickens for a whole summer, there wasa large sand pit, in which we could walk about and scratch as weliked. Then we got into a garden in which grew red cabbage. oh, hownice it was, I cannot think of anything more delicious.""But one cabbage stalk is exactly like another," said the swallow."and here we have often bad weather.""Yes, but we are accustomed to it," said the hen."But it is so cold here, and freezes sometimes.""Cold weather is good for cabbages," said the hen. "besides wedo have it warm here sometimes. Four years ago, we had a summer thatlasted more than five weeks, and it was so hot one could scarcelybreathe. And then in this country we have no poisonous animals, and weare free from robbers. He must be wicked who does not consider ourcountry the finest of all lands. He ought not to be allowed to livehere." And then the hen wept very much and said, "I have alsotravelled. I once went twelve miles in a coop, and it was not pleasanttravelling at all.""The hen is a sensible woman," said the doll Bertha. "I don't carefor travelling over mountains, just to go up and come down again.No, let us go to the sand pit in front of the gate, and then take awalk in the cabbage garden."And so they settled it.SATURDAY"Am I to hear any more stories?" asked little Hjalmar, as soonas Ole Luk Oie had sent him to sleep."We shall have no time this evening," said he, spreading out hisprettiest umbrella over the child. "Look at these Chinese," and thenthe whole umbrella appeared like a large china bowl, with blue treesand pointed bridges, upon which stood little Chinamen nodding theirheads. "We must make all the world beautiful for to morrow morning,"said Ole Luk Oie, "for it will be a holiday, it is Sunday. I mustnow go to the church steeple and see if the little sprites who livethere have polished the bells, so that they may sound sweetly. ThenI must go into the fields and see if the wind has blown the dustfrom the grass and the leaves, and the most difficult task of allwhich I have to do, is to take down all the stars and brighten themup. I have to number them first before I put them in my apron, andalso to number the places from which I take them, so that they maygo back into the right holes, or else they would not remain, and weshould have a number of falling stars, for they would all tumbledown one after the other.""Hark ye! Mr. Luk Oie," said an old portrait which hung on thewall of Hjalmar's bedroom. "Do you know me? I am Hjalmar'sgreat grandfather. I thank you for telling the boy stories, but youmust not confuse his ideas. The stars cannot be taken down from thesky and polished. they are spheres like our earth, which is a goodthing for them.""Thank you, old great grandfather," said Ole Luk Oie. "I thankyou. you may be the head of the family, as no doubt you are, but Iam older than you. I am an ancient heathen. The old Romans andGreeks named me the Dream god. I have visited the noblest houses,and continue to do so. still I know how to conduct myself both to highand low, and now you may tell the stories yourself:" and soOle Luk Oie walked off, taking his umbrellas with him."Well, well, one is never to give an opinion, I suppose," grumbledthe portrait. And it woke Hjalmar.SUNDAY"Good evening," said Ole Luk Oie.Hjalmar nodded, and then sprang out of bed, and turned hisgreat grandfather's portrait to the wall, so that it might notinterrupt them as it had done yesterday. "Now," said he, "you musttell me some stories about five green peas that lived in one pod. orof the chickseed that courted the chickweed. or of the darning needle,who acted so proudly because she fancied herself an embroideryneedle.""You may have too much of a good thing," said Ole Luk Oie. "Youknow that I like best to show you something, so I will show you mybrother. He is also called Ole Luk Oie but he never visits any one butonce, and when he does come, he takes him away on his horse, and tellshim stories as they ride along. He knows only two stories. One ofthese is so wonderfully beautiful, that no one in the world canimagine anything at all like it. but the other is just as ugly andfrightful, so that it would be impossible to describe it." ThenOle Luk Oie lifted Hjalmar up to the window. "There now, you can seemy brother, the other Ole Luk Oie. he is also called Death. Youperceive he is not so bad as they represent him in picture books.there he is a skeleton, but now his coat is embroidered with silver,and he wears the splendid uniform of a hussar, and a mantle of blackvelvet flies behind him, over the horse. Look, how he gallopsalong." Hjalmar saw that as this Ole Luk Oie rode on, he lifted up oldand young, and carried them away on his horse. Some he seated in frontof him, and some behind, but always inquired first, "How stands themark book?""Good," they all answered."Yes, but let me see for myself," he replied. and they wereobliged to give him the books. Then all those who had "Very good,"or "Exceedingly good," came in front of the horse, and heard thebeautiful story. while those who had "Middling," or "Tolerablygood," in their books, were obliged to sit behind, and listen to thefrightful tale. They trembled and cried, and wanted to jump downfrom the horse, but they could not get free, for they seemedfastened to the seat."Why, Death is a most splendid Luk Oie," said Hjalmar. "I am notin the least afraid of him.""You need have no fear of him," said Ole Luk Oie, "if you takecare and keep a good conduct book.""Now I call that very instructive," murmured thegreat grandfather's portrait. "It is useful sometimes to express anopinion." so he was quite satisfied.These are some of the doings and sayings of Ole Luk Oie. I hope hemay visit you himself this evening, and relate some more.