They were all good girls. but the youngest, named Balna, was moreclever than the rest. The Raja's wife died when they were quite littlechildren, so these seven poor Princesses were left with no mother totake care of them.The Raja's daughters took it by turns to cook their father's dinnerevery day, whilst he was absent deliberating with his Ministers on theaffairs of the nation.About this time the Prudhan died, leaving a widow and one daughter.and every day, every day, when the seven Princesses were preparingtheir father's dinner, the Prudhan's widow and daughter would come andbeg for a little fire from the hearth. Then Balna used to say to hersisters, "Send that woman away. send her away. Let her get the fire ather own house. What does she want with ours? If we allow her to comehere, we shall suffer for it some day."But the other sisters would answer, "Be quiet, Balna. why must youalways be quarrelling with this poor woman? Let her take some fire ifshe likes." Then the Prudhan's widow used to go to the hearth and takea few sticks from it. and whilst no one was looking, she would quicklythrow some mud into the midst of the dishes which were being preparedfor the Raja's dinner.Now the Raja was very fond of his daughters. Ever since their mother'sdeath they had cooked his dinner with their own hands, in order toavoid the danger of his being poisoned by his enemies. So, when hefound the mud mixed up with his dinner, he thought it must arise fromtheir carelessness, as it did not seem likely that any one should haveput mud there on purpose. but being very kind he did not like toreprove them for it, although this spoiling of the curry was repeatedmany successive days.At last, one day, he determined to hide, and watch his daughterscooking, and see how it all happened. so he went into the next room,and watched them through a hole in the wall.There he saw his seven daughters carefully washing the rice andpreparing the curry, and as each dish was completed, they put it bythe fire ready to be cooked. Next he noticed the Prudhan's widow cometo the door, and beg for a few sticks from the fire to cook herdinner with. Balna turned to her, angrily, and said, "Why don't youkeep fuel in your own house, and not come here every day and takeours? Sisters, don't give this woman any more wood. let her buy it forherself."Then the eldest sister answered, "Balna, let the poor woman take thewood and the fire. she does us no harm." But Balna replied, "If youlet her come here so often, maybe she will do us some harm, and makeus sorry for it, some day."The Raja then saw the Prudhan's widow go to the place where all hisdinner was nicely prepared, and, as she took the wood, she threw alittle mud into each of the dishes.At this he was very angry, and sent to have the woman seized andbrought before him. But when the widow came, she told him that she hadplayed this trick because she wanted to gain an audience with him. andshe spoke so cleverly, and pleased him so well with her cunning words,that instead of punishing her, the Raja married her, and made her hisRanee, and she and her daughter came to live in the palace.Now the new Ranee hated the seven poor Princesses, and wanted to getthem, if possible, out of the way, in order that her daughter mighthave all their riches, and live in the palace as Princess in theirplace. and instead of being grateful to them for their kindness toher, she did all she could to make them miserable. She gave themnothing but bread to eat, and very little of that, and very littlewater to drink. so these seven poor little Princesses, who had beenaccustomed to have everything comfortable about them, and good foodand good clothes all their lives long, were very miserable andunhappy. and they used to go out every day and sit by their deadmother's tomb and cry and say:"Oh mother, mother, cannot you see your poor children, how unhappy weare, and how we are starved by our cruel step mother?"One day, whilst they were thus sobbing and crying, lo and behold! abeautiful pomelo tree grew up out of the grave, covered with freshripe pomeloes, and the children satisfied their hunger by eating someof the fruit, and every day after this, instead of trying to eat thebad dinner their step mother provided for them, they used to go out totheir mother's grave and eat the pomeloes which grew there on thebeautiful tree.Then the Ranee said to her daughter, "I cannot tell how it is, everyday those seven girls say they don't want any dinner, and won't eatany. and yet they never grow thin nor look ill. they look better thanyou do. I cannot tell how it is." And she bade her watch the sevenPrincesses, and see if any one gave them anything to eat.So next day, when the Princesses went to their mother's grave, andwere eating the beautiful pomeloes, the Prudhan's daughter followedthem, and saw them gathering the fruit.Then Balna said to her sisters, "Do you not see that girl watching us?Let us drive her away, or hide the pomeloes, else she will go and tellher mother all about it, and that will be very bad for us."But the other sisters said, "Oh no, do not be unkind, Balna. The girlwould never be so cruel as to tell her mother. Let us rather inviteher to come and have some of the fruit." And calling her to them,they gave her one of the pomeloes.No sooner had she eaten it, however, than the Prudhan's daughter wenthome and said to her mother, "I do not wonder the seven Princesseswill not eat the dinner you prepare for them, for by their mother'sgrave there grows a beautiful pomelo tree, and they go there every dayand eat the pomeloes. I ate one, and it was the nicest I have evertasted."The cruel Ranee was much vexed at hearing this, and all next day shestayed in her room, and told the Raja that she had a very badheadache. The Raja was deeply grieved, and said to his wife, "What canI do for you?" She answered, "There is only one thing that will makemy headache well. By your dead wife's tomb there grows a fine pomelotree. you must bring that here, and boil it, root and branch, and puta little of the water in which it has been boiled, on my forehead, andthat will cure my headache." So the Raja sent his servants, and hadthe beautiful pomelo tree pulled up by the roots, and did as the Raneedesired. and when some of the water, in which it had been boiled, wasput on her forehead, she said her headache was gone and she felt quitewell.Next day, when the seven Princesses went as usual to the grave oftheir mother, the pomelo tree had disappeared. Then they all began tocry very bitterly.Now there was by the Ranee's tomb a small tank, and as they werecrying they saw that the tank was filled with a rich cream likesubstance, which quickly hardened into a thick white cake. At seeingthis all the Princesses were very glad, and they ate some of the cake,and liked it. and next day the same thing happened, and so it went onfor many days. Every morning the Princesses went to their mother'sgrave, and found the little tank filled with the nourishing cream likecake. Then the cruel step mother said to her daughter: "I cannot tellhow it is, I have had the pomelo tree which used to grow by theRanee's grave destroyed, and yet the Princesses grow no thinner, norlook more sad, though they never eat the dinner I give them. I cannottell how it is!"And her daughter said, "I will watch."Next day, while the Princesses were eating the cream cake, who shouldcome by but their step mother's daughter. Balna saw her first, andsaid, "See, sisters, there comes that girl again. Let us sit round theedge of the tank and not allow her to see it, for if we give her someof our cake, she will go and tell her mother. and that will be veryunfortunate for us."The other sisters, however, thought Balna unnecessarily suspicious,and instead of following her advice, they gave the Prudhan's daughtersome of the cake, and she went home and told her mother all about it.The Ranee, on hearing how well the Princesses fared, was exceedinglyangry, and sent her servants to pull down the dead Ranee's tomb, andfill the little tank with the ruins. And not content with this, shenext day pretended to be very, very ill in fact, at the point ofdeath and when the Raja was much grieved, and asked her whether itwas in his power to procure her any remedy, she said to him: "Only onething can save my life, but I know you will not do it." He replied,"Yes, whatever it is, I will do it." She then said, "To save my life,you must kill the seven daughters of your first wife, and put some oftheir blood on my forehead and on the palms of my hands, and theirdeath will be my life." At these words the Raja was very sorrowful.but because he feared to break his word, he went out with a heavyheart to find his daughters.He found them crying by the ruins of their mother's grave.Then, feeling he could not kill them, the Raja spoke kindly to them,and told them to come out into the jungle with him. and there he madea fire and cooked some rice, and gave it to them. But in theafternoon, it being very hot, the seven Princesses all fell asleep,and when he saw they were fast asleep, the Raja, their father, stoleaway and left them (for he feared his wife), saying to himself: "It isbetter my poor daughters should die here, than be killed by theirstep mother."He then shot a deer, and returning home, put some of its blood on theforehead and hands of the Ranee, and she thought then that he hadreally killed the Princesses, and said she felt quite well.Meantime the seven Princesses awoke, and when they found themselvesall alone in the thick jungle they were much frightened, and began tocall out as loud as they could, in hopes of making their father hear.but he was by that time far away, and would not have been able to hearthem even had their voices been as loud as thunder.It so happened that this very day the seven young sons of aneighbouring Raja chanced to be hunting in that same jungle, and asthey were returning home, after the day's sport was over, the youngestPrince said to his brothers: "Stop, I think I hear some one crying andcalling out. Do you not hear voices? Let us go in the direction ofthe sound, and find out what it is."So the seven Princes rode through the wood until they came to theplace where the seven Princesses sat crying and wringing their hands.At the sight of them the young Princes were very much astonished, andstill more so on learning their story. and they settled that eachshould take one of these poor forlorn ladies home with him, and marryher.So the first and eldest Prince took the eldest Princess home with him,and married her.And the second took the second.And the third took the third.And the fourth took the fourth.And the fifth took the fifth.And the sixth took the sixth.And the seventh, and the handsomest of all, took the beautiful Balna.And when they got to their own land, there was great rejoicingthroughout the kingdom, at the marriage of the seven young Princes toseven such beautiful Princesses.About a year after this Balna had a little son, and his uncles andaunts were so fond of the boy that it was as if he had seven fathersand seven mothers. None of the other Princes and Princesses had anychildren, so the son of the seventh Prince and Balna was acknowledgedtheir heir by all the rest.They had thus lived very happily for some time, when one fine day theseventh Prince (Balna's husband) said he would go out hunting, andaway he went. and they waited long for him, but he never came back.Then his six brothers said they would go and see what had become ofhim. and they went away, but they also did not return.And the seven Princesses grieved very much, for they feared that theirkind husbands must have been killed.One day, not long after this had happened, as Balna was rocking herbaby's cradle, and whilst her sisters were working in the room below,there came to the palace door a man in a long black dress, who saidthat he was a Fakir, and came to beg. The servants said to him, "Youcannot go into the palace the Raja's sons have all gone away. wethink they must be dead, and their widows cannot be interrupted byyour begging." But he said, "I am a holy man, you must let me in."Then the stupid servants let him walk through the palace, but they didnot know that this was no Fakir, but a wicked Magician named Punchkin.Punchkin Fakir wandered through the palace, and saw many beautifulthings there, till at last he reached the room where Balna sat singingbeside her little boy's cradle. The Magician thought her morebeautiful than all the other beautiful things he had seen, insomuchthat he asked her to go home with him and to marry him. But she said,"My husband, I fear, is dead, but my little boy is still quite young.I will stay here and teach him to grow up a clever man, and when he isgrown up he shall go out into the world, and try and learn tidings ofhis father. Heaven forbid that I should ever leave him, or marry you."At these words the Magician was very angry, and turned her into alittle black dog, and led her away. saying, "Since you will not comewith me of your own free will, I will make you." So the poor Princesswas dragged away, without any power of effecting an escape, or ofletting her sisters know what had become of her. As Punchkin passedthrough the palace gate the servants said to him, "Where did you getthat pretty little dog?" And he answered, "One of the Princesses gaveit to me as a present." At hearing which they let him go withoutfurther questioning.Soon after this, the six elder Princesses heard the little baby, theirnephew, begin to cry, and when they went upstairs they were muchsurprised to find him all alone, and Balna nowhere to be seen. Thenthey questioned the servants, and when they heard of the Fakir and thelittle black dog, they guessed what had happened, and sent in everydirection seeking them, but neither the Fakir nor the dog were to befound. What could six poor women do? They gave up all hopes of everseeing their kind husbands, and their sister, and her husband, again,and devoted themselves thenceforward to teaching and taking care oftheir little nephew.Thus time went on, till Balna's son was fourteen years old. Then, oneday, his aunts told him the history of the family. and no sooner didhe hear it, than he was seized with a great desire to go in search ofhis father and mother and uncles, and if he could find them alive tobring them home again. His aunts, on learning his determination, weremuch alarmed and tried to dissuade him, saying, "We have lost ourhusbands, and our sister and her husband, and you are now our solehope. if you go away, what shall we do?" But he replied, "I pray younot to be discouraged. I will return soon, and if it is possible bringmy father and mother and uncles with me." So he set out on histravels. but for some months he could learn nothing to help him inhis search.At last, after he had journeyed many hundreds of weary miles, andbecome almost hopeless of ever hearing anything further of hisparents, he one day came to a country that seemed full of stones, androcks, and trees, and there he saw a large palace with a high tower.hard by which was a Malee's little house.As he was looking about, the Malee's wife saw him, and ran out of thehouse and said, "My dear boy, who are you that dare venture to thisdangerous place?" He answered, "I am a Raja's son, and I come insearch of my father, and my uncles, and my mother whom a wickedenchanter bewitched."Then the Malee's wife said, "This country and this palace belong to agreat enchanter. he is all powerful, and if any one displeases him, hecan turn them into stones and trees. All the rocks and trees you seehere were living people once, and the Magician turned them to whatthey now are. Some time ago a Raja's son came here, and shortlyafterwards came his six brothers, and they were all turned into stonesand trees. and these are not the only unfortunate ones, for up in thattower lives a beautiful Princess, whom the Magician has kept prisonerthere for twelve years, because she hates him and will not marry him."Then the little Prince thought, "These must be my parents and myuncles. I have found what I seek at last." So he told his story to theMalee's wife, and begged her to help him to remain in that placeawhile and inquire further concerning the unhappy people shementioned. and she promised to befriend him, and advised hisdisguising himself lest the Magician should see him, and turn himlikewise into stone. To this the Prince agreed. So the Malee's wifedressed him up in a saree, and pretended that he was her daughter.One day, not long after this, as the Magician was walking in hisgarden he saw the little girl (as he thought) playing about, and askedher who she was. She told him she was the Malee's daughter, and theMagician said, "You are a pretty little girl, and to morrow you shalltake a present of flowers from me to the beautiful lady who lives inthe tower."The young Prince was much delighted at hearing this, and wentimmediately to inform the Malee's wife. after consultation with whomhe determined that it would be more safe for him to retain hisdisguise, and trust to the chance of a favourable opportunity forestablishing some communication with his mother, if it were indeedshe.Now it happened that at Balna's marriage her husband had given her asmall gold ring on which her name was engraved, and she had put it onher little son's finger when he was a baby, and afterwards when he wasolder his aunts had had it enlarged for him, so that he was still ableto wear it. The Malee's wife advised him to fasten the well knowntreasure to one of the bouquets he presented to his mother, and trustto her recognising it. This was not to be done without difficulty, assuch a strict watch was kept over the poor Princess (for fear of herever establishing communication with her friends), that though thesupposed Malee's daughter was permitted to take her flowers every day,the Magician or one of his slaves was always in the room at the time.At last one day, however, opportunity favoured him, and when no onewas looking, the boy tied the ring to a nosegay, and threw it atBalna's feet. It fell with a clang on the floor, and Balna, looking tosee what made the strange sound, found the little ring tied to theflowers. On recognising it, she at once believed the story her sontold her of his long search, and begged him to advise her as to whatshe had better do. at the same time entreating him on no account toendanger his life by trying to rescue her. She told him that fortwelve long years the Magician had kept her shut up in the towerbecause she refused to marry him, and she was so closely guarded thatshe saw no hope of release.Now Balna's son was a bright, clever boy, so he said, "Do not fear,dear mother. the first thing to do is to discover how far theMagician's power extends, in order that we may be able to liberate myfather and uncles, whom he has imprisoned in the form of rocks andtrees. You have spoken to him angrily for twelve long years. nowrather speak kindly. Tell him you have given up all hopes of againseeing the husband you have so long mourned, and say you are willingto marry him. Then endeavour to find out what his power consists in,and whether he is immortal, or can be put to death."Balna determined to take her son's advice. and the next day sent forPunchkin, and spoke to him as had been suggested.The Magician, greatly delighted, begged her to allow the wedding totake place as soon as possible.But she told him that before she married him he must allow her alittle more time, in which she might make his acquaintance, and that,after being enemies so long, their friendship could but strengthen bydegrees. "And do tell me," she said, "are you quite immortal? Candeath never touch you? And are you too great an enchanter ever to feelhuman suffering?""Why do you ask?" said he."Because," she replied, "if I am to be your wife, I would fain knowall about you, in order, if any calamity threatens you, to overcome,or if possible to avert it.""It is true," he added, "that I am not as others. Far, far away,hundreds of thousands of miles from this, there lies a desolatecountry covered with thick jungle. In the midst of the jungle grows acircle of palm trees, and in the centre of the circle stand sixchattees full of water, piled one above another: below the sixthchattee is a small cage which contains a little green parrot. on thelife of the parrot depends my life. and if the parrot is killed I mustdie. It is, however," he added, "impossible that the parrot shouldsustain any injury, both on account of the inaccessibility of thecountry, and because, by my appointment, many thousand genii surroundthe palm trees, and kill all who approach the place."Balna told her son what Punchkin had said. but at the same timeimplored him to give up all idea of getting the parrot.The Prince, however, replied, "Mother, unless I can get hold of thatparrot, you, and my father, and uncles, cannot be liberated: be notafraid, I will shortly return. Do you, meantime, keep the Magician ingood humour still putting off your marriage with him on variouspretexts. and before he finds out the cause of delay, I will be here."So saying, he went away.Many, many weary miles did he travel, till at last he came to a thickjungle. and, being very tired, sat down under a tree and fell asleep.He was awakened by a soft rustling sound, and looking about him, saw alarge serpent which was making its way to an eagle's nest built in thetree under which he lay, and in the nest were two young eagles. ThePrince seeing the danger of the young birds, drew his sword, andkilled the serpent. at the same moment a rushing sound was heard inthe air, and the two old eagles, who had been out hunting for food fortheir young ones, returned. They quickly saw the dead serpent and theyoung Prince standing over it. and the old mother eagle said to him,"Dear boy, for many years all our young ones have been devoured bythat cruel serpent. you have now saved the lives of our children.whenever you are in need, therefore, send to us and we will help you.and as for these little eagles, take them, and let them be yourservants."At this the Prince was very glad, and the two eaglets crossed theirwings, on which he mounted. and they carried him far, far away overthe thick jungles, until he came to the place where grew the circle ofpalm trees, in the midst of which stood the six chattees full ofwater. It was the middle of the day, and the heat was very great. Allround the trees were the genii fast asleep. nevertheless, there weresuch countless thousands of them, that it would have been quiteimpossible for any one to walk through their ranks to the place. downswooped the strong winged eaglets down jumped the Prince. in aninstant he had overthrown the six chattees full of water, and seizedthe little green parrot, which he rolled up in his cloak. while, ashe mounted again into the air, all the genii below awoke, and findingtheir treasure gone, set up a wild and melancholy howl.Away, away flew the little eagles, till they came to their home in thegreat tree. then the Prince said to the old eagles, "Take back yourlittle ones. they have done me good service. if ever again I stand inneed of help, I will not fail to come to you." He then continued hisjourney on foot till he arrived once more at the Magician's palace,where he sat down at the door and began playing with the parrot.Punchkin saw him, and came to him quickly, and said, "My boy, wheredid you get that parrot? Give it to me, I pray you."But the Prince answered, "Oh no, I cannot give away my parrot, it is agreat pet of mine. I have had it many years."Then the Magician said, "If it is an old favourite, I can understandyour not caring to give it away. but come what will you sell it for?""Sir," replied the Prince, "I will not sell my parrot."Then Punchkin got frightened, and said, "Anything, anything. name whatprice you will, and it shall be yours." The Prince answered, "Let theseven Raja's sons whom you turned into rocks and trees be instantlyliberated.""It is done as you desire," said the Magician, "only give me myparrot." And with that, by a stroke of his wand, Balna's husband andhis brothers resumed their natural shapes. "Now, give me my parrot,"repeated Punchkin."Not so fast, my master," rejoined the Prince. "I must firstbeg that you will restore to life all whom you have thus imprisoned."The Magician immediately waved his wand again. and, whilst he cried,in an imploring voice, "Give me my parrot!" the whole garden becamesuddenly alive: where rocks, and stones, and trees had been before,stood Rajas, and Punts, and Sirdars, and mighty men on prancinghorses, and jewelled pages, and troops of armed attendants."Give me my parrot!" cried Punchkin. Then the boy took hold of theparrot, and tore off one of its wings. and as he did so the Magician'sright arm fell off.Punchkin then stretched out his left arm, crying, "Give me my parrot!"The Prince pulled off the parrot's second wing, and the Magician'sleft arm tumbled off."Give me my parrot!" cried he, and fell on his knees. The Princepulled off the parrot's right leg, the Magician's right leg fell off:the Prince pulled off the parrot's left leg, down fell the Magician'sleft.Nothing remained of him save the limbless body and the head. but stillhe rolled his eyes, and cried, "Give me my parrot!" "Take your parrot,then," cried the boy, and with that he wrung the bird's neck, andthrew it at the Magician. and, as he did so, Punchkin's head twistedround, and, with a fearful groan, he died!Then they let Balna out of the tower. and she, her son, and the sevenPrinces went to their own country, and lived very happily everafterwards. And as to the rest of the world, every one went to his ownhouse.