future Buddha returned to life as his son and heir. And when the daycame for choosing a name, they called him Prince Brahma datta. He grewup in due course. and when he was sixteen years old, went toTakkasila, and became accomplished in all arts. And after his fatherdied he ascended the throne, and ruled the kingdom with righteousnessand equity. He gave judgments without partiality, hatred, ignorance,or fear. Since he thus reigned with justice, with justice also hisministers administered the law. Law suits being thus decided withjustice, there were none who brought false cases. And as these ceased,the noise and tumult of litigation ceased in the king's court. Thoughthe judges sat all day in the court, they had to leave without any onecoming for justice. It came to this, that the Hall of Justice wouldhave to be closed!Then the future Buddha thought, "It cannot be from my reigning withrighteousness that none come for judgment. the bustle has ceased, andthe Hall of Justice will have to be closed. I must, therefore, nowexamine into my own faults. and if I find that anything is wrong inme, put that away, and practise only virtue."Thenceforth he sought for some one to tell him his faults, but amongthose around him he found no one who would tell him of any fault, butheard only his own praise.Then he thought, "It is from fear of me that these men speak only goodthings, and not evil things," and he sought among those people wholived outside the palace. And finding no fault finder there, he soughtamong those who lived outside the city, in the suburbs, at the fourgates. And there too finding no one to find fault, and hearing onlyhis own praise, he determined to search the country places.So he made over the kingdom to his ministers, and mounted his chariot.and taking only his charioteer, left the city in disguise. Andsearching the country through, up to the very boundary, he found nofault finder, and heard only of his own virtue. and so he turned backfrom the outer most boundary, and returned by the high road towardsthe city.Now at that time the king of Kosala, Mallika by name, was also rulinghis kingdom with righteousness. and when seeking for some fault inhimself, he also found no fault finder in the palace but only heard ofhis own virtue! So seeking in country places, he too came to thatvery spot. And these two came face to face in a low cart track withprecipitous sides, where there was no space for a chariot to get outof the way!Then the charioteer of Mallika the king said to the charioteer of theking of Benares, "Take thy chariot out of the way!"But he said, "Take thy chariot out of the way, O charioteer! In thischariot sitteth the lord over the kingdom of Benares, the great kingBrahma datta."Yet the other replied, "In this chariot, O charioteer, sitteth thelord over the kingdom of Kosala, the great king Mallika. Take thycarriage out of the way, and make room for the chariot of our king!"Then the charioteer of the king of Benares thought, "They say thenthat he too is a king! What _is_ now to be done?" After someconsideration, he said to himself, "I know a way. I'll find out howold he is, and then I'll let the chariot of the younger be got out ofthe way, and so make room for the elder."And when he had arrived at that conclusion, he asked that charioteerwhat the age of the king of Kosala was. But on inquiry he found thatthe ages of both were equal. Then he inquired about the extent of hiskingdom, and about his army, and his wealth, and his renown, and aboutthe country he lived in, and his caste and tribe and family. And hefound that both were lords of a kingdom three hundred leagues inextent. and that in respect of army and wealth and renown, and thecountries in which they lived, and their caste and their tribe andtheir family, they were just on a par!Then he thought, "I will make way for the most righteous." And heasked, "What kind of righteousness has this king of yours?"Then the chorister of the king of Kosala, proclaiming his king'swickedness as goodness, uttered the First Stanza:"The strong he overthrows by strength,The mild by mildness, does Mallika.The good he conquers by goodness,And the wicked by wickedness too.Such is the nature of _this_ king!Move out of the way, O charioteer!"But the charioteer of the king of Benares asked him, "Well, have youtold all the virtues of your king?""Yes," said the other."If these are his _virtues_, where are then his faults?" replied he.The other said, "Well, for the nonce, they shall be faults, if youlike! But pray, then, what is the kind of goodness your king has?"And then the charioteer of the king of Benares called unto him tohearken, and uttered the Second Stanza:"Anger he conquers by calmness,And by goodness the wicked.The stingy he conquers by gifts,And by truth the speaker of lies.Such is the nature of _this_ king!Move out of the way, O charioteer!"And when he had thus spoken, both Mallika the king and his charioteeralighted from their chariot. And they took out the horses, and removedtheir chariot, and made way for the king of Benares!