bright beady eyes and stiff grey whiskers and his tail was like a longbit of black india rubber. The little ducks were swimming about in thepond, looking just like a lot of yellow canaries, and their mother, whowas pure white with real red legs, was trying to teach them how to standon their heads in the water."You will never be in the best society unless you can stand on yourheads," she kept saying to them. and every now and then she showed themhow it was done. But the little ducks paid no attention to her. Theywere so young that they did not know what an advantage it is to be insociety at all."What disobedient children!" cried the old Water rat. "they reallydeserve to be drowned.""Nothing of the kind," answered the Duck, "every one must make abeginning, and parents cannot be too patient.""Ah! I know nothing about the feelings of parents," said the Water rat."I am not a family man. In fact, I have never been married, and I neverintend to be. Love is all very well in its way, but friendship is muchhigher. Indeed, I know of nothing in the world that is either nobler orrarer than a devoted friendship.""And what, pray, is your idea of the duties of a devoted friend?" asked aGreen Linnet, who was sitting in a willow tree hard by, and had overheardthe conversation."Yes, that is just what I want to know," said the Duck. and she swam awayto the end of the pond, and stood upon her head, in order to give herchildren a good example."What a silly question!" cried the Water rat. "I should expect mydevoted friend to be devoted to me, of course.""And what would you do in return?" said the little bird, swinging upon asilver spray, and flapping his tiny wings."I don't understand you," answered the Water rat."Let me tell you a story on the subject," said the Linnet."Is the story about me?" asked the Water rat. "If so, I will listen toit, for I am extremely fond of fiction.""It is applicable to you," answered the Linnet. and he flew down, andalighting upon the bank, he told the story of The Devoted Friend."Once upon a time," said the Linnet, "there was an honest little fellownamed Hans.""Was he very distinguished?" asked the Water rat."No," answered the Linnet, "I don't think he was distinguished at all,except for his kind heart, and his funny round good humoured face. Helived in a tiny cottage all by himself, and every day he worked in hisgarden. In all the country side there was no garden so lovely as his.Sweet william grew there, and Gilly flowers, and Shepherds' purses, andFair maids of France. There were damask Roses, and yellow Roses, lilacCrocuses, and gold, purple Violets and white. Columbine and Ladysmock,Marjoram and Wild Basil, the Cowslip and the Flower de luce, the Daffodiland the Clove Pink bloomed or blossomed in their proper order as themonths went by, one flower taking another flower's place, so that therewere always beautiful things to look at, and pleasant odours to smell."Little Hans had a great many friends, but the most devoted friend of allwas big Hugh the Miller. Indeed, so devoted was the rich Miller tolittle Hans, that he would never go by his garden without leaning overthe wall and plucking a large nosegay, or a handful of sweet herbs, orfilling his pockets with plums and cherries if it was the fruit season."'Real friends should have everything in common,' the Miller used to say,and little Hans nodded and smiled, and felt very proud of having a friendwith such noble ideas."Sometimes, indeed, the neighbours thought it strange that the richMiller never gave little Hans anything in return, though he had a hundredsacks of flour stored away in his mill, and six milch cows, and a largeflock of woolly sheep. but Hans never troubled his head about thesethings, and nothing gave him greater pleasure than to listen to all thewonderful things the Miller used to say about the unselfishness of truefriendship."So little Hans worked away in his garden. During the spring, thesummer, and the autumn he was very happy, but when the winter came, andhe had no fruit or flowers to bring to the market, he suffered a gooddeal from cold and hunger, and often had to go to bed without any supperbut a few dried pears or some hard nuts. In the winter, also, he wasextremely lonely, as the Miller never came to see him then."'There is no good in my going to see little Hans as long as the snowlasts,' the Miller used to say to his wife, 'for when people are introuble they should be left alone, and not be bothered by visitors. Thatat least is my idea about friendship, and I am sure I am right. So Ishall wait till the spring comes, and then I shall pay him a visit, andhe will be able to give me a large basket of primroses and that will makehim so happy.'"'You are certainly very thoughtful about others,' answered the Wife, asshe sat in her comfortable armchair by the big pinewood fire. 'verythoughtful indeed. It is quite a treat to hear you talk aboutfriendship. I am sure the clergyman himself could not say such beautifulthings as you do, though he does live in a three storied house, and weara gold ring on his little finger.'"'But could we not ask little Hans up here?' said the Miller's youngestson. 'If poor Hans is in trouble I will give him half my porridge, andshow him my white rabbits.'"'What a silly boy you are!' cried the Miller. 'I really don't know whatis the use of sending you to school. You seem not to learn anything.Why, if little Hans came up here, and saw our warm fire, and our goodsupper, and our great cask of red wine, he might get envious, and envy isa most terrible thing, and would spoil anybody's nature. I certainlywill not allow Hans' nature to be spoiled. I am his best friend, and Iwill always watch over him, and see that he is not led into anytemptations. Besides, if Hans came here, he might ask me to let him havesome flour on credit, and that I could not do. Flour is one thing, andfriendship is another, and they should not be confused. Why, the wordsare spelt differently, and mean quite different things. Everybody cansee that.'"'How well you talk!' said the Miller's Wife, pouring herself out a largeglass of warm ale. 'really I feel quite drowsy. It is just like being inchurch.'"'Lots of people act well,' answered the Miller. 'but very few peopletalk well, which shows that talking is much the more difficult thing ofthe two, and much the finer thing also'. and he looked sternly across thetable at his little son, who felt so ashamed of himself that he hung hishead down, and grew quite scarlet, and began to cry into his tea.However, he was so young that you must excuse him.""Is that the end of the story?" asked the Water rat."Certainly not," answered the Linnet, "that is the beginning.""Then you are quite behind the age," said the Water rat. "Every goodstory teller nowadays starts with the end, and then goes on to thebeginning, and concludes with the middle. That is the new method. Iheard all about it the other day from a critic who was walking round thepond with a young man. He spoke of the matter at great length, and I amsure he must have been right, for he had blue spectacles and a bald head,and whenever the young man made any remark, he always answered 'Pooh!'But pray go on with your story. I like the Miller immensely. I have allkinds of beautiful sentiments myself, so there is a great sympathybetween us.""Well," said the Linnet, hopping now on one leg and now on the other, "assoon as the winter was over, and the primroses began to open their paleyellow stars, the Miller said to his wife that he would go down and seelittle Hans."'Why, what a good heart you have!' cried his Wife. 'you are alwaysthinking of others. And mind you take the big basket with you for theflowers.'"So the Miller tied the sails of the windmill together with a strong ironchain, and went down the hill with the basket on his arm."'Good morning, little Hans,' said the Miller."'Good morning,' said Hans, leaning on his spade, and smiling from ear toear."'And how have you been all the winter?' said the Miller."'Well, really,' cried Hans, 'it is very good of you to ask, very goodindeed. I am afraid I had rather a hard time of it, but now the springhas come, and I am quite happy, and all my flowers are doing well.'"'We often talked of you during the winter, Hans,' said the Miller, 'andwondered how you were getting on.'"'That was kind of you,' said Hans. 'I was half afraid you had forgottenme.'"'Hans, I am surprised at you,' said the Miller. 'friendship neverforgets. That is the wonderful thing about it, but I am afraid you don'tunderstand the poetry of life. How lovely your primroses are looking,by the bye!""'They are certainly very lovely,' said Hans, 'and it is a most luckything for me that I have so many. I am going to bring them into themarket and sell them to the Burgomaster's daughter, and buy back mywheelbarrow with the money.'"'Buy back your wheelbarrow? You don't mean to say you have sold it?What a very stupid thing to do!'"'Well, the fact is,' said Hans, 'that I was obliged to. You see thewinter was a very bad time for me, and I really had no money at all tobuy bread with. So I first sold the silver buttons off my Sunday coat,and then I sold my silver chain, and then I sold my big pipe, and at lastI sold my wheelbarrow. But I am going to buy them all back again now.'"'Hans,' said the Miller, 'I will give you my wheelbarrow. It is not invery good repair. indeed, one side is gone, and there is something wrongwith the wheel spokes. but in spite of that I will give it to you. Iknow it is very generous of me, and a great many people would think meextremely foolish for parting with it, but I am not like the rest of theworld. I think that generosity is the essence of friendship, and,besides, I have got a new wheelbarrow for myself. Yes, you may set yourmind at ease, I will give you my wheelbarrow.'"'Well, really, that is generous of you,' said little Hans, and his funnyround face glowed all over with pleasure. 'I can easily put it inrepair, as I have a plank of wood in the house.'"'A plank of wood!' said the Miller. 'why, that is just what I want forthe roof of my barn. There is a very large hole in it, and the corn willall get damp if I don't stop it up. How lucky you mentioned it! It isquite remarkable how one good action always breeds another. I have givenyou my wheelbarrow, and now you are going to give me your plank. Ofcourse, the wheelbarrow is worth far more than the plank, but true,friendship never notices things like that. Pray get it at once, and Iwill set to work at my barn this very day.'"'Certainly,' cried little Hans, and he ran into the shed and dragged theplank out."'It is not a very big plank,' said the Miller, looking at it, 'and I amafraid that after I have mended my barn roof there won't be any left foryou to mend the wheelbarrow with. but, of course, that is not my fault.And now, as I have given you my wheelbarrow, I am sure you would like togive me some flowers in return. Here is the basket, and mind you fill itquite full.'"'Quite full?' said little Hans, rather sorrowfully, for it was really avery big basket, and he knew that if he filled it he would have noflowers left for the market and he was very anxious to get his silverbuttons back."'Well, really,' answered the Miller, 'as I have given you mywheelbarrow, I don't think that it is much to ask you for a few flowers.I may be wrong, but I should have thought that friendship, truefriendship, was quite free from selfishness of any kind.'"'My dear friend, my best friend,' cried little Hans, 'you are welcome toall the flowers in my garden. I would much sooner have your good opinionthan my silver buttons, any day'. and he ran and plucked all his prettyprimroses, and filled the Miller's basket."'Good bye, little Hans,' said the Miller, as he went up the hill withthe plank on his shoulder, and the big basket in his hand."'Good bye,' said little Hans, and he began to dig away quite merrily, hewas so pleased about the wheelbarrow."The next day he was nailing up some honeysuckle against the porch, whenhe heard the Miller's voice calling to him from the road. So he jumpedoff the ladder, and ran down the garden, and looked over the wall."There was the Miller with a large sack of flour on his back."'Dear little Hans,' said the Miller, 'would you mind carrying this sackof flour for me to market?'"'Oh, I am so sorry,' said Hans, 'but I am really very busy to day. Ihave got all my creepers to nail up, and all my flowers to water, and allmy grass to roll.'"'Well, really,' said the Miller, 'I think that, considering that I amgoing to give you my wheelbarrow, it is rather unfriendly of you torefuse.'"'Oh, don't say that,' cried little Hans, 'I wouldn't be unfriendly forthe whole world'. and he ran in for his cap, and trudged off with the bigsack on his shoulders."It was a very hot day, and the road was terribly dusty, and before Hanshad reached the sixth milestone he was so tired that he had to sit downand rest. However, he went on bravely, and as last he reached themarket. After he had waited there some time, he sold the sack of flourfor a very good price, and then he returned home at once, for he wasafraid that if he stopped too late he might meet some robbers on the way."'It has certainly been a hard day,' said little Hans to himself as hewas going to bed, 'but I am glad I did not refuse the Miller, for he ismy best friend, and, besides, he is going to give me his wheelbarrow.'"Early the next morning the Miller came down to get the money for hissack of flour, but little Hans was so tired that he was still in bed."'Upon my word,' said the Miller, 'you are very lazy. Really,considering that I am going to give you my wheelbarrow, I think you mightwork harder. Idleness is a great sin, and I certainly don't like any ofmy friends to be idle or sluggish. You must not mind my speaking quiteplainly to you. Of course I should not dream of doing so if I were notyour friend. But what is the good of friendship if one cannot sayexactly what one means? Anybody can say charming things and try toplease and to flatter, but a true friend always says unpleasant things,and does not mind giving pain. Indeed, if he is a really true friend heprefers it, for he knows that then he is doing good.'"'I am very sorry,' said little Hans, rubbing his eyes and pulling offhis night cap, 'but I was so tired that I thought I would lie in bed fora little time, and listen to the birds singing. Do you know that Ialways work better after hearing the birds sing?'"'Well, I am glad of that,' said the Miller, clapping little Hans on theback, 'for I want you to come up to the mill as soon as you are dressed,and mend my barn roof for me.'"Poor little Hans was very anxious to go and work in his garden, for hisflowers had not been watered for two days, but he did not like to refusethe Miller, as he was such a good friend to him."'Do you think it would be unfriendly of me if I said I was busy?' heinquired in a shy and timid voice."'Well, really,' answered the Miller, 'I do not think it is much to askof you, considering that I am going to give you my wheelbarrow. but ofcourse if you refuse I will go and do it myself.'"'Oh! on no account,' cried little Hans and he jumped out of bed, anddressed himself, and went up to the barn."He worked there all day long, till sunset, and at sunset the Miller cameto see how he was getting on."'Have you mended the hole in the roof yet, little Hans?' cried theMiller in a cheery voice."'It is quite mended,' answered little Hans, coming down the ladder."'Ah!' said the Miller, 'there is no work so delightful as the work onedoes for others.'"'It is certainly a great privilege to hear you talk,' answered littleHans, sitting down, and wiping his forehead, 'a very great privilege.But I am afraid I shall never have such beautiful ideas as you have.'"'Oh! they will come to you,' said the Miller, 'but you must take morepains. At present you have only the practice of friendship. some day youwill have the theory also.'"'Do you really think I shall?' asked little Hans."'I have no doubt of it,' answered the Miller, 'but now that you havemended the roof, you had better go home and rest, for I want you to drivemy sheep to the mountain to morrow.'"Poor little Hans was afraid to say anything to this, and early the nextmorning the Miller brought his sheep round to the cottage, and Hansstarted off with them to the mountain. It took him the whole day to getthere and back. and when he returned he was so tired that he went off tosleep in his chair, and did not wake up till it was broad daylight."'What a delightful time I shall have in my garden,' he said, and he wentto work at once."But somehow he was never able to look after his flowers at all, for hisfriend the Miller was always coming round and sending him off on longerrands, or getting him to help at the mill. Little Hans was very muchdistressed at times, as he was afraid his flowers would think he hadforgotten them, but he consoled himself by the reflection that the Millerwas his best friend. 'Besides,' he used to say, 'he is going to give mehis wheelbarrow, and that is an act of pure generosity.'"So little Hans worked away for the Miller, and the Miller said all kindsof beautiful things about friendship, which Hans took down in anote book, and used to read over at night, for he was a very goodscholar."Now it happened that one evening little Hans was sitting by his firesidewhen a loud rap came at the door. It was a very wild night, and the windwas blowing and roaring round the house so terribly that at first hethought it was merely the storm. But a second rap came, and then athird, louder than any of the others."'It is some poor traveller,' said little Hans to himself, and he ran tothe door."There stood the Miller with a lantern in one hand and a big stick in theother."'Dear little Hans,' cried the Miller, 'I am in great trouble. My littleboy has fallen off a ladder and hurt himself, and I am going for theDoctor. But he lives so far away, and it is such a bad night, that ithas just occurred to me that it would be much better if you went insteadof me. You know I am going to give you my wheelbarrow, and so, it isonly fair that you should do something for me in return.'"'Certainly,' cried little Hans, 'I take it quite as a compliment yourcoming to me, and I will start off at once. But you must lend me yourlantern, as the night is so dark that I am afraid I might fall into theditch.'"'I am very sorry,' answered the Miller, 'but it is my new lantern, andit would be a great loss to me if anything happened to it.'"'Well, never mind, I will do without it,' cried little Hans, and he tookdown his great fur coat, and his warm scarlet cap, and tied a mufflerround his throat, and started off."What a dreadful storm it was! The night was so black that little Hanscould hardly see, and the wind was so strong that he could scarcelystand. However, he was very courageous, and after he had been walkingabout three hours, he arrived at the Doctor's house, and knocked at thedoor."'Who is there?' cried the Doctor, putting his head out of his bedroomwindow."'Little Hans, Doctor.'"'What do you want, little Hans?'"'The Miller's son has fallen from a ladder, and has hurt himself, andthe Miller wants you to come at once.'"'All right!' said the Doctor. and he ordered his horse, and his bigboots, and his lantern, and came downstairs, and rode off in thedirection of the Miller's house, little Hans trudging behind him."But the storm grew worse and worse, and the rain fell in torrents, andlittle Hans could not see where he was going, or keep up with the horse.At last he lost his way, and wandered off on the moor, which was a verydangerous place, as it was full of deep holes, and there poor little Hanswas drowned. His body was found the next day by some goatherds, floatingin a great pool of water, and was brought back by them to the cottage."Everybody went to little Hans' funeral, as he was so popular, and theMiller was the chief mourner."'As I was his best friend,' said the Miller, 'it is only fair that Ishould have the best place'. so he walked at the head of the processionin a long black cloak, and every now and then he wiped his eyes with abig pocket handkerchief."'Little Hans is certainly a great loss to every one,' said theBlacksmith, when the funeral was over, and they were all seatedcomfortably in the inn, drinking spiced wine and eating sweet cakes."'A great loss to me at any rate,' answered the Miller. 'why, I had asgood as given him my wheelbarrow, and now I really don't know what to dowith it. It is very much in my way at home, and it is in such bad repairthat I could not get anything for it if I sold it. I will certainly takecare not to give away anything again. One always suffers for beinggenerous.'""Well?" said the Water rat, after a long pause."Well, that is the end," said the Linnet."But what became of the Miller?" asked the Water rat."Oh! I really don't know," replied the Linnet. "and I am sure that Idon't care.""It is quite evident then that you have no sympathy in your nature," saidthe Water rat."I am afraid you don't quite see the moral of the story," remarked theLinnet."The what?" screamed the Water rat."The moral.""Do you mean to say that the story has a moral?""Certainly," said the Linnet."Well, really," said the Water rat, in a very angry manner, "I think youshould have told me that before you began. If you had done so, Icertainly would not have listened to you. in fact, I should have said'Pooh,' like the critic. However, I can say it now". so he shouted out"Pooh" at the top of his voice, gave a whisk with his tail, and went backinto his hole."And how do you like the Water rat?" asked the Duck, who came paddling upsome minutes afterwards. "He has a great many good points, but for myown part I have a mother's feelings, and I can never look at a confirmedbachelor without the tears coming into my eyes.""I am rather afraid that I have annoyed him," answered the Linnet. "Thefact is, that I told him a story with a moral.""Ah! that is always a very dangerous thing to do," said the Duck.And I quite agree with her.