father's chief vizier, when one of the arrows accidentally struck thewife of a merchant, who was walking about in an upper room of a houseclose by. The prince aimed at a bird that was perched on thewindow sill of that room, and had not the slightest idea that anybodywas at hand, or he would not have shot in that direction.Consequently, not knowing what had happened, he and the vizier's sonwalked away, the vizier's son chaffing him because he had missed thebird.Presently the merchant went to ask his wife about something, and foundher lying, to all appearance, dead in the middle of the room, and anarrow fixed in the ground within half a yard of her head. Supposingthat she was dead, he rushed to the window and shrieked, "Thievesthieves! They have killed my wife." The neighbours quickly gathered,and the servants came running upstairs to see what was the matter. Ithappened that the woman had fainted, and that there was only a veryslight wound in her breast where the arrow had grazed.As soon as the woman recovered her senses she told them that two youngmen had passed by the place with their bows and arrows, and that oneof them had most deliberately aimed at her as she stood by the window.On hearing this the merchant went to the king, and told him what hadtaken place. His Majesty was much enraged at such audaciouswickedness, and swore that most terrible punishment should be visitedon the offender if he could be discovered. He ordered the merchant togo back and ascertain whether his wife could recognise the young menif she saw them again."Oh yes," replied the woman, "I should know them again among all thepeople in the city.""Then," said the king, when the merchant brought back this reply,"to morrow I will cause all the male inhabitants of this city to passbefore your house, and your wife will stand at the window and watchfor the man who did this wanton deed."A royal proclamation was issued to this effect. So the next day allthe men and boys of the city, from the age of ten years upwards,assembled and marched by the house of the merchant. By chance (forthey both had been excused from obeying this order) the king's son andthe vizier's son were also in the company, and passed by in the crowd.They came to see the tamasha.As soon as these two appeared in front of the merchant's window theywere recognised by the merchant's wife, and at once reported to theking."My own son and the son of my chief vizier!" exclaimed the king, whohad been present from the commencement. "What examples for the people!Let them both be executed.""Not so, your Majesty," said the vizier, "I beseech you. Let the factsof the case be thoroughly investigated. How is it?" he continued,turning to the two young men. "Why have you done this cruel thing?""I shot an arrow at a bird that was sitting on the sill of an openwindow in yonder house, and missed," answered the prince. "I supposethe arrow struck the merchant's wife. Had I known that she or anybodyhad been near I should not have shot in that direction.""We will speak of this later on," said the king, on hearing thisanswer. "Dismiss the people. Their presence is no longer needed."In the evening his Majesty and the vizier had a long and earnest talkabout their two sons. The king wished both of them to be executed. butthe vizier suggested that the prince should be banished from thecountry. This was finally agreed to.Accordingly, on the following morning, a little company of soldiersescorted the prince out of the city. When they reached the lastcustom house the vizier's son overtook them. He had come with allhaste, bringing with him four bags of muhrs on four horses. "I amcome," he said, throwing his arms round the prince's neck, "because Icannot let you go alone. We have lived together, we will be exiledtogether, and we will die together. Turn me not back, if you love me.""Consider," the prince answered, "what you are doing. All kinds oftrial may be before me. Why should you leave your home and country tobe with me?""Because I love you," he said, "and shall never be happy without you."So the two friends walked along hand in hand as fast as they could toget out of the country, and behind them marched the soldiers and thehorses with their valuable burdens. On reaching a place on the bordersof the king's dominions the prince gave the soldiers some gold, andordered them to return. The soldiers took the money and left. they didnot, however, go very far, but hid themselves behind rocks and stones,and waited till they were quite sure that the prince did not intend tocome back.On and on the exiles walked, till they arrived at a certain village,where they determined to spend the night under one of the big trees ofthe place. The prince made preparations for a fire, and arranged thefew articles of bedding that they had with them, while the vizier'sson went to the baniya and the baker and the butcher to get somethingfor their dinner. For some reason he was delayed. perhaps the tsut wasnot quite ready, or the baniya had not got all the spices prepared.After waiting half an hour the prince became impatient, and rose upand walked about.He saw a pretty, clear little brook running along not far from theirresting place, and hearing that its source was not far distant, hestarted off to find it. The source was a beautiful lake, which at thattime was covered with the magnificent lotus flower and other waterplants. The prince sat down on the bank, and being thirsty took upsome of the water in his hand. Fortunately he looked into his handbefore drinking, and there, to his great astonishment, he sawreflected whole and clear the image of a beautiful fairy. He lookedround, hoping to see the reality. but seeing no person, he drank thewater, and put out his hand to take some more. Again he saw thereflection in the water which was in his palm. He looked around asbefore, and this time discovered a fairy sitting by the bank on theopposite side of the lake. On seeing her he fell so madly in love withher that he dropped down in a swoon.When the vizier's son returned, and found the fire lighted, the horsessecurely fastened, and the bags of muhrs lying altogether in a heap,but no prince, he did not know what to think. He waited a littlewhile, and then shouted. but not getting any reply, he got up and wentto the brook. There he came across the footmarks of his friend. Seeingthese, he went back at once for the money and the horses, and bringingthem with him, he tracked the prince to the lake, where he found himlying to all appearance dead."Alas! alas!" he cried, and lifting up the prince, he poured somewater over his head and face. "Alas! my brother, what is this? Oh! donot die and leave me thus. Speak, speak! I cannot bear this!"In a few minutes the prince, revived by the water, opened his eyes,and looked about wildly."Thank God!" exclaimed the vizier's son. "But what is the matter,brother?""Go away," replied the prince. "I don't want to say anything to you,or to see you. Go away.""Come, come. let us leave this place. Look, I have brought some foodfor you, and horses, and everything. Let us eat and depart.""Go alone," replied the prince."Never," said the vizier's son. "What has happened to suddenlyestrange you from me? A little while ago we were brethren, but now youdetest the sight of me.""I have looked upon a fairy," the prince said. "But a moment I saw herface. for when she noticed that I was looking at her she covered herface with lotus petals. Oh, how beautiful she was! And while I gazedshe took out of her bosom an ivory box, and held it up to me. Then Ifainted. Oh! if you can get me that fairy for my wife, I will goanywhere with you.""Oh, brother," said the vizier's son, "you have indeed seen a fairy.She is a fairy of the fairies. This is none other than Gulizar of theIvory City. I know this from the signs that she gave you. From hercovering her face with lotus petals I learn her name, and from hershowing you the ivory box I learn where she lives. Be patient, andrest assured that I will arrange your marriage with her."When the prince heard these encouraging words he felt much comforted,rose up, and ate, and then went away gladly with his friend.On the way they met two men. These two men belonged to a family ofrobbers. There were eleven of them altogether. One, an elder sister,stayed at home and cooked the food, and the other ten allbrothers went out, two and two, and walked about the four differentways that ran through that part of the country, robbing thosetravellers who could not resist them, and inviting others, who weretoo powerful for two of them to manage, to come and rest at theirhouse, where the whole family attacked them and stole their goods.These thieves lived in a kind of tower, which had several strong roomsin it, and under it was a great pit, wherein they threw the corpses ofthe poor unfortunates who chanced to fall into their power.The two men came forward, and, politely accosting them, begged them tocome and stay at their house for the night. "It is late," they said,"and there is not another village within several miles.""Shall we accept this good man's invitation, brother?" asked theprince.The vizier's son frowned slightly in token of disapproval. but theprince was tired, and thinking that it was only a whim of hisfriend's, he said to the men, "Very well. It is very kind of you toask us."So they all four went to the robbers' tower.Seated in a room, with the door fastened on the outside, the twotravellers bemoaned their fate."It is no good groaning," said the vizier's son. "I will climb to thewindow, and see whether there are any means of escape. Yes! yes!" hewhispered, when he had reached the window hole. "Below there is aditch surrounded by a high wall. I will jump down and reconnoitre. Youstay here, and wait till I return."Presently he came back and told the prince that he had seen a mostugly woman, whom he supposed was the robbers' housekeeper. She hadagreed to release them on the promise of her marriage with the prince.So the woman led the way out of the enclosure by a secret door."But where are the horses and the goods?" the vizier's son inquired."You cannot bring them," the woman said. "To go out by any other waywould be to thrust oneself into the grave.""All right, then. they also shall go out by this door. I have a charm,whereby I can make them thin or fat." So the vizier's son fetched thehorses without any person knowing it, and repeating the charm, he madethem pass through the narrow doorway like pieces of cloth, and whenthey were all outside restored them to their former condition. He atonce mounted his horse and laid hold of the halter of one of the otherhorses, and then beckoning to the prince to do likewise, he rode off.The prince saw his opportunity, and in a moment was riding after him,having the woman behind him.Now the robbers heard the galloping of the horses, and ran out andshot their arrows at the prince and his companions. And one of thearrows killed the woman, so they had to leave her behind.On, on they rode, until they reached a village where they stayed thenight. The following morning they were off again, and asked for IvoryCity from every passer by. At length they came to this famous city,and put up at a little hut that belonged to an old woman, from whomthey feared no harm, and with whom, therefore, they could abide inpeace and comfort. At first the old woman did not like the idea ofthese travellers staying in her house, but the sight of a muhr, whichthe prince dropped in the bottom of a cup in which she had given himwater, and a present of another muhr from the vizier's son, quicklymade her change her mind. She agreed to let them stay there for a fewdays.As soon as her work was over the old woman came and sat down with herlodgers. The vizier's son pretended to be utterly ignorant of theplace and people. "Has this city a name?" he asked the old woman."Of course it has, you stupid. Every little village, much more a city,and such a city as this, has a name.""What is the name of this city?""Ivory City. Don't you know that? I thought the name was known allover the world."On the mention of the name Ivory City the prince gave a deep sigh. Thevizier's son looked as much as to say, "Keep quiet, or you'll discoverthe secret.""Is there a king of this country?" continued the vizier's son."Of course there is, and a queen, and a princess.""What are their names?""The name of the princess is Gulizar, and the name of the queen  "The vizier's son interrupted the old woman by turning to look at theprince, who was staring like a madman. "Yes," he said to himafterwards, "we are in the right country. We shall see the beautifulprincess."One morning the two travellers noticed the old woman's most carefultoilette: how careful she was in the arrangement of her hair and theset of her kasabah and puts."Who is coming?" said the vizier's son."Nobody," the old woman replied."Then where are you going?""I am going to see my daughter, who is a servant of the PrincessGulizar. I see her and the princess every day. I should have goneyesterday, if you had not been here and taken up all my time.""Ah h h! Be careful not to say anything about us in the hearing of theprincess." The vizier's son asked her not to speak about them at thepalace, hoping that, because she had been told not to do so, she wouldmention their arrival, and thus the princess would be informed oftheir coming.On seeing her mother the girl pretended to be very angry. "Why haveyou not been for two days?" she asked."Because, my dear," the old woman answered, "two young travellers, aprince and the son of some great vizier, have taken up their abode inmy hut, and demand so much of my attention. It is nothing but cookingand cleaning, and cleaning and cooking, all day long. I can'tunderstand the men," she added. "one of them especially appears verystupid. He asked me the name of this country and the name of theking. Now where can these men have come from, that they do not knowthese things? However, they are very great and very rich. They eachgive me a muhr every morning and every evening."After this the old woman went and repeated almost the same words tothe princess, on the hearing of which the princess beat her severely.and threatened her with a severer punishment if she ever again spokeof the strangers before her.In the evening, when the old woman had returned to her hut, she toldthe vizier's son how sorry she was that she could not help breakingher promise, and how the princess had struck her because she mentionedtheir coming and all about them."Alas! alas!" said the prince, who had eagerly listened to every word."What, then, will be her anger at the sight of a man?""Anger?" said the vizier's son, with an astonished air. "She would beexceedingly glad to see one man. I know this. In this treatment of theold woman I see her request that you will go and see her during thecoming dark fortnight.""Heaven be praised!" the prince exclaimed.The next time the old woman went to the palace Gulizar called one ofher servants and ordered her to rush into the room while she wasconversing with the old woman. and if the old woman asked what was thematter, she was to say that the king's elephants had gone mad, andwere rushing about the city and bazaar in every direction, anddestroying everything in their way.The servant obeyed, and the old woman, fearing lest the elephantsshould go and push down her hut and kill the prince and his friend,begged the princess to let her depart. Now Gulizar had obtained acharmed swing, that landed whoever sat on it at the place whereverthey wished to be. "Get the swing," she said to one of the servantsstanding by. When it was brought she bade the old woman step into itand desire to be at home.The old woman did so, and was at once carried through the air quicklyand safely to her hut, where she found her two lodgers safe and sound."Oh!" she cried, "I thought that both of you would be killed by thistime. The royal elephants have got loose and are running about wildly.When I heard this I was anxious about you. So the princess gave methis charmed swing to return in. But come, let us get outside beforethe elephants arrive and batter down the place.""Don't believe this," said the vizier's son. "It is a mere hoax. Theyhave been playing tricks with you.""You will soon have your heart's desire," he whispered aside to theprince. "These things are signs."Two days of the dark fortnight had elapsed, when the prince and thevizier's son seated themselves in the swing, and wished themselveswithin the grounds of the palace. In a moment they were there, andthere too was the object of their search standing by one of the palacegates, and longing to see the prince quite as much as he was longingto see her.Oh, what a happy meeting it was!"At last," said Gulizar, "I have seen my beloved, my husband.""A thousand thanks to Heaven for bringing me to you," said the prince.Then the prince and Gulizar betrothed themselves to one another andparted, the one for the hut and the other for the palace, both of themfeeling happier than they had ever been before.Henceforth the prince visited Gulizar every day and returned to thehut every night. One morning Gulizar begged him to stay with heralways. She was constantly afraid of some evil happening tohim perhaps robbers would slay him, or sickness attack him, and thenshe would be deprived of him. She could not live without seeing him.The prince showed her that there was no real cause for fear, and saidthat he felt he ought to return to his friend at night, because he hadleft his home and country and risked his life for him. and, moreover,if it had not been for his friend's help he would never have met withher.Gulizar for the time assented, but she determined in her heart to getrid of the vizier's son as soon as possible. A few days after thisconversation she ordered one of her maids to make a pilaw. She gavespecial directions that a certain poison was to be mixed into it whilecooking, and as soon as it was ready the cover was to be placed on thesaucepan, so that the poisonous steam might not escape. When the pilawwas ready she sent it at once by the hand of a servant to the vizier'sson with this message: "Gulizar, the princess, sends you an offeringin the name of her dead uncle."On receiving the present the vizier's son thought that the prince hadspoken gratefully of him to the princess, and therefore she had thusremembered him. Accordingly he sent back his salam and expressions ofthankfulness.When it was dinner time he took the saucepan of pilaw and went out toeat it by the stream. Taking off the lid, he threw it aside on thegrass and then washed his hands. During the minute or so that he wasperforming these ablutions, the green grass under the cover of thesaucepan turned quite yellow. He was astonished, and suspecting thatthere was poison in the pilaw, he took a little and threw it to somecrows that were hopping about. The moment the crows ate what wasthrown to them they fell down dead."Heaven be praised," exclaimed the vizier's son, "who has preserved mefrom death at this time!"On the return of the prince that evening the vizier's son was veryreticent and depressed. The prince noticed this change in him, andasked what was the reason. "Is it because I am away so much at thepalace?" The vizier's son saw that the prince had nothing to do withthe sending of the pilaw, and therefore told him everything."Look here," he said, "in this handkerchief is some pilaw that theprincess sent me this morning in the name of her deceased uncle. It issaturated with poison. Thank Heaven, I discovered it in time!""Oh, brother! who could have done this thing? Who is there thatentertains enmity against you?""The Princess Gulizar. Listen. The next time you go to see her, Ientreat you to take some snow with you. and just before seeing theprincess put a little of it into both your eyes. It will provoketears, and Gulizar will ask you why you are crying. Tell her that youweep for the loss of your friend, who died suddenly this morning.Look! take, too, this wine and this shovel, and when you have feignedintense grief at the death of your friend, bid the princess to drink alittle of the wine. It is strong, and will immediately send her into adeep sleep. Then, while she is asleep, heat the shovel and mark herback with it. Remember to bring back the shovel again, and also totake her pearl necklace. This done, return. Now fear not to executethese instructions, because on the fulfilment of them depends yourfortune and happiness. I will arrange that your marriage with theprincess shall be accepted by the king, her father, and all thecourt."The prince promised that he would do everything as the vizier's sonhad advised him. and he kept his promise.The following night, on the return of the prince from his visit toGulizar, he and the vizier's son, taking the horses and bags of muhrs,went to a graveyard about a mile or so distant. It was arranged thatthe vizier's son should act the part of a fakir and the prince thepart of the fakir's disciple and servant.In the morning, when Gulizar had returned to her senses, she felt asmarting pain in her back, and noticed that her pearl necklace wasgone. She went at once and informed the king of the loss of hernecklace, but said nothing to him about the pain in her back.The king was very angry when he heard of the theft, and causedproclamation concerning it to be made throughout all the city andsurrounding country."It is well," said the vizier's son, when he heard of thisproclamation. "Fear not, my brother, but go and take this necklace,and try to sell it in the bazaar."The prince took it to a goldsmith and asked him to buy it."How much do you want for it?" asked the man."Fifty thousand rupees," the prince replied."All right," said the man. "wait here while I go and fetch the money."The prince waited and waited, till at last the goldsmith returned,and with him the kotwal, who at once took the prince into custody onthe charge of stealing the princess's necklace."How did you get the necklace?" the kotwal asked."A fakir, whose servant I am, gave it to me to sell in the bazaar,"the prince replied. "Permit me, and I will show you where he is."The prince directed the kotwal and the policeman to the place where hehad left the vizier's son, and there they found the fakir with hiseyes shut and engaged in prayer. Presently, when he had finished hisdevotions, the kotwal asked him to explain how he had obtainedpossession of the princess's necklace."Call the king hither," he replied, "and then I will tell his Majestyface to face."On this some men went to the king and told him what the fakir hadsaid. His Majesty came, and seeing the fakir so solemn and earnest inhis devotions, he was afraid to rouse his anger, lest peradventure thedispleasure of Heaven should descend on him, and so he placed hishands together in the attitude of a supplicant, and asked, "How didyou get my daughter's necklace?""Last night," replied the fakir, "we were sitting here by this tombworshipping Khuda, when a ghoul, dressed as a princess, came andexhumed a body that had been buried a few days ago, and began to eatit. On seeing this I was filled with anger, and beat her back with ashovel, which lay on the fire at the time. While running away from meher necklace got loose and dropped. You wonder at these words, butthey are not difficult to prove. Examine your daughter, and you willfind the marks of the burn on her back. Go, and if it is as I say,send the princess to me, and I will punish her."The king went back to the palace, and at once ordered the princess'sback to be examined."It is so," said the maid servant. "the burn is there.""Then let the girl be slain immediately," the king shouted."No, no, your Majesty," they replied. "Let us send her to the fakirwho discovered this thing, that he may do whatever he wishes withher."The king agreed, and so the princess was taken to the graveyard."Let her be shut up in a cage, and be kept near the grave whence shetook out the corpse," said the fakir.This was done, and in a little while the fakir and his disciple andthe princess were left alone in the graveyard. Night had not long castits dark mantle over the scene when the fakir and his disciple threwoff their disguise, and taking their horses and luggage, appearedbefore the cage. They released the princess, rubbed some ointment overthe scars on her back, and then sat her upon one of their horsesbehind the prince. Away they rode fast and far, and by the morningwere able to rest and talk over their plans in safety. The vizier'sson showed the princess some of the poisoned pilaw that she had senthim, and asked whether she had repented of her ingratitude. Theprincess wept, and acknowledged that he was her greatest helper andfriend.A letter was sent to the chief vizier telling him of all that hadhappened to the prince and the vizier's son since they had left theircountry. When the vizier read the letter he went and informed theking. The king caused a reply to be sent to the two exiles, in whichhe ordered them not to return, but to send a letter to Gulizar'sfather, and inform him of everything. Accordingly they did this. theprince wrote the letter at the vizier's son's dictation.On reading the letter Gulizar's father was much enraged with hisviziers and other officials for not discovering the presence in hiscountry of these illustrious visitors, as he was especially anxious toingratiate himself in the favour of the prince and the vizier's son.He ordered the execution of some of the viziers on a certain date."Come," he wrote back to the vizier's son, "and stay at the palace.And if the prince desires it, I will arrange for his marriage withGulizar as soon as possible."The prince and the vizier's son most gladly accepted the invitation,and received a right noble welcome from the king. The marriage soontook place, and then after a few weeks the king gave them presents ofhorses and elephants, and jewels and rich cloths, and bade them startfor their own land. for he was sure that the king would now receivethem. The night before they left the viziers and others, whom the kingintended to have executed as soon as his visitors had left, came andbesought the vizier's son to plead for them, and promised that theyeach would give him a daughter in marriage. He agreed to do so, andsucceeded in obtaining their pardon.Then the prince, with his beautiful bride Gulizar, and the vizier'sson, attended by a troop of soldiers, and a large number of camels andhorses bearing very much treasure, left for their own land. In themidst of the way they passed the tower of the robbers, and with thehelp of the soldiers they razed it to the ground, slew all itsinmates, and seized the treasure which they had been amassing therefor several years.At length they reached their own country, and when the king saw hisson's beautiful wife and his magnificent retinue he was at oncereconciled, and ordered him to enter the city and take up his abodethere.Henceforth all was sunshine on the path of the prince. He became agreat favourite, and in due time succeeded to the throne, and ruledthe country for many, many years in peace and happiness.