aunts Thunder and Lightning. Their mother (one of the most distantStars you see far up in the sky) waited alone for her children'sreturn.Now both Sun and Wind were greedy and selfish. They enjoyed the greatfeast that had been prepared for them, without a thought of saving anyof it to take home to their mother but the gentle Moon did notforget her. Of every dainty dish that was brought round, she placed asmall portion under one of her beautiful long finger nails, that Starmight also have a share in the treat.On their return, their mother, who had kept watch for them all nightlong with her little bright eye, said, "Well, children, what have youbrought home for me?" Then Sun (who was eldest) said, "I have broughtnothing home for you. I went out to enjoy myself with my friends notto fetch a dinner for my mother!" And Wind said, "Neither have Ibrought anything home for you, mother. You could hardly expect me tobring a collection of good things for you, when I merely went out formy own pleasure." But Moon said, "Mother, fetch a plate, see what Ihave brought you." And shaking her hands she showered down such achoice dinner as never was seen before.Then Star turned to Sun and spoke thus, "Because you went out to amuseyourself with your friends, and feasted and enjoyed yourself, withoutany thought of your mother at home you shall be cursed. Henceforth,your rays shall ever be hot and scorching, and shall burn all thatthey touch. And men shall hate you, and cover their heads when youappear."(And that is why the Sun is so hot to this day.)Then she turned to Wind and said, "You also who forgot your mother inthe midst of your selfish pleasures hear your doom. You shall alwaysblow in the hot dry weather, and shall parch and shrivel all livingthings. And men shall detest and avoid you from this very time."(And that is why the Wind in the hot weather is still sodisagreeable.)But to Moon she said, "Daughter, because you remembered your mother,and kept for her a share in your own enjoyment, from henceforth youshall be ever cool, and calm, and bright. No noxious glare shallaccompany your pure rays, and men shall always call you 'blessed.'"(And that is why the moon's light is so soft, and cool, and beautifuleven to this day.)