You ought to have known our aunt. she was charming! That is tosay, she was not charming at all as the word is usually understood.but she was good and kind, amusing in her way, and was just as any oneought to be whom people are to talk about and to laugh at. She mighthave been put into a play, and wholly and solely on account of thefact that she only lived for the theatre and for what was donethere. She was an honorable matron. but Agent Fabs, whom she used tocall "Flabs," declared that our aunt was stage struck."The theatre is my school," said she, "the source of my knowledge.From thence I have resuscitated Biblical history. Now, 'Moses' and'Joseph in Egypt' there are operas for you! I get my universalhistory from the theatre, my geography, and my knowledge of men. Outof the French pieces I get to know life in Paris slippery, butexceedingly interesting. How I have cried over 'La FamilleRoquebourg' that the man must drink himself to death, so that she maymarry the young fellow! Yes, how many tears I have wept in the fiftyyears I have subscribed to the theatre!"Our aunt knew every acting play, every bit of scenery, everycharacter, every one who appeared or had appeared. She seemed reallyonly to live during the nine months the theatre was open. Summertimewithout a summer theatre seemed to be only a time that made her old.while, on the other hand, a theatrical evening that lasted tillmidnight was a lengthening of her life. She did not say, as otherpeople do, "Now we shall have spring, the stork is here," or, "They'veadvertised the first strawberries in the papers." She, on thecontrary, used to announce the coming of autumn, with "Have youheard they're selling boxes for the theatre? now the performances willbegin."She used to value a lodging entirely according to its proximity tothe theatre. It was a real sorrow to her when she had to leave thelittle lane behind the playhouse, and move into the great streetthat lay a little farther off, and live there in a house where she hadno opposite neighbors."At home," said she, "my windows must be my opera box. Onecannot sit and look into one's self till one's tired. one must seepeople. But now I live just as if I'd go into the country. If I wantto see human beings, I must go into my kitchen, and sit down on thesink, for there only I have opposite neighbors. No. when I lived in mydear little lane, I could look straight down into the ironmonger'sshop, and had only three hundred paces to the theatre. and now I'vethree thousand paces to go, military measurement."Our aunt was sometimes ill, but however unwell she might feel, shenever missed the play. The doctor prescribed one day that she shouldput her feet in a bran bath, and she followed his advice. but shedrove to the theatre all the same, and sat with her feet in branthere. If she had died there, she would have been very glad.Thorwaldsen died in the theatre, and she called that a happy death.She could not imagine but that in heaven there must be a theatretoo. It had not, indeed, been promised us, but we might very wellimagine it. The many distinguished actors and actresses who had passedaway must surely have a field for their talent.Our aunt had an electric wire from the theatre to her room. Atelegram used to be dispatched to her at coffee time, and it used toconsist of the words, "Herr Sivertsen is at the machinery." for it washe who gave the signal for drawing the curtain up and down and forchanging the scenes.From him she used to receive a short and concise description ofevery piece. His opinion of Shakspeare's "Tempest," was, "Madnonsense! There's so much to put up, and the first scene begins with'Water to the front of the wings.'" That is to say, the water had tocome forward so far. But when, on the other hand, the same interiorscene remained through five acts, he used to pronounce it asensible, well written play, a resting play, which performed itself,without putting up scenes.In earlier times, by which name our aunt used to designatethirty years ago, she and the before mentioned Herr Sivertsen had beenyounger. At that time he had already been connected with themachinery, and was, as she said, her benefactor. It used to be thecustom in those days that in the evening performances in the onlytheatre the town possessed, spectators were admitted to the partcalled the "flies," over the stage, and every machinist had one or twoplaces to give away. Often the flies were quite full of goodcompany. it was said that generals' wives and privy councillors' wiveshad been up there. It was quite interesting to look down behind thescenes, and to see how the people walked to and fro on the stagewhen the curtain was down.Our aunt had been there several times, as well when there was atragedy as when there was a ballet. for the pieces in which there werethe greatest number of characters on the stage were the mostinteresting to see from the flies. One sat pretty much in the darkup there, and most people took their supper up with them. Once threeapples and a great piece of bread and butter and sausage fell downright into the dungeon of Ugolino, where that unhappy man was to bestarved to death. and there was great laughter among the audience. Thesausage was one of the weightiest reasons why the worthy managementrefused in future to have any spectators up in the flies."But I was there seven and thirty times," said our aunt, "and Ishall always remember Mr. Sivertsen for that."On the very last evening when the flies were still open to thepublic, the "Judgment of Solomon" was performed, as our auntremembered very well. She had, through the influence of herbenefactor, Herr Sivertsen, procured a free admission for the AgentFabs, although he did not deserve it in the least, for he was alwayscutting his jokes about the theatre and teasing our aunt. but shehad procured him a free admission to the flies, for all that. Hewanted to look at this player stuff from the other side."Those were his own words, and they were just like him," saidour aunt.He looked down from above on the 'Judgment of Solomon,' and fellasleep over it. One would have thought that he had come from adinner where many toasts had been given. He went to sleep, and waslocked in. And there he sat through the dark night in the flies, andwhen he woke, he told a story, but our aunt would not believe it."The 'Judgment of Solomon' was over," he said, "and all the peoplehad gone away, up stairs and down stairs. but now the real play began,the after piece, which was the best of all," said the agent. "Thenlife came into the affair. It was not the 'Judgment of Solomon' thatwas performed. no, a real court of judgment was held upon thestage." And Agent Fabs had the impudence to try and make our auntbelieve all this. That was the thanks she got for having got him aplace in the flies.What did the agent say? Why, it was curious enough to hear, butthere was malice and satire in it."It looked dark enough up there," said the agent. "but then themagic business began a great performance, 'The Judgment in theTheatre.' The box keepers were at their posts, and every spectator hadto show his ghostly pass book, that it might be decided if he was tobe admitted with hands loose or bound, and with or without a muzzle.Grand people who came too late, when the performance had begun, andyoung people, who could not always watch the time, were tied upoutside, and had list slippers put on their feet, with which they wereallowed to go in before the beginning of the next act, and they hadmuzzles too. And then the 'Judgment on the Stage' began.""All malice, and not a bit of truth in it," said our aunt.The painter, who wanted to get to Paradise, had to go up astaircase which he had himself painted, but which no man couldmount. That was to expiate his sins against perspective. All theplants and buildings, which the property man had placed, with infinitepains, in countries to which they did not belong, the poor fellowwas obliged to put in their right places before cockcrow, if he wantedto get into Paradise. Let Herr Fabs see how he would get in himself.but what he said of the performers, tragedians and comedians,singers and dancers, that was the most rascally of all. Mr. Fabs,indeed! Flabs! He did not deserve to be admitted at all, and our auntwould not soil her lips with what he said. And he said, did Flabs,that the whole was written down, and it should be printed when hewas dead and buried, but not before, for he would not risk havinghis arms and legs broken.Once our aunt had been in fear and trembling in her temple ofhappiness, the theatre. It was on a winter day, one of those days inwhich one has a couple of hours of daylight, with a gray sky. It wasterribly cold and snowy, but aunt must go to the theatre. A littleopera and a great ballet were performed, and a prologue and anepilogue into the bargain. and that would last till late at night. Ouraunt must needs go. so she borrowed a pair of fur boots of herlodger boots with fur inside and out, and which reached far upher legs.She got to the theatre, and to her box. the boots were warm, andshe kept them on. Suddenly there was a cry of "Fire!" Smoke was comingfrom one of the side scenes, and streamed down from the flies, andthere was a terrible panic. The people came rushing out, and ouraunt was the last in the box, "on the second tier, left hand side, forfrom there the scenery looks best," she used to say. "The scenes arealways arranged that they look best from the King's side." Aunt wantedto come out, but the people before her, in their fright andheedlessness, slammed the door of the box. and there sat our aunt, andcouldn't get out, and couldn't get in. that is to say, she couldn'tget into the next box, for the partition was too high for her. Shecalled out, and no one heard her. she looked down into the tier ofboxes below her, and it was empty, and low, and looked quite near, andaunt in her terror felt quite young and light. She thought ofjumping down, and had got one leg over the partition, the otherresting on the bench. There she sat astride, as if on horseback,well wrapped up in her flowered cloak with one leg hanging out aleg in a tremendous fur boot. That was a sight to behold. and whenit was beheld, our aunt was heard too, and was saved from burning, forthe theatre was not burned down.That was the most memorable evening of her life, and she wasglad that she could not see herself, for she would have died withconfusion.Her benefactor in the machinery department, Herr Sivertsen,visited her every Sunday, but it was a long time from Sunday toSunday. In the latter time, therefore, she used to have in a littlechild "for the scraps." that is to say, to eat up the remains of thedinner. It was a child employed in the ballet, one that certainlywanted feeding. The little one used to appear, sometimes as an elf,sometimes as a page. the most difficult part she had to play was thelion's hind leg in the "Magic Flute." but as she grew larger she couldrepresent the fore feet of the lion. She certainly only got half aguilder for that, whereas the hind legs were paid for with a wholeguilder. but then she had to walk bent, and to do without fresh air."That was all very interesting to hear," said our aunt.She deserved to live as long as the theatre stood, but she couldnot last so long. and she did not die in the theatre, butrespectably in her bed. Her last words were, moreover, not withoutmeaning. She asked,"What will the play be to morrow?"At her death she left about five hundred dollars. We presumethis from the interest, which came to twenty dollars. This our aunthad destined as a legacy for a worthy old spinster who had no friends.it was to be devoted to a yearly subscription for a place in thesecond tier, on the left side, for the Saturday evening, "for onthat evening two pieces were always given," it said in the will. andthe only condition laid upon the person who enjoyed the legacy was,that she should think, every Saturday evening, of our aunt, who waslying in her grave.This was our aunt's religion.