Once upon a time there lived a king and a queen who had one son. Theking loved the boy very much, but the queen, who was a wicked woman,hated the sight of him. and this was the more unlucky for, when he wastwelve years old, his father died, and he was left alone in the world.Now the queen was very angry because the people, who knew how bad shewas, seated her son on the throne instead of herself, and shenever rested till she had formed a plan to get him out of the way.Fortunately, however, the young king was wise and prudent, and knew hertoo well to trust her.One day, when his mourning was over, he gave orders that everythingshould be made ready for a grand hunt. The queen pretended to be greatlydelighted that he was going to amuse himself once more, and declaredthat she would accompany him. 'No, mother, I cannot let you come,' heanswered. 'the ground is rough, and you are not strong.' But he might aswell have spoken to the winds: when the horn was sounded at daybreak thequeen was there with the rest.All that day they rode, for game was plentiful, but towards evening themother and son found themselves alone in a part of the country that wasstrange to them. They wandered on for some time, without knowing wherethey were going, till they met with a man whom they begged to give themshelter. 'Come with me,' said the man gladly, for he was an ogre, andfed on human flesh. and the king and his mother went with him, and heled them to his house. When they got there they found to what a dreadfulplace they had come, and, falling on their knees, they offered him greatsums of money, if he would only spare their lives. The ogre's heart wasmoved at the sight of the queen's beauty, and he promised that he woulddo her no harm. but he stabbed the boy at once, and binding his body ona horse, turned him loose in the forest.The ogre had happened to choose a horse which he had bought only the daybefore, and he did not know it was a magician, or he would not have beenso foolish as to fix upon it on this occasion. The horse no sooner hadbeen driven off with the prince's body on its back than it gallopedstraight to the home of the fairies, and knocked at the door with itshoof. The fairies heard the knock, but were afraid to open till theyhad peeped from an upper window to see that it was no giant or ogre whocould do them harm. 'Oh, look, sister!' cried the first to reach thewindow, 'it is a horse that has knocked, and on its back there is bounda dead boy, the most beautiful boy in all the world!' Then the fairiesran to open the door, and let in the horse and unbound the ropes whichfastened the young king on its back. And they gathered round to admirehis beauty, and whispered one to the other: 'We will make him aliveagain, and will keep him for our brother.' And so they did, and for manyyears they all lived together as brothers and sisters.By and by the boy grew into a man, as boys will, and then the oldest ofthe fairies said to her sisters: 'Now I will marry him, and he shallbe really your brother.' So the young king married the fairy, and theylived happily together in the castle. but though he loved his wife hestill longed to see the world.At length this longing grew so strong on him that he could bear it nomore. and, calling the fairies together, he said to them: 'Dear wife andsisters, I must leave you for a time, and go out and see the world. ButI shall think of you often, and one day I shall come back to you.'The fairies wept and begged him to stay, but he would not listen, andat last the eldest, who was his wife, said to him: 'If you really willabandon us, take this lock of my hair with you. you will find it usefulin time of need.' So she cut off a long curl, and handed it to him.The prince mounted his horse, and rode on all day without stopping once.Towards evening he found himself in a desert, and, look where he would,there was no such thing as a house or a man to be seen. 'What am I to donow?' he thought. 'If I go to sleep here wild beasts will come and eatme! Yet both I and my horse are worn out, and can go no further.' Thensuddenly he remembered the fairy's gift, and taking out the curl he saidto it: 'I want a castle here, and servants, and dinner, and everythingto make me comfortable tonight. and besides that, I must have a stableand fodder for my horse.' And in a moment the castle was before him justas he had wished.In this way he travelled through many countries, till at last he cameto a land that was ruled over by a great king. Leaving his horse outsidethe walls, he clad himself in the dress of a poor man, and went upto the palace. The queen, who was looking out of the window, saw himapproaching, and filled with pity sent a servant to ask who he was andwhat he wanted. 'I am a stranger here,' answered the young king, 'andvery poor. I have come to beg for some work.' 'We have everybody wewant,' said the queen, when the servant told her the young man's reply.'We have a gate keeper, and a hall porter, and servants of all sortsin the palace. the only person we have not got is a goose boy. Tell himthat he can be our goose boy if he likes.' The youth answered that hewas quite content to be goose boy. and that was how he got his nicknameof Paperarello. And in order that no one should guess that he was anybetter than a goose boy should be, he rubbed his face and his rags overwith mud, and made himself altogether such a disgusting object thatevery one crossed over to the other side of the road when he was seencoming.'Do go and wash yourself, Paperarello!' said the queen sometimes, for hedid his work so well that she took an interest in him. 'Oh, I should notfeel comfortable if I was clean, your Majesty,' answered he, and wentwhistling after his geese.It happened one day that, owing to some accident to the great flourmills which supplied the city, there was no bread to be had, and theking's army had to do without. When the king heard of it, he sent forthe cook, and told him that by the next morning he must have all thebread that the oven, heated seven times over, could bake. 'But, yourMajesty, it is not possible,' cried the poor man in despair. 'The millshave only just begun working, and the flour will not be ground tillevening, and how can I heat the oven seven times in one night?' 'Thatis your affair,' answered the King, who, when he took anything into hishead, would listen to nothing. 'If you succeed in baking the bread youshall have my daughter to wife, but if you fail your head will pay forit.'Now Paperarello, who was passing through the hall where the king wasgiving his orders, heard these words, and said: 'Your Majesty, have nofears. I will bake your bread.' 'Very well,' answered the king. 'butif you fail, you will pay for it with your head!' and signed that bothshould leave his presence.The cook was still trembling with the thought of what he had escaped,but to his surprise Paperarello did not seem disturbed at all, and whennight came he went to sleep as usual. 'Paperarello,' cried the otherservants, when they saw him quietly taking off his clothes, 'you cannotgo to bed. you will need every moment of the night for your work.Remember, the king is not to be played with!''I really must have some sleep first,' replied Paperarello, stretchinghimself and yawning. and he flung himself on his bed, and was fastasleep in a moment. In an hour's time, the servants came and shook himby the shoulder. 'Paperarello, are you mad?' said they. 'Get up, or youwill lose your head.' 'Oh, do let me sleep a little more, answered he.And this was all he would say, though the servants returned to wake himmany times in the night.At last the dawn broke, and the servants rushed to his room, crying:'Paperarello! Paperarello! get up, the king is coming. You have baked nobread, and of a surety he will have your head.''Oh, don't scream so,' replied Paperarello, jumping out of bed ashe spoke. and taking the lock of hair in his hand, he went into thekitchen. And, behold! there stood the bread piled high four, five, sixovens full, and the seventh still waiting to be taken out of the oven.The servants stood and stared in surprise, and the king said: 'Welldone, Paperarello, you have won my daughter.' And he thought to himself:'This fellow must really be a magician.'But when the princess heard what was in store for her she wept bitterly,and declared that never, never would she marry that dirty Paperarello!However, the king paid no heed to her tears and prayers, and before manydays were over the wedding was celebrated with great splendour, thoughthe bridegroom had not taken the trouble to wash himself, and was asdirty as before.When night came he went as usual to sleep among his geese, and theprincess went to the king and said: 'Father, I entreat you to have thathorrible Paperarello put to death.' 'No, no!' replied her father, 'he isa great magician, and before I put him to death, I must first find outthe secret of his power, and then we shall see.'Soon after this a war broke out, and everybody about the palace was verybusy polishing up armour and sharpening swords, for the king and hissons were to ride at the head of the army. Then Paperarello left hisgeese, and came and told the king that he wished to go to fight also.The king gave him leave, and told him that he might go to the stable andtake any horse he liked from the stables. So Paperarello examinedthe horses carefully, but instead of picking out one of the splendidwell groomed creatures, whose skin shone like satin, he chose a poorlame thing, put a saddle on it, and rode after the other men at arms whowere attending the king. In a short time he stopped, and said to them:'My horse can go no further. you must go on to the war without me, andI will stay here, and make some little clay soldiers, and will play at abattle.' The men laughed at him for being so childish, and rode on aftertheir master.Scarcely were they out of sight than Paperarello took out his curl, andwished himself the best armour, the sharpest sword, and the swiftesthorse in the world, and the next minute was riding as fast as he couldto the field of battle. The fight had already begun, and the enemy wasgetting the best of it, when Paperarello rode up, and in a moment thefortunes of the day had changed. Right and left this strange knightlaid about him, and his sword pierced the stoutest breast plate, and thestrongest shield. He was indeed 'a host in himself,' and his foes fledbefore him thinking he was only the first of a troop of such warriors,whom no one could withstand. When the battle was over, the king sent forhim to thank him for his timely help, and to ask what reward he shouldgive him. 'Nothing but your little finger, your Majesty,' washis answer. and the king cut off his little finger and gave it toPaperarello, who bowed and hid it in his surcoat. Then he left thefield, and when the soldiers rode back they found him still sitting inthe road making whole rows of little clay dolls.The next day the king went out to fight another battle, and againPaperarello appeared, mounted on his lame horse. As on the day before,he halted on the road, and sat down to make his clay soldiers. then asecond time he wished himself armour, sword, and a horse, all sharperand better than those he had previously had, and galloped after therest. He was only just in time: the enemy had almost beaten the king'sarmy back, and men whispered to each other that if the strange knightdid not soon come to their aid, they would be all dead men. Suddenlysomeone cried: 'Hold on a little longer, I see him in the distance. andhis armour shines brighter, and his horse runs swifter, than yesterday.'Then they took fresh heart and fought desperately on till the knightcame up, and threw himself into the thick of the battle. As before, theenemy gave way before him, and in a few minutes the victory remainedwith the king.The first thing that the victor did was to send for the knight to thankhim for his timely help, and to ask what gift he could bestow on him intoken of gratitude. 'Your Majesty's ear,' answered the knight. and asthe king could not go back from his word, he cut it off and gave it tohim. Paperarello bowed, fastened the ear inside his surcoat and rodeaway. In the evening, when they all returned from the battle, there hewas, sitting in the road, making clay dolls.On the third day the same thing happened, and this time he asked for theking's nose as the reward of his aid. Now, to lose one's nose, is worseeven than losing one's ear or one's finger, and the king hesitated as towhether he should comply. However, he had always prided himself on beingan honourable man, so he cut off his nose, and handed it to Paperarello.Paperarello bowed, put the nose in his surcoat, and rode away. In theevening, when the king returned from the battle, he found Paperarellositting in the road making clay dolls. And Paperarello got up and saidto him: 'Do you know who I am? I am your dirty goose boy, yet you havegiven me your finger, and your ear, and your nose.'That night, when the king sat at dinner, Paperarello came in, and layingdown the ear, and the nose, and the finger on the table, turned andsaid to the nobles and courtiers who were waiting on the king: 'I am theinvincible knight, who rode three times to your help, and I also am aking's son, and no goose boy as you all think.' And he went away andwashed himself, and dressed himself in fine clothes and entered the hallagain, looking so handsome that the proud princess fell in love withhim on the spot. But Paperarello took no notice of her, and said to theking: 'It was kind of you to offer me your daughter in marriage, and forthat I thank you. but I have a wife at home whom I love better, and itis to her that I am going. But as a token of farewell, I wish that yourear, and nose, and finger may be restored to their proper places.' Sosaying, he bade them all goodbye, and went back to his home and hisfairy bride, with whom he lived happily till the end of his life.