There was a gentleman and a lady. They had been married a long time, but had no children, which saddened them greatly.Then they were told to make a pilgrimage to achieve their wish. They went on this pilgrimage, travelling a long way from home. By the time they returned homeward the woman had become pregnant. On their way they saw a beautiful garden, and in this garden there were magnificent fruits.The wife said to her husband, "Oh, I would like to eat some of this fruit. I'll pick it myself."The husband said to her, "What if someone sees us!"But she said to him, "It doesn't matter. I'll go and get some."She went to the garden and ate some fruit, then returned to their cart. As she was about to leave, a little woman appeared and asked her why she had taken the fruit. So she told the little woman about her desire for the fruit.Then the woman said to her, "I will say nothing about your having stolen my fruit, but I want to be the godmother of your child. You will have a girl."The wife climbed back onto her wagon and said to her husband, "I promised that woman that she could be godmother, but it won't happen."Finally the day arrived when she delivered the child. She had a daughter, just as the woman had said. They had the child baptized, but did not invite the woman.The woman summoned her sisters. she had two sisters, and they were fairies.She said to them, "You know, the woman who stole my fruit gave birth to a child, but did not ask me to be godmother. She must be punished. We must take away her child."She departed with a large dog. She arrived at the woman's door and rang. No one would open the door. She commanded the dog to open the door, and it opened the door. The dog opened all the doors. She came to where the child was.She said to the dog, "Bring the child to me!"Then she said to the mother, "And you, madam, another time you will keep your promises. You shall never again see your daughter."Then the woman returned to her own home with the child.Once all the fairies in the country came together, and she was godmother to the child. She named her Parsillette. She gave her the ability to sing such that she could be heard for seven leagues. The others gave her all sorts of gifts. the gift of beauty   in short, all kinds of gifts.Then she was given a nursemaid, and the best of everything was made ready for her.When she grew up, she was so beautiful that all the gentlemen who passed by stopped to look at her. She sang so well that everyone wanted to hear her sweet songs.The woman saw this and said to her sisters, "We must confine Parsillette in a tower. otherwise she will leave us."Then she took her to a tower three leagues distant from the house where she was. In this tower she had everything that she needed for her comfort and enjoyment, even a parrot to talk with her.Then the woman said to her, "Now when I come to bring you something I'll say to you, 'Parsillette, my goddaughter, let down your beautiful hair to me!' Then you are to open the door. That is the password."Now there was a prince in the vicinity, seven leagues away. He heard the singing from his home.He said, "Who is singing like that? I need to know."He asked about the place where the singing came from, and was told that a princess was there, locked in a tower.He said, "I have to go there and talk to her."Arriving at the tower, he heard someone say, "Parsillette, my goddaughter, let down your beautiful hair to me!"He wrote down the password, so that he too could say it. As soon as the woman left, he too said, "Parsillette, my goddaughter, let down your beautiful hair to me!"The girl, thinking it was her godmother, who had forgotten something, opened the door. Seeing the young man enter, she wanted to run away, but where to?And he, when he saw her, he fell so in love with her that he did not want to leave. He told her that if she would follow him, he would make her a queen.She was bored in this tower, always being alone with only her parrot for company. She promised him that she would go away with him. they would leave the next day.The woman approached, bringing food again. Seeing her godmother arrive, Parsillette hid the young man behind a curtain.Then the parrot said, "Godmother, a lover is hidden there!"Then the godmother said to her goddaughter, "What did your parrot say?'"Oh, godmother, he just said what I told him to."Then, suspecting nothing, the woman left.Then the woman began thinking about what the parrot had said. She said, "I think that the parrot told me the truth. I must be sure."She retraced her steps and arrived back at the tower. She called out, but no one responded. She climbed to the top of the tower. She saw Parsillette, who was clinging to the young man's arm. She struck out with her wand, and Parsillette became as ugly as she had been beautiful. All the gifts that had been given to her disappeared.The young man, seeing this change, did not know what to say. and Parsillette, seeing this, said to him, "I cannot go any further. Seeing how angry my godmother is, I must return to her and beg her pardon.The moment she said this, the young man was struck dead. She returned to her godmother and begged her pardon. Then all the gifts came back to her, and her godmother forgave her.She took Parsillette home with her, not back to the tower. Later Parsillette married a very wealthy prince, and she never knew her parents.