There was once upon a time a woman named Pascadozzia. As she was standingone day at a window, which looked into the garden of an ogress, she saw abeautiful bed of parsley, for which she took such a longing that she wason the point of fainting away. and being unable to resist her desire, shewatched until the ogress went out, and then plucked a handful of it.But when the ogress came home, and was going to cook her pottage, shefound that some one had been at the parsley, and said, "Ill luck to me butI'll catch this long fingered rogue, and make him repent it, and teach himto his cost that every one should eat off his own platter, and not meddlewith other folks' cups."The poor woman went again and again down into the garden, until onemorning the ogress met her, and in a furious rage exclaimed, "Have Icaught you at last, you thief, you rogue? Prithee do you pay the rent ofthe garden, that you come in this impudent way and steal my plants? By myfaith, but I'll make you do penance!"Poor Pascadozzia, in a terrible fright, began to make excuses, saying thatneither from gluttony nor the craving of hunger had she been tempted bythe devil to commit this fault, but fear she had lest the child should beborn with a crop of parsley on its face. and she added that the ogressought rather to thank her, for not having given her sore eyes."Words are but wind," answered the ogress. "I am not to be caught withsuch prattle. you have closed the balance sheet of life, unless youpromise to give me the child you bring forth, girl or boy, whichever itmay be."Poor Pascadozzia, in order to escape the peril in which she found herself,swore with one hand upon another to keep the promise. So the ogress lether go free. But when her time was come, Pascadozzia gave birth to alittle girl, so beautiful that she was a joy to look upon, who, fromhaving a fine sprig of parsley on her bosom, was named Parsley.And the little girl grew from day to day, until when she was seven yearsold her mother sent her to school. and every time she went along thestreet and met the ogress, the old woman said to her, "Tell your mother toremember her promise."And she went on repeating this message so often, that the poor mother,having no longer patience to listen to the same tale, said one day toParsley, "If you meet the old woman as usual, and she reminds you of thehateful promise, answer her, 'Take it!'"When Parsley, who dreamt of no ill, met the ogress again, and heard herrepeat the same words, she answered innocently as her mother had told her.whereupon the ogress, seizing her by her hair, carried her off to a wood,which the sun never entered. Then she put the poor girl into a tower,which she caused to arise by her art, and which had neither gate norladder, but only a little window, through which she ascended and descendedby means of Parsley's hair, which was very long, as the sailor is used torun up and down the mast of a ship.Now it happened one day, when the ogress had left the tower, that Parsleyput her head out of the little window, and let loose her tresses in thesun. and the son of a prince passing by saw these two golden banners,which invited all souls to enlist under the standard of love. andbeholding with amazement in the midst of those gleaming waves a siren'sface, that enchanted all hearts, he fell desperately in love with suchwonderful beauty. and sending her a memorial of sighs, she decreed toreceive him into favor.Matters went on so well with the prince, that there was soon a nodding ofheads and kissing of hands, thanks and offerings, hopes and promises, softwords and compliments. And when this had continued for several days,Parsley and the prince became so intimate that they made an appointment tomeet, and agreed that it should be at night, and that Parsley should givethe ogress some poppy juice, and draw up the prince with her tresses. Sowhen the appointed hour came, the prince went to the tower, where Parsley,letting fall her hair at a given signal, he seized it with both his hands,and cried, "Draw up!" And when he was drawn up, he crept through thelittle window into the chamber.The next morning early, the prince descended by the same golden ladder, togo his way home. And having repeated these visits many times, a gossip ofthe ogress, who was for ever prying into things that did not concern her,and poking her nose into every corner, got to find out the secret, andtold the ogress to be upon the lookout, for that Parsley was courted by ayouth.The ogress thanked the gossip for the information, and said she would takegood care to stop up the road. and as to Parsley, it was impossible forher to escape, as she had laid a spell upon her, so that, unless she hadin her hand the three gallnuts which were in a rafter in the kitchen, itwould be labor lost to attempt to get away.Whilst they were talking thus together, Parsley, who stood with her earswide open, and had some suspicion of the gossip, overheard all thatpassed. And when night had spread out her black garments, and the princehad come as usual, she made him climb onto the rafters and find thegallnuts, knowing well what effect they would have, as she had beenenchanted by the ogress. Then, having made a rope ladder, they bothdescended to the ground, took to their heels, and scampered off towardsthe city.But the gossip happening to see them come out, set up a loud halloo, andbegan to shout and make such a noise that the ogress awoke. and seeingthat Parsley had fled, she descended by the same ladder, which wasfastened to the window, and set off running after the lovers, who, whenthey saw her coming at their heels faster than a horse let loose, gavethemselves up for lost. But Parsley, recollecting the gallnuts, quicklythrew one on the ground, and lo! instantly a Corsican bulldog started up,  a terrible beast!   which with open jaws and barking loud flew at theogress as if to swallow her at a mouthful. But the old woman, who was morecunning and spiteful than the devil, put her hand into her pocket, andpulling out a piece of bread, gave it to the dog, which made him hang histail and allay his fury.Then she turned to run after the fugitives again. but Parsley, seeing herapproach, threw the second gallnut on the ground, and lo! a fierce lionarose, who, lashing the earth with his tail, and shaking his mane, andopening wide his jaws a yard apart, was just preparing to make a slaughterof the ogress. when, turning quickly back, she stripped the skin off anass that was grazing in the middle of a meadow, and ran at the lion, who,fancying it a real jackass, was so frightened that he bounded away as fastas he could.The ogress, having leaped over this second ditch, turned again to pursuethe poor lovers, who, hearing the clatter of her heels and seeing thecloud of dust that rose up to the sky, conjectured that she was comingagain. But the old woman, who was every moment in dread lest the lionshould pursue her, had not taken off the ass's skin. and when Parsley nowthrew down the third gallnut, there sprang up a wolf, who, without givingthe ogress time to play any new trick, gobbled her up just as she was, inthe shape of a jackass.So the lovers, being now freed from danger, went their way leisurely andquietly to the kingdom of the prince, where, with his father's freeconsent, he took Parsley to wife. and thus, after all these storms offate, they experienced the truth, thatOne hour in port, the sailor freed from fearsForgets the tempests of a hundred years.Zeza's story was listened to with such delight to the end, that, had iteven continued for an hour longer, the time would have appeared only amoment.