In the northwest corner of the parish of Beddgelert there is a placewhich used to be called by the old inhabitants the Land of theFairies , and it reaches from Cwm Hafod Ruffydd along the slope of themountain of Drws y Coed as far as Llyn y Dywarchen. The old people offormer times used to find much pleasure and amusement in this district inlistening every moonlight night to the charming music of the fair family,and in looking at their dancing and their mirthful sports.One on a time, a long while ago, there lived at upper Drws y Coed ayouth, who was joyous and active, brave and determined of heart. Thisyoung man amused himself every night by looking on and listening to them.One night they had come to a field near the house, near the shore of Llyny Dywarchen, to pass a merry night. He went, as usual, to look at them,when his glances at once fell on one of the ladies, who possessed suchbeauty as he had never seen in a human being. Her appearance was likethat of alabaster. her voice was as agreeable as the nightingale's, and asunruffled as the zephyr in a flower garden at the noon of a long summer'sday. and her gait was pretty and aristocratic. her feet moved in the danceas lightly on the grass as the rays of the sun had a few hours before onthe lake hard by.He fell in love with her over head and ears, and in the strength ofthat passion   for what is stronger than love!   he rushed, when thebustle was at its height, into the midst of the fair crowd, and snatchedthe graceful damsel in his arms, and ran instantly with her to thehouse.When the fair family saw the violence used by a mortal, they broke upthe dance and ran after her toward the house. but, when they arrived, thedoor had been bolted with iron, wherefore they could not get near her ortouch her in any way. and the damsel had been placed securely in achamber.The youth, having her now under his roof, as is the saying, endeavored,with all his talent, to win her affection and to induce her to wed. Butat first she would on no account hear of it. On seeing his persistence,however, and on finding that he would not let her go to return to herpeople, she consented to be his servant if he could find out her name. butshe would not be married to him.As he thought that was not impossible, he half agreed to the condition.but, after bothering his head with all the names known in thatneighborhood, he found himself no nearer his point, though he was notwilling to give up the search hurriedly.One night, as he was going home from Carnarvon market, he saw a numberof the fair folks in a turbary not far from his path. They seemed to himto be engaged in an important deliberation, and it struck him that theywere planning how to recover their abducted sister. He thought, moreover,that if he could secretly get within hearing, he might possibly find hername out. On looking carefully around, he saw that a ditch ran throughthe turbary and passed near the spot where they stood. So he made his wayround to the ditch, and crept, on all fours, along it until he was withinhearing of the family.After listening a little, he found that their deliberation was as tothe fate of the lady he had carried away, and he heard one of them crying,piteously, "O Penelop, O Penelop, my sister, why didst thou run away witha mortal!""Penelop," said the young man to himself, "that must be the name of mybeloved. that is enough."At once he began to creep back quietly, and he returned home safelywithout having been seen by the fairies. When he got into the house, hecalled out to the girl, saying, "Penelop, my beloved one, come here!" andshe came forward and asked, in astonishment, "O mortal, who has betrayedmy name to thee?"Then, lifting up her tiny folded hands, she exclaimed, "Alas, my fate,my fate!"But she grew contented with her fate, and took to her work in earnest.Everything in the house and on the farm prospered under her charge. Therewas no better or cleanlier housewife in the neighborhood around, or onethat was more provident than she.The young man, however, was not satisfied that she should be a servantto him, and, after he had long and persistently sought it, she consentedto be married, on the one condition, that, if ever he should touch herwith iron, she would be free to leave him and return to her family.He agreed to that condition, since he believed that such a thing wouldnever happen at his hands.So they were marred, and lived several years happily and comfortablytogether. Two children where born to them, a boy and a girl, the pictureof their mother and the idols of their father. But one morning, when thehusband wanted to go to the fair at Carnarvon, he went out to catch afilly that was grazing in the field by the house. but for the life of himhe could not catch her, and he called to his wife to come to assisthim.She came without delay, and they managed to drive the filly to a securecorner, as they thought. but, as the man approached to catch her, sherushed past him. In his excitement, he threw the bridle after her. butwho should be running in the direction of it, but his wife!The iron bit struck her on the cheek, and she vanished out of sight onthe spot. Her husband never saw her any more. but one cold frosty night,a long time after this event, he was awakened from his sleep by somebodyrubbing the glass of his window, and, after he had given a response, herecognized the gentle and tender voice of his wife saying to him:Lest my son should find it cold,Place on him his father's coat.Lest the fair one find it cold,Place on her my petticoat.It is said that the descendants of this family still continue in theseneighborhoods, and that they are easy to be recognized by their light andfair complexion.