There was once a princess, yonder in England,who was so beautiful that none might compareto her, and she actually had it printed in the papersbut at the same time she was so haughty that shescarcely recognized herself.The king, here in Denmark,had a son, who also had a good opinion ofhimself, and it occurred to him to set forth and suefor the princess's hand. So he took ship and set sailwith a great retinue. When he reached London, hewent to the castle and told the king of his intentions.The king said he had no objection, save that theprincess must have a free hand in the matter, andso they called her. But when the prince made hisproposal, she threw back her head, and said she nomore wished to have any dealings with him thanwith her father's blacking brush or blacking. Andwith that he was at liberty to march off.Now he decided that he would play a trick on herin payment for her answer. So he went back to hisship, and had his things brought ashore and placedin a room which he had hired, and instructed hispeople to sail home and tell his father he would notbe back for the present.Then he told his servant to go to town, find theshabbiest vagabond to be met with, and changeclothes with him. The servant went up and downthe streets, and there saw many a poor devil. butit was his task to find the most wretched looking ofall.At last he heard voices in a cellar and wentdown. There sat a fellow called Peter Redhat, andhe was the raggedest the servant had seen thus far.The servant asked whether he would change clotheswith him. But Peter Redhat grew furious, becausehe thought the other wished to make a fool of him.Yet he was quite in earnest, and so the change wasmade. Peter had an enormously large, broad brimmedhat, known throughout the city. and thisthe servant obtained as well. Back he went to theprince with these clothes, and all was satisfactory.In the meantime the prince had visited a goldsmith,and had ordered a golden distaff, a goldenspindle, and a golden yarn reel, and when they wereready he put on Peter Redhat's clothes and wentwith his golden distaff to the king's garden. Therehe sat down and began to spin beneath the princess'swindows.When she awoke and saw Peter Redhatsitting there, spinning with a golden distaff, shesent down one of her maids to him, with the princess'scompliments, to ask whether she could not buythe distaff from him.Yes, it could be done, but hewished to speak to her himself.She did not muchcare to do so, yet she had never seen anything quiteso handsome as the distaff, and she wanted it somuch that she made up her mind to go down toPeter. Then she asked him what he asked for thedistaff.All he wanted was permission to sit in herroom for a night. The princess was half inclinedto be angry, and turned on her heel with the words:"No! Fie, for shame, that such a pig should sit inmy room! That cannot be."But that was the onlyway she could obtain the distaff, said he, for hewould not sell it for money.The princess looked atthe distaff, and her wish to possess it grew stronger,and the longer she looked the more she wanted it.till she felt that she simply could not go on livingwithout the distaff. So she discussed with herladies in waiting whether the matter might be arranged.They decided that it might, if he were willingto promise to remain seated in one and the sameplace, and they remained on guard in the room overnight.So she received the distaff, and at evening PeterRedhat came and sat him down on a chair near alittle table. There he sat all night long, and didnot move from the spot. In the morning he had toleave, so he went down and took his golden spindle.The princess slept late, and when she awoke she sawPeter Redhat sitting in the garden, reeling the yarnthat he had spun the day before.When the princesssaw the spindle she sent down one of her maids,with her compliments, to ask whether she could notbuy the spindle from him.Yes, the princess couldbuy it, but he wished to talk to her himself. So shecame down to him, for she wanted the spindle verymuch, and it seemed to her that it must be joinedto the distaff."What does it cost?" she asked him.It cost nomore than the permission to sit over night by theside of her bed."Fie, for shame! Peter Redhat sitting beside mybed," cried she, "that would never do!"But shecould get the spindle no other way. So she went into her ladies in waiting, and asked whether they didnot think that he might be allowed to sit beside herbed, if all twelve of them sat there too, and three orfour lights were placed on the table, because she hadsuch a desire to obtain the spindle. And they decidedthat if they put the table, with five lights on it, closeto the bed, and then stationed themselves around thetable, close to the bed, it might answer.So she gotthe spindle, and Peter Redhat came that eveningand sat down in a chair beside the bed in which shelay. But the princess did not sleep much that night,because Peter Redhat sat there and looked at herthe whole night through.When day dawned he had to leave again, and thistime he went home and took the golden bobbin, fornow he had to wind the yarn that he had reeled theday before. The princess slept somewhat late. butwhen she awoke and came to the window, there satPeter Redhat, diligently winding yarn. She at oncefell in love with the bobbin, for she had never yetseen one so beautiful, and if she could obtain it shewould have the complete spinning set.She sentdown one of her ladies, with her compliments, to askwhether she could not buy the bobbin.Yes, surelyshe could buy the bobbin, but he himself wished totalk to her. So she had to come down to Peter forthe third time."What does the bobbin cost?" she asked him.No more than permission to lie at the foot of theprincess's bed that night.Fie, for shame, that Peter Redhat should lie atthe foot of her bed! That could never be! Andshe grew angry.But there was no other way ofgetting the bobbin, and so she consulted her ladies in waiting about it.They thought that if she placedtwelve chairs along the sides of the bed, and one ofthem were to sit on each chair with a lighted candle,it might be done, for, of course, they knew what theprincess wanted.The princess received the bobbin,and at evening, when she had gone to bed, PeterRedhat came. She lay as close as she could to thewall, and he was ordered to lie as closely as lie couldagainst the foot of the bed. Then he began to undress,and he flung one garment here and anotherthere, and his big red hat he threw in front of thedoor. Then he lay down and at once began to snore,so that the walls shook.Now the ladies in waiting had been on guard fortwo nights in succession and, one after another, theyfell asleep, and the candles fell from their hands,and went out and at last there was only a singlelight left burning   all the other ladies were sleeping.Then the princess said that since he was sleepingso very soundly, the light might be put out, ifonly the ladies would be ready to come should shecall them.But the ladies were not called, and all ofthem slept so very late, right into the next forenoon,that the king himself came to wake hisdaughter. But when he opened the door he couldnot get in, because of Peter's hat, which he first hadto shove aside. The king recognized the hat at once,and became furiously angry.Peter Redhat had toget up, into his clothes and be off as soon as possible.and then came his daughter's turn. She wasbanished from the country and had to leave thatvery day So she had to make the best of it and seethat she got away. Some money was given her, butit was far too little, since she now had to look outfor herself, and was not used to traveling alone.When she drove off, Peter Redhat sat up behind, andwhen she stopped at an inn to remain overnight,Peter Redhat stopped there too. She saw to it thatshe had the best of everything, but Peter Redhatlived as simply as possible.On the following day she drove on, and so it wentfor several days. while Peter always saw to it thathe kept pace with her. In the course of time theprincess's money came to an end, and she had to goa foot.Peter took a couple of good sandwicheswith him and when the princess started out, hestarted out at the same time. He passed her andsaid good day, but she did not answer him, andwould not even glance at the side of the road onwhich he walked. In the evening they reached aninn, and she was given the best room, while Peterhad to be satisfied with one less than second best.On the following day he passed her again, and whenhe said good day to her, she was at last able to lookaround and thank him. Then he asked her whethershe would not like to have a sandwich.Yes, shewould, for her money was going fast. soon shewould be unable to pay for a night's lodging. ThenPeter said he would pay for her. They came to aninn and left it again the following morning. Thenhe told her that he could not keep on paying her waybecause his money was also coming to an end. Theycame to a river and had to cross, and Peter paid forboth. When they had crossed, it was evening, andagain they had to look for a place where they mightspend the night.They were in the prince's owncountry by this time, and they came to a forest closeto his father's castle. Now the princess had tothank God that she had Peter Redhat. for therewas no one else upon whom she could lean, andthey found a tiny hut in the woods, where theystayed."What shall we do now? We have not a singleshilling left!" She did not know what to suggest."Then there is nothing left for us to do," said he,"but wander about and beg. for, of course, we cannotsteal."So they agreed to meet at the hut once or twicea day. She made a little bag to hold meal, and gritsand bread crusts, and then they separated and eachwent his way for the day.Of course the prince went home to the castle, andbrought back a large purse of gold in his pocket.but she wandered about and gathered such scrapsas the people gave her, and in the evening they metin the hut. He asked her what she had taken in, andshe showed him: a few pieces of bread, a little mealand grits, and a few bits of meat."Oh," said he, "you do not bring back much whenyou go a begging! Just see what I have!"And he drew the big purse with all the money in it fromhis pocket, and said that it was what he had collectedthat day."But it would be best for us to take service somewhere."Yes, she was willing, was her answer."Well, what work can you do?" he asked her.She would prefer to find a place as a seamstress.He did not know whether she could manage to geta place as a seamstress, but he did know where theywould take her in to wash dishes. The fact was thatthe following day there was to be a great banquetat court, because the prince had returned and, tojudge by what the people said, there would be awedding.Then he made her believe that he had found employmentat the castle as a wood chopper, and sohe would be able to have her out in the kitchen."But could you not arrange to bring me a pot ofsoup at dinner time from what is left on the table?""Yes, but how am I to manage to carry it to youwithout attracting attention?" said she."You can tie a cord around your waist, underyour apron, and hang the pot on it."She thought she could manage this, and he toldher which way to go in order to meet him.In the morning she went up to the castle and beganher work. They gave her a pair of old kettlesto scour, and she nearly scoured them to pieces.but the prince had told the cook in advance that agirl would put in an appearance at a certain time,and that he was to give her plenty to do, but shewas not to be otherwise molested, and they werenot to push, beat or handle her ungently.When the court had eaten dinner, the kitchen maid askedpermission to go to town for a while. and fillinga little pot with soup and meat, she tied it underher apron, and started out to find Peter Redhat.She had to pass several doors at which guards werestanding, who invited her to come in and dance withthem. for on that day whoever wished to was allowedto enter the great hall and dance.But sheexcused herself, saying that she had no time tospare. At last she saw the door through whichPeter had told her to pass, and there someoneseized her, and dragged her into the hall where thebanquet was in progress. The prince came up atonce, and led her out to dance, and she had to yield,willy nilly. But she did not recognize him, for hewas wearing his princely clothes.The music began,and the prince danced with her so lustily that thedumplings and scraps fairly rolled all around thefloor. Everyone wanted to know whose they were,because a number of others were also dancing. Butshe at once admitted that she was guilty. She hada sweetheart, she said, who was employed in thecastle, and she had been on her way to him with alittle pot of soup.Then the king asked her whichway she had been told to take. Her sweetheart hadtold her she should pass through the door at theright hand side of the castle gate.Then the kingasked her again whether she would recognize theman again if she saw him.Indeed she would recognizehim, for they had traveled many miles together."Then pick him out," said the king, "for here areall the people who are employed in the castle."No, he was not among them, said she. But the kingkept on talking to her, and meanwhile the princestole out of the room, put on the old clothes he hadworn while they had been together, went outsideand walked past the window at which she stood.Then she pointed him out and said: "That is mysweetheart walking there."Thereupon he came into them, and the king himself could hardly recognizehim as he now appeared.He said to the princess:"Do you not think it might have been better for youhad you taken the king's son out of Denmark, ofwhom you made so much fun?""Ah, do not speak of it," said she, "I have troubleenough as it is.""Yes, but if he is still willing to take you, do youthink he would be good enough for you?""It would be wonderful, no doubt, but that opportunitywill never recur.""And yet it might," said he, "if you promise methat you will never again be ruled by arrogance andhaughtiness."Then he told his father and guests that this wasthe princess for whose sake he had traveled to England.and that he had played a trick upon her becauseshe had been so arrogant when he had soughther out the first time, and had not been willing toso much as look at him. But now he was convincedthat she had changed, and that the time had comewhen she should know who he really was, and beraised from her low estate.So they brought hergarments, and he laid aside Peter Redhat's rags,and the wedding was held at once. Since he wasthe crown prince of the land, he became king afterhis father's death and she, as was no more thanright, became queen. But her parents always helda grudge against him because he had humiliated her.