who wants to teach him to do tricks. The Donkey becomes lame and is soldto a man who wants to use his skin for a drumhead.Very sad and downcast were the two poor little fellows as they stoodand looked at each other. Outside the room, the Little Man grew more andmore impatient, and finally gave the door such a violent kick thatit flew open. With his usual sweet smile on his lips, he looked atPinocchio and Lamp Wick and said to them:"Fine work, boys! You have brayed well, so well that I recognized yourvoices immediately, and here I am."On hearing this, the two Donkeys bowed their heads in shame, droppedtheir ears, and put their tails between their legs.At first, the Little Man petted and caressed them and smoothed downtheir hairy coats. Then he took out a currycomb and worked over themtill they shone like glass. Satisfied with the looks of the two littleanimals, he bridled them and took them to a market place far away fromthe Land of Toys, in the hope of selling them at a good price.In fact, he did not have to wait very long for an offer. Lamp Wick wasbought by a farmer whose donkey had died the day before. Pinocchio wentto the owner of a circus, who wanted to teach him to do tricks for hisaudiences.And now do you understand what the Little Man's profession was? Thishorrid little being, whose face shone with kindness, went about theworld looking for boys. Lazy boys, boys who hated books, boys who wantedto run away from home, boys who were tired of school all these were hisjoy and his fortune. He took them with him to the Land of Toys and letthem enjoy themselves to their heart's content. When, after months ofall play and no work, they became little donkeys, he sold them on themarket place. In a few years, he had become a millionaire.What happened to Lamp Wick? My dear children, I do not know. Pinocchio,I can tell you, met with great hardships even from the first day.After putting him in a stable, his new master filled his manger withstraw, but Pinocchio, after tasting a mouthful, spat it out.Then the man filled the manger with hay. But Pinocchio did not like thatany better."Ah, you don't like hay either?" he cried angrily. "Wait, my prettyDonkey, I'll teach you not to be so particular."Without more ado, he took a whip and gave the Donkey a hearty blowacross the legs.Pinocchio screamed with pain and as he screamed he brayed:"Haw! Haw! Haw! I can't digest straw!""Then eat the hay!" answered his master, who understood the Donkeyperfectly."Haw! Haw! Haw! Hay gives me a headache!""Do you pretend, by any chance, that I should feed you duck or chicken?"asked the man again, and, angrier than ever, he gave poor Pinocchioanother lashing.At that second beating, Pinocchio became very quiet and said no more.After that, the door of the stable was closed and he was left alone. Itwas many hours since he had eaten anything and he started to yawn fromhunger. As he yawned, he opened a mouth as big as an oven.Finally, not finding anything else in the manger, he tasted the hay.After tasting it, he chewed it well, closed his eyes, and swallowed it."This hay is not bad," he said to himself. "But how much happier Ishould be if I had studied! Just now, instead of hay, I should be eatingsome good bread and butter. Patience!"Next morning, when he awoke, Pinocchio looked in the manger for morehay, but it was all gone. He had eaten it all during the night.He tried the straw, but, as he chewed away at it, he noticed to hisgreat disappointment that it tasted neither like rice nor like macaroni."Patience!" he repeated as he chewed. "If only my misfortune might serveas a lesson to disobedient boys who refuse to study! Patience! Havepatience!""Patience indeed!" shouted his master just then, as he came into thestable. "Do you think, perhaps, my little Donkey, that I have broughtyou here only to give you food and drink? Oh, no! You are to help meearn some fine gold pieces, do you hear? Come along, now. I am goingto teach you to jump and bow, to dance a waltz and a polka, and even tostand on your head."Poor Pinocchio, whether he liked it or not, had to learn all thesewonderful things. but it took him three long months and cost him many,many lashings before he was pronounced perfect.The day came at last when Pinocchio's master was able to announce anextraordinary performance. The announcements, posted all around thetown, and written in large letters, read thus:GREAT SPECTACLE TONIGHTLEAPS AND EXERCISES BY THE GREAT ARTISTSAND THE FAMOUS HORSESof theCOMPANYFirst Public Appearanceof theFAMOUS DONKEYcalledPINOCCHIOTHE STAR OF THE DANCE  The Theater will be as Light as DayThat night, as you can well imagine, the theater was filled tooverflowing one hour before the show was scheduled to start.Not an orchestra chair could be had, not a balcony seat, nor a galleryseat. not even for their weight in gold.The place swarmed with boys and girls of all ages and sizes, wrigglingand dancing about in a fever of impatience to see the famous Donkeydance.When the first part of the performance was over, the Owner and Managerof the circus, in a black coat, white knee breeches, and patent leatherboots, presented himself to the public and in a loud, pompous voice madethe following announcement:"Most honored friends, Gentlemen and Ladies!"Your humble servant, the Manager of this theater, presents himselfbefore you tonight in order to introduce to you the greatest, the mostfamous Donkey in the world, a Donkey that has had the great honor in hisshort life of performing before the kings and queens and emperors of allthe great courts of Europe."We thank you for your attention!"This speech was greeted by much laughter and applause. And the applausegrew to a roar when Pinocchio, the famous Donkey, appeared in the circusring. He was handsomely arrayed. A new bridle of shining leather withbuckles of polished brass was on his back. two white camellias were tiedto his ears. ribbons and tassels of red silk adorned his mane, which wasdivided into many curls. A great sash of gold and silver was fastenedaround his waist and his tail was decorated with ribbons of manybrilliant colors. He was a handsome Donkey indeed!The Manager, when introducing him to the public, added these words:"Most honored audience! I shall not take your time tonight to tell youof the great difficulties which I have encountered while trying to tamethis animal, since I found him in the wilds of Africa. Observe, I begof you, the savage look of his eye. All the means used by centuries ofcivilization in subduing wild beasts failed in this case. I had finallyto resort to the gentle language of the whip in order to bring him tomy will. With all my kindness, however, I never succeeded in gaining myDonkey's love. He is still today as savage as the day I found him. Hestill fears and hates me. But I have found in him one great redeemingfeature. Do you see this little bump on his forehead? It is this bumpwhich gives him his great talent of dancing and using his feet as nimblyas a human being. Admire him, O signori, and enjoy yourselves. I letyou, now, be the judges of my success as a teacher of animals. BeforeI leave you, I wish to state that there will be another performancetomorrow night. If the weather threatens rain, the great spectacle willtake place at eleven o'clock in the morning."The Manager bowed and then turned to Pinocchio and said: "Ready,Pinocchio! Before starting your performance, salute your audience!"Pinocchio obediently bent his two knees to the ground and remainedkneeling until the Manager, with the crack of the whip, cried sharply:"Walk!"The Donkey lifted himself on his four feet and walked around the ring. Afew minutes passed and again the voice of the Manager called:"Quickstep!" and Pinocchio obediently changed his step."Gallop!" and Pinocchio galloped."Full speed!" and Pinocchio ran as fast as he could. As he ran themaster raised his arm and a pistol shot rang in the air.At the shot, the little Donkey fell to the ground as if he were reallydead.A shower of applause greeted the Donkey as he arose to his feet. Criesand shouts and handclappings were heard on all sides.At all that noise, Pinocchio lifted his head and raised his eyes. There,in front of him, in a box sat a beautiful woman. Around her neck shewore a long gold chain, from which hung a large medallion. On themedallion was painted the picture of a Marionette."That picture is of me! That beautiful lady is my Fairy!" said Pinocchioto himself, recognizing her. He felt so happy that he tried his best tocry out:"Oh, my Fairy! My own Fairy!"But instead of words, a loud braying was heard in the theater, so loudand so long that all the spectators men, women, and children, butespecially the children burst out laughing.Then, in order to teach the Donkey that it was not good manners to braybefore the public, the Manager hit him on the nose with the handle ofthe whip.The poor little Donkey stuck out a long tongue and licked his nose for along time in an effort to take away the pain.And what was his grief when on looking up toward the boxes, he saw thatthe Fairy had disappeared!He felt himself fainting, his eyes filled with tears, and he weptbitterly. No one knew it, however, least of all the Manager, who,cracking his whip, cried out:"Bravo, Pinocchio! Now show us how gracefully you can jump through therings."Pinocchio tried two or three times, but each time he came near the ring,he found it more to his taste to go under it. The fourth time, at a lookfrom his master he leaped through it, but as he did so his hind legscaught in the ring and he fell to the floor in a heap.When he got up, he was lame and could hardly limp as far as the stable."Pinocchio! We want Pinocchio! We want the little Donkey!" cried theboys from the orchestra, saddened by the accident.No one saw Pinocchio again that evening.The next morning the veterinary that is, the animal doctor declaredthat he would be lame for the rest of his life."What do I want with a lame donkey?" said the Manager to the stableboy."Take him to the market and sell him."When they reached the square, a buyer was soon found."How much do you ask for that little lame Donkey?" he asked."Four dollars.""I'll give you four cents. Don't think I'm buying him for work. I wantonly his skin. It looks very tough and I can use it to make myself adrumhead. I belong to a musical band in my village and I need a drum."I leave it to you, my dear children, to picture to yourself the greatpleasure with which Pinocchio heard that he was to become a drumhead!As soon as the buyer had paid the four cents, the Donkey changed hands.His new owner took him to a high cliff overlooking the sea, put a stonearound his neck, tied a rope to one of his hind feet, gave him a push,and threw him into the water.Pinocchio sank immediately. And his new master sat on the cliff waitingfor him to drown, so as to skin him and make himself a drumhead.