to his surprise, the omelet flies out of the window.If the Cricket's death scared Pinocchio at all, it was only for a veryfew moments. For, as night came on, a queer, empty feeling at the pit ofhis stomach reminded the Marionette that he had eaten nothing as yet.A boy's appetite grows very fast, and in a few moments the queer, emptyfeeling had become hunger, and the hunger grew bigger and bigger, untilsoon he was as ravenous as a bear.Poor Pinocchio ran to the fireplace where the pot was boiling andstretched out his hand to take the cover off, but to his amazement thepot was only painted! Think how he felt! His long nose became at leasttwo inches longer.He ran about the room, dug in all the boxes and drawers, and even lookedunder the bed in search of a piece of bread, hard though it might be,or a cookie, or perhaps a bit of fish. A bone left by a dog would havetasted good to him! But he found nothing.And meanwhile his hunger grew and grew. The only relief poor Pinocchiohad was to yawn. and he certainly did yawn, such a big yawn that hismouth stretched out to the tips of his ears. Soon he became dizzy andfaint. He wept and wailed to himself: "The Talking Cricket was right. Itwas wrong of me to disobey Father and to run away from home. If he werehere now, I wouldn't be so hungry! Oh, how horrible it is to be hungry!"Suddenly, he saw, among the sweepings in a corner, something round andwhite that looked very much like a hen's egg. In a jiffy he pounced uponit. It was an egg.The Marionette's joy knew no bounds. It is impossible to describe it,you must picture it to yourself. Certain that he was dreaming, he turnedthe egg over and over in his hands, fondled it, kissed it, and talked toit:"And now, how shall I cook you? Shall I make an omelet? No, it is betterto fry you in a pan! Or shall I drink you? No, the best way is to fryyou in the pan. You will taste better."No sooner said than done. He placed a little pan over a foot warmer fullof hot coals. In the pan, instead of oil or butter, he poured alittle water. As soon as the water started to boil tac! he broke theeggshell. But in place of the white and the yolk of the egg, a littleyellow Chick, fluffy and gay and smiling, escaped from it. Bowingpolitely to Pinocchio, he said to him:"Many, many thanks, indeed, Mr. Pinocchio, for having saved me thetrouble of breaking my shell! Good by and good luck to you and rememberme to the family!"With these words he spread out his wings and, darting to the openwindow, he flew away into space till he was out of sight.The poor Marionette stood as if turned to stone, with wide eyes, openmouth, and the empty halves of the egg shell in his hands. When he cameto himself, he began to cry and shriek at the top of his lungs, stampinghis feet on the ground and wailing all the while:"The Talking Cricket was right! If I had not run away from home and ifFather were here now, I should not be dying of hunger. Oh, how horribleit is to be hungry!"And as his stomach kept grumbling more than ever and he had nothingto quiet it with, he thought of going out for a walk to the near byvillage, in the hope of finding some charitable person who might givehim a bit of bread.