chicken coop.Pinocchio, as you may well imagine, began to scream and weep and beg.but all was of no use, for no houses were to be seen and not a soulpassed by on the road.Night came on.A little because of the sharp pain in his legs, a little because offright at finding himself alone in the darkness of the field, theMarionette was about to faint, when he saw a tiny Glowworm flickeringby. He called to her and said:"Dear little Glowworm, will you set me free?""Poor little fellow!" replied the Glowworm, stopping to look at him withpity. "How came you to be caught in this trap?""I stepped into this lonely field to take a few grapes and ""Are the grapes yours?""No.""Who has taught you to take things that do not belong to you?""I was hungry.""Hunger, my boy, is no reason for taking something which belongs toanother.""It's true, it's true!" cried Pinocchio in tears. "I won't do it again."Just then, the conversation was interrupted by approaching footsteps.It was the owner of the field, who was coming on tiptoes to see if, bychance, he had caught the Weasels which had been eating his chickens.Great was his surprise when, on holding up his lantern, he saw that,instead of a Weasel, he had caught a boy!"Ah, you little thief!" said the Farmer in an angry voice. "So you arethe one who steals my chickens!""Not I! No, no!" cried Pinocchio, sobbing bitterly. "I came here only totake a very few grapes.""He who steals grapes may very easily steal chickens also. Take my wordfor it, I'll give you a lesson that you'll remember for a long while."He opened the trap, grabbed the Marionette by the collar, and carriedhim to the house as if he were a puppy. When he reached the yard infront of the house, he flung him to the ground, put a foot on his neck,and said to him roughly: "It is late now and it's time for bed. Tomorrowwe'll settle matters. In the meantime, since my watchdog died today, youmay take his place and guard my henhouse."No sooner said than done. He slipped a dog collar around Pinocchio'sneck and tightened it so that it would not come off. A long iron chainwas tied to the collar. The other end of the chain was nailed to thewall."If tonight it should happen to rain," said the Farmer, "you can sleepin that little doghouse near by, where you will find plenty of straw fora soft bed. It has been Melampo's bed for three years, and it will begood enough for you. And if, by any chance, any thieves should come, besure to bark!"After this last warning, the Farmer went into the house and closed thedoor and barred it.Poor Pinocchio huddled close to the doghouse more dead than alive fromcold, hunger, and fright. Now and again he pulled and tugged at thecollar which nearly choked him and cried out in a weak voice:"I deserve it! Yes, I deserve it! I have been nothing but a truant anda vagabond. I have never obeyed anyone and I have always done as Ipleased. If I were only like so many others and had studied and workedand stayed with my poor old father, I should not find myself herenow, in this field and in the darkness, taking the place of a farmer'swatchdog. Oh, if I could start all over again! But what is done can't beundone, and I must be patient!"After this little sermon to himself, which came from the very depths ofhis heart, Pinocchio went into the doghouse and fell asleep.