next day with his feet all burned off.Pinocchio hated the dark street, but he was so hungry that, in spite ofit, he ran out of the house. The night was pitch black. It thundered,and bright flashes of lightning now and again shot across the sky,turning it into a sea of fire. An angry wind blew cold and raised denseclouds of dust, while the trees shook and moaned in a weird way.Pinocchio was greatly afraid of thunder and lightning, but the hunger hefelt was far greater than his fear. In a dozen leaps and bounds, hecame to the village, tired out, puffing like a whale, and with tonguehanging.The whole village was dark and deserted. The stores were closed, thedoors, the windows. In the streets, not even a dog could be seen. Itseemed the Village of the Dead.Pinocchio, in desperation, ran up to a doorway, threw himself upon thebell, and pulled it wildly, saying to himself: "Someone will surelyanswer that!"He was right. An old man in a nightcap opened the window and looked out.He called down angrily:"What do you want at this hour of night?""Will you be good enough to give me a bit of bread? I am hungry.""Wait a minute and I'll come right back," answered the old fellow,thinking he had to deal with one of those boys who love to roam aroundat night ringing people's bells while they are peacefully asleep.After a minute or two, the same voice cried:"Get under the window and hold out your hat!"Pinocchio had no hat, but he managed to get under the window just intime to feel a shower of ice cold water pour down on his poor woodenhead, his shoulders, and over his whole body.He returned home as wet as a rag, and tired out from weariness andhunger.As he no longer had any strength left with which to stand, he sat downon a little stool and put his two feet on the stove to dry them.There he fell asleep, and while he slept, his wooden feet began to burn.Slowly, very slowly, they blackened and turned to ashes.Pinocchio snored away happily as if his feet were not his own. At dawnhe opened his eyes just as a loud knocking sounded at the door."Who is it?" he called, yawning and rubbing his eyes."It is I," answered a voice.It was the voice of Geppetto.