Theater.See Pinocchio hurrying off to school with his new A B C book underhis arm! As he walked along, his brain was busy planning hundreds ofwonderful things, building hundreds of castles in the air. Talking tohimself, he said:"In school today, I'll learn to read, tomorrow to write, and the dayafter tomorrow I'll do arithmetic. Then, clever as I am, I can earn alot of money. With the very first pennies I make, I'll buy Father a newcloth coat. Cloth, did I say? No, it shall be of gold and silver withdiamond buttons. That poor man certainly deserves it. for, after all,isn't he in his shirt sleeves because he was good enough to buy abook for me? On this cold day, too! Fathers are indeed good to theirchildren!"As he talked to himself, he thought he heard sounds of pipes and drumscoming from a distance: pi pi pi, pi pi pi. . .zum, zum, zum, zum.He stopped to listen. Those sounds came from a little street that led toa small village along the shore."What can that noise be? What a nuisance that I have to go to school!Otherwise. . ."There he stopped, very much puzzled. He felt he had to make up his mindfor either one thing or another. Should he go to school, or should hefollow the pipes?"Today I'll follow the pipes, and tomorrow I'll go to school. There'salways plenty of time to go to school," decided the little rascal atlast, shrugging his shoulders.No sooner said than done. He started down the street, going like thewind. On he ran, and louder grew the sounds of pipe and drum: pi pi pi,pi pi pi, pi pi pi . . .zum, zum, zum, zum.Suddenly, he found himself in a large square, full of people standing infront of a little wooden building painted in brilliant colors."What is that house?" Pinocchio asked a little boy near him."Read the sign and you'll know.""I'd like to read, but somehow I can't today.""Oh, really? Then I'll read it to you. Know, then, that written inletters of fire I see the words: GREAT MARIONETTE THEATER."When did the show start?""It is starting now.""And how much does one pay to get in?""Four pennies."Pinocchio, who was wild with curiosity to know what was going on inside,lost all his pride and said to the boy shamelessly:"Will you give me four pennies until tomorrow?""I'd give them to you gladly," answered the other, poking fun at him,"but just now I can't give them to you.""For the price of four pennies, I'll sell you my coat.""If it rains, what shall I do with a coat of flowered paper? I could nottake it off again.""Do you want to buy my shoes?""They are only good enough to light a fire with.""What about my hat?""Fine bargain, indeed! A cap of dough! The mice might come and eat itfrom my head!"Pinocchio was almost in tears. He was just about to make one last offer,but he lacked the courage to do so. He hesitated, he wondered, he couldnot make up his mind. At last he said:"Will you give me four pennies for the book?""I am a boy and I buy nothing from boys," said the little fellow withfar more common sense than the Marionette."I'll give you four pennies for your A B C book," said a ragpicker whostood by.Then and there, the book changed hands. And to think that poor oldGeppetto sat at home in his shirt sleeves, shivering with cold, havingsold his coat to buy that little book for his son!