When birds were men, and men were birds, Pivi and Kabo lived in anisland far away, called New Claledonia. Pivi was a cheery little birdthat chirps at sunset. Kabo was an ugly black fowl that croaks in thedarkness. One day Pivi and Kabo thought that they would make slings, andpractice slinging, as the people of the island still do. So they went toa banyan tree, and stripped the bark to make strings for their slings,and next they repaired to the river bank to find stones. Kabo stood onthe bank of the river, and Pivi went into the water. The game was forKabo to sling at Pivi, and for Pivi to dodge the stones, if he could.For some time he dodged them cleverly, but at last a stone from Kabo'ssling hit poor Pivi on the leg and broke it. Down went Pivi into thestream, and floated along it, till he floated into a big hollow bamboo,which a woman used for washing her sweet potatoes.'What is that in my bamboo?' said the woman. And she blew in at one end,and blew little Pivi out at the other, like a pea from a pea shooter.'Oh!' cried the woman, 'what a state you are in! What have you beendoing?''It was Kabo who broke my leg at the slinging game,' said Pivi.'Well, I am sorry for you,' said the woman. 'will you come with me, anddo what I tell you?''I will!' said Pivi, for the woman was very kind and pretty. She tookPivi into a shed where she kept her fruit laid him on a bed of mats,and made him as comfortable as she could, and attended to his broken legwithout cutting off the flesh round the bone, as these people usuallydo.'You will be still, won't you, Pivi?' she said. 'If you hear a littlenoise you will pretend to be dead. It is the Black Ant who will come andcreep from your feet up to your head. Say nothing, and keep quiet, won'tyou, Pivi?''Certainly, kind lady,' said Pivi, 'I will lie as still as can be.''Next will come the big Red Ant you know him?''Yes, I know him, with his feet like a grasshopper's.''He will walk over your body up to your head. Then you must shake allyour body. Do you understand, Pivi?''Yes, dear lady, I shall do just as you say.''Very good,' said the woman, going out and shutting the door.Pivi lay still under his coverings, then a tiny noise was heard, and theBlack Ant began to march over Pivi, who lay quite still. Then came thebig Red Ant skipping along his body, and then Pivi shook himself allover. He jumped up quite well again, he ran to the river, he looked intothe water and saw that he was changed from a bird into a fine young man!'Oh, lady,' he cried, 'look at me now! I am changed into a man, and sohandsome!''Will you obey me again?' said the woman.'Always. whatever you command I will do it,' said Pivi, politely.'Then climb up that cocoa nut tree, with your legs only, not using yourhands,' said the woman.Now the natives can run up cocoa nut trees like squirrels, some usingonly one hand. the girls can do that. But few can climb without usingtheir hands at all.'At the top of the tree you will find two cocoa nuts. You must not throwthem down, but carry them in your hands. and you must descend as youwent up, using your legs only.''I shall try, at least,' said Pivi. And up he went, but it was verydifficult, and down he came.'Here are your cocoa nuts,' he said, presenting them to the woman.'Now, Pivi, put them in the shed where you lay, and when the sun sets tocool himself in the sea and rise again not so hot in the dawn you mustgo and take the nuts.'All day Pivi played about in the river, as the natives do, throwingfruit and silvery showers of water at each other. When the sun set hewent into the hut. But as he drew near he heard sweet voices talking andlaughing within.'What is that? People chattering in the hut! Perhaps they have taken mycocoa nuts,' said Pivi to himself.In he went, and there he found two pretty, laughing, teasing girls. Hehunted for his cocoanuts, but none were there.Down he ran to the river. 'Oh, lady, my nuts have been stolen!' hecried.'Come with me, Pivi, and there will be nuts for you,' said the woman.They went back to the hut, where the girls were laughing and playing.'Nuts for you?' said the woman, 'there are two wives for you, Pivi, takethem to your house.''Oh, good lady,' cried Pivi, 'how kind you are!'So they were married and very happy, when in came cross old Kabo.'Is this Pivi?' said he. 'Yes, it is no, it isn't. It is not the samePivi but there is a kind of likeness. Tell me, are you Pivi?''Oh, yes!' said Pivi. 'But I am much better looking, and there are mytwo wives, are they not beautiful?''You are mocking me, Pivi! Your wives? How? Where did you get them? You,with wives!'Then Pivi told Kabo about the kind woman, and all the wonderful thingsthat had happened to him.'Well, well!' said Kabo, 'but I want to be handsome too, and to havepretty young wives.''But how can we manage that?' asked Pivi.'Oh, we shall do all the same things over again play at slinging, and,this time, you shall break my leg, Pivi!''With all the pleasure in life,' said Pivi, who was always ready tooblige.So they went slinging, and Pivi broke Kabo's leg, and Kabo fell into theriver, and floated into the bamboo, and the woman blew him out, just asbefore. Then she picked up Kabo, and put him in the shed, and told himwhat to do when the Black Ant came, and what to do when the Red Antcame. But he didn't!When the Black Ant came, he shook himself, and behold, he had a twistedleg, and a hump back, and was as black as the ant.Then he ran to the woman.'Look, what a figure I am!' he said. but she only told him to climb thetree, as she had told Pivi.But Kabo climbed with both hands and feet, and he threw down the nuts,instead of carrying them down, and he put them in the hut. And when hewent back for them there he found two horrid old black hags, wrangling,and scolding, and scratching! So back he went to Pivi with his twobeautiful wives, and Pivi was very sorry, but what could he do? Nothing,but sit and cry.So, one day, Kabo came and asked Pivi to sail in his canoe to a placewhere he knew of a great big shell fish, enough to feed on for a week.Pivi went, and deep in the clear water they saw a monstrous shell fish,like an oyster, as big as a rock, with the shell wide open.'We shall catch it, and dry it, and kipper it,' said Pivi, 'and give adinner to all our friends!''I shall dive for it, and break it off the rock,' said Kabo, 'and thenyou must help me to drag it up into the canoe.'There the shell fish lay and gaped, but Kabo, though he dived in, keptwell out of the way of the beast.Up he came, puffing and blowing: 'Oh, Pivi,' he cried, 'I cannot moveit. Jump in and try yourself!'Pivi dived, with his spear, and the shell fish opened its shell wideryet, and sucked, and Pivi disappeared into its mouth, and the shell shutup with a snap!Kabo laughed like a fiend, and then went home.'Where is Pivi?' asked the two pretty girls. Kabo pretended to cry, andtold how Pivi had been swallowed.'But dry your tears, my darlings,' said Kabo, 'I will be your husband,and my wives shall be your slaves. Everything is for the best, in thebest of all possible worlds.''No, no!' cried the girls, 'we love Pivi. We do not love anyone else. Weshall stay at home, and weep for Pivi!''Wretched idiots!' cried Kabo. 'Pivi was a scoundrel who broke my leg,and knocked me into the river.'Then a little cough was heard at the door, and Kabo trembled, for heknew it was the cough of Pivi!'Ah, dear Pivi!' cried Kabo, rushing to the door. 'What joy! I wastrying to console your dear wives.'Pivi said not one word. He waved his hand, and five and twenty ofhis friends came trooping down the hill. They cut up Kabo into littlepieces. Pivi turned round, and there was the good woman of the river.'Pivi,' she said, 'how did you get out of the living tomb into whichKabo sent you?''I had my spear with me,' said Pivi. 'It was quite dry inside the shell,and I worked away at the fish with my spear, till he saw reason to openhis shell, and out I came.' Then the good woman laughed. and Pivi andhis two wives lived happy ever afterwards.(Moncelon. Bulletin de la Societe d'Anthropologie. Series iii. vol. ix.,pp. 613 365.)