Poultry Meg was the only person who lived in the new statelydwelling that had been built for the fowls and ducks belonging tothe manor house. It stood there where once the old knightly buildinghad stood with its tower, its pointed gables, its moat, and itsdrawbridge. Close by it was a wilderness of trees and thicket. herethe garden had been, and had stretched out to a great lake, whichwas now moorland. Crows and choughs flew screaming over the old trees,and there were crowds of birds. they did not seem to get fewer whenany one shot among them, but seemed rather to increase. One heardthe screaming into the poultry house, where Poultry Meg sat with theducklings running to and fro over her wooden shoes. She knew everyfowl and every duck from the moment it crept out of the shell. and shewas fond of her fowls and her ducks, and proud of the stately housethat had been built for them. Her own little room in the house wasclean and neat, for that was the wish of the gracious lady to whom thehouse belonged. She often came in the company of grand noble guests,to whom she showed "the hens' and ducks' barracks," as she calledthe little house.Here were a clothes cupboard, and an arm chair, and even achest of drawers. and on these drawers a polished metal plate had beenplaced, whereon was engraved the word "Grubbe," and this was thename of the noble family that had lived in the house of old. The brassplate had been found when they were digging the foundation. and theclerk has said it had no value except in being an old relic. The clerkknew all about the place, and about the old times, for he had hisknowledge from books, and many a memorandum had been written and putin his table drawer. But the oldest of the crows perhaps knew morethan he, and screamed it out in her own language. but that was thecrow's language, and the clerk did not understand that, clever as hewas.After the hot summer days the mist sometimes hung over themoorland as if a whole lake were behind the old trees, among which thecrows and the daws were fluttering. and thus it had looked when thegood Knight Grubbe had lived here when the old manor house stood withits thick red walls. The dog chain used to reach in those days quiteover the gateway. through the tower one went into a paved passagewhich led to the rooms. the windows were narrow, and the panes weresmall, even in the great hall where the dancing used to be. but in thetime of the last Grubbe, there had been no dancing in the hallwithin the memory of man, although an old drum still lay there thathad served as part of the music. Here stood a quaintly carvedcupboard, in which rare flower roots were kept, for my Lady Grubbe wasfond of plants and cultivated trees and shrubs. Her husbandpreferred riding out to shoot wolves and boars. and his littledaughter Marie always went with him part of the way. When she was onlyfive years old, she would sit proudly on her horse, and look saucilyround with her great black eyes. It was a great amusement to her tohit out among the hunting dogs with her whip. but her father wouldrather have seen her hit among the peasant boys, who came running upto stare at their lord.The peasant in the clay hut close by the knightly house had ason named Soren, of the same age as the gracious little lady. Theboy could climb well, and had always to bring her down the bird'snests. The birds screamed as loud as they could, and one of thegreatest of them hacked him with its beak over the eye so that theblood ran down, and it was at first thought the eye had beendestroyed. but it had not been injured after all. Marie Grubbe used tocall him her Soren, and that was a great favor, and was an advantageto Soren's father poor Jon, who had one day committed a fault, andwas to be punished by riding on the wooden horse. This same horsestood in the courtyard, and had four poles for legs, and a singlenarrow plant for a back. on this Jon had to ride astride, and someheavy bricks were fastened to his feet into the bargain, that he mightnot sit too comfortably. He made horrible grimaces, and Soren wept andimplored little Marie to interfere. She immediately ordered thatSoren's father should be taken down, and when they did not obey her,she stamped on the floor, and pulled at her father's sleeve till itwas torn to pieces. She would have her way, and she got her way, andSoren's father was taken down.Lady Grubbe, who now came up, parted her little daughter's hairfrom the child's brow, and looked at her affectionately. but Marie didnot understand why.She wanted to go to the hounds, and not to her mother, who wentdown into the garden, to the lake where the water lily bloomed, andthe heads of bulrushes nodded amid the reeds. and she looked at allthis beauty and freshness. "How pleasant!" she said. In the gardenstood at that time a rare tree, which she herself had planted. Itwas called the blood beech a kind of negro growing among the othertrees, so dark brown were the leaves. This tree required muchsunshine, for in continual shade it would become bright green like theother trees, and thus lose its distinctive character. In the loftychestnut trees were many birds' nests, and also in the thickets and inthe grassy meadows. It seemed as though the birds knew that theywere protected here, and that no one must fire a gun at them.Little Marie came here with Soren. He knew how to climb, as wehave already said, and eggs and fluffy feathered young birds werebrought down. The birds, great and small, flew about in terror andtribulation. the peewit from the fields, and the crows and daws fromthe high trees, screamed and screamed. it was just such din as thefamily will raise to the present day."What are you doing, you children?" cried the gentle lady. "thatis sinful!"Soren stood abashed, and even the little gracious lady looked downa little. but then he said, quite short and pretty,"My father lets me do it!""Craw craw! away away from here!" cried the great black birds, andthey flew away. but on the following day they came back, for they wereat home here.The quiet gentle lady did not remain long at home here on earth,for the good God called her away. and, indeed, her home was ratherwith Him than in the knightly house. and the church bells tolledsolemnly when her corpse was carried to the church, and the eyes ofthe poor people were wet with tears, for she had been good to them.When she was gone, no one attended to her plantations, and thegarden ran to waste. Grubbe the knight was a hard man, they said.but his daughter, young as she was, knew how to manage him. He used tolaugh and let her have her way. She was now twelve years old, andstrongly built. She looked the people through and through with herblack eyes, rode her horse as bravely as a man, and could fire off hergun like a practiced hunter.One day there were great visitors in the neighborhood, thegrandest visitors who could come. The young King, and his half brotherand comrade, the Lord Ulric Frederick Gyldenlowe. They wanted tohunt the wild boar, and to pass a few days at the castle of Grubbe.Gyldenlowe sat at table next to Marie Grubbe, and he took her bythe hand and gave her a kiss, as if she had been a relation. but shegave him a box on the ear, and told him she could not bear him, atwhich there was great laughter, as if that had been a very amusingthing.And perhaps it was very amusing, for, five years afterwards,when Marie had fulfilled her seventeenth year, a messenger arrivedwith a letter, in which Lord Gyldenlowe proposed for the hand of thenoble young lady. There was a thing for you!"He is the grandest and most gallant gentleman in the wholecountry," said Grubbe the knight. "that is not a thing to despise.""I don't care so very much about him," said Marie Grubbe. butshe did not despise the grandest man of all the country, who sat bythe king's side.Silver plate, and fine linen and woollen, went off to Copenhagenin a ship, while the bride made the journey by land in ten days. Butthe outfit met with contrary winds, or with no winds at all, forfour months passed before it arrived. and when it came, my LadyGyldenlowe was gone."I'd rather lie on coarse sacking than lie in his silken beds,"she declared. "I'd rather walk barefoot than drive with him in acoach!"Late one evening in November two women came riding into the townof Aarhuus. They were the gracious Lady Gyldenlowe (Marie Grubbe)and her maid. They came from the town of Weile, whither they hadcome in a ship from Copenhagen. They stopped at Lord Grubbe's stonemansion in Aarhuus. Grubbe was not well pleased with this visit. Mariewas accosted in hard words. but she had a bedroom given her, and gother beer soup of a morning. but the evil part of her father's naturewas aroused against her, and she was not used to that. She was notof a gentle temper, and we often answer as we are addressed. Sheanswered openly, and spoke with bitterness and hatred of herhusband, with whom she declared she would not live. she was toohonorable for that.A year went by, but it did not go by pleasantly. There were evilwords between the father and the daughter, and that ought never to be.Bad words bear bad fruit. What could be the end of such a state ofthings?"We two cannot live under the same roof," said the father one day."Go away from here to our old manor house. but you had better biteyour tongue off than spread any lies among the people."And so the two parted. She went with her maid to the old castlewhere she had been born, and near which the gentle, pious lady, hermother, was lying in the church vault. An old cowherd lived in thecourtyard, and was the only other inhabitant of the place. In therooms heavy black cobwebs hung down, covered with dust. in thegarden everything grew just as it would. hops and climbing plantsran like a net between the trees and bushes, and the hemlock andnettle grew larger and stronger. The blood beech had been outgrownby other trees, and now stood in the shade. and its leaves weregreen like those of the common trees, and its glory had departed.Crows and choughs, in great close masses, flew past over the tallchestnut trees, and chattered and screamed as if they had somethingvery important to tell one another as if they were saying, "Now she'scome back again, the little girl who had their eggs and their youngones stolen from them. and as for the thief who had got them down,he had to climb up a leafless tree, for he sat on a tall ship'smast, and was beaten with a rope's end if he did not behave himself."The clerk told all this in our own times. he had collected itand looked it up in books and memoranda. It was to be found, with manyother writings, locked up in his table drawer."Upward and downward is the course of the world," said he. "Itis strange to hear."And we will hear how it went with Marie Grubbe. We need not forthat forget Poultry Meg, who is sitting in her capital hen house, inour own time. Marie Grubbe sat down in her times, but not with thesame spirit that old Poultry Meg showed.The winter passed away, and the spring and the summer passed away,and the autumn came again, with the damp, cold sea fog. It was alonely, desolate life in the old manor house. Marie Grubbe took hergun in her hand and went out to the heath, and shot hares and foxes,and whatever birds she could hit. More than once she met the noble SirPalle Dyre, of Norrebak, who was also wandering about with his gun andhis dogs. He was tall and strong, and boasted of this when they talkedtogether. He could have measured himself against the deceased Mr.Brockenhuus, of Egeskov, of whom the people still talked. Palle Dyrehad, after the example of Brockenhuus, caused an iron chain with ahunting horn to be hung in his gateway. and when he came ridinghome, he used to seize the chain, and lift himself and his horsefrom the ground, and blow the horn."Come yourself, and see me do that, Dame Marie," he said. 'One canbreathe fresh and free at Norrebak.When she went to his castle is not known, but on the altarcandlestick in the church of Norrebak it was inscribed that theywere the gift of Palle Dyre and Marie Grubbe, of Norrebak Castle.A great stout man was Palle Dyre. He drank like a sponge. He waslike a tub that could never get full. he snored like a whole sty ofpigs, and he looked red and bloated."He is treacherous and malicious," said Dame Pally Dyre,Grubbe's daughter. Soon she was weary of her life with him, but thatdid not make it better.One day the table was spread, and the dishes grew cold. Palle Dyrewas out hunting foxes, and the gracious lady was nowhere to befound. Towards midnight Palle Dyre came home, but Dame Dyre cameneither at midnight, nor next morning. She had turned her back uponNorrebak, and had ridden away without saying good bye.It was gray, wet weather. the wind grew cold, and a flight ofblack screaming birds flew over her head. They were not so homeless asshe.First she journeyed southward, quite down into the German land.A couple of golden rings with costly stones were turned into money.and then she turned to the east, and then she turned again and wenttowards the west. She had no food before her eyes, and murmuredagainst everything, even against the good God himself, so wretched washer soul. Soon her body became wretched too, and she was scarcely ableto move a foot. The peewit flew up as she stumbled over the mound ofearth where it had built its nest. The bird cried, as it always cried,"You thief! you thief!" She had never stolen her neighbor's goods. butas a little girl she had caused eggs and young birds to be takenfrom the trees, and she thought of that now.From where she lay she could see the sand dunes. By the seashorelived fishermen. but she could not get so far, she was so ill. Thegreat white sea mews flew over her head, and screamed as the crows anddaws screamed at home in the garden of the manor house. The birds flewquite close to her, and at last it seemed to her as if they becameblack as crows, and then all was night before her eyes.When she opened her eyes again, she was being lifted andcarried. A great strong man had taken her up in his arms, and shewas looking straight into his bearded face. He had a scar over oneeye, which seemed to divide the eyebrow into two parts. Weak as shewas, he carried her to the ship, where he got a rating for it from thecaptain.The next day the ship sailed away. Madame Grubbe had not beenput ashore, so she sailed away with it. But she will return, willshe not? Yes, but where, and when?The clerk could tell about this too, and it was not a storywhich he patched together himself. He had the whole strange historyout of an old authentic book, which we ourselves can take out andread. The Danish historian, Ludwig Holberg, who has written so manyuseful books and merry comedies, from which we can get such a goodidea of his times and their people, tells in his letters of MarieGrubbe, where and how he met her. It is well worth hearing. but forall that, we don't at all forget Poultry Meg, who is sittingcheerful and comfortable in the charming fowl house.The ship sailed away with Marie Grubbe. That's where we left off.Long years went by.The plague was raging at Copenhagen. it was in the year 1711.The Queen of Denmark went away to her German home, the King quittedthe capital, and everybody who could do so hurried away. The students,even those who had board and lodging gratis, left the city. One ofthese students, the last who had remained in the free college, at lastwent away too. It was two o'clock in the morning. He was carryinghis knapsack, which was better stacked with books and writings thanwith clothes. A damp mist hung over the town. not a person was to beseen in the streets. the street doors around were marked with crosses,as a sign that the plague was within, or that all the inmates weredead. A great wagon rattled past him. the coachman brandished hiswhip, and the horses flew by at a gallop. The wagon was filled withcorpses. The young student kept his hand before his face, and smelt atsome strong spirits that he had with him on a sponge in a little brassscent case. Out of a small tavern in one of the streets there weresounds of singing and of unhallowed laughter, from people who drankthe night through to forget that the plague was at their doors, andthat they might be put into the wagon as the others had been. Thestudent turned his steps towards the canal at the castle bridge, wherea couple of small ships were lying. one of these was weighinganchor, to get away from the plague stricken city."If God spares our lives and grants us a fair wind, we are goingto Gronmud, near Falster," said the captain. and he asked the nameof the student who wished to go with him."Ludwig Holberg," answered the student. and the name soundedlike any other. But now there sounds in it one of the proudest namesof Denmark. then it was the name of a young, unknown student.The ship glided past the castle. It was not yet bright day when itwas in the open sea. A light wind filled the sails, and the youngstudent sat down with his face turned towards the fresh wind, and wentto sleep, which was not exactly the most prudent thing he could havedone.Already on the third day the ship lay by the island of Falster."Do you know any one here with whom I could lodge cheaply?"Holberg asked the captain."I should think you would do well to go to the ferry woman inBorrehaus," answered the captain. "If you want to be very civil toher, her name is Mother Soren Sorensen Muller. But it may happenthat she may fly into a fury if you are too polite to her. The manis in custody for a crime, and that's why she manages the ferry boatherself she has fists of her own."The student took his knapsack and betook himself to theferry house. The house door was not locked it opened, and he wentinto a room with a brick floor, where a bench, with a great coverletof leather, formed the chief article of furniture. A white hen, whohad a brood of chickens, was fastened to the bench, and had overturnedthe pipkin of water, so that the wet ran across the floor. Therewere no people either here or in the adjoining room. only a cradlestood there, in which was a child. The ferry boat came back withonly one person in it. Whether that person was a man or a woman wasnot an easy matter to determine. The person in question was wrapped ina great cloak, and wore a kind of hood. Presently the boat lay to.It was a woman who got out of it and came into the room. Shelooked very stately when she straightened her back. two proud eyeslooked forth from beneath her black eyebrows. It was Mother Soren, theferry wife. The crows and daws might have called out another namefor her, which we know better.She looked morose, and did not seem to care to talk. but this muchwas settled, that the student should board in her house for anindefinite time, while things looked so bad in Copenhagen.This or that honest citizen would often come to the ferry housefrom the neighboring little town. There came Frank the cutler, andSivert the exciseman. They drank a mug of beer in the ferry house, andused to converse with the student, for he was a clever young man,who knew his "Practica," as they called it. he could read Greek andLatin, and was well up in learned subjects."The less one knows, the less it presses upon one," said MotherSoren."You have to work hard," said Holberg one day, when she wasdipping clothes in the strong soapy water, and was obliged herselfto split the logs for the fire."That's my affair," she replied."Have you been obliged to toil in this way from your childhood?""You can read that from my hands," she replied, and held out herhands, that were small indeed, but hard and strong, with bitten nails."You are learned, and can read."At Christmas time it began to snow heavily. The cold came on,the wind blue sharp, as if there were vitriol in it to wash thepeople's faces. Mother Soren did not let that disturb her. she threwher cloak around her, and drew her hood over her head. Early in theafternoon it was already dark in the house she laid wood and turf onthe hearth, and then she sat down to darn her stockings, for there wasno one to do it for her. Towards evening she spoke more words to thestudent than it was customary with her to use. she spoke of herhusband."He killed a sailor of Dragor by mischance, and for that he has towork for three years in irons. He's only a common sailor, andtherefore the law must take its course.""The law is there for people of high rank, too," said Holberg."Do you think so?" said Mother Soren. then she looked into thefire for a while. but after a time she began to speak again. "Have youheard of Kai Lykke, who caused a church to be pulled down, and whenthe clergyman, Master Martin, thundered from the pulpit about it, hehad him put in irons, and sat in judgment upon him, and condemnedhim to death? Yes, and the clergyman was obliged to bow his head tothe stroke. And yet Kai Lykke went scot free.""He had a right to do as he did in those times," said Holberg."but now we have left those times behind us.""You may get a fool to believe that," cried Mother Soren. andshe got up and went into the room where the child lay. She lifted upthe child, and laid it down more comfortably. Then she arranged thebed place of the student. He had the green coverlet, for he felt thecold more than she, though he was born in Norway.On New Year's morning it was a bright sunshiny day. The frosthad been so strong, and was still so strong, that the fallen snowhad become a hard mass, and one could walk upon it. The bells of thelittle town were tolling for church. Student Holberg wrapped himselfup in his woollen cloak, and wanted to go to the town.Over the ferry house the crows and daws were flying with loudcries. one could hardly hear the church bells for their screaming.Mother Soren stood in front of the house, filling a brass pot withsnow, which she was going to put on the fire to get drinking water.She looked up to the crowd of birds, and thought her own thoughts.Student Holberg went to church. On his way there and on his returnhe passed by the house of tax collector Sivert, by the town gate. Herehe was invited to take a mug of brown beer with treacle and sugar. Thediscourse fell upon Mother Soren, but the tax collector did not knowmuch about her, and, indeed, few knew much about her. She did notbelong to the island of Falster, he said. she had a little property ofher own at one time. Her husband was a common sailor, a fellow of avery hot temper, and had killed a sailor of Dragor. and he beat hiswife, and yet she defended him."I should not endure such treatment," said the tax collector'swife. "I am come of more respectable people. My father wasstocking weaver to the Court.""And consequently you have married a governmental official,"said Holberg, and made a bow to her and to the collector.It was on Twelfth Night, the evening of the festival of theThree Kings, Mother Soren lit up for Holberg a three king candle, thatis, a tallow candle with three wicks, which she had herself prepared."A light for each man," said Holberg."For each man?" repeated the woman, looking sharply at him."For each of the wise men from the East," said Holberg."You mean it that way," said she, and then she was silent for along time. But on this evening he learned more about her than he hadyet known."You speak very affectionately of your husband," observed Holberg,"and yet the people say that he ill uses you every day.""That's no one's business but mine," she replied. "The blows mighthave done me good when I was a child. now, I suppose, I get them formy sins. But I know what good he has done me," and she rose up."When I lay sick upon the desolate heath, and no one would have pityon me, and no one would have anything to do with me, except thecrows and daws, which came to peck me to bits, he carried me in hisarms, and had to bear hard words because of the burden he brought onboard ship. It's not in my nature to be sick, and so I got well. Everyman has his own way, and Soren has his. but the horse must not bejudged by the halter. Taking one thing with another, I have lived moreagreeably with him than with the man whom they called the most nobleand gallant of the King's subjects. I have had the StadtholderGyldenlowe, the King's half brother, for my husband. and afterwardsI took Palle Dyre. One is as good as another, each in his own way, andI in mine. That was a long gossip, but now you know all about me."And with those words she left the room.It was Marie Grubbe! so strangely had fate played with her. Shedid not live to see many anniversaries of the festival of the ThreeKings. Holberg has recorded that she died in June, 1716. but he hasnot written down, for he did not know, that a number of great blackbirds circled over the ferry house, when Mother Soren, as she wascalled, was lying there a corpse. They did not scream, as if they knewthat at a burial silence should be observed. So soon as she lay in theearth, the birds disappeared. but on the same evening in Jutland, atthe old manor house, an enormous number of crows and choughs wereseen. they all cried as loud as they could, as if they had someannouncement to make. Perhaps they talked of him who, as a little boy,had taken away their eggs and their young. of the peasant's son, whohad to wear an iron garter, and of the noble young lady, who endedby being a ferryman's wife."Brave! brave!" they cried.And the whole family cried, "Brave! brave!" when the old house waspulled down."They are still crying, and yet there's nothing to cry about,"said the clerk, when he told the story. "The family is extinct, thehouse has been pulled down, and where it stood is now the statelypoultry house, with gilded weathercocks, and the old Poultry Meg.She rejoices greatly in her beautiful dwelling. If she had not comehere," the old clerk added, "she would have had to go into thework house."The pigeons cooed over her, the turkey cocks gobbled, and theducks quacked."Nobody knew her," they said. "she belongs to no family. It's purecharity that she is here at all. She has neither a drake father nora hen mother, and has no descendants."She came of a great family, for all that. but she did not know it,and the old clerk did not know it, though he had so much written down.but one of the old crows knew about it, and told about it. She hadheard from her own mother and grandmother about Poultry Meg's motherand grandmother. And we know the grandmother too. We saw her ride,as child, over the bridge, looking proudly around her, as if the wholeworld belonged to her, and all the birds' nests in it. and we sawher on the heath, by the sand dunes. and, last of all, in theferry house. The granddaughter, the last of her race, had come back tothe old home, where the old castle had stood, where the black wildbirds were screaming. but she sat among the tame birds, and these knewher and were fond of her. Poultry Meg had nothing left to wish for.she looked forward with pleasure to her death, and she was oldenough to die."Grave, grave!" cried the crows.And Poultry Meg has a good grave, which nobody knew except the oldcrow, if the old crow is not dead already.And now we know the story of the old manor house, of its oldproprietors, and of all Poultry Meg's family.