(30) From the Icelandic.Once upon a time there was a King and his Queen in their kingdom.They had one daughter, who was called Ingiborg, and one son, whose namewas Ring. He was less fond of adventures than men of rank usually werein those days, and was not famous for strength or feats of arms. When hewas twelve years old, one fine winter day he rode into the forest alongwith his men to enjoy himself. They went on a long way, until theycaught sight of a hind with a gold ring on its horns. The Prince waseager to catch it, if possible, so they gave chase and rode on withoutstopping until all the horses began to founder beneath them. At last thePrince's horse gave way too, and then there came over them a darkness soblack that they could no longer see the hind. By this time they were faraway from any house, and thought it was high time to be making their wayhome again, but they found they had got lost now. At first they all kepttogether, but soon each began to think that he knew the right way best.so they separated, and all went in different directions.The Prince, too, had got lost like the rest, and wandered on for a timeuntil he came to a little clearing in the forest not far from the sea,where he saw a woman sitting on a chair and a big barrel standingbeside her. The Prince went up to her and saluted her politely, and shereceived him very graciously. He looked down into the barrel then, andsaw lying at the bottom an unusually beautiful gold ring, which pleasedhim so much that he could not take his eyes off it. The woman saw this,and said that he might have it if he would take the trouble to get it.for which the Prince thanked her, and said it was at least worth trying.So he leaned over into the barrel, which did not seem very deep, andthought he would easily reach the ring. but the more he stretched downafter it the deeper grew the barrel. As he was thus bending down into itthe woman suddenly rose up and pushed him in head first, saying thatnow he could take up his quarters there. Then she fixed the top on thebarrel and threw it out into the sea.The Prince thought himself in a bad plight now, as he felt the barrelfloating out from the land and tossing about on the waves.How many days he spent thus he could not tell, but at last he felt thatthe barrel was knocking against rocks, at which he was a little cheered,thinking it was probably land and not merely a reef in the sea. Beingsomething of a swimmer, he at last made up his mind to kick the bottomout of the barrel, and having done so he was able to get on shore, forthe rocks by the sea were smooth and level. but overhead there were highcliffs. It seemed difficult to get up these, but he went along the footof them for a little, till at last he tried to climb up, which at lasthe did.Having got to the top, he looked round about him and saw that he wason an island, which was covered with forest, with apples growing, andaltogether pleasant as far as the land was concerned. After he had beenthere several days, he one day heard a great noise in the forest, whichmade him terribly afraid, so that he ran to hide himself among thetrees. Then he saw a Giant approaching, dragging a sledge loaded withwood, and making straight for him, so that he could see nothing for itbut to lie down just where he was. When the Giant came across him, hestood still and looked at the Prince for a little. then he took him upin his arms and carried him home to his house, and was exceedingly kindto him. He gave him to his wife, saying he had found this child in thewood, and she could have it to help her in the house. The old woman wasgreatly pleased, and began to fondle the Prince with the utmost delight.He stayed there with them, and was very willing and obedient to them ineverything, while they grew kinder to him every day.One day the Giant took him round and showed him all his rooms except theparlour. this made the Prince curious to have a look into it, thinkingthere must be some very rare treasure there. So one day, when the Gianthad gone into the forest, he tried to get into the parlour, and managedto get the door open half way. Then he saw that some living creaturemoved inside and ran along the floor towards him and said something,which made him so frightened that he sprang back from the door and shutit again. As soon as the fright began to pass off he tried it again, forhe thought it would be interesting to hear what it said. but things wentjust as before with him. He then got angry with himself, and, summoningup all his courage, tried it a third time, and opened the door of theroom and stood firm. Then he saw that it was a big Dog, which spoke tohim and said:'Choose me, Prince Ring.'The Prince went away rather afraid, thinking with himself that it was nogreat treasure after all. but all the same what it had said to him stuckin his mind.It is not said how long the Prince stayed with the Giant, but oneday the latter came to him and said he would now take him over to themainland out of the island, for he himself had no long time to live. Healso thanked him for his good service, and told him to choose some oneof his possessions, for he would get whatever he wanted. Ring thankedhim heartily, and said there was no need to pay him for his services,they were so little worth. but if he did wish to give him anything hewould choose what was in the parlour. The Giant was taken by surprise,and said:'There, you chose my old woman's right hand. but I must not break myword.'Upon this he went to get the Dog, which came running with signs of greatdelight. but the Prince was so much afraid of it that it was all hecould do to keep from showing his alarm.After this the Giant accompanied him down to the sea, where he saw astone boat which was just big enough to hold the two of them and theDog. On reaching the mainland the Giant took a friendly farewell ofRing, and told him he might take possession of all that was in theisland after he and his wife died, which would happen within two weeksfrom that time. The Prince thanked him for this and for all his otherkindnesses, and the Giant returned home, while Ring went up somedistance from the sea. but he did not know what land he had come to, andwas afraid to speak to the Dog. After he had walked on in silence for atime the Dog spoke to him and said:'You don't seem to have much curiosity, seeing you never ask my name.'The Prince then forced himself to ask, 'What is your name?''You had best call me Snati Snati,' said the Dog. 'Now we are coming toa King's seat, and you must ask the King to keep us all winter, and togive you a little room for both of us.'The Prince now began to be less afraid of the Dog. They came to the Kingand asked him to keep them all the winter, to which he agreed. When theKing's men saw the Dog they began to laugh at it, and make as if theywould tease it. but when the Prince saw this he advised them not to doit, or they might have the worst of it. They replied that they didn'tcare a bit what he thought.After Ring had been with the King for some days the latter began tothink there was a great deal in him, and esteemed him more than theothers. The King, however, had a counsellor called Red, who became veryjealous when he saw how much the King esteemed Ring. and one day hetalked to him, and said he could not understand why he had so good anopinion of this stranger, who had not yet shown himself superior toother men in anything. The King replied that it was only a short timesince he had come there. Red then asked him to send them both to cutdown wood next morning, and see which of them could do most work.Snati Snati heard this and told it to Ring, advising him to ask the Kingfor two axes, so that he might have one in reserve if the first onegot broken. Next morning the King asked Ring and Red to go and cut downtrees for him, and both agreed. Ring got the two axes, and each went hisown way. but when the Prince had got out into the wood Snati took one ofthe axes and began to hew along with him. In the evening the King cameto look over their day's work, as Red had proposed, and found thatRing's wood heap was more than twice as big.'I suspected,' said the King, 'that Ring was not quite useless. neverhave I seen such a day's work.'Ring was now in far greater esteem with the King than before, and Redwas all the more discontented. One day he came to the King and said, 'IfRing is such a mighty man, I think you might ask him to kill the wildoxen in the wood here, and flay them the same day, and bring you thehorns and the hides in the evening.''Don't you think that a desperate errand?' said the King, 'seeing theyare so dangerous, and no one has ever yet ventured to go against them?'Red answered that he had only one life to lose, and it would beinteresting to see how brave he was. besides, the King would have goodreason to ennoble him if he overcame them. The King at last allowedhimself, though rather unwillingly, to be won over by Red's persistency,and one day asked Ring to go and kill the oxen that were in the wood forhim, and bring their horns and hides to him in the evening. Not knowinghow dangerous the oxen were, Ring was quite ready, and went off at once,to the great delight of Red, who was now sure of his death.As soon as Ring came in sight of the oxen they came bellowing to meethim. one of them was tremendously big, the other rather less. Ring grewterribly afraid.'How do you like them?' asked Snati.'Not well at all,' said the Prince.'We can do nothing else,' said Snati, 'than attack them, if it is to gowell. you will go against the little one, and I shall take the other.'With this Snati leapt at the big one, and was not long in bringinghim down. Meanwhile the Prince went against the other with fear andtrembling, and by the time Snati came to help him the ox had nearly gothim under, but Snati was not slow in helping his master to kill it.Each of them then began to flay their own ox, but Ring was only halfthrough by the time Snati had finished his. In the evening, after theyhad finished this task, the Prince thought himself unfit to carry allthe horns and both the hides, so Snati told him to lay them all on hisback until they got to the Palace gate.The Prince agreed, and laid everything on the Dog except the skin of thesmaller ox, which he staggered along with himself. At the Palace gate heleft everything lying, went before the King, and asked him to come thatlength with him, and there handed over to him the hides and horns of theoxen. The King was greatly surprised at his valour, and said he knew noone like him, and thanked him heartily for what he had done.After this the King set Ring next to himself, and all esteemed himhighly, and held him to be a great hero. nor could Red any longer sayanything against him, though he grew still more determined to destroyhim. One day a good idea came into his head. He came to the King andsaid he had something to say to him.'What is that?' said the King.Red said that he had just remembered the gold cloak, gold chess board,and bright gold piece that the King had lost about a year before.'Don't remind me of them!' said the King.Red, however, went on to say that, since Ring was such a mighty man thathe could do everything, it had occurred to him to advise the King toask him to search for these treasures, and come back with them beforeChristmas. in return the King should promise him his daughter.The King replied that he thought it altogether unbecoming to proposesuch a thing to Ring, seeing that he could not tell him where the thingswere. but Red pretended not to hear the King's excuses, and went ontalking about it until the King gave in to him. One day, a month or sobefore Christmas, the King spoke to Ring, saying that he wished to ask agreat favour of him.'What is that?' said Ring.'It is this,' said the King: 'that you find for me my gold cloak, mygold chess board, and my bright gold piece, that were stolen from meabout a year ago. If you can bring them to me before Christmas I willgive you my daughter in marriage.''Where am I to look for them, then?' said Ring.'That you must find out for yourself,' said the King: 'I don't know.'Ring now left the King, and was very silent, for he saw he was in agreat difficulty: but, on the other hand, he thought it was excellentto have such a chance of winning the King's daughter. Snati noticed thathis master was at a loss, and said to him that he should not disregardwhat the King had asked him to do. but he would have to act upon hisadvice, otherwise he would get into great difficulties. The Princeassented to this, and began to prepare for the journey.After he had taken leave of the King, and was setting out on thesearch, Snati said to him, 'Now you must first of all go about theneighbourhood, and gather as much salt as ever you can.' The Prince didso, and gathered so much salt that he could hardly carry it. but Snatisaid, 'Throw it on my back,' which he accordingly did, and the Dog thenran on before the Prince, until they came to the foot of a steep cliff.'We must go up here,' said Snati.'I don't think that will be child's play,' said the Prince.'Hold fast by my tail,' said Snati. and in this way he pulled Ring up onthe lowest shelf of the rock. The Prince began to get giddy, but up wentSnati on to the second shelf. Ring was nearly swooning by this time, butSnati made a third effort and reached the top of the cliff, where thePrince fell down in a faint. After a little, however, he recoveredagain, and they went a short distance along a level plain, until theycame to a cave. This was on Christmas Eve. They went up above the cave,and found a window in it, through which they looked, and saw fourtrolls lying asleep beside the fire, over which a large porridge pot washanging.'Now you must empty all the salt into the porridge pot,' said Snati.Ring did so, and soon the trolls wakened up. The old hag, who was themost frightful of them all, went first to taste the porridge.'How comes this?' she said. 'the porridge is salt! I got the milk bywitchcraft yesterday out of four kingdoms, and now it is salt!'All the others then came to taste the porridge, and thought it nice, butafter they had finished it the old hag grew so thirsty that she couldstand it no longer, and asked her daughter to go out and bring her somewater from the river that ran near by.'I won't go,' said she, 'unless you lend me your bright gold piece.''Though I should die you shan't have that,' said the hag.'Die, then,' said the girl.'Well, then, take it, you brat,' said the old hag, 'and be off with you,and make haste with the water.'The girl took the gold and ran out with it, and it was so bright that itshone all over the plain. As soon as she came to the river she lay downto take a drink of the water, but meanwhile the two of them had got downoff the roof and thrust her, head first, into the river.The old hag began now to long for the water, and said that the girlwould be running about with the gold piece all over the plain, so sheasked her son to go and get her a drop of water.'I won't go,' said he, 'unless I get the gold cloak.''Though I should die you shan't have that,' said the hag.'Die, then,' said the son.'Well, then, take it,' said the old hag, 'and be off with you, but youmust make haste with the water.'He put on the cloak, and when he came outside it shone so bright that hecould see to go with it. On reaching the river he went to take a drinklike his sister, but at that moment Ring and Snati sprang upon him, tookthe cloak from him, and threw him into the river.The old hag could stand the thirst no longer, and asked her husbandto go for a drink for her. the brats, she said, were of course runningabout and playing themselves, just as she had expected they would,little wretches that they were.'I won't go,' said the old troll, 'unless you lend me the goldchess board.''Though I should die you shan't have that,' said the hag.'I think you may just as well do that,' said he, 'since you won't grantme such a little favour.''Take it, then, you utter disgrace!' said the old hag, 'since you arejust like these two brats.'The old troll now went out with the gold chess board, and down to theriver, and was about to take a drink, when Ring and Snati came upon him,took the chess board from him, and threw him into the river. Before theyhad got back again, however, and up on top of the cave, they sawthe poor old fellow's ghost come marching up from the river. Snatiimmediately sprang upon him, and Ring assisted in the attack, and aftera hard struggle they mastered him a second time. When they got backagain to the window they saw that the old hag was moving towards thedoor.'Now we must go in at once,' said Snati, 'and try to master her there,for if she once gets out we shall have no chance with her. She is theworst witch that ever lived, and no iron can cut her. One of us mustpour boiling porridge out of the pot on her, and the other punch herwith red hot iron.'In they went then, and no sooner did the hag see them than she said,'So you have come, Prince Ring. you must have seen to my husband andchildren.'Snati saw that she was about to attack them, and sprang at her with ared hot iron from the fire, while Ring kept pouring boiling porridge onher without stopping, and in this way they at last got her killed. Thenthey burned the old troll and her to ashes, and explored the cave, wherethey found plenty of gold and treasures. The most valuable of these theycarried with them as far as the cliff, and left them there. Then theyhastened home to the King with his three treasures, where they arrivedlate on Christmas night, and Ring handed them over to him.The King was beside himself with joy, and was astonished at how clevera man Ring was in all kinds of feats, so that he esteemed him still morehighly than before, and betrothed his daughter to him. and the feastfor this was to last all through Christmastide. Ring thanked the Kingcourteously for this and all his other kindnesses, and as soon as he hadfinished eating and drinking in the hall went off to sleep in his ownroom. Snati, however, asked permission to sleep in the Prince's bed forthat night, while the Prince should sleep where the Dog usually lay.Ring said he was welcome to do so, and that he deserved more from himthan that came to. So Snati went up into the Prince's bed, but after atime he came back, and told Ring he could go there himself now, but totake care not to meddle with anything that was in the bed.Now the story comes back to Red, who came into the hall and showed theKing his right arm wanting the hand, and said that now he could see whatkind of a man his intended son in law was, for he had done this to himwithout any cause whatever. The King became very angry, and said hewould soon find out the truth about it, and if Ring had cut off his handwithout good cause he should be hanged. but if it was otherwise, thenRed should die. So the King sent for Ring and asked him for what reasonhe had done this. Snati, however, had just told Ring what had happenedduring the night, and in reply he asked the King to go with him and hewould show him something. The King went with him to his sleeping room,and saw lying on the bed a man's hand holding a sword.'This hand,' said Ring, 'came over the partition during the night, andwas about to run me through in my bed, if I had not defended myself.'The King answered that in that case he could not blame him forprotecting his own life, and that Red was well worthy of death. So Redwas hanged, and Ring married the King's daughter.The first night that they went to bed together Snati asked Ring to allowhim to lie at their feet, and this Ring allowed him to do. During thenight he heard a howling and outcry beside them, struck a light in ahurry and saw an ugly dog's skin lying near him, and a beautiful Princein the bed. Ring instantly took the skin and burned it, and then shookthe Prince, who was lying unconscious, until he woke up. The bridegroomthen asked his name. he replied that he was called Ring, and was aKing's son. In his youth he had lost his mother, and in her place hisfather had married a witch, who had laid a spell on him that he shouldturn into a dog, and never be released from the spell unless a Princeof the same name as himself allowed him to sleep at his feet the firstnight after his marriage. He added further, 'As soon as she knew thatyou were my namesake she tried to get you destroyed, so that youmight not free me from the spell. She was the hind that you and yourcompanions chased. she was the woman that you found in the clearing withthe barrel, and the old hag that we just now killed in the cave.'After the feasting was over the two namesakes, along with other men,went to the cliff and brought all the treasure home to the Palace. Thenthey went to the island and removed all that was valuable from it.Ring gave to his namesake, whom he had freed from the spell, his sisterIngiborg and his father's kingdom to look after, but he himself stayedwith his father in law the King, and had half the kingdom while he livedand the whole of it after his death.