Bibliotheque des Fees et aes GeniesOnce upon a time there lived a young king whose name was Souci, and hehad been brought up, ever since he was a baby, by the fairy Inconstancy.Now the fairy Girouette had a kind heart, but she was a very tryingperson to live with, for she never knew her own mind for two minutestogether, and as she was the sole ruler at Court till the prince grewup everything was always at sixes and sevens. At first she determined tofollow the old custom of keeping the young king ignorant of the dutieshe would have to perform some day. then, quite suddenly, she resignedthe reins of government into his hands. but, unluckily, it was too lateto train him properly for the post. However, the fairy did not think ofthat, but, carried away by her new ideas, she hastily formed a Council,and named as Prime Minister the excellent 'Ditto,' so called because hehad never been known to contradict anybody.Young Prince Souci had a handsome face, and at the bottom a good deal ofcommon sense. but he had never been taught good manners, and was shy andawkward. and had, besides, never learned how to use his brains.Under these circumstances it is not surprising that the Council did notget through much work. Indeed, the affairs of the country fell into suchdisorder that at last the people broke out into open rebellion, and itwas only the courage of the king, who continued to play the flute whileswords and spears were flashing before the palace gate, that preventedcivil war from being declared.No sooner was the revolt put down than the Council turned theirattention to the question of the young king's marriage. Variousprincesses were proposed to him, and the fairy, who was anxious toget the affair over before she left the Court for ever, gave it as heropinion that the Princess Diaphana would make the most suitable wife.Accordingly envoys were sent to bring back an exact report of theprincess's looks and ways, and they returned saying that she was talland well made, but so very light that the equerries who accompanied herin her walks had to be always watching her, lest she should suddenly beblown away. This had happened so often that her subjects lived in terrorof losing her altogether, and tried everything they could think ofto keep her to the ground. They even suggested that she should carryweights in her pockets, or have them tied to her ankles. but this ideawas given up, as the princess found it so uncomfortable. At length itwas decided that she was never to go out in a wind, and in order to makematters surer still the equerries each held the end of a string whichwas fastened to her waist.The Council talked over this report for some days, and then the kingmade up his mind that he would judge for himself, and pretend to behis own ambassador. This plan was by no means new, but it had oftensucceeded, and, anyhow, they could think of nothing better.Such a splendid embassy had never before been seen in any country.The kingdom was left in the charge of the Prime Minister, who answered'Ditto' to everything. but the choice was better than it seemed, for theworthy man was much beloved by the people, as he agreed with all theysaid, and they left him feeling very pleased with themselves and theirown wisdom.When the king arrived at Diaphana's Court he found a magnificentreception awaiting him, for, though they pretended not to know who hewas, secrets like this are never hidden. Now the young king had a greatdislike to long ceremonies, so he proposed that his second interviewwith the princess should take place in the garden. The princess madesome difficulties, but, as the weather was lovely and very still, sheat last consented to the king's wishes. But no sooner had they finishedtheir first bows and curtseys than a slight breeze sprung up, and beganto sway the princess, whose equerries had retired out of respect. Theking went forward to steady her, but the wind that he caused only droveher further away from him. He rushed after her exclaiming, 'O princess!are you really running away from me?''Good gracious, no!' she replied. 'Run a little quicker and you will beable to stop me, and I shall be for ever grateful. That is what comesof talking in a garden,' she added in disgust. 'as if one wasn't muchbetter in a room that was tightly closed all round.'The king ran as fast as he could, but the wind ran faster still, and ina moment the princess was whirled to the bottom of the garden, which wasbounded by a ditch. She cleared it like a bird, and the king, who wasobliged to stop short at the edge, saw the lovely Diaphana flying overthe plain, sometimes driven to the right, sometimes to the left, till atlast she vanished out of sight.By this time the whole court were running over the plain, some on footand some on horseback, all hurrying to the help of their princess, whoreally was in some danger, for the wind was rising to the force ofa gale. The king looked on for a little, and then returned with hisattendants to the palace, reflecting all the while on the extremelightness of his proposed bride and the absurdity of having a wife thatrose in the air better than any kite. He thought on the whole that itwould be wiser not to wait longer, but to depart at once, and he startedon horseback at the very moment when the princess had been found byher followers, wet to the skin, and blown against a rick. Souci met thecarriage which was bringing her home, and stopped to congratulate her onher escape, and to advise her to put on dry clothes. Then he continuedhis journey.It took a good while for the king to get home again, and he was rathercross at having had so much trouble for nothing. Besides which, hiscourtiers made fun at his adventure, and he did not like being laughedat, though of course they did not dare to do it before his face. Andthe end of it was that very soon he started on his travels again,only allowing one equerry to accompany him, and even this attendant hemanaged to lose the moment he had left his own kingdom behind him.Now it was the custom in those days for princes and princesses to bebrought up by fairies, who loved them as their own children, and did notmind what inconvenience they put other people to for their sakes, forall the world as if they had been real mothers. The fairy Aveline, wholived in a country that touched at one point the kingdom of King Souci,had under her care the lovely Princess Minon Minette, and had made upher mind to marry her to the young king, who, in spite of his awkwardmanners, which could be improved, was really very much nicer than mostof the young men she was likely to meet.So Aveline made her preparations accordingly, and began by arrangingthat the equerry should lose himself in the forest, after which she tookaway the king's sword and his horse while he lay asleep under a tree.Her reason for this was that she felt persuaded that, finding himselfsuddenly alone and robbed of everything, the king would hide his realbirth, and would have to fall back on his powers of pleasing, like othermen, which would be much better for him.When the king awoke and found that the tree to which he had tied hishorse had its lowest branch broken, and that nothing living was insight, he was much dismayed, and sought high and low for his losttreasure, but all in vain. After a time he began to get hungry, so hedecided that he had better try to find his way out of the forest, andperhaps he might have a chance of getting something to eat. He had onlygone a few steps when he met Aveline, who had taken the shape of an oldwoman with a heavy bundle of faggots on her back. She staggered alongthe path and almost fell at his feet, and Souci, afraid that she mighthave hurt herself, picked her up and set her on her feet again beforepassing on his way. But he was not to be let off so easy.'What about my bundle?' cried the old woman. 'Where is your politeness?Really, you seem to have been very nicely brought up! What have theytaught you?''Taught me? Nothing,' replied he.'I can well believe it!' she said. 'You don't know even how to pick upa bundle. Oh, you can come near. I am cleverer than you, and know how topick up a bundle very well.'The king blushed at her words, which he felt had a great deal of truthin them, and took up the bundle meekly.Aveline, delighted at the success of her first experiment, hobbled alongafter him, chattering all the while, as old women do.'I wish,' she said, 'that all kings had done as much once in theirlives. Then they would know what a lot of trouble it takes to get woodfor their fires.'Souci felt this to be true, and was sorry for the old woman.'Where are we going to?' asked he.'To the castle of the White Demon. and if you are in want of work I willfind you something to do.''But I can't do anything,' he said, 'except carry a bundle, and I shan'tearn much by that.''Oh, you are learning,' replied the old woman, 'and it isn't bad for afirst lesson.' But the king was paying very little attention to her, forhe was rather cross and very tired. Indeed, he felt that he really couldnot carry the bundle any further, and was about to lay it down whenup came a young maiden more beautiful than the day, and covered withprecious stones. She ran to them, exclaiming to the old woman,'Oh, you poor thing! I was just coming after you to see if I could helpyou.''Here is a young man,' replied the old woman, 'who will be quite readyto give you up the bundle. You see he does not look as if he enjoyedcarrying it.''Will you let me take it, sir?' she asked.But the king felt ashamed of himself, and held on to it tightly, whilethe presence of the princess put him in a better temper.So they all travelled together till they arrived at a veryordinary looking house, which Aveline pointed out as the castle of theWhite Demon, and told the king that he might put down his bundle inthe courtyard. The young man was terribly afraid of being recognised bysomeone in this strange position, and would have turned on his heel andgone away had it not been for the thought of Minon Minette. Still, hefelt very awkward and lonely, for both the princess and the old womanhad entered the castle without taking the slightest notice of the youngman, who remained where he was for some time, not quite knowing whathe had better do. At length a servant arrived and led him up into abeautiful room filled with people, who were either playing on musicalinstruments or talking in a lively manner, which astonished the king,who stood silently listening, and not at all pleased at the want ofattention paid him.Matters went on this way for some time. Every day the king fell more andmore in love with Minon Minette, and every day the princess seemed moreand more taken up with other people. At last, in despair, the princesought out the old woman, to try to get some advice from her as tohis conduct, or, anyway, to have the pleasure of talking aboutMinon Minette.He found her spinning in an underground chamber, but quite ready to tellhim all he wanted to know. In answer to his questions he learned thatin order to win the hand of the princess it was not enough to be born aprince, for she would marry nobody who had not proved himself faithful,and had, besides, all those talents and accomplishments which help tomake people happy.For a moment Souci was very much cast down on hearing this, but thenhe plucked up. 'Tell me what I must do in order to win the heart of theprincess, and no matter how hard it is I will do it. And show me how Ican repay you for your kindness, and you shall have anything I can giveyou. Shall I bring in your bundle of faggots every day?''It is enough that you should have made the offer,' replied the oldwoman. and she added, holding out a skein of thread, 'Take this. oneday you will be thankful for it, and when it becomes useless yourdifficulties will be past.''Is it the skein of my life?' he asked.'It is the skein of your love's ill luck,' she said.And he took it and went away.Now the fairy Girouette, who had brought up Souci, had an old friendcalled Grimace, the protectress of Prince Fluet. Grimace often talkedover the young prince's affairs with Girouette, and, when she decidedthat he was old enough to govern his own kingdom, consulted Girouetteas to a suitable wife. Girouette, who never stopped to think or to makeinquiries, drew such a delightful picture of Minon Minette thatGrimace determined to spare no pains to bring about the marriage, andaccordingly Fluet was presented at court. But though the young man waspleasant and handsome, the princess thought him rather womanish in someways, and displayed her opinion so openly as to draw upon herself andAveline the anger of the fairy, who declared that Minon Minette shouldnever know happiness till she had found a bridge without an arch and abird without feathers. So saying, she also went away.Before the king set out afresh on his travels Aveline had restored tohim his horse and his sword, and though these were but small consolationfor the absence of the princess, they were better than nothing, for hefelt that somehow they might be the means of leading him back to her.After crossing several deserts the king arrived at length in a countrythat seemed inhabited, but the instant he stepped over the border hewas seized and flung into chains, and dragged at once to the capital.He asked his guards why he was treated like this, but the only answer hegot was that he was in the territory of the Iron King, for in those dayscountries had no names of their own, but were called after their rulers.The young man was led into the presence of the Iron King, who was seatedon a black throne in a hall also hung with black, as a token of mourningfor all the relations whom he had put to death.'What are you doing in my country?' he cried fiercely.'I came here by accident,' replied Souci, 'and if I ever escapefrom your clutches I will take warning by you and treat my subjectsdifferently.''Do you dare to insult me in my own court?' cried the king. 'Away withhim to Little Ease!'Now Little Ease was an iron cage hung by four thick chains in the middleof a great vaulted hall, and the prisoner inside could neither sit,nor stand, nor lie. and, besides that, he was made to suffer by turnsunbearable heat and cold, while a hundred heavy bolts kept everythingsafe. Girouette, whose business it was to see after Souci, had forgottenhis existence in the excitement of some new idea, and he would not havebeen alive long to trouble anybody if Aveline had not come to the rescueand whispered in his ear, 'And the skein of thread?' He took it upobediently, though he did not see how it would help him but he tied itround one of the iron bars of his cage, which seemed the only thing hecould do, and gave a pull. To his surprise the bar gave way at once, andhe found he could break it into a thousand pieces. After this it didnot take him long to get out of his cage, or to treat the closely barredwindows of the hall in the same manner. But even after he had done allthis freedom appeared as far from him as ever, for between him and theopen country was a high wall, and so smooth that not even a monkey couldclimb it. Then Souci's heart died within him. He saw nothing for it butto submit to some horrible death, but he determined that the Iron Kingshould not profit more than he could help, and flung his precious threadinto the air, saying, as he did so, 'O fairy, my misfortunes are greaterthan your power. I am grateful for your goodwill, but take back yourgift!' The fairy had pity on his youth and want of faith, and took carethat one end of the thread remained in his hand. He suddenly felt ajerk, and saw that the thread must have caught on something, and thisthought filled him with the daring that is born of despair. 'Better,' hesaid to himself, 'trust to a thread than to the mercies of a king.' and,gliding down, he found himself safe on the other side of the wall. Thenhe rolled up the thread and put it carefully into his pocket, breathingsilent thanks to the fairy.Now Minon Minette had been kept informed by Aveline of the prince'sadventures, and when she heard of the way in which he had been treatedby the Iron King she became furious, and began to prepare for war. Shemade her plans with all the secrecy she could, but when great armies arecollected people are apt to suspect a storm is brewing, and of course itis very difficult to keep anything hidden from fairy godmothers. Anyway,Grimace soon heard of it, and as she had never forgiven Minon Minettefor refusing Prince Fluet, she felt that here was her chance of revenge.Up to this time Aveline had been able to put a stop to many of Grimace'sspiteful tricks, and to keep guard over Minon Minette, but she had nopower over anything that happened at a distance. and when the princessdeclared her intention of putting herself at the head of her army,and began to train herself to bear fatigue by hunting daily, the fairyentreated her to be careful never to cross the borders of her dominionswithout Aveline to protect her. The princess at once gave her promise,and all went well for some days. Unluckily one morning, as Minon Minettewas cantering slowly on her beautiful white horse, thinking a great dealabout Souci and not at all of the boundaries of her kingdom (of which,indeed, she was very ignorant), she suddenly found herself in front ofa house made entirely of dead leaves, which somehow brought all sorts ofunpleasant things into her head. She remembered Aveline's warning, andtried to turn her horse, but it stood as still as if it had been marble.Then the princess felt that she was slowly, and against her will, beingdragged to the ground. She shrieked, and clung tightly to the saddle,but it was all in vain. she longed to fly, but something outside herselfproved too strong for her, and she was forced to take the path that ledto the House of Dead Leaves.Scarcely had her feet touched the threshold than Grimace appeared. 'Sohere you are at last, Minon Minette! I have been watching for you a longtime, and my trap was ready for you from the beginning. Come here, mydarling! I will teach you to make war on my friends! Things won't turnout exactly as you fancied. What you have got to do now is to go onyour knees to the king and crave his pardon, and before he consents toa peace you will have to implore him to grant you the favour of becominghis wife. Meanwhile you will have to be my servant.'From that day the poor princess was put to the hardest and dirtiestwork, and each morning something more disagreeable seemed to await her.Besides which, she had no food but a little black bread, and no bed buta little straw. Out of pure spite she was sent in the heat of the day tolook after the geese, and would most likely have got a sunstroke if shehad not happened to pick up in the fields a large fan, with which shesheltered her face. To be sure, a fan seems rather an odd possession fora goose girl, but the princess did not think of that, and she forgotall her troubles when, on opening the fan to use it as a parasol, outtumbled a letter from her lover. Then she felt sure that the fairy hadnot forgotten her, and took heart.When Grimace saw that Minon Minette still managed to look as white assnow, instead of being burnt as brown as a berry, she wondered whatcould have happened, and began to watch her closely. The following day,when the sun was at its highest and hottest, she noticed her draw a fanfrom the folds of her dress and hold it before her eyes. The fairy, in arage, tried to snatch it from her, but the princess would not let it go.'Give me that fan at once!' cried Grimace.'Never while I live!' answered the princess, and, not knowing whereit would be safest, placed it under her feet. In an instant she feltherself rising from the ground, with the fan always beneath her, andwhile Grimace was too much blinded by her fury to notice what was goingon the princess was quickly soaring out of her reach.All this time Souci had been wandering through the world with hisprecious thread carefully fastened round him, seeking every possibleand impossible place where his beloved princess might chance to be. Butthough he sometimes found traces of her, or even messages scratched on arock, or cut in the bark of a tree, she herself was nowhere to be found.'If she is not on the earth,' said Souci to himself, 'perhaps she ishiding somewhere in the air. It is there that I shall find her.' So, bythe help of his thread, he tried to mount upwards, but he could go sucha little way, and hurt himself dreadfully when he tumbled back to earthagain. Still he did not give up, and after many days of efforts andtumbles he found to his great joy that he could go a little higher andstay up a little longer than he had done at first, and by and bye hewas able to live in the air altogether. But alas! the world of the airseemed as empty of her as the world below, and Souci was beginning todespair, and to think that he must go and search the world that lay inthe sea. He was floating sadly along, not paying any heed to where hewas going, when he saw in the distance a beautiful, bright sort of birdcoming towards him. His heart beat fast he did not know why and asthey both drew near the voice of the princess exclaimed, 'Behold thebird without feathers and the bridge without an arch!'So their first meeting took place in the air, but it was none the lesshappy for that. and the fan grew big enough to hold the king as well asAveline, who had hastened to give them some good advice. She guided thefan above the spot where the two armies lay encamped before each otherready to give battle. The fight was long and bloody, but in the end theIron King was obliged to give way and surrender to the princess, whoset him to keep King Souci's sheep, first making him swear a solemn oaththat he would treat them kindly.Then the marriage took place, in the presence of Girouette, whomthey had the greatest trouble to find, and who was much astonished todiscover how much business had been got through in her absence.