Once there lived a great Raja, whose name was Salabhan, and he had aQueen, by name Lona, who, though she wept and prayed at many a shrine,had never a child to gladden her eyes. After a long time, however, ason was promised to her.Queen Lona returned to the palace, and when the time for the birth ofthe promised son drew nigh, she inquired of three Jogis who camebegging to her gate, what the child's fate would be, and the youngestof them answered and said, "Oh, Queen! the child will be a boy, and hewill live to be a great man. But for twelve years you must not lookupon his face, for if either you or his father see it before thetwelve years are past, you will surely die! This is what you must do.as soon as the child is born you must send him away to a cellarunderneath the ground, and never let him see the light of day fortwelve years. After they are over, he may come forth, bathe in theriver, put on new clothes, and visit you. His name shall be RajaRasalu, and he shall be known far and wide."So, when a fair young Prince was in due time born into the world, hisparents hid him away in an underground palace, with nurses, andservants, and everything else a King's son might desire. And with himthey sent a young colt, born the same day, and sword, spear, andshield, against the day when Raja Rasalu should go forth into theworld.So there the child lived, playing with his colt, and talking to hisparrot, while the nurses taught him all things needful for a King'sson to know.Young Rasalu lived on, far from the light of day, for eleven longyears, growing tall and strong, yet contented to remain playing withhis colt, and talking to his parrot. but when the twelfth year began,the lad's heart leapt up with desire for change, and he loved tolisten to the sounds of life which came to him in his palace prisonfrom the outside world."I must go and see where the voices come from!" he said. and when hisnurses told him he must not go for one year more, he only laughedaloud, saying, "Nay! I stay no longer here for any man!"Then he saddled his Arab horse Bhaunr, put on his shining armour, androde forth into the world. but mindful of what his nurses had oft toldhim, when he came to the river, he dismounted, and, going into thewater, washed himself and his clothes.Then, clean of raiment, fair of face, and brave of heart, he rode onhis way until he reached his father's city. There he sat down to restawhile by a well, where the women were drawing water in earthenpitchers. Now, as they passed him, their full pitchers poised upontheir heads, the gay young Prince flung stones at the earthenvessels, and broke them all. Then the women, drenched with water,went weeping and wailing to the palace, complaining to the King that amighty young Prince in shining armour, with a parrot on his wrist anda gallant steed beside him, sat by the well, and broke their pitchers.Now, as soon as Rajah Salabhan heard this, he guessed at once that itwas Prince Rasalu come forth before the time, and, mindful of theJogis' words that he would die if he looked on his son's face beforetwelve years were past, he did not dare to send his guards to seizethe offender and bring him to be judged. So he bade the women becomforted, and take pitchers of iron and brass, giving new ones fromhis treasury to those who did not possess any of their own.But when Prince Rasalu saw the women returning to the well withpitchers of iron and brass, he laughed to himself, and drew his mightybow till the sharp pointed arrows pierced the metal vessels as thoughthey had been clay.Yet still the King did not send for him, so he mounted his steed andset off in the pride of his youth and strength to the palace. Hestrode into the audience hall, where his father sat trembling, andsaluted him with all reverence. but Raja Salabhan, in fear of hislife, turned his back hastily and said never a word in reply.Then Prince Rasalu called scornfully to him across the hall:"I came to greet thee, King, and not to harm thee!What have I done that thou shouldst turn away?Sceptre and empire have no power to charm me I go to seek a worthier prize than they!"Then he strode away, full of bitterness and anger. but, as he passedunder the palace windows, he heard his mother weeping, and the soundsoftened his heart, so that his wrath died down, and a greatloneliness fell upon him, because he was spurned by both father andmother. So he cried sorrowfully,"Oh heart crown'd with grief, hast thou noughtBut tears for thy son?Art mother of mine? Give one thoughtTo my life just begun!"And Queen Lona answered through her tears:"Yea! mother am I, though I weep,So hold this word sure, Go, reign king of all men, but keepThy heart good and pure!"So Raja Rasalu was comforted, and began to make ready for fortune. Hetook with him his horse Bhaunr and his parrot, both of whom had livedwith him since he was born.So they made a goodly company, and Queen Lona, when she saw themgoing, watched them from her window till she saw nothing but a cloudof dust on the horizon. then she bowed her head on her hands and wept,saying:"Oh! son who ne'er gladdened mine eyes,Let the cloud of thy going arise,Dim the sunlight and darken the day.For the mother whose son is awayIs as dust!"Rasalu had started off to play chaupur with King Sarkap. And as hejourneyed there came a fierce storm of thunder and lightning, so thathe sought shelter, and found none save an old graveyard, where aheadless corpse lay upon the ground. So lonesome was it that even thecorpse seemed company, and Rasalu, sitting down beside it, said:"There is no one here, nor far nor near,Save this breathless corpse so cold and grim.Would God he might come to life again,'Twould be less lonely to talk to him."And immediately the headless corpse arose and sat beside Raja Rasalu.And he, nothing astonished, said to it:"The storm beats fierce and loud,The clouds rise thick in the west.What ails thy grave and shroud,Oh corpse! that thou canst not rest?"Then the headless corpse replied:"On earth I was even as thou,My turban awry like a king,My head with the highest, I trow,Having my fun and my fling,Fighting my foes like a brave,Living my life with a swing.And, now I am dead,Sins, heavy as lead,Will give me no rest in my grave!"So the night passed on, dark and dreary, while Rasalu sat in thegraveyard and talked to the headless corpse. Now when morning brokeand Rasalu said he must continue his journey, the headless corpseasked him whither he was going, and when he said "to play chaupur withKing Sarkap," the corpse begged him to give up the idea saying, "I amKing Sarkap's brother, and I know his ways. Every day, beforebreakfast, he cuts off the heads of two or three men, just to amusehimself. One day no one else was at hand, so he cut off mine, and hewill surely cut off yours on some pretence or another. However, if youare determined to go and play chaupur with him, take some of the bonesfrom this graveyard, and make your dice out of them, and then theenchanted dice with which my brother plays will lose their virtue.Otherwise he will always win."So Rasalu took some of the bones lying about, and fashioned them intodice, and these he put into his pocket. Then, bidding adieu to theheadless corpse, he went on his way to play chaupur with the King.Now, as Raja Rasalu, tender hearted and strong, journeyed along toplay chaupur with the King, he came to a burning forest, and a voicerose from the fire saying, "Oh, traveller! for God's sake save me fromthe fire!"Then the Prince turned towards the burning forest, and, lo! the voicewas the voice of a tiny cricket. Nevertheless, Rasalu, tender heartedand strong, snatched it from the fire and set it at liberty. Then thelittle creature, full of gratitude, pulled out one of its feelers, andgiving it to its preserver, said, "Keep this, and should you ever bein trouble, put it into the fire, and instantly I will come to youraid."The Prince smiled, saying, "What help could _you_ give _me_?"Nevertheless, he kept the hair and went on his way.Now, when he reached the city of King Sarkap, seventy maidens,daughters of the King, came out to meet him, seventy fair maidens,merry and careless, full of smiles and laughter. but one, the youngestof them all, when she saw the gallant young Prince riding on BhaunrIraqi, going gaily to his doom, was filled with pity, and called tohim saying:"Fair Prince, on the charger so gray,Turn thee back! turn thee back!Or lower thy lance for the fray.Thy head will be forfeit to day!Dost love life? then, stranger, I pray,Turn thee back! turn thee back!"But he, smiling at the maiden, answered lightly:"Fair maiden, I come from afar,Sworn conqueror in love and in war!King Sarkap my coming will rue,His head in four pieces I'll hew.Then forth as a bridegroom I'll ride,With you, little maid, as my bride!"Now when Rasalu replied so gallantly, the maiden looked in his face,and seeing how fair he was, and how brave and strong, she straightwayfell in love with him, and would gladly have followed him through theworld.But the other sixty nine maidens, being jealous, laughed scornfully ather, saying, "Not so fast, oh gallant warrior! If you would marry oursister you must first do our bidding, for you will be our youngerbrother.""Fair sisters!" quoth Rasalu gaily, "give me my task and I willperform it."So the sixty nine maidens mixed a hundred weight of millet seed with ahundred weight of sand, and giving it to Rasalu, bade him separate theseed from the sand.Then he bethought him of the cricket, and drawing the feeler from hispocket, thrust it into the fire. And immediately there was a whirringnoise in the air, and a great flight of crickets alighted beside him,and amongst them the cricket whose life he had saved.Then Rasalu said, "Separate the millet seed from the sand.""Is that all?" quoth the cricket. "had I known how small a job youwanted me to do, I would not have assembled so many of my brethren."With that the flight of crickets set to work, and in one night theyseparated the seed from the sand.Now when the sixty nine fair maidens, daughters of the king saw thatRasalu had performed his task, they set him another, bidding him swingthem all, one by one, in their swings, until they were tired.Whereupon he laughed, saying, "There are seventy of you, counting mylittle bride yonder, and I am not going to spend my life swinginggirls! Why, by the time I have given each of you a swing, the firstwill be wanting another! No! if you want a swing, get in, all seventyof you, into one swing, and then I'll see what can be done."So the seventy maidens climbed into one swing, and Raja Rasalu,standing in his shining armour, fastened the ropes to his mighty bow,and drew it up to its fullest bent. Then he let go, and like an arrowthe swing shot into the air, with its burden of seventy fair maidens,merry and careless, full of smiles and laughter.But as it swung back again, Rasalu, standing there in his shiningarmour, drew his sharp sword and severed the ropes. Then the seventyfair maidens fell to the ground headlong. and some were bruised andsome broken, but the only one who escaped unhurt was the maiden wholoved Rasalu, for she fell out last, on the top of the others, and socame to no harm.After this, Rasalu strode on fifteen paces, till he came to theseventy drums, that every one who came to play chaupur with the Kinghad to beat in turn. and he beat them so loudly that he broke themall. Then he came to the seventy gongs, all in a row, and he hammeredthem so hard that they cracked to pieces.Seeing this, the youngest Princess, who was the only one who couldrun, fled to her father the King in a great fright, saying:"A mighty Prince, Sarkap! making havoc, rides along,He swung us, seventy maidens fair, and threw us out headlong.He broke the drums you placed there and the gongs too in his pride,Sure, he will kill thee, father mine, and take me for his bride!"But King Sarkap replied scornfully:"Silly maiden, thy words make a lotOf a very small matter.For fear of my valour, I wot,His armour will clatter.As soon as I've eaten my breadI'll go forth and cut off his head!"Notwithstanding these brave and boastful words, he was in reality verymuch afraid, having heard of Rasalu's renown. And learning that he wasstopping at the house of an old woman in the city, till the hour forplaying chaupur arrived, Sarkap sent slaves to him with trays ofsweetmeats and fruit, as to an honoured guest. But the food waspoisoned.Now when the slaves brought the trays to Raja Rasalu, he rose uphaughtily, saying, "Go, tell your master I have nought to do with himin friendship. I am his sworn enemy, and I eat not of his salt!"So saying, he threw the sweetmeats to Raja Sarkap's dog, which hadfollowed the slave, and lo! the dog died.Then Rasalu was very wroth, and said bitterly, "Go back to Sarkap,slaves! and tell him that Rasalu deems it no act of bravery to killeven an enemy by treachery."Now, when evening came, Raja Rasalu went forth to play chaupur withKing Sarkap, and as he passed some potters' kilns he saw a catwandering about restlessly. so he asked what ailed her, that she neverstood still, and she replied, "My kittens are in an unbaked pot in thekiln yonder. It has just been set alight, and my children will bebaked alive. therefore I cannot rest!"Her words moved the heart of Raja Rasalu, and, going to the potter, heasked him to sell the kiln as it was. but the potter replied that hecould not settle a fair price till the pots were burnt, as he couldnot tell how many would come out whole. Nevertheless, after somebargaining, he consented at last to sell the kiln, and Rasalu, havingsearched all the pots, restored the kittens to their mother, and she,in gratitude for his mercy, gave him one of them, saying, "Put it inyour pocket, for it will help you when you are in difficulties." SoRaja Rasalu put the kitten in his pocket, and went to play chaupurwith the King.Now, before they sat down to play, Raja Sarkap fixed his stakes, onthe first game, his kingdom. on the second, the wealth of the wholeworld. and, on the third, his own head. So, likewise, Raja Rasalufixed his stakes, on the first game, his arms. on the second, hishorse. and, on the third, his own head.Then they began to play, and it fell to Rasalu's lot to make the firstmove. Now he, forgetful of the dead man's warning, played with thedice given him by Raja Sarkap, besides which, Sarkap let loose hisfamous rat, Dhol Raja, and it ran about the board, upsetting thechaupur pieces on the sly, so that Rasalu lost the first game, andgave up his shining armour.Then the second game began, and once more Dhol Raja, the rat, upsetthe pieces. and Rasalu, losing the game, gave up his faithful steed.Then Bhaunr, the Arab steed, who stood by, found voice, and cried tohis master,"Sea born am I, bought with much gold.Dear Prince! trust me now as of old.I'll carry you far from these wiles My flight, all unspurr'd, will be swift as a bird,For thousands and thousands of miles!Or if needs you must stay. ere the next game you play,Place hand in your pocket, I pray!"Hearing this, Raja Sarkap frowned, and bade his slaves remove Bhaunr,the Arab steed, since he gave his master advice in the game. Now, whenthe slaves came to lead the faithful steed away, Rasalu couldnot refrain from tears, thinking over the long years during whichBhaunr, the Arab steed, had been his companion. But the horse criedout again,"Weep not, dear Prince! I shall not eat my breadOf stranger hands, nor to strange stall be led.Take thy right hand, and place it as I said."These words roused some recollection in Rasalu's mind, and when, justat this moment, the kitten in his pocket began to struggle, heremembered all about the warning, and the dice made from dead men'sbones. Then his heart rose up once more, and he called boldly to RajaSarkap, "Leave my horse and arms here for the present. Time enough totake them away when you have won my head!"Now, Raja Sarkap, seeing Rasalu's confident bearing, began to beafraid, and ordered all the women of his palace to come forth in theirgayest attire and stand before Rasalu, so as to distract his attentionfrom the game. But he never even looked at them, and drawing the dicefrom his pocket, said to Sarkap, "We have played with your dice allthis time. now we will play with mine."Then the kitten went and sat at the window through which the rat DholRaja used to come, and the game began.After a while, Sarkap, seeing Raja Rasalu was winning, called to hisrat, but when Dhol Raja saw the kitten he was afraid, and would not gofurther. So Rasalu won, and took back his arms. Next he played for hishorse, and once more Raja Sarkap called for his rat. but Dhol Raja,seeing the kitten keeping watch, was afraid. So Rasalu won the secondstake, and took back Bhaunr, the Arab steed.Then Sarkap brought all his skill to bear on the third and last game,saying,"Oh moulded pieces! favour me to day!For sooth this is a man with whom I play.No paltry risk but life and death at stake.As Sarkap does, so do, for Sarkap's sake!"But Rasalu answered back,"Oh moulded pieces! favour me to day!For sooth it is a man with whom I play.No paltry risk but life and death at stake.As Heaven does, so do, for Heaven's sake!"So they began to play, whilst the women stood round in a circle, andthe kitten watched Dhol Raja from the window. Then Sarkap lost, firsthis kingdom, then the wealth of the whole world, and lastly his head.Just then, a servant came in to announce the birth of a daughter toRaja Sarkap, and he, overcome by misfortunes, said, "Kill her at once!for she has been born in an evil moment, and has brought her fatherill luck!"But Rasalu rose up in his shining armour, tender hearted and strong,saying, "Not so, oh king! She has done no evil. Give me this child towife. and if you will vow, by all you hold sacred, never again to playchaupur for another's head, I will spare yours now!"Then Sarkap vowed a solemn vow never to play for another's head. andafter that he took a fresh mango branch, and the new born babe, andplacing them on a golden dish gave them to Rasalu.Now, as he left the palace, carrying with him the new born babe andthe mango branch, he met a band of prisoners, and they called out tohim,"A royal hawk art thou, oh King! the restBut timid wild fowl. Grant us our request, Unloose these chains, and live for ever blest!"And Raja Rasalu hearkened to them, and bade King Sarkap set them atliberty.Then he went to the Murti Hills, and placed the new born babe,Kokilan, in an underground palace, and planted the mango branch at thedoor, saying, "In twelve years the mango tree will blossom. then willI return and marry Kokilan."And after twelve years, the mango tree began to flower, and RajaRasalu married the Princess Kokilan, whom he won from Sarkap when heplayed chaupur with the King.