Once a bonga haunted the house of a certain man and became such anuisance that the man had him exorcised and safely pegged down to theground. and they fenced in the place where the bonga lay withthorns and put a large stone on the top of him. Just at the place was aclump of "Kite's claws" bushes and one day when the berries on the busheswere ripe, a certain cowherd named Ramai went to pick them and when hecame round to the stone which covered the bonga he stood on it topick the fruit, and the bonga called out to him to get off thestone. Ramai looked about and seeing no one said "Who is that speaking?"and the voice said "I am buried under the stone. if you will take it offme I will give you whatever boon you ask."Ramai said that he was afraid that the bonga would eat him but thebonga swore to do him no harm, so he lifted up the stone and thebonga came out and thanking Ramai told him to ask a boon.Ramai asked for the power to see bongas and to understand thelanguage of ants. "I will give you the power," said the bonga , "butyou must tell no one about it, not even your wife. if you do you will losethe power and in that case you must not blame me,"Then the bonga blew into his ear and he heard the speech of ants.and the bonga scratched the film of his eye balls with a thorn andhe saw the bongas : and there were crowds of them living in villageslike men. In December when we thresh the rice the bongas carry offhalf of it. but Ramai could see them and would drive them away and so wasable to save his rice.Once a young fellow of his own age was very ill. and his friends blew intohis ears and partially brought him to his senses and he asked them to sendfor Ramai. so they called Ramai and he had just been milking his cows andcame with the tethering rope in his hand. and when he entered the room hesaw a bonga sitting on the sick man's chest and twisting his neck.so he flogged it with the rope till it ran away and he pursued it until itthrew itself into a pool of water. and then the sick man recovered.But Ramai soon lost his useful power. one day as he was eating his dinnerhe dropped some grains of rice, and two ants fell to quarrelling over onegrain, and Ramai heard them abusing each other and was so amused that helaughed out loud.His wife asked why he laughed, and he said at nothing in particular, butshe insisted on knowing and he said that it was at some scandal he hadheard in the village. but she would not believe him and worried him untilhe told her that it was at the quarrel of the ants. Then she made him tellher how he gained the power to understand what they said. But from thatmoment he lost the powers which the bonga had conferred on him.