Once, a long time ago, there was a gentleman had two lassies. Theoldest was ugly and ill natured, but the youngest was a bonnie lassie andgood. but the ugly one was the favorite with her father and mother. Sothey ill used the youngest in every way, and they sent her into the woodsto herd cattle, and all the food she got was a little porridge and whey.Well, amongst the cattle was a red calf, and one day it said to thelassie, "Gee that porridge and whey to the doggie, and come wi' me."So the lassie followed the calf through the wood, and they came to abonnie hoosie, where there was a nice dinner ready for them. and afterthey had feasted on everything nice they went back to the herding.Every day the calf took the lassie away, and feasted her on dainties.and every day she grew bonnier. This disappointed the father and motherand the ugly sister. They expected that the rough usage she was gettingwould take away her beauty. and they watched and watched until they sawthe calf take the lassie away to the feast. So they resolved to kill thecalf. and not only that, but the lassie was to be compelled to kill himwith an axe. Her ugly sister was to hold his head, and the lassie wholoved him had to give the blow and kill him.She could do nothing but greet (weep). but the calf told her not togreet, but to do as he bade her. and his plan was that instead of comingdown on his head she was to come down on the lassie's head who was holdinghim, and then she was to jump on his back and they would run off. Well,the day came for the calf to be killed, and everything was ready   theugly lassie holding his head, and the bonnie lassie armed with the axe.So she raised the axe, and came down on the ugly sister's head. and in theconfusion that took place she got on the calf's back and they ran away.And they ran and better nor ran till they came to a meadow where grew agreat lot of rashes. and, as the lassie had not on many clothes, theypu'ed rashes, and made a coatie for her. And they set off again andtraveled, and traveled, till they came to the king's house. They went in,and asked if they wanted a servant. The mistress said she wanted akitchen lassie, and she would take Rashin Coatie.So Rashin Coatie said she would stop, if they keepit the calf too.They were willing to do that. So the lassie and the calf stoppit in theking's house, and everybody was well pleased with her. and when Yule came,they said she was to stop at home and make the dinner, while all the restwent to the kirk. After they were away the calf asked if she would liketo go. She said she would, but she had no clothes, and she could notleave the dinner. The calf said he would give her clothes, and make thedinner too. He went out, and came back with a grand dress, all silk andsatin, and such a nice pair of slippers. The lassie put on the dress, andbefore she left she said:Ilka peat gar anither burn,An' ilka spit gar anither turn,An' ilka pot gar anither play,Till I come frae the kirk on gude Yule day.So she went to the kirk, and nobody kent it was Rashin Coatie. Theywondered who the bonnie lady could be. and, as soon as the young princesaw her, he fell in love with her, and resolved he would find out who shewas, before she got home. but Rashin Coatie left before the rest, so thatshe might get home in time to take off her dress, and look after thedinner.When the prince saw her leaving, he made for the door to stop her. butshe jumped past him, and in the hurry lost one of her shoes. The princekept the shoe, and Rashin Coatie got home all right, and the folk said thedinner was very nice.Now the prince was resolved to find out who the bonnie lady was, and hesent a servant through all the land with the shoe. Every lady was to tryit on, and the prince promised to marry the one it would fit. Thatservant went to a great many houses, but could not find a lady that theshoe would go on, it was so little and neat. At last he came to ahenwife's house, and her daughter had little feet. At first the shoewould not go on, but she paret her feet, and clippit her toes, until theshoes went on. Now the prince was very angry. He knew it was not thelady that he wanted. but, because he had promised to marry whoever theshoe fitted, he had to keep his promise.The marriage day came, and, as they were all riding to the kirk, alittle bird flew through the air, and it sang:Clippit feet an' paret taes is on the saidle set.But bonnie feet an' braw feet sits in the kitchen neuk."What's that ye say?" said the prince"Oh," says the henwife, "would ye mind what a feel bird says?"But the prince said, "Sing that again, bonnie birdie."So the bird sings:Clippit feet an' paret taes is on the saidle set.But bonnie feet an' braw feet sits in the kitchen neuk.The prince turned his horse and rode home, and went straight to hisfather's kitchen, and there sat Rashin Coatie. He kent her at once, shewas so bonnie. and when she tried on the shoe it fitted her, and so theprince married Rashin Coatie, and they lived happy, and built a house forthe red calf, who had been so kind to her.