You must know that once upon a time Reynard the Fox and Bruin the Bearwent into partnership and kept house together. Would you like to know thereason? Well, Reynard knew that Bruin had a beehive full of honeycomb, andthat was what he wanted. But Bruin kept so close a guard upon his honeythat Master Reynard didn't know how to get away from him and get hold ofthe honey.So one day he said to Bruin, "Pardner, I have to go and be gossip  that means godfather, you know   to one of my old friends.""Why, certainly," said Bruin. So off Reynard goes into the woods, andafter a time he crept back and uncovered the beehive and had such a feastof honey.Then he went back to Bruin, who asked him what name had been given tothe child. Reynard had forgotten all about the christening and could onlysay, "Just Begun.""What a funny name," said Master Bruin.A little while after, Reynard thought he would like another feast ofhoney. So he told Bruin that he had to go to another christening. And offhe went. And when he came back and Bruin asked him what was the name givento the child, Reynard said, "Half Eaten."The third time the same thing occurred, and this time the name given byReynard to the child that didn't exist was "All Gone." You can guesswhy.A short time afterwards, Master Bruin thought he would like to eat upsome of his honey and asked Reynard to come and join him in the feast.When they got to the beehive, Bruin was so surprised to find that therewas no honey left, and he turned round to Reynard and said, "Just Begun,Half Eaten, All Gone. So that is what you meant. You have eaten myhoney.""Why no," said Reynard. "How could that be?" I have never stirred fromyour side except when I went a gossiping (serving as godfather), and thenI was far away from here. You must have eaten the honey yourself, perhapswhen you were asleep. At any rate we can easily tell. Let us lie down herein the sunshine, and if either of us has eaten the honey, the sun willsoon sweat it out of us."No sooner said than done, and the two lay side by side in the sunshine.Soon Master Bruin commenced to doze, and Mr. Reynard took some honey fromthe hive and smeared it round Bruin's snout. Then he woke him up and said,"See, the honey is oozing out of your snout. You must have eaten it whenyou were asleep."