You must know that once upon a time Reynard the Fox and Bruin the Bearwent into partnership and kept house together. Would you like to know thereason? Well, Reynard knew that Bruin had a beehive full of honeycomb,and that was what he wanted. but Bruin kept so close a guard upon hishoney that Master Reynard didn't know how to get away from him and gethold of the honey.So one day he said to Bruin, "Pardner, I have to go and be gossip   thatmeans godfather, you know   to one of my old friends.""Why, certainly," said Bruin.So off Reynard goes into the woods, and after a time he crept back anduncovered the beehive and had such a feast of honey. Then he went back toBruin, who asked him what name had been given to the child. Reynard hadforgotten all about the christening and could only say, "Just begun.""What a funny name," said Master Bruin.A little while after Reynard thought he would like another feast of honey.So he told Bruin that he had to go to another christening. and off hewent. And when he came back and Bruin asked him what was the name given tothe child Reynard said, "Half eaten."The third time the same thing occurred, and this time the name given byReynard to the child that didn't exist was "All gone." You can guess why.A short time afterwards Master Bruin thought he would like to eat up someof his honey and asked Reynard to come and join him in the feast. Whenthey got to the beehive Bruin was so surprised to find that there was nohoney left. and he turned round to Reynard and said, "Just begun, Half eaten, All gone   so that is what you meant. you have eaten my honey.""Why no," said Reynard, "how could that be? I have never stirred from yourside except when I went a gossiping, and then I was far away from here.You must have eaten the honey yourself, perhaps when you were asleep. atany rate we can easily tell. let us lie down here in the sunshine, and ifeither of us has eaten the honey, the sun will soon sweat it out of us."No sooner said than done, and the two lay side by side in the sunshine.Soon Master Bruin commenced to doze, and Mr. Reynard took some honey fromthe hive and smeared it round Bruin's snout. then he woke him up and said,"See, the honey is oozing out of your snout. you must have eaten it whenyou were asleep."Some time after this Reynard saw a man driving a cart full of fish, whichmade his mouth water. So he ran and he ran and he ran till he got far awayin front of the cart and lay down in the road as still as if he were dead.When the man came up to him and saw him lying there dead, as he thought,he said to himself, "Why, that will make a beautiful red fox scarf andmuff for my wife Ann."And he got down and seized hold of Reynard and threw him into the cart allalong with the fish, and then he went driving on as before. Reynard beganto throw the fish out till there were none left, and then he jumped outhimself without the man noticing it, who drove up to his door and calledout, "Ann, Ann, see what I have brought you."And when his wife came to the door she looked into the cart and said,"Why, there is nothing there."Reynard in the meantime had brought all his fish together and began eatingsome when up comes Bruin and asked for a share."No, no," said Reynard, "we only share food when we have shared work. Ifished for these, you go and fish for others.""Why, how could you fish for these? The water is all frozen over," saidBruin."I'll soon show you," said Reynard, and brought him down to the bank ofthe river, and pointed to a hole in the ice and said, "I put my tail inthat, and the fish were so hungry I couldn't draw them up quick enough.Why do you not do the same?"So Bruin put his tail down and waited and waited but no fish came. "Havepatience, man," said Reynard. "as soon as one fish comes the rest willfollow.""Ah, I feel a bite," said Bruin, as the water commenced to freeze roundhis tail and caught it in the ice."Better wait till two or three have been caught and then you can catchthree at a time. I'll go back and finish my lunch."And with that Master Reynard trotted up to the man's wife and said to her,"Ma'am, there's a big black bear caught by the tail in the ice. you can dowhat you like with him."So the woman called her husband and they took big sticks and went down tothe river and commenced whacking Bruin who, by this time, was fast in theice. He pulled and he pulled and he pulled, till at last he got awayleaving three quarters of his tail in the ice, and that is why bears havesuch short tails up to the present day.Meanwhile Master Reynard was having a great time in the man's house,golloping everything he could find till the man and his wife came back andfound him with his nose in the cream jug. As soon as he heard them come inhe tried to get away, but not before the man had seized hold of the creamjug and thrown it at him, just catching him on the tail, and that is thereason why the tips of foxes' tails are cream white to this very day.Well, Reynard crept home and found Bruin in such a state, who commenced togrumble and complain that it was all Reynard's fault that he had lost histail.So Reynard pointed to his own tail and said, "Why, that's nothing. see mytail. they hit me so hard upon the head my brains fell out upon my tail.Oh, how bad I feel. won't you carry me to my little bed."So Bruin, who was a good hearted soul, took him upon his back and rolledwith him towards the house. And as he went on Reynard kept saying, "Thesick carries the sound, the sick carries the sound.""What's that you are saying?" asked Bruin."Oh, I have no brains left, I do not know what I am saying," said Reynardbut kept on singing, "The sick carries the sound, ha, ha, the sick carriesthe sound."Then Bruin knew that he had been done and threw Reynard down upon theground, and would have eaten him up but that the fox slunk away and rushedinto a briar bush. Bruin followed him closely into the briar bush andcaught Reynard's hind leg in his mouth. Then Reynard called out, "That'sright, you fool, bite the briar root, bite the briar root."Bruin thinking that he was biting the briar root, let go Reynard's footand snapped at the nearest briar root. "That's right, now you've got me,don't hurt me too much," called out Reynard, and slunk away. "Don't hurtme too much, don't hurt me too much."When Bruin heard Reynard's voice dying away in the distance he knew thathe had been done again, and that was the end of their partnership.Some time after this a man was plowing in the field with his two oxen, whowere very lazy that day. So the man called out at them, "Get a move on orI'll give you to the bear". and when they didn't quicken their pace hetried to frighten them by calling out, "Bear, Bear, come and take theselazy oxen."Sure enough, Bruin heard him and came out of the woods and said, "Here Iam, give me the oxen, or else it'll be worse for you."The man was in despair but said, "Yes, yes, of course they are yours, butplease let me finish my morning's plowing so I may finish this acre."Bruin could not say "No" to that, and sat down licking his chops andwaiting for the oxen. The man went on plowing, thinking what he should do,when just at the corner of the field Reynard came up to him and said, "Ifyou will give me two geese, I'll help you out of this fix and deliver thebear into your hands."The man agreed and he told him what to do and went away into the woods.Soon after, the bear and the man heard a noise like "bow wow, bow wow".and the Bear came to the man and said, "What's that?""Oh, that must be the lord's hounds out hunting for bears.""Hide me, hide me," said Bruin, "and I will let you off the oxen."Then Reynard called out from the wood, "What's that black thing you've gotthere?"And the Bear said, "Say it's the stump of a tree."So when the man had called this out to the fox, Reynard called out, "Putit in the cart. fix it with the chain. cut off the boughs, and drive youraxe into the stump."Then the bear said to the man, "Pretend to do what he bids you. heave meinto the cart. bind me with the chain. pretend to cut off the boughs, anddrive the axe into the stump."So the man lifted Bruin into the cart, bound him with the chain, then cutoff his limbs and buried the axe in his head.Then Reynard came forward and asked for his reward, and the man went backto his house to get the pair of geese that he had promised."Wife, wife," he called out, as he neared the house, "get me a pair ofgeese, which I have promised the fox for ridding me of the bear.""I can do better than that," said his wife Ann, and brought him out a bagwith two struggling animals in it."Give these to Master Reynard," said she. "they will be geese enough forhim." So the man took the bag and went down to the field and gave the bagto Reynard, but when he opened it out sprang two hounds, and he had greattrouble in running away from them to his den.When he got to his den the fox asked each of his limbs, how they hadhelped him in his flight. His nose said, "I smelt the hounds". his eyessaid, "We looked for the shortest way". his ears said, "We listened forthe breathing of the hounds". and his legs said, "We ran away with you."Then he asked his tail what it had done, and it said, "Why, I got caughtin the bushes or made your leg stumble. that is all I could do."So, as a punishment, the fox stuck his tail out of his den, and the houndssaw it and caught hold of it, and dragged the fox out of his den by it andate him all up. So that was the end of Master Reynard, and well hedeserved it. Don't you think so?