The Macgowans of Grayscroft inTongland,and latterly of Bogra, had the power of witchcraft to a considerable extent, and it descended from one generation to another. At the time we refer to, Abraham Macgowan and his daughter Jenny resided at Grayscroft Jenny had an unlimited power from Old Nick to act as she pleased. The ploughmen at that time in their employ were Harry Dew and Davie Gordon, young men about twenty two years of age. they had been there for the last twelve months. and conversing one day together, the following took place:Harry: " Losh man, Davie, what makes ye sae drowsy, lazy, and sleepy like the day, for I am verra sure ye work nae mair than I do. ye eat the same and sleep the same as I do, and yet ye are so thin and wearied and hungry like, I dinna ken ava what ails ye. are ye weel eneugh, Davie?""I'm weel eneugh, Harry, but it's a' ye ken about it. sleep a night or twa at the bedside, and maybe you'll no be sae apt to ask me sic questions again."Harry: "The bedside, Davie! What differ will that make? I hae nae mair objections to sleep there than at the wa'."This being agreed to, they exchanged places. Nothing occurred to disturb either of them till the third night, although Harry kept watch. their bed was on the stable loft, when, about midnight, the stable door was opened cautiously, and someone was heard (by Harry only) coming up the ladder and to the bedside, with a quiet step.A bridle was held above the one next the bedside, and the words, "Up horsey," whispered in his ear. in one moment Harry was transformed into a horse at the stable door. The saddle was got on with some kicking and plunging, but Jenny gets mounted, and off they set by the Elfcraigs, Auld Brig o' Tongland, the March Cleughs, and on till they reach the Auld Kirk of Buittle.Harry was tied to the gate along with others. Meg o' Glengap was there on her dairymaid, now a bonny mare, neat in all her proportions. "Tib" o' Criille came on her auld ploughman, rather wind broken. "Lizzy," frae the Bennan, came on her cot wife, limping with a swelled knee. "Moll o' the Wood" came on a herd callant frae the "How o' Siddick."When all the horses were mustered, there was some snorting and kicking and neighing amongst them. Fairies, witches, brownies, and all met in the kirk and had a blithe holiday, under the patronage of his Satanic majesty, which continued till the crowing of the cock.Wearied with his gallop, Harry, when the charmed bridle was taken off, found himself in his own bed and in his own shape. Harry is determined to be revenged. he finds the charmed bridle in a hole in the kitchen in a week after. he tries it on Jenny, using the same words, when Jenny is transformed into the auld brown mare of the farm. he takes her to the neighbouring smithy, and gets her, after much ado, shod all round, when he returns and leaves her, after securing the wonderful bridle.Next morning Harry is ordered to go for a doctor, as his mistress has taken ill. He goes into the house to ask for her. pulls the bed clothes off her, and discovers there was a horseshoe on each hand and foot, when Harry says, "Jenny, my lass, that did ye."Jenny played many more similar tricks on her neighbour lads and lasses.