There was, once upon a time, a Queen, who was brought to bed of a son,so hideously ugly, that it was long disputed, whether he had humanform. A Fairy, who was at his birth, affirmed, he would be verylovable for all that, since he should be indowed with abundance ofwit. She even added, that it would be in his power, by virtue of agift she had just then given him, to bestow on the person he mostloved as much wit as he pleased. All this somewhat comforted the poorQueen, who was under a grievous affliction for having brought into theworld such an ugly brat. It is true, that this child no sooner beganto prattle, but he said a thousand pretty things, and that in all hisactions there was something so taking, that he charmed every body. Iforgot to tell you, that he came into the world with a little tuft ofhair upon his head, which made them call him Riquet with the Tuft, forRiquet was the family name.Seven or eight years after this, the Queen of a neighbouring kingdomwas delivered of two daughters at a birth. The first born of these wasbeautiful beyond compare, whereat the Queen was so very glad, thatthose present were afraid that her excess of joy would do her harm.The same Fairy, who had assisted at the birth of little Riquet withthe Tuft, was here also. and, to moderate the Queen's gladness, shedeclared, that this little Princess should have no wit at all, but beas stupid as she was pretty. This mortified the Queen extreamly, butsome moments afterwards she had far greater sorrow. for, the seconddaughter she was delivered of, was very ugly."Do not afflict yourself so much, Madam," said the Fairy. "yourdaughter shall have so great a portion of wit, that her want of beautywill scarcely be perceived.""God grant it," replied the Queen. "but is there no way to make theeldest, who is so pretty, have some little wit?""I can do nothing for her, Madam, as to wit," answered the Fairy, "buteverything as to beauty. and as there is nothing but what I would dofor your satisfaction, I give her for gift, that she shall have thepower to make handsome the person who shall best please her."As these Princesses grew up, their perfections grew up with them. allthe public talk was of the beauty of the eldest, and the wit of theyoungest. It is true also that their defects increased considerablywith their age. the youngest visibly grew uglier and uglier, and theeldest became every day more and more stupid. she either made noanswer at all to what was asked her, or said something very silly. shewas with all this so unhandy, that she could not place four pieces ofchina upon the mantlepiece, without breaking one of them, nor drink aglass of water without spilling half of it upon her cloaths. Tho'beauty is a very great advantage in young people, yet here theyoungest sister bore away the bell, almost always, in all companiesfrom the eldest. people would indeed, go first to the Beauty to lookupon, and admire her, but turn aside soon after to the Wit, to hear athousand most entertaining and agreeable turns, and it was amazing tosee, in less than a quarter of an hour's time, the eldest with not asoul with her and the whole company crowding about the youngest. Theeldest, tho' she was unaccountably dull, could not but notice it, andwould have given all her beauty to have half the wit of her sister.The Queen, prudent as she was, could not help reproaching her severaltimes, which had like to have made this poor Princess die for grief.One day, as she retired into the wood to bewail her misfortune, shesaw, coming to her, a little man, very disagreeable, but mostmagnificently dressed. This was the young Prince Riquet with the Tuft,who having fallen in love with her, by seeing her picture, many ofwhich went all the world over, had left his father's kingdom, to havethe pleasure of seeing and talking with her.Overjoyed to find her thus all alone, he addressed himself to her withall imaginable politeness and respect. Having observed, after he hadmade her the ordinary compliments, that she was extremely melancholy,he said to her:"I cannot comprehend, Madam, how a person so beautiful as you are, canbe so sorrowful as you seem to be. for tho' I can boast of having seeninfinite numbers of ladies exquisitely charming, I can say that Inever beheld any one whose beauty approaches yours.""You are pleased to say so," answered the Princess, and here shestopped."Beauty," replied Riquet with the Tuft, "is such a great advantage,that it ought to take the place of all things. and since you possessthis treasure, I see nothing that can possibly very much afflict you.""I had far rather," cried the Princess, "be as ugly as you are, andhave wit, than have the beauty I possess, and be so stupid as I am.""There is nothing, Madam," returned he, "shews more that we have wit,than to believe we have none. and it is the nature of that excellentquality, that the more people have of it, the more they believe theywant it.""I do not know that," said the Princess. "but I know, very well, thatI am very senseless, and thence proceeds the vexation which almostkills me.""If that be all, Madam, which troubles you, I can very easily put anend to your affliction.""And how will you do that?" cried the Princess."I have the power, Madam," replied Riquet with the Tuft, "to give tothat person whom I shall love best, as much wit as can be had. and asyou, Madam, are that very person, it will be your fault only, if youhave not as great a share of it as any one living, provided you willbe pleased to marry me."The Princess remained quite astonished, and answered not a word.(: "THE PRINCE BELIEVED HE HAD GIVEN HER MORE WIT THAN HEHAD RESERVED FOR HIMSELF")"I see," replied Riquet with the Tuft, "that this proposal makes youvery uneasy, and I do not wonder at it, but I will give you a wholeyear to consider of it."The Princess had so little wit, and, at the same time, so great alonging to have some, that she imagined the end of that year wouldnever be. therefore she accepted the proposal which was made her. Shehad no sooner promised Riquet with the Tuft that she would marry himon that day twelvemonth, than she found herself quite otherwise thanshe was before. she had an incredible facility of speaking whatevershe pleased, after a polite, easy, and natural manner. she began thatmoment a very gallant conversation with Riquet with the Tuft, whereinshe tattled at such a rate, that Riquet with the Tuft believed he hadgiven her more wit than he had reserved for himself.When she returned to the palace, the whole Court knew not what tothink of such a sudden and extraordinary change. for they heard fromher now as much sensible discourse, and as many infinitely wittyturns, as they had stupid and silly impertinences before. The wholeCourt was overjoyed at it beyond imagination. it pleased all but heryounger sister. because having no longer the advantage of her inrespect of wit, she appeared, in comparison of her, a verydisagreeable, homely puss. The King governed himself by her advice,and would even sometimes hold a council in her apartment. The noise ofthis change spreading every where, all the young Princes of theneighbouring kingdoms strove all they could to gain her favour, andalmost all of them asked her in marriage. but she found not one ofthem had wit enough for her, and she gave them all a hearing, butwould not engage herself to any.However, there came one so powerful, rich, witty and handsome, thatshe could not help having a good inclination for him. Her fatherperceived it, and told her that she was her own mistress as to thechoice of a husband, and that she might declare her intentions. As themore wit we have, the greater difficulty we find to make a firmresolution upon such affairs, this made her desire her father, afterhaving thanked him, to give her time to consider of it.She went accidentally to walk in the same wood where she met Riquetwith the Tuft, to think, the more conveniently, what she ought to do.While she was walking in a profound meditation, she heard a confusednoise under her feet, as it were of a great many people who wentbackwards and forwards, and were very busy. Having listened moreattentively, she heard one say:"Bring me that pot". another "Give me that kettle". and a third, "Putsome wood upon the fire."The ground at the same time opened, and she seemingly saw under herfeet, a great kitchen full of cooks, scullions, and all sorts ofservants necessary for a magnificent entertainment. There came out ofit a company of roasters, to the number of twenty, or thirty, who wentto plant themselves in a fine alley of wood, about a very long table,with their larding pins in their hands, and skewers in their caps,who began to work, keeping time, to the tune of a very harmonioussong.The Princess, all astonished at this sight, asked them who they workedfor."For Prince Riquet with the Tuft," said the chief of them, "who is tobe married to morrow."The Princess was more surprised than ever, and recollecting that itwas now that day twelvemonth on which she had promised to marry Riquetwith the Tuft, she was like to sink into the ground.What made her forget this was that, when she made this promise, shewas very silly, and having obtained that vast stock of wit which thePrince had bestowed on her, she had intirely forgot her stupidity. Shecontinued walking, but had not taken thirty steps before Riquet withthe Tuft presented himself to her, bravely and most magnificentlydressed, like a Prince who was going to be married."You see, Madam," said he, "I am very exact in keeping my word, anddoubt not, in the least, but you are come hither to perform yours, andto make me, by giving me your hand, the happiest of men.""I shall freely own to you," answered the Princess, "that I have notyet taken any resolution on this affair, and believe I never shalltake such a one as you desire.""You astonish me, Madam," said Riquet with the Tuft."I believe it," said the Princess, "and surely if I had to do with aclown, or a man of no wit, I should find myself very much at a loss.'A Princess always observes her word,' would he say to me, 'and youmust marry me, since you promised to do so.' But as he whom I talk tois the man of the world who is master of the greatest sense andjudgment, I am sure he will hear reason. You know, that when I was buta fool, I could, notwithstanding, never come to a resolution to marryyou. why will you have me, now I have so much judgment as you gave me,and which makes me a more difficult person than I was at that time, tocome to such a resolution, which I could not then determine to agreeto? If you sincerely thought to make me your wife, you have beengreatly in the wrong to deprive me of my dull simplicity, and make mesee things much more clearly than I did.""If a man of no wit and sense," replied Riquet with the Tuft, "wouldbe entitled, as you say, to reproach you for breach of your word, whywill you not let me, Madam, do likewise in a matter wherein all thehappiness of my life is concerned? Is it reasonable that persons ofwit and sense should be in a worse condition than those who have none?Can you pretend this. you who have so great a share, and desired soearnestly to have it? But let us come to fact, if you please. Settingaside my ugliness and deformity, is there any thing in me whichdispleases you? Are you dissatisfied with my birth, my wit, humour, ormanners?"(: "RIQUET WITH THE TUFT APPEARED TO HER THE FINEST PRINCEUPON EARTH")"Not at all," answered the Princess. "I love you and respect you inall that you mention." "If it be so," said Riquet with the Tuft, "Iam like to be happy, since it is in your power to make me the mostlovable of men.""How can that be?" said the Princess."It will come about," said Riquet with the Tuft. "if you love meenough to wish it to be so. and that you may no ways doubt, Madam, ofwhat I say, know that the same Fairy, who, on my birth day, gave mefor gift the power of making the person who should please me extremelywitty and judicious, has, in like manner, given you for gift the powerof making him, whom you love, and would grant that favour to,extremely handsome.""If it be so," said the Princess, "I wish, with all my heart, that youmay be the most lovable Prince in the world, and I bestow it on you,as much as I am able."The Princess had no sooner pronounced these words, but Riquet with theTuft appeared to her the finest Prince upon earth. the handsomest andmost amiable man she ever saw. Some affirm that it was not theenchantments of the Fairy which worked this change, but that lovealone caused the metamorphosis. They say, that the Princess, havingmade due reflection on the perseverance of her lover, his discretion,and all the good qualities of his mind, his wit and judgment, saw nolonger the deformity of his body, nor the ugliness of his face. thathis hump seemed to her no more than the homely air of one who has abroad back. and that whereas till then she saw him limp horribly, shefound it nothing more than a certain sidling air, which charmed her.They say farther, that his eyes, which were very squinting, seemed toher all the more bright and sparkling. that their irregularity passedin her judgment for a mark of a violent excess of love. and, in short,that his great red nose had, in her opinion, somewhat of the martialand heroic.Howsoever it was, the Princess promised immediately to marry him, oncondition he obtained her father's consent. The King being acquaintedthat his daughter had abundance of esteem for Riquet with the Tuft,whom he knew otherwise for a most sage and judicious Prince, receivedhim for his son in law with pleasure. and the next morning theirnuptials were celebrated, as Riquet with the Tuft had foreseen, andaccording to the orders he had a long time before given.