Over all the vast under world the mountain Gnome Rubezahl was lord. andbusy enough the care of his dominions kept him. There were the endlesstreasure chambers to be gone through, and the hosts of gnomes to bekept to their tasks. Some built strong barriers to hold back the fieryvapours to change dull stones to precious metal, or were hard at workfilling every cranny of the rocks with diamonds and rubies. for Rubezahlloved all pretty things. Sometimes the fancy would take him to leavethose gloomy regions, and come out upon the green earth for a while, andbask in the sunshine and hear the birds sing. And as gnomes live manyhundreds of years he saw strange things. For, the first time he came up,the great hills were covered with thick forests, in which wild animalsroamed, and Rubezahl watched the fierce fights between bear and bison,or chased the grey wolves, or amused himself by rolling great rocks downinto the desolate valleys, to hear the thunder of their fall echoingamong the hills. But the next time he ventured above ground, what washis surprise to find everything changed! The dark woods were hewn down,and in their place appeared blossoming orchards surrounding cosy lookingthatched cottages. for every chimney the blue smoke curled peacefullyinto the air, sheep and oxen fed in the flowery meadows, while fromthe shade of the hedges came the music of the shepherd's pipe. Thestrangeness and pleasantness of the sight so delighted the gnome thathe never thought of resenting the intrusion of these unexpected guests,who, without saying 'by your leave' or 'with your leave,' had madethemselves so very much at home upon is hills. nor did he wish tointerfere with their doings, but left them in quiet possession of theirhomes, as a good householder leaves in peace the swallows who havebuilt their nests under his eaves. He was indeed greatly minded to makefriends with this being called 'man,' so, taking the form of an oldfield labourer, he entered the service of a farmer. Under his care allthe crops flourished exceedingly, but the master proved to be wastefuland ungrateful, and Rubezahl soon left him, and went to be shepherd tohis next neighbour. He tended the flock so diligently, and knew so wellwhere to lead the sheep to the sweetest pastures, and where among thehills to look for any who strayed away, that they too prospered underhis care, and not one was lost or torn by wolves. but this new masterwas a hard man, and begrudged him his well earned wages. So he ran awayand went to serve the judge. Here he upheld the law with might and main,and was a terror to thieves and evildoers. but the judge was a bad man,who took bribes, and despised the law. Rubezahl would not be the tool ofan unjust man, and so he told his master, who thereupon ordered him tobe thrown in prison. Of course that did not trouble the gnome at all,he simply got out through the keyhole, and went away down to hisunderground palace, very much disappointed by his first experience ofmankind. But, as time went on, he forgot the disagreeable things thathad happened to him, and thought he would take another look at the upperworld.So he stole into the valley, keeping himself carefully hidden in copseor hedgerow, and very soon met with an adventure. for, peeping through ascreen of leaves, he saw before him a green lawn where stood a charmingmaiden, fresh as the spring, and beautiful to look upon. Around her uponthe grass lay her young companions, as if they had thrown themselvesdown to rest after some merry game. Beyond them flowed a little brook,into which a waterfall leapt from a high rock, filling the air with itspleasant sound, and making a coolness even in the sultry noontide. Thesight of the maiden so pleased the gnome that, for the first time,he wished himself a mortal. and, longing for a better view of the gaycompany, he changed himself into a raven and perched upon an oaktreewhich overhung the brook. But he soon found that this was not at all agood plan. He could only see with a raven's eyes, and feel as a ravenfeels. and a nest of field mice at the foot of the tree interested himfar more than the sport of the maidens. When he understood this he flewdown again in a great hurry into the thicket, and took the form of ahandsome young man that was the best way and he fell in love with thegirl then and there. The fair maiden was the daughter of the king ofthe country, and she often wandered in the forest with her play fellowsgathering the wild flowers and fruits, till the midday heat drove themerry band to the shady lawn by the brook to rest, or to bathe in thecool waters. On this particular morning the fancy took them to wanderoff again into the wood. This was Master Rubezahl's opportunity.Stepping out of his hiding place he stood in the midst of the littlelawn, weaving his magic spells, till slowly all about him changed, andwhen the maidens returned at noon to their favourite resting place theystood lost in amazement, and almost fancied that they must be dreaming.The red rocks had become white marble and alabaster. the stream thatmurmured and struggled before in its rocky bed, flowed in silence now inits smooth channel, from which a clear fountain leapt, to fall again inshowers of diamond drops, now on this side now on that, as the wanderingbreeze scattered it.Daisies and forget me nots fringed its brink, while tall hedges of rosesand jasmine ringed it round, making the sweetest and daintiest bowerimaginable. To the right and left of the waterfall opened out awonderful grotto, its walls and arches glittering with many colouredrock crystals, while in every niche were spread out strange fruits andsweetmeats, the very sight of which made the princess long to tastethem. She hesitated a while, however, scarcely able to believe her eyes,and not knowing if she should enter the enchanted spot or fly from it.But at length curiosity prevailed, and she and her companions exploredto their heart's content, and tasted and examined everything, runninghither and thither in high glee, and calling merrily to each other.At last, when they were quite weary, the princess cried out suddenlythat nothing would content her but to bathe in the marble pool, whichcertainly did look very inviting. and they all went gaily to this newamusement. The princess was ready first, but scarcely had she slippedover the rim of the pool when down down down she sank, and vanished inits depths before her frightened playmates could seize her by so much asa lock of her floating golden hair!Loudly did they weep and wail, running about the brink of the pool,which looked so shallow and so clear, but which had swallowed up theirprincess before their eyes. They even sprang into the water and triedto dive after her, but in vain. they only floated like corks in theenchanted pool, and could not keep under water for a second.They saw at last that there was nothing for it but to carry to the kingthe sad tidings of his beloved daughter's disappearance. And what greatweeping and lamentation there was in the palace when the dreadful newswas told! The king tore his robes, dashed his golden crown from hishead, and hid his face in his purple mantle for grief and anguish at theloss of the princess. After the first outburst of wailing, however, hetook heart and hurried off to see for himself the scene of this strangeadventure, thinking, as people will in sorrow, that there might be somemistake after all. But when he reached the spot, behold, all waschanged again! The glittering grotto described to him by the maidens hadcompletely vanished, and so had the marble bath, the bower of jasmine.instead, all was a tangle of flowers, as it had been of old. The kingwas so much perplexed that he threatened the princess's playfellows withall sorts of punishments if they would not confess something about herdisappearance. but as they only repeated the same story he presently putdown the whole affair to the work of some sprite or goblin, and tried toconsole himself for his loss by ordering a grand hunt. for kings cannotbear to be troubled about anything long.Meanwhile the princess was not at all unhappy in the palace of herelfish lover.When the water nymphs, who were hiding in readiness, had caught her anddragged her out of the sight of her terrified maidens, she herself hadnot had time to be frightened. They swam with her quickly by strangeunderground ways to a palace so splendid that her father's seemed buta poor cottage in comparison with it, and when she recovered fromher astonishment she found herself seated upon a couch, wrapped in awonderful robe of satin fastened with a silken girdle, while beside herknelt a young man who whispered the sweetest speeches imaginable in herear. The gnome, for he it was, told her all about himself and his greatunderground kingdom, and presently led her through the many roomsand halls of the palace, and showed her the rare and wonderful thingsdisplayed in them till she was fairly dazzled at the sight of so muchsplendour. On three sides of the castle lay a lovely garden with massesof gay, sweet flowers, and velvet lawns all cool and shady, whichpleased the eye of the princess. The fruit trees were hung with goldenand rosy apples, and nightingales sang in every bush, as the gnome andthe princess wandered in the leafy alleys, sometimes gazing at the moon,sometimes pausing to gather the rarest flowers for her adornment. Andall the time he was thinking to himself that never, during the hundredsof years he had lived, had he seen so charming a maiden. But theprincess felt no such happiness. in spite of all the magic delightsaround her she was sad, though she tried to seem content for fear ofdispleasing the gnome. However, he soon perceived her melancholy, and ina thousand ways strove to dispel the cloud, but in vain. At last he saidto himself: 'Men are sociable creatures, like bees or ants. Doubtlessthis lovely mortal is pining for company. Who is there I can find forher to talk to?'Thereupon he hastened into the nearest filed and dug up a dozen or soof different roots carrots, turnips, and radishes and laying themcarefully in an elegant basket brought them to the princess, who satpensive in the shade of the rose bower.'Loveliest daughter of earth,' said the gnome, 'banish all sorrow. nomore shall you be lonely in my dwelling. In this basket is all you needto make this spot delightful to you. Take this little many colouredwand, and with a touch give to each root the form you desire to see.'With this he left her, and the princess, without an instant's delay,opened the basket, and touching a turnip, cried eagerly: 'Brunhilda,my dear Brunhilda! come to me quickly!' And sure enough there wasBrunhilda, joyfully hugging and kissing her beloved princess, andchattering as gaily as in the old days.This sudden appearance was so delightful that the princess could hardlybelieve her own eyes, and was quite beside herself with the joy ofhaving her dear playfellow with her once more. Hand in hand theywandered about the enchanted garden, and gathered the golden apples fromthe trees, and when they were tired of this amusement the princess ledher friend through all the wonderful rooms of the palace, until at lastthey came to the one in which were kept all the marvellous dresses andornaments the gnome had given to his hoped for bride. There theyfound so much to amuse them that the hours passed like minutes.Veils, girdles, and necklaces were tried on and admired, the imitationBrunhilda knew so well how to behave herself, and showed so much tastethat nobody would ever have suspected that she was nothing but a turnipafter all. The gnome, who had secretly been keeping an eye upon them,was very pleased with himself for having so well understood the heart ofa woman. and the princess seemed to him even more charming than before.She did not forget to touch the rest of the roots with her magic wand,and soon had all her maidens about her, and even, as she had two tinyradishes to spare, her favourite cat, and her little dog whose name wasBeni.And now all went cheerfully in the castle. The princess gave to each ofthe maidens her task, and never was mistress better served. For a wholeweek she enjoyed the delight of her pleasant company undisturbed. Theyall sang, they danced, they played from morning to night. only theprincess noticed that day by day the fresh young faces of her maidensgrew pale and wan, and the mirror in the great marble hall showed herthat she alone still kept her rosy bloom, while Brunhilda and therest faded visibly. They assured her that all was well with them. but,nevertheless, they continued to waste away, and day by day it becameharder to them to take part in the games of the princess, till at last,one fine morning, when the princess started from bed and hastened out tojoin her gay playfellows, she shuddered and started back at the sight ofa group of shrivelled crones, with bent backs and trembling limbs, whosupported their tottering steps with staves and crutches, and cougheddismally. A little nearer to the hearth lay the once frolicsome Beni,with all four feet stretched stiffly out, while the sleek cat seemed tooweak to raise his head from his velvet cushion.The horrified princess fled to the door to escape from the sight of thismournful company, and called loudly for the gnome, who appeared at once,humbly anxious to do her bidding.'Malicious Sprite,' she cried, 'why do you begrudge me my playmates the greatest delight of my lonely hours? Isn't this solitary life insuch a desert bad enough without your turning the castle into a hospitalfor the aged? Give my maidens back their youth and health this veryminute, or I will never love you!''Sweetest and fairest of damsels,' cried the gnome, 'do not be angry.everything that is in my power I will do but do not ask the impossible.So long as the sap was fresh in the roots the magic staff could keepthem in the forms you desired, but as the sap dried up they witheredaway. But never trouble yourself about that, dearest one, a basket offresh turnips will soon set matters right, and you can speedily call upagain every form you wish to see. The great green patch in the gardenwill prove you with a more lively company.'So saying the gnome took himself off. And the princess with her magicwand touched the wrinkled old women, and left them the withered rootsthey really were, to be thrown upon the rubbish heap. and with lightfeet skipped off across to the meadow to take possession of the freshlyfilled basket. But to her surprise she could not find it anywhere. Upand down the garden she searched, spying into every corner, but not asign of it was to be found. By the trellis of grape vines she met thegnome, who was so much embarrassed at the sight of her that she becameaware of his confusion while he was still quite a long way off.'You are trying to tease me,' she cried, as soon as she saw him. 'Wherehave you hidden the basket? I have been looking for it at least anhour.''Dear queen of my heart,' answered he, 'I pray you to forgive mycarelessness. I promised more than I could perform. I have sought allover the land for the roots you desire. but they are gathered in, andlie drying in musty cellars, and the fields are bare and desolate, forbelow in the valley winter reigns, only here in your presence springis held fast, and wherever your foot is set the gay flowers bloom. Havepatience for a little, and then without fail you shall have your puppetsto play with.'Almost before the gnome had finished, the disappointed princess turnedaway, and marched off to her own apartments, without deigning to answerhim.The gnome, however, set off above ground as speedily as possible,and disguising himself as a farmer, bought an ass in the nearestmarket town, and brought it back loaded with sacks of turnip, carrot,and radish seed. With this he sowed a great field, and sent a vast armyof his goblins to watch and tend it, and to bring up the fiery riversfrom the heart of the earth near enough to warm and encourage thesprouting seeds. Thus fostered they grew and flourished marvellously,and promised a goodly crop.The princess wandered about the field day by day, no other plants orfruits in all her wonderful garden pleased her as much as these roots.but still her eyes were full of discontent. And, best of all, she lovedto while away the hours in a shady fir wood, seated upon the bank of alittle stream, into which she would cast the flowers she had gatheredand watch them float away.The gnome tried hard by every means in his power to please the princessand win her love, but little did he guess the real reason of his lackof success. He imagined that she was too young and inexperienced to carefor him. but that was a mistake, for the truth was that another imagealready filled her heart. The young Prince Ratibor, whose lands joinedher father's, had won the heart of the princess. and the lovers hadbeen looking forward to the coming of their wedding day when thebride's mysterious disappearance took place. The sad news drove Ratibordistracted, and as the days went on, and nothing could be heard of theprincess, he forsook his castle and the society of men, and spent hisdays in the wild forests, roaming about and crying her name aloud to thetrees and rocks. Meanwhile, the maiden, in her gorgeous prison, sighedin secret over her grief, not wishing to arouse the gnome's suspicions.In her own mind she was wondering if by any means she might escape fromher captivity, and at last she hit upon a plan.By this time spring once more reigned in the valley, and the gnome sentthe fires back to their places in the deeps of the earth, for the rootswhich they had kept warm through all the cruel winter hand now come totheir full size. Day by day the princess pulled up some of them, andmade experiments with them, conjuring up now this longed for person, andnow that, just for the pleasure of seeing them as they appeared. but shereally had another purpose in view.One day she changed a tiny turnip into a bee, and sent him off to bringher some news of her lover.'Fly, dear little bee, towards the east,' said she, 'to my belovedRatibor, and softly hum into his ear that I love him only, but that Iam a captive in the gnome's palace under the mountains. Do not forgeta single word of my greeting, and bring me back a message from mybeloved.'So the bee spread his shining wings and flew away to do as he wasbidden. but before he was out of sight a greedy swallow made a snatch athim, and to the great grief of the princess her messenger was eaten upthen and there.After that, by the power of the wonderful wand she summoned a cricket,and taught him this greeting:'Hop, little cricket, to Ratibor, and chirp in his ear that I love himonly, but that I am held captive by the gnome in his palace under themountains.'So the cricket hopped off gaily, determined to do his best to deliverhis message. but, alas! a long legged stork who was prancing along thesame road caught him in her cruel beak, and before he could say a wordhe had disappeared down her throat.These two unlucky ventures did not prevent the princess from trying oncemore.This time she changed the turnip into a magpie.'Flutter from tree to tree, chattering bird,' said she, 'till you cometo Ratibor, my love. Tell him that I am a captive, and bid him come withhorses and men, the third day from this, to the hill that rises from theThorny Valley.'The magpie listened, hopped awhile from branch to branch, and thendarted away, the princess watching him anxiously as far as she couldsee.Now Prince Ratibor was still spending his life in wandering about thewoods, and not even the beauty of the spring could soothe his grief.One day, as he sat in the shade of an oak tree, dreaming of his lostprincess, and sometimes crying her name aloud, he seemed to hear anothervoice reply to his, and, starting up, he gazed around him, but he couldsee no one, and he had just made up his mind that he must be mistaken,when the same voice called again, and, looking up sharply, he saw amagpie which hopped to and fro among the twigs. Then Ratibor heard withsurprise that the bird was indeed calling him by name.'Poor chatterpie,' said he. 'who taught you to say that name, whichbelongs to an unlucky mortal who wishes the earth would open and swallowup him and his memory for ever?'Thereupon he caught up a great stone, and would have hurled it at themagpie, if it had not at that moment uttered the name of the princess.This was so unexpected that the prince's arm fell helplessly to his sideat the sound, and he stood motionless.But the magpie in the tree, who, like all the rest of his family, wasnot happy unless he could be for ever chattering, began to repeat themessage the princess had taught him. and as soon as he understood it,Prince Ratibor's heart was filed with joy. All his gloom and miseryvanished in a moment, and he anxiously questioned the welcome messengeras to the fate of the princess.But the magpie knew no more than the lesson he had learnt, so he soonfluttered away. while the prince hurried back to his castle to gathertogether a troop of horsemen, full of courage for whatever might befall.The princess meanwhile was craftily pursuing her plan of escape. Sheleft off treating the gnome with coldness and indifference. indeed,there was a look in her eyes which encouraged him to hope that she mightsome day return his love, and the idea pleased him mightily. The nextday, as soon as the sun rose, she made her appearance decked as a bride,in the wonderful robes and jewels which the fond gnome had prepared forher. Her golden hair was braided and crowned with myrtle blossoms, andher flowing veil sparkled with gems. In these magnificent garments shewent to meet the gnome upon the great terrace.'Loveliest of maidens,' he stammered, bowing low before her, 'let megaze into your dear eyes, and read in them that you will no longerrefuse my love, but will make me the happiest being the sun shinesupon.'So saying he would have drawn aside her veil. but the princess only heldit more closely about her.'Your constancy has overcome me,' she said. 'I can no longer opposeyour wishes. But believe my words, and suffer this veil still to hide myblushes and tears.''Why tears, beloved one?' cried the gnome anxiously. 'every tear ofyours falls upon my heart like a drop of molten gold. Greatly as Idesire your love, I do not ask a sacrifice.''Ah!' cried the false princess, 'why do you misunderstand my tears? Myheart answers to your tenderness, and yet I am fearful. A wife cannotalways charm, and though YOU will never alter, the beauty of mortalsis as a flower that fades. How can I be sure that you will always be asloving and charming as you are now?''Ask some proof, sweetheart,' said he. 'Put my obedience and my patienceto some test by which you can judge of my unalterable love.''Be it so,' answered the crafty maiden. 'Then give me just one proof ofyour goodness. Go! count the turnips in yonder meadow. My wedding feastmust not lack guests. They shall provide me with bride maidens too. Butbeware lest you deceive me, and do not miss a single one. That shall bethe test of your truth towards me.'Unwilling as the gnome was to lose sight of his beautiful bride for amoment, he obeyed her commands without delay, and hurried off to beginhis task. He skipped along among the turnips as nimble as a grasshopper,and had soon counted them all. but, to be quite certain that he had madeno mistake, he thought he would just run over them again. This time, tohis great annoyance, the number was different. so he reckoned them forthe third time, but now the number was not the same as either of theprevious ones! And this was hardly to be wondered at, as his mind wasfull of the princess's pretty looks and words.As for the maiden, no sooner was her deluded lover fairly out of sightthan she began to prepare for flight. She had a fine fresh turnip hiddenclose at hand, which she changed into a spirited horse, all saddled andbridled, and, springing upon its back, she galloped away over hill anddale till she reached the Thorny Valley, and flung herself into the armsof her beloved Prince Ratibor.Meanwhile the toiling gnome went through his task over and over againtill his back ached and his head swam, and he could no longer put twoand two together. but as he felt tolerably certain of the exact numberof turnips in the field, big and little together, he hurried back eagerto prove to his beloved one what a delightful and submissive husbandhe would be. He felt very well satisfied with himself as he crossed themossy lawn to the place where he had left her. but, alas! she was nolonger there.He searched every thicket and path, he looked behind every tree, andgazed into every pond, but without success. then he hastened into thepalace and rushed from room to room, peering into every hole andcorner and calling her by name. but only echo answered in the marblehalls there was neither voice nor footstep.Then he began to perceive that something was amiss, and, throwing offthe mortal form that encumbered him, he flew out of the palace, andsoared high into the air, and saw the fugitive princess in the fardistance just as the swift horse carried her across the boundary of hisdominions.Furiously did the enraged gnome fling two great clouds together, andhurl a thunderbolt after the flying maiden, splintering the rockybarriers which had stood a thousand years. But his fury was vain, thethunderclouds melted away into a soft mist, and the gnome, after flyingabout for a while in despair, bewailing to the four winds his unhappyfate, went sorrowfully back to the palace, and stole once more throughevery room, with many sighs and lamentations. He passed through thegardens which for him had lost their charm, and the sight of theprincess's footprints on the golden sand of the pathway renewed hisgrief. All was lonely, empty, sorrowful. and the forsaken gnome resolvedthat he would have no more dealings with such false creatures as he hadfound men to be.Thereupon he stamped three times upon the earth, and the magic palace,with all its treasures, vanished away into the nothingness out of whichhe had called it. and the gnome fled once more to the depths of hisunderground kingdom.While all this was happening, Prince Ratibor was hurrying away with hisprize to a place of safety. With great pomp and triumph he restored thelovely princess to her father, and was then and there married to her,and took her back with him to his own castle.But long after she was dead, and her children too, the villagers wouldtell the tale of her imprisonment underground, as they sat carving woodin the winter nights.