See De Sacy, Relation de l'Egypte par Abd allatif, pp.381 et seq.. and Quatremere, Histoire des Sultans Mamlouks,vol. i. pp. 109 et seq., a work of very great value, especiallyfor the notes.In his "Khia." description of the principal street ofCairo, and its branches (MS. in my possession).In his "Khia." description of the principal street ofCairo, and its branches. and account of the Khans.Idem. account of the eysareeyehs. and description of theprincipal street of Cairo, and its branches.The orthography of this celebrated name is disputed. andI may therefore mention that I have found it written Khall'kanin an Arabic MS. of the year of the Flight 843. and in manyMSS. in which the reduplication of the _l_ is not marked, thevowel _a_ is given to the first syllable. According to thegeneral opinion of the learned in Cairo, it is Khillikan.In his "Khia." description of the principal street ofCairo.In his "Khia." description of the suburbs or environ(awaee) of Cairo (The latest date in that work, as far as Iam aware, is found in the account of the mosques, in twoseparate places. It is that of the year of the Flight 843 (inthe edition recently printed at Cairo). and, as El Mareezeedied in the year 845, its occurrence is curious as shewing thelikelihood that he continued the composition of his mostcelebrated work until very near his death. Indeed, it isprobable that he never finished it. the seventh and lastsection, which is mentioned in the Preface, being wanting inall the MSS. This date, in each instance, may be an insertionby a later hand. but the author's History of the Sulans ofEgypt was brought down, it is said by himself, to the yearpreceding his death. ED.)Marginal note, in my copy of the original, by the sheykhMohammad 'Eiyad.Marginal note, in my copy of the original, by the sheykhMoammad 'Eiyad.Idem.A specimen of this mode of chanting is given in my workon the Modern Egyptians, vol. ii. end of chap. v.El Mareezee's "Khia." account of the hospitals.ur an, ch. v. v. 49."Modern Egyptians," vol. i. ch. xiii.It would not be necessary to remark on this explanationof a curious custom if it had not been lately contradicted. Mr.Lane derived his information from Arab authors, and from hisfriends in Cairo. but D'Ohsson, also, says, in his TableauGeneral de l'Empire Othoman, Code Religieux, livre ii. ch. iv.(and the authority of the works from which he translated willhardly be questioned), that the Khaeeb "est meme tenu dereciter tout le _Khouthbe_ sur la chaire, _Minnber_, ens'appuyant de la main sur la garde d'un sabre, dans tous lestemples qui ont ete pris avec la ville par la force des armes."The writer alluded to thinks that the use of the sword atMekkeh proves Mr. Lane to be in error. whereas the custom isobserved at Mekkeh because it was taken in war. but not atEl Medeeneh because this city was not so taken. ED.The iameh see Note 24 to Chapter iv.For a more full account of the Friday prayers, see mywork on the Modern Egyptians, vol. i. ch. iii.Ammianus Marcellinus, lib. xxii.See Note 6 to Chapter iv.D'Herbelot, Bibl. Or., article "Cadhi."