engraved some Hebrew names, marked with it a circle in the midst of thepalace. Within this she wrote certain names and talismans, and then shepronounced invocations, and uttered unintelligible words. and soon thepalace around us became immersed in gloom to such a degree, that wethought the whole world was overspread. and lo, the 'Efreet appearedbefore us in a most hideous shape, with hands like winnowing forks, andlegs like masts, and eyes like burning torches. so that we wereterrified at him. The King's daughter exclaimed, No welcome to thee! towhich the 'Efreet, assuming the form of a lion, replied, Thou traitress,how is it that thou hast broken thine oath? Did we not swear that wewould not oppose one another? Thou wretch, said she, when didst thoureceive an oath? The 'Efreet, still in the form of a lion, thenexclaimed, Take what awaiteth thee! and, opening his mouth, rushed uponthe lady: but she instantly plucked a hair from her head and mutteredwith her lips, whereupon the hair became converted into a piercingsword, with which she struck the lion, and he was cleft in twain by theblow. but his head became changed into a scorpion. The lady immediatelytransformed herself into an enormous serpent, and crept after theexecrable wretch in the shape of a scorpion, and a sharp contest ensuedbetween them. after which, the scorpion became an eagle, and theserpent, changing to a vulture, pursued the eagle for a length of time.The latter then transformed himself into a black cat, and the King'sdaughter became a wolf, and they fought together long and fiercely, tillthe cat, seeing himself overcome, changed himself into a large redpomegranate, which fell into a pool. but, the wolf pursuing it, itascended into the air, and then fell upon the pavement of the palace,and broke in pieces, its grains becoming scattered, each apart from theothers, and all spread about the whole space of ground enclosed by thepalace. The wolf, upon this, transformed itself into a cock, in order topick up the grains, and not leave one of them. but, according to thedecree of fate, one grain remained hidden by the side of the pool of thefountain. The cock began to cry, and flapped its wings, and made a signto us with its beak. but we understood not what it would say. It thenuttered at us such a cry, that we thought the palace had fallen downupon us. and it ran about the whole of the ground, until it saw thegrain that had lain hid by the side of the pool, when it pounced uponit, to pick it up. but it fell into the midst of the water, and becametransformed into a fish, and sank into the water. upon which the cockbecame a fish of a larger size, and plunged in after the other. For awhile it was absent from our sight. but, at length, we heard a loud cry,and trembled at the sound. after which, the 'Efreet rose as a flame offire, casting fire from his mouth, and fire and smoke from his eyes andnostrils: the King's daughter also became as a vast body of fire. and wewould have plunged into the water from fear of our being burnt anddestroyed. but suddenly the 'Efreet cried out from within the fire, andcame towards us upon the leewan, blowing fire at our faces.The lady, however, overtook him, and blew fire in like manner in hisface. and some sparks struck us both from her and from him: her sparksdid us no harm. but one from him struck me in my eye, and destroyed it,I being still in the form of an ape. and a spark from him reached theface of the King, and burned the lower half, with his beard and mouth,and struck out his lower teeth: another spark also fell upon the breastof the eunuch. who was burnt, and died immediately. We expecteddestruction, and gave up all hope of preserving our lives. but while wewere in this state, a voice exclaimed, God is most great! God is mostgreat! He hath conquered and aided, and abandoned the denier of thefaith of Moammad, the chief of mankind! The person fromwhom this voice proceeded was the King's daughter: she had burnt the'Efreet. and when we looked towards him, we perceived that he had becomea heap of ashes.