the young Student. "but in all my garden there is no red rose."From her nest in the holm oak tree the Nightingale heard him, and shelooked out through the leaves, and wondered."No red rose in all my garden!" he cried, and his beautiful eyes filledwith tears. "Ah, on what little things does happiness depend! I haveread all that the wise men have written, and all the secrets ofphilosophy are mine, yet for want of a red rose is my life madewretched.""Here at last is a true lover," said the Nightingale. "Night after nighthave I sung of him, though I knew him not: night after night have I toldhis story to the stars, and now I see him. His hair is dark as thehyacinth blossom, and his lips are red as the rose of his desire. butpassion has made his face like pale ivory, and sorrow has set her sealupon his brow.""The Prince gives a ball to morrow night," murmured the young Student,"and my love will be of the company. If I bring her a red rose she willdance with me till dawn. If I bring her a red rose, I shall hold her inmy arms, and she will lean her head upon my shoulder, and her hand willbe clasped in mine. But there is no red rose in my garden, so I shallsit lonely, and she will pass me by. She will have no heed of me, and myheart will break.""Here indeed is the true lover," said the Nightingale. "What I sing of,he sufferswhat is joy to me, to him is pain. Surely Love is a wonderfulthing. It is more precious than emeralds, and dearer than fine opals.Pearls and pomegranates cannot buy it, nor is it set forth in themarketplace. It may not be purchased of the merchants, nor can it beweighed out in the balance for gold.""The musicians will sit in their gallery," said the young Student, "andplay upon their stringed instruments, and my love will dance to the soundof the harp and the violin. She will dance so lightly that her feet willnot touch the floor, and the courtiers in their gay dresses will thronground her. But with me she will not dance, for I have no red rose togive her". and he flung himself down on the grass, and buried his face inhis hands, and wept."Why is he weeping?" asked a little Green Lizard, as he ran past him withhis tail in the air."Why, indeed?" said a Butterfly, who was fluttering about after asunbeam."Why, indeed?" whispered a Daisy to his neighbour, in a soft, low voice."He is weeping for a red rose," said the Nightingale."For a red rose?" they cried. "how very ridiculous!" and the littleLizard, who was something of a cynic, laughed outright.But the Nightingale understood the secret of the Student's sorrow, andshe sat silent in the oak tree, and thought about the mystery of Love.Suddenly she spread her brown wings for flight, and soared into the air.She passed through the grove like a shadow, and like a shadow she sailedacross the garden.In the centre of the grass plot was standing a beautiful Rose tree, andwhen she saw it she flew over to it, and lit upon a spray."Give me a red rose," she cried, "and I will sing you my sweetest song."But the Tree shook its head."My roses are white," it answered. "as white as the foam of the sea, andwhiter than the snow upon the mountain. But go to my brother who growsround the old sun dial, and perhaps he will give you what you want."So the Nightingale flew over to the Rose tree that was growing round theold sun dial."Give me a red rose," she cried, "and I will sing you my sweetest song."But the Tree shook its head."My roses are yellow," it answered. "as yellow as the hair of themermaiden who sits upon an amber throne, and yellower than the daffodilthat blooms in the meadow before the mower comes with his scythe. But goto my brother who grows beneath the Student's window, and perhaps he willgive you what you want."So the Nightingale flew over to the Rose tree that was growing beneaththe Student's window."Give me a red rose," she cried, "and I will sing you my sweetest song."But the Tree shook its head."My roses are red," it answered, "as red as the feet of the dove, andredder than the great fans of coral that wave and wave in theocean cavern. But the winter has chilled my veins, and the frost hasnipped my buds, and the storm has broken my branches, and I shall have noroses at all this year.""One red rose is all I want," cried the Nightingale, "only one red rose!Is there no way by which I can get it?""There is a way," answered the Tree. "but it is so terrible that I darenot tell it to you.""Tell it to me," said the Nightingale, "I am not afraid.""If you want a red rose," said the Tree, "you must build it out of musicby moonlight, and stain it with your own heart's blood. You must sing tome with your breast against a thorn. All night long you must sing to me,and the thorn must pierce your heart, and your life blood must flow intomy veins, and become mine.""Death is a great price to pay for a red rose," cried the Nightingale,"and Life is very dear to all. It is pleasant to sit in the green wood,and to watch the Sun in his chariot of gold, and the Moon in her chariotof pearl. Sweet is the scent of the hawthorn, and sweet are thebluebells that hide in the valley, and the heather that blows on thehill. Yet Love is better than Life, and what is the heart of a birdcompared to the heart of a man?"So she spread her brown wings for flight, and soared into the air. Sheswept over the garden like a shadow, and like a shadow she sailed throughthe grove.The young Student was still lying on the grass, where she had left him,and the tears were not yet dry in his beautiful eyes."Be happy," cried the Nightingale, "be happy. you shall have your redrose. I will build it out of music by moonlight, and stain it with myown heart's blood. All that I ask of you in return is that you will be atrue lover, for Love is wiser than Philosophy, though she is wise, andmightier than Power, though he is mighty. Flame coloured are his wings,and coloured like flame is his body. His lips are sweet as honey, andhis breath is like frankincense."The Student looked up from the grass, and listened, but he could notunderstand what the Nightingale was saying to him, for he only knew thethings that are written down in books.But the Oak tree understood, and felt sad, for he was very fond of thelittle Nightingale who had built her nest in his branches."Sing me one last song," he whispered. "I shall feel very lonely when youare gone."So the Nightingale sang to the Oak tree, and her voice was like waterbubbling from a silver jar.When she had finished her song the Student got up, and pulled a note bookand a lead pencil out of his pocket."She has form," he said to himself, as he walked away through thegrove"that cannot be denied to her. but has she got feeling? I amafraid not. In fact, she is like most artists. she is all style, withoutany sincerity. She would not sacrifice herself for others. She thinksmerely of music, and everybody knows that the arts are selfish. Still,it must be admitted that she has some beautiful notes in her voice. Whata pity it is that they do not mean anything, or do any practical good."And he went into his room, and lay down on his little pallet bed, andbegan to think of his love. and, after a time, he fell asleep.And when the Moon shone in the heavens the Nightingale flew to theRose tree, and set her breast against the thorn. All night long she sangwith her breast against the thorn, and the cold crystal Moon leaned downand listened. All night long she sang, and the thorn went deeper anddeeper into her breast, and her life blood ebbed away from her.She sang first of the birth of love in the heart of a boy and a girl.And on the top most spray of the Rose tree there blossomed a marvellousrose, petal following petal, as song followed song. Pale was it, atfirst, as the mist that hangs over the riverpale as the feet of themorning, and silver as the wings of the dawn. As the shadow of a rose ina mirror of silver, as the shadow of a rose in a water pool, so was therose that blossomed on the topmost spray of the Tree.But the Tree cried to the Nightingale to press closer against the thorn."Press closer, little Nightingale," cried the Tree, "or the Day will comebefore the rose is finished."So the Nightingale pressed closer against the thorn, and louder andlouder grew her song, for she sang of the birth of passion in the soul ofa man and a maid.And a delicate flush of pink came into the leaves of the rose, like theflush in the face of the bridegroom when he kisses the lips of the bride.But the thorn had not yet reached her heart, so the rose's heart remainedwhite, for only a Nightingale's heart's blood can crimson the heart of arose.And the Tree cried to the Nightingale to press closer against the thorn."Press closer, little Nightingale," cried the Tree, "or the Day will comebefore the rose is finished."So the Nightingale pressed closer against the thorn, and the thorntouched her heart, and a fierce pang of pain shot through her. Bitter,bitter was the pain, and wilder and wilder grew her song, for she sang ofthe Love that is perfected by Death, of the Love that dies not in thetomb.And the marvellous rose became crimson, like the rose of the eastern sky.Crimson was the girdle of petals, and crimson as a ruby was the heart.But the Nightingale's voice grew fainter, and her little wings began tobeat, and a film came over her eyes. Fainter and fainter grew her song,and she felt something choking her in her throat.Then she gave one last burst of music. The white Moon heard it, and sheforgot the dawn, and lingered on in the sky. The red rose heard it, andit trembled all over with ecstasy, and opened its petals to the coldmorning air. Echo bore it to her purple cavern in the hills, and wokethe sleeping shepherds from their dreams. It floated through the reedsof the river, and they carried its message to the sea."Look, look!" cried the Tree, "the rose is finished now". but theNightingale made no answer, for she was lying dead in the long grass,with the thorn in her heart.And at noon the Student opened his window and looked out."Why, what a wonderful piece of luck!" he cried. "here is a red rose! Ihave never seen any rose like it in all my life. It is so beautiful thatI am sure it has a long Latin name". and he leaned down and plucked it.Then he put on his hat, and ran up to the Professor's house with the rosein his hand.The daughter of the Professor was sitting in the doorway winding bluesilk on a reel, and her little dog was lying at her feet."You said that you would dance with me if I brought you a red rose,"cried the Student. "Here is the reddest rose in all the world. You willwear it to night next your heart, and as we dance together it will tellyou how I love you."But the girl frowned."I am afraid it will not go with my dress," she answered. "and, besides,the Chamberlain's nephew has sent me some real jewels, and everybodyknows that jewels cost far more than flowers.""Well, upon my word, you are very ungrateful," said the Student angrily.and he threw the rose into the street, where it fell into the gutter, anda cart wheel went over it."Ungrateful!" said the girl. "I tell you what, you are very rude. and,after all, who are you? Only a Student. Why, I don't believe you haveeven got silver buckles to your shoes as the Chamberlain's nephew has".and she got up from her chair and went into the house."What a silly thing Love is," said the Student as he walked away. "Itis not half as useful as Logic, for it does not prove anything, and it isalways telling one of things that are not going to happen, and making onebelieve things that are not true. In fact, it is quite unpractical, and,as in this age to be practical is everything, I shall go back toPhilosophy and study Metaphysics."So he returned to his room and pulled out a great dusty book, and beganto read.