Once upon a time a shepherd was taking his flock out to pasture, when hefound a little baby lying in a meadow, left there by some wicked person,who thought it was too much trouble to look after it. The shepherd wasfond of children, so he took the baby home with him and gave it plentyof milk, and by the time the boy was fourteen he could tear up oaksas if they were weeds. Then Paul, as the shepherd had called him, grewtired of living at home, and went out into the world to try his luck.He walked on for many miles, seeing nothing that surprised him, but inan open space of the wood he was astonished at finding a man combingtrees as another man would comb flax.'Good morning, friend,' said Paul. 'upon my word, you must be a strongman!'The man stopped his work and laughed. 'I am Tree Comber,' he answeredproudly. 'and the greatest wish of my life is to wrestle with ShepherdPaul.''May all your wishes be fulfilled as easily, for I am Shepherd Paul,and can wrestle with you at once,' replied the lad. and he seized TreeComber and flung him with such force to the ground that he sank upto his knees in the earth. However, in a moment he was up again, andcatching hold of Paul, threw him so that he sank up to his waist. butthen it was Paul's turn again, and this time the man was buried up tohis neck. 'That is enough,' cried he. 'I see you are a smart fellow, letus become friends.''Very good,' answered Paul, and they continued their journey together.By and by they reached a man who was grinding stones to powder in hishands, as if they had been nuts.'Good morning,' said Paul politely. 'upon my word, you must be a strongfellow!''I am Stone Crusher,' answered the man, and the greatest wish of my lifeis to wrestle with Shepherd Paul.''May all your wishes be as easily fulfilled, for I am Shepherd Paul, andwill wrestle with you at once,' and the sport began. After a short timethe man declared himself beaten, and begged leave to go with them. sothey all three travelled together.A little further on they came upon a man who was kneading iron as ifit had been dough. 'Good morning,' said Paul, 'you must be a strongfellow.''I am Iron Kneader, and should like to fight Shepherd Paul,' answeredhe.'Let us begin at once then,' replied Paul. and on this occasion also,Paul got the better of his foe, and they all four continued theirjourney.At midday they entered a forest, and Paul stopped suddenly. 'We threewill go and look for game,' he said, 'and you, Tree Comber, will staybehind and prepare a good supper for us.' So Tree Comber set to work toboil and roast, and when dinner was nearly ready, a little dwarf witha pointed beard strolled up to the place. 'What are you cooking?' askedhe, 'give me some of it.''I'll give you some on your back, if you like,' answered Tree Comberrudely. The dwarf took no notice, but waited patiently till the dinnerwas cooked, then suddenly throwing Tree Comber on the ground, he ateup the contents of the saucepan and vanished. Tree Comber felt ratherashamed of himself, and set about boiling some more vegetables, butthey were still very hard when the hunters returned, and though theycomplained of his bad cooking, he did not tell them about the dwarf.Next day Stone Crusher was left behind, and after him Iron Kneader, andeach time the dwarf appeared, and they fared no better than Tree Comberhad done. The fourth day Paul said to them: 'My friends, there must besome reason why your cooking has always been so bad, now you shall goand hunt and I will stay behind.' So they went off, amusing themselvesby thinking what was in store for Paul.He set to work at once, and had just got all his vegetables simmering inthe pot when the dwarf appeared as before, and asked to have some of thestew. 'Be off,' cried Paul, snatching up the saucepan as he spoke. Thedwarf tried to get hold of his collar, but Paul seized him by thebeard, and tied him to a big tree so that he could not stir, and wenton quietly with his cooking. The hunters came back early, longing to seehow Paul had got on, and, to their surprise, dinner was quite ready forthem.'You are great useless creatures,' said he, 'who couldn't even outwitthat little dwarf. When we have finished supper I will show you what Ihave done with him!' But when they reached the place where Paul had leftthe dwarf, neither he nor the tree was to be seen, for the little fellowhad pulled it up by the roots and run away, dragging it after him. Thefour friends followed the track of the tree and found that it ended ina deep hole. 'He must have gone down here,' said Paul, 'and I will goafter him. See! there is a basket that will do for me to sit in, and acord to lower me with. But when I pull the cord again, lose no time indrawing the basket up.'And he stepped into the basket, which was lowered by his friends.At last it touched the ground and he jumped out and looked about him. Hewas in a beautiful valley, full of meadows and streams, with a splendidcastle standing by. As the door was open he walked in, but a lovelymaiden met him and implored him to go back, for the owner of the castlewas a dragon with six heads, who had stolen her from her home andbrought her down to this underground spot. But Paul refused to listen toall her entreaties, and declared that he was not afraid of the dragon,and did not care how many heads he had. and he sat down calmly to waitfor him.In a little while the dragon came in, and all the long teeth in his sixheads chattered with anger at the sight of the stranger.'I am Shepherd Paul,' said the young man, 'and I have come to fight you,and as I am in a hurry we had better begin at once.''Very good,' answered the dragon. 'I am sure of my supper, but let ushave a mouthful of something first, just to give us an appetite.'Whereupon he began to eat some huge boulders as if they had been cakes,and when he had quite finished, he offered Paul one. Paul was not fondof boulders, but he took a wooden knife and cut one in two, thenhe snatched up both halves in his hands and threw them with all hisstrength at the dragon, so that two out of the six heads were smashedin. At this the dragon, with a mighty roar, rushed upon Paul, but hesprang on one side, and with a swinging blow cut off two of the otherheads. Then, seizing the monster by the neck, he dashed the remainingheads against the rock.When the maiden heard that the dragon was dead, she thanked herdeliverer with tears in her eyes, but told him that her two youngersisters were in the power of dragons still fiercer and more horriblethan this one. He vowed that his sword should never rest in its sheathtill they were set free, and bade the girl come with him, and show himthe way.The maiden gladly consented to go with him, but first she gave him agolden rod, and bade him strike the castle with it. He did so, and itinstantly changed into a golden apple, which he put in his pocket. Afterthat, they started on their search.They had not gone far before they reached the castle where the secondgirl was confined by the power of the dragon with twelve heads, who hadstolen her from her home. She was overjoyed at the sight of her sisterand of Paul, and brought him a shirt belonging to the dragon, which madeevery one who wore it twice as strong as they were before. Scarcely hadhe put it on when the dragon came back, and the fight began. Long andhard was the struggle, but Paul's sword and his shirt helped him, andthe twelve heads lay dead upon the ground.Then Paul changed the castle into an apple, which he put into hispocket, and set out with the two girls in search of the third castle.It was not long before they found it, and within the walls was the thirdsister, who was younger and prettier than either of the other two. Herhusband had eighteen heads, but when he quitted the lower regions forthe surface of the earth, he left them all at home except one, which hechanged for the head of a little dwarf, with a pointed beard.The moment that Paul knew that this terrible dragon was no other thanthe dwarf whom he had tied to the tree, he longed more than ever to flyat his throat. But the thought of the eighteen heads warned him to becareful, and the third sister brought him a silk shirt which would makehim ten times stronger than he was before.He had scarcely put it on, when the whole castle began to shakeviolently, and the dragon flew up the steps into the hall.'Well, my friend, so we meet once more! Have you forgotten me? I amShepherd Paul, and I have come to wrestle with you, and to free yourwife from your clutches.''Ah, I am glad to see you again,' said the dragon. 'Those were my twobrothers whom you killed, and now your blood shall pay for them.' And hewent into his room to look for his shirt and to drink some magic wine,but the shirt was on Paul's back, and as for the wine, the girl hadgiven a cupful to Paul and then had allowed the rest to run out of thecask.At this the dragon grew rather frightened, but in a moment hadrecollected his eighteen heads, and was bold again.'Come on,' he cried, rearing himself up and preparing to dart all hisheads at once at Paul. But Paul jumped underneath, and gave an upwardcut so that six of the heads went rolling down. They were the best headstoo, and very soon the other twelve lay beside them. Then Paul changedthe castle into an apple, and put it in his pocket. Afterwards he andthe three girls set off for the opening which led upwards to the earth.The basket was still there, dangling from the rope, but it was only bigenough to hold the three girls, so Paul sent them up, and told them tobe sure and let down the basket for him. Unluckily, at the sight of themaidens' beauty, so far beyond anything they had ever seen, the friendsforgot all about Paul, and carried the girls straight away into a farcountry, so that they were not much better off than before. MeanwhilePaul, mad with rage at the ingratitude of the three sisters, vowed hewould be revenged upon them, and set about finding some way of gettingback to earth. But it was not very easy, and for months, and months, andmonths, he wandered about underground, and, at the end, seemed no nearerto fulfilling his purpose than he was at the beginning.At length, one day, he happened to pass the nest of a huge griffin,who had left her young ones all alone. Just as Paul came along a cloudcontaining fire instead of rain burst overhead, and all the littlegriffins would certainly have been killed had not Paul spread his cloakover the nest and saved them. When their father returned the young onestold him what Paul had done, and he lost no time in flying after Paul,and asking how he could reward him for his goodness.'By carrying me up to the earth,' answered Paul. and the griffin agreed,but first went to get some food to eat on the way, as it was a longjourney.'Now get on my back,' he said to Paul, 'and when I turn my head to theright, cut a slice off the bullock that hangs on that side, and put itin my mouth, and when I turn my head to the left, draw a cupful of winefrom the cask that hangs on that side, and pour it down my throat.'For three days and three nights Paul and the griffin flew upwards, andon the fourth morning it touched the ground just outside the city wherePaul's friends had gone to live. Then Paul thanked him and bade himfarewell, and he returned home again.At first Paul was too tired to do anything but sleep, but as soon ashe was rested he started off in search of the three faithless ones, whoalmost died from fright at the sight of him, for they had thought hewould never come back to reproach them for their wickedness.'You know what to expect,' Paul said to them quietly. 'You shall neversee me again. Off with you!' He next took the three apples out of hispocket and placed them all in the prettiest places he could find. afterwhich he tapped them with his golden rod, and they became castles again.He gave two of the castles to the eldest sisters, and kept the otherfor himself and the youngest, whom he married, and there they are livingstill.