There were two brothers. one was rich, the other poor. However, therich one gave nothing to the poor one, who barely made a living as a graindealer. Things often went so badly for him that he had no bread for hiswife and children.One day he was pushing his cart through the forest when off to the sidehe saw a large bare mountain. He had never seen it before, so he stoppedand looked at it with amazement. While he was standing there he saw twelvetall wild men approaching. Thinking that they were robbers, he pushed hiscart into the thicket, climbed up a tree, and waited to see what wouldhappen.The twelve men went to the mountain and cried out, "Mount Semsi, MountSemsi, open up." The barren mountain immediately separated down themiddle. The twelve men walked into it, and as soon as they were inside itshut.A little while later it opened again, and the men came out carryingheavy sacks on their backs. As soon as they were all back in the daylightthey said, "Mount Semsi, Mount Semsi, close." Then the mountain went backtogether, and the entrance could no longer be seen. Then the twelve menwent away.When they were completely out of sight, the poor man climbed down fromthe tree. He was curious to know what secret was hidden in the mountain,so he went up to it and said, "Mount Semsi, Mount Semsi, open up," andthe mountain opened up for him as well.He went inside, and the entire mountain was a cavern full of silver andgold, and in the back of the cavern there lay great piles of pearls andsparkling jewels, piled up like grain. The poor man did not know what heshould do, whether or not he could take any of these treasures forhimself. At last he filled his pockets with gold, but he left the pearlsand precious stones lying where they were.Upon leaving he too said, "Mount Semsi, Mount Semsi, close," and themountain closed. Then he went home with his cart.He no longer had any cares, for with his gold he could buy bread forhis wife and children, and wine as well. He lived happily and honestly,gave to the poor, and did good for everyone. When he ran out of money hewent to his brother, borrowed a bushel, and got some more money, but didnot touch any of the very valuable things. When he wanted to get some moremoney for the third time he again borrowed the bushel from his brother.However, the rich man had long been envious of his brother's wealth and ofthe fine household that he had furnished for himself. He could notunderstand where the riches came from, and what his brother wanted withthe bushel. Then he thought of a trap. He covered the bottom of the bushelwith pitch, and when he got the bushel back a gold coin was sticking toit.He at once went to his brother and asked him, "What have you beenmeasuring in the bushel?""Wheat and barley," said the poor brother.Then he showed him the gold coin and threatened that if he did not tellthe truth he would bring charges against him before the court. Then thepoor man then told him everything that had happened to him. The rich manimmediately had his wagon hitched up and drove away, intending to dobetter than his brother had done, and to bring back with him quitedifferent treasures.When he came to the mountain he cried out, "Mount Semsi, Mount Semsi,open up."The mountain opened, and he went inside. There lay the riches allbefore him, and for a long time he did not know what he should take holdof first. Finally took as many precious stones as he could carry. Hewanted to carry his load outside, but as his heart and soul were entirelyoccupied with the treasures, he had forgotten the name of the mountain,and cried out, "Mount Simeli, Mount Simeli, open up."But that was not the right name, and the mountain did not move,remaining closed instead. He became frightened, and the longer he thoughtabout it the more he became confused, and all of the treasures were of nouse to him.In the evening the mountain opened up, and the twelve robbers cameinside. When they saw him they laughed and cried out, "Bird, we have youat last. Did you think we did not notice that you came here twice? Wecould not catch you then, this third time you shall not get out again."He cried out, "I wasn't the one. It was my brother!"But however much he begged for his life, and in spite of everythingthat he said, they cut off his head.