Once upon a time a soldier died, leaving a widow and one son. They weredreadfully poor, and at last matters became so bad that they had nothingleft in the house to eat."Mother," said the son, "give me four shillings, and I will go seek myfortune in the wide world.""Alas!" answered the mother, "and where am I, who haven't a farthingwherewith to buy bread, to find four shillings?""There is that old coat of my father's," returned the lad. "Look in thepocket   perchance there is something there."So she looked, and behold! there were six shillings hidden away at thevery bottom of the pocket! "More than I bargained for," quoth the lad,laughing. "See, mother, these two shillings are for you. You can live onthat till I return. the rest will pay my way until I find my fortune."So he set off to find his fortune, and on the way lie saw a tigress,licking her paw, and moaning mournfully. He was just about to run awayfrom the terrible creature, when she called to him faintly, saying, "Goodlad, if you will take out this thorn for me, I shall be forever grateful.""Not I!" answered the lad. "Why, if I begin to pull it out, and it painsyou, you will kill me with a pat of your paw.""No, no!" cried the tigress, "I will turn my face to this tree, and whenthe pain comes I will pat it. "To this the soldier's son agreed. so he pulled out the thorn, and when thepain came the tigress gave the tree such a blow that the trunk split allto pieces. Then she turned towards the soldier's son, and said gratefully,"Take this box as a reward, my son, but do not open it until you havetraveled nine miles."So the soldier's son thanked the tigress, and set off with the box to findhis fortune. Now when he had gone five miles, he felt certain that the boxweighed more than it had at first, and every step he took it seemed togrow heavier and heavier. He tried to struggle on   though it was all hecould do to carry the box   until he had gone about eight miles and aquarter, when his patience gave way."I believe that tigress was a witch, and is playing off her tricks uponme," he cried, "but I will stand this nonsense no longer. Lie there, youwretched old box! Heaven knows what is in you, and I don't care."So saying, he flung the box down on the ground. It burst open with theshock, and out stepped a little old man. He was only one span high, buthis beard was a span and a quarter long, and trailed upon the ground. Thelittle manikin immediately began to stamp about and scold the lad roundlyfor letting the box down so violently."Upon my word!" quoth the soldier's son, scarcely able to restrain a smileat the ridiculous little figure, " but you are weighty for your size, oldgentleman! And what may your name be?""Sir Buzz!" snapped the one span manikin, still stamping about in a greatrage."Upon my word!" quoth the soldier's son once more, "if you are allthe box contained, I am glad I didn't trouble to carry it farther.""That's not polite," snarled the manikin. "Perhaps if you had carried itthe full nine miles you might have found something better. but that'sneither here nor there. I'm good enough for you, at any rate, and willserve you faithfully according to my mistress's orders.""Serve me! Then I wish to goodness you'd serve me with some dinner, for Iam mighty hungry! Here are four shillings to pay for it."No sooner had the soldier's son said this and given the money, than with awhiz! boom! bing! like a big bee, Sir Buzz flew through the air toa confectioner's shop in the nearest town. There he stood, the one spanmanikin, with the span and a quarter beard trailing on the ground, just bythe big preserving pan, and cried in ever so loud a voice, "Ho! ho! SirConfectioner, bring me sweets!"The confectioner looked round the shop, and out of the door, and down thestreet, but could see no one, for tiny Sir Buzz was quite hidden by thepreserving pan. Then the manikin called out louder still, " Ho! ho! SirConfectioner, bring me sweets! " And when the confectioner looked in vainfor his customer, Sir Buzz grew angry, and ran and pinched him on thelegs, and kicked him on the foot, saying, " Impudent knave! do you mean tosay you can't see me? Why, I was standing by the preserving pan allthe time!"The confectioner apologized humbly, and hurried away to bring out his bestsweets for his irritable little customer. Then Sir Buzz chose about ahundredweight of them, and said, "Quick, tie them up in something and givethem into my hand. I'll carry them home.""They will be a good weight, sir," smiled the confectioner."What business is that of yours, I should like to know?" snapped Sir Buzz."Just you do as you're told, and here is your money." So saying he jingledthe four shillings in his pocket."As you please, sir," replied the man cheerfully, as he tied up the sweetsinto a huge bundle and placed it on the little manikin's outstretchedhand, fully expecting him to sink under the weight. when lo! with aboom! bing! he whizzed off with the money still in his pocket.He alighted at a corn chandler's shop, and, standing behind a basket offlour, called out at the top of his voice, "Ho! ho! Sir Chandler, bring meflour!"And when the corn chandler looked round the shop, and out of the window,and down the street, without seeing anybody, the one span manikin, withhis beard trailing on the ground, cried again louder than before, "Ho! ho!Sir Chandler, bring me flour!"Then on receiving no answer, he flew into a violent rage, and ran and bitthe unfortunate corn chandler on the leg, pinched him, and kicked him,saying, "Impudent varlet! Don't pretend you couldn't see me! Why, Iwas standing close beside you behind that basket!"So the corn chandler apologized humbly for his mistake, and asked Sir Buzzhow much flour he wanted."Two hundredweight," replied the manikin. "Two hundredweight, neither morenor less. Tie it up in a bundle, and I'll take it with me.""Your honor has a cart or beast of burden with you, doubtless?" said thechandler, "for two hundredweight is a heavy load.""What's that to you? " shrieked Sir Buzz, stamping his foot, " isn't itenough if I pay for it? " And then he jingled the money in his pocketagain. So the corn chandler tied up the flour in a bundle, and placed itin the manikin's outstretched hand, fully expecting it would crush him,when, with a whiz! Sir Buzz flew off, with the shillings still in hispocket. Boom! bing! boom!The soldier's son was just wondering what had become of his one spanservant, when, with a whir! the little fellow alighted beside him, andwiping his face with his handkerchief, as if he were dreadfully hot andtired, said thoughtfully, "Now I do hope I've brought enough, but you menhave such terrible appetites!""More than enough, I should say," laughed the lad, looking at the hugebundles.Then Sir Buzz cooked the girdle cakes, and the soldier's son ate three ofthem and a handful of sweets. but the one span manikin gobbled up all therest, saying at each mouthful, "You men have such terrible appetites  such terrible appetites!"After that, the soldier's son and his servant Sir Buzz traveled ever sofar, until they came to the king's city. Now the king had a daughtercalled Princess Blossom, who was so lovely, and tender, and slim, andfair, that she only weighed five flowers. Every morning she was weighed ingolden scales, and the scale always turned when the fifth flower was putin, neither less nor more.Now it so happened that the soldier's son by chance caught a glimpse ofthe lovely, tender, slim, and fair Princess Blossom, and, of course, hefell desperately in love with her. He would neither sleep nor eat hisdinner, and did nothing all day long but say to his faithful manikin, "Oh,dearest Sir Buzz! oh, kind Sir Buzz!   carry me to the Princess Blossom,that I may see and speak to her.""Carry you!" snapped the little fellow scornfully. "That's a likely story!Why, you're ten times as big as I am. You should carry me! "Nevertheless, when the soldier's son begged and prayed, growing pale andpining away with thinking of the Princess Blossom, Sir Buzz, who had akind heart, was moved, and bade the lad sit on his hand. Then with atremendous boom! bing! boom! they whizzed away and were in thepalace in a second. Being nighttime, the Princess was asleep. neverthelessthe booming wakened her and she was quite frightened to see a handsomeyoung man kneeling beside her. She began of course to scream, but stoppedat once when the soldier's son with the greatest politeness, and in themost elegant of language, begged her not to be alarmed. And after thatthey talked together about everything delightful, while Sir Buzz stood atthe door and did sentry. but he stood a brick up on end first, so that hemight not seem to pry upon the young people.Now when the dawn was just breaking, the soldier's son and PrincessBlossom, wearied of talking, fell asleep. whereupon Sir Buzz, being afaithful servant, said to himself, "Now what is to be done? If my masterremains here asleep, someone will discover him, and he will be killed assure as my name is Buzz. but if I wake him, ten to one he will refuse togo."So without more ado he put his hand under the bed, and bing! boom!carried it into a large garden outside the town. There he set it down inthe shade of the biggest tree, and pulling up the next biggest one by theroots, threw it over his shoulder, and marched up and down keeping guard.Before long the whole town was in a commotion, because the PrincessBlossom had been carried off, and all the world and his wife turned out tolook for her. By and by the one eyed chief constable came to the gardengate."What do you want here?" cried valiant Sir Buzz, making passes at him withthe tree.The chief constable with his one eye could see nothing save the branches,but he replied sturdily, "I want the Princess Blossom!""I'll blossom you! Get out of my garden, will you?" shrieked theone span manikin, with his one and quarter span beard trailing on theground. and with that he belabored the constable's pony so hard with thetree that it bolted away, nearly throwing its rider.The poor man went straight to the king, saying, " Your majesty! I amconvinced your majesty's daughter, the Princess Blossom, is in yourmajesty's garden, just outside the town, as there is a tree there whichfights terribly."Upon this the king summoned all his horses and men, and going to thegarden tried to get in. but Sir Buzz behind the tree routed them all, forhalf were killed, and the rest ran away. The noise of the battle, however,awoke the young couple, and as they were now convinced they could nolonger exist apart, they determined to fly together. So when the fight wasover, the soldier's son, the Princess Blossom, and Sir Buzz set out to seethe world.Now the soldier's son was so enchanted with his good luck in winning theprincess, that he said to Sir Buzz, " My fortune is made already. so Ishan't want you anymore, and you can go back to your mistress.""Pooh!" said Sir Buzz. "Young people always think so. however, have ityour own way, only take this hair out of my beard, and if you should getinto trouble, just burn it in the fire. I'll come to your aid."So Sir Buzz boomed off, and the soldier's son and the Princess Blossomlived and traveled together very happily, until at last they lost theirway in a forest, and wandered about for some time without any food. Whenthey were nearly starving, a Brahman found them, and hearing their storysaid, "Alas! you poor children! Come home with me, and I will give yousomething to eat."Now had he said, "I will eat you," it would have been much nearer themark, for he was no Brahman, but a dreadful vampire, who loved to devourhandsome young men and slender girls. But, knowing nothing of all this,the couple went home with him quite cheerfully. He was most polite, andwhen they arrived at his house, said, "Please get ready whatever you wantto eat, for I have no cook. Here are my keys. open all my cupboards savethe one with the golden key. Meanwhile I will go and gather firewood."Then the Princess Blossom began to prepare the food, while the soldier'sson opened all the cupboards. In them he saw lovely jewels, and dresses,and cups and platters, such bags of gold and silver, that his curiositygot the better of his discretion, and, regardless of the Brahman'swarning, he said, "I will see what wonderful thing is hidden in thecupboard with the golden key." So he opened it, and lo! it was full ofhuman skulls, picked quite clean, and beautifully polished. At thisdreadful sight the soldier's son flew back to the Princess Blossom, andsaid, "We are lost! we are lost! This is no Brahman, but a horridvampire!"At that moment they heard him at the door, and the princess, who was verybrave and kept her wits about her, had barely time to thrust the magichair into the fire, before the vampire, with sharp teeth and fierce eyes,appeared. But at the selfsame moment a boom! boom! binging noisewas heard in the air, coming nearer and nearer. Whereupon the vampire, whoknew very well who his enemy was, changed into a heavy rain pouring downin torrents, hoping thus to drown Sir Buzz, but he changed into thestorm wind beating back the rain. Then the vampire changed to a dove, butSir Buzz, pursuing it as a hawk, pressed it so hard that it had barelytime to change into a rose, and drop into King Indra's lap as he sat inhis celestial court listening to the singing of some dancing girls.Then Sir Buzz, quick as thought, changed into an old musician, andstanding beside the bard who was thrumming the guitar, said, "Brother, youare tired. let me play."And he played so wonderfully, and sang with such piercing sweetness, thatKing Indra said, "What shall I give you as a reward? Name what you please,and it shall be yours."Then Sir Buzz said, " I only ask the rose that is in your Majesty's lap.""I had rather you asked more, or less," replied king Indra. "It is but arose, yet it fell from heaven. nevertheless it is yours."So saying, he threw the rose towards the musician, and lo! the petals fellin a shower on the ground. Sir Buzz went down on his knees and instantlygathered them up. but one petal escaping, changed into a mouse. WhereuponSir Buzz, with the speed of lightning, turned into a cat, which caught andgobbled up the mouse.Now all this time the Princess Blossom and the soldier's son, shiveringand shaking, were awaiting the issue of the combat in the vampire's hut.when suddenly, with a bing! boom! Sir Buzz arrived victorious,shook his head, and said, "You two had better go home, for you are not fitto take care of yourselves."Then he gathered together all the jewels and gold in one hand, placed thePrincess and the soldier's son in the other, and whizzed away home, towhere the poor mother   who all this time had been living on the twoshillings   was delighted to see them. Then with a louder boom! bing!boom! than usual, Sir Buzz, without even waiting for thanks, whizzedout of sight, and was never seen or heard of again.But the soldier's son and the Princess Blossom lived happily ever after.