A poor widow once lived in a little cottage. In front of the cottage wasa garden, in which were growing two rose trees. one of these bore whiteroses, and the other red.She had two children, who resembled the rose trees. One was calledSnow White, and the other Rose Red. and they were as religious andloving, busy and untiring, as any two children ever were.Snow White was more gentle, and quieter than her sister, who likedbetter skipping about the fields, seeking flowers, and catching summerbirds. while Snow White stayed at home with her mother, either helpingher in her work, or, when that was done, reading aloud.The two children had the greatest affection the one for the other. Theywere always seen hand in hand. and should Snow White say to her sister,"We will never separate," the other would reply, "Not while we live,"the mother adding, "That which one has, let her always share with theother."They constantly ran together in the woods, collecting ripe berries. butnot a single animal would have injured them. quite the reverse, they allfelt the greatest esteem for the young creatures. The hare came to eatparsley from their hands, the deer grazed by their side, the stagbounded past them unheeding. the birds, likewise, did not stir from thebough, but sang in entire security. No mischance befell them. ifbenighted in the wood, they lay down on the moss to repose and sleeptill the morning. and their mother was satisfied as to their safety, andfelt no fear about them.Once, when they had spent the night in the wood, and the bright sunriseawoke them, they saw a beautiful child, in a snow white robe, shininglike diamonds, sitting close to the spot where they had reposed. Shearose when they opened their eyes, and looked kindly at them. but saidno word, and passed from their sight into the wood. When the childrenlooked around they saw they had been sleeping on the edge of aprecipice, and would surely have fallen over if they had gone forwardtwo steps further in the darkness. Their mother said the beautiful childmust have been the angel who keeps watch over good children.Snow White and Rose Red kept their mother's cottage so clean that itgave pleasure only to look in. In summer time Rose Red attended to thehouse, and every morning, before her mother awoke, placed by her bed abouquet which had in it a rose from each of the rose trees. Inwinter time Snow White set light to the fire, and put on the kettle,after polishing it until it was like gold for brightness. In theevening, when snow was falling, her mother would bid her bolt the door,and then, sitting by the hearth, the good widow would read aloud to themfrom a big book while the little girls were spinning. Close by them laya lamb, and a white pigeon, with its head tucked under its wing, was ona perch behind.One evening, as they were all sitting cosily together like this, therewas a knock at the door, as if someone wished to come in."Make haste, Rose Red!" said her mother. "open the door. it is surelysome traveller seeking shelter." Rose Red accordingly pulled back thebolt, expecting to see some poor man. But it was nothing of the kind. itwas a bear, that thrust his big, black head in at the open door.Rose Red cried out and sprang back, the lamb bleated, the dove flutteredher wings, and Snow White hid herself behind her mother's bed. The bearbegan speaking, and said, "Do not be afraid. I will not do you any harm.I am half frozen and would like to warm myself a little at your fire.""Poor bear!" the mother replied. "come in and lie by the fire. only becareful that your hair is not burnt." Then she called Snow White andRose Red, telling them that the bear was kind, and would not harm them.They came, as she bade them, and presently the lamb and the dove drewnear also without fear."Children," begged the bear. "knock some of the snow off my coat." Sothey brought the broom and brushed the bear's coat quite clean.After that he stretched himself out in front of the fire, and pleasedhimself by growling a little, only to show that he was happy andcomfortable. Before long they were all quite good friends, and thechildren began to play with their unlooked for visitor, pulling histhick fur, or placing their feet on his back, or rolling him over andover. Then they took a slender hazel twig, using it upon his thick coat,and they laughed when he growled. The bear permitted them to amusethemselves in this way, only occasionally calling out, when it went alittle too far, "Children, spare me an inch of life."When it was night, and all were making ready to go to bed, the widowtold the bear, "You may stay here and lie by the hearth, if you like, sothat you will be sheltered from the cold and from the bad weather."The offer was accepted, but when morning came, as the day broke in theeast, the two children let him out, and over the snow he went back intothe wood.After this, every evening at the same time the bear came, lay by thefire, and allowed the children to play with him. so they became quitefond of their curious playmate, and the door was not ever bolted in theevening until he had appeared.When spring time came, and all around began to look green and bright,one morning the bear said to Snow White, "Now I must leave you, and allthe summer long I shall not be able to come back.""Where, then, are you going, dear Bear?" asked Snow White."I have to go to the woods to protect my treasure from the bad dwarfs.In winter time, when the earth is frozen hard, they must remainunderground, and cannot make their way through: but now that thesunshine has thawed the earth they can come to the surface, and whatevergets into their hands, or is brought to their caves, seldom, if ever,again sees daylight."Snow White was very sad when she said good bye to the good naturedbeast, and unfastened the door, that he might go. but in going out hewas caught by a hook in the lintel, and a scrap of his fur being torn,Snow White thought there was something shining like gold through therent: but he went out so quickly that she could not feel certain what itwas, and soon he was hidden among the trees.One day the mother sent her children into the wood to pick up sticks.They found a big tree lying on the ground. It had been felled, andtowards the roots they noticed something skipping and springing, whichthey could not make out, as it was sometimes hidden in the grasses. Asthey came nearer they could see it was a dwarf, with a shrivelled upface and a snow white beard an ell long. The beard was fixed in a gashin the tree trunk, and the tiny fellow was hopping to and fro, like adog at the end of a string, but he could not manage to free himself. Hestared at the children with his red, fiery eyes, and called out, "Whyare you standing there? Can't you come and try to help me?""What were you doing, little fellow?" inquired Rose Red."Stupid, inquisitive goose!" replied the dwarf. "I meant to split thetrunk, so that I could chop it up for kitchen sticks. big logs wouldburn up the small quantity of food we cook, for people like us do notconsume great heaps of food, as you heavy, greedy folk do. The bill hookI had driven in, and soon I should have done what I required. but thetool suddenly sprang from the cleft, which so quickly shut up again thatit caught my handsome white beard. and here I must stop, for I cannotset myself free. You stupid pale faced creatures! You laugh, do you?"In spite of the dwarf's bad temper, the girls took all possible pains torelease the little man, but without avail, the beard could not be moved,it was wedged too tightly."I will run and get someone else," said Rose Red."Idiot!" cried the dwarf. "Who would go and get more people? Alreadythere are two too many. Can't you think of something better?""Don't be so impatient," said Snow White. "I will try to think." Sheclapped her hands as if she had discovered a remedy, took out herscissors, and in a moment set the dwarf free by cutting off the end ofhis beard.Immediately the dwarf felt that he was free he seized a sack full ofgold that was hidden amongst the tree's roots, and, lifting it up,grumbled out, "Clumsy creatures, to cut off a bit of my beautiful beard,of which I am so proud! I leave the cuckoos to pay you for what youdid." Saying this, he swung the sack across his shoulder, and went off,without even casting a glance at the children.Not long afterwards the two sisters went to angle in the brook, meaningto catch fish for dinner. As they were drawing near the water theyperceived something, looking like a large grasshopper, springing towardsthe stream, as if it were going in. They hurried up to see what it mightbe, and found that it was the dwarf. "Where are you going?" saidRose Red. "Surely you will not jump into the water?""I'm not such a simpleton as that!" yelled the little man. "Don't yousee that a wretch of a fish is pulling me in?"The dwarf had been sitting angling from the side of the stream when, byill luck, the wind had entangled his beard in his line, and justafterwards a big fish taking the bait, the unamiable little fellow hadnot sufficient strength to pull it out. so the fish had the advantage,and was dragging the dwarf after it. Certainly, he caught at every stalkand spray near him, but that did not assist him greatly. he was forcedto follow all the twistings of the fish, and was perpetually in dangerof being drawn into the brook.The girls arrived just in time. They caught hold of him firmly andendeavored to untwist his beard from the line, but in vain. they weretoo tightly entangled. There was nothing left but again to make use ofthe scissors. so they were taken out, and the tangled portion was cutoff.When the dwarf noticed what they were about, he exclaimed in a greatrage, "Is this how you damage my beard? Not content with making itshorter before, you are now making it still smaller, and completelyspoiling it. I shall not ever dare show my face to my friends. I wishyou had missed your way before you took this road." Then he fetched asack of pearls that lay among the rushes, and, not saying another word,hobbled off and disappeared behind a large stone.Soon after this it chanced that the poor widow sent her children to thetown to purchase cotton, needles, ribbon, and tape. The way to the townran over a common, on which in every direction large masses of rockswere scattered about. The children's attention was soon attracted to abig bird that hovered in the air. They remarked that, after circlingslowly for a time, and gradually getting nearer to the ground, it all ofa sudden pounced down amongst a mass of rock. Instantly a heartrendingcry reached their ears, and, running quickly to the place, they saw,with horror, that the eagle had seized their former acquaintance, thedwarf, and was just about to carry him off. The kind children did nothesitate for an instant. They took a firm hold of the little man, andstrove so stoutly with the eagle for possession of his contemplatedprey, that, after much rough treatment on both sides, the dwarf was leftin the hands of his brave little friends, and the eagle took to flight.As soon as the little man had in some measure recovered from his alarm,his small squeaky, cracked voice was heard saying, "Couldn't you haveheld me more gently? See my little coat. you have rent and damaged it ina fine manner, you clumsy, officious things!" Then he picked up a sackof jewels, and slipped out of sight behind a piece of rock.The maidens by this time were quite used to his ungrateful, ungraciousways. so they took no notice of it, but went on their way, made theirpurchases, and then were ready to return to their happy home.On their way back, suddenly, once more they ran across their dwarffriend. Upon a clear space he had turned out his sack of jewels, sothat he could count and admire them, for he had not imagined thatanybody would at so late an hour be coming across the common.The setting sun was shining upon the brilliant stones, and theirchanging hues and sparkling rays caused the children to pause to admirethem also."What are you gazing at?" cried the dwarf, at the same time becomingred with rage. "and what are you standing there for, making uglyfaces?" It is probable that he might have proceeded in the samecomplimentary manner, but suddenly a great growl was heard near bythem, and a big black bear joined the party. Up jumped the dwarf inextremest terror, but could not get to his hiding place, the bear wastoo close to him. so he cried out in very evident anguish "Dear Mr. Bear, forgive me, I pray! I will render to you all mytreasure. Just see those precious stones lying there! Grant me my life!What would you do with such an insignificant little fellow? You wouldnot notice me between your teeth. See, though, those two children,they would be delicate morsels, and are as plump as partridges. I begof you to take them, good Mr. Bear, and let me go!"But the bear would not be moved by his speeches. He gave theill disposed creature a blow with his paw, and he lay lifeless on theground.Meanwhile the maidens were running away, making off for home as well asthey could. but all of a sudden they were stopped by a well known voicethat called out, "Snow White, Rose Red, stay! Do not fear. I willaccompany you."The bear quickly came towards them, but, as he reached their side,suddenly the bear skin slipped to the ground, and there before them wasstanding a handsome man, completely garmented in gold, who said "I am a king's son, who was enchanted by the wicked dwarf lying overthere. He stole my treasure, and compelled me to roam the woodstransformed into a big bear until his death should set me free.Therefore he has only received a well deserved punishment."Some time afterwards Snow White married the Prince, and Rose Red hisbrother.They shared between them the enormous treasure which the dwarf hadcollected in his cave.The old mother spent many happy years with her children.