THERE was once upon a time a couple of folks who had a son calledHalvor. Ever since he had been a little boy he had been unwilling todo any work, and had just sat raking about among the ashes. His parentssent him away to learn several things, but Halvor stayed nowhere, forwhen he had been gone two or three days he always ran away from hismaster, hurried off home, and sat down in the chimney corner to grubamong the ashes again.One day, however, a sea captain came and asked Halvor if he hadn't afancy to come with him and go to sea, and behold foreign lands. AndHalvor had a fancy for that, so he was not long in getting ready.How long they sailed I have no idea, but after a long, long time therewas a terrible storm, and when it was over and all had become calmagain, they knew not where they were, for they had been driven away to astrange coast of which none of them had any knowledge.As there was no wind at all they lay there becalmed, and Halvor askedthe skipper to give him leave to go on shore to look about him, for hewould much rather do that than lie there and sleep.'Dost thou think that thou art fit to go where people can see thee?'said the skipper. 'thou hast no clothes but those rags thou art goingabout in!'Halvor still begged for leave, and at last got it, but he was to comeback at once if the wind began to rise.So he went on shore, and it was a delightful country. whithersoever hewent there were wide plains with fields and meadows, but as for people,there were none to be seen. The wind began to rise, but Halvor thoughtthat he had not seen enough yet, and that he would like to walk about alittle longer, to try if he could not meet somebody. So after a while hecame to a great highway, which was so smooth that an egg might have beenrolled along it without breaking. Halvor followed this, and when eveningdrew near he saw a big castle far away in the distance, and there werelights in it. So as he had now been walking the whole day and hadnot brought anything to eat away with him, he was frightfully hungry.Nevertheless, the nearer he came to the castle the more afraid he was.A fire was burning in the castle, and Halvor went into the kitchen,which was more magnificent than any kitchen he had ever yet beheld.There were vessels of gold and silver, but not one human being was tobe seen. When Halvor had stood there for some time, and no one had comeout, he went in and opened a door, and inside a Princess was sitting ather wheel spinning.'Nay!' she cried, 'can Christian folk dare to come hither? But the bestthing that you can do is to go away again, for if not the Troll willdevour you. A Troll with three heads lives here.''I should have been just as well pleased if he had had four heads more,for I should have enjoyed seeing the fellow,' said the youth. 'and Iwon't go away, for I have done no harm, but you must give me somethingto eat, for I am frightfully hungry.'When Halvor had eaten his fill, the Princess told him to try if he couldwield the sword which was hanging on the wall, but he could not wieldit, nor could he even lift it up.'Well, then, you must take a drink out of that bottle which is hangingby its side, for that's what the Troll does whenever he goes out andwants to use the sword,' said the Princess.Halvor took a draught, and in a moment he was able to swing the swordabout with perfect ease. And now he thought it was high time for theTroll to make his appearance, and at that very moment he came, pantingfor breath.Halvor got behind the door.'Hutetu!' said the Troll as he put his head in at the door. 'It smellsjust as if there were Christian man's blood here!''Yes, you shall learn that there is!' said Halvor, and cut off all hisheads.The Princess was so rejoiced to be free that she danced and sang, butthen she remembered her sisters, and said: 'If my sisters were but freetoo!''Where are they?' asked Halvor.So she told him where they were. One of them had been taken away by aTroll to his castle, which was six miles off, and the other had beencarried off to a castle which was nine miles farther off still.'But now,' said she, 'you must first help me to get this dead body awayfrom here.'Halvor was so strong that he cleared everything away, and made all cleanand tidy very quickly. So then they ate and drank, and were happy, andnext morning he set off in the grey light of dawn. He gave himself norest, but walked or ran the livelong day. When he came in sight of thecastle he was again just a little afraid. It was much more splendidthan the other, but here too there was not a human being to be seen. SoHalvor went into the kitchen, and did not linger there either, but wentstraight in.'Nay! do Christian folk dare to come here?' cried the second Princess.'I know not how long it is since I myself came, but during all that timeI have never seen a Christian man. It will be better for you to departat once, for a Troll lives here who has six heads.''No, I shall not go,' said Halvor. 'even if he had six more I wouldnot.''He will swallow you up alive,' said the Princess.But she spoke to no purpose, for Halvor would not go. he was not afraidof the Troll, but he wanted some meat and drink, for he was hungry afterhis journey. So she gave him as much as he would have, and then she oncemore tried to make him go away.'No,' said Halvor, 'I will not go, for I have not done anything wrong,and I have no reason to be afraid.''He won't ask any questions about that,' said the Princess, 'for he willtake you without leave or right. but as you will not go, try if you canwield that sword which the Troll uses in battle.'He could not brandish the sword. so the Princess said that he was totake a draught from the flask which hung by its side, and when he haddone that he could wield the sword.Soon afterwards the Troll came, and he was so large and stout that hewas forced to go sideways to get through the door. When the Troll gothis first head in he cried: 'Hutetu! It smells of a Christian man'sblood here!'With that Halvor cut off the first head, and so on with all the rest.The Princess was now exceedingly delighted, but then she remembered hersisters, and wished that they too were free. Halvor thought that mightbe managed, and wanted to set off immediately. but first he had to helpthe Princess to remove the Troll's body, so it was not until morningthat he set forth on his way.It was a long way to the castle, and he both walked and ran to get therein time. Late in the evening he caught sight of it, and it was very muchmore magnificent than either of the others. And this time he was not inthe least afraid, but went into the kitchen, and then straight on insidethe castle. There a Princess was sitting, who was so beautiful thatthere was never anyone to equal her. She too said what the others hadsaid, that no Christian folk had ever been there since she had come, andentreated him to go away again, or else the Troll would swallow him upalive. The Troll had nine heads, she told him.'Yes, and if he had nine added to the nine, and then nine more still, Iwould not go away,' said Halvor, and went and stood by the stove.The Princess begged him very prettily to go lest the Troll should devourhim. but Halvor said, 'Let him come when he will.'So she gave him the Troll's sword, and bade him take a drink from theflask to enable him to wield it.At that same moment the Troll came, breathing hard, and he was ever somuch bigger and stouter than either of the others, and he too was forcedto go sideways to get in through the door.'Hutetu! what a smell of Christian blood there is here!' said he.Then Halvor cut off the first head, and after that the others, but thelast was the toughest of them all, and it was the hardest work thatHalvor had ever done to get it off, but he still believed that he wouldhave strength enough to do it.And now all the Princesses came to the castle, and were together again,and they were happier than they had ever been in their lives. and theywere delighted with Halvor, and he with them, and he was to choose theone he liked best. but of the three sisters the youngest loved him best.But Halvor went about and was so strange and so mournful and quiet thatthe Princesses asked what it was that he longed for, and if he did notlike to be with them. He said that he did like to be with them, for theyhad enough to live on, and he was very comfortable there. but he longedto go home, for his father and mother were alive, and he had a greatdesire to see them again.They thought that this might easily be done.'You shall go and return in perfect safety if you will follow ouradvice,' said the Princesses.So he said that he would do nothing that they did not wish.Then they dressed him so splendidly that he was like a King's son. andthey put a ring on his finger, and it was one which would enable him togo there and back again by wishing, but they told him that he must notthrow it away, or name their names. for if he did, all his magnificencewould be at an end, and then he would never see them more.'If I were but at home again, or if home were but here!' said Halvor,and no sooner had he wished this than it was granted. Halvor wasstanding outside his father and mother's cottage before he knew what hewas about. The darkness of night was coming on, and when the father andmother saw such a splendid and stately stranger walk in, they were sostartled that they both began to bow and curtsey.Halvor then inquired if he could stay there and have lodging forthe night. No, that he certainly could not. 'We can give you no suchaccommodation,' they said, 'for we have none of the things that areneedful when a great lord like you is to be entertained. It will bebetter for you to go up to the farm. It is not far off, you can see thechimney pots from here, and there they have plenty of everything.'Halvor would not hear of that, he was absolutely determined to staywhere he was. but the old folks stuck to what they had said, and toldhim that he was to go to the farm, where he could get both meat anddrink, whereas they themselves had not even a chair to offer him.'No,' said Halvor, 'I will not go up there till early to morrow morning.let me stay here to night. I can sit down on the hearth.'They could say nothing against that, so Halvor sat down on the hearth,and began to rake about among the ashes just as he had done before, whenhe lay there idling away his time.They chattered much about many things, and told Halvor of this and ofthat, and at last he asked them if they had never had any child.'Yes,' they said. they had had a boy who was called Halvor, but they didnot know where he had gone, and they could not even say whether he weredead or alive.'Could I be he?' said Halvor.'I should know him well enough,' said the old woman rising. 'Our Halvorwas so idle and slothful that he never did anything at all, and he wasso ragged that one hole ran into another all over his clothes. Such afellow as he was could never turn into such a man as you are, sir.'In a short time the old woman had to go to the fireplace to stir thefire, and when the blaze lit up Halvor, as it used to do when he was athome raking up the ashes, she knew him again.'Good Heavens! is that you, Halvor?' said she, and such great gladnessfell on the old parents that there were no bounds to it. And now he hadto relate everything that had befallen him, and the old woman was sodelighted with him that she would take him up to the farm at once toshow him to the girls who had formerly looked down on him so. She wentthere first, and Halvor followed her. When she got there she toldthem how Halvor had come home again, and now they should just see howmagnificent he was. 'He looks like a prince,' she said.'We shall see that he is just the same ragamuffin that he was before,'said the girls, tossing their heads.At that same moment Halvor entered, and the girls were so astonishedthat they left their kirtles lying in the chimney corner, and ran awayin nothing but their petticoats. When they came in again they were soshamefaced that they hardly dared to look at Halvor, towards whom theyhad always been so proud and haughty before.'Ay, ay! you have always thought that you were so pretty and daintythat no one was equal to you,' said Halvor, 'but you should just see theeldest Princess whom I set free. You look like herds women compared withher, and the second Princess is also much prettier than you. but theyoungest, who is my sweetheart, is more beautiful than either sun ormoon. I wish to Heaven they were here, and then you would see them.'Scarcely had he said this before they were standing by his side, butthen he was very sorrowful, for the words which they had said to himcame to his mind.Up at the farm a great feast was made ready for the Princesses, and muchrespect paid to them, but they would not stay there.'We want to go down to your parents,' they said to Halvor, 'so we willgo out and look about us.'He followed them out, and they came to a large pond outside thefarm house. Very near the water there was a pretty green bank, and therethe Princesses said they would sit down and while away an hour, for theythought that it would be pleasant to sit and look out over the water,they said.There they sat down, and when they had sat for a short time the youngestPrincess said, 'I may as well comb your hair a little, Halvor.'So Halvor laid his head down on her lap, and she combed it, and it wasnot long before he fell asleep. Then she took her ring from him and putanother in its place, and then she said to her sisters: 'Hold me as I amholding you. I would that we were at Soria Moria Castle.'When Halvor awoke he knew that he had lost the Princesses, and began toweep and lament, and was so unhappy that he could not be comforted. Inspite of all his father's and mother's entreaties, he would not stay,but bade them farewell, saying that he would never see them more, forif he did not find the Princess again he did not think it worth while tolive.He again had three hundred dollars, which he put into his pocket andwent on his way. When he had walked some distance he met a man with atolerably good horse. Halvor longed to buy it, and began to bargain withthe man.'Well, I have not exactly been thinking of selling him,' said the man,'but if we could agree, perhaps  'Halvor inquired how much he wanted to have for the horse.'I did not give much for him, and he is not worth much. he is a capitalhorse to ride, but good for nothing at drawing. but he will always beable to carry your bag of provisions and you too, if you walk and rideby turns.' At last they agreed about the price, and Halvor laid hisbag on the horse, and sometimes he walked and sometimes he rode. In theevening he came to a green field, where stood a great tree, under whichhe seated himself. Then he let the horse loose and lay down to sleep,but before he did that he took his bag off the horse. At daybreak heset off again, for he did not feel as if he could take any rest. So hewalked and rode the whole day, through a great wood where there weremany green places which gleamed very prettily among the trees. He didnot know where he was or whither he was going, but he never lingeredlonger in any place than was enough to let his horse get a little foodwhen they came to one of these green spots, while he himself took outhis bag of provisions.So he walked and he rode, and it seemed to him that the wood would nevercome to an end. But on the evening of the second day he saw a lightshining through the trees.'If only there were some people up there I might warm myself and getsomething to eat,' thought Halvor.When he got to the place where the light had come from, he saw awretched little cottage, and through a small pane of glass he saw acouple of old folks inside. They were very old, and as grey headed asa pigeon, and the old woman had such a long nose that she sat in thechimney corner and used it to stir the fire.'Good evening! good evening!' said the old hag. 'but what errand haveyou that can bring you here? No Christian folk have been here for morethan a hundred years.'So Halvor told her that he wanted to get to Soria Moria Castle, andinquired if she knew the way thither.'No,' said the old woman, 'that I do not, but the Moon will be herepresently, and I will ask her, and she will know. She can easily see it,for she shines on all things.'So when the Moon stood clear and bright above the tree tops the oldwoman went out. 'Moon! Moon!' she screamed. 'Canst thou tell me the wayto Soria Moria Castle?''No,' said the Moon, 'that I can't, for when I shone there, there was acloud before me.''Wait a little longer,' said the old woman to Halvor, 'for the West Windwill presently be here, and he will know it, for he breathes gently orblows into every corner.''What! have you a horse too?' she said when she came in again. 'Oh! letthe poor creature loose in our bit of fenced in pasture, and don't letit stand there starving at our very door. But won't you exchange himwith me? We have a pair of old boots here with which you can go fifteenquarters of a mile at each step. You shall have them for the horse, andthen you will be able to get sooner to Soria Moria Castle.'Halvor consented to this at once, and the old woman was so delightedwith the horse that she was ready to dance. 'For now I, too, shall beable to ride to church,' she said. Halvor could take no rest, and wantedto set off immediately. but the old woman said that there was no need tohasten. 'Lie down on the bench and sleep a little, for we have no bedto offer you,' said she, 'and I will watch for the coming of the WestWind.'Ere long came the West Wind, roaring so loud that the walls creaked.The old woman went out and cried:'West Wind! West Wind! Canst thou tell me the way to Soria Moria Castle?Here is one who would go thither.''Yes, I know it well,' said the West Wind. 'I am just on my way there todry the clothes for the wedding which is to take place. If he is fleetof foot he can go with me.'Out ran Halvor.'You will have to make haste if you mean to go with me,' said the WestWind. and away it went over hill and dale, and moor and morass, andHalvor had enough to do to keep up with it.'Well, now I have no time to stay with you any longer,' said the WestWind, 'for I must first go and tear down a bit of spruce fir before I goto the bleaching ground to dry the clothes. but just go along the sideof the hill, and you will come to some girls who are standing therewashing clothes, and then you will not have to walk far before you areat Soria Moria Castle.'Shortly afterwards Halvor came to the girls who were standing washing,and they asked him if he had seen anything of the West Wind, who was tocome there to dry the clothes for the wedding.'Yes,' said Halvor, 'he has only gone to break down a bit of spruce fir.It won't be long before he is here.' And then he asked them the way toSoria Moria Castle. They put him in the right way, and when he came infront of the castle it was so full of horses and people that it swarmedwith them. But Halvor was so ragged and torn with following the WestWind through bushes and bogs that he kept on one side, and would notgo among the crowd until the last day, when the feast was to be held atnoon.So when, as was the usage and custom, all were to drink to the bride andthe young girls who were present, the cup bearer filled the cup for eachin turn, both bride and bridegroom, and knights and servants, and atlast, after a very long time, he came to Halvor. He drank their health,and then slipped the ring which the Princess had put on his fingerwhen they were sitting by the waterside into the glass, and ordered thecup bearer to carry the glass to the bride from him and greet her.Then the Princess at once rose up from the table, and said, 'Who is mostworthy to have one of us he who has delivered us from the Trolls or hewho is sitting here as bridegroom?'There could be but one opinion as to that, everyone thought, and whenHalvor heard what they said he was not long in flinging off his beggar'srags and arraying himself as a bridegroom.'Yes, he is the right one,' cried the youngest Princess when she caughtsight of him. so she flung the other out of the window and held herwedding with Halvor.(2)(2) From P. C. Asbjornsen.