From Shakespeare's As You Like It (act 2, scene 7):All the world's a stage,And all the men and women merely players:They have their exits and their entrances.And one man in his time plays many parts,His acts being seven ages. At first the infant,Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms.Then the whining school boy, with his satchelAnd shining morning face, creeping like snailUnwillingly to school. And then the lover,Sighing like furnace, with a woeful balladMade to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier,Full of strange oaths, and bearded like the pard,Jealous in honor, sudden and quick in quarrel,Seeking the bubble reputationEven in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice,In fair round belly with good capon lined,With eyes severe and beard of formal cut,Full of wise saws and modern instances.And so he plays his part. The sixth age shiftsInto the lean and slipper'd pantaloon,With spectacles on nose and pouch on side,His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wideFor his shrunk shank. and his big manly voice,Turning again toward childish treble, pipesAnd whistles in his sound. Last scene of all,That ends this strange eventful history,Is second childishness and mere oblivion,Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans every thing.The Grimms' "The Duration of Life," a tale collected from a peasant inhis field in 1840, presents the same pessimistic outcome, but adds aplayful teleological explanation:When God created the world he gave the ass, the dog, themonkey, and man each a life span of thirty years. The ass, knowing thathis was to be a hard existence, asked for a shorter life. God had mercyand took away eighteen years. The dog and the monkey similarly thoughttheir prescribed lives too long, and God reduced them respectively bytwelve and ten years. Man, however, considered the thirty years assignedto him to be too brief, and he petitioned for a longer life. Accordingly,God gave him the years not wanted by the ass, the dog, and themonkey.Thus man lives seventy years. The first thirty are his humanyears, and they quickly disappear. Here he is healthy and happy. he workswith pleasure, and enjoys his existence. The ass's eighteen years follow.Here one burden after the other is laid on him. he carries the grain thatfeeds others, and his faithful service is rewarded with kicks and blows.Then come the dog's twelve years, and he lies in the corner growling, nolonger having teeth with which to bite. And when this time is past, themonkey's ten years conclude. Now man is weak headed and foolish. he doessilly things and becomes a laughingstock for children.Source: Retold from " The Duration of Life ," Grimm, no. 176,type 173 (also categorized as type 828). Other versions include: "Man'sYears," Daly, Aesop without Morals, no. 105. "The Span of Man'sLife," Noy, Folktales of Israel, no. 26.For more tales of this type see Stages of Life: Folktales of Type 173 .