Once upon a time what happened did happen, and if it had not happenedthis story would never have been told.On the outskirts of a village just where the oxen were turned out topasture, and the pigs roamed about burrowing with their noses among theroots of the trees, there stood a small house. In the house lived a manwho had a wife, and the wife was sad all day long.'Dear wife, what is wrong with you that you hang your head like adrooping rosebud?' asked her husband one morning. 'You have everythingyou want. why cannot you be merry like other women?''Leave me alone, and do not seek to know the reason,' replied she,bursting into tears, and the man thought that it was no time to questionher, and went away to his work.He could not, however, forget all about it, and a few days after heinquired again the reason of her sadness, but only got the same reply.At length he felt he could bear it no longer, and tried a third time,and then his wife turned and answered him.'Good gracious!' cried she, 'why cannot you let things be as they are?If I were to tell you, you would become just as wretched as myself. Ifyou would only believe, it is far better for you to know nothing.'But no man yet was ever content with such an answer. The more you beghim not to inquire, the greater is his curiosity to learn the whole.'Well, if you MUST know,' said the wife at last, 'I will tell you. Thereis no luck in this house no luck at all!''Is not your cow the best milker in all the village? Are not your treesas full of fruit as your hives are full of bees? Has anyone cornfieldslike ours? Really you talk nonsense when you say things like that!''Yes, all that you say is true, but we have no children.'Then Stan understood, and when a man once understands and has his eyesopened it is no longer well with him. From that day the little house inthe outskirts contained an unhappy man as well as an unhappy woman. Andat the sight of her husband's misery the woman became more wretched thanever.And so matters went on for some time.Some weeks had passed, and Stan thought he would consult a wise manwho lived a day's journey from his own house. The wise man was sittingbefore his door when he came up, and Stan fell on his knees before him.'Give me children, my lord, give me children.''Take care what you are asking,' replied the wise man. 'Will notchildren be a burden to you? Are you rich enough to feed and clothethem?''Only give them to me, my lord, and I will manage somehow!' and at asign from the wise man Stan went his way.He reached home that evening tired and dusty, but with hope in hisheart. As he drew near his house a sound of voices struck upon his ear,and he looked up to see the whole place full of children. Childrenin the garden, children in the yard, children looking out of everywindow it seemed to the man as if all the children in the world must begathered there. And none was bigger than the other, but each was smallerthan the other, and every one was more noisy and more impudent and moredaring than the rest, and Stan gazed and grew cold with horror as herealised that they all belonged to him.'Good gracious! how many there are! how many!' he muttered to himself.'Oh, but not one too many,' smiled his wife, coming up with a crowd morechildren clinging to her skirts.But even she found that it was not so easy to look after a hundredchildren, and when a few days had passed and they had eaten up all thefood there was in the house, they began to cry, 'Father! I am hungry Iam hungry,' till Stan scratched his head and wondered what he was to donext. It was not that he thought there were too many children, for hislife had seemed more full of joy since they appeared, but now it came tothe point he did not know how he was to feed them. The cow had ceased togive milk, and it was too early for the fruit trees to ripen.'Do you know, old woman!' said he one day to his wife, 'I must go outinto the world and try to bring back food somehow, though I cannot tellwhere it is to come from.'To the hungry man any road is long, and then there was always thethought that he had to satisfy a hundred greedy children as well ashimself.Stan wandered, and wandered, and wandered, till he reached to the end ofthe world, where that which is, is mingled with that which is not, andthere he saw, a little way off, a sheepfold, with seven sheep in it. Inthe shadow of some trees lay the rest of the flock.Stan crept up, hoping that he might manage to decoy some of them awayquietly, and drive them home for food for his family, but he soon foundthis could not be. For at midnight he heard a rushing noise, and throughthe air flew a dragon, who drove apart a ram, a sheep, and a lamb, andthree fine cattle that were lying down close by. And besides these hetook the milk of seventy seven sheep, and carried it home to his oldmother, that she might bathe in it and grow young again. And thishappened every night.The shepherd bewailed himself in vain: the dragon only laughed, and Stansaw that this was not the place to get food for his family.But though he quite understood that it was almost hopeless to fightagainst such a powerful monster, yet the thought of the hungry childrenat home clung to him like a burr, and would not be shaken off, and atlast he said to the shepherd, 'What will you give me if I rid you of thedragon?''One of every three rams, one of every three sheep, one of every threelambs,' answered the herd.'It is a bargain,' replied Stan, though at the moment he did not knowhow, supposing he DID come off the victor, he would ever be able todrive so large a flock home.However, that matter could be settled later. At present night was notfar off, and he must consider how best to fight with the dragon.Just at midnight, a horrible feeling that was new and strange to himcame over Stan a feeling that he could not put into words even tohimself, but which almost forced him to give up the battle and takethe shortest road home again. He half turned. then he remembered thechildren, and turned back.'You or I,' said Stan to himself, and took up his position on the edgeof the flock.'Stop!' he suddenly cried, as the air was filled with a rushing noise,and the dragon came dashing past.'Dear me!' exclaimed the dragon, looking round. 'Who are you, and wheredo you come from?''I am Stan Bolovan, who eats rocks all night, and in the day feeds onthe flowers of the mountain. and if you meddle with those sheep I willcarve a cross on your back.'When the dragon heard these words he stood quite still in the middle ofthe road, for he knew he had met with his match.'But you will have to fight me first,' he said in a trembling voice, forwhen you faced him properly he was not brave at all.'I fight you?' replied Stan, 'why I could slay you with one breath!'Then, stooping to pick up a large cheese which lay at his feet, headded, 'Go and get a stone like this out of the river, so that we maylose no time in seeing who is the best man.'The dragon did as Stan bade him, and brought back a stone out of thebrook.'Can you get buttermilk out of your stone?' asked Stan.The dragon picked up his stone with one hand, and squeezed it till itfell into powder, but no buttermilk flowed from it. 'Of course I can't!'he said, half angrily.'Well, if you can't, I can,' answered Stan, and he pressed the cheesetill buttermilk flowed through his fingers.When the dragon saw that, he thought it was time he made the best of hisway home again, but Stan stood in his path.'We have still some accounts to settle,' said he, 'about what you havebeen doing here,' and the poor dragon was too frightened to stir, lestStan should slay him at one breath and bury him among the flowers in themountain pastures.'Listen to me,' he said at last. 'I see you are a very useful person,and my mother has need of a fellow like you. Suppose you enter herservice for three days, which are as long as one of your years, and shewill pay you each day seven sacks full of ducats.'Three times seven sacks full of ducats! The offer was very tempting,and Stan could not resist it. He did not waste words, but nodded to thedragon, and they started along the road.It was a long, long way, but when they came to the end they found thedragon's mother, who was as old as time itself, expecting them. Stan sawher eyes shining like lamps from afar, and when they entered the housethey beheld a huge kettle standing on the fire, filled with milk. Whenthe old mother found that her son had arrived empty handed she grew veryangry, and fire and flame darted from her nostrils, but before she couldspeak the dragon turned to Stan.'Stay here,' said he, 'and wait for me. I am going to explain things tomy mother.'Stan was already repenting bitterly that he had ever come to such aplace, but, since he was there, there was nothing for it but to takeeverything quietly, and not show that he was afraid.'Listen, mother,' said the dragon as soon as they were alone, 'I havebrought this man in order to get rid of him. He is a terrific fellow whoeats rocks, and can press buttermilk out of a stone,' and he told herall that had happened the night before.'Oh, just leave him to me!' she said. 'I have never yet let a man slipthrough my fingers.' So Stan had to stay and do the old mother service.The next day she told him that he and her son should try which was thestrongest, and she took down a huge club, bound seven times with iron.The dragon picked it up as if it had been a feather, and, after whirlingit round his head, flung it lightly three miles away, telling Stan tobeat that if he could.They walked to the spot where the club lay. Stan stooped and feltit. then a great fear came over him, for he knew that he and all hischildren together would never lift that club from the ground.'What are you doing?' asked the dragon.'I was thinking what a beautiful club it was, and what a pity it is thatit should cause your death.''How do you mean my death?' asked the dragon.'Only that I am afraid that if I throw it you will never see anotherdawn. You don't know how strong I am!''Oh, never mind that be quick and throw.''If you are really in earnest, let us go and feast for three days: thatwill at any rate give you three extra days of life.'Stan spoke so calmly that this time the dragon began to get a littlefrightened, though he did not quite believe that things would be as badas Stan said.They returned to the house, took all the food that could be found in theold mother's larder, and carried it back to the place where the club waslying. Then Stan seated himself on the sack of provisions, and remainedquietly watching the setting moon.'What are you doing?' asked the dragon.'Waiting till the moon gets out of my way.''What do you mean? I don't understand.''Don't you see that the moon is exactly in my way? But of course, if youlike, I will throw the club into the moon.'At these words the dragon grew uncomfortable for the second time.He prized the club, which had been left him by his grandfather, veryhighly, and had no desire that it should be lost in the moon.'I'll tell you what,' he said, after thinking a little. 'Don't throwthe club at all. I will throw it a second time, and that will do just aswell.''No, certainly not!' replied Stan. 'Just wait till the moon sets.'But the dragon, in dread lest Stan should fulfil his threats, triedwhat bribes could do, and in the end had to promise Stan seven sacks ofducats before he was suffered to throw back the club himself.'Oh, dear me, that is indeed a strong man,' said the dragon, turning tohis mother. 'Would you believe that I have had the greatest difficultyin preventing him from throwing the club into the moon?'Then the old woman grew uncomfortable too! Only to think of it! It wasno joke to throw things into the moon! So no more was heard of the club,and the next day they had all something else to think about.'Go and fetch me water!' said the mother, when the morning broke, andgave them twelve buffalo skins with the order to keep filling them tillnight.They set out at once for the brook, and in the twinkling of an eye thedragon had filled the whole twelve, carried them into the house, andbrought them back to Stan. Stan was tired: he could scarcely lift thebuckets when they were empty, and he shuddered to think of what wouldhappen when they were full. But he only took an old knife out of hispocket and began to scratch up the earth near the brook.'What are you doing there? How are you going to carry the water into thehouse?' asked the dragon.'How? Dear me, that is easy enough! I shall just take the brook!'At these words the dragon's jaw dropped. This was the last thing thathad ever entered his head, for the brook had been as it was since thedays of his grandfather.'I'll tell you what!' he said. 'Let me carry your skins for you.''Most certainly not,' answered Stan, going on with his digging, and thedragon, in dread lest he should fulfil his threat, tried what bribeswould do, and in the end had again to promise seven sacks of ducatsbefore Stan would agree to leave the brook alone and let him carry thewater into the house.On the third day the old mother sent Stan into the forest for wood, and,as usual, the dragon went with him.Before you could count three he had pulled up more trees than Stan couldhave cut down in a lifetime, and had arranged them neatly in rows. Whenthe dragon had finished, Stan began to look about him, and, choosing thebiggest of the trees, he climbed up it, and, breaking off a long rope ofwild vine, bound the top of the tree to the one next it. And so he didto a whole line of trees.'What are you doing there?' asked the dragon.'You can see for yourself,' answered Stan, going quietly on with hiswork.'Why are you tying the trees together?''Not to give myself unnecessary work. when I pull up one, all the otherswill come up too.''But how will you carry them home?''Dear me! don't you understand that I am going to take the whole forestback with me?' said Stan, tying two other trees as he spoke.'I'll tell you what,' cried the dragon, trembling with fear at thethought of such a thing. 'let me carry the wood for you, and you shallhave seven times seven sacks full of ducats.''You are a good fellow, and I agree to your proposal,' answered Stan,and the dragon carried the wood.Now the three days' service which were to be reckoned as a year wereover, and the only thing that disturbed Stan was, how to get all thoseducats back to his home!In the evening the dragon and his mother had a long talk, but Stan heardevery word through a crack in the ceiling.'Woe be to us, mother,' said the dragon. 'this man will soon get us intohis power. Give him his money, and let us be rid of him.'But the old mother was fond of money, and did not like this.'Listen to me,' said she. 'you must murder him this very night.''I am afraid,' answered he.'There is nothing to fear,' replied the old mother. 'When he is asleeptake the club, and hit him on the head with it. It is easily done.'And so it would have been, had not Stan heard all about it. And when thedragon and his mother had put out their lights, he took the pigs' troughand filled it with earth, and placed it in his bed, and covered it withclothes. Then he hid himself underneath, and began to snore loudly.Very soon the dragon stole softly into the room, and gave a tremendousblow on the spot where Stan's head should have been. Stan groaned loudlyfrom under the bed, and the dragon went away as softly as he had come.Directly he had closed the door, Stan lifted out the pigs' trough, andlay down himself, after making everything clean and tidy, but he waswise enough not to shut his eyes that night.The next morning he came into the room when the dragon and his motherwere having their breakfast.'Good morning,' said he.'Good morning. How did you sleep?''Oh, very well, but I dreamed that a flea had bitten me, and I seem tofeel it still.'The dragon and his mother looked at each other. 'Do you hear that?'whispered he. 'He talks of a flea. I broke my club on his head.'This time the mother grew as frightened as her son. There was nothing tobe done with a man like this, and she made all haste to fill the sackswith ducats, so as to get rid of Stan as soon as possible. But on hisside Stan was trembling like an aspen, as he could not lift even onesack from the ground. So he stood still and looked at them.'What are you standing there for?' asked the dragon.'Oh, I was standing here because it has just occurred to me that Ishould like to stay in your service for another year. I am ashamed thatwhen I get home they should see I have brought back so little. I knowthat they will cry out, "Just look at Stan Bolovan, who in one year hasgrown as weak as a dragon."'Here a shriek of dismay was heard both from the dragon and his mother,who declared they would give him seven or even seven times seven thenumber of sacks if he would only go away.'I'll tell you what!' said Stan at last. 'I see you don't want me tostay, and I should be very sorry to make myself disagreeable. I willgo at once, but only on condition that you shall carry the money homeyourself, so that I may not be put to shame before my friends.'The words were hardly out of his mouth before the dragon had snatched upthe sacks and piled them on his back. Then he and Stan set forth.The way, though really not far, was yet too long for Stan, but at lengthhe heard his children's voices, and stopped short. He did not wish thedragon to know where he lived, lest some day he should come to take backhis treasure. Was there nothing he could say to get rid of the monster?Suddenly an idea came into Stan's head, and he turned round.'I hardly know what to do,' said he. 'I have a hundred children, and Iam afraid they may do you harm, as they are always ready for a fight.However, I will do my best to protect you.'A hundred children! That was indeed no joke! The dragon let fall thesacks from terror, and then picked them up again. But the children, whohad had nothing to eat since their father had left them, came rushingtowards him, waving knives in their right hands and forks in their left,and crying, 'Give us dragon's flesh. we will have dragon's flesh.'At this dreadful sight the dragon waited no longer: he flung down hissacks where he stood and took flight as fast as he could, so terrifiedat the fate that awaited him that from that day he has never dared toshow his face in the world again.(Adapted from Rumanische Marchen.)