There lived not far from Gordonsville (Virginia) a widow who was noted forher niggardliness and extreme parsimony. so stingy and mean was she that aplacard was nailed on her gate, under her own direction, with theinscription: "No soldier fed or housed here."The best foragers of the brigade met their match in the old woman, andreturned defeated from the field. at last she was left in undisturbedpossession of the place, and no hungry soldiers were ever fed at hertable.But one day a famished looking, lank, angular specimen of the genus Rebappeared at her farmhouse and knocked at her door. When the animatedfigure of War and Famine combined stalked into her yard, the old lady wasspeechless with wrath. she opened the door, prepared for immediatehostilities, but the sad faced defender of the soil was asking in a humblevoice and with a deprecatory manner, "Please, marm, lend me your ironpot.""Man, I have no iron pot for you!" This was snappily jerked out, while anevident determination was shown to shut the door in his face."Please, marm, I won't hurt it.""You do not suppose," she began in angry tones, "you do not for one momentsuppose I am going to lend you my pot to carry to camp, do you? If I werefool enough, I would never see it again, so don't think that you are goingto get it. Go over there to Mrs. Hanger's, she will lend you hers. onething is certain, I won't! ""Marm," he still pleaded, "I will bring your pot back, hope I may die if Idon't! If you don't believe me I won't take it out of the yard but willkindle a fire just here. please, marm.""What do you want with it?" asked the old woman, who was beginning to feelthat she would be none the worse in pocket by granting the request, butmight, on the contrary, be gainer in some way."I want to bile some stone soup," answered the soldier, looking pitifullyat his questioner."Stone soup! What's stone soup?" and the old lady's curiosity began torise. "How do you make it, and what for?""Marm," replied the mournful infantryman, "ever since the war began therations have become scarcer and scarcer, until now they have stoppedentirely and we uns have to live on stone soup to keep from starving.""Stone soup," mused the woman, "I never heard of it before, must besomething new. one of these newfangled things. cheap, too. well, how doyou say you make it ?""Please, marm, you get a pot with some water and I will show you. we bilesthe stone."The ancient dame trotted off full of wonder and inquisitiveness to get thearticle. Yes, it was worth knowing the recipe. fully worth the use of thepot, besides she would make her dinner off that soup and save that much!So, very much mollified, she returned and found the soldier had alreadykindled his fire. placing the kettle over it he waited for the water toboil, in the meanwhile selecting a rock about the size of his head, whichhe washed clean and put in the pot. then he said to the old woman, who hadbeen peering into the pot through her spectacles, "Marm, please give me aleetle piece of bacon about the size of your hand to give the soup arelish."The old lady trotted off and got it for him. another five minutes passed."Is it done?" she inquired."It's mos' done, but please, marm, give me half a head o' cabbage just tomake it taste right."Without a word the cabbage was brought. and ten minutes slipped away."Is it not done by this time?" again she asked."Mos' done," with a brightening look, and then as if a new idea had justoccurred to him, "Please, marm, can't you give me a half a dozen potatoesjust to give it a nice flavor like.""All right," answered the widow, who by this time had become deeplyabsorbed in the operation. The potatoes followed the meat and cabbage, andanother ten minutes followed that."Isn't it done yet? 'Pears to me that it's a long time cooking," she said,getting somewhat impatient."Mos' done, marm, mos' done," insinuatingly."Jest get me a small handful of flour, a little pepper and sometermartusses and it will be all right then."The things were duly added from the widow's stores and bubbled in the pota while. then the soup was pronounced done and lifted from the fire. Thesoldier pulled out his knife with spoon attachment and commenced to eat.he lost no time between mouthfuls. the economical widow hastened in, andreturned with a plate, which she filled. on tasting the first spoonful sheexclaimed, "Why, man, this is nothing but common meat and vegetable soup!""So it is, marm," responded the soldier after a while, for there was not aminute to spare for talking. "so it is, marm, but we call it stone soup."The old lady carried the pot back into the house, but not before the manhad emptied it, learning for the first time how a soldier's ingenuitycould compass anything and outwit even herself. She said, "They have OldNick on their side," and tradition adds, she even kept that stone andswore by it.