A tramp knocked at the farmhouse door. "I can't let you in, for myhusband is not at home," said the woman of the house. "And I haven't athing to offer you," she added. Her voice showed unmasked scorn for theman she held to be a beggar."Then you could make use of my soup stone," he replied, pulling fromhis pocket what appeared to be an ordinary stone."Soup stone?" said she, suddenly showing interest in the tatteredstranger."Oh yes," he said. "If I just had a potful of water and a fire, I'dshow you how it works. This stone and boiling water make the best soupyou've ever eaten. Your husband would thank you for the good supper, ifyou'd just let me in and put my stone to use over your fire."The woman's suspicions yielded to her desire for an easy meal, and sheopened the door. A pot of water was soon brought to a boil. The trampdropped in his stone, then tasted the watery gruel. "It needs salt, and abit of barley," he said. "And some butter, too, if you can spare it." Thewoman obliged him by adding the requested ingredients. He tasted it again."Much better!" he said. "But a good soup needs vegetables and potatoes.Are there none in your cellar?""Oh yes," she said, her enthusiasm for the miracle soup growing, andshe quickly found a generous portion of potatoes, turnips, carrots, andbeans.After the mixture had boiled awhile, the man tasted it again. "It'salmost soup," he said. "The stone has not failed us. But some chickenbroth and chunks of meat would do it well."The woman, recognizing the truth of his claim, ran to the chicken yard,returning soon with a freshly slaughtered fowl. "Soup stone, do yourthing!" she said, adding the chicken to the stew.When their noses told them that the soup was done, the woman dished upa healthy portion for her guest and for herself. They ate their fill, and  thanks to the magic stone   there was still a modest bowlful left overfor her husband's supper."My thanks for the use of your pot and your fire," said the tramp asevening approached, and he sensed that the husband soon would be arrivinghome. He fished his stone from the bottom of the pot, licked it clean, andput it back into his pocket."Do come again," said the thankful woman."I will indeed," said the tramp, and disappeared into the woods.