Once upon a time there lived a poor old man whose name was Wali DadGunjay, or Wali Dad the Bald. He had no relations, but lived all byhimself in a little mud hut some distance from any town, and made hisliving by cutting grass in the jungle, and selling it as fodder forhorses. He only earned by this five halfpence a day. but he was a simpleold man, and needed so little out of it, that he saved up one halfpennydaily, and spent the rest upon such food and clothing as he required.In this way he lived for many years until, one night, he thought that hewould count the money he had hidden away in the great earthen pot underthe floor of his hut. So he set to work, and with much trouble he pulledthe bag out on to the floor, and sat gazing in astonishment at the heapof coins which tumbled out of it. What should he do with them all? hewondered. But he never thought of spending the money on himself, becausehe was content to pass the rest of his days as he had been doing forever so long, and he really had no desire for any greater comfort orluxury.At last he threw all the money into an old sack, which he pushed underhis bead, and then, rolled in his ragged old blanket, he went off tosleep.Early next morning he staggered off with his sack of money to the shopof a jeweller, whom he knew in the town, and bargained with him for abeautiful little gold bracelet. With this carefully wrapped up inhis cotton waistband he went to the house of a rich friend, who wasa travelling merchant, and used to wander about with his camels andmerchandise through many countries. Wali Dad was lucky enough to findhim at home, so he sat down, and after a little talk he asked themerchant who was the most virtuous and beautiful lady he had ever metwith. The merchant replied that the princess of Khaistan was renownedeverywhere as well for the beauty of her person as for the kindness andgenerosity of her disposition.'Then,' said Wali Dad, 'next time you go that way, give her this littlebracelet, with the respectful compliments of one who admires virtue farmore than he desires wealth.'With that he pulled the bracelet from his waistband, and handed itto his friend. The merchant was naturally much astonished, but saidnothing, and made no objection to carrying out his friend's plan.Time passed by, and at length the merchant arrived in the course of histravels at the capital of Khaistan. As soon as he had opportunity hepresented himself at the palace, and sent in the bracelet, neatly packedin a little perfumed box provided by himself, giving at the same timethe message entrusted to him by Wali Dad.The princess could not think who could have bestowed this present onher, but she bade her servant to tell the merchant that if he wouldreturn, after he had finished his business in the city, she would givehim her reply. In a few days, therefore, the merchant came back, andreceived from the princess a return present in the shape of a camel loador rich silks, besides a present of money for himself. With these he setout on his journey.Some months later he got home again from his journeyings, and proceededto take Wali Dad the princess's present. Great was the perplexity of thegood man to find a camel load of silks tumbled at his door! What was heto do with these costly things? But, presently, after much thought, hebegged the merchant to consider whether he did not know of some youngprince to whom such treasures might be useful.'Of course,' cried the merchant, greatly amused. 'from Delhi to Baghdad,and from Constantinople to Lucknow, I know them all. and there livesnone worthier than the gallant and wealthy young prince of Nekabad.''Very well, then, take the silks to him, with the blessing of an oldman,' said Wali Dad, much relieved to be rid of them.So, the next time that the merchant journeyed that way he carried thesilks with him, and in due course arrived at Nekabad, and sought anaudience of the prince. When he was shown into his presence he producedthe beautiful gift of silks that Wali Dad had sent, and begged the youngman to accept them as a humble tribute to his worth and greatness. Theprince was much touched by the generosity of the giver, and ordered,as a return present, twelve of the finest breed of horses for which hiscountry was famous to be delivered over to the merchant, to whom also,before he took his leave, he gave a munificent reward for his services.As before, the merchant at last arrived at home. and next day, he setout for Wali Dad's house with the twelve horses. When the old man sawthem coming in the distance he said to himself: 'Here's luck! a troopof horses coming! They are sure to want quantities of grass, and Ishall sell all I have without having to drag it to market.' Thereuponhe rushed off and cut grass as fast he could. When he got back, withas much grass as he could possibly carry, he was greatly discomfited tofind that the horses were all for himself. At first he could not thinkwhat to do with them, but, after a little, a brilliant idea struck him!He gave two to the merchant, and begged him to take the rest to theprincess of Khaistan, who was clearly the fittest person to possess suchbeautiful animals.The merchant departed, laughing. But, true to his old friend's request,he took the horses with him on his next journey, and eventuallypresented them safely to the princess. This time the princess sent forthe merchant, and questioned him about the giver. Now, the merchant wasusually a most honest man, but he did not quite like to describe WaliDad in his true light as an old man whose income was five halfpence aday, and who had hardly clothes to cover him. So he told her that hisfriend had heard stories of her beauty and goodness, and had longed tolay the best he had at her feet. The princess then took her father intoher confidence, and begged him to advise her what courtesy she mightreturn to one who persisted in making her such presents.'Well,' said the king, 'you cannot refuse them. so the best thing youcan do is to send this unknown friend at once a present so magnificentthat he is not likely to be able to send you anything better, and sowill be ashamed to send anything at all!' Then he ordered that, inplace of each of the ten horses, two mules laden with silver should bereturned by her.Thus, in a few hours, the merchant found himself in charge of a splendidcaravan. and he had to hire a number of armed men to defend it on theroad against the robbers, and he was glad indeed to find himself backagain in Wali Dad's hut.'Well, now,' cried Wali Dad, as he viewed all the wealth laid at hisdoor, 'I can well repay that kind prince for his magnificent present ofhorses. but to be sure you have been put to great expenses! Still,if you will accept six mules and their loads, and will take the reststraight to Nekabad, I shall thank you heartily.'The merchant felt handsomely repaid for his trouble, and wonderedgreatly how the matter would turn out. So he made no difficulty aboutit. and as soon as he could get things ready, he set out for Nekabadwith this new and princely gift.This time the prince, too, was embarrassed, and questioned the merchantclosely. The merchant felt that his credit was at stake, and whilstinwardly determining that he would not carry the joke any further, couldnot help describing Wali Dad in such glowing terms that the old manwould never have known himself had he heard them. The prince, like theking of Khaistan, determined that he would send in return a gift thatwould be truly royal, and which would perhaps prevent the unknown giversending him anything more. So he made up a caravan on twenty splendidhorses caparisoned in gold embroidered cloths, with fine morocco saddlesand silver bridles and stirrups, also twenty camels of the best breed,which had the speed of race horses, and could swing along at a trotall day without getting tired. and, lastly, twenty elephants, withmagnificent silver howdahs and coverings of silk embroidered withpearls. To take care of these animals the merchant hired a little armyof men. and the troop made a great show as they travelled along.When Wali Dad from a distance saw the cloud of dust which the caravanmade, and the glitter of its appointments, he said to himself: 'ByAllah! here's a grand crowd coming! Elephants, too! Grass will beselling well to day!' And with that he hurried off to the jungle and cutgrass as fast as he could. As soon as he got back he found the caravanhad stopped at his door, and the merchant was waiting, a littleanxiously, to tell him the news and to congratulate him upon his riches.'Riches!' cried Wali Dad, 'what has an old man like me with one foot inthe grave to do with riches? That beautiful young princess, now! She'dbe the one to enjoy all these fine things! Do you take for yourself twohorses, two camels, and two elephants, with all their trappings, andpresent the rest to her.'The merchant at first objected to these remarks, and pointed out to WaliDad that he was beginning to feel these embassies a little awkward. Ofcourse he was himself richly repaid, so far as expenses went. but stillhe did not like going so often, and he was getting nervous. At length,however he consented to go once more, but he promised himself never toembark on another such enterprise.So, after a few days' rest, the caravan started off once more forKhaistan.The moment the king of Khaistan saw the gorgeous train of men and beastsentering his palace courtyard, he was so amazed that he hurried downin person to inquire about it, and became dumb when he heard thatthese also were a present from the princely Wali Dad, and were for theprincess, his daughter. He went hastily off to her apartments, and saidto her: 'I tell you what it is, my dear, this man wants to marry you.that is the meaning of all these presents! There is nothing for it butthat we go and pay him a visit in person. He must be a man of immensewealth, and as he is so devoted to you, perhaps you might do worse thanmarry him!'The princess agreed with all that her father said, and orders wereissued for vast numbers of elephants and camels, and gorgeous tentsand flags, and litters for the ladies, and horses for the men, to beprepared without delay, as the king and princess were going to pay avisit to the great and munificent prince Wali Dad. The merchant, theking declared, was to guide the party.The feelings of the poor merchant in this sore dilemma can hardly beimagined. Willingly would he have run away. but he was treated with somuch hospitality as Wali Dad's representative, that he hardly got aninstant's real peace, and never any opportunity of slipping away. Infact, after a few days, despair possessed him to such a degree that hemade up his mind that all that happened was fate, and that escape wasimpossible. but he hoped devoutly some turn of fortune would revealto him a way out of the difficulties which he had, with the bestintentions, drawn upon himself.On the seventh day they all started, amidst thunderous salutes fromthe ramparts of the city, and much dust, and cheering, and blaring oftrumpets.Day after day they moved on, and every day the poor merchant felt moreill and miserable. He wondered what kind of death the king would inventfor him, and went through almost as much torture, as he lay awake nearlythe whole of every night thinking over the situation, as he would havesuffered if the king's executioners were already setting to work uponhis neck.At last they were only one day's march from Wali Dad's little mud home.Here a great encampment was made, and the merchant was sent on to tellWali Dad that the King and Princess of Khaistan had arrived and wereseeking an interview. When the merchant arrived he found the poor oldman eating his evening meal of onions and dry bread, and when he toldhim of all that had happened he had not the heart to proceed to loadhim with the reproaches which rose to his tongue. For Wali Dad wasoverwhelmed with grief and shame for himself, for his friend, and forthe name and honour of the princess. and he wept and plucked at hisbeard, and groaned most piteously. With tears he begged the merchant todetain them for one day by any kind of excuse he could think of, and tocome in the morning to discuss what they should do.As soon as the merchant was gone Wali Dad made up his mind that therewas only one honourable way out of the shame and distress that he hadcreated by his foolishness, and that was to kill himself. So, withoutstopping to ask any one's advice, he went off in the middle of the nightto a place where the river wound along at the base of steep rocky cliffsof great height, and determined to throw himself down and put an endto his life. When he got to the place he drew back a few paces, took alittle run, and at the very edge of that dreadful black gulf he stoppedshort! He COULD not do it!From below, unseen in the blackness of the deep night shadows, the waterroared and boiled round the jagged rocks he could picture the placeas he knew it, only ten times more pitiless and forbidding in thevisionless darkness. the wind soughed through the gorge with fearsomesighs, and rustlings and whisperings, and the bushes and grasses thatgrew in the ledges of the cliffs seemed to him like living creaturesthat danced and beckoned, shadowy and indistinct. An owl laughed 'Hoo!hoo!' almost in his face, as he peered over the edge of the gulf, andthe old man threw himself back in a perspiration of horror. He wasafraid! He drew back shuddering, and covering his face in his hands hewept aloud.Presently he was aware of a gentle radiance that shed itself before him.Surely morning was not already coming to hasten and reveal his disgrace!He took his hands from before his face, and saw before him two lovelybeings whom his instinct told him were not mortal, but were Peris fromParadise.'Why do you weep, old man?' said one, in a voice as clear and musical asthat of the bulbul.'I weep for shame,' replied he.'What do you here?' questioned the other.'I came here to die,' said Wali Dad. And as they questioned him, heconfessed all his story.Then the first stepped forward and laid a hand upon his shoulder,and Wali Dad began to feel that something strange what, he did notknow was happening to him. His old cotton rags of clothes were changedto beautiful linen and embroidered cloth. on his hard, bare feet werewarm, soft shoes, and on his head a great jewelled turban. Round hisneck there lay a heavy golden chain, and the little old bent sickle,which he cut grass with, and which hung in his waistband, had turnedinto a gorgeous scimetar, whose ivory hilt gleamed in the pale lightlike snow in moonlight. As he stood wondering, like a man in a dream,the other peri waved her hand and bade him turn and see. and, lo! beforehim a noble gateway stood open. And up an avenue of giant place treesthe peris led him, dumb with amazement. At the end of the avenue, on thevery spot where his hut had stood, a gorgeous palace appeared, ablazewith myriads of lights. Its great porticoes and verandahs were occupiedby hurrying servants, and guards paced to and fro and saluted himrespectfully as he drew near, along mossy walks and through sweepinggrassy lawns where fountains were playing and flowers scented the air.Wali Dad stood stunned and helpless.'Fear not,' said one of the peris. 'go to your house, and learn that Godrewards the simple hearted.'With these words they both disappeared and left him. He walked on,thinking still that he must be dreaming. Very soon he retired to rest ina splendid room, far grander than anything he had ever dreamed of.When morning dawned he woke, and found that the palace, and himself, andhis servants were all real, and that he was not dreaming after all!If he was dumbfounded, the merchant, who was ushered into his presencesoon after sunrise, was much more so. He told Wali Dad that he had notslept all night, and by the first streak of daylight had started to seekout his friend. And what a search he had had! A great stretch of wildjungle country had, in the night, been changed into parks and gardens.and if it had not been for some of Wali Dad's new servants, who foundhim and brought him to the palace, he would have fled away under theimpression that his trouble had sent him crazy, and that all he saw wasonly imagination.Then Wali Dad told the merchant all that had happened. By his advice hesent an invitation to the king and princess of Khaistan to come and behis guests, together with all their retinue and servants, down to thevery humblest in the camp.For three nights and days a great feast was held in honour of the royalguests. Every evening the king and his nobles were served on goldenplates and from golden cups. and the smaller people on silver plates andfrom silver cups. and each evening each guest was requested to keep theplaces and cups that they had used as a remembrance of the occasion.Never had anything so splendid been seen. Besides the great dinners,there were sports and hunting, and dances, and amusements of all sorts.On the fourth day the king of Khaistan took his host aside, and askedhim whether it was true, as he had suspected, that he wished to marryhis daughter. But Wali Dad, after thanking him very much for thecompliment, said that he had never dreamed of so great an honour, andthat he was far too old and ugly for so fair a lady. but he begged theking to stay with him until he could send for the Prince of Nekabad, whowas a most excellent, brave, and honourable young man, and would surelybe delighted to try to win the hand of the beautiful princess.To this the king agreed, and Wali Dad sent the merchant to Nekabad, witha number of attendants, and with such handsome presents that the princecame at once, fell head over ears in love with the princess, and marriedher at Wali Dad's palace amidst a fresh outburst of rejoicings.And now the King of Khaistan and the Prince and Princess of Nekabad,each went back to their own country. and Wali Dad lived to a goodold age, befriending all who were in trouble and preserving, in hisprosperity, the simple hearted and generous nature that he had when hewas only Wali Dad Gunjay, the grass cutter.