Once upon a time, far away in the east country, there lived a king wholoved hunting so much that, when once there was a deer in sight, he wascareless of his own safety. Indeed, he often became quite separated fromhis nobles and attendants, and in fact was particularly fond of lonelyadventures. Another of his favourite amusements was to give out that hewas not well, and could not be seen. and then, with the knowledge onlyof his faithful Grand Wazeer, to disguise himself as a pedlar, load adonkey with cheap wares, and travel about. In this way he found outwhat the common people said about him, and how his judges and governorsfulfilled their duties.One day his queen presented him with a baby daughter as beautiful as thedawn, and the king himself was so happy and delighted that, for awhole week, he forgot to hunt, and spent the time in public and privaterejoicing.Not long afterwards, however, he went out after some deer which were tobe found in a far corner of his forests. In the course of the beat hisdogs disturbed a beautiful snow white stag, and directly he saw it theking determined that he would have it at any cost. So he put the spursto his horse, and followed it as hard as he could gallop. Of course allhis attendants followed at the best speed that they could manage. butthe king was so splendidly mounted, and the stag was so swift, that,at the end of an hour, the king found that only his favourite hound andhimself were in the chase. all the rest were far, far behind and out ofsight.Nothing daunted, however, he went on and on, till he perceived that hewas entering a valley with great rocky mountains on all sides, and thathis horse was getting very tired and trembled at every stride. Worsethan all evening was already drawing on, and the sun would soon set.In vain had he sent arrow after arrow at the beautiful stag. Every shotfell short, or went wide of the mark. and at last, just as darknesswas setting in, he lost sight altogether of the beast. By this time hishorse could hardly move from fatigue, his hound staggered panting alongbeside him, he was far away amongst mountains where he had never beenbefore, and had quite missed his way, and not a human creature ordwelling was in sight.All this was very discouraging, but the king would not have minded if hehad not lost that beautiful stag. That troubled him a good deal, buthe never worried over what he could not help, so he got down from hishorse, slipped his arm through the bridle, and led the animal along therough path in hopes of discovering some shepherd's hut, or, at least, acave or shelter under some rock, where he might pass the night.Presently he heard the sound of rushing water, and made towards it. Hetoiled over a steep rocky shoulder of a hill, and there, just below him,was a stream dashing down a precipitous glen, and, almost beneath hisfeet, twinkling and flickering from the level of the torrent, was a dimlight as of a lamp. Towards this light the king with his horse and houndmade his way, sliding and stumbling down a steep, stony path. At thebottom the king found a narrow grassy ledge by the brink of the stream,across which the light from a rude lantern in the mount of a cave sheda broad beam of uncertain light. At the edge of the stream sat an oldhermit with a long white beard, who neither spoke nor moved as theking approached, but sat throwing into the stream dry leaves which layscattered about the ground near him.'Peace be upon you,' said the king, giving the usual country salutation.'And upon you peace,' answered the hermit. but still he never looked up,nor stopped what he was doing.For a minute or two the king stood watching him. He noticed that thehermit threw two leaves in at a time, and watched them attentively.Sometimes both were carried rapidly down by the stream. sometimes onlyone leaf was carried off, and the other, after whirling slowly round andround on the edge of the current, would come circling back on an eddy tothe hermit's feet. At other times both leaves were held in the backwardeddy, and failed to reach the main current of the noisy stream.'What are you doing?' asked the king at last, and the hermit repliedthat he was reading the fates of men. every one's fate, he said, wassettled from the beginning, and, whatever it were, there was no escapefrom it. The king laughed.'I care little,' he said, 'what my fate may be. but I should be curiousto know the fate of my little daughter.''I cannot say,' answered the hermit.'Do you not know, then?' demanded the king.'I might know,' returned the hermit, 'but it is not always wisdom toknow much.'But the king was not content with this reply, and began to press the oldman to say what he knew, which for a long time he would not do. At last,however, the king urged him so greatly that he said:'The king's daughter will marry the son of a poor slave girl calledPuruna, who belongs to the king of the land of the north. There is noescaping from Fate.'The king was wild with anger at hearing these words, but he was alsovery tired. so he only laughed, and answered that he hoped there wouldbe a way out of THAT fate anyhow. Then he asked if the hermit couldshelter him and his beasts for the night, and the hermit said 'Yes'.so, very soon the king had watered and tethered his horse, and, after asupper of bread and parched peas, lay down in the cave, with the houndat his feet, and tried to go to sleep. But instead of sleeping he onlylay awake and thought of the hermit's prophecy. and the more he thoughtof it the angrier he felt, until he gnashed his teeth and declared thatit should never, never come true.Morning came, and the king got up, pale and sulky, and, after learningfrom the hermit which path to take, was soon mounted and found his wayhome without much difficulty. Directly he reached his palace he wrote aletter to the king of the land of the north, begging him, as a favour,to sell him his slave girl Puruna and her son, and saying that, if heconsented, he would send a messenger to receive them at the river whichdivided the kingdoms.For five days he awaited the reply, and hardly slept or ate, but was ascross as could be all the time. On the fifth day his messenger returnedwith a letter to say that the king of the land of the north would notsell, but he would give, the king the slave girl and her son. The kingwas overjoyed. He sent for his Grand Wazeer and told him that he wasgoing on one of his lonely expeditions, and that the Wazeer must inventsome excuse to account for his absence. Next he disguised himself as anordinary messenger, mounted a swift camel, and sped away to the placewhere the slave girl was to be handed over to him. When he got there hegave the messengers who brought her a letter of thanks and a handsomepresent for their master and rewards for themselves. and then withoutdelay he took the poor woman and her tiny baby boy up on to his cameland rode off to a wild desert.After riding for a day and a night, almost without stopping, he came toa great cave where he made the woman dismount, and, taking her and thebaby into the cave, he drew his sword and with one blow chopped herhead off. But although his anger made him cruel enough for anything sodreadful, the king felt that he could not turn his great sword on thehelpless baby, who he was sure must soon die in this solitary placewithout its mother. so he left it in the cave where it was, and,mounting his camel, rode home as fast as he could.Now, in a small village in his kingdom there lived an old widow whohad no children or relations of any kind. She made her living mostly byselling the milk of a flock of goats. but she was very, very poor, andnot very strong, and often used to wonder how she would live if shegot too weak or ill to attend to her goats. Every morning she drove thegoats out into the desert to graze on the shrubs and bushes which grewthere, and every evening they came home of themselves to be milked andto be shut up safely for the night.One evening the old woman was astonished to find that her very bestnanny goat returned without a drop of milk. She thought that somenaughty boy or girl was playing a trick upon her and had caught the goaton its way home and stolen all the milk. But when evening after eveningthe goat remained almost dry she determined to find out who the thiefwas. So the next day she followed the goats at a distance and watchedthem while they grazed. At length, in the afternoon, the old womannoticed this particular nanny goat stealing off by herself away from theherd and she at once went after her. On and on the goat walked forsome way, and then disappeared into a cave in the rocks. The old womanfollowed the goat into the cave and then, what should she see but theanimal giving her milk to a little boy baby, whilst on the groundnear by lay the sad remains of the baby's dead mother! Wondering andfrightened, the old woman thought at last that this little baby mightbe a son to her in her old age, and that he would grow up and in timeto come be her comfort and support. So she carried home the baby to herhut, and next day she took a spade to the cave and dug a grave where sheburied the poor mother.Years passed by, and the baby grew up into a find handsome lad, asdaring as he was beautiful, and as industrious as he was brave. Oneday, when the boy, whom the old woman had named Nur Mahomed, was aboutseventeen years old, he was coming from his day's work in the fields,when he saw a strange donkey eating the cabbages in the garden whichsurround their little cottage. Seizing a big stick, he began to beatthe intruder and to drive him out of his garden. A neighbour passing bycalled out to him 'Hi! I say! why are you beating the pedlar's donkeylike that?''The pedlar should keep him from eating my cabbages,' said Nur Mahomed.'if he comes this evening here again I'll cut off his tail for him!'Whereupon he went off indoors, whistling cheerfully. It happened thatthis neighbour was one of those people who make mischief by talking toomuch. so, meeting the pedlar in the 'serai,' or inn, that evening, hetold him what had occurred, and added: 'Yes. and the young spitfire saidthat if beating the donkey would not do, he would beat you also, and cutyour nose off for a thief!'A few days later, the pedlar having moved on, two men appeared in thevillage inquiring who it was who had threatened to ill treat and tomurder an innocent pedlar. They declared that the pedlar, in fear of hislife, had complained to the king. and that they had been sent to bringthe lawless person who had said these things before the king himself.Of course they soon found out about the donkey eating Nur Mahomed'scabbages, and about the young man's hot words. but although the ladassured them that he had never said anything about murdering anyone,they replied they were ordered to arrest him, and bring him to take histrial before the king. So, in spite of his protests, and the wails ofhis mother, he was carried off, and in due time brought before the king.Of course Nur Mahomed never guessed that the supposed pedlar happened tohave been the king himself, although nobody knew it.But as he was very angry at what he had been told, he declared that hewas going to make an example of this young man, and intended to teachhim that even poor travelling pedlars could get justice in HIS country,and be protected from such lawlessness. However, just as he was going topronounce some very heavy sentence, there was a stir in the court, andup came Nur Mahomed's old mother, weeping and lamenting, and begging tobe heard. The king ordered her to speak, and she began to plead for theboy, declaring how good he was, and how he was the support of her oldage, and if he were put in prison she would die. The king asked her whoshe was. She replied that she was his mother.'His mother?' said the king. 'you are too old, surely, to have so younga son!'Then the old woman, in her fright and distress, confessed the wholestory of how she found the baby, and how she rescued and brought him up,and ended by beseeching the king for mercy.It is easy to guess how, as the story came out, the king looked blackerand blacker, and more and more grim, until at last he was half faintingwith rage and astonishment. This, then, was the baby he had left to die,after cruelly murdering his mother! Surely fate might have spared himthis! He wished he had sufficient excuse to put the boy to death, forthe old hermit's prophecy came back to him as strongly as ever. and yetthe young man had done nothing bad enough to deserve such a punishment.Everyone would call him a tyrant if he were to give such an order infact, he dared not try it!At length he collected himself enough to say: 'If this young man willenlist in my army I will let him off. We have need of such as him, anda little discipline will do him good.' Still the old woman pleaded thatshe could not live without her son, and was nearly as terrified at theidea of his becoming a soldier as she was at the thought of his beingput in prison. But at length the king determined to get the youth intohis clutches pacified her by promising her a pension large enough tokeep her in comfort. and Nur Mahomed, to his own great delight, was dulyenrolled in the king's army.As a soldier Nur Mahomed seemed to be in luck. He was rather surprised,but much pleased, to find that he was always one of those chosen whenany difficult or dangerous enterprise was afoot. and, although he hadthe narrowest escapes on some occasions, still, the very desperatenessof the situations in which he found himself gave him special chancesof displaying his courage. And as he was also modest and generous, hebecame a favourite with his officers and his comrades.Thus it was not very surprising that, before very long, he becameenrolled amongst the picked men of the king's bodyguard. The fact is,that the king had hoped to have got him killed in some fight or another.but, seeing that, on the contrary, he throve on hard knocks, he was nowdetermined to try more direct and desperate methods.One day, soon after Nur Mahomed had entered the bodyguard, he wasselected to be one of the soldiers told off to escort the king throughthe city. The procession was marching on quite smoothly, when a man,armed with a dagger, rushed out of an alley straight towards the king.Nur Mahomed, who was the nearest of the guards, threw himself in theway, and received the stab that had been apparently intended for theking. Luckily the blow was a hurried one, and the dagger glanced on isbreastbone, so that, although he received a severe wound, his youth andstrength quickly got the better of it. The king was, of course, obligedto take some notice of this brave deed, and as a reward made him one ofhis own attendants.After this the strange adventures the young man passed through wereendless. Officers of the bodyguard were often sent on all sorts ofsecret and difficult errands, and such errands had a curious way ofbecoming necessary when Nur Mahomed was on duty. Once, while he wastaking a journey, a foot bridge gave way under him. once he was attackedby armed robbers. a rock rolled down upon him in a mountain pass. aheavy stone coping fell from a roof at his feet in a narrow city alley.Altogether, Nur Mahomed began to think that, somewhere or other, he hadmade an enemy. but he was light hearted, and the thought did not muchtrouble him. He escaped somehow every time, and felt amused rather thananxious about the next adventure.It was the custom of that city that the officer for the day of thepalace guards should receive all his food direct from the king'skitchen. One day, when Nur Mahomed's turn came to be on duty, he wasjust sitting down to a delicious stew that had been sent in fromthe palace, when one of those gaunt, hungry dogs, which, in easterncountries, run about the streets, poked his nose in at the openguard room door, and looked at Nur Mahomed with mouth watering andnostrils working. The kind hearted young man picked out a lump of meat,went to the door, and threw it outside to him. The dog pounced uponit, and gulped it down greedily, and was just turning to go, when itstaggered, fell, rolled over, and died. Nur Mahomed, who had been lazilywatching him, stood still for a moment, then he came back whistlingsoftly. He gathered up the rest of his dinner and carefully wrapped itup to carry away and bury somewhere. and then he sent back the emptyplates.How furious the king was when, at the next morning's durbar, NurMahomed appeared before him fresh, alert and smiling as usual. He wasdetermined, however, to try once more, and bidding the young man comeinto his presence that evening, gave orders that he was to carry asecret despatch to the governor of a distant province. 'Make yourpreparations at once,' added he, 'and be ready to start in the morning.I myself will deliver you the papers at the last moment.'Now this province was four or five days' journey from the palace, andthe governor of it was the most faithful servant the king had. He couldbe silent as the grave, and prided himself on his obedience. Whilst hewas an old and tried servant of the king's, his wife had been almost amother to the young princess ever since the queen had died some yearsbefore. It happened that, a little before this time, the princess hadbeen sent away for her health to another remote province. and whilst shewas there her old friend, the governor's wife, had begged her to comeand stay with them as soon as she could.The princess accepted gladly, and was actually staying in the governor'shouse at the very time when the king made up his mind to send NurMahomed there with the mysterious despatch.According to orders Nur Mahomed presented himself early the next morningat the king's private apartments. His best horse was saddled, foodplaced in is saddle bag, and with some money tied up in his waist band,he was ready to start. The king handed over to him a sealed packet,desiring him to give it himself only into the hands of the governor,and to no one else. Nur Mahomed hid it carefully in his turban, swunghimself into the saddle, and five minutes later rode out of the citygates, and set out on his long journey.The weather was very hot. but Nur Mahomed thought that the sooner hisprecious letter was delivered the better. so that, by dint of ridingmost of each night and resting only in the hottest part of the day, hefound himself, by noon on the third day, approaching the town which washis final destination.Not a soul was to be seen anywhere. and Nur Mahomed, stiff, dry,thirsty, and tired, looked longingly over the wall into the gardens, andmarked the fountains, the green grass, the shady apricot orchards, andgiant mulberry trees, and wished he were there.At length he reached the castle gates, and was at once admitted, as hewas in the uniform of the king's bodyguard. The governor was resting,the soldier said, and could not see him until the evening. So NurMahomed handed over his horse to an attendant, and wandered down intothe lovely gardens he had seen from the road, and sat down in the shadeto rest himself. He flung himself on his back and watched the birdstwittering and chattering in the trees above him. Through the brancheshe could see great patches of sky where the kites wheeled and circledincessantly, with shrill whistling cried. Bees buzzed over the flowerswith a soothing sound, and in a few minutes Nur Mahomed was fast asleep.Every day, through the heat of the afternoon, the governor, and his wifealso, used to lie down for two or three hours in their own rooms, andso, for the matter of that, did most people in the palace. But theprincess, like many other girls, was restless, and preferred to wanderabout the garden, rather than rest on a pile of soft cushions. What atorment her stout old attendants and servants sometime thought her whenshe insisted on staying awake, and making them chatter or do something,when they could hardly keep their eyes open! Sometimes, however, theprincess would pretend to go to sleep, and then, after all her women hadgladly followed her example, she would get up and go out by herself, herveil hanging loosely about her. If she was discovered her old hostessscolded her severely. but the princess only laughed, and did the samething next time.This very afternoon the princess had left all her women asleep, and,after trying in vain to amuse herself indoors, she had slipped outinto the great garden, and rambled about in all her favourite nooksand corners, feeling quite safe as there was not a creature to be seen.Suddenly, on turning a corner, she stopped in surprise, for before herlay a man fast asleep! In her hurry she had almost tripped over him. Butthere he was, a young man, tanned and dusty with travel, in the uniformof an officer of the king's guard. One of the few faults of this lovelyprincess was a devouring curiosity, and she lived such an idle life thatshe had plenty of time to be curious. Out of one of the folds of thisyoung man's turban there peeped the corner of a letter! She wonderedwhat the letter was whom it was for! She drew her veil a little closer,and stole across on tip toe and caught hold of the corner of the letter.Then she pulled it a little, and just a little more! A great big sealcame into view, which she saw to be her father's, and at the sight ofit she paused for a minute half ashamed of what she was doing. But thepleasure of taking a letter which was not meant for her was more thanshe could resist, and in another moment it was in her hand. All at onceshe remembered that it would be death to this poor officer if he lostthe letter, and that at all hazards she must put it back again. But thiswas not so easy. and, moreover, the letter in her hand burnt her withlonging to read it, and see what was inside. She examined the seal. Itwas sticky with being exposed to the hot sun, and with a very littleeffort it parted from the paper. The letter was open and she read it!And this was what was written:'Behead the messenger who brings this letter secretly and at once. Askno questions.'The girl grew pale. What a shame! she thought. SHE would not let ahandsome young fellow like that be beheaded. but how to prevent itwas not quite clear at the moment. Some plan must be invented, and shewished to lock herself in where no one could interrupt her, as mighteasily happen in the garden. So she crept softly to her room, and tooka piece of paper and wrote upon it: 'Marry the messenger who bringsthis letter to the princess openly at once. Ask no questions.' And evencontrived to work the seals off the original letter and to fix them tothis, so that no one could tell, unless they examined it closely, thatit had ever been opened. Then she slipped back, shaking with fear andexcitement, to where the young officer still lay asleep, thrust theletter into the fold so his turban, and hurried back to her room. It wasdone!Late in the afternoon Nur Mahomed woke, and, making sure that theprecious despatch was still safe, went off to get ready for his audiencewith the governor. As soon as he was ushered into his presence hetook the letter from his turban and placed it in the governor's handsaccording to orders. When he had read it the governor was certainly alittle astonished. but he was told in the letter to 'ask no questions,'and he knew how to obey orders. He sent for his wife and told her to getthe princess ready to be married at once.'Nonsense!' said his wife, 'what in the world do you mean?''These are the king's commands,' he answered. 'go and do as I bidyou. The letter says "at once," and "ask no questions." The marriage,therefore, must take place this evening.'In vain did his wife urge every objection. the more she argued, the moredetermined was her husband. 'I know how to obey orders,' he said,'and these are as plain as the nose on my face!' So the princess wassummoned, and, somewhat to their surprise, she seemed to take the newsvery calmly. next Nur Mahomed was informed, and he was greatly startled,but of course he could but be delighted at the great and unexpectedhonour which he thought the king had done him. Then all the castlewas turned upside down. and when the news spread in the town, THATwas turned upside down too. Everybody ran everywhere, and tried to doeverything at once. and, in the middle of it all, the old governor wentabout with his hair standing on end, muttering something about 'obeyingorders.'And so the marriage was celebrated, and there was a great feast in thecastle, and another in the soldiers' barracks, and illuminations allover the town and in the beautiful gardens. And all the people declaredthat such a wonderful sight had never been seen, and talked about it tothe ends of their lives.The next day the governor despatched the princess and her bridegroom tothe king, with a troop of horsemen, splendidly dressed, and he sent amounted messenger on before them, with a letter giving the account ofthe marriage to the king.When the king got the governor's letter, he grew so red in the facethat everyone thought he was going to have apoplexy. They were all veryanxious to know what had happened, but he rushed off and locked himselfinto a room, where he ramped and raved until he was tired. Then, afterawhile, he began to think he had better make the best of it, especiallyas the old governor had been clever enough to send him back hisletter, and the king was pretty sure that this was in the princess'shandwriting. He was fond of his daughter, and though she had behavedbadly, he did not wish to cut HER head off, and he did not want peopleto know the truth because it would make him look foolish. In fact, themore he considered the matter, the more he felt that he would be wiseto put a good face on it, and to let people suppose that he had reallybrought about the marriage of his own free will.So, when the young couple arrived, the king received them with allstate, and gave his son in law a province to govern. Nur Mahomed soonproved himself as able and honourable a governor as he was a bravesoldier. and, when the old king died, he became king in his place, andreigned long and happily.Nur Mahomed's old mother lived for a long time in her 'son's' palace,and died in peace. The princess, his wife, although she had got herhusband by a trick, found that she could not trick HIM, and so she nevertried, but busied herself in teaching her children and scolding hermaids. As for the old hermit, no trace of him was ever discovered. butthe cave is there, and the leaves lie thick in front of it unto thisday.