An old woman lived in a village. She had gathered a serving of beansand wanted to cook them, so she prepared a fire in her fireplace. To makeit burn faster she lit it with a handful of straw. While she was pouringthe beans into the pot, one of them fell unnoticed to the floor, coming torest next to a piece of straw. Soon afterward a glowing coal jumped out ofthe fireplace and landed next to them.The straw said, "Dear friends, where do you come from?"The coal answered, "I jumped from the fireplace, to my good fortune. IfI had not forced my way out, I surely would have died. I would have burnedto ash."The bean said, "I too saved my skin. If the old woman had gotten meinto the pot I would have been cooked to mush without mercy, just like mycomrades.""Would my fate have been any better?" said the straw. "The old womansent all my brothers up in fire and smoke. She grabbed sixty at once andkilled them. Fortunately I slipped through her fingers.""What should we do now?" asked the coal."Because we have so fortunately escaped death," answered the bean, "Ithink that we should join together as comrades. To prevent some newmisfortune from befalling us here, let us together make our way to anotherland."This proposal pleased the other two, and they set forth all together.They soon came to a small brook, and because there was neither a bridgenor a walkway there, they did not know how they would get across it.Then the straw had a good idea, and said, "I will lay myself across it,and you can walk across me like on a bridge."So the straw stretched himself from one bank to the other. The coal,who was a hot headed fellow, stepped brashly onto the newly constructedbridge, but when he got to the middle and heard the water rushing beneathhim, he took fright, stopped, and did not dare to go any further. Then thestraw caught fire, broke into two pieces, and fell into the brook. Thecoal slid after him, hissed as he fell into the water, and gave up theghost.The bean who had cautiously stayed behind on the bank had to laugh atthe event. He could not stop, and he laughed so fiercely that he burst.Now he too would have died, but fortunately a wandering tailor was there,resting near the brook. Having a compassionate heart, he got out a needleand thread and sewed the bean back together.The bean thanked him most kindly. However, because he had used blackthread, since that time all beans have had a black seam.