Hans was the son of a poor widow. When he was young, the children of wealthy peasants teased him because he was modest and reserved and never repaid evil with evil. Soon everyone in the village called him Stupid Hans. Later he was hired as a farmhand by a wealthy landowner. His master was pleased with his good work, and some time later he proposed that Hans should work an additional seven years, after which he would receive the landowner's daughter as a wife. Hans had long been attracted to the good looking girl, so he joyfully agreed to the arrangement, then worked with renewed energy and loyalty. Following his example, the other servants worked all the more diligently, and the estate prospered greatly.The landowner's added wealth swelled him with pride, although he owed it almost entirely to his faithful servant Hans, and he soon forgot his promise. At the conclusion of seven years he arranged for his daughter to marry a neighboring wealthy landowner. This breach of promise angered Hans greatly, but he said nothing, waiting instead for the wedding day when he would avenge himself.It happened that he had come into possession of a magic charm in the following manner: Once when he was hauling wood from the forest his wagon shaft had broken. He fashioned a new one but was unable to attach it to the wagon. After numerous unsuccessful attempts he was about to give up when he heard a small voice behind him saying, "Hold fast, hold fast!" and the shaft immediately attached itself to the wagon. Hans looked about with amazement, but no one was to be seen.Afterward Hans experimented often with this magical charm, and he now planned to use it for his revenge. The wedding day arrived with a great celebration. The father of the bride spared no expense to make himself look important to his neighbors. In the evening the young couple slipped away from the festivities and retired to their bedroom. Hans followed them without being seen. The young bridegroom, suspecting nothing, embraced his blushing bride, when Hans softly spoke out, "Hold fast, hold fast!" The young couple could not separate themselves from his embrace. Hans retired quietly to his own bed in the stall.The parents did not discover the young couple's plight until the next morning. They cried out miserably, then sent Hans to the pastor, thinking that through prayer the pastor could cast out the devil who held the poor ones captive.It was a rainy day, and Hans was walking behind the pastor, who lifted his robe whenever he had to wade through a puddle. At such a moment Hans whispered a mighty "Hold fast, hold fast!" and the pastor was unable to release his robe, but had to continue holding it high. At the house he said a number of prayers, but they did not help, so Hans was sent to fetch a cunning woman.Their way back led them through a broad ditch filled with water. When the cunning woman approached it she lifted up her skirts in order to walk across. Hans murmured softly, "Hold fast, hold fast!" and the cunning woman was forced to continue on her way while holding her skirts high.The news of the young couple's enchantment brought many neighbors to the scene, and everyone felt sorry for them. When the cunning woman, weirdly holding up her skirts, approached the wedding house, a brash peasant touched her naked thigh with his tobacco pipe. Hans quickly said, "Hold fast, hold fast!" and the peasant had to follow her.When the bride's father saw that Hans was laughing mockingly while everyone else was sadly standing by, he cried out, "This evil was caused by no one other than Hans. It is his revenge. Come, let's beat the daylight out of him!"All hands immediately grabbed him and threw him over a bundle of straw, but when they raised their sticks Hans shouted, "Hold fast, hold fast!" and not a one of them could move an arm.Recognizing the power of his magic charm, they begged Hans to free them. They promised him a rich land holding and many other valuables. Hans made them swear to this and then called out, "Let go, let go!" Suddenly they were all free: the young couple, the pastor, the cunning woman, the brash peasant, and the angry neighbors.They all begged Hans never again to make use of the magic charm, which he promised. He received the property and the other valuables as agreed, and he died a wealthy and respected landowner.