Stupid Gretel lived with her husband in a lonely little house justoutside the village, and she did not deal with people verymuch. One day a hungry fellow came to her while her husband was in thefield, and he asked her to give him something toeat, for he had gone hungry the entire day. He would be satisfied even ifit were only a piece of meat, or half of one.Now her husband had slaughtered a pig only yesterday, so she wentinside and brought back half of the pig.Yes, he could manage that, said the hungry man, and he loaded theburden onto his shoulders and went on hisway.When Gretel's husband came home and learned what she had done, heruffled his hair and said, "Gretel, my Gretel,when will you ever learn? Why didn't you just cut him a slice?""Oh, dear husband," said Gretel, "you know that I cannot shed blood.How would I have been able to cut a slice out ofthat poor man?"The husband said, "Gretel, my Gretel, you will never learn! I am goingto town now, and if I can find a woman therewho is more stupid than you, then I'll spare your life, otherwise it willcost you your neck."So he went to town. The market had just begun, and as he, lost in histhoughts, approached an egg woman, he stumbledinto her basket, breaking the eggs until the ground looked like it wasplastered with pancakes made without lard."Hey!" the egg woman jumped up shouting, "What kind of crazy man isthat?""Now, now," cried the man. "Clear out your mouth and speak differently.Who can see a miserable egg peddler if he has just fallen from heaven?""Oh my dear God, you have come from heaven?" cried the woman. "Howcould I have known that? Tell me, have youseen my blessed husband Christian? God willing, he will have been thereone year this Easter.""I hope to say I have seen him," answered the man. "Only yesterday weate together. He is the best companion I have inall of heaven, and when I return, he is the first person I will seek out.But he's not doing too well polishing the stars. He hasto clean the stars every night, and having only one shirt for Sundays andworkdays alike is no fun.""Oh my dear God," cried the woman. "Is he doing so poorly, my dearChristian? In that case may God bless you if youwill take him the piece of cloth that I bought for him before he died. Itis as good as new.""If it's not too heavy, I will give it a try," said the man, and wentwith the woman to her house. She gave him the cloth,and she wouldn't stop until she had given him a basket full of eggs forher Christian as well.Then he set off toward home. As he approached home, Gretel becamefrightened, for she could only think that her lasthour had struck. But her husband waved to her from afar and shouted,"Gretel, my Gretel, you are not yet the most stupid woman!"Then he told her about his dealings with the egg woman. He was verypleased with the new cloth and the gift of theeggs. And Gretel too was much relieved that this time, at least, it hadnot cost her her neck.