Once upon a time when Brahmadatta was reigning in Benares, there was abeautiful woman of the town, called Sulasa, whose price was a thousandpieces a night. There was in the same city a robber named Sattuka, asstrong as an elephant, who used to enter rich men's houses at night andplunder at will. One day he was captured. Sulasa was standing at herwindow when the soldiers led Sattuka, his hands bound behind his back,down the street toward the place of execution.She fell in love with him on sight, and said, "If I can free that stoutfighting man, I will give up this bad life of mine and live respectablywith him." She sent a thousand pieces to the chief constable, and thusgained his freedom. They lived together in delight and harmony for sometime, but after three or four months, the robber thought, "I shall neverbe able to stay in this one place. But one can't go empty handed. Herornaments are worth a hundred thousand pieces. I will kill her and takethem."So he said to her one day, "Dear, when I was being hauled along by theking's men, I promised an offering to a tree deity on a mountain top, whois now threatening me because I have not paid it. Let us make anoffering."She consented to accompany her husband to the mountain top to make theoffering. She should, he said, to honor the deity, wear all of herornaments.When they arrived at the mountain top, he revealed his true purpose: "Ihave not come to present the offering. I have come with the intention ofkilling you and going away with all your ornaments. Take them all off andmake a bundle of them in your outer garment.""Husband, why would you kill me?""For your money.""Husband, remember the good I have done you. When you were being hauledalong in chains, I paid a large sum and saved your life. Though I mightget a thousand pieces a day, I never look at another man. Such abenefactress I am to you. Do not kill me. I will give you much money andbe your slave."But instead of accepting her entreaties, he continued his preparationsto kill her."At least let me salute you," she said. "I am going to make obeisanceto you on all four sides." Kneeling in front of him, she put her head tohis foot, repeated the act at his left side, then at his right side, thenfrom behind. Once behind him, she took hold of him, and with the strengthof an elephant threw him over a cliff a hundred times as high as a man. Hewas crushed to pieces and died on the spot. Seeing this deed, the deitywho lived on the mountain top spoke this stanza:Wisdom at times is not confined to men.A woman can show wisdom now and then.So Sulasa killed the robber. When she descended from the mountain andreturned to her attendants, they asked where her husband was. "Don't askme," she said, and mounting her chariot she went on to the city.