Cudgel out of the SackThere was once upon a time a tailor who had three sons, and only onegoat. But as the goat supported all of them with her milk, she was obligedto have good food, and to be taken every day to pasture. The sons didthis, in turn.Once the eldest took her to the churchyard, where the finest herbs wereto be found, and let her eat and run about there. At night when it wastime to go home he asked, "Goat, have you had enough?"The goat answered,I have eaten so much,Not a leaf more I'll touch.Meh, meh!"Come home, then," said the youth, and took hold of the cord around herneck, led her into the stable, and tied her up securely."Well," said the old tailor, "has the goat had as much food as sheought?""Oh," answered the son, "she has eaten so much, not a leaf more she'lltouch."But the father wished to satisfy himself, and went down to the stable,stroked the dear animal, and asked, "Goat, are you satisfied?"The goat answered,How should I be satisfied?Among the ditches I leapt about,Found no leaf, so went without.Meh, meh!"What do I hear?" cried the tailor, and ran upstairs and said to theyouth, "Hey, you liar, you said the goat had had enough, and have let herhunger." And in his anger he took the yardstick from the wall, and drovehim out with blows.Next day it was the turn of the second son, who sought a place next tothe garden hedge where nothing but good herbs grew, and the goat gobbledthem all up. At night when he wanted to go home, he asked, "Goat, are yousatisfied?"I have eaten so much,Not a leaf more I'll touch.Meh, meh!"Come home then," said the youth, and led her home, and tied her up inthe stable."Well," said the old tailor, "has the goat had as much food as sheought?""Oh," answered the son, "she has eaten so much, not a leaf more she'lltouch."The tailor would not rely on this, but went down to the stable andsaid, "Goat, have you had enough?"The goat answered,How should I be satisfied?Among the ditches I leapt about,Found no leaf, so went without.Meh, meh!"The godless wretch!" cried the tailor, to let such a good animalhunger, and he ran up and drove the youth out of doors with theyardstick.Now came the turn of the third son, who wanted to do his duty well, andsought out some bushes with the finest leaves, and let the goat devourthem. In the evening when he wanted to go home, he asked, "Goat, have youhad enough?"The goat answered,I have eaten so much,Not a leaf more I'll touch.Meh, meh!"Come home then," said the youth, and led her into the stable, and tiedher up."Well," said the old tailor, "has the goat had her full share offood?""She has eaten so much, not a leaf more she'll touch."The tailor was distrustful, went down, and asked, "Goat, have you hadenough?"The wicked beast answered,How should I be satisfied?Among the ditches I leapt about,Found no leaf, so went without.Meh, meh!"Oh, the brood of liars!" cried the tailor, "Each as wicked andforgetful of his duty as the other. You shall no longer make a fool ofme!" And quite beside himself with anger, he ran upstairs and tanned thepoor young fellow's back so vigorously with the yardstick that he leapedout of the house.The old tailor was now alone with his goat. Next morning he went downinto the stable, stroked the goat and said, "Come, my dear little animal,I myself will take you to feed." He took her by the rope and led her togreen hedges, and amongst yarrow and whatever else goats like to eat."Here you may for once eat to your heart's content," he said to her, andlet her browse till evening. Then he asked, "Goat, are you satisfied?"She answered,I have eaten so much,Not a leaf more I'll touch.Meh, meh!"Come home then," said the tailor, and led her into the stable, andtied her fast. When he was going away, he turned around again and said,"Well, are you satisfied for once?"But the goat behaved no better for him, and cried,How should I be satisfied?Among the ditches I leapt about,Found no leaf, so went without.Meh, meh!When the tailor heard that, he was shocked, and saw clearly that he haddriven away his three sons without cause. "Wait, you ungrateful creature,"he cried, "it is not enough to drive you away, I will brand you so thatyou will no more dare to show yourself amongst honest tailors." He quicklyran upstairs, fetched his razor, lathered the goat's head, and shaved heras clean as the palm of his hand. And as the yardstick would have been toohonorable for her, he grabbed a whip, and gave her such blows with it thatshe bounded away with tremendous leaps.When the tailor was thus left quite alone in his house he fell intogreat grief, and would gladly have had his sons back again, but no oneknew where they were gone.The eldest had apprenticed himself to a joiner, and learnedindustriously and tirelessly, and when the time came for him to be on hisway, his master presented him with a little table which was notparticularly beautiful, and was made of common wood, but which had onegood property. If anyone set it out, and said, "table be set," the goodlittle table was at once covered with a clean little cloth, and a platewas there, and a knife and fork beside it, and dishes with boiled meatsand roasted meats, as many as there was room for, and a great glass of redwine shone, so that it made the heart glad.The young journeyman thought, "With this you have enough for your wholelife," and went joyously about the world and never troubled himself at allwhether an inn was good or bad, or if anything was to be found in it ornot. When it suited him, he did not enter an inn at all, but either on theplain, in a wood, a meadow, or wherever he fancied, he took his littletable off his back, set it down before him, and said, "table be set," andthen everything appeared that his heart desired.At length he took it into his head to go back to his father, whoseanger would now be appeased, and who would now willingly receive him withhis magic table. It came to pass that on his way home, he came one eveningto an inn which was filled with guests. They bade him welcome, and invitedhim to sit and eat with them, for otherwise he would have difficulty ingetting anything."No," answered the joiner, "I will not take the few morsels out of yourmouths. Rather than that, you shall be my guests."They laughed, and thought he was jesting with them. He but placed hiswooden table in the middle of the room, and said, "Table be set."Instantly it was covered with food, so good that the host could never haveprocured it, and the smell of it ascended pleasantly to the nostrils ofthe guests."Fall to, dear friends," said the joiner, and the guests when they sawthat he meant it, did not need to be asked twice, but drew near, pulledout their knives and attacked it valiantly. And what surprised them themost was that when a dish became empty, a full one instantly took itsplace of its own accord.The innkeeper stood in one corner and watched the affair. He did not atall know what to say, but thought, "You could easily find a use for such acook as that in your household."The joiner and his comrades made merry until late into the night. Atlength they lay down to sleep, and the young journeyman also went to bed,and set his magic table against the wall. The host's thoughts, however,let him have no rest. It occurred to him that there was a little old tablein his backroom which looked just like the journeyman's and he brought itout, and carefully exchanged it for the wishing table. Next morning thejoiner paid for his bed, took up his table, never thinking that he had gota false one, and went his way.At midday he reached his father, who received him with great joy."Well, my dear son, what have you learned?" he said to him."Father, I have become a joiner.""A good trade," replied the old man. "But what have you brought backwith you from your apprenticeship?""Father, the best thing which I have brought back with me is thislittle table."The tailor inspected it on all sides and said, "You did not make amasterpiece when you made this. It is a bad old table.""But it is a table be set," replied the son. "When I set it out, andtell it to set itself, the most beautiful dishes immediately appear on it,and wine also, which gladdens the heart. Just invite all our relatives andfriends. They shall refresh and enjoy themselves for once, for the tablewill fill them all."When the company was assembled, he put his table in the middle of theroom and said, "Table be set," but the little table did not move, andremained just as bare as any other table which does not understandlanguage. Then the poor journeyman became aware that his table had beenchanged, and was ashamed at having to stand there like a liar. Therelatives, however, mocked him, and were forced to go home without havingeaten or drunk.The father brought out his scraps again, and went on tailoring, but theson found work with a master joiner.The second son had gone to a miller and had apprenticed himself to him.When his years were over, the master said, "As you have conducted yourselfso well, I give you a donkey of a peculiar kind, which neither draws acart nor carries a sack.""What good is he then?" asked the young journeyman."He spews forth gold," answered the miller. "If you set him on a clothand say 'Bricklebrit,' the good animal will spew forth gold pieces for youfrom back and front.""That is a fine thing," said the journeyman, and thanked the master,and went out into the world. When he had need of gold, he had only to say"Bricklebrit" to his donkey, and it rained gold pieces, and he had nothingto do but pick them off the ground. Wherever he went, the best ofeverything was good enough for him, and the more expensive the better, forhe had always a full purse. When he had looked about the world for sometime, he thought, "You must seek out your father. If you go to him withthe gold donkey he will forget his anger, and receive you well."It came to pass that he came to the same inn in which his brother'stable had been exchanged. He led his donkey by the bridle, and the hostwas about to take the animal from him and tie him up, but the youngjourneyman said, "Don't trouble yourself, I will take my nag into thestable, and tie him up myself too, for I must know where he is."This struck the host as odd, and he thought that a man who was forcedto look after his donkey himself, could not have much to spend. But whenthe stranger put his hand in his pocket and brought out two gold pieces,and said he was to provide something good for him, the host opened hiseyes wide, and ran and sought out the best he could muster. After dinnerthe guest asked what he owed. The innkeeper did not see why he should notdouble the bill, and said the journeyman must give two more gold pieces.He felt in his pocket, but his gold was just at an end."Wait an instant, sir," said he, "I will go and fetch some money." Buthe took the tablecloth with him. The innkeeper could not imagine what thismeant, and being curious, stole after him, and as the guest bolted thestable door, he peeped through a hole left by a knot in the wood.The stranger spread out the cloth under the animal and cried,"Bricklebrit," and immediately the beast began to let gold pieces fallfrom back and front, so that it fairly rained down money onto the ground."Eh, my word," said the innkeeper. "Ducats are quickly coined there. Apurse like that is not bad." The guest paid his bill and went to bed, butin the night the innkeeper stole down into the stable, led away the masterof the mint, and tied up another donkey in his place.Early next morning the journeyman traveled away with his donkey, andthought that he had his gold donkey. At midday he reached his father, whorejoiced to see him again, and gladly took him in."What have you made of yourself, my son?" asked the old man."A miller, dear father," he answered."What have you brought back with you from your travels.""Nothing else but a donkey.""There are donkeys enough here," said the father, "I would rather havehad a good goat.""Yes," replied the son, "but it is no common donkey, but a gold donkey.When I say 'Bricklebrit' the good beast spews forth a whole sheetful ofgold pieces. Just summon all our relatives here, and I will make them richfolks.""That suits me well," said the tailor, "for then I shall have no needto torment myself any longer with the needle," and he himself ran out andcalled the relatives together. As soon as they were assembled, the millerbade them make way, spread out his cloth, and brought the donkey into theroom."Now watch," said he, and cried, "Bricklebrit," but what fell were notgold pieces, and it was clear that the animal knew nothing of the art, fornot every donkey attains such perfection. Then the poor miller made a longface, saw that he had been betrayed, and begged pardon of the relatives,who went home as poor as they came. There was no help for it, the old manhad to take up his needle once more, and the youth hired himself to amiller.The third brother had apprenticed himself to a turner, and as that isskilled labor, he was the longest in learning. His brothers, however, toldhim in a letter how badly things had gone with them, and how the innkeeperhad cheated them of their beautiful wishing gifts on the last eveningbefore they reached home. When the turner had served his time, and wasabout to set forth, as he had conducted himself so well, his masterpresented him with a sack saying, "There is a cudgel in it.""I can take the sack with me," said he, "and it may serve me well, butwhy should the cudgel be in it. It only makes it heavy.""I will tell you why," replied the master. "If anyone has done anythingto injure you, do but say, 'Cudgel out of the sack,' and the cudgel willleap forth among the people, and play such a dance on their backs thatthey will not be able to stir or move for a week. And it will not quituntil you say, 'Cudgel into the sack.'"The journeyman thanked him, and put the sack on his back, and whenanyone came too near him and wished to attack him, he said, "Cudgel out ofthe sack," and instantly the cudgel sprang out and beat the dust out oftheir coats and jackets, right on their backs, not waiting until they hadtaken them off, and it was done so quickly, that before anyone was aware,it was already his own turn.In the evening the young turner reached the inn where his brothers hadbeen cheated. He laid his sack on the table before him, and began to talkof all the wonderful things which he had seen in the world. "Yes," saidhe, "table be sets, gold donkeys, and things of that kind   extremelygood things which I by no means despise   but these are nothing incomparison with the treasure which I have obtained and am carrying aboutwith me here in my sack."The innkeeper pricked up his ears. "What in the world can that be?" hethought. "The sack must be filled with nothing but jewels. I ought to getthem cheap too, for all good things come in threes."When it was time for sleep, the guest stretched himself out on thebench, laying his sack beneath him for a pillow. When the innkeeperthought his guest was lying in a sound sleep, he went to him and pushedand pulled quite gently and carefully at the sack to see if he couldpossibly take it away and lay another in its place.The turner, however, had been waiting for this for a long time, and nowjust as the innkeeper was about to give a hearty tug, he cried, "Cudgelout of the sack!"Instantly the little cudgel came forth, and falling on the innkeepergave him a sound thrashing. The innkeeper cried for mercy, but the louderhe cried, the harder the cudgel beat the time on his back, until at lengthhe fell to the ground exhausted.Then the turner said, "If you do not give back the table be set and thegold donkey, the dance shall start again from the beginning.""Oh, no!" cried the innkeeper, quite humbly, "I will gladly giveeverything back, only make the accursed kobold creep back into thesack."Then the journeyman said, "I will let mercy take the place of justice,but beware of getting into mischief again" Then he cried, "Cudgel into thesack," and let him rest.Next morning the turner went home to his father with the table be set,and the gold donkey. The tailor rejoiced when he saw him once more, andasked him likewise what he had learned in foreign parts. "Dear father,"said he, "I have become a turner.""A skilled trade," said the father. "What have you brought back withyou from your travels?""A precious thing, dear father," replied the son, "a cudgel in thesack.""What!" cried the father, "A cudgel! That's worth your trouble! Fromevery tree you can cut yourself one.""But not one like this, dear father. If I say, 'Cudgel out of thesack,' the cudgel springs out and leads anyone ill disposed toward me aweary dance, and never stops until he lies on the ground and prays forfair weather. Look you, with this cudgel have I rescued the table be setand the gold donkey which the thievish innkeeper took away from mybrothers. Now let them both be sent for, and invite all our relatives. Iwill give them to eat and to drink, and will fill their pockets with goldas well."The old tailor had not much confidence. Nevertheless he summoned therelatives together. Then the turner spread a cloth in the room and led inthe gold donkey, and said to his brother, "Now, dear brother, speak tohim."The miller said, "Bricklebrit," and instantly the gold pieces raineddown on the cloth like a cloudburst, and the donkey did not stop untilevery one of them had so much that he could carry no more. (I can see byyour face that you would have liked to be there as well.)Then the turner brought out the little table and said, "Now, dearbrother, speak to it." And scarcely had the joiner said, "Table be set,"than it was spread and amply covered with the most exquisite dishes. Thensuch a meal took place as the good tailor had never yet known in hishouse, and the whole party of relatives stayed together until afternightfall, and were all merry and glad. The tailor locked his needle andthread and yardstick and pressing iron into a chest, and lived with histhree sons in joy and splendor.What, however, happened to the goat who was to blame for the tailordriving out his three sons? That I will tell you.She was ashamed that she had a bald head, and ran to a fox's hole andcrept into it. When the fox came home, he was met by two great eyesshining out of the darkness, and was terrified and ran away. A bear methim, and as the fox looked quite disturbed, he said, "What is the matterwith you, Brother Fox, why do you look like that?""Ah," answered Redskin, "a fierce beast is in my cave and stared at mewith its fiery eyes.""We will soon drive him out," said the bear, and went with him to thecave and looked in, but when he saw the fiery eyes, fear seized on himlikewise. He would have nothing to do with the furious beast, and took tohis heels.The bee met him, and as she saw that he was ill at ease, she said,"Bear, you are really pulling a very pitiful face. What has become of allyour cheerfulness?""It is all very well for you to talk," replied the bear. "A furiousbeast with staring eyes is in Redskin's house, and we can't drive himout."The bee said, "Bear, I pity you. I am a poor weak creature whom youwould not turn aside to look at, but still, I believe I can help you." Sheflew into the fox's cave, lit on the goat's smoothly shorn head, and stungher so violently, that she sprang up, crying "meh, meh," and ran forthinto the world as if mad, and to this hour no one knows where she hasgone.