Children must often have wondered why jelly fishes have no shells, likeso many of the creatures that are washed up every day on the beach. Inold times this was not so. the jelly fish had as hard a shell as anyof them, but he lost it through his own fault, as may be seen in thisstory.The sea queen Otohime, whom you read of in the story of Uraschimatoro,grew suddenly very ill. The swiftest messengers were sent hurrying tofetch the best doctors from every country under the sea, but it was allof no use. the queen grew rapidly worse instead of better. Everyone hadalmost given up hope, when one day a doctor arrived who was clevererthan the rest, and said that the only thing that would cure her was theliver of an ape. Now apes do not dwell under the sea, so a council ofthe wisest heads in the nation was called to consider the question how aliver could be obtained. At length it was decided that the turtle, whoseprudence was well known, should swim to land and contrive to catch aliving ape and bring him safely to the ocean kingdom.It was easy enough for the council to entrust this mission to theturtle, but not at all so easy for him to fulfil it. However he swam toa part of the coast that was covered with tall trees, where he thoughtthe apes were likely to be. for he was old, and had seen many things. Itwas some time before he caught sight of any monkeys, and he often grewtired with watching for them, so that one hot day he fell fast asleep,in spite of all his efforts to keep awake. By and by some apes, whohad been peeping at him from the tops of the trees, where they had beencarefully hidden from the turtle's eyes, stole noiselessly down, andstood round staring at him, for they had never seen a turtle before, anddid not know what to make of it. At last one young monkey, bolder thanthe rest, stooped down and stroked the shining shell that the strangenew creature wore on its back. The movement, gentle though it was, wokethe turtle. With one sweep he seized the monkey's hand in his mouth, andheld it tight, in spite of every effort to pull it away. The other apes,seeing that the turtle was not to be trifled with, ran off, leavingtheir young brother to his fate.Then the turtle said to the monkey, 'If you will be quiet, and do whatI tell you, I won't hurt you. But you must get on my back and come withme.'The monkey, seeing there was no help for it, did as he was bid. indeedhe could not have resisted, as his hand was still in the turtle's mouth.Delighted at having secured his prize, the turtle hastened back to theshore and plunged quickly into the water. He swam faster than he hadever done before, and soon reached the royal palace. Shouts of joy brokeforth from the attendants when he was seen approaching, and some of themran to tell the queen that the monkey was there, and that before longshe would be as well as ever she was. In fact, so great was their reliefthat they gave the monkey such a kind welcome, and were so anxious tomake him happy and comfortable, that he soon forgot all the fears thathad beset him as to his fate, and was generally quite at his ease,though every now and then a fit of home sickness would come over him,and he would hide himself in some dark corner till it had passed away.It was during one of these attacks of sadness that a jelly fish happenedto swim by. At that time jelly fishes had shells. At the sight of thegay and lively monkey crouching under a tall rock, with his eyes closedand his head bent, the jelly fish was filled with pity, and stopped,saying, 'Ah, poor fellow, no wonder you weep. a few days more, and theywill come and kill you and give your liver to the queen to eat.'The monkey shrank back horrified at these words and asked the jelly fishwhat crime he had committed that deserved death.'Oh, none at all,' replied the jelly fish, 'but your liver is the onlything that will cure our queen, and how can we get at it without killingyou? You had better submit to your fate, and make no noise about it, forthough I pity you from my heart there is no way of helping you.' Then hewent away, leaving the ape cold with horror.At first he felt as if his liver was already being taken from his body,but soon he began to wonder if there was no means of escaping thisterrible death, and at length he invented a plan which he thought woulddo. For a few days he pretended to be gay and happy as before, but whenthe sun went in, and rain fell in torrents, he wept and howled from dawnto dark, till the turtle, who was his head keeper, heard him, and cameto see what was the matter. Then the monkey told him that before he lefthome he had hung his liver out on a bush to dry, and if it was alwaysgoing to rain like this it would become quite useless. And the roguemade such a fuss and moaning that he would have melted a heart of stone,and nothing would content him but that somebody should carry him back toland and let him fetch his liver again.The queen's councillors were not the wisest of people, and they decidedbetween them that the turtle should take the monkey back to his nativeland and allow him to get his liver off the bush, but desired the turtlenot to lose sight of his charge for a single moment. The monkey knewthis, but trusted to his power of beguiling the turtle when the timecame, and mounted on his back with feelings of joy, which he was,however, careful to conceal. They set out, and in a few hours werewandering about the forest where the ape had first been caught, andwhen the monkey saw his family peering out from the tree tops, he swunghimself up by the nearest branch, just managing to save his hind legfrom being seized by the turtle. He told them all the dreadful thingsthat had happened to him, and gave a war cry which brought the rest ofthe tribe from the neighbouring hills. At a word from him they rushedin a body to the unfortunate turtle, threw him on his back, and tore offthe shield that covered his body. Then with mocking words they huntedhim to the shore, and into the sea, which he was only too thankful toreach alive. Faint and exhausted he entered the queen's palace for thecold of the water struck upon his naked body, and made him feel illand miserable. But wretched though he was, he had to appear before thequeen's advisers and tell them all that had befallen him, and how he hadsuffered the monkey to escape. But, as sometimes happens, the turtle wasallowed to go scot free, and had his shell given back to him, and allthe punishment fell on the poor jelly fish, who was condemned by thequeen to go shieldless for ever after.(Japanische Marchen.)