At the time when there was nothing in the Harz but virgin forest, aknight came here to hunt. Before he could orient himself, he became lost,and he wandered about for several days without finding a path.Finally he came upon a beautiful castle situated in a large meadow andsurrounded with water. A pathway led to a drawbridge, which had beensuspended.He called out. he whistled. he waited. He didn't hear anything fromwithin. It was as though the castle had died out."Wait," he thought. "The castle cannot be empty. Someone will have toappear shortly. Just sit here and wait until someone comes." So he sat andwaited, but the castle remained silent. Finally his patience wore out, andhe was just making preparations to leave when he saw a beautiful girlemerge from the forest and walk toward the bridge."Wait," he thought. "She knows her way around here. She is goinginside." And that is what happened. When she was within a few steps ofhim, he spoke to her, telling her that he had lost his way in the HarzForest, that he had camped out eight days in the open, and that he waseager at last to spend a night under a proper roof. He had already sathere for three hours asking for admission, but no one had shown himself orlet himself be heard. Further, he asked if she would be so good to askpermission for him to enter once she was inside.She said that that would not be necessary. He could come with her. Shedid not need to ask anyone for permission, for she herself was in chargehere. With that she stepped on a stone that was mortared into the earth infront of the bridge, and the bridge immediately descended. Then she tookout a large key and unlocked the gate. Together they walked through a largecourtyard and into the castle.She led the knight into a beautiful room and asked him to make himselfcomfortable. She told him that before anything else, she wanted to go andprepare a proper evening meal. Surely he would like something hot to eat,she said, adding that she too was hungry. Because she had no servants, shewould have to take care of everything by herself.With that she left the room. A short time later she returned with abeautiful roast, cakes, and many other delicious things. She set the tableand invited her guest to help himself. He did not need to be asked asecond time.After they had eaten, they sat together and talked with one another.The knight said that he felt sorry for the friendly girl, because shelived here all alone, observing that time must pass very slowly for her."Oh no," she said. "Time does not pass slowly for me," adding thatnonetheless she sometimes did wish for company, but if she did not haveany, she could still manage just fine.The knight answered that if she did not mind, he would stay here a fewdays and keep her company.The hostess replied that she would be happy if he would do so.The guest remained one, two, three days, and they became so accustomedto one another that in the end the knight asked her if she did not want tobecome his wife. The girl was pleased with this, and she said that shewould love to do so, if he would only promise her that every Friday shewould be able to go out and do whatever she wanted to, and that he wouldnot try to follow her or look after her. This he promised her, and theybecame a couple.They lived together a long time, satisfied with one another. Theyproduced lovely children, and in their happiness they lacked nothing.One day a strange knight came and was given lodging. It was on aFriday, and he asked about the lady of the house, because she had not madean appearance. The master of the house told him that his wife was never tobe seen on a Friday, and that he   in keeping with his promise   hadnever sought after her. With that the strange knight asked what kind of ahousewife would not tell her husband where she could be found. Nothinggood could come from such behavior.This conversation so alarmed the master of the house that he immediateset out to find his wife. After a long search, he finally came to thecellar, where he found a door. Opening it, he saw his wife, half fish andhalf human, swimming in a small pond. When she saw her husband, she cast asad and serious glance at him, and then disappeared.The bewildered man went back upstairs to tell the strange knight whathe had experience, but he too had disappeared. Now the poor man realizedthat he and his wife had been cruelly deceived and victimized by thestranger.He grieved so much for his good wife that he died soon afterward. Thelovely children also died one after the other, and the castle fell intoruins. It is not even known where it formerly stood. Only the storyremains.