AN OLD CHINESE STORY.Long, long ago there lived a great Chinese Empress who succeeded herbrother the Emperor Fuki. It was the age of giants, and the EmpressJokwa, for that was her name, was twenty five feet high, nearly as tallas her brother. She was a wonderful woman, and an able ruler. There isan interesting story of how she mended a part of the broken heavens andone of the terrestrial pillars which upheld the sky, both of which weredamaged during a rebellion raised by one of King Fuki's subjects.The rebel's name was Kokai. He was twenty six feet high. His body wasentirely covered with hair, and his face was as black as iron. He was awizard and a very terrible character indeed. When the Emperor Fukidied, Kokai was bitten with the ambition to be Emperor of China, buthis plan failed, and Jokwa, the dead Emperor's sister, mounted thethrone. Kokai was so angry at being thwarted in his desire that heraised a revolt. His first act was to employ the Water Devil, whocaused a great flood to rush over the country. This swamped the poorpeople out of their homes, and when the Empress Jokwa saw the plight ofher subjects, and knew it was Kokai's fault, she declared war againsthim.Now Jokwa, the Empress, had two young warriors called Hako and Eiko,and the former she made General of the front forces. Hako was delightedthat the Empress's choice should fall on him, and he prepared himselffor battle. He took up the longest lance he could find and mounted ared horse, and was just about to set out when he heard some onegalloping hard behind him and shouting:"Hako! Stop! The general of the front forces must be I!"He looked back and saw Eiko his comrade, riding on a white horse, inthe act of unsheathing a large sword to draw upon him. Hako's anger waskindled, and as he turned to face his rival he cried:"Insolent wretch! I have been appointed by the Empress to lead thefront forces to battle. Do you dare to stop me?""Yes," answered Eiko. "I ought to lead the army. It is you who shouldfollow me."At this bold reply Hako's anger burst from a spark into a flame."Dare you answer me thus? Take that," and he lunged at him with hislance.But Eiko moved quickly aside, and at the same time, raising his sword,he wounded the head of the General's horse. Obliged to dismount, Hakowas about to rush at his antagonist, when Eiko, as quick as lightning,tore from his breast the badge of commandership and galloped away. Theaction was so quick that Hako stood dazed, not knowing what to do.The Empress had been a spectator of the scene, and she could not butadmire the quickness of the ambitious Eiko, and in order to pacify therivals she determined to appoint them both to the Generalship of thefront army.So Hako was made commander of the left wing of the front army, and Eikoof the right. One hundred thousand soldiers followed them and marchedto put down the rebel Kokai.Within a short time the two Generals reached the castle where Kokai hadfortified himself. When aware of their approach, the wizard said:"I will blow these two poor children away with one breath." (He littlethought how hard he would find the fight.)With these words Kokai seized an iron rod and mounted a black horse,and rushed forth like an angry tiger to meet his two foes.As the two young warriors saw him tearing down upon them, they said toeach other: "We must not let him escape alive," and they attacked himfrom the right and from the left with sword and with lance. But theall powerful Kokai was not to be easily beaten he whirled his iron rodround like a great water wheel, and for a long time they fought thus,neither side gaining nor losing. At last, to avoid the wizard's ironrod, Hako turned his horse too quickly. the animal's hoofs struckagainst a large stone, and in a fright the horse reared as straight onend as a screen, throwing his master to the ground.Thereupon Kokai drew his three edged sword and was about to kill theprostrate Hako, but before the wizard could work his wicked will thebrave Eiko had wheeled his horse in front of Kokai and dared him to tryhis strength with him, and not to kill a fallen man. But Kokai wastired, and he did not feel inclined to face this fresh and dauntlessyoung soldier, so suddenly wheeling his horse round, he fled from thefray.Hako, who had been only slightly stunned, had by this time got upon hisfeet, and he and his comrade rushed after the retreating enemy, the oneon foot and the other on horseback.Kokai, seeing that he was pursued, turned upon his nearest assailant,who was, of course, the mounted Eiko, and drawing forth an arrow fromthe quiver at his back, fitted it to his bow and drew upon Eiko.As quick as lightning the wary Eiko avoided the shaft, which onlytouched his helmet strings, and glancing off, fell harmless againstHako's coat of armor.The wizard saw that both his enemies remained unscathed. He also knewthat there was no time to pull a second arrow before they would be uponhim, so to save himself he resorted to magic. He stretched forth hiswand, and immediately a great flood arose, and Jokwa's army and herbrave young Generals were swept away like a falling of autumn leaves ona stream.Hako and Eiko found themselves struggling neck deep in water, andlooking round they saw the ferocious Kokai making towards them throughthe water with his iron rod on high. They thought every moment thatthey would be cut down, but they bravely struck out to swim as far asthey could from Kokai's reach. All of a sudden they found themselves infront of what seemed to be an island rising straight out of the water.They looked up, and there stood an old man with hair as white as snow,smiling at them. They cried to him to help them. The old man nodded hishead and came down to the edge of the water. As soon as his feettouched the flood it divided, and a good road appeared, to theamazement of the drowning men, who now found themselves safe.Kokai had by this time reached the island which had risen as if by amiracle out of the water, and seeing his enemies thus saved he wasfurious. He rushed through the water upon the old man, and it seemed asif he would surely be killed. But the old man appeared not in the leastdismayed, and calmly awaited the wizard's onslaught.As Kokai drew near, the old man laughed aloud merrily, and turning intoa large and beautiful white crane, flapped his wings and flew upwardsinto the heavens.When Hako and Eiko saw this, they knew that their deliverer was no merehuman being was perhaps a god in disguise and they hoped later on tofind out who the venerable old man was.In the meantime they had retreated, and it being now the close of day,for the sun was setting, both Kokai and the young warriors gave up theidea of fighting more that day.That night Hako and Eiko decided that it was useless to fight againstthe wizard Kokai, for he had supernatural powers, while they were onlyhuman. So they presented themselves before the Empress Jokwa. After along consultation, the Empress decided to ask the Fire King, Shikuyu,to help her against the rebel wizard and to lead her army against him.Now Shikuyu, the Fire King, lived at the South Pole. It was the onlysafe place for him to be in, for he burnt up everything around himanywhere else, but it was impossible to burn up ice and snow. To lookat he was a giant, and stood thirty feet high. His face was just likemarble, and his hair and beard long and as white as snow. His strengthwas stupendous, and he was master of all fire just as Kokai was ofwater."Surely," thought the Empress, "Shikuyu can conquer Kokai." So she sentEiko to the South Pole to beg Shikuyu to take the war against Kokaiinto his own hands and conquer him once for all.The Fire King, on hearing the Empress's request, smiled and said:"That is an easy matter, to be sure! It was none other than I who cameto your rescue when you and your companion were drowning in the floodraised by Kokai!"Eiko was surprised at learning this. He thanked the Fire King forcoming to the rescue in their dire need, and then besought him toreturn with him and lead the war and defeat the wicked Kokai.Shikuyu did as he was asked, and returned with Eiko to the Empress. Shewelcomed the Fire King cordially, and at once told him why she had sentfor him to ask him to be the Generalissimo of her army. His reply wasvery reassuring:"Do not have any anxiety. I will certainly kill Kokai."Shikuyu then placed himself at the head of thirty thousand soldiers,and with Hako and Eiko showing him the way, marched to the enemy'scastle. The Fire King knew the secret of Kokai's power, and he now toldall the soldiers to gather a certain kind of shrub. This they burned inlarge quantities, and each soldier was then ordered to fill a bag fullof the ashes thus obtained.Kokai, on the other hand, in his own conceit, thought that Shikuyu wasof inferior power to himself, and he murmured angrily:"Even though you are the Fire King, I can soon extinguish you."Then he repeated an incantation, and the water floods rose and welledas high as mountains. Shikuyu, not in the least frightened, ordered hissoldiers to scatter the ashes which he had caused them to make. Everyman did as he was bid, and such was the power of the plant that theyhad burned, that as soon as the ashes mingled with the water a stiffmud was formed, and they were all safe from drowning.Now Kokai the wizard was dismayed when he saw that the Fire King wassuperior in wisdom to himself, and his anger was so great that herushed headlong towards the enemy.Eiko rode to meet him, and the two fought together for some time. Theywere well matched in a hand to hand combat. Hako, who was carefullywatching the fray, saw that Eiko began to tire, and fearing that hiscompanion would be killed, he took his place.But Kokai had tired as well, and feeling him self unable to hold outagainst Hako, he said artfully:"You are too magnanimous, thus to fight for your friend and run therisk of being killed. I will not hurt such a good man."And he pretended to retreat, turning away the head of his horse. Hisintention was to throw Hako off his guard and then to wheel round andtake him by surprise.But Shikuyu understood the wily wizard, and he spoke at once:"You are a coward! You cannot deceive me!"Saying this, the Fire King made a sign to the unwary Hako to attackhim. Kokai now turned upon Shikuyu furiously, but he was tired andunable to fight well, and he soon received a wound in his shoulder. Henow broke from the fray and tried to escape in earnest.While the fight between their leaders had been going on the two armieshad stood waiting for the issue. Shikuyu now turned and bade Jokwa'ssoldiers charge the enemy's forces. This they did, and routed them withgreat slaughter, and the wizard barely escaped with his life.It was in vain that Kokai called upon the Water Devil to help him, forShikuyu knew the counter charm. The wizard found that the battle wasagainst him. Mad with pain, for his wound began to trouble him, andfrenzied with disappointment and fear, he dashed his head against therocks of Mount Shu and died on the spot.There was an end of the wicked Kokai, but not of trouble in the EmpressJokwa's Kingdom, as you shall see. The force with which the wizard fellagainst the rocks was so great that the mountain burst, and fire rushedout from the earth, and one of the pillars upholding the Heavens wasbroken so that one corner of the sky dropped till it touched the earth.Shikuyu, the Fire King, took up the body of the wizard and carried itto the Empress Jokwa, who rejoiced greatly that her enemy wasvanquished, and her generals victorious. She showered all manner ofgifts and honors upon Shikuyu.But all this time fire was bursting from the mountain broken by thefall of Kokai. Whole villages were destroyed, rice fields burnt up,river beds filled with the burning lava, and the homeless people werein great distress. So the Empress left the capital as soon as she hadrewarded the victor Shikuyu, and journeyed with all speed to the sceneof disaster. She found that both Heaven and earth had sustained damage,and the place was so dark that she had to light her lamp to find outthe extent of the havoc that had been wrought.Having ascertained this, she set to work at repairs. To this end sheordered her subjects to collect stones of five colors blue, yellow,red, white and black. When she had obtained these, she boiled them witha kind of porcelain in a large caldron, and the mixture became abeautiful paste, and with this she knew that she could mend the sky.Now all was ready.Summoning the clouds that were sailing ever so high above her head, shemounted them, and rode heavenwards, carrying in her hands the vasecontaining the paste made from the stones of five colors. She soonreached the corner of the sky that was broken, and applied the pasteand mended it. Having done this, she turned her attention to the brokenpillar, and with the legs of a very large tortoise she mended it. Whenthis was finished she mounted the clouds and descended to the earth,hoping to find that all was now right, but to her dismay she found thatit was still quite dark. Neither the sun shone by day nor the moon bynight.Greatly perplexed, she at last called a meeting of all the wise men ofthe Kingdom, and asked their advice as to what she should do in thisdilemma.Two of the wisest said:"The roads of Heaven have been damaged by the late accident, and theSun and Moon have been obliged to stay at home. Neither the Sun couldmake his daily journey nor the Moon her nightly one because of the badroads. The Sun and Moon do not yet know that your Majesty has mendedall that was damaged, so we will go and inform them that since you haverepaired them the roads are safe."The Empress approved of what the wise men suggested, and ordered themto set out on their mission. But this was not easy, for the Palace ofthe Sun and Moon was many, many hundreds of thousands of miles distantinto the East. If they traveled on foot they might never reach theplace, they would die of old age on the road. But Jokwa had recourse tomagic. She gave her two ambassadors wonderful chariots which couldwhirl through the air by magic power a thousand miles per minute. Theyset out in good spirits, riding above the clouds, and after many daysthey reached the country where the Sun and the Moon were living happilytogether.The two ambassadors were granted an interview with their Majesties ofLight and asked them why they had for so many days secluded themselvesfrom the Universe? Did they not know that by doing so they plunged theworld and all its people into uttermost darkness both day and night?Replied the Sun and the Moon:"Surely you know that Mount Shu has suddenly burst forth with fire, andthe roads of Heaven have been greatly damaged! I, the Sun, found itimpossible to make my daily journey along such rough roads andcertainly the Moon could not issue forth at night! so we both retiredinto private life for a time."Then the two wise men bowed themselves to the ground and said:"Our Empress Jokwa has already repaired the roads with the wonderfulstones of five colors, so we beg to assure your Majesties that theroads are just as they were before the eruption took place."But the Sun and the Moon still hesitated, saying that they had heardthat one of the pillars of Heaven had been broken as well, and theyfeared that, even if the roads had been remade, it would still bedangerous for them to sally forth on their usual journeys."You need have no anxiety about the broken pillar," said the twoambassadors. "Our Empress restored it with the legs of a greattortoise, and it is as firm as ever it was."Then the Sun and Moon appeared satisfied, and they both set out to trythe roads. They found that what the Empress's deputies had told themwas correct.After the examination of the heavenly roads, the Sun and Moon againgave light to the earth. All the people rejoiced greatly, and peace andprosperity were secured in China for a long time under the reign of thewise Empress Jokwa.THE END.