Ages ago there lived a king who had three good and beautiful daughterswhom he loved very much and who in turn loved him dearly. He had noprinces, but in his kingdom it was the custom that the succession of thethrone could also pass to women and daughters. Because the king's wife wasno longer alive he was free to appoint one of his daughters to the throne,and it did not need to be the oldest one.Because this king loved all of his daughters equally the decision wasvery difficult for him. He came to the conclusion to select the one whodemonstrated the keenest intellect. He shared this determination with histhree daughters, declaring that his approaching birthday would be the dayof decision. The one who would bring him "the most indispensable thing"would become queen.Each of the princesses thought about what would be the mostindispensable thing. When his birthday arrived, the oldest one approachedhim, carrying a fine purple robe, and said, "The Lord God had mankind comenaked into the world, but then he barred them from paradise. Thus robesand clothing are indispensable."The second daughter brought a loaf of fresh bread that she herself hadbaked. It was lying on top of a filled beaker made of gold. "Food anddrink are the most indispensable things for mankind, born from dust, forwithout these they cannot live. Thus God created the fruits of the field,fruit, berries, and grapes, and taught mankind to make bread and wine, thesacred symbols of his love."The youngest daughter brought a pile of salt on a wooden plate, saying,"My father, I consider salt and wood to be the most indispensable. Ancientpeoples paid sacred homage to the trees and considered salt to be holy.The king was very surprised with these gifts. Thinking about them, hesaid, "Purple is the most indispensable thing for a king, for if he hasit, he has everything else. If he loses it, then he is no longer king andis as common as other humans. Because you have perceived this, my oldestand beloved daughter, after me you shall be decorated with royal purple.Come to me and receive my thanks and my blessing!"After kissing and blessing his oldest daughter, he said to the secondoldest, "Eating and drinking are not altogether necessary, my good child,and they draw us down entirely too much into commonness. They are a signof mediocrity and of the masses. I cannot hinder you if you find pleasuretherein, nor can I thank you for your poorly chosen gift, but you shall beblessed for your good will." Then the king blessed his daughter, but hedid not kiss her.Then he turned to the third princess, who was standing there pale andtrembling. After what she had seen and heard, she sensed what was to come."My daughter, on your wooden plate you may well have some salt, but inyour brain you have none," said the king. "You are still alive, andtherefore salt is not indispensable. One does not need salt. With yoursalt you are showing the sense of a peasant, not the sense of a king. AndI take no pleasure on that stiff wooden thing. Thus I can neither thankyou nor bless you. Go away from me, as far as your feet will carry you. Goto the stupid and coarse people who worship old blocks of wood and treelimbs instead of the living God, and who consider common salt to besacred."Crying, the youngest princess then turned away from her hard father,and walked far, far away from the court and the royal city, as far as herfeet would carry her.She came to an inn and offered her services to the female innkeeper.The innkeeper was touched by her humility, innocence, youth, and beauty,and she took her in as a maid. The princess soon mastered all thehousehold duties, and the innkeeper said, "It would be a pity if the girldid not learn a decent skill. I'll teach her to cook."And thus the princess learned to cook. She grasped everything quickly,and soon could cook some dishes even better and more delicious than theteacher herself. Business improved at the inn because of the good cookingthere, and the good cook's reputation   who was also so young and sobeautiful   spread throughout the entire land.Now it came to pass that this cook's father's oldest daughter was aboutto be married. A royal wedding was to be held, and it was recommended tobring the famous cook to the court to prepare the feast, for the lords atthe royal court, the marshals, the royal wine stewards, the royal diningstewards, the masters of ceremony, the chamberlains, and otherexcellencies did not share the view that their most gracious lord the kinghad once expressed, that eating and drinking were not altogether necessaryand that they draw us down to commonness. To the contrary, they praisedall good food and fine wine and honored   at least inwardly   that oldand true proverb, "Eating and drinking hold body and soul together."The wedding meal was deliciously prepared, nor was the king's favoritedish lacking, which had been specially ordered by the royal diningsteward. The meal was served. There came one dish after the other, andeach was highly praised.Finally came the king's favorite dish, and it was served first to him.He tried it and found it completely tasteless. His cheerful mood darkened,and he spoke to the chamberlain standing behind his golden armchair, "Thisdish is ruined! It is terrible! Stop the platters from being passedaround, and summon the cook!"The cook entered the magnificent hall, and the king addressed her, "Youhave ruined my favorite dish. You have spoiled my pleasure by not puttingany salt in my favorite dish!"Then the cook fell at the king's feet, saying with humility, "Havemercy, your majesty, my royal lord, and forgive me! How could I have daredto mix salt into your food? Did I not once hear from a lofty king's ownmouth the words, " One does not need salt. Salt is not indispensable. Saltshows only the sense of a peasant, not the sense of a king!"With shame the king recognized these words as his own and the cook ashis daughter. Lifting her from the floor where she was kneeling, he drewher to his heart. He then told all the wedding guests her story and hadhis youngest daughter once again be seated by his side.Then the wedding became doubly joyful, and the king was once againentirely happy with his daughter's love.Salt is holy.