Once upon a time there was an emperor who had a daughter with three birthmarks on her body: on her forehead one shaped like a star, on her bosom one shaped like the sun, and on her knee one shaped like the moon.When she reached the age of marriage she said to her father that she would marry only the man who could guess what her birthmarks were, be he the poorest man in the world, even a beggar. If he could guess her birthmarks, she would marry him.This proclamation was made to the whole world, and many emperors and kings sought her hand, but none could guess what the birthmarks were.One day she was walking with her maidens in waiting when they met a poor lad who was tending a sow with three suckling piglets.Seeing the cute piglets, she stepped aside from the other maidens and approached the swineherd, who was standing near the sow, and asked him, "Would you give me one of the sow's piglets?""Yes, and as payment you will only have to loosen your veil so I can see your face."Suspecting nothing, the emperor's daughter uncovered her face, and the swineherd saw the birthmark on her forehead. He then caught a piglet and handed it to her. She returned home happily, accompanied by the other maidens.When in the evening the swineherd drove the sow with two piglets home, his father accosted him with curse words: "Where is the other piglet? Damn you!"Not wanting to admit what had happened, he said that he had taken a nap and that the piglet had disappeared while he was asleep.Meanwhile the emperor's daughter showed the piglet that she had won to her father and mother, and it was so cute that they both fell in love with it immediately. They told their daughter that it would be good if she could get another one, to which she answered that the swineherd had two more.Thus the next day she again went out with her maidens in waiting, found the swineherd, and asked for another piglet. The lad agreed, on the condition that she would let him see her bosom. She immediately undid her bodice, and after he had seen the birthmark on her breast he gave her the second piglet.The delighted princess hurried home with the piglet, and the swineherd returned to his home with the sow and only one piglet. His father scolded him even more severely than before.On the third day the princess went out once again and asked the swineherd for the third piglet. He promised it to her if she would uncover her legs and let him see her knees. This she did, and after seeing the birthmark he gave her the third piglet. Then she returned to her home, and he to his. and his parents scolded him all the more severely.Some time later the lad asked his mother to bake a flatbread, roast a chicken, fill a bottle with wine, and prepare a bunch of basil for him. She did this, then put it all into a knapsack.He threw the knapsack over his shoulders and went on his way, saying to his mother as he left, "Mother, I'm going to the emperor's daughter to guess her birthmarks. Perhaps I'll be lucky, and with God's help will guess them."His mother replied, "Oh, my child, we will never be so lucky!"To which he said, "I have hope, if God is willing."Thus he made his way to the emperor's court, where a Turk had arrived, also wanting to guess the princess's birthmarks.Both were taken before the princess, and the Turk said to the swineherd, "My friend, you speak first. I already know what I am going to say."With this the lad began: "Maiden, do you have a star on your forehead?"These words had barely escaped his lips when the Turk said, "My goodness, we have the same thoughts!"The maiden took off her veil and said to the lad, "You guessed right. Continue. What kind of birthmark do I have on my breast?"The youth answered: "A sun."And the Turk interrupted, "So help me, I was about to say the same thing."The maiden uncovered her breast and said to the youth, "You were right on that one as well. Now tell me, what do I have on my knee?"The youth: "A moon."The Turk: "By my holy faith, what will we do now? I knew that as well."Thus there was confusion as to who should get the maiden. She, of course preferred the Turk, who was a handsome, well dressed young man, whereas the swineherd was standing there in tattered clothes. Finally it was decided that the two of them should spend the night with the maiden. Whoever she was facing the next morning would be the winner. That evening they all went to bed, and the maiden turned to face the Turk. Then the swineherd got up and went outside.The princess said to the Turk, "Follow him, and whatever he does, you should do as well."Once outside, the swineherd squatted down in the dark, took the flatbread, the roasted chicken, and the wine out of his knapsack, then began to eat and drink.In the darkness, the Turk thought that he saw the swineherd doing that which even the emperor has to get out his saddle to do, so he too squatted down and strained until he had relieved himself.Meanwhile the Turk noticed that the swineherd was eating something, and thinking that he was eating his own dung, the Turk began to eat what he himself had just left on the ground. After eating all he wanted, the swineherd rubbed the basil over his face. Thinking that the swineherd was rubbing filth on his face, the Turk did the same thing with rest of his own dung.With this the two of them returned to the princess: one at her one side, the other at her other side. Once again the maiden turned to face the Turk, but unable to stand the stink of the dung, she immediately turned toward the swineherd, who smelled like basil. When they looked in on her in the morning she was still facing him.The swineherd remained at court as the emperor's son in law. He sent for his father and mother, and they all lived there happily until they died.