There was a wayward priest who had fallen for a smith's wife, and she for him. They feared that the husband might notice something, so the priest came up with a plan to get the smith out of the way.Thus one day the priest went to the nobleman and said, "In your village there is a very talented smith who can make anything that he wants to. His skill is so great that within one night he could build a palace in your courtyard. However, you will have to threaten him with body and soul, otherwise he will refuse."The nobleman summoned the smith and said, "I have heard so much about your skill that I want to put it to the test. Build a palace for me in my courtyard, and it must be finished in one night.""Oh God," said the smith, "that is not possible. I cannot do that.""I am telling you," cried the nobleman, "if the palace is not finished by tomorrow morning I shall have you hanged without mercy."The smith sadly returned home to his wife. "Wife," he said, "I am supposed to build a palace for the nobleman tonight, and if I do not succeed I am to die."The wife said, "The only thing that you can do is to go away this very evening.""Yes," he said, "I'd sooner go away as far as my feet can carry me than to lose my life."So he tied together a bundle, sadly took leave of his wife, and went on his way, thinking that he would never return. And that is just what his wife and the priest wanted.At nightfall the smith came into a forest where he was met by a gray man who greeted him and asked, "Where to, my dear smith?""Oh," said the smith, "I was supposed to build a palace for the nobleman tonight. He commanded me to do this under the threat of death, and because I am unable to do so I am running away as far as my feet can carry me.""Just go back home," said the gray man. "I shall take care of things for you. The palace will be finished tomorrow morning in due time."So the smith returned home to his wife. She was just about to fetch the priest when she saw her husband approaching, and she cried out with surprise, "Oh God, you have come back home. What will happen when the palace is not finished in the morning?""Let happen what will happen," said the smith. "I cannot stand being away from you and from home for so long." With that he went to bed and fell asleep.The next morning the nobleman arose very early and looked out his window. He could scarcely believe his eyes, for a magnificent palace was standing there, glistening in the first rays of morning sunshine.When the priest learned what had happened and saw that his plan had failed, he went back to the nobleman and said, "Now you know how skilled the smith is. This time tell him to bring a himphamp to the palace before tomorrow morning. You have to command him under the threat of body and soul, or he will not do it."Then the nobleman summoned the smith to appear before him a second time, saying, "You built the palace entirely to my satisfaction. now you must bring a himphamp to the palace by tomorrow morning. With your skill that should be an easy task for you.""My lord," said the smith, "how can I bring you a himphamp when I don't even know what one is? I cannot do it.""That makes no difference," said the nobleman. "If there is no himphamp before my palace tomorrow morning I shall have you hanged without mercy."Then the smith sadly went back home to his wife. "Oh God, wife," he said, "now the nobleman wants me to get a himphamp by tomorrow morning, and if I cannot do so he will have me hanged without mercy."The wife said, "The only thing that you can do is to go away this very evening.""Yes," he said, "I'd sooner go away as far as my feet can carry me than to lose my life."So he tied together a bundle, sadly took leave of his wife, and went on his way, thinking that he would never return. That is just what his unfaithful wife and the priest wanted, and the smith had scarcely left when the priest sneaked into his house to be with the wife.Meanwhile the smith once again came into the woods and was again was met by the gray man, who asked, "Where to, my dear smith?""Oh," said the smith, "now that the nobleman has the palace he also wants a himphamp, and because I cannot get one for him I am going as far as my feet can carry me.""No one other than the priest has put him up to this," said the gray man. "He wants your wife and is trying to get you out of the way. Just go back home. The two of them are there together, and when you see the priest giving your wife a kiss, just say 'Hold fast!' Then take your whip and drive the two of them out of your house along the street to the nobleman's palace. Whenever anyone comes and tries to pull them apart, just say 'Hold fast!" and they will all be stuck together until you say 'Let go!' That will turn into a wonderful himphamp."The smith thanked the gray man and returned home. It was early morning when he arrived at his village, and he sneaked into his house just as the priest was giving his wife a kiss."Hold fast!" cried the smith.Hearing the smith's voice, the priest tried to run away, but   oh dear!   it was as if he were glued to the woman. Then the smith took his whip from the wall and drove the two of them out of the house and along the street. They came to the priest's house just as his servant girl with her apron full of hay was about to feed the cow. Seeing her master in a bad situation she quickly ran up and took hold of him in order to get him into his own house, so that no one would see his shame."Hold fast!" cried the smith, and the priest's servant girl stuck to the others and had to go along with them.At the same time a herder boy came by, playing his pipe and driving his herd along before him. An old cow wanted to eat the hay that the priest's servant girl was carrying in her apron."Hold fast!" cried the smith, and the old cow also stuck to the others and had to go along with them.All this was seen by a baker who had just heated his oven and was about to rake out the coals. He quickly ran up and hit the cow with his long oven rake."Hold fast!" cried the smith, and the baker with his long oven rake also stuck to the others and had to go along with them.That morning the nobleman got up early. he looked out the window into the courtyard just as the smith came up with his himphamp.When he saw it the nobleman began to laugh, and said, "You have done well, my dear smith. That is a wonderful himphamp that you have brought to me, but turn them loose now, so they can go back home."Then the smith said, "Let go!" and with that they all ran back where they had come from: the priest, the wife, the servant girl, the cow, and the baker with his long oven rake. However, the priest was so shamed that he never again returned to the smith's house.