Frame StoryFive cunning women meet a handsome but naive Brahmin at a well in Benares (Veranasi), India, then lead him into a series of compromising situations, each claiming to be a lesson from the Tirrea Bede , (the fifth Veda), although in truth the Hindus recognize only four such sacred texts.Story 8The fourth lady, ... having bestowed her attention on the pilgrim Brahmin, dispatched him to an orchard. and having gone home, said to her wise husband, "I have heard that in the orchard of a certain husbandman, there is a date tree, the fruit of which is of remarkably fine flavour. but what is yet stranger, whoever ascends it, sees many wonderful objects. If today, going to visit this orchard, we gather dates from this tree, and also see the wonders of it, it will not be unproductive of amusement."In short, she so worked upon her husband with flattering speeches and caresses, that nolens volens (unwillingly or willingly) he went to the orchard, and at the instigation of his wife, ascended the tree. At this instant she beckoned to the Brahmin, who was previously seated, expectantly, in a corner of the garden.The husband, from the top of the tree, beholding what was not fit to be seen, exclaimed in extreme rage, "Ah! thou shameless Russian born wretch, what abominable action is this?" ( footnote )The wife making not the least answer, the flames of anger seized the mind of the man, and he began to descend from the tree. when the Brahmin with activity and speed having hurried over the fourth section of the Tirrea Bede, went his way.VERSE.The road to repose is that of activity, and quickness!The wife, during her husband's descent from the tree having arranged her plan, said, "Surely, man, frenzy must have deprived thy brain of the fumes of sense, that having foolishly set up such a cry, and not reflecting. Upon thy own disgrace, (for here, excepting thyself, what male is present ?) thou wou'dst fix upon me the charge of infidelity?"The husband, when he saw no person near, was astonished, and said to himself, "Certainly, this vision must have been miraculous."The completely artful wife, from the hesitation of her husband, guessed the cause, and impudently began to abuse him. Then instantly tying her vest round her waist, she ascended the tree. When she had reached the topmost branch, she suddenly cried out, "O thou shameless man, what abominable action is this! If thy evil star hath led thee from the path of virtue, surely thou mightest have in secret ventured upon it. Doubtless to pull down the curtain of modesty from thy eyes, and with such impudence to commit such a wicked deed, is the very extreme of debauchery."The husband replied, "Woman, do not thus ridiculously cry out, but be silent. for such is the property of this tree, that whoever ascends it, sees man or woman below in such situations."The cunning wife now came down, and said to her husband, "What a charming garden and amusing spot is this! where one can gather fruit, and at the same time behold the wonders of the world."The husband replied, "Destruction seize the wonders which falsely accuse man of abomination!"In short, the devilish wife, notwithstanding the impudence of such an action, escaped safely to her house. and the next day, according to custom, attending at the well, introduced the Brahmin to the ladies, and informed them of her worthy contrivance.