ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen whose children had alldied, first one and then another, until at last only one little daughterremained, and the Queen was at her wits' end to know where to find areally good nurse who would take care of her, and bring her up. A heraldwas sent who blew a trumpet at every street corner, and commanded allthe best nurses to appear before the Queen, that she might choose onefor the little Princess. So on the appointed day the whole palace wascrowded with nurses, who came from the four corners of the world tooffer themselves, until the Queen declared that if she was ever to seethe half of them, they must be brought out to her, one by one, as shesat in a shady wood near the palace.This was accordingly done, and the nurses, after they had made theircurtsey to the King and Queen, ranged themselves in a line before herthat she might choose. Most of them were fair and fat and charming,but there was one who was dark skinned and ugly, and spoke a strangelanguage which nobody could understand. The Queen wondered how she daredoffer herself, and she was told to go away, as she certainly would notdo. Upon which she muttered something and passed on, but hid herself ina hollow tree, from which she could see all that happened. The Queen,without giving her another thought, chose a pretty rosy faced nurse,but no sooner was her choice made than a snake, which was hidden inthe grass, bit that very nurse on her foot, so that she fell down asif dead. The Queen was very much vexed by this accident, but she soonselected another, who was just stepping forward when an eagle flew byand dropped a large tortoise upon her head, which was cracked in pieceslike an egg shell. At this the Queen was much horrified. nevertheless,she chose a third time, but with no better fortune, for the nurse,moving quickly, ran into the branch of a tree and blinded herself with athorn. Then the Queen in dismay cried that there must be some malignantinfluence at work, and that she would choose no more that day. and shehad just risen to return to the palace when she heard peals of maliciouslaughter behind her, and turning round saw the ugly stranger whom shehad dismissed, who was making very merry over the disasters and mockingeveryone, but especially the Queen. This annoyed Her Majesty verymuch, and she was about to order that she should be arrested, whenthe witch for she was a witch with two blows from a wand summoned achariot of fire drawn by winged dragons, and was whirled off through theair uttering threats and cries. When the King saw this he cried:'Alas! now we are ruined indeed, for that was no other than the FairyCarabosse, who has had a grudge against me ever since I was a boy andput sulphur into her porridge one day for fun.'Then the Queen began to cry.'If I had only known who it was,' she said, 'I would have done my bestto make friends with her. now I suppose all is lost.'The King was sorry to have frightened her so much, and proposed thatthey should go and hold a council as to what was best to be done toavert the misfortunes which Carabosse certainly meant to bring upon thelittle Princess.So all the counsellors were summoned to the palace, and when they hadshut every door and window, and stuffed up every keyhole that they mightnot be overheard, they talked the affair over, and decided that everyfairy for a thousand leagues round should be invited to the christeningof the Princess, and that the time of the ceremony should be kept aprofound secret, in case the Fairy Carabosse should take it into herhead to attend it.The Queen and her ladies set to work to prepare presents for the fairieswho were invited: for each one a blue velvet cloak, a petticoat ofapricot satin, a pair of high heeled shoes, some sharp needles, and apair of golden scissors. Of all the fairies the Queen knew, only fivewere able to come on the day appointed, but they began immediatelyto bestow gifts upon the Princess. One promised that she should beperfectly beautiful, the second that she should understand anything nomatter what the first time it was explained to her, the third that sheshould sing like a nightingale, the fourth that she should succeed ineverything she undertook, and the fifth was opening her mouth to speakwhen a tremendous rumbling was heard in the chimney, and Carabosse, allcovered with soot, came rolling down, crying:'I say that she shall be the unluckiest of the unlucky until she istwenty years old.'Then the Queen and all the fairies began to beg and beseech her to thinkbetter of it, and not be so unkind to the poor little Princess, who hadnever done her any harm. But the ugly old Fairy only grunted and made noanswer. So the last Fairy, who had not yet given her gift, tried to mendmatters by promising the Princess a long and happy life after the fataltime was over. At this Carabosse laughed maliciously, and climbed awayup the chimney, leaving them all in great consternation, and especiallythe Queen. However, she entertained the fairies splendidly, and gavethem beautiful ribbons, of which they are very fond, in addition to theother presents.When they were going away the oldest Fairy said that they were ofopinion that it would be best to shut the Princess up in some place,with her waiting women, so that she might not see anyone else until shewas twenty years old. So the King had a tower built on purpose. It hadno windows, so it was lighted with wax candles, and the only way intoit was by an underground passage, which had iron doors only twenty feetapart, and guards were posted everywhere.The Princess had been named Mayblossom, because she was as fresh andblooming as Spring itself, and she grew up tall and beautiful, andeverything she did and said was charming. Every time the King and Queencame to see her they were more delighted with her than before, butthough she was weary of the tower, and often begged them to take heraway from it, they always refused. The Princess's nurse, who had neverleft her, sometimes told her about the world outside the tower, andthough the Princess had never seen anything for herself, yet she alwaysunderstood exactly, thanks to the second Fairy's gift. Often the Kingsaid to the Queen:'We were cleverer than Carabosse after all. Our Mayblossom will be happyin spite of her predictions.'And the Queen laughed until she was tired at the idea of havingoutwitted the old Fairy. They had caused the Princess's portrait to bepainted and sent to all the neighbouring Courts, for in four days shewould have completed her twentieth year, and it was time to decidewhom she should marry. All the town was rejoicing at the thought of thePrincess's approaching freedom, and when the news came that King Merlinwas sending his ambassador to ask her in marriage for his son, theywere still more delighted. The nurse, who kept the Princess informedof everything that went forward in the town, did not fail to repeat thenews that so nearly concerned her, and gave such a description of thesplendour in which the ambassador Fanfaronade would enter the town, thatthe Princess was wild to see the procession for herself.'What an unhappy creature I am,' she cried, 'to be shut up in thisdismal tower as if I had committed some crime! I have never seenthe sun, or the stars, or a horse, or a monkey, or a lion, except inpictures, and though the King and Queen tell me I am to be set free whenI am twenty, I believe they only say it to keep me amused, when theynever mean to let me out at all.'And then she began to cry, and her nurse, and the nurse's daughter, andthe cradle rocker, and the nursery maid, who all loved her dearly, criedtoo for company, so that nothing could be heard but sobs and sighs. Itwas a scene of woe. When the Princess saw that they all pitied her shemade up her mind to have her own way. So she declared that she wouldstarve herself to death if they did not find some means of letting hersee Fanfaronade's grand entry into the town.'If you really love me,' she said, 'you will manage it, somehow orother, and the King and Queen need never know anything about it.'Then the nurse and all the others cried harder than ever, and saideverything they could think of to turn the Princess from her idea.But the more they said the more determined she was, and at last theyconsented to make a tiny hole in the tower on the side that lookedtowards the city gates.After scratching and scraping all day and all night, they presentlymade a hole through which they could, with great difficulty, push a veryslender needle, and out of this the Princess looked at the daylight forthe first time. She was so dazzled and delighted by what she saw, thatthere she stayed, never taking her eyes away from the peep hole for asingle minute, until presently the ambassador's procession appeared insight.At the head of it rode Fanfaronade himself upon a white horse, whichpranced and caracoled to the sound of the trumpets. Nothing could havebeen more splendid than the ambassador's attire. His coat was nearlyhidden under an embroidery of pearls and diamonds, his boots were solidgold, and from his helmet floated scarlet plumes. At the sight of himthe Princess lost her wits entirely, and determined that Fanfaronade andnobody else would she marry.'It is quite impossible,' she said, 'that his master should be half ashandsome and delightful. I am not ambitious, and having spent all mylife in this tedious tower, anything even a house in the country willseem a delightful change. I am sure that bread and water shared withFanfaronade will please me far better than roast chicken and sweetmeatswith anybody else.'And so she went on talk, talk, talking, until her waiting womenwondered where she got it all from. But when they tried to stop her,and represented that her high rank made it perfectly impossible that sheshould do any such thing, she would not listen, and ordered them to besilent.As soon as the ambassador arrived at the palace, the Queen started tofetch her daughter.All the streets were spread with carpets, and the windows were fullof ladies who were waiting to see the Princess, and carried baskets offlowers and sweetmeats to shower upon her as she passed.They had hardly begun to get the Princess ready when a dwarf arrived,mounted upon an elephant. He came from the five fairies, and brought forthe Princess a crown, a sceptre, and a robe of golden brocade, with apetticoat marvellously embroidered with butterflies' wings. They alsosent a casket of jewels, so splendid that no one had ever seen anythinglike it before, and the Queen was perfectly dazzled when she opened it.But the Princess scarcely gave a glance to any of these treasures, forshe thought of nothing but Fanfaronade. The Dwarf was rewarded witha gold piece, and decorated with so many ribbons that it was hardlypossible to see him at all. The Princess sent to each of the fairies anew spinning wheel with a distaff of cedar wood, and the Queen said shemust look through her treasures and find something very charming to sendthem also.When the Princess was arrayed in all the gorgeous things the Dwarf hadbrought, she was more beautiful than ever, and as she walked along thestreets the people cried: 'How pretty she is! How pretty she is!'The procession consisted of the Queen, the Princess, five dozen otherprincesses her cousins, and ten dozen who came from the neighbouringkingdoms. and as they proceeded at a stately pace the sky began togrow dark, then suddenly the thunder growled, and rain and hail fellin torrents. The Queen put her royal mantle over her head, and all theprincesses did the same with their trains. Mayblossom was just about tofollow their example when a terrific croaking, as of an immense army ofcrows, rooks, ravens, screech owls, and all birds of ill omen was heard,and at the same instant a huge owl skimmed up to the Princess, andthrew over her a scarf woven of spiders' webs and embroidered with bats'wings. And then peals of mocking laughter rang through the air, and theyguessed that this was another of the Fairy Carabosse's unpleasant jokes.The Queen was terrified at such an evil omen, and tried to pull theblack scarf from the Princess's shoulders, but it really seemed as if itmust be nailed on, it clung so closely.'Ah!' cried the Queen, 'can nothing appease this enemy of ours? Whatgood was it that I sent her more than fifty pounds of sweetmeats, and asmuch again of the best sugar, not to mention two Westphalia hams? She isas angry as ever.'While she lamented in this way, and everybody was as wet as if they hadbeen dragged through a river, the Princess still thought of nothing butthe ambassador, and just at this moment he appeared before her, withthe King, and there was a great blowing of trumpets, and all the peopleshouted louder than ever. Fanfaronade was not generally at a loss forsomething to say, but when he saw the Princess, she was so much morebeautiful and majestic than he had expected that he could only stammerout a few words, and entirely forgot the harangue which he had beenlearning for months, and knew well enough to have repeated it in hissleep. To gain time to remember at least part of it, he made severallow bows to the Princess, who on her side dropped half a dozen curtseyswithout stopping to think, and then said, to relieve his evidentembarrassment:'Sir Ambassador, I am sure that everything you intend to say ischarming, since it is you who mean to say it. but let us make hasteinto the palace, as it is pouring cats and dogs, and the wicked FairyCarabosse will be amused to see us all stand dripping here. When we areonce under shelter we can laugh at her.'Upon this the Ambassador found his tongue, and replied gallantly thatthe Fairy had evidently foreseen the flames that would be kindled bythe bright eyes of the Princess, and had sent this deluge to extinguishthem. Then he offered his hand to conduct the Princess, and she saidsoftly:'As you could not possibly guess how much I like you, Sir Fanfaronade,I am obliged to tell you plainly that, since I saw you enter the town onyour beautiful prancing horse, I have been sorry that you came to speakfor another instead of for yourself. So, if you think about it as I do,I will marry you instead of your master. Of course I know you are not aprince, but I shall be just as fond of you as if you were, and we can goand live in some cosy little corner of the world, and be as happy as thedays are long.'The Ambassador thought he must be dreaming, and could hardly believewhat the lovely Princess said. He dared not answer, but only squeezedthe Princess's hand until he really hurt her little finger, but she didnot cry out. When they reached the palace the King kissed his daughteron both cheeks, and said:'My little lambkin, are you willing to marry the great King Merlin'sson, for this Ambassador has come on his behalf to fetch you?''If you please, sire,' said the Princess, dropping a curtsey.'I consent also,' said the Queen. 'so let the banquet be prepared.'This was done with all speed, and everybody feasted except Mayblossomand Fanfaronade, who looked at one another and forgot everything else.After the banquet came a ball, and after that again a ballet, and atlast they were all so tired that everyone fell asleep just where he sat.Only the lovers were as wide awake as mice, and the Princess, seeingthat there was nothing to fear, said to Fanfaronade:'Let us be quick and run away, for we shall never have a better chancethan this.'Then she took the King's dagger, which was in a diamond sheath, and theQueen's neck handkerchief, and gave her hand to Fanfaronade, who carrieda lantern, and they ran out together into the muddy street and down tothe sea shore. Here they got into a little boat in which the poor oldboatman was sleeping, and when he woke up and saw the lovely Princess,with all her diamonds and her spiders' web scarf, he did not know whatto think, and obeyed her instantly when she commanded him to setout. They could see neither moon nor stars, but in the Queen'sneck handkerchief there was a carbuncle which glowed like fifty torches.Fanfaronade asked the Princess where she would like to go, but she onlyanswered that she did not care where she went as long as he was withher.'But, Princess,' said he, 'I dare not take you back to King Merlin'scourt. He would think hanging too good for me.''Oh, in that case,' she answered, 'we had better go to Squirrel Island.it is lonely enough, and too far off for anyone to follow us there.'So she ordered the old boatman to steer for Squirrel Island.Meanwhile the day was breaking, and the King and Queen and all thecourtiers began to wake up and rub their eyes, and think it was timeto finish the preparations for the wedding. And the Queen asked for herneck handkerchief, that she might look smart. Then there was a scurryinghither and thither, and a hunting everywhere: they looked into everyplace, from the wardrobes to the stoves, and the Queen herself ran aboutfrom the garret to the cellar, but the handkerchief was nowhere to befound.By this time the King had missed his dagger, and the search began allover again. They opened boxes and chests of which the keys had been lostfor a hundred years, and found numbers of curious things, but not thedagger, and the King tore his beard, and the Queen tore her hair, forthe handkerchief and the dagger were the most valuable things in thekingdom.When the King saw that the search was hopeless he said:'Never mind, let us make haste and get the wedding over before anythingelse is lost.' And then he asked where the Princess was. Upon this hernurse came forward and said:'Sire, I have been seeking her these two hours, but she is nowhere tobe found.' This was more than the Queen could bear. She gave a shriekof alarm and fainted away, and they had to pour two barrels ofeau de cologne over her before she recovered. When she came to herselfeverybody was looking for the Princess in the greatest terror andconfusion, but as she did not appear, the King said to his page:'Go and find the Ambassador Fanfaronade, who is doubtless asleep in somecorner, and tell him the sad news.'So the page hunted hither and thither, but Fanfaronade was no more to befound than the Princess, the dagger, or the neck handkerchief!Then the King summoned his counsellors and his guards, and, accompaniedby the Queen, went into his great hall. As he had not had time toprepare his speech beforehand, the King ordered that silence should bekept for three hours, and at the end of that time he spoke as follows:'Listen, great and small! My dear daughter Mayblossom is lost: whethershe has been stolen away or has simply disappeared I cannot tell. TheQueen's neck handkerchief and my sword, which are worth their weight ingold, are also missing, and, what is worst of all, the AmbassadorFanfaronade is nowhere to be found. I greatly fear that the King, hismaster, when he receives no tidings from him, will come to seek himamong us, and will accuse us of having made mince meat of him. Perhaps Icould bear even that if I had any money, but I assure you that theexpenses of the wedding have completely ruined me. Advise me, then, mydear subjects, what had I better do to recover my daughter, Fanfaronade,and the other things.'This was the most eloquent speech the King had been known to make, andwhen everybody had done admiring it the Prime Minister made answer:'Sire, we are all very sorry to see you so sorry. We would giveeverything we value in the world to take away the cause of your sorrow,but this seems to be another of the tricks of the Fairy Carabosse. ThePrincess's twenty unlucky years were not quite over, and really, if thetruth must be told, I noticed that Fanfaronade and the Princess appearedto admire one another greatly. Perhaps this may give some clue to themystery of their disappearance.'Here the Queen interrupted him, saying, 'Take care what you say, sir.Believe me, the Princess Mayblossom was far too well brought up to thinkof falling in love with an Ambassador.'At this the nurse came forward, and, falling on her knees, confessed howthey had made the little needle hole in the tower, and how the Princesshad declared when she saw the Ambassador that she would marry him andnobody else. Then the Queen was very angry, and gave the nurse, and thecradle rocker, and the nursery maid such a scolding that they shook intheir shoes. But the Admiral Cocked Hat interrupted her, crying:'Let us be off after this good for nothing Fanfaronade, for with out adoubt he has run away with our Princess.'Then there was a great clapping of hands, and everybody shouted, 'By allmeans let us be after him.'So while some embarked upon the sea, the others ran from kingdomto kingdom beating drums and blowing trumpets, and wherever a crowdcollected they cried:'Whoever wants a beautiful doll, sweetmeats of all kinds, a littlepair of scissors, a golden robe, and a satin cap has only to say whereFanfaronade has hidden the Princess Mayblossom.'But the answer everywhere was, 'You must go farther, we have not seenthem.'However, those who went by sea were more fortunate, for after sailingabout for some time they noticed a light before them which burned atnight like a great fire. At first they dared not go near it, not knowingwhat it might be, but by and by it remained stationary over SquirrelIsland, for, as you have guessed already, the light was the glowing ofthe carbuncle. The Princess and Fanfaronade on landing upon the islandhad given the boatman a hundred gold pieces, and made him promisesolemnly to tell no one where he had taken them. but the first thingthat happened was that, as he rowed away, he got into the midst of thefleet, and before he could escape the Admiral had seen him and sent aboat after him.When he was searched they found the gold pieces in his pocket, and asthey were quite new coins, struck in honour of the Princess's wedding,the Admiral felt certain that the boatman must have been paid bythe Princess to aid her in her flight. But he would not answer anyquestions, and pretended to be deaf and dumb.Then the Admiral said: 'Oh! deaf and dumb is he? Lash him to the mastand give him a taste of the cat o' nine tails. I don't know anythingbetter than that for curing the deaf and dumb!'And when the old boatman saw that he was in earnest, he told all he knewabout the cavalier and the lady whom he had landed upon Squirrel Island,and the Admiral knew it must be the Princess and Fanfaronade. so he gavethe order for the fleet to surround the island.Meanwhile the Princess Mayblossom, who was by this time terribly sleepy,had found a grassy bank in the shade, and throwing herself down hadalready fallen into a profound slumber, when Fanfaronade, who happenedto be hungry and not sleepy, came and woke her up, saying, very crossly:'Pray, madam, how long do you mean to stay here? I see nothing to eat,and though you may be very charming, the sight of you does not preventme from famishing.''What! Fanfaronade,' said the Princess, sitting up and rubbing her eyes,'is it possible that when I am here with you you can want anything else?You ought to be thinking all the time how happy you are.''Happy!' cried he. 'say rather unhappy. I wish with all my heart thatyou were back in your dark tower again.''Darling, don't be cross,' said the Princess. 'I will go and see if Ican find some wild fruit for you.''I wish you might find a wolf to eat you up,' growled Fanfaronade.The Princess, in great dismay, ran hither and thither all about thewood, tearing her dress, and hurting her pretty white hands with thethorns and brambles, but she could find nothing good to eat, and at lastshe had to go back sorrowfully to Fanfaronade. When he saw that she cameempty handed he got up and left her, grumbling to himself.The next day they searched again, but with no better success.'Alas!' said the Princess, 'if only I could find something for you toeat, I should not mind being hungry myself.''No, I should not mind that either,' answered Fanfaronade.'Is it possible,' said she, 'that you would not care if I died ofhunger? Oh, Fanfaronade, you said you loved me!''That was when we were in quite another place and I was not hungry,'said he. 'It makes a great difference in one's ideas to be dying ofhunger and thirst on a desert island.'At this the Princess was dreadfully vexed, and she sat down under awhite rose bush and began to cry bitterly.'Happy roses,' she thought to herself, 'they have only to blossom in thesunshine and be admired, and there is nobody to be unkind to them.' Andthe tears ran down her cheeks and splashed on to the rose tree roots.Presently she was surprised to see the whole bush rustling and shaking,and a soft little voice from the prettiest rosebud said:'Poor Princess! look in the trunk of that tree, and you will find ahoneycomb, but don't be foolish enough to share it with Fanfaronade.'Mayblossom ran to the tree, and sure enough there was the honey. Withoutlosing a moment she ran with it to Fanfaronade, crying gaily:'See, here is a honeycomb that I have found. I might have eaten it upall by myself, but I had rather share it with you.'But without looking at her or thanking her he snatched the honey combout of her hands and ate it all up every bit, without offering her amorsel. Indeed, when she humbly asked for some he said mockingly that itwas too sweet for her, and would spoil her teeth.Mayblossom, more downcast than ever, went sadly away and sat down underan oak tree, and her tears and sighs were so piteous that the oak fannedher with his rustling leaves, and said:'Take courage, pretty Princess, all is not lost yet. Take this pitcherof milk and drink it up, and whatever you do, don't leave a drop forFanfaronade.'The Princess, quite astonished, looked round, and saw a big pitcher fullof milk, but before she could raise it to her lips the thought of howthirsty Fanfaronade must be, after eating at least fifteen pounds ofhoney, made her run back to him and say:'Here is a pitcher of milk. drink some, for you must be thirsty Iam sure. but pray save a little for me, as I am dying of hunger andthirst.'But he seized the pitcher and drank all it contained at a singledraught, and then broke it to atoms on the nearest stone, saying with amalicious smile: 'As you have not eaten anything you cannot be thirsty.''Ah!' cried the Princess, 'I am well punished for disappointing theKing and Queen, and running away with this Ambassador about whom I knewnothing.'And so saying she wandered away into the thickest part of the wood, andsat down under a thorn tree, where a nightingale was singing. Presentlyshe heard him say: 'Search under the bush Princess. you will find somesugar, almonds, and some tarts there But don't be silly enough to offerFanfaronade any.' And this time the Princess, who was fainting withhunger, took the nightingale's advice, and ate what she found all byherself. But Fanfaronade, seeing that she had found something good, andwas not going to share it with him, ran after her in such a fury thatshe hastily drew out the Queen's carbuncle, which had the property ofrendering people invisible if they were in danger, and when she wassafely hidden from him she reproached him gently for his unkindness.Meanwhile Admiral Cocked Hat had despatchedJack the Chatterer of the Straw Boots, Courier in Ordinary to the PrimeMinister, to tell the King that the Princess and the Ambassador hadlanded on Squirrel Island, but that not knowing the country he had notpursued them, for fear of being captured by concealed enemies. TheirMajesties were overjoyed at the news, and the King sent for a greatbook, each leaf of which was eight ells long. It was the work of a veryclever Fairy, and contained a description of the whole earth. He verysoon found that Squirrel Island was uninhabited.'Go,' said he, to Jack the Chatterer, 'tell the Admiral from me to landat once. I am surprised at his not having done so sooner.' As soon asthis message reached the fleet, every preparation was made for war, andthe noise was so great that it reached the ears of the Princess, who atonce flew to protect her lover. As he was not very brave he accepted heraid gladly.'You stand behind me,' said she, 'and I will hold the carbuncle whichwill make us invisible, and with the King's dagger I can protect youfrom the enemy.' So when the soldiers landed they could see nothing, butthe Princess touched them one after another with the dagger, and theyfell insensible upon the sand, so that at last the Admiral, seeing thatthere was some enchantment, hastily gave orders for a retreat to besounded, and got his men back into their boats in great confusion.Fanfaronade, being once more left with the Princess, began to think thatif he could get rid of her, and possess himself of the carbuncle and thedagger, he would be able to make his escape. So as they walked back overthe cliffs he gave the Princess a great push, hoping she would fallinto the sea. but she stepped aside so quickly that he only succeeded inoverbalancing himself, and over he went, and sank to the bottom of thesea like a lump of lead, and was never heard of any more. While thePrincess was still looking after him in horror, her attention wasattracted by a rushing noise over her head, and looking up she saw twochariots approaching rapidly from opposite directions. One was brightand glittering, and drawn by swans and peacocks, while the Fairy who satin it was beautiful as a sunbeam. but the other was drawn by bats andravens, and contained a frightful little Dwarf, who was dressed ina snake's skin, and wore a great toad upon her head for a hood. Thechariots met with a frightful crash in mid air, and the Princess lookedon in breathless anxiety while a furious battle took place between thelovely Fairy with her golden lance, and the hideous little Dwarf and herrusty pike. But very soon it was evident that the Beauty had the bestof it, and the Dwarf turned her bats' heads and flickered away in greatconfusion, while the Fairy came down to where the Princess stood,and said, smiling, 'You see Princess, I have completely routed thatmalicious old Carabosse. Will you believe it! she actually wanted toclaim authority over you for ever, because you came out of the towerfour days before the twenty years were ended. However, I think I havesettled her pretensions, and I hope you will be very happy and enjoy thefreedom I have won for you.'The Princess thanked her heartily, and then the Fairy despatched one ofher peacocks to her palace to bring a gorgeous robe for Mayblossom, whocertainly needed it, for her own was torn to shreds by the thorns andbriars. Another peacock was sent to the Admiral to tell him that hecould now land in perfect safety, which he at once did, bringing allhis men with him, even to Jack the Chatterer, who, happening to pass thespit upon which the Admiral's dinner was roasting, snatched it up andbrought it with him.Admiral Cocked Hat was immensely surprised when he came upon the goldenchariot, and still more so to see two lovely ladies walking underthe trees a little farther away. When he reached them, of course herecognised the Princess, and he went down on his knees and kissed herhand quite joyfully. Then she presented him to the Fairy, and told himhow Carabosse had been finally routed, and he thanked and congratulatedthe Fairy, who was most gracious to him. While they were talking shecried suddenly:'I declare I smell a savoury dinner.''Why yes, Madam, here it is,' said Jack the Chatterer, holding up thespit, where all the pheasants and partridges were frizzling. 'Will yourHighness please to taste any of them?''By all means,' said the Fairy, 'especially as the Princess willcertainly be glad of a good meal.'So the Admiral sent back to his ship for everything that was needful,and they feasted merrily under the trees. By the time they had finishedthe peacock had come back with a robe for the Princess, in which theFairy arrayed her. It was of green and gold brocade, embroidered withpearls and rubies, and her long golden hair was tied back with stringsof diamonds and emeralds, and crowned with flowers. The Fairy madeher mount beside her in the golden chariot, and took her on board theAdmiral's ship, where she bade her farewell, sending many messages offriendship to the Queen, and bidding the Princess tell her that shewas the fifth Fairy who had attended the christening. Then salutes werefired, the fleet weighed anchor, and very soon they reached the port.Here the King and Queen were waiting, and they received the Princesswith such joy and kindness that she could not get a word in edgewise, tosay how sorry she was for having run away with such a very poor spiritedAmbassador. But, after all, it must have been all Carabosse's fault.Just at this lucky moment who should arrive but King Merlin's son, whohad become uneasy at not receiving any news from his Ambassador, and sohad started himself with a magnificent escort of a thousand horsemen,and thirty body guards in gold and scarlet uniforms, to see what couldhave happened. As he was a hundred times handsomer and braver than theAmbassador, the Princess found she could like him very much. So thewedding was held at once, with so much splendour and rejoicing that allthe previous misfortunes were quite forgotten.(1)(1) La Princesse Printaniere. Par Mme. d'Aulnoy.