There was once a handsome young fellow by the name of Tom. From an old,wealthy uncle he had inherited a fine farm, and being well established inlife, he determined to seek a wife. As he was quite wealthy, he consideredhimself able to afford a little more than ordinary people in thisdirection, for the wives of wealthy men must always be prettier and wiserthan those of the poor, as we all know.So Tom wanted a wife who was handsome and industrious, wise and good, andof course it would not be out of the way if she possessed some property.One day he rode over to a rich farmer who lived in the neighborhood andwho had three daughters, all of whom were ready to be married at once. Hehad seen, although he had never talked with, them, and thought well of allthree.Now these girls, who were otherwise pretty and good, had one great fault:namely, that they could not talk distinctly. When Tom came riding into theyard the farmer received him kindly and conducted him into the room wherethe three girls sat spinning diligently.They nodded kindly to him and smiled, but did not utter a sound, as theirmother had strictly forbidden them to do so. The farmer led the talking,while his wife waited on them with good food and drinks. The girls spun,and looked at the young man at the table, and glanced at each other and atthe ceiling and out of the windows, but none of them spoke.At length the one happened to break her yarn. "My 'arn bote!" exclaimedshe."Tie it adain," advised her sister."Mamma told us we say no'tin', and now we t'ant teep 'till!" broke in thethird one.When Tom heard these grown girls talk like babies he hurried away, utterlyshocked. A wife who could not speak distinctly he had no use for at all.He proceeded to another farm, where they had a daughter who was said to bea very fine girl in all respects. Tom went into the house and saw her. Ifthe first three ones had been too silent, this one talked, however, morefluently and volubly than any girl whom he had ever met. She talked like ahouse on fire, while her spinning wheel went more rapidly than any engine."How long does it take you to use up such a head of flax?" asked the youngman, pointing to the rock (distaff)."Oh," she said, "I use up a couple of them every day."While she left the room a few minutes to look after the servants, Tomseized a key from a drawer of a bureau in the room and stuffed it into thehead of flax. When she returned they finished their conversation.whereupon he bid her parents and herself good bye, promising to call againin a week.On the appointed day Tom returned. The girl and her parents expected himto talk this time of his errand. When he came into the room the girl wasbusy with her rock, as before. She bid him welcome, and invited him to sitdown."How unfortunate!" began she. "We have been missing the key of that bureauever since you were here. We are unable to find it, and I cannot reach anyof my things. It never happened before."On hearing this, Tom went over and pulled the key out of the head of flax.It was the same key, and, still worse, the very same head of flax that hehad seen a week before. Thus he knew her word could not be depended upon.and bidding her good bye he left at once, richer in experience thanbefore.Some time afterwards he heard of a girl who was very pretty and good, butespecially wise and thoughtful in all practical matters. Her parents weresaid to be the same. Tom saddled his horse and rode over to see her.The whole family was at home and received the young man very kindly. Whilethe men drifted into a talk about the weather and crops, the women placedbefore them the best that the house could afford."Go into the cellar and fetch a bottle of wine," said the woman to herdaughter.The girl went into the cellar, but was so busy thinking what pattern shemight choose for a wedding dress that she sat down on the floor, lost inreflection upon this important subject, and the wine was entirelyforgotten. After she had left the room, the parents told Tom of theirdaughter's many good qualities. how industrious she was, how thoughtful,and so on. The young man thought that she would be exactly such a wife ashe wished. But as the girl did not appear with the wine, her mother wentto see what had become of her.When she came into the cellar and found her daughter sitting on the floor,she asked, "Why do you sit there, instead of bringing the wine?""Well," was the answer, "I am thinking that if I marry Tom I must make acareful choice of the pattern for my wedding gown. The question is, whatpattern would do best?""Yes, indeed," answered her mother, "which pattern will be the mostsuitable?" She sat down by her daughter, pondering over this importantquestion."I wonder what has become of them both!" at length exclaimed the man,referring to his wife and daughter. "I must look after them."He went into the cellar, and when he saw both women sitting on the floorhe cried, "Why are you both sitting here? You have kept us waiting forover an hour!""We are thinking," replied his wife, "of the pattern for the wedding gown.If she is to marry Tom, the gown must, of course, be a pretty one, and thechoice of the right pattern is, indeed, an important matter.""To be sure!" answered her husband, seating himself on the floor besidethem to consider the same subject.As at length Tom grew tired of waiting, he went himself into the cellar tosee if anything unusual had happened. He found the whole family sitting onthe floor and looking extremely thoughtful."Why do you all sit here?" he asked. At length the farmer, aroused fromhis reverie, proceeded to relate the difficult question which had caughttheir attention."Yes, in dee e ed," answered Tom. "Which will be the most suitablepattern? You may think of that until I return, and in the meantime I willdo the same. Good bye to you!"Mounting his horse, he rode home as rapidly as the steed would carry him,and if he has not found another and less thoughtful girl, he is yet abachelor.But the three people may yet be sitting on the cellar floor, thinking ofthe pattern for the bridal gown, for all that I know!