In very hot climates, where the heat of the sun has great power,people are usually as brown as mahogany. and in the hottestcountries they are negroes, with black skins. A learned man oncetravelled into one of these warm climates, from the cold regions ofthe north, and thought he would roam about as he did at home. but hesoon had to change his opinion. He found that, like all sensiblepeople, he must remain in the house during the whole day, with everywindow and door closed, so that it looked as if all in the housewere asleep or absent. The houses of the narrow street in which helived were so lofty that the sun shone upon them from morning tillevening, and it became quite unbearable. This learned man from thecold regions was young as well as clever. but it seemed to him as ifhe were sitting in an oven, and he became quite exhausted and weak,and grew so thin that his shadow shrivelled up, and became muchsmaller than it had been at home. The sun took away even what was leftof it, and he saw nothing of it till the evening, after sunset. It wasreally a pleasure, as soon as the lights were brought into the room,to see the shadow stretch itself against the wall, even to theceiling, so tall was it. and it really wanted a good stretch torecover its strength. The learned man would sometimes go out intothe balcony to stretch himself also. and as soon as the stars cameforth in the clear, beautiful sky, he felt revived. People at thishour began to make their appearance in all the balconies in thestreet. for in warm climates every window has a balcony, in which theycan breathe the fresh evening air, which is very necessary, even tothose who are used to a heat that makes them as brown as mahogany.so that the street presented a very lively appearance. Here wereshoemakers, and tailors, and all sorts of people sitting. In thestreet beneath, they brought out tables and chairs, lighted candles byhundreds, talked and sang, and were very merry. There were peoplewalking, carriages driving, and mules trotting along, with their bellson the harness, "tingle, tingle," as they went. Then the dead werecarried to the grave with the sound of solemn music, and the tollingof the church bells. It was indeed a scene of varied life in thestreet. One house only, which was just opposite to the one in whichthe foreign learned man lived, formed a contrast to all this, for itwas quite still. and yet somebody dwelt there, for flowers stood inthe balcony, blooming beautifully in the hot sun. and this could nothave been unless they had been watered carefully. Therefore some onemust be in the house to do this. The doors leading to the balcony werehalf opened in the evening. and although in the front room all wasdark, music could be heard from the interior of the house. The foreignlearned man considered this music very delightful. but perhaps hefancied it. for everything in these warm countries pleased him,excepting the heat of the sun. The foreign landlord said he did notknow who had taken the opposite house nobody was to be seen there.and as to the music, he thought it seemed very tedious, to him mostuncommonly so."It is just as if some one was practising a piece that he couldnot manage. it is always the same piece. He thinks, I suppose, that hewill be able to manage it at last. but I do not think so, however longhe may play it."Once the foreigner woke in the night. He slept with the dooropen which led to the balcony. the wind had raised the curtainbefore it, and there appeared a wonderful brightness over all in thebalcony of the opposite house. The flowers seemed like flames of themost gorgeous colors, and among the flowers stood a beautifulslender maiden. It was to him as if light streamed from her, anddazzled his eyes. but then he had only just opened them, as he awokefrom his sleep. With one spring he was out of bed, and crept softlybehind the curtain. But she was gone the brightness haddisappeared. the flowers no longer appeared like flames, althoughstill as beautiful as ever. The door stood ajar, and from an innerroom sounded music so sweet and so lovely, that it produced the mostenchanting thoughts, and acted on the senses with magic power. Whocould live there? Where was the real entrance? for, both in the streetand in the lane at the side, the whole ground floor was a continuationof shops. and people could not always be passing through them.One evening the foreigner sat in the balcony. A light wasburning in his own room, just behind him. It was quite natural,therefore, that his shadow should fall on the wall of the oppositehouse. so that, as he sat amongst the flowers on his balcony, whenhe moved, his shadow moved also."I think my shadow is the only living thing to be seenopposite," said the learned man. "see how pleasantly it sits among theflowers. The door is only ajar. the shadow ought to be clever enoughto step in and look about him, and then to come back and tell mewhat he has seen. You could make yourself useful in this way," saidhe, jokingly. "be so good as to step in now, will you?" and then henodded to the shadow, and the shadow nodded in return. "Now go, butdon't stay away altogether."Then the foreigner stood up, and the shadow on the oppositebalcony stood up also. the foreigner turned round, the shadowturned. and if any one had observed, they might have seen it gostraight into the half opened door of the opposite balcony, as thelearned man re entered his own room, and let the curtain fall. Thenext morning he went out to take his coffee and read the newspapers."How is this?" he exclaimed, as he stood in the sunshine. "Ihave lost my shadow. So it really did go away yesterday evening, andit has not returned. This is very annoying."And it certainly did vex him, not so much because the shadow wasgone, but because he knew there was a story of a man without a shadow.All the people at home, in his country, knew this story. and when hereturned, and related his own adventures, they would say it was onlyan imitation. and he had no desire for such things to be said ofhim. So he decided not to speak of it at all, which was a verysensible determination.In the evening he went out again on his balcony, taking care toplace the light behind him. for he knew that a shadow always wants hismaster for a screen. but he could not entice him out. He madehimself little, and he made himself tall. but there was no shadow, andno shadow came. He said, "Hem, a hem." but it was all useless. Thatwas very vexatious. but in warm countries everything grows veryquickly. and, after a week had passed, he saw, to his great joy,that a new shadow was growing from his feet, when he walked in thesunshine. so that the root must have remained. After three weeks, hehad quite a respectable shadow, which, during his return journey tonorthern lands, continued to grow, and became at last so large that hemight very well have spared half of it. When this learned manarrived at home, he wrote books about the true, the good, and thebeautiful, which are to be found in this world. and so days andyears passed many, many years.One evening, as he sat in his study, a very gentle tap was heardat the door. "Come in," said he. but no one came. He opened thedoor, and there stood before him a man so remarkably thin that he feltseriously troubled at his appearance. He was, however, very welldressed, and looked like a gentleman. "To whom have I the honor ofspeaking?" said he."Ah, I hoped you would recognize me," said the elegant stranger."I have gained so much that I have a body of flesh, and clothes towear. You never expected to see me in such a condition. Do you notrecognize your old shadow? Ah, you never expected that I should returnto you again. All has been prosperous with me since I was with youlast. I have become rich in every way, and, were I inclined topurchase my freedom from service, I could easily do so." And as hespoke he rattled between his fingers a number of costly trinkets whichhung to a thick gold watch chain he wore round his neck. Diamond ringssparkled on his fingers, and it was all real."I cannot recover from my astonishment," said the learned man."What does all this mean?""Something rather unusual," said the shadow. "but you are yourselfan uncommon man, and you know very well that I have followed in yourfootsteps ever since your childhood. As soon as you found that Ihave travelled enough to be trusted alone, I went my own way, and I amnow in the most brilliant circumstances. But I felt a kind oflonging to see you once more before you die, and I wanted to seethis place again, for there is always a clinging to the land ofone's birth. I know that you have now another shadow. do I owe youanything? If so, have the goodness to say what it is.""No! Is it really you?" said the learned man. "Well, this ismost remarkable. I never supposed it possible that a man's oldshadow could become a human being.""Just tell me what I owe you," said the shadow, "for I do not liketo be in debt to any man.""How can you talk in that manner?" said the learned man. "Whatquestion of debt can there be between us? You are as free as anyone. I rejoice exceedingly to hear of your good fortune. Sit down, oldfriend, and tell me a little of how it happened, and what you saw inthe house opposite to me while we were in those hot climates.""Yes, I will tell you all about it," said the shadow, sittingdown. "but then you must promise me never to tell in this city,wherever you may meet me, that I have been your shadow. I amthinking of being married, for I have more than sufficient tosupport a family.""Make yourself quite easy," said the learned man. "I will tellno one who you really are. Here is my hand, I promise, and a wordis sufficient between man and man.""Between man and a shadow," said the shadow. for he could not helpsaying so.It was really most remarkable how very much he had become a man inappearance. He was dressed in a suit of the very finest black cloth,polished boots, and an opera crush hat, which could be folded togetherso that nothing could be seen but the crown and the rim, besides thetrinkets, the gold chain, and the diamond rings already spoken of. Theshadow was, in fact, very well dressed, and this made a man of him."Now I will relate to you what you wish to know," said the shadow,placing his foot with the polished leather boot as firmly aspossible on the arm of the new shadow of the learned man, which lay athis feet like a poodle dog. This was done, it might be from pride,or perhaps that the new shadow might cling to him, but the prostrateshadow remained quite quiet and at rest, in order that it mightlisten, for it wanted to know how a shadow could be sent away by itsmaster, and become a man itself. "Do you know," said the shadow, "thatin the house opposite to you lived the most glorious creature in theworld? It was poetry. I remained there three weeks, and it was morelike three thousand years, for I read all that has ever been writtenin poetry or prose. and I may say, in truth, that I saw and learnteverything.""Poetry!" exclaimed the learned man. "Yes, she lives as a hermitin great cities. Poetry! Well, I saw her once for a very short moment,while sleep weighed down my eyelids. She flashed upon me from thebalcony like the radiant aurora borealis, surrounded with flowers likeflames of fire. Tell me, you were on the balcony that evening. youwent through the door, and what did you see?""I found myself in an ante room," said the shadow. "You stillsat opposite to me, looking into the room. There was no light, or atleast it seemed in partial darkness, for the door of a whole suiteof rooms stood open, and they were brilliantly lighted. The blaze oflight would have killed me, had I approached too near the maidenmyself, but I was cautious, and took time, which is what every oneought to do.""And what didst thou see?" asked the learned man."I saw everything, as you shall hear. But it really is notpride on my part, as a free man and possessing the knowledge that Ido, besides my position, not to speak of my wealth I wish you wouldsay you to me instead of thou.""I beg your pardon," said the learned man. "it is an old habit,which it is difficult to break. You are quite right. I will try tothink of it. But now tell me everything that you saw.""Everything," said the shadow. "for I saw and know everything.""What was the appearance of the inner rooms?" asked the scholar."Was it there like a cool grove, or like a holy temple? Were thechambers like a starry sky seen from the top of a high mountain?""It was all that you describe," said the shadow. "but I did not goquite in I remained in the twilight of the ante room but I was ina very good position, I could see and hear all that was going on inthe court of poetry.""But what did you see? Did the gods of ancient times passthrough the rooms? Did old heroes fight their battles over again? Werethere lovely children at play, who related their dreams?""I tell you I have been there, and therefore you may be surethat I saw everything that was to be seen. If you had gone there,you would not have remained a human being, whereas I became one. andat the same moment I became aware of my inner being, my inbornaffinity to the nature of poetry. It is true I did not think muchabout it while I was with you, but you will remember that I was alwaysmuch larger at sunrise and sunset, and in the moonlight even morevisible than yourself, but I did not then understand my innerexistence. In the ante room it was revealed to me. I became a man. Icame out in full maturity. But you had left the warm countries. As aman, I felt ashamed to go about without boots or clothes, and thatexterior finish by which man is known. So I went my own way. I cantell you, for you will not put it in a book. I hid myself under thecloak of a cake woman, but she little thought who she concealed. Itwas not till evening that I ventured out. I ran about the streets inthe moonlight. I drew myself up to my full height upon the walls,which tickled my back very pleasantly. I ran here and there, lookedthrough the highest windows into the rooms, and over the roofs. Ilooked in, and saw what nobody else could see, or indeed ought to see.in fact, it is a bad world, and I would not care to be a man, but thatmen are of some importance. I saw the most miserable things going onbetween husbands and wives, parents and children, sweet, incomparablechildren. I have seen what no human being has the power of knowing,although they would all be very glad to know the evil conduct oftheir neighbors. Had I written a newspaper, how eagerly it wouldhave been read! Instead of which, I wrote directly to the personsthemselves, and great alarm arose in all the town I visited. Theyhad so much fear of me, and yet how dearly they loved me. Theprofessor made me a professor. The tailor gave me new clothes. I amwell provided for in that way. The overseer of the mint struck coinsfor me. The women declared that I was handsome, and so I became theman you now see me. And now I must say adieu. Here is my card. Ilive on the sunny side of the street, and always stay at home in rainyweather." And the shadow departed."This is all very remarkable," said the learned man.Years passed, days and years went by, and the shadow came again."How are you going on now?" he asked."Ah!" said the learned man. "I am writing about the true, thebeautiful, and the good. but no one cares to hear anything about it. Iam quite in despair, for I take it to heart very much.""That is what I never do," said the shadow. "I am growing quitefat and stout, which every one ought to be. You do not understandthe world. you will make yourself ill about it. you ought to travel. Iam going on a journey in the summer, will you go with me? I shouldlike a travelling companion. will you travel with me as my shadow?It would give me great pleasure, and I will pay all expenses.""Are you going to travel far?" asked the learned man."That is a matter of opinion," replied the shadow. "At all events,a journey will do you good, and if you will be my shadow, then allyour journey shall be paid.""It appears to me very absurd," said the learned man."But it is the way of the world," replied the shadow, "andalways will be." Then he went away.Everything went wrong with the learned man. Sorrow and troublepursued him, and what he said about the good, the beautiful, and thetrue, was of as much value to most people as a nutmeg would be to acow. At length he fell ill. "You really look like a shadow," peoplesaid to him, and then a cold shudder would pass over him, for he hadhis own thoughts on the subject."You really ought to go to some watering place," said the shadowon his next visit. "There is no other chance for you. I will takeyou with me, for the sake of old acquaintance. I will pay the expensesof your journey, and you shall write a description of it to amuse usby the way. I should like to go to a watering place. my beard does notgrow as it ought, which is from weakness, and I must have a beard. Nowdo be sensible and accept my proposal. we shall travel as intimatefriends."And at last they started together. The shadow was master now,and the master became the shadow. They drove together, and rode andwalked in company with each other, side by side, or one in front andthe other behind, according to the position of the sun. The shadowalways knew when to take the place of honor, but the learned mantook no notice of it, for he had a good heart, and was exceedinglymild and friendly.One day the master said to the shadow, "We have grown uptogether from our childhood, and now that we have become travellingcompanions, shall we not drink to our good fellowship, and say theeand thou to each other?""What you say is very straightforward and kindly meant," saidthe shadow, who was now really master. "I will be equally kind andstraightforward. You are a learned man, and know how wonderful humannature is. There are some men who cannot endure the smell of brownpaper. it makes them ill. Others will feel a shuddering sensation totheir very marrow, if a nail is scratched on a pane of glass. I myselfhave a similar kind of feeling when I hear any one say thou to me. Ifeel crushed by it, as I used to feel in my former position withyou. You will perceive that this is a matter of feeling, not pride.I cannot allow you to say thou to me. I will gladly say it to you, andtherefore your wish will be half fulfilled." Then the shadow addressedhis former master as thou."It is going rather too far," said the latter, "that I am to sayyou when I speak to him, and he is to say thou to me." However, he wasobliged to submit.They arrived at length at the baths, where there were manystrangers, and among them a beautiful princess, whose real diseaseconsisted in being too sharp sighted, which made every one veryuneasy. She saw at once that the new comer was very different to everyone else. "They say he is here to make his beard grow," she thought."but I know the real cause, he is unable to cast a shadow." Then shebecame very curious on the matter, and one day, while on thepromenade, she entered into conversation with the strange gentleman.Being a princess, she was not obliged to stand upon much ceremony,so she said to him without hesitation, "Your illness consists in notbeing able to cast a shadow.""Your royal highness must be on the high road to recovery fromyour illness," said he. "I know your complaint arose from being toosharp sighted, and in this case it has entirely failed. I happen tohave a most unusual shadow. Have you not seen a person who is alwaysat my side? Persons often give their servants finer cloth for theirliveries than for their own clothes, and so I have dressed out myshadow like a man. nay, you may observe that I have even given him ashadow of his own. it is rather expensive, but I like to have thingsabout me that are peculiar.""How is this?" thought the princess. "am I really cured? This mustbe the best watering place in existence. Water in our times hascertainly wonderful power. But I will not leave this place yet, justas it begins to be amusing. This foreign prince for he must be aprince pleases me above all things. I only hope his beard won't grow,or he will leave at once."In the evening, the princess and the shadow danced together in thelarge assembly rooms. She was light, but he was lighter still. she hadnever seen such a dancer before. She told him from what country shehad come, and found he knew it and had been there, but not while shewas at home. He had looked into the windows of her father's palace,both the upper and the lower windows. he had seen many things, andcould therefore answer the princess, and make allusions which quiteastonished her. She thought he must be the cleverest man in all theworld, and felt the greatest respect for his knowledge. When shedanced with him again she fell in love with him, which the shadowquickly discovered, for she had with her eyes looked him through andthrough. They danced once more, and she was nearly telling him, butshe had some discretion. she thought of her country, her kingdom,and the number of people over whom she would one day have to rule. "Heis a clever man," she thought to herself, "which is a good thing,and he dances admirably, which is also good. But has hewell grounded knowledge? that is an important question, and I must tryhim." Then she asked him a most difficult question, she herselfcould not have answered it, and the shadow made a most unaccountablegrimace."You cannot answer that," said the princess."I learnt something about it in my childhood," he replied. "andbelieve that even my very shadow, standing over there by the door,could answer it.""Your shadow," said the princess. "indeed that would be veryremarkable.""I do not say so positively," observed the shadow. "but I aminclined to believe that he can do so. He has followed me for somany years, and has heard so much from me, that I think it is verylikely. But your royal highness must allow me to observe, that he isvery proud of being considered a man, and to put him in a goodhumor, so that he may answer correctly, he must be treated as a man.""I shall be very pleased to do so," said the princess. So shewalked up to the learned man, who stood in the doorway, and spoke tohim of the sun, and the moon, of the green forests, and of people nearhome and far off. and the learned man conversed with her pleasantlyand sensibly."What a wonderful man he must be, to have such a clever shadow!"thought she. "If I were to choose him it would be a real blessing tomy country and my subjects, and I will do it." So the princess and theshadow were soon engaged to each other, but no one was to be told aword about it, till she returned to her kingdom."No one shall know," said the shadow. "not even my own shadow."and he had very particular reasons for saying so.After a time, the princess returned to the land over which shereigned, and the shadow accompanied her."Listen my friend," said the shadow to the learned man. "nowthat I am as fortunate and as powerful as any man can be, I will dosomething unusually good for you. You shall live in my palace, drivewith me in the royal carriage, and have a hundred thousand dollars ayear. but you must allow every one to call you a shadow, and neverventure to say that you have been a man. And once a year, when I sitin my balcony in the sunshine, you must lie at my feet as becomes ashadow to do. for I must tell you I am going to marry the princess,and our wedding will take place this evening.""Now, really, this is too ridiculous," said the learned man. "Icannot, and will not, submit to such folly. It would be cheating thewhole country, and the princess also. I will disclose everything,and say that I am the man, and that you are only a shadow dressed upin men's clothes.""No one would believe you," said the shadow. "be reasonable,now, or I will call the guards.""I will go straight to the princess," said the learned man."But I shall be there first," replied the shadow, "and you will besent to prison." And so it turned out, for the guards readily obeyedhim, as they knew he was going to marry the king's daughter."You tremble," said the princess, when the shadow appearedbefore her. "Has anything happened? You must not be ill to day, forthis evening our wedding will take place.""I have gone through the most terrible affair that couldpossibly happen," said the shadow. "only imagine, my shadow has gonemad. I suppose such a poor, shallow brain, could not bear much. hefancies that he has become a real man, and that I am his shadow.""How very terrible," cried the princess. "is he locked up?""Oh yes, certainly. for I fear he will never recover.""Poor shadow!" said the princess. "it is very unfortunate for him.it would really be a good deed to free him from his frail existence.and, indeed, when I think how often people take the part of thelower class against the higher, in these days, it would be policy toput him out of the way quietly.""It is certainly rather hard upon him, for he was a faithfulservant," said the shadow. and he pretended to sigh."Yours is a noble character," said the princess, and bowed herselfbefore him.In the evening the whole town was illuminated, and cannons fired"boom," and the soldiers presented arms. It was indeed a grandwedding. The princess and the shadow stepped out on the balcony toshow themselves, and to receive one cheer more. But the learned manheard nothing of all these festivities, for he had already beenexecuted.