Then quoth the Tailor to the King of China: When we heard theBarber's tale and saw the excess of his loquacity and the way inwhich he had wronged this young man, we laid hands on him andshut him up, after which we sat down in peace, and ate and drankand enjoyed the good things of the marriage feast till the timeof the call to mid afternoon prayer, when I left the party andreturned home. My wife received me with sour looks and said,"Thou goest a pleasuring among thy friends and thou leavest me tosit sorrowing here alone. So now, unless thou take me abroad andlet me have some amusement for the rest of the day, I will cutthe rope and it will be the cause of my separation fromthee." So I took her out and we amused ourselves till suppertime, when we returned home and fell in with this Hunchback whowas brimful of drink and trolling out these rhymes:"Clear's the wine, the cup's fine. Like to like they combine:It is wine and not cup! 'Tis a cup and not wine!"So I invited him to sup with us and went out to buy fried fish.after which we sat down to eat. and presently my wife took apiece of bread and a fid of fish and stuffed them into his mouthand he choked. and, though I slapped him long and hard betweenthe shoulders, he died. Then I carried him off and contrived tothrow him into the house of this leach, the Jew. and the leachcontrived to throw him into the house of the Reeve. and the Reevecontrived to throw him on the way of the Nazarene broker. This,then, is my adventure which befell me but yesterday. Is not itmore wondrous than the story of the Hunchback? When the King ofChina heard the Tailor's tale he shook his head for pleasure.and, showing great surprise, said, "This that passed between theyoung man and the busy body of a Barber is indeed more pleasantand wonderful than the story of my lying knave of a Hunchback."Then he bade one of his Chamberlains go with the Tailor and bringthe Barber out of jail, saying, "I wish to hear the talk of thisSilent Man and it shall be the cause of your deliverance one andall: then we will bury the Hunchback, for that he is dead sinceyesterday, and set up a tomb over him." And Shahrazad perceivedthe dawn of day and ceased to say her per misted say.When it was the Thirty fourth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the King ofChina bade, "Bring me the Barber who shall be the cause of yourdeliverance. then we will bury this Hunchback, for that he isdead since yesterday and set up a tomb over him." So theChamberlain and the Tailor went to the jail and, releasing theBarber, presently returned with him to the King. The Sultan ofChina looked at him and considered him carefully and lo andbehold! he was an ancient man, past his ninetieth year. swart offace, white of beard, and hoar of eyebrows. lop eared andproboscis nosed, with a vacant, silly and conceitedexpression of countenance. The King laughed at this figure o' funand said to him, "O Silent Man, I desire thee to tell me somewhatof thy history." Quoth the Barber, "O King of the age, allow mefirst to ask thee what is the tale of this Nazarene and this Jewand this Moslem and this Hunchback (the corpse) I see among you?And prithee what may be the object of this assemblage?" Quoth theKing of China, "And why dost thou ask?" "I ask," he replied, "inorder that the King's majesty may know that I am no forwardfellow or busy body or impertinent meddler. and that I aminnocent of their calumnious charges of overmuch talk. for I amhe whose name is the Silent Man, and indeed peculiarly happy ismy sobriquet, as saith the poet:When a nickname or little name men design, Know that naturewith name shall full oft combine."Then said the King, "Explain to the Barber the case of thisHunchback and what befell him at supper time. also repeat to himthe stories told by the Nazarene, the Jew, the Reeve, and theTailor. and of no avail to me is a twice told tale." They did hisbidding, and the Barber shook his head and said, "By Allah, thisis a marvel of marvels! Now uncover me the corpse of yonderHunchback. They undid the winding sheet and he sat down and,taking the Hunchback's head in his lap, looked at his face andlaughed and guffaw'd till he fell upon his back and said,"There is wonder in every death, but the death of thisHunchback is worthy to be written and recorded in letters ofliquid gold!" The bystanders were astounded at his words and theKing marvelled and said to him, "What ails thee, O Silent Man?Explain to us thy words !" "O King of the age," said the Barber,"I swear by thy beneficence that there is still life in thisGobbo Golightly!" Thereupon he pulled out of his waist belt abarber's budget, whence he took a pot of ointment and anointedtherewith the neck of the Hunchback and its arteries. Then hetook a pair of iron tweezers and, inserting them into theHunchback's throat, drew out the fid of fish with its bone. and,when it came to sight, behold, it was soaked in blood. Thereuponthe Hunchback sneezed a hearty sneeze and jumped up as if nothinghad happened and passing his hand over his face said, "I testifythat there is no god, but the God, and I testify that Mohammed isthe Apostle of God." At this sight all present wondered. the Kingof China laughed till he fainted and in like manner did theothers. Then said the Sultan, "By Allah, of a truth this is themost marvellous thing I ever saw! O Moslems, O soldiers all, didyou ever in the lives of you see a man die and be quickenedagain? Verily had not Allah vouchsafed to him this Barber, he hadbeen a dead man!" Quoth they, "By Allah, 'tis a marvel ofmarvels." Then the King of China bade record this tale, so theyrecorded it and placed it in the royal muniment rooms. afterwhich he bestowed costly robes of honour upon the Jew, theNazarene and the Reeve, and bade them depart in all esteem. Thenhe gave the Tailor a sumptuous dress and appointed him his owntailor, with suitable pay and allowances. and made peace betweenhim and the Hunchback, to whom also he presented a splendid andexpensive suit with a suitable stipend. He did as generously withthe Barber, giving him a gift and a dress of honour. moreover hesettled on him a handsome solde and created him Barbersurgeon of state and made him one of his cup companions.So they ceased not to live the most pleasurable life and the mostdelectable, till there came to them the Destroyer of all delightsand the Sunderer of all societies, the Depopulator of palaces andthe Garnerer for graves. Yet, O most auspicious King! (continuedShahrazad) this tale is by no means more wonderful than that ofthe two Wazirs and Anis al Jalis. Quoth her sister Dunyazad, "Andwhat may that be?", whereupon she began to relate the followingtale ofEnd of Vol. 1.Arabian Nights, Volume 1FootnotesAllaho A'alam, a deprecatory formula, used because thewriter is going to indulge in a series of what may possibly beuntruths.The "Sons of Sasan" are the famous Sassanides whosedynasty ended with the Arabian Conquest (A.D. 641). "Island"Jazirah) in Arabic also means "Peninsula," and causes muchconfusion in geographical matters.Shahryar not Shahriyar (Persian) "City friend." TheBulak edition corrupts it to Shahrbaz (City hawk), and theBreslau to Shahrban or "Defender of the City," likeMarz banWarden of the Marshes. Shah Zaman (Persian)"King of theAge:" Galland prefers Shah Zenan, or "King of women," and theBull edit. changes it to Shah Rumman, "Pomegranate King." Al Ajamdenotes all regions not Arab (Gentiles opposed to Jews,Mlechchhas to Hindus, Tajiks to Turks, etc., etc.), andespecially Persia. Ajami (a man of Ajam) being an equivalent ofthe Gr. {Greek Letters}. See Vol.. ii., p. 1.Galland writes "Vizier," a wretched frenchification of amincing Turkish mispronunciation. Torrens, "Wuzeer" (Anglo Indian and Gilchristian). Lane, "Wezeer". (Egyptian or ratherCairene). Payne, "Vizier," according to his system. Burckhardt(Proverbs), "Vizir." and Mr. Keith Falconer, "Vizir." The root ispopularly supposed to be "wizr" (burden) and the meaning"Minister." Wazir al Wuzara being "Premier." In the Koran (chaps.xx., 30) Moses says, "Give me a Wazir of my family, Harun (Aaron)my brother." Sale, followed by the excellent version of the Rev.J. M. Rodwell, translates a "Counsellor," and explains by "Onewho has the chief administration of affairs under a prince." Butboth learned Koranists learnt their Orientalism in London, and,like such students generally, fail only upon the easiest points,familiar to all old dwellers in the East.This three days term (rest day, drest day and departureday) seems to be an instinct made rule in hospitality. AmongMoslems it is a Sunnat or practice of the Prophet.)i.e., I am sick at heart.Debauched women prefer negroes on account of the size oftheir parts. I measured one man in Somali land who, whenquiescent, numbered nearly six inches. This is a characteristicof the negro race and of African animals. e.g. the horse. whereasthe pure Arab, man and beast, is below the average of Europe. oneof the best proofs by the by, that the Egyptian is not anAsiatic, but a negro partially white washed. Moreover, theseimposing parts do not increase proportionally during erection.consequently, the "deed of kind" takes a much longer time andadds greatly to the woman's enjoyment. In my time no honest HindiMoslem would take his women folk to Zanzibar on account of thehuge attractions and enormous temptations there and therebyoffered to them. Upon the subject of Imsak retention of semenand "prolongation of pleasure," I shall find it necessary to saymore.The very same words were lately spoken in England provingthe eternal truth of The Nights which the ignorant call"downright lies."The Arab's Tue la!Arab. "Sayd wa kanas": the former usually applied tofishing. hence Sayda (Sidon) fish town. But noble Arabs (exceptthe Caliph Al Amin) do not fish. so here it means simply "sport,"chasing, coursing, birding (oiseler), and so forth.In the Mac. Edit. the negro is called "Mas'ud". here heutters a kind of war cry and plays upon the name, "Sa'ad, Sa'id,Sa'ud," and "Mas'ud", all being derived from one root, "Sa'ad"auspiciousness, prosperity.The Arab. singular (whence the French "genie"), fem.Jinniyah. the Div and Rakshah of old Guebre land and the"Rakshasa," or "Yaksha," of Hinduism. It would be interesting totrace the evident connection, by no means "accidental," of "Jinn"with the "Genius" who came to the Romans through the AsiaticEtruscans, and whose name I cannot derive from "gignomai" or"genitus." He was unknown to the Greeks, who had the Daimon{Greek Letters}, a family which separated, like the Jinn and theGenius, into two categories, the good (Agatho demons) and the bad(Kako demons). We know nothing concerning the status of the Jinnamongst the pre Moslemitic or pagan Arabs: the Moslems made him asupernatural anthropoid being, created of subtile fire (Koranchapts. xv. 27. lv. 14), not of earth like man, propagating hiskind, ruled by mighty kings, the last being Jan bin Jan,missionarised by Prophets and subject to death and Judgment. Fromthe same root are "Junun" madness (i.e., possession orobsession by the Jinn) and "Majnun"a madman. According to R.Jeremiah bin Eliazar in Psalm xii. 5, Adam was excommunicated forone hundred and thirty years, during which he begat children inhis own image (Gen. v. 3) and these were Mazikeen or Shedeem Jinns. Further details anent the Jinn will presently occur.Arab. "Amsar" (cities): in Bull Edit. "Amtar" (rains), asin Mac. Edit. So Mr. Payne (I., 5) translates: And when sheflashes forth the lightning of her glance, She maketh eyes torain, like showers, with many a tear. I would render it, "Shemakes whole cities shed tears," and prefer it for a reason whichwill generally influence merits superior exaggeration andimpossibility.Not "A frit," pronounced Aye frit, as our poets have it.This variety of the Jinn, who, as will be shown, are divided intotwo races like mankind, is generally, but not always, a malignantbeing, hostile and injurious to mankind (Koran xxvii. 39).i.e., "I conjure thee by Allah." the formula istechnically called "Inshad."This introducing the name of Allah into an indecent taleis essentially Egyptian and Cairene. But see Boccaccio ii. 6, andvii. 9.So in the Mac. Edit.. in others "ninety." I prefer thegreater number as exaggeration is a part of the humour. In theHindu "Katha Sarit Sagara" (Sea of the Streams of Story), therings are one hundred and the catastrophe is more moral, the goodyouth Yashodhara rejects the wicked one's advances. she awakesthe water sprite, who is about to slay him, but the rings arebrought as testimony and the improper young person's nose is dulycut off. (Chap. Ixiii.. p. 80, of the excellent translation byProf. C. H. Tawney: for the Bibliotheca Indica: Calcutta, 1881.)The Katha, etc., by Somadeva (century xi), is a poetical versionof the prose compendium, the "Vrihat Katha" (Great Story) byGunadhya (cent. vi).The Joseph of the Koran, very different from him ofGenesis. We shall meet him often enough in The Nights."Iblis," vulgarly written "Eblis," from a root meaningThe Despairer, with a suspicious likeness to Diabolos. possiblyfrom "Bales," a profligate. Some translate it The Calumniator, asSatan is the Hater. Iblis (who appears in the Arab. version ofthe N. Testament) succeeded another revolting angel Al Haris. andhis story of pride refusing to worship Adam, is told four timesin the Koran from the Talmud (Sanhedrim 29). He caused Adam andEve to lose Paradise (ii. 34). he still betrays mankind (xxv.31), and at the end of time he, with the other devils, will be"gathered together on their knees round Hell" (xix. 69). He hasevidently had the worst of the game, and we wonder, with Origen,Tillotson, Burns and many others, that he does not throw up thecards.A similar tale is still told at Akka (St. John d'Acre)concerning the terrible "butcher" Jazzar (Djezzar) Pasha. Onecan hardly pity women who are fools enough to run such risks.According to Frizzi, Niccolo, Marquis of Este, after beheadingParisina, ordered all the faithless wives of Ferrara to betreated in like manner."Shahrazad" (Persian) City freer, in the older versionScheherazade (probably both from Shirzadlion born)."Dunyazad"World freer. The Bres. Edit. corrupts former toShahrzad or Shahrazad, and the Mac. and Calc. to Shahrzad orShehrzad. I have ventured to restore the name as it should be.Galland for the second prefers Dinarzade (?) and RichardsonDinazade (Dinazad Religion freer): here I have followed Laneand Payne. though in "First Footsteps" I was misled by Galland.See Vol. ii. p. 1.Probably she proposed to "Judith" the King. These learnedand clever young ladies are very dangerous in the East.In Egypt, etc., the bull takes the place of the Westernox. The Arab. word is "Taur" (Thaur, Saur). in old Persian "Tore"and Lat. "Taurus," a venerable remnant of the days before the"Semitic" and "Aryan" families of speech had split into twodistinct growths. "Taur" ends in the Saxon "Steor" and theEnglish "Steer "Arab. "Abu Yakzan" the Wakener, because the ass braysat dawn.Arab. "Tibn". straw crushed under the sledge: the hay ofEgypt, Arabia, Syria, etc. The old country custom is to pull upthe corn by handfuls from the roots, leaving the land perfectlybare: hence the "plucking up" of Hebrew Holy Writ. The object isto preserve every atom of "Tibn."Arab. "Ya Aftah": Al Aftah is an epithet of the bull,also of the chameleon.Arab. "Balid," a favourite Egyptianism often pleasantlyconfounded with "Wali" (a Santon), hence the latter comes to mean"an innocent," a "ninny."From the Calc. Edit., Vol. 1., p. 29.Arab. "Abu Yakzan" is hardly equivalent with "Perel'Eveille."In Arab. the wa (x) is the sign of parenthesis.In the nearer East the light little plough is carriedafield by the bull or ass.Ocymum basilicum, the "royal herb," so much prized allover the East, especially in India, where, under the name of"Tulsi," it is a shrub sacred to the merry god Krishna. I foundthe verses in a MS. copy of The Nights.Arab. "Sadaf," the Kauri, or cowrie, brought from theMaldive and Lakdive Archipelago. The Kamus describes this "Wada'"or Concha Veneris as "a white shell (whence to "shell out") whichis taken out of the sea, the fissure of which is white like thatof the date stone. It is hung about the neck to avert the evileye." The pearl in Arab. is "Murwarid," hence evidently"Margarita" and Margaris (woman's name).Arab. "Kat'a" (bit of leather): some read "Nat'a." aleather used by way of table cloth, and forming a bag forvictuals. but it is never made of bull's hide.The older "Cadi," a judge in religious matters. TheShuhud, or Assessors, are officers of the Mahkamah or Kazi'sCourt.Of which more in a future page. He thus purified himselfceremonially before death.This is Christian rather than Moslem: a favourite Maltesecurse is "Yahrak Kiddisak man rabba k!" burn the Saint whobrought thee up!A popular Egyptian phrase: the dog and the cock speaklike Fellahs.i. e. between the last sleep and dawn when they wouldrise to wash and pray.Travellers tell of a peculiar knack of jerking thedate stone, which makes it strike with great force: I never sawthis "Inwa" practised, but it reminds me of the water splashingwith one hand in the German baths.i.e., sorely against his will.Arab. "Shaykh"an old man (primarily), an elder, a chief(of the tribe, guild, etc.), and honourably addressed to any man.Comp. among the neo Latins "Sieur," "Signora," "Senor," "Senhor,"etc. from Lat. "Senior," which gave our "Sire" and "Sir." Likemany in Arabic the word has a host of different meanings and mostof them will occur in the course of The Nights. Ibrahim (Abraham)was the first Shaykh or man who became grey. Seeing his hairswhiten he cried, "O Allah what is this?" and the answer came thatit was a sign of dignified gravity. Hereupon he exclaimed, "OLord increase this to me!" and so it happened till his lockswaxed snowy white at the age of one hundred and fifty. He was thefirst who parted his hair, trimmed his mustachios, cleaned histeeth with the Miswak (tooth stick), pared his nails, shaved hispecten, snuffed up water, used ablution after stool and wore ashirt (Tabari).The word is mostly plural Jinnis: it is also singulara demon. and Jan bin Jan has been noticed.With us moderns "liver" suggests nothing but malady: inArabic and Persian as in the classic literature of Europe it isthe seat of passion, the heart being that of affection. Of thismore presently.Originally in Al Islam the concubine (Surriyat, etc.) wasa captive taken in war and the Koran says nothing about buyingslave girls. But if the captives were true believers the Moslemwas ordered to marry not to keep them. In modern days concubinagehas become an extensive subject. Practically the disadvantage isthat the slave girls, knowing themselves to be the master'sproperty, consider him bound to sleep with them. which is by nomeans the mistress's view. Some wives, however, when old andchildless, insist, after the fashion of Sarah, upon the husbandtaking a young concubine and treating her like a daughter whichis rare. The Nights abound in tales of concubines, but these arechiefly owned by the Caliphs and high officials who did much asthey pleased. The only redeeming point in the system is that itobviated the necessity of prostitution which is, perhaps, thegreatest evil known to modern society.Arab. "Al Kahanah"the craft of a "Kahin" (Heb. Cohen) adiviner, soothsayer, etc.Arab. "Id al kabir The Great Festival. the TurkishBayram and Indian Bakar eed (Kine fete), the pilgrimage time,also termed "Festival of the Kurban" (sacrifice) because victimsare slain, Al Zuha (of Undurn or forenoon), Al Azha (of serenenight) and Al Nahr (of throat cutting). For full details I mustrefer readers to my "Personal Narrative of a Pilgrimage toEl Medinah and Meccah" (3 vols. 8vo, London, Longmans, 1855). Ishall have often to refer to it.Arab. "Kalam al mubah," i.e., that allowed or permittedto her by the King, her husband.Moslem Kings are expected, like the old Gabble Monarchs,to hold "Darbar" (i.e., give public audience) at least twice aday, morning and evening. Neglect of this practice caused theruin of the Caliphate and of the Persian and Moghul Empires: thegreat lords were left uncontrolled and the lieges revolted toobtain justice. The Guebre Kings had two levee places, theRozistan (day station) and the Shabistan (night station   istanor stan being a nominal form of istadan, to stand, asHindo stan). Moreover one day in the week the sovereign acted as"Mufti" or Supreme Judge.Arab. "Al Basharah," the gift everywhere claimed in theEast and in Boccaccio's Italy by one who brings good news. Thosewho do the reverse expose themselves to a sound strappado.A euphemistic formula, to avoid mentioning unpleasantmatters. I shall note these for the benefit of students who wouldhonestly prepare for the public service in Moslem lands.Arab. "Dinar," from the Latin denarius (a silver coinworth ten ounces of brass) through the Greek {Greek Letters}: itis a Koranic word (chaps. iii.) though its Arab equivalent is"Miskal." It also occurs in the Katha before quoted, clearlyshowing the derivation. In the "Book of Kalilah and Dimnah" it isrepresented by the Daric or Persian Dinar, {Greek Letters}, fromDara a King (whence Darius). The Dinar, sequin or ducat,contained at different times from 10 and 12 (Abu Hanifah's day)to 20 and even 25 dirhams or drachmas, and, as a weight,represented a drachma and a half. Its value greatly varied, butwe may assume it here at nine shillings or ten francs to half asovereign. For an elaborate article on the Dinar see Yule's"Cathay and the Way Thither" (ii., pp. 439 443).The formula used in refusing alms to an "asker" or inrejecting an insufficient offer: "Allah will open to thee!" (somedoor of gain   not mine)! Another favourite ejaculation is "AllahKarim" (which Turks pronounce "Kyereem") Allah isAll beneficent! meaning Ask Him, not me.The public bath. London knows the word through "TheHummums."Arab. "Dirham" (Plur. dirahim, also used in the sense ofmoney, "siller"), the drachuma of Plautus (Trin. 2, 4, 23). Theword occurs in the Panchatantra also showing the derivation. andin the Syriac Kalilah wa Dimnah it is "Zuz." This silver piecewas 6 obols (9 3/4d.) and as a weight 66 1/2 grains. TheDirham of The Nights was worth six "Danik," each of these being afraction over a penny. The modern Greek Drachma isone franc.In Arabic the speaker always puts himself first, even ifhe address the King, without intending incivility.A she Ifrit, not necessarily an evil spirit.Arab. "Kullah" (in Egypt pron. "gulleh"), the widemouthed jug, called in the Hijaz "baradlyah," "daurak" being thenarrow. They are used either for water or sherbet and, being madeof porous clay, "sweat," and keep the contents cool. hence allold Anglo Egyptians drink from them, not from bottles. Sometimesthey are perfumed with smoke of incense, mastich or Kafal (AmyrisKafal). For their graceful shapes see Lane's "Account of theManners and Customs of the Modern Egyptians" (chaps. v) I quote,here and elsewhere, from the fifth edition, London, Murray, 1860."And what is?" etc. A popular way of expressing greatdifference. So in India:   "Where is Rajah Bhoj (the great King)and where is Ganga the oilman?"Here, as in other places, I have not preserved themonorhyme, but have ended like the English sonnet with a couplet.as a rule the last two lines contain a "Husn makta'" or climax.Lit. "he began to say (or speak) poetry," suchimprovising being still common amongst the Badawin as I shallafterwards note. And although Mohammed severely censured profanepoets, who "rove as bereft of their senses through every valley"and were directly inspired by devils (Koran xxvi.), it is not alittle curious to note that he himself spoke in "Rajaz" (whichsee) and that the four first Caliphs all "spoke poetry." In earlyages the verse would not be written, if written at all, tillafter the maker's death. I translate "inshad" by "versifying" or"repeating" or "reciting," leaving it doubtful if the compositionbe or be not original. In places, however, it is clearlyimprovised and then as a rule it is model doggrel.Arab. "Allahumma"Ya Allah (O Allah) but with emphasisthe Fath being a substitute for the voc. part. Some connect itwith the Heb. "Alihim," but that fancy is not Arab. In Al Haririand the rhetoricians it sometimes means to be sure. of course.unless indeed. unless possibly.Probably in consequence of a vow. These superstitiouspractices, which have many a parallel amongst ourselves, are notconfined to the lower orders in the East.i.e., saying "Bismillah!" the pious ejaculation whichshould precede every act. In Boccaccio (viii., 9) it is"remembering Iddio e' Santi."Arab. Nahas asfar brass, opposed to "Nahas" and "Nahasahmar," copper.This alludes to the legend of Sakhr al Jinn), a famousfiend cast by Solomon David son into Lake Tiberias whose stormsmake it a suitable place. Hence the "Bottle imp," a world widefiction of folk lore: we shall find it in the "Book of Sindibad,"and I need hardly remind the reader of Le Sage's "DiableBoiteux," borrowed from "El Diablo Cojuelo," the Spanish novel byLuiz Velez de Guevara.Marid (lit. "contumacious" from the Heb. root Marad torebel, whence "Nimrod" in late Semitic) is one of the tribes ofthe Jinn, generally but not always hostile to man. His female is"Maridah."As Solomon began to reign (according to vulgarchronometry) in B.C. 1015, the text would place the tale circ.A.D. 785, A.H. 169. But we can lay no stress on this date whichmay be merely fanciful. Professor Tawney very justly comparesthis Moslem Solomon with the Hindu King, Vikramaditya, who ruledover the seven divisions of the world and who had as many devilsto serve him as he wanted.Arab. "Ya Ba'id:" a euphemism here adopted to preventusing grossly abusive language. Others will occur in the courseof these pages.i. e. about to fly out. "My heart is in my mouth." TheFisherman speaks with the dry humour of a Fellah."Sulayman," when going out to ease himself, entrusted hisseal ring upon which his kingdom depended to a concubine "Aminah"(the "Faithful"), when Sakhr, transformed to the King's likeness,came in and took it. The prophet was reduced to beggary, butafter forty days the demon fled throwing into the sea the ringwhich was swallowed by a fish and eventually returned toSulayman. This Talmudic fable is hinted at in the Koran (chaps.xxxviii.), and commentators have extensively embroidered it.Asaf, son of Barkhiya, was Wazir to Sulayman and is supposed tobe the "one with whom was the knowledge of the Scriptures"(Koran, chaps. xxxvii.), i.e. who knew the Ineffable Name ofAllah. See the manifest descendant of the Talmudic Koranicfiction in the "Tale of the Emperor Jovinian" (No. lix.) of theGesta Romanorum, the most popular book of medieval Europecomposed in England (or Germany) about the end of the thirteenthcentury.Arab. "Kumkam," a gourd shaped bottle of metal, china orglass, still used for sprinkling scents. Lane gives anillustration (chaps. viii., Mod. Egypt.).Arab. meaning "the Mother of Amir," a nickname for thehyena, which bites the hand that feeds it.The intellect of man is stronger than that of the Jinni.the Ifrit, however, enters the jar because he has been adjured bythe Most Great Name and not from mere stupidity. The seal ring ofSolomon according to the Rabbis contained a chased stone whichtold him everything he wanted to know.The Mesmerist will notice this shudder which is familiarto him as preceding the "magnetic" trance.Arab. "Bahr" which means a sea, a large river, a sheet ofwater, etc., lit. water cut or trenched in the earth. Bahri inEgypt means Northern. so Yamm (Sea, Mediterranean) in Hebrew isWest.In the Bull Edit. "Ruyan," evidently a clerical error.The name is fanciful not significant.The geography is ultra Shakespearean. "Fars" (whence"Persia") is the central Province of the grand old Empire now amere wreck, "Rum" (which I write Roum, in order to avoid Jamaica)is the neo Roman or Byzantine Empire, while "Yunan" is theclassical Arab term for Greece (Ionia) which unlearned Moslemsbelieve to be now under water.The Sun greets Mohammed every morning even as it danceson Easter Day for Christendom. Risum teneatis?Arab. "Nadim," a term often occurring. It denotes one whowas intimate enough to drink with the Caliph, a very high honourand a dangerous. The last who sat with "Nudama" was Al Razibi'llah A.H. 329 940. See Al Siyuti's famous "History of theCaliphs" translated and admirably annotated by Major H. S.Jarrett, for the Bibliotheca Indica, Calcutta, 1880.Arab. Maydan (from Persian). Lane generally translates it"horse course ' and Payne "tilting yard." It is both andsomething more. an open space, in or near the city, used forreviewing troops, races, playing the Jerid (cane spear) and othersports and exercises: thus Al MaydanGr. hippodrome. The gamehere alluded to is our  'polo," or hockey on horseback, afavourite with the Persian Kings, as all old illustrations of theShahnamah show. Maydan is also a natural plain for which copiousArabic has many terms, Fayhah or Sath (a plain generally), Khabt(a low lying plain), Bat'ha (a low sandy flat), Mahattah (a plainfit for halting) and so forth. (Pilgrimage iii., 11.)For details concerning the "Ghusl" see Night xliv.A popular idiom and highly expressive, contrasting theupright bearing of the self satisfied man with the slouch of themiserable and the skirt trailing of the woman in grief. I do notsee the necessity of such Latinisms as "dilated" or "expanded."All these highest signs of favour foreshow, in Easterntales and in Eastern life, an approaching downfall of theheaviest. they are so great that they arouse general jealousy.Many of us have seen this at native courts.This phrase is contained in the word "ihdak"encompassing, as the conjunctive does the pupil.I have noted this formula, which is used even inconversation when about to relate some great unfact.We are obliged to English the word by "valley," which isabout as correct as the "brook Kedron," applied to the grisliestof ravines. The Wady (in old Coptic wah, oah, whence "Oasis") isthe bed of a watercourse which flows only after rains. I haverendered it by "Fiumara" (Pilgrimage i., 5, and ii., 196, etc.),an Italian or rather a Sicilian word which exactly describes the"wady."I have described this scene which Mr. T. Wolf illustratedby an excellent lithograph in "Falconry, etc." (London, VanVoorst, MDCCCLII.)Arab. "Kaylulah," mid day sleep. called siesta from thesixth canonical hour.This parrot story is world wide in folk lore and thebelief in metempsychosis, which prevails more or less over allthe East, there lends it probability. The "Book of Sindibad" (seeNight dlxxix. and "The Academy," Sept. 20, 1884, No. 646)converts it into the "Story of the Confectioner, his Wife and theParrot," and it is the base of the Hindostani text  book,"Tota Kahani" (Parrot chat), an abridgement of the Tutinamah(Parrot book) of Nakhshabi (circ. A.D. 1300), a congener of theSanskrit "Suka Saptati," or Seventy Parrot stories. The tale isnot in the Bull. or Mac. Edits. but occurs in the Bresl. (i., pp.90, 91) much mutilated. and better in the Calc. Edit I cannothere refrain from noticing how vilely the twelve vols. of theBreslau Edit have been edited. even a table of contents beingabsent from the first four volumes.The young "Turk" is probably a late addition, as it doesnot appear in many of the MSS., e. g. the Bresl. Edit. The wifeusually spreads a cloth over the cage. this in the Turkishtranslation becomes a piece of leather.The Hebrew Syrian month July used to express the heightof summer. As Herodotus tells us (ii. 4) the Egyptians claimed tobe the discoverers of the solar year and the portioners of itscourse into twelve parts.This proceeding is thoroughly characteristic of theservile class. they conscientiously conceal everything from themaster till he finds a clew. after which they tell him everythingand something more.Until late years, merchants and shopkeepers in the nearerEast all carried and held it a disgrace to leave the houseunarmed.The Bresl. Edit. absurdly has Jazirah (an island).The Ghulah (fem. of Ghul) is the Heb. Lilith or Lilis.the classical Lamia. the Hindu Yogini and Dakini, the ChaldeanUtug and Gigim (desert demons) as opposed to the Mas (hill demon)and Telal (who steal into towns). the Ogress of our tales and theBala yaga (Granny witch) of Russian folk lore. Etymologically"Ghul" is a calamity, a panic fear. and the monster is evidentlythe embodied horror of the grave and the graveyard.Arab. "Shabb" (Lat. juvenis) between puberty and forty oraccording to some fifty. when the patient becomes a "Rajulikhtiyar" (man of free will) politely termed, and then a Shaykhor Shaybah (gray beard, oldster).Some proverbial name now forgotten. Torrens (p. 48)translates it "the giglot" (Fortune?) but "cannot discover thedrift."Arab. "Ihtizaz," that natural and instinctive movementcaused by good news suddenly given, etc.Arab. "Kohl," in India, Surmah, not a "collyrium," butpowdered antimony for the eyelids. That sold in the bazars is notthe real grey ore of antimony but a galena or sulphuret of lead.Its use arose as follows. When Allah showed Himself to Moses onSinai through an opening the size of a needle, the Prophetfainted and the Mount took fire: thereupon Allah said,"Henceforth shalt thou and thy seed grind the earth of thismountain and apply it to your eyes!" The powder is kept in anetui called Makhalah and applied with a thick blunt needle to theinside of the eyelid, drawing it along the rim. hence etui andprobe denote the sexual rem in re and in cases of adultery thequestion will be asked, "Didst thou see the needle in theKohl pot ?" Women mostly use a preparation of soot or lamp black(Hind. Kajala, Kajjal) whose colour is easily distinguished fromthat of Kohl. The latter word, with the article (Al Kohl) is theorigin of our "alcohol." though even M. Littre fails to show how"fine powder" became "spirits of wine." I found this powder(wherewith Jezebel "painted" her eyes) a great preservative fromophthalmia in desert travelling: the use in India was universal,but now European example is gradually abolishing it.The tale of these two women is now forgotten.Arab. "Atadakhkhal." When danger threatens it iscustomary to seize a man's skirt and cry "Dakhil ak!" ( underthy protection). Among noble tribes the Badawi thus invoked willdefend the stranger with his life. Foreigners have broughtthemselves into contempt by thus applying to women or to mereyouths.The formula of quoting from the Koran.Lit. "Allah not desolate me" (by thine absence). This isstill a popular phrase   La tawahishna Do not make me desolate,i.e. by staying away too long, and friends meeting after a termof days exclaim "Auhashtani!"thou hast made me desolate, Je suisdesole.Charming simplicity of manners when the Prime Ministercarries the fish (shade of Vattel!)!) to the cookmaid. The "GestaRomanorum" is nowhere more naive.Arab. "Kahilat al taraf" lit. eyelids lined with Kohl.and figuratively "with black lashes and languorous look." This isa phrase which frequently occurs in The Nights and which, as willappear, applies to the "lower animals" as well as to men. Moslemsin Central Africa apply Kohl not to the thickness of the eyelidbut upon both outer lids, fixing it with some greasy substance.The peculiar Egyptian (and Syrian) eye with its thick fringes ofjet black lashes, looking like lines of black drawn with soot,easily suggests the simile. In England I have seen the sameappearance amongst miners fresh from the colliery.Of course applying to her own case.Prehistoric Arabs who measured from 60 to 100 cubitshigh: Koran, chaps. xxvi., etc. They will often be mentioned inThe Nights.I Arab. "Dastur" (from Persian) leave, permission. Theword has two meanings (see Burckhardt, Arab. Prov. No. 609) andis much used, ea. before walking up stairs or entering a roomwhere strange women might be met. So "Tarik" Clear the way(Pilgrimage, iii., 319). The old Persian occupation of Egypt, notto speak of the Persian speaking Circassians and other rulers hasleft many such traces in popular language. One of them is thathorror of travelers   "Bakhshish" pron. bakh sheesh and shortenedto shish from the Pers. "bakhshish." Our "Christmas box" has beenmost unnecessarily derived from the same, despite our reading: Gladly the boy, with Christmas box in hand.And, as will be seen, Persians have bequeathed to the outer worldworse things than bad language, e.g. heresy and sodomy.He speaks of his wife but euphemistically in themasculine.A popular saying throughout Al Islam.Arab. "Fata": lit.a youth. a generous man, one of noblemind (as youth tide should be). It corresponds with the Lat."vir," and has much the meaning of the Ital. "Giovane," the Germ."Junker" and our "gentleman."From the Bul. Edit.The vagueness of his statement is euphemistic.This readiness of shedding tears contrasts strongly withthe external stoicism of modern civilization. but it is true toArab character, and Easterns, like the heroes of Homer andItalians of Boccacio, are not ashamed of what we look upon as theresult of feminine hysteria   "a good cry."The formula (constantly used by Moslems) here denotesdispleasure, doubt how to act and so forth. Pronounce, "La haulawa la kuwwata illa bi 'llahi 'I Aliyyi 'I Azim." As a rulemistakes are marvellous: Mandeville (chaps. xii.) for "La ilahailla 'llahu wa Muhammadun Rasulu 'llah" writes "La ellec sila,Machomete rores alla." The former (la haula, etc.), on account ofthe four peculiar Arabic letters, is everywhere pronounceddifferently. and the exclamation is called "Haulak" or "Haukal."An Arab holds that he has a right to marry his firstcousin, the daughter of his father's brother, and if any win herfrom him a death and a blood feud may result. It was the same ina modified form amongst the Jews and in both races theconsanguineous marriage was not attended by the evil results(idiotcy, congenital deafness, etc.) observed in mixed races likethe English and the Anglo American. When a Badawi speaks of "thedaughter of my uncle" he means wife. and the former is the dearertitle, as a wife can be divorced, but blood is thicker thanwater.Arab. "Kahbah." the coarsest possible term. Hence theunhappy "Cave" of Don Roderick the Goth, which simply means TheWhore.The Arab "Banj" and Hindu "Bhang" (which I use as mostfamiliar) both derive from the old Coptic "Nibanj" meaning apreparation of hemp (Cannabis sativa seu Indica). and here it iseasy to recognise the Homeric "Nepenthe." Al  Kazwini explainsthe term by "garden hemp (Kinnab bostani or Shahdanaj). On theother hand not a few apply the word to the henbane (hyoscyamusniger) so much used in medieval Europe. The Kamus evidently meanshenbane distinguishing it from Hashish al harafish" rascals'grass, i.e. the herb Pantagruelion. The "Alfaz Adwiya" (Frenchtranslation) explains "Tabannuj" by "Endormir quelqu'un en luifaisant avaler de la jusquiame." In modern parlance Tabannuj isour anesthetic administered before an operation, a deadener ofpain like myrrh and a number of other drugs. For this purposehemp is always used (at least I never heard of henbane). andvarious preparations of the drug are sold at an especial bazar inCairo. See the "powder of marvellous virtue" in Boccaccio, iii.,8. and iv., 10. Of these intoxicants, properly so termed, I shallhave something to say in a future page.The use of Bhang doubtless dates from the dawn of civilisation,whose earliest social pleasures would be inebriants. Herodotus(iv. c. 75) shows the Scythians burning the seeds (leaves andcapsules) in worship and becoming drunken with the fumes, as dothe S. African Bushmen of the present day. This would be theearliest form of smoking: it is still doubtful whether the pipewas used or not. Galen also mentions intoxication by hemp.Amongst Moslems, the Persians adopted the drink as an ecstatic,and about our thirteenth century Egypt, which began the practice,introduced a number of preparations to be noticed in the courseof The Nights.The rubbish heaps which outlie Eastern cities, some(near Cairo) are over a hundred feet high.Arab. "Kurrat al aye." coolness of eyes as opposed to ahot eye ("sakhin") one red with tears. The term is true andpicturesque so I translate it literally. All coolness is pleasantto dwellers in burning lands: thus in Al Hariri Abu Z yd says ofBassorah, "I found there whatever could fill the eye withcoolness." And a "cool booty" (or prize) is one which has beensecured without plunging into the flames of war, or imply apleasant prize.Popularly rendered Caucasus (see Night cdxcvi): itcorresponds so far with the Hindu "Udaya" that the sun risesbehind it. and the "false dawn" is caused by a hole or gap. It isalso the Persian Alborz, the Indian Meru (Sumeru), the GreekOlympus and the Rhiphean Range (Veliki Camenypoys) or greatstarry girdle of the world, etc.Arab. "Mizr" or "Mizar." vulg. Buzah. hence the medicalLat. Buza, the Russian Buza (millet beer), our booze, the O.Dutch "buyzen" and the German "busen." This is the oldof negro and negroid Africa, the beer of Osiris, of which driedremains have been found in jars amongst Egyptian tombs. InEquatorial Africa it known as Pombe. on the Upper Nile "Merissa"or "Mirisi" and amongst the Kafirs (Caffers) "Tshuala," "Oala" or"Boyala:" I have also heard of "Buswa"in Central Africa which maybe the origin of "Buzah." In the West it became , (Romaic), Xythum and cerevisia or cervisia, the humor ex hordeo,long before the days of King Gambrinus. Central Africans drink itin immense quantities: in Unyamwezi the standing bedsteads,covered with bark slabs, are all made sloping so as to drain offthe liquor. A chief lives wholly on beef and Pombe which is thickas gruel below. Hops are unknown: the grain, mostly Holcus, ismade to germinate, then pounded, boiled and left to ferment. InEgypt the drink is affected chiefly by Berbers, Nubians andslaves from the Upper Nile, but it is a superior article and morelike that of Europe than the "Pombe." I have given an account ofthe manufacture in The Lake Regions of Central Africa, vol. ii.,p. 286. There are other preparations, Umm bulbul (mother nightiegale), Dinzayah and Subiyah, for which I must refer to the ShaykhEl Tounsy.There is a terrible truth in this satire, which remindsus of the noble dame who preferred to her handsome husband thepalefrenier laid, ord et infame of Queen Margaret of Navarre(Heptameron No. xx.). We have all known women who sacrificedeverything despite themselves, as it were, for the most worthlessof men. The world stares and scoffs and blames and understandsnothing. There is for every woman one man and one only in whoseslavery she is "ready to sweep the floor." Fate is mostly opposedto her meeting him but, when she does, adieu husband andchildren, honour and religion, life and "soul." Moreover Nature(human) commands the union of contrasts, such as fair and foul,dark and light, tall and short. otherwise mankind would be likethe canines, a race of extremes, dwarf as toy terriers, giantslike mastiffs, bald as Chinese "remedy dogs," or hairy asNewfoundlands. The famous Wilkes said only a half truth when hebacked himself, with an hour s start, against the handsomest manin England. his uncommon and remarkable ugliness (he was, as theItalians say, un bel brutto) was the highest recommendation inthe eyes of very beautiful women.Every Moslem burial ground has a place of the kind wherehonourable women may sit and weep unseen by the multitude. Thesevisits are enjoined by the Apostle: Frequent the cemetery,'twill make you think of futurity! Also: Whoever visiteth thegraves of his parents (or one of them) every Friday, he shall bewritten a pious son, even though he might have been in the world,before that, a disobedient. (Pilgrimage, ii., 71.) The buildingsresemble our European "mortuary chapels." Said, Pasha of Egypt,was kind enough to erect one on the island off Suez, for the "useof English ladies who would like shelter whilst weeping andwailing for their dead." But I never heard that any of the ladleswent there.Arab. "Ajal"the period of life, the appointed time ofdeath: the word is of constant recurrence and is also applied tosudden death. See Lane's Dictionary, s.v."The dying Badawi to his tribe" (and lover) appears tome highly pathetic. The wild people love to be buried upon hillslopes whence they can look down upon the camp. and they stillcall out the names of kinsmen and friends as they pass by thegrave yards. A similar piece occurs in Wetzstein (p. 27,"Reisebericht ueber Hauran," etc.): O bear with you my bones where the camel bears his loadAnd bury me before you, if buried I must be.And let me not be burled 'neath the burden of the vineBut high upon the hill whence your sight I ever see!As you pass along my grave cry aloud and name your namesThe crying of your names shall revive the bones of me:I have fasted through my life with my friends, and in mydeath, I will feast when we meet, on that day of joy andglee.The Akasirah (plur. of KasraChosroes) is here a titleof the four great dynasties of Persian Kings. 1. The Peshdadianor Assyrian race, proto historics for whom dates fail, 2. TheKayanian (Medes and Persians) who ended with the Alexandrianinvasion in B. C. 331. 3. The Ashkanian (Parthenians orArsacides) who ruled till A. D. 202. and 4. The Sassanides whichhave already been mentioned. But strictly speaking "Kisri" and"Kasra" are titles applied only to the latter dynasty andespecially to the great King Anushirwan. They must not beconfounded with "Khusrau" (P. N. Cyrus, Ahasuerus? Chosroes?),and yet the three seem to have combined in "Cesar," Kaysar andCzar. For details especially connected with Zoroaster see vol. I,p. 380 of the Dabistan or School of Manners, translated by DavidShea and Anthony Troyer, Paris, 1843. The book is most valuable,but the proper names are so carelessly and incorrectly printedthat the student is led into perpetual error.The words are the very lowest and coarsest. but thescene is true to Arab life.Arab."Hayhat:" the word, written in a variety of ways isonomatopoetic, like our "heigh ho!" it sometimes means "far fromme (or you) be it!" but in popular usage it is simply "Alas."Lane (i., 134) finds a date for the book in thispassage. The Soldan of Egypt, Mohammed ibn Kala'un, in the earlyeighth century (Hijrah our fourteenth), issued a sumptuary lawcompelling Christians and Jews to wear indigo blue andsaffron yellow turbans, the white being reserved for Moslems. Butthe custom was much older and Mandeville (chaps. ix.) describesit in A. D. 1322 when it had become the rule. And it stillendures. although abolished in the cities it is the rule forChristians, at least in the country parts of Egypt and Syria. Imay here remark that such detached passages as these areabsolutely useless for chronology: they may be simply theadditions of editors or mere copyists.The ancient "Mustapha" the Chosen (prophet, i. e.Mohammed), also titled Al Mujtaba, the Accepted (Pilgrimage, ii.,309). "Murtaza"the Elect, i.e. the Caliph Ali is the older"Mortada" or "Mortadi" of Ockley and his day, meaning "onepleasing to (or acceptable to) Allah." Still older writerscorrupted it to "Mortis Ali" and readers supposed this to be theCaliph's name.The gleam (zodiacal light) preceding the true dawn. thePersians call the former Subh i kazib (false or lying dawn)opposed to Subh i sadik (true dawn) and suppose that it is causedby the sun shining through a hole in the world  encircling MountKaf.So the Heb. "Arun" naked, means wearing the lower robeonly. our "in his shirt."Here we have the vulgar Egyptian colloquialism "Aysh"( Ayyu shayyin) for the classical "Ma" what."In the name of Allah!" here said before taking action.Arab. "Mamluk" (plur. Mamalik) lit. a chattel. and inThe Nights a white slave trained to arms. The "Mameluke Beys" ofEgypt were locally called the "Ghuzz," I use the convenient wordin its old popular sense.'Tis sung, there's a valiant MamelukeIn foreign lands ycleped (Sir Luke) HUDIBRAS.And hence, probably, Moliere's "Mamamouchi". and the modernFrench use "Mamalue." See Savary's Letters, No. xl.The name of this celebrated succesor of Nineveh, wheresome suppose The Nights were written, is orig. (middle gates) because it stood on the way where four great highwaysmeet. The Arab. form "Mausil" (the vulgar "Mosul") is alsosignificant, alluding to the "junction" of Assyria and Babylonis.Hence our "muslin."This is Mr. Thackeray's "nose bag." I translate by"walking shoes" the Arab "Khuff" which are a manner of loose bootcovering the ankle. they are not usually embroidered, theornament being reserved for the inner shoe.i.e. Syria (says Abulfeda) the "land on the left" (ofone facing the east) as opposed to Al Yaman the "land on theright." Osmani would mean Turkish, Ottoman. When Bernard the Wise(Bohn, p. 24) speaks of "Bagada and Axiam" (Mabillon's text) or"Axinarri" (still worse), he means Baghdad and Ash Sham (Syria,Damascus), the latter word puzzling his Editor. Richardson(Dissert, lxxii.) seems to support a hideous attempt to deriveSham from Shamat, a mole or wart, because the country is studdedwith hillocks! Al Sham is often applied to Damascus city whoseproper name Dimishk belongs to books: this term is generallyderived from Damashik b. Kali b. Malik b. Sham (Shem). Lee (IbnBatutah, 29) denies that ha Dimishki means "Eliezer of Damascus."From Oman Eastern Arabia.Arab. "Tamar Hanna" lit. date of Henna, but applied tothe flower of the eastern privet (Lawsonia inermis) which has thesweet scent of freshly mown hay. The use of Henna as a dye isknown even in Enland. The "myrtle" alluded to may either havebeen for a perfume (as it is held an anti intoxicant) or foreating, the bitter aromatic berries of the "As" being supposed toflavour wine and especially Raki (raw brandy).Lane. (i. 211) pleasantly remarks, "A list of thesesweets is given in my original, but I have thought it better toomit the names" (!) Dozy does not shirk his duty, but he is notmuch more satisfactory in explaining words interesting tostudents because they are unfound in dictionaries and forgottenby the people. "Akras (cakes) Laymuniyah (of limes) waMaymuniyah" appears in the Bresl. Edit. as "Ma'amuniyah" whichmay mean "Ma'amun's cakes" or "delectable cakes." "Amshat"(combs) perhaps refers to a fine kind of Kunafah (vermicelli)known in Egypt and Syria as "Ghazl al banat" girl's spinning.The new moon carefully looked for by all Moslems becauseit begins the Ramazan fast.Solomon's signet ring has before been noticed.The "high bosomed" damsel, with breasts firm as a cube,is a favourite with Arab tale tellers. Fanno baruffa is theItalian term for hard breasts pointing outwards.A large hollow navel is looked upon not only as abeauty, but in children it is held a promise of good growth.Arab. "Ka'ah," a high hall opening upon the centralcourt: we shall find the word used for a mansion, barrack, men'squarters, etc.Babel Gate of God (El), or Gate of Ilu (P. N. of God),which the Jews ironically interpreted "Confusion." The traditionof Babylonia being the very centre of witchcraft and enchantmentby means of its Seven Deadly Spirits, has survived in Al Islam.the two fallen angels (whose names will occur) being confined ina well. Nimrod attempting to reach Heaven from the Tower in amagical car drawn by monstrous birds and so forth. See p. 114,Francois Fenormant's "Chaldean Magic," London, Bagsters.Arab. "Kamat Alfiyyah" like the letter Alif, astraight perpendicular stroke. In the Egyptian hieroglyphs, theorigin of every alphabet (not syllabarium) known to man, one formwas a flag or leaf of water plant standing upright. Henceprobably the Arabic Alif shape. while other nations preferredother modifications of the letter (ox's head, etc), which inEgyptian number some thirty six varieties, simple and compound.I have not attempted to order this marvellous confusion ofmetaphors so characteristic of The Nights and the exigencies of Al Saj'a rhymed prose.Here and elsewhere I omit the "kala (dice Turpino)" of theoriginal: Torrens preserves "Thus goes the tale" (which it onlyinterrupts). This is simply letter wise and sense foolish.Of this worthy more at a future time.i.e., sealed with the Kazi or legal authority's seal ofoffice."Nothing for nothing" is a fixed idea with the Easternwoman: not so much for greed as for a sexual point d' honneur whendealing with the adversary man.She drinks first, the custom of the universal East, toshow that the wine she had bought was unpoisoned. Easterns, whoutterly ignore the "social glass" of Western civilisation drinkhonestly to get drunk. and, when far gone are addicted to horse play (in Pers. "Badmasti" le vin mauvais) which leads to quarrelsand bloodshed. Hence it is held highly irreverent to assert ofpatriarchs, prophets and saints that they "drank wine." and Moslemsagree with our "Teatotallers" in denying that, except in the caseof Noah, inebriatives are anywhere mentioned in Holy Writ.Arab. "Hur al Ayn," lit. (maids) with eyes of lively whiteand black, applied to the virgins of Paradise who will wive withthe happy Faithful. I retain our vulgar "Houri," warning the readerthat it is a masc. for a fem. ("Huriyah") in Arab, althoughaccepted in Persian, a genderless speach.Arab. "Zambur," whose head is amputated in femalecircumcision. See Night cccclxxiv.Ocymum basilicum noticed in Introduction, the bassilico ofBoccaccio iv. 5. The Book of Kalilah and Dimnah represents it as"sprouting with something also whose smell is foul and disgustingand the sower at once sets to gather it and burn it with fire."(The Fables of Bidpai translated from the later Syriac version byI. G. N. Keith Falconer, etc., etc., etc., Cambridge UniversityPress, 1885). Here, however, Habk is a pennyroyal (menthapuligium), and probably alludes to the pecten.i. e. common property for all to beat."A digit of the moon" is the Hindu equivalent.Better known to us as Caravanserai, the "Travellers'Bungalow" of India: in the Khan, however, shelter is to be had, butneither bed nor board.Arab. "Zubb." I would again note that this and itssynonyms are the equivalents of the Arabic, which is of the lowest.The tale teller's evident object is to accentuate the contrast withthe tragical stories to follow."ln the name of Allah," is here a civil form ofdismissal.Lane (i. 124) is scandalised and naturally enough by thisscene, which is the only blot in an admirable tale admirably told.Yet even here the grossness is but little more pronounced than whatwe find in our old drama (e. g., Shakespeare's King Henry V.)written for the stage, whereas tales like The Nights are not reador recited before both sexes. Lastly "nothing follows all thispalming work:" in Europe the orgie would end very differently.These "nuns of Theleme" are physically pure: their debauchery is ofthe mind, not the body. Galland makes them five, including the twodoggesses.So Sir Francis Walsingham's "They which do that theyshould not, should hear that they would not."The old "Calendar," pleasantly associated with that formof almanac. The Mac. Edit. has Karandaliyah," a vile corruption,like Ibn Batutah's "Karandar" and Torrens' "Kurundul:" so inEnglish we have the accepted vulgarism of "Kernel" for Colonel. TheBull Edit. uses for synonym "Su'uluk"an asker, a beggar. Of thesemendicant monks, for such they are, much like the Sarabaites ofmedieval Europe, I have treated and of their institutions and itsfounder, Shaykh Sharif Bu Ali Kalandar (ob. A. H. 724 1323 24), atsome length in my "History of Sindh," chaps. viii. See also theDabistan (i. 136) where the good Kalandar exclaims: If the thorn break in my body, how trifling the pain!But how sorely I feel for the poor broken thorn!D'Herbelot is right when he says that the Kalandar is not generallyapproved by Moslems: he labours to win free from every form andobservance and he approaches the Malamati who conceals all hisgooddeeds and boasts of his evil doings our "Devil's hypocrite."The "Kalandar" disfigures himself in this manner to show"mortification."Arab. "Gharib:" the porter is offended because the wordimplies "poor devil." esp. one out of his own country.A religious mendicant generally.Very scandalous to Moslem "respectability" Mohammed saidthe house was accursed when the voices of women could be heard outof doors. Moreover the neighbours have a right to interfere andabate the scandal.I need hardly say that these are both historicalpersonages. they will often be mentioned, and Ja'afar will benoticed in the Terminal Essay.Arab. "Same 'an wa ta'atan". a popular phrase of assentgenerally translated "to hear is to obey." but this formula may beand must be greatly varied. In places it means "Hearing (the wordof Allah) and obeying" (His prophet, viceregent, etc.)Arab. "Sawab"reward in Heaven. This word for which wehave no equivalent has been naturalized in all tongues (e. g.Hindostani) spoken by Moslems.Wine drinking, at all times forbidden to Moslems, vitiatesthe Pilgrimage rite: the Pilgrim is vowed to a strict observance ofthe ceremonial law and many men date their "reformation" from the"Hajj." Pilgrimage, iii., 126.Here some change has been necessary. as the original textconfuses the three "ladies."In Arab. the plural masc. is used by way of modesty whena girl addresses her lover and for the same reason she speaks ofherself as a man.Arab. "Al Na'im", in ful "Jannat al Na'im" the Garden ofDelights, i.e. the fifth Heaven made of white silver. The genericname of Heaven (the place of reward) is "Jannat," lit. a garden."Firdaus" being evidently derived from the Persian through theGreek {Greek Letters}, and meaning a chase, a hunting park. Writerson this subject should bear in mind Mandeville's modesty, "OfParadise I cannot speak properly, for I was not there."Arab. "Mikra'ah," the dried mid rib of a date frond usedfor many purposes, especially the bastinado.According to Lane (i., 229) these and the immediatelyfollowing verses are from an ode by Ibn Sahl al Ishbili. They arein the Bull Edit. not the Mac. Edit.The original is full of conceits and plays on words whichare not easily rendered in English.Arab. "Tarjuman," same root as Chald. Targum ( atranslation), the old "Truchman," and through the Ital. "tergomano"our "Dragoman," here a messenger.Lit. the "person of the eyes," our "babe of the eyes," afavourite poetical conceit in all tongues. much used by theElizabethans, but now neglected as a silly kind of conceit. SeeNight ccix.Arab. "Sar" (Thar) the revenge right recognised by law andcustom (Pilgrimage, iii., 69).That is "We all swim in the same boat."Ja'afar ever acts, on such occasions, the part of a wiseand sensible man compelled to join in a foolish frolic. Hecontrasts strongly with the Caliph, a headstrong despot who willnot be gainsaid, whatever be the whim of the moment. But Easternswould look upon this as a proof of his "kingliness."Arab. "Wa'l  Salam" (pronounced Was Salam). meaning "andhere ends the matter." In our slang we say "All right, and thechild's name is Antony."This is a favourite jingle, the play being upon "ibrat" (aneedle graver) and " 'ibrat" (an example, a warning).That is "make his bow," as the English peasant pulls hisforelock. Lane (i., 249) suggests, as an afterthought, that itmeans: "Recover thy senses. in allusion to a person's drawing hishand over his head after sleep or a fit." But it occurs elsewherein the sense of "cut thy stick."This would be a separate building like our family tomb andprobably domed, resembling that mentioned in "The King of the BlackIslands." Europeans usually call it "a little Wali." or, as theywrite it, "Wely," the contained for the container. the "Santon" forthe "Santon's tomb." I have noticed this curious confusion (whichbegins with Robinson, i. 322) in "Unexplored Syria," i. 161.Arab. "Wiswas," diabolical temptation or suggestion. The"Wiswasi" is a man with scruples (scrupulus, a pebble in the shoe),e.g. one who fears that his ablutions were deficient, etc.Arab. "Katf" pinioning by tying the arms behind the backand shoulders (Kitf) a dire disgrace to free born men.Arab. "Nafs."Hebr. Nephesh (Nafash) soul, life asopposed to "Ruach" spirit and breath. In these places it isequivalent to "I said to myself." Another form of the root is"Nafas," breath, with an idea of inspiration: so 'Sahib Nafas"(master of breath) is a minor saint who heals by expiration, amatter familiar to mesmerists (Pilgrimage, i., 86).Arab. "Kaus al Banduk." the "pellet bow" of modern India.with two strings joined by a bit of cloth which supports a ball ofdry clay or stone. It is chiefly used for birding.In the East blinding was a common practice, especially inthe case of junior princes not required as heirs. A deepperpendicular incision was made down each corner of the eyes. thelids were lifted and the balls removed by cutting the optic nerveand the muscles. The later Caliphs blinded their victims by passinga red hot sword blade close to the orbit or a needle over theeye ball. About the same time in Europe the operation was performedwith a heated metal basin the well known bacinare (used byAriosto), as happened to Pier delle Vigne (Petrus de Vinea), the"godfather of modern Italian."Arab. "Khinzir" (by Europeans pronounced "Hanzir"), prop.a wild boar, but popularly used like our "you pig!"Striking with the shoe, the pipe stick and similararticles is highly insulting, because they are not made, like whipsand scourges, for such purpose. Here the East and the West differdiametrically. "Wounds which are given by instruments which are inone's hands by chance do not disgrace a man," says Cervantes (D. Q.i., chaps. 15), and goes on to prove that if a Zapatero (cobbler)cudgel another with his form or last, the latter must not considerhimself cudgelled. The reverse in the East where a blow of a pipestick cost Mahommed Ali Pasha's son his life: Ishmail Pasha wasburned to death by Malik Nimr, chief of Shendy (Pilgrimage, i.,203). Moreover, the actual wound is less considered in Moslem lawthan the instrument which caused it: so sticks and stones arevenial weapons, whilst sword and dagger, gun and pistol arefelonious. See ibid. (i., 336) for a note upon the weapons withwhich nations are policed.Incest is now abominable everywhere except amongst theovercrowded poor of great and civilised cities. Yet such unionswere common and lawful amongst ancient and highly cultivatedpeoples, as the Egyptians (Isis and Osiris), Assyrians and ancientPersians. Physiologically they are injurious only when the parentshave constitutional defects: if both are sound, the issue, asamongst the so called "lower animals " is viable and healthy.Dwellers in the Northern Temperates can hardly imaginewhat a dust storm is in sun parched tropical lands. In Sind we wereoften obliged to use candles at mid day, while above the dust wasa sun that would roast an egg.Arab. " 'Urban," now always used of the wild people, whomthe French have taught us to call les Bedouins. "Badw" being awaste or desert, and Badawi (fem. Badawiyah, plur. Badawi andBidwan), a man of the waste. Europeans have also learnt to miscallthe Egyptians "Arabs": the difference is as great as between anEnglishman and a Spaniard. Arabs proper divide their race intosundry successive families. "The Arab al Araba" (or al  Aribah, oral Urubiyat) are the autochthones, prehistoric, proto historic andextinct tribes. for instance, a few of the Adites who being atMeccah escaped the destruction of their wicked nation, but mingledwith other classes. The "Arab al Muta'arribah," (Arabised Arabs)are the first advene represented by such noble strains as theKoraysh (Koreish), some still surviving. The "Arab al Musta'aribah"(insititious, naturalized or instituted Arabs, men who claim to beArabs) are Arabs like the Sinaites, the Egyptians and the Maroccansdescended by intermarriage with other races. Hence our"Mosarabians" and the "Marrabais" of Rabelais (not, "a wordcompounded of Maurus and Arabs"). Some genealogists, however, makethe Muta'arribah descendants of Kahtan (possibly the Joktan ofGenesis x., a comparatively modern document, B.C. 700?). and theMusta'aribah those descended from Adnan the origin of Arabgenealogy. And, lastly, are the "Arab al Musta'ajimah," barbarisedArabs, like the present population of Meccah and Al Medinah.Besides these there are other tribes whose origin is still unknown,such as the Mahrah tribes of Hazramaut, the "Akhdam" (serviles) ofOman (Maskat). and the "Ebna" of Al Yaman: Ibn Ishak supposes thelatter to be descended from the Persian soldiers of Anushirwan whoexpelled the Abyssinian invader from Southern Arabia.(Pilgrimage, m., 31, etc.)Arab. "Amir al Muuminin." The title was assumed by theCaliph Omar to obviate the inconvenience of calling himself"Khalifah" (successor) of the Khalifah of the Apostle of Allah(i.e. Abu Bakr). which after a few generations would becomeimpossible. It means "Emir (chief or prince) of the Muumins," menwho hold to the (true Moslem) Faith, the "Iman" (theory,fundamental articles) as opposed to the "Din," ordinance orpractice of the religion. It once became a Wazirial time conferredby Sultan Malikshah (King King  king) on his Nizam al Murk.(Richardson's Dissert. (viii.)This may also mean "according to the seven editions of theKoran " the old revisions and so forth (Sale, Sect. iii. andD'Herbelot "Alcoran.") The schools of the "Mukri," who teach theright pronunciation wherein a mistake might be sinful, are seven,Harnzah, Ibn Katir, Ya'akub, Ibn Amir, Kisai, Asim and Hafs, thelatter being the favourite with the Hanafis and the only one nowgenerally known in Al Islam.Arab. "Sadd"wall, dyke, etc. the "bund" or "band" ofAnglo India. Hence the "Sadd" on the Nile, the banks of grass andfloating islands which "wall" the stream. There are few sights moreappalling than a sandstorm in the desert, the "Zauba'ah" as theArabs call it. Devils, or pillars of sand, vertical and inclined,measuring a thousand feet high, rush over the plain lashing thesand at their base like a sea surging under a furious whirlwind.shearing the grass clean away from the roots, tearing up trees,which are whirled like leaves and sticks in air and sweeping awaytents and houses as if they were bits of paper. At last the columnsjoin at the top and form, perhaps three thousand feet above theearth, a gigantic cloud of yellow sand which obliterates not onlythe horizon but even the mid day sun. These sand spouts are theterror of travellers. In Sind and the Punjab we have the dust storm which for darkness, I have said, beats the blackest Londonfog.Arab. Sar the vendetta, before mentioned, as dreaded inArabia as in Corsica.Arab. "Ghutah," usually a place where irrigation isabundant. It especially applies (in books) to the Damascus plainbecause "it abounds with water and fruit trees." The Ghutah is oneof the four earthly paradises, the others being Basrah (Bassorah),Shiraz and Samarcand. Its peculiarity is the likeness to a seaportthe Desert which rolls up almost to its doors being the sea and itsships being the camels. The first Arab to whom we owe thisadmirable term for the "Companion of Job" is "Tarafah" one of thepoets of the Suspended Poems: he likens (v. v. 3, 4) the camelswhich bore away his beloved to ships sailing from Aduli. But "shipsof the desert" is doubtless a term of the highest antiquity.The exigencies of the "Saj'a," or rhymed prose, disjointthis and many similar pas. sages.The "Ebony" Islands. Scott's "Isle of Ebene," i., 217."Jarjaris" in the Bul. Edit.Arab. "Takbis." Many Easterns can hardly sleep withoutthis kneading of the muscles, this "rubbing" whose hygienicproperties England is now learning.The converse of the breast being broadened, the drooping,"draggle tail" gait compared with the head held high and thechest inflated.This penalty is mentioned in the Koran (chaps. v.) as fitfor those who fight against Allah and his Apostle, but commentatorsare not agreed if the sinners are first to be put to death or tohang on the cross till they die. Pharaoh (chaps. xx.) threatens tocrucify his magicians on palm trees, and is held to be the firstcrucifier.Arab. "'Ajami"foreigner, esp. a Persian: the latter inThe Nights is mostly a villain. I must here remark that thecontemptible condition of Persians in Al Hijaz (which I noted in1852, Pilgrimage, i., 327) has completely changed. They are nolonger, "The slippers of All and hounds of Omar:" they have learnedthe force of union and now, instead of being bullied, they bully.The Calc. Edit. turns into Tailors (Khayyatin) andTorrensdoes not see the misprint.i.e. Axe and sandals.Lit. "Strike his neck."A phrase which will frequently recur. meaning thesituation suggested such words a these.The smiter with the evil eye is called "A'in" and theperson smitten "Ma'im" or "Ma'un."Arab. "Sakiyah," the well known Persian wheel with potsand buckets attached to the tire. It is of many kinds, the boxed,etc., etc., and it is possibly alluded to in the "pitcher broken atthe fountain" (Eccleslastes xii. 6) an accident often occurring tothe modern "Noria." Travellers mostly abuse its "dismal creaking"and "mournful monotony": I have defended the music of thewater wheel in Pilgrimage ii. 198.Arab. "Zikr" lit. remembering, mentioning (i. c. the namesof Allah), here refers to the meetings of religious for devotionalexercises. the "Zikkirs," as they are called, mostly standing orsitting in a circle while they ejaculate the Holy Name. These"rogations" are much affected by Darwayshes, or begging friars,whom Europe politely divides Unto "dancing" and "howling". and, onone occasion, greatly to the scandal of certain Englanderinns towhom I was showing the Ezbekiyah I joined the ring of "howlers."Lane (Mod. Egypt, see index) is profuse upon the subject of "Zikrs"and Zikkits. It must not be supposed that they are uneducated men:the better class, however, prefers more privacy.As they thought he had been there for prayer or penance.Arab. "Ziyarat," a visit to a pious person or place.This is a paternal salute in the East where they areparticular about the part kissed. A witty and not unusually grossPersian book, called the "Al Namah" because all questions beginwith "Al" (the Arab article) contains one "Al Wajib al busidan?"(what best deserves bussing?) and the answer is "Kus i nau pashm,"(a bobadilla with a young bush).A weight of 71 72 English grains in gold. here equivalentto the diner.Compare the tale of The Three Crows in Gammer Grethel,Evening ix.The comparison is peculiarly apposite. the earth seen fromabove appears hollow with a raised rim.A hundred years old."Bahr" in Arab. means sea, river, piece of water. hencethe adjective is needed.The Captain or Master of the ship (not the owner). InAl Yaman the word also means a "barber," in virtue of the root,Rass, a head.The text has "in the character Ruka'i,"," or Rika'i,, thecorrespondence hand.A curved character supposed to be like the basil leaf(rayhan). Richardson calls it "Rohani."I need hardly say that Easterns use a reed, a Calamus(Kalam applied only to the cut reed) for our quills and steelpens.Famous for being inscribed on the Kiswah (cover) ofMohammed's tomb. a large and more formal hand still used forengrossing and for mural inscriptions. Only seventy two varietiesof it are known (Pilgrimage, ii., 82).The copying and transcribing hand which is either Arabi orAjami. A great discovery has been lately made which upsets all ourold ideas of Cufic, etc. Mr. Loytved of Bayrut has found, amongstthe Hauranic inscriptions, one in pure Naskhi, dating A. D. 568, orfifty years before the Hijrah. and it is accepted as authentic bymy learned friend M. Ch. Clermont Ganneau (p. 193, Pal. Explor.Fund. July 1884). In D'Herbelot and Sale's day the Koran wassupposed to have been written in rude characters, like thosesubsequently called "Cufic," invented shortly before Mohammed'sbirth by Muramir ibn Murrah of Anbar in Irak, introduced intoMeccah by Bashar the Kindian, and perfected by Ibn Muklah(Al Wazir, ob. A. H. 328940). We must now change all that. SeeCatalogue of Oriental Caligraphs, etc., by G. P, Badger, London,Whiteley, 1885.Capital and uncial letters. the hand in which the Ka'abahveil is inscribed (Pilgrimage iii. 299, 300).A "Court hand" says Mr. Payne (i. 112): I know nothing ofit. Other hands are: the Ta'alik. hanging or oblique, used forfiner MSS. and having, according to Richardson, "the same analogyto the Naskhi as our Italic has to the Roman." The Nasta' lik (notNaskh Ta'alik) much used in India, is, as the name suggests, amixture of the Naskhi (writing of transactions) and the Ta'alik.The Shikastah (broken hand) everywhere represents our running handand becomes a hard task to the reader. The Kirma is another cursivecharacter, mostly confined to the receipts and disbursements of theTurkish treasury. The Divani, or Court (of Justice) is the officialhand, bold and round. a business character, the lines often risingwith a sweep or curve towards the (left) end. The Jali or polishedhas a variety, the Jali Ta'alik: the Sulsi (known in many books) isadopted for titles of volumes, royal edicts, diplomas and so forth."answering much the same purpose as capitals with us, or theflourished letters in illuminated manuscripts" (Richardson) TheTughrai is that of the Tughra, the Prince's cypher or flourishingsignature in ceremonial writings, and containing some such sentenceas: Let this be executed. There are others e. g. Yakuti andSirenkil known only by name. Finally the Maghribi (Moorish) handdiffers in form and diacritical points from the characters usedfurther east almost as much as German running hand does fromEnglish. It is curious that Richardson omits the Jali (intricateand convoluted) and the divisions of the Sulusi, Sulsi or Sulus(Thuluth) character, the Sulus al Khafif, etc.Arab. "Baghlah". the male (Bagful) is used only for loads.This is everywhere the rule: nothing is more unmanageable than arestive "Macho", and he knows that he can always get you off hisback when so minded. From "Baghlah" is derived the name of thenative craft Anglo Indice a "Buggalow."In Heb. ""Ben Adam" is any man opp. to "Beni ish"(Psalm iv. 3) filii viri, not homines.This posture is terribly trying to European legs. and fewwhite men (unless brought up to it) can squat for any time on theirheels. The ``tailor fashion," with crossed legs, is held to be freeand easy.Arab. "Kata"Pterocles Alchata, the well known sand grouseof the desert. It is very poor white flesh.Arab. "Khubz" which I do not translate "cake" or``bread,'' as thee would suggest the idea of our loaf. The staff oflife in the East is a thin flat circle of dough baked in the ovenor on the griddle, and corresponding with the Scotch "scone," theSpanish tortilla and the Australian "flap jack."Arab. "Harisah," a favourite dish of wheat (or rice)boiled and reduced to a paste with shredded meat, spices andcondiments. The "bangles" is a pretty girl eating with him.These lines are repeated with a difference in Nightcccxxx. They affect Rims cars, out of the way, heavy rhymes: e. g.here Sakarij (plur. of Sakruj, platters, porringers). Tayahij(plur. of Tayhuj, the smaller caccabis partridge). Tabahij (PersianTabahjah, an me et or a stew of meat, onions, eggs, etc.) Ma'arij("in stepped piles" like the pyramids Lane ii 495, renders "on thestairs"). Makarij (plur. of Makraj, a small pot). Damalij (plur. ofdumluj, a bracelet, a bangle). Dayabij (brocades) and Tafarij(openings, enjoyments). In Night cccxxx. we find also Sikabij(plur. of Sikbaj, marinated meat elsewhere explained). Fararij(plur. of farruj, a chicken, vulg. farkh) and Dakakij (plur. of Gr.dakujah,, a small Jar). In the first line we have also (though nota rhyme) Gharanik Gr. , a crane, preserved in Romaic. Theweeping and wailing are caused by the remembrance that all thesedelicacies have been demolished like a Badawi camp.This is the vinum coctum, the boiled wine, still afavourite in Southern Italy and Greece.Eastern topers delight in drinking at dawn: upon thissubject I shall have more to say in other Nights.Arab. "Adab," a crux to translators, meaning anythingbetween good education and good manners. In mod. Turk. "Edibiyyet"(Adabiyat) belles lettres and "Edebi' or "Edib" a litterateur.The Caliph Al Maamun, who was a bad player, used to say,"I have the administration of the world and am equal to it, whereasI am straitened in the ordering of a space of two spans by twospans." The "board" was then "a square field of well dressedleather."The Rabbis (after Matth. xix. 12) count three kinds ofEunuchs. (1) Seris chammahof the sun, i.e. natural, (2) SerisAdammanufactured per homines. and (3) Seris Chammayim of God(i.e.. religious abstainer). Seris (castrated) or Abd (slave) isthe general Hebrew name.The "Lady of Beauty.""Kaf" has been noticed as the mountain which surroundsearth as a ring does the finger:: it is popularly used like our Alpand Alpine. The "circumambient Ocean" (Bahr al muhit) is theHomeric Ocean stream.The pomegranate is probably chosen here because each fruitis supposed to contain one seed from Eden garden. Hence a host ofsuperstitions (Pilgrimage iii., 104) possibly connected with theChaldaic Babylonian god Rimmon or Ramanu. Hence Persephone orIshtar tasted the "rich pomegranate's seed." Lenormant, loc. cit.pp. 166, 182.i.e. for the love of God a favourite Moslem phrase.Arab. "Bab," also meaning a chapter (of magic, of war,etc.), corresponding with the Persian "Dar" as in Sad dar, theHundred Doors. Here, however, it is figurative "I tried a newmode." This scene is in the Mabinogion.I use this Irish term crying for the dead, as Englishwants the word for the prefica, or myrialogist. The practice is notencouraged in Al Islam. and Caliph Abu Bakr said, . "Verily acorpse is sprinkled with boiling water by reason of thelamentations of the living, i.e. punished for not having takenmeasures to prevent their profitless lamentations. But the practiceis from Negroland whence it reached Egypt, and the people havethere developed a curious system in the "weeping song" I have notedthis in "The Lake Regions of Central Africa." In Zoroastrianism(Dabistan, chaps. xcvii.) tears shed for the dead form a river inhell, black and frigid.These lines are hardly translatable. Arab. "Sabr" means"patience" as well as "aloes," hereby lending itself to a host ofpuns and double entendres more or less vile. The aloe, according toBurckhardt, is planted in graveyards as a lesson of patience: it isalso slung, like the dried crocodile, over house doors to preventevil spirits entering: "thus hung without earth and water," saysLane (M.E., chaps. xi.), "it will live for several years and evenblossom. Hence (?) it is called Sabr, which signifies patience. ButSibr as well as Sabr (a root) means "long sufferance." I hold thepractice to be one of the many Inner African superstitions. Thewild Gallas to the present day plant aloes on graves, and supposethat when the plant sprouts the deceased has been admitted to thegardens of Wak, the Creator. (Pilgrimage iii. 350.)Every city in the East has its specific title: this wasgiven to Baghdad either on account of its superior police or simplybecause it was the Capital of the Caliphate. The Tigris was alsocalled the "River of Peace (or Security)."This is very characteristic: the passengers findingthemselves in difficulties at once take command. See in myPilgrimage (I. chaps. xi.) how we beat and otherwise maltreated theCaptain of the "Golden Wire."The fable is probably based on the currents which, as inEastern Africa, will carry a ship fifty miles a day out of hercourse. We first find it in Ptolemy (vii. 2) whose ManiolaiIslands, of India extra Gangem, cause iron nails to fly out ofships, the effect of the Lapis Herculeus (Loadstone). Rabelais (v.c. 37) alludes to it and to the vulgar idea of magnetism beingcounteracted by Skordon (Scordon or garlic). Hence too the Adamant(Loadstone) Mountains of Mandeville (chaps. xxvii.) and the"Magnetic Rock" in Mr Puttock's clever "Peter Wilkins." I presumethat the myth also arose from seeing craft built, as on the EastAfrican Coast, without iron nails. We shall meet with the legendagain. The word Jabal ("Jebel" in Egypt) often occurs in thesepages. The Arabs apply it to any rising ground or heap of rocks. soit is not always our mountain. It has found its way to Europee. g. Gibraltar and Monte Gibello (or Mongibel in poetry) "Mt. Ethnethat men clepen Mounte Gybelle." Other special senses of Jabalwill occur.As we learn from the Nubian Geographer the Arabs in earlyages explored the Fortunate Islands (Jazirat al KhalidatEternalIsles), or Canaries, on one of which were reported a horse andhorseman in bronze with his spear pointing west. Ibn al Ward) notestwo images of hard stone, each an hundred cubits high, and upon thetop of each a figure of copper pointing with its hand backwards, asthough it would say: Return for there is nothing behind me!" Butthis legend attaches to older doings. The 23rd Tobba (who succeededBilkis), Malik bin Sharhabil, (or Sharabil or Sharahil) surnamedNashir al Ni'amscatterer of blessings, lost an army in attemptingthe Western sands and set up a statue of copper upon whose breastwas inscribed in antique characters: There is no access behind me,Nothing beyond,(Saith) The Son of Sharabil.i.e. I exclaimed "Bismillah!"The lesser ablution of hands, face and feet. a kind of"washing the points." More in Night ccccxl.Arab. "Ruka'tayn". the number of these bows which arefollowed by the prostrations distinguishes the five dailyprayers.The "Beth Kol" of the Hebrews. also called by the Moslems"Hatif". for which ask the Spiritualists. It is the Hindu "voicedivine" or "voice from heaven."These formulae are technically called Tasmiyah, Tahlil(before noted) and Takbir: i.e. "testifying" is Tashhid.Arab. "Samn," (Pers. "Raughan" Hind. "Ghi") the "singlesauce" of the East. fresh butter set upon the fire, skimmed andkept (for a century if required) in leather bottles and demijohns.Then it becomes a hard black mass, considered a panacea for woundsand diseases. It is very "filling": you say jocosely to an Easternthreatened with a sudden inroad of guests, "Go, swamp thy rice withRaughan." I once tried training, like a Hindu Pahlawan or athlete,on Gur (raw sugar), milk and Ghi. and the result was being blindedby bile before the week ended.These handsome youths are always described in the terms weshould apply to women.The Bull Edit. (i. 43) reads otherwise: I found a gardenand a second and a third and so on till they numbered thirty andnine. and, in each garden, I saw what praise will not express, oftrees and rills and fruits and treasures. At the end of the last Isighted a door and said to myself, "What may be in this place?.needs must I open it and look in!" I did so accordingly and saw acourser ready saddled and bridled and picketed. so I loosed andmounted him, and he flew with me like a bird till he set me down ona terrace roof. and, having landed me, he struck me a whisk withhis tail and put out mine eye and fled from me. Thereupon Idescended from the roof and found ten youths all blind of one eyewho, when they saw me exclaimed, "No welcome to thee, and no goodcheer!" I asked them, "Do ye admit me to your home and society?"and they answered, "No, by Allah' thou shalt not live amongst us."So I went forth with weeping eyes and grieving heart, but Allah hadwritten my safety on the Guarded Tablet so I reached Baghdad insafety, etc. This is a fair specimen of how the work has beencurtailed in that issue.Arabs date pregnancy from the stopping of the menses, uponwhich the foetus is supposed to feed. Kalilah wa Dimnah says, "Thechild's navel adheres to that of his mother and thereby he sucks"(i. 263).This is contrary to the commands of Al Islam, Mohammedexpressly said "The Astrologers are liars, by the Lord of theKa'abah!". and his saying is known to almost all Moslems, letteredor unlettered. Yet, the further we go East (Indiawards) the more wefind these practices held in honour. Turning westwards we have:Iuridicis, Erebo, Fisco, fas vivere rapto:Militibus, Medicis, Tortori occidere ludo est.Mentiri Astronomis, Pictoribus atque Poetis.He does not perform the Wuzu or lesser ablution because heneglects his dawn prayers.For this game see Lane (M. E. Chapt. xvii.) It is usuallyplayed on a checked cloth not on a board like our draughts. andEasterns are fond of eating, drinking and smoking between and evenduring the games. Torrens (p. 142) translates "I made up somedessert," confounding "Mankalah" with "Nukl" (dried fruit,quatre mendiants).Quoted from Mohammed whose saying has been given.We should say "the night of the thirty ninth."The bath first taken after sickness.Arab. "Dikak" used by way of soap or rather to soften theskin: the meal is usually of lupins, "Adas""Revalenta Arabica,"which costs a penny in Egypt and half a crown in England.Arab. "Sukkar nabat." During my day (1842 49) we had noother sugar in the Bombay Presidency.This is one of the myriad Arab instances that the decreesof "Anagke," Fate, Destiny, Weird, are inevitable. The situation ishighly dramatic. and indeed The Nights, as will appear in theTerminal Essay, have already suggested a national drama.Having lately been moved by Ajib.Mr. Payne (i. 131) omits these lines which appear out ofplace. but this mode of inappropriate quotation is a characteristicof Eastern tales.Anglice "him."This march of the tribe is a lieu commun of Arab versee.g. the poet Labid's noble elegy on the "Deserted Camp." We shallfind scores of instances in The Nights.I have heard of such sands in the Desert east of Damascuswhich can be crossed only on boards or camel furniture. and thesame is reported of the infamous Region "Al Ahklaf" ("UnexploredSyria").Hence the Arab. saying "The bark of a dog and not thegleam of a fire." the tired traveller knows from the former thatthe camp is near, whereas the latter shows from great distances.Dark blue is the colour of mourning in Egypt as it was ofthe Roman Republic. The Persians hold that this tint was introducedby Kay Kawus (B. C. 600) when mourning for his son Siyawush. It wascontinued till the death of Husayn on the 10th of Muharram (thefirst month, then representing the vernal equinox) when it waschanged for black. As a rule Moslems do not adopt this symbol ofsorrow (called "Hidad") looking upon the practice as somewhatidolatrous and foreign to Arab manners. In Egypt and especially onthe Upper Nile women dye their hands with indigo and stair. theirfaces black or blacker.The older Roc, of which more in the Tale of Sindbad.Meanwhile the reader curious about the Persian Simurgh (thirtybird) will consult the Dabistan, i., 55,191 and iii., 237, andRichardson's Diss. p. xlviii. For the Anka (Enka or Unka longnecked bird) see Dab. iii., 249 and for the Huma (bird of Paradise)Richardson lxix. We still lack details concerning the Ben or Bennu(nycticorax) of Egypt which with the Article pi gave rise to theGreek "phoenix."Probably the Haledj of Forskal (p. xcvi. Flor. Egypt.Arab.), "lignum tenax, durum, obscuri generic." The Bres. Edit. has"akul"teak wood, vulg. "Saj."The knocker ring is an invention well known to theRomans.Arab. "Sadr". the place of honour. hence the "SudderAdawlut" (Supreme Court) in the Anglo Indian jargon.Arab. "Ahlan wa sahlan wa marhaba," the words stillpopularly addressed to a guest.This may mean "liquid black eyes". but also, as I havenoticed, that the lashes were long and thick enough to make theeyelids appear as if Kohl powder had been applied to the innerrims.A slight parting between the two front incisors, the upperonly, is considered a beauty by Arabs. why it as hard to say exceptfor the racial love of variety. "Sugar" (Thug) in the text means,primarily, the opening of the mouth, the gape: hence the frontteeth.i.e. makes me taste the bitterness of death, "bursting thegall bladder" (Mararah) being our "breaking the heart."Almost needless to say that forbidden doors and rooms forma lieu commun in Fairie: they are found in the Hindu Katha SaritSagara and became familiar to our childhood by "Bluebeard."Lit. "apply Kohl to my eyes," even as Jezebel "painted herface," in Heb. put her eyes in painting (2 Kings ix. 30).Arab. "Al Barkuk," whence our older "Apricock."Classically it is "Burkuk" and Pers. for Arab. "Mishrnish," and italso denotes a small plum or damson. In Syria the side next thesun" shows a glowing red flush.Arab. "Hazar" (in Persian, a thousand) a kind ofmocking bird.Some Edits. make the doors number a hundred, but thePrincesses were forty and these coincidences, which seem to havesignificance and have none save for Arab symmetromania, arecommon in Arab stories.Arab. "Majur": hence possibly our "mazer," which ispopularly derived from Masarn, a maple.A compound scent of ambergris, musk and aloes.The ends of the bridle reins forming the whip.The flying horse is Pegasus which is a Greek travesty ofan Egyptian myth developed India.The Bres. Edit. wrongly says "the seventh."Arab. "Sharmutah" (plur. Sharamit) from the root Sharmat,to shred, a favourite Egyptian word also applied in vulgar speechto a strumpet, a punk, a piece. It is also the popular term forstrips of jerked or boucaned meat hung up m the sun to dry, andclassically called "Kadid."Arab. "Izar," the man's waistcloth opposed to the Rida orshoulder cloth, is also the sheet of white calico worn by thepoorer Egyptian women out of doors and covering head and hands. SeeLane (M. E., chaps. i.). The rich prefer a "Habarah" of black silk,and the poor, when they have nothing else, use a bed sheet.i.e. "My clears."Arab. "La tawakhizna:" lit. "do not chastise (or blame)us." the pop. expression for, "excuse (or pardon) us."Arab. "Maskhut," mostly applied to change of shape as manenchanted to monkey, and in vulgar parlance applied to a statue (ofstone, etc.). The list of metamorphoses in Al Islam is longer thanthat known to Ovid. Those who have seen Petra, the Greek town ofthe Hauran and the Roman ruins in Northern Africa will readilydetect the bests upon which these stories are built. I shall returnto this subject in The City of Iram (Night cclxxvi.) and The Cityof Brass (dlxvii.).A picturesque phrase enough to express a deserted site, aspectacle familiar to the Nomades and always abounding in pathos tothe citizens.The olden "Harem" (or gyneceum, Pers. Zenanah, Serraglio):Harim is also used by synecdoche for the inmates. especially thewife.The pearl is supposed in the East to lose 1 per ann. ofits splendour and value.Arab. "Fass," properly the bezel of a ring. also a gem cuten cabochon and generally the contenant for the contenu.Arab. "Mihrab" the arch headed niche in the Mosque wallfacing Meccah wards. Here, with his back to the people and frontingthe Ka'abah or Square House of Meccah (hence called the "Kiblah"direction of prayer), stations himself the Imam, artistes orfugleman, lit. "one who stands before others." and his bows andprostrations give the time to the congregation. I have derived theMihrab from the niche in which the Egyptian God was shrined: theJews ignored it, but the Christians preserved it for their statuesand altars. Maundrell suggests that the empty niche denotes aninvisible God. As the niche (symbol of Venus) and the minaret(symbol of Priapus) date only from the days of the tenth Caliph,Al Walid (A.H. 86 96105 115), the Hindus charge the Moslems withhaving borrowed the two from their favourite idols The Linga Yonior Cunnus phallus (Pilgrimage ii. 140), and plainly call the Mihraba Bhaga Cunnus (Dabistan ii. 152). The Guebres further term Meccah"Mah gah," locus Lune, and Al Medinah, "Mahdinah," Moon ofreligion. See Dabistan i., 49, etc.Arab "Kursi," a stool of palm fronds, etc., X shaped (seeLane's illustration, Nights i., 197), before which the reader sits.Good Moslems will not hold the Holy Volume below the waist nor openit except when ceremonially pure. Englishmen in the East shouldremember this, for to neglect the "Adab al Kuran" (respect due toHoly Writ) gives great scandal.Mr. Payne (i. 148) quotes the German Zuckerpuppchen.The Persian poets have a thousand conceits in praise ofthe "mole," (Khal or Shamah) for which Hafiz offered "Samarkand andBokhara" (they not being his, as his friends remarked). Another"topic" is the flight of arrows shot by eyelashes.Arab. "Suha" a star in the Great Bear introduced only tobalance "wushat" spies, enviers, enemies, whose "evil eye" itwill ward off.In Arab tales beauty is always "soft sided," and a smoothskin is valued in proportion to its rarity.The myrtle is the young hair upon the side faceIn other copies of these verses the fourth couplet swears"by the scorpions of his brow" i.e. the accroche ceurs, thebeau catchers, bell ropes or aggravators," as the B.P. calls them.In couplet eight the poet alludes to his love's "Unsur," or elementhis nature made up of the four classicals, and in the last couplethe makes the nail paring refer to the moon not the sun.This is regular formula when speaking of Guebres.Arab. "Faraiz". the orders expressly given in the Koranwhich the reader will remember, is Uncreate and Eternal. In India"Farz" is applied to injunctions thrice repeated. and "Wajib" tothose given twice over. Elsewhere scanty difference is made betweenthem.Arab. "Kufr" rejecting the True Religion, i.e. Al Islam,such rejection being "Tughyan" or rebellion against the Lord. The"terrible sound" is taken from the legend of the prophet Salih andthe proto historic tribe of Thamud which for its impiety was struckdead by an earthquake and a noise from heaven. The latter,according to some commentators, was the voice of the ArchangelGabriel crying "Die all of you" (Koran, chapts. vii., xviii.,etc.). We shall hear more of it in the "City of many columnedIram." According to some, Salih, a mysterious Badawi prophet, isburied in the Wady al Shaykh of the so called Sinaitic Peninsula.Yet they kept the semblance of man, showing that the ideaarose from the basaltic statues found in Hauranic ruins. Mohammedin his various marches to Syria must have seen remnants of Greekand Roman settlements. and as has been noticed "Sesostris"Arab. "Shuhada". highly respected by Moslems as by otherreligionists. although their principal if not only merit seems asa rule to have been intense obstinacy and devotion to one idea forwhich they were ready to sacrifice even life. The Martyrs categoryis extensive including those killed by falling walls. victims tothe plague, pleurisy and pregnancy, travellers drowned or otherwiselost when journeying honestly, and chaste lovers who die of "brokenhearts" i.e. impaired digestion. Their souls are at once stowedaway in the crops of green birds where they remain tillResurrection Day, "eating of the fruits and drinking of the streamsof Paradise," a place however, whose topography is whollyuncertain. Thus the young Prince was rewarded with a manner ofanti Purgatory, a preparatory heaven.Arab. "Su'uban:" the Badawin give the name to a variety ofserpents all held to be venomous. but m tales the word, like"Tannin," expresses our "dragon" or "cockatrice."She was ashamed to see the lady doing servile duty byrubbing her feet. This massage, which B. de la Brocquiere describesin 1452 as "kneading and pinching," has already been noticed. TheFrench term is apparently derived from the Arab. "Mas h."Alluding to the Most High Name, the hundredth name of God,the Heb. Shem hamphorash, unknown save to a favoured few who byusing it perform all manner of miracles.i e. the Mediterranean and the Indian Ocean.i.e. Settled by the Koran.The uglier the old woman the better procuress she issupposed to make. See the Santa Verdiana in Boccaccio v., 10. InArab. "Ajuz" (old woman) is highly insulting and if addressed to anEgyptian, whatever be her age she will turn fiercely and resent it.The polite term is Shaybah (Pilgrimage hi., 200).The four ages of woman, considered after Demosthenes inher three fold character, prostitute for pleasure, concubine forservice and wife for breeding.Arab. "Jila" (the Hindostani Julwa) the displaying ofthe bride before the bridegroom for the first time, in differentdresses, to the number of seven which are often borrowed for theoccasion. The happy man must pay a fee called "the tax offace unveiling" before he can see her features. Amongst SyrianChristians he sometimes tries to lift the veil by a sharp movementof the sword which is parried by the women present, and the bladeremains entangled in the cloth. At last he succeeds, the bridesinks to the ground covering her face with her hands and the robesof her friends: presently she is raised up, her veil is readjustedand her face is left bare.Arab. "Isha" the first watch of the night, twilight,supper time, supper. Moslems have borrowed the four watches of theRomans from 6 (a.m. or p.m.) to 6, and ignore the three originalwatches of the Jews, even, midnight and cockcrow (Sam. ii. 19,Judges vii. 19, and Exodus xiv. 24).A popular Arab hyperbole.Arab. "Shakaik al Nu'uman," lit. the fissures of Nu'uman,the beautiful anemone, which a tyrannical King of Hirah, Nu'umanAl Munzir, a contemporary of Mohammed, attempted to monopolize.Arab. "Andam"here the gum called dragon's blood. in otherplaces the dye wood known as brazil.I need hardly say that in the East, where bells areunused, clapping the hands summons the servants. In India men cry"Quy hye" (Koi hai?) and in Brazil whistle "Pst!" after the fashionof Spain and Portugal.The moles are here compared with pearls. a simile by nomeans common or appropriate.A parody on the testification of Allah's Unity.Arab. "Simat" (prop. "Sumat"). the "dinner table,"composed of a round wooden stool supporting a large metal tray, thetwo being called "Sufrah" (or "Simat"): thus "Sufrah hazirah!"means dinner is on the table. After the meal they are at onceremoved.In the text "Dastur," the Persian word before noticed."Izn" would be the proper Arabic equivalent.In the Moslem East a young woman, single or married, isnot allowed to appear alone in the streets. and the police have aright to arrest delinquents. As a preventive of intrigues theprecaution is excellent. During the Crimean war hundreds ofofficers, English, French and Italian, became familiar withConstantinople. and not a few flattered themselves on their successwith Turkish women. I do not believe that a single bona fide caseoccurred: the "conquests" were all Greeks, Wallachians, Armeniansor Jewesses.Arab. "Azim": translators do not seem to know that thisword in The Nights often bears its Egyptian and slang sense,somewhat equivalent to our "deuced" or "mighty" or "awfullyfine."This is a very serious thing amongst Moslems andscrupulous men often make great sacrifices to avoid taking anoath.We should say "into the noose."The man had fallen in love with her and determined to markher so that she might be his.Arab. "Dajlah," in which we find the Heb. Hid dekel.Such an execution would be contrary to Moslem law: butpeople would look leniently upon the peccadillo of beheading orsacking a faithless wife. Moreover the youth was of the blood royaland A quoi bon etre prince? as was said by a boy of viceroyalfamily in Egypt to his tutor who reproached him for unnecessarilyshooting down a poor old man.Arab. "Shirk," partnership, evening or associating godswith God. polytheism: especially levelled at the Hindu triadism,Guebre dualism and Christian Trinitarianism.Arab. "Shatm" abuse, generally couched in foulestlanguage with especial reference to the privy parts of femalerelatives.When a woman is bastinadoed in the East they leave hersome portion of dress and pour over her sundry buckets of water fora delicate consideration. When the hands are beaten they are passedthrough holes in the curtain separating the sufferer from mankind,and made fast to a "falakah" or pole.Arab. "Khalifah," Caliph. The word is also used for thesuccessor of a Santon or holy man.Arab. "Sar," here the Koranic word for carrying out thevenerable and undying lex talionis the original basis of allcriminal jurisprudence. Its main fault is that justice repeats theoffence.Both these sons of Harun became Caliphs, as we shall seein The Nights."Dog" and "hog" are still highly popular terms of abuse.The Rabbis will not defile their lips with "pig." but say "Dabharakhir""another thing."The "hero eponymus" of the Abbaside dynasty, Abbas havingbeen the brother of Abdullah the father of Mohammed. He is a famouspersonage in AI Islam (D'Herbelot).Europe translates the word "Barmecides. It is Persian frombar (up) and makidan (to suck). The vulgar legend is that Ja'afar,the first of the name, appeared before the Caliph Abd al Malik witha ring poisoned for his own need. and that the Caliph, warned of itby the clapping of two stones which he wore ad hoc, charged thevisitor with intention to murder him. He excused himself and in hisspeech occurred the Persian word "Barmakam," which may mean "Ishall sup it up," or "I am a Barmak," that is, a high priest amongthe Guebres. See D'Herbelot s.v.Arab."Zulm," the deadliest of monarch's sins. One of thesayings of Mohammed, popularly quoted, is, "Kingdom endureth withKufr or infidelity (i. e. without accepting AI Islam) but endurethnot with Zulm or injustice." Hence the good Moslem will notcomplain of the rule of Kafirs or Unbelievers, like the English, solong as they rule him righteously and according to his own law.)All this aggravates his crime: had she been a widow shewould not have had upon him "the claims of maidenhead," the premiodella verginita of Boccaccio, x. 10.It is supposed that slaves cannot help telling these fatallies. Arab story books are full of ancient and modern instances andsome have become "Joe Millers." Moreover it is held unworthy of afree born man to take over notice of these servile villanies. hencethe scoundrel in the story escapes unpunished. I have alreadynoticed the predilection of debauched women for these "skunks ofthe human race." and the young man in the text evidently suspectedthat his wife had passed herself this "little caprice." The excusewhich the Caliph would find for him is the pundonor shown inkilling one he loved so fondly.The Arab equivalent of our pitcher and well.i.e. Where the dress sits loosely about the bust.He had trusted in Allah and his trust was justified.Arab. "Khila'ah" prop. What a man strips from hisperson: gen. An honorary gift. It is something more than the"robe of honour" of our chivalrous romances, as it includes ahorse, a sword (often gold hilted), a black turban (amongst theAbbasides) embroidered with gold, a violet mantle, a waist shawland a gold neck chain and shoe buckles.Arab. "Iza," i.e. the visits of condolence and so forthwhich are long and terribly wearisome in the Moslem East.Arab. "Mahr," the money settled by the man beforemarriage on the woman and without which the contract is notvalid. Usually half of it is paid down on the marriage day andthe other half when the husband dies or divorces his wife. But ifshe take a divorce she forfeits her right to it, and obscenefellows, especially Persians, often compel her to demand divorceby unnatural and preposterous use of her person.Bismillah here means "Thou art welcome to it."Arab. "Bassak," half Pers. (bas enough) and akthou. for thee. "Bas" sounds like our "buss" (to kiss) and thereare sundry good old Anglo Indian jokes of feminine mistakes onthe subject.This saving clause makes the threat worse. The scenebetween the two brothers is written with characteristic Arabhumour. and it is true to nature. In England we have heard of aman who separated from his wife because he wished to dine at sixand she preferred half past six.Arab. "Misr." (vulg. Masr). The word, which comes of avery ancient house, was applied to the present capital about thetime of its conquest by the Osmanli Turks A.H. 923 1517.The Arab. "Jizah," skirt, edge. the modern village isthe site of an ancient Egyptian city, as the "Ghizah inscription"proves (Brugsch, History of Egypt, ii. 415)Arab. "Watan" literally meaning "birth place" but alsoused for "patria, native country". thus "Hubb al Watan"patriotism. The Turks pronounce it "Vatan," which the French haveturned it into Va t'en!Arab. "Zarzariyah" the colour of a stare or starling(Zurzur).Now a Railway Station on the Alexandria Cairo line.Even as late as 1852, when I first saw Cairo, the citywas girt by waste lands and the climate was excellent. Nowcultivation comes up to the house walls. while the MahmudiyahCanal, the planting the streets with avenues and over wateringhave seriously injured it. those who want the air of former Cairomust go to Thebes. Gout, rheumatism and hydrophobia (beforeunknown) have become common of late years.This is the popular pronunciation: Yakut calls it"Bilbis."An outlying village on the "Long Desert," between Cairoand Palestine.Arab. "Al Kuds" holiness. There are few cities whichin our day have less claim to this title than Jerusalem. and,curious to say, the "Holy Land" shows Jews, Christians andMoslems all in their worst form. The only religion (if it can becalled one) which produces men in Syria is the Druse. "Heiligen landes Juden" are proverbial and nothing can be meaner than theChristians while the Moslems are famed for treachery.Arab. "Shamm al hawa." In vulgar parlance to "smell theair" is to take a walk, especially out of town. There is apeculiar Egyptian festival called "Shamm al Nasim" (smelling theZephyr) which begins on Easter Monday (O.S.), thus correspondingwith the Persian Nau roz, vernal equinox and introducing thefifty days of "Khammasin" or "Mirisi" (hot desert winds). Onawakening, the people smell and bathe their temples with vinegarin which an onion has been soaked and break their fast with a"fisikh" or dried "buri" mullet from Lake Menzalah: the lateHekekiyan Bey had the fish heads counted in one public garden andfound 70,000. The rest of the day is spent out of doors"Gypsying," and families greatly enjoy themselves on theseoccasions. For a longer description, see a paper by my excellentfriend Yacoub Artin Pasha, in the Bulletin de l'InstitutEgyptien, 2nd series, No. 4, Cairo, 1884. I have noticed theMirisi (south wester) and other winds in the Land of Midian, i.,23.So in the days of the "Mameluke Beys" in Egypt a man ofrank would not cross the street on foot.Arab. Basrah. The city is now in decay and not toflourish again till the advent of the Euphrates Valley R.R., is amodern place, founded in A.H. 15, by the Caliph Omar upon theAylah, a feeder of the Tigris. Here, according to Al Hariri, the"whales and the lizards meet," and, as the tide affects theriver,Its stream shows prodigy, ebbing and flowing.In its far famed market place, Al Marbad, poems used to berecited. and the city was famous for its mosques and Saint shrines, fair women and school of Grammar which rivalled that ofKufah. But already in Al Hariri's day (nat. A.H. 446 A.D. 1030)Baghdad had drawn off much of its population.This fumigation (Bukhur) is still used. A little incenseor perfumed wood is burnt upon an open censor (Mibkharah) ofearthenware or metal, and passed round, each guest holding it fora few moments under his beard. In the Somali County, the veryhome of incense, both sexes fumigate the whole person aftercarnal intercourse. Lane (Mod. Egypt, chapt. viii) gives anillustration of the Mibkharah).The reader of The Nights will remark that the merchantis often a merchant prince, consorting and mating with thehighest dignitaries. Even amongst the Romans, a race of soldiers,statesmen and lawyers, "mercatura" on a large scale was "not tobe vituperated." In Boccacio (x. 19) they are netti e delicatiuomini. England is perhaps the only country which has made herfortune by trade, and much of it illicit trade, like that inslaves which built Liverpool and Bristol, and which yet disdainsor affects to disdain the trader. But the unworthy prejudice isdisappearing with the last generation, and men who formerly wouldhave half starved as curates and ensigns, barristers and carabinsare now only too glad to become merchants.These lines in the Calc. And Bul. Edits. Have alreadyoccurred (Night vii.) but such carelessness is characteristicdespite the proverb, "In repetition is no fruition." I quoteTorrens (p. 60) by way of variety. As regards the anemone (herecalled a tulip) being named "Shakik" fissure, I wouldconjecture that it derives from the flower often forming longlines of red like stripes of blood in the landscape. Travellersin Syria always observe this.Such an address to a royalty (Eastern) even in thepresent day, would be a passport to future favours.In England the man marries and the woman is married:there is no such distinction in Arabia."Sultan" (and its corruption "Soldan") etymologicallymeans lord, victorious, ruler, ruling over. In Arabia it is a notuncommon proper name. and as a title it is taken by a host ofpetty kinglets. The Abbaside Caliphs (as Al Wasik who has beennoticed) formally created these Sultans as their regents. Al Ta'ibi'llah (regn. A.H. 363 974), invested the famous Sabuktaginwith the office. and as Alexander Sikander was wont to do,fashioned for him two flags, one of silver, after the fashion ofnobles, and the other of gold, as Viceroy designate. Sabuktagin'sson, the famous Mahmud of the Ghaznavite dynasty in A.H. 3931002, was the first to adopt "Sultan" as an independent titlesome two hundred years after the death of Harun al Rashid. In oldwriters we have the Soldan of Egypt, the Soudan of Persia, andthe Sowdan of Babylon. three modifications of one word.i.e. he was a "Hafiz," one who commits to memory thewhole of the Koran. It is a serious task and must be begun early.I learnt by rote the last "Juzw" (or thirtieth part) and foundthat quite enough. This is the vulgar use of "Hafiz": technicallyand theologically it means the third order of Traditionists (thetotal being five) who know by heart 300,000 traditions of theProphet with their ascriptions. A curious "spiritualist" bookcalls itself "Hafed, Prince of Persia," proving by the very titlethat the Spirits are equally ignorant of Arabic and Persian.Here again the Cairo Edit. repeats the six coupletsalready given in Night xvii. I take them from Torrens (p. 163).This naive admiration of beauty in either sexcharacterised our chivalrous times. Now it is mostly confined to"professional beauties" or what is conventionally called the"fair sex". as if there could be any comparison between thebeauty of man and the beauty of woman, the Apollo Belvidere withthe Venus de Medici.Arab. "Shash" (in Pers. urine) a light turband generallyof muslin.This is a lieu commun of Eastern worldly wisdom. Quitetrue! Very unadvisable to dive below the surface of one'sacquaintances, but such intimacy is like marriage of whichJohnson said, "Without it there is no pleasure in life."The lines are attributed to the famous Al Mutanabbithe claimant to "Prophecy," of whom I have given a few details inmy Pilgrimage iii. 60, 62. He led the life of a true poet,somewhat Chauvinistic withal. and, rather than run away, waskilled in A.H. 354 965.Arab. "Nabiz" wine of raisins or dates. any fermentedliquor. from a root to "press out" in Syriac, like the word"Talmiz" (or Tilmiz says the Kashf al Ghurrah) a pupil, student.Date wine (ferment from the fruit, not the Tadi, or juice of thestem, our "toddy") is called Fazikh. Hence the Masjid al Fazikhat Al Medinah where the Ansar or Auxiliaries of that city weresitting cup in hand when they heard of the revelation forbiddinginebriants and poured the liquor upon the ground (Pilgrimage ii.322).Arab. "Huda" direction (to the right way), salvation,a word occurring in the Opening Chapter of the Koran. Hence to aKafir who offers the Salam salutation many Moslems reply "Allah yahdik" Allah direct thee! (i.e. make thee a Moslem), insteadof Allah yusallimak Allah lead thee to salvation. It is theroot word of the Mahdi and Mohdi.These lines have already occurred in The FirstKalandar's Story (Night xi.) I quote by way of change and withpermission Mr. Payne's version (i. 93).Arab. "Farajiyah," a long sleeved robe worn by thelearned (Lane, M.E., chapt. i.).Arab. "Sarraf" (vulg. Sayrafi), whence the Anglo Indian"Shroff," a familiar corruption.Arab. "Yahudi" which is less polite than "Banu Israil"Children of Israel. So in Christendom "Israelite" when in favourand "Jew" (with an adjective or a participle) when nothing iswanted of him.Also called "Ghilman" the beautiful youths appointedto serve the True Believers in Paradise. The Koran says (chapt.lvi. 9 etc.) "Youths, which shall continue in their bloom forever, shall go round about to attend them, with goblets, andbeakers, and a cup of flowing wine," etc. Mohammed was an Arab(not a Persian, a born pederast) and he was too fond of women tobe charged with love of boys: even Tristam Shandy (vol. vii.chapt. 7. "No, quoth a third. the gentleman has been committing  ") knew that the two tastes are incompatibles. But this andother passages in the Koran have given the Chevaliers de laPallie a hint that the use of boys, like that of wine, hereforbidden, will be permitted in Paradise.Which, by the by, is the age of an oldish old maid inEgypt. I much doubt puberty being there earlier than in Englandwhere our grandmothers married at fourteen. But Orientals areaware that the period of especial feminine devilry is between thefirst menstruation and twenty when, according to some, every girlis a "possible murderess." So they wisely marry her and get ridof what is called the "lump of grief," the "domestic calamity" adaughter. Amongst them we never hear of the abominable egotismand cruelty of the English mother, who disappoints her daughter'swomanly cravings in order to keep her at home for her owncomfort. and an "old maid" in the house, especially a stout,plump old maid, is considered not "respectable." The ancientvirgin is known by being lean and scraggy. and perhaps thisdiagnosis is correct.This prognostication of destiny by the stars and a hostof follies that end in  mancy is an intricate and extensivesubject. Those who would study it are referred to chapt. xiv. ofthe "Qanoon e Islam, or the Customs of the Mussulmans of India.etc., etc., by Jaffur Shurreeff and translated by G. A. Herklots,M. D. of Madras." This excellent work first appeared in 1832(Allen and Co., London) and thus it showed the way to Lane's"Modern Egyptians" (1833 35). The name was unfortunate as"Kuzzilbash" (which rhymed to guzzle and hash), and kept the bookback till a second edition appeared in 1863 (Madras: J.Higginbotham).Arab. "Barid," lit. cold: metaph. vain, foolish,insipid.Not to "spite thee" but "in spite of thee." The phraseis still used by high and low.Arab. "Ahdab," the common hunchback. in classicallanguage the Gobbo in the text would be termed "Ak'as" from"Ka'as," one with protruding back and breast. sometimes used forhollow back and protruding breast.This is the custom with such gentry, who, when they seea likely man sitting, are allowed by custom to ride astraddleupon his knees with most suggestive movements, till he buys themoff. These Ghawazi are mostly Gypsies who pretend to be Moslems.and they have been confused with the Almahs or Moslem dancing girls proper (Awalim, plur. of Alimah, a learned feminine) by ahost of travellers. They call themselves Baramikah or Barmecidesonly to affect Persian origin. Under native rule they wereperpetually being banished from and returning to Cairo(Pilgrimage i., 202). Lane (M.E., chapts. xviii. and xix.)discusses the subject, and would derive Al'mah, often sopronounced, from Heb. Almah, girl, virgin, singing girl, hence hewould translate Al Alamoth shir (Psalm xlvi.) and Nebalim al alamoth (I. Chron., xv. 20) by a "song for singing girls" and"harps for singing girls." He quotes also St. Jerome as authoritythat Alma in Punic (Phoenician) signified a virgin, not a commonarticle, I may observe, amongst singing girls. I shall notice ina future page Burckhardt's description of the Ghawazi, p. 173,"Arabic Proverbs." etc., etc. Second Edition. London: Quaritch,1875.I need hardly describe the tarbush, a corruption of thePer. "Sar push" (headcover) also called "Fez" from its old home.and "tarbrush" by the travelling Briton. In old days it was acalotte worn under the turban. and it was protected by scalp perspiration by an "Arakiyah" (Pers. Arak chin) a white skull cap. Now it is worn without either and as a head dress nothingcan be worse (Pilgrimage ii. 275).Arab. "Tar.": the custom still prevails. Lane (M.E.,chapt. xviii.) describes and figures this hoop drum.The couch on which she sits while being displayed. It isher throne, for she is the Queen of the occasion, with all theMajesty of Virginity.This is a solemn "chaff." such liberties being permittedat weddings and festive occasions.The pre Islamitic dynasty of Al Yaman in Arabia Felix, aregion formerly famed for wealth and luxury. Hence the mention ofYamani work. The caravans from Sana'a, the capital, used to carrypatterns of vases to be made in China and bring back theporcelains at the end of the third year: these are the Arabicinscriptions which have puzzled so many collectors. The Tobba, orSuccessors, were the old Himyarite Kings, a dynastic name likePharaoh, Kisra (Persia), Negush (Abyssinia), Khakan or Khan(Tartary), etc., who claimed to have extended their conquests toSamarcand and made war on China. Any history of Arabia (asCrichton I., chapt. iv.) may be consulted for their names andannals. I have been told by Arabs that "Tobba" (or Tubba) isstill used in the old Himvarland the Great or the Chief.Lane and Payne (as well as the Bres. Edit.) both renderthe word "to kiss her," but this would be clean contrary toMoslem usage.i.e. he was full of rage which he concealed.The Hindus (as the Katha shows) compare this swimminggait with an elephant's roll.Arab. "Fitnah," a word almost as troublesome as "Adab."Primarily, revolt, seduction, mischief: then a beautiful girl (orboy), and lastly a certain aphrodisiac perfume extracted frommimosa flowers (Pilgrimage i., 118).Lit. burst the "gall bladder:" In this and in the"liver" allusions I dare not be baldly literal.Arab. "Usfur" the seeds of Carthamus tinctoriusSafflower (Forskal, Flora, etc. lv.). The seeds are crushed foroil and the flowers, which must be gathered by virgins or thecolour will fail, are extensively used for dying in SouthernArabia and Eastern Africa.On such occasions Miss Modesty shuts her eye and looksas if about to faint.After either evacuation the Moslem is bound to wash orsand the part. first however he should apply three pebbles, orpotsherds or clods of earth. Hence the allusion in the Koran(chapt. ix), "men who love to be purified." When the Prophet wasquestioning the men of Kuba, where he founded a mosque(Pilgrimage ii., 215), he asked them about their legal ablutions,especially after evacuation. and they told him that they usedthree stones before washing. Moslems and Hindus (who prefer watermixed with earth) abhor the unclean and unhealthy use of paperwithout ablution. and the people of India call European draught houses, by way of opprobrium, "Kaghaz khanah" paper closets.Most old Anglo Indians, however, learn to use water."Miao" or "Mau" is the generic name of the cat in theEgyptian of the hieroglyphs.Arab. "Ya Mah'um" addressed to an evil spirit."Heehaw!" as we should say. The Bresl. Edit. makes thecat cry "Nauh! Nauh!" and the ass colt "Manu! Manu!" I leavethese onomatopoeics as they are in Arabic. they are curious,showing the unity in variety of hearing inarticulate sounds. Thebird which is called "Whip poor Will" in the U.S. is known to theBrazilians as "Joam corta pao" (John cut wood). so differently dothey hear the same notes.It is usually a slab of marble with a long slit in frontand a round hole behind. The text speaks of a Kursi ( stool).but this is now unknown to native houses which have not adoptedEuropean fashions.This again is chaff as she addresses the Hunchback. TheBul. Edit. has "O Abu Shihab" (Father of the shooting star evilspirit). the Bresl. Edit. "O son of a heap! O son of aSomething!" (al afsh, a vulgarism).As the reader will see, Arab ideas of "fun" andpractical jokes are of the largest, putting the Hibernian toutter rout, and comparing favourably with those recorded in DonQuixote.Arab. "Sarawil" a corruption of the Pers. "Sharwal".popularly called "libas" which, however, may also mean clothingin general and especially outer clothing. I translate "bag trousers" and "petticoat trousers," the latter being the dividedskirt of our future. In the East, where Common Sense, notFashion, rules dress, men, who have a protuberance to beconcealed, wear petticoats and women wear trousers. The femininearticle is mostly baggy but sometimes, as in India, collant tight. A quasi sacred part of it is the inkle, tape or string,often a most magnificent affair, with tassels of pearl andprecious stones. and "laxity in the trouser string" is equivalentto the loosest conduct. Upon the subject of "libas," "sarwal" andits variants the curious reader will consult Dr. Dozy's"Dictionnaire Detaille des Noms des Vetements chez les Arabes," amost valuable work.The turban out of respect is not put upon the ground(Lane, M. E., chapt. i.).Arab. "Madfa" showing the modern date or themodernization of the tale. In Lebid "Madafi" (plur. of Madfa')means water courses or leats.In Arab. the "he" is a "she." and Habib ("friend") isthe Attic {Greek Letters}, a euphemism for lover. This will occurthroughout The Nights. So the Arabs use a phrase correspondingwith the Stoic {Greek Letters}, i.e. is wont, is fain.Part of the Azan, or call to prayer.Arab. "Shihab," these mentors being the flying shaftsshot at evil spirits who approach too near heaven. The ideadoubtless arose from the showers of August and November meteors(The Perseides and Taurides) which suggest a battle raging inupper air. Christendom also has its superstition concerning theseand called those of August the "fiery tears of Saint Lawrence,"whose festival was on August 10.Arab. "Takiyah" Pers. Arak chin. the calotte wornunder the Fez. It is, I have said, now obsolete and the redwoollen cap (mostly made in Europe) is worn over the hair. anunclean practice.Often the effect of cold air after a heated room.i.e. He was not a Eunuch, as the people guessed.In Arab. "this night" for the reason before given.Meaning especially the drink prepared of the youngleaves and florets of Cannabis Sativa. The word literally means"day grass" or "herbage." This intoxicant was much used bymagicians to produce ecstasy and thus to "deify themselves andreceive the homage of the genii and spirits of nature."Torrens, being an Irishman, translates "and woke in themorning sleeping at Damascus."Arab. "Labbayka," the cry technically called "Talbiyah"and used by those entering Meccah (Pilgrimage iii. 125 232). Ishall also translate it by "Adsum." The full cry is: Here am I, O Allah, here am I!No partner hast Thou, here am I:Verily the praise and the grace and the kingdom are thine:No partner hast Thou: here am I!A single Talbiyah is a "Shart" or positive condition: and itsrepetition is a Sunnat or Custom of the Prophet. See Night xci.The staple abuse of the vulgar is curing parents andrelatives, especially feminine, with specific allusions to their"shame." And when dames of high degree are angry, Nature, in theEast as in the West, sometimes speaks out clearly enough, despiteMistress Chapone and all artificial restrictions.A great beauty in Arabia and the reverse in Denmark,Germany and Slav land, where it is a sign of being a were wolf ora vampire. In Greece also it denotes a "Brukolak" or vampire.This is not physiologically true: a bride rarelyconceives the first night, and certainly would not know that shehad conceived. Moreover the number of courses furnished by thebridegroom would be against conception. It is popularly said thata young couple often undoes in the morning what it has doneduring the night.Torrens (Notes, xxiv.) quotes "Fleisher" upon the word"Ghamghama" (Diss. Crit. De Glossis Habichtionis), which hecompares with "Dumbuma" and Humbuma," determining them to beonomatopoeics, "an incomplete and an obscure murmur of a sentenceas it were lingering between the teeth and lips and thereforedifficult to be understood." Of this family is "Taghum". not usedin modern days. In my Pilgrimage (i. 313) I have noticed another,"Khyas', Khyas'!" occurring in a Hizb al Bahr (Spell of the Sea).Herklots gives a host of them. and their sole characteristics areharshness and strangeness of sound, uniting consonants which arenot joined in Arabic. The old Egyptians and Chaldeans had manysuch words composed at will for theurgic operations.This may mean either "it is of Mosul fashion" or, it isof muslin.To the English reader these lines would appear thereverse of apposite. but Orientals have their own ways ofapplication, and all allusions to Badawi partings are effectiveand affecting. The civilised poets of Arab cities throw the charmof the Desert over their verse by images borrowed from itsscenery, the dromedary, the mirage and the well as naturally ascertain of our bards who hated the country, babbled of purlingrills, etc. thoroughly to feel Arabic poetry one must know theDesert (Pilgrimage iii., 63).In those days the Arabs and the Portuguese recordedeverything which struck them, as the Chinese and Japanese in ourtimes. And yet we complain of the amount of our modern writing!This is mentioned because it is the act preliminary tonaming the babe.Arab. "Kahramanat" from Kahraman, an old Persian herowho conversed with the Simurgh Griffon. Usually the word isapplied to women at arms who defend the Harem, like the Urdu begani of India, whose services were lately offered to England(1885), or the "Amazons" of Dahome.Meaning he grew as fast in one day as other children ina month.Arab. Al Arif. the tutor, the assistant master.Arab. "Ibn haram," a common term of abuse. and not afactual reflection on the parent. I have heard a mother apply theterm to her own son.Arab. "Khanjar" from the Persian, a syn. with the Arab."Jambiyah." It is noted in my Pilgrimage iii., pp. 72,75. To"silver the dagger" means to become a rich man. From "Khanjar,"not from its fringed loop or strap, I derive our silly word"hanger." Dr. Steingass would connect it with Germ. Fanger, e.g.Hirschfanger.Again we have "Dastur" for Izn."Arab. "Iklim". the seven climates of Ptolemy.Arab. "Al Ghadir," lit. a place where water sinks, alowland: here the drainage lakes east of Damascus into which theBaradah (Abana?) discharges. The higher eastern plain is "Al Ghutah" before noticed.The "Plain of Pebbles" still so termed at Damascus. anopen space west of the city.Every Guide book, even the Reverend Porter's "Murray,"gives a long account of this Christian Church 'verted to aMosque.Arab. "Nabut". Pilgrimage i. 336.The Bres. Edit. says, "would have knocked him into Al Yaman," (Southern Arabia), something like our slang phrase "intothe middle of next week."Arab. "Khadim": lit. a servant, politely applied (likeAgha master) to a castrato. These gentry wax furious if baldlycalled "Tawashi" Eunuch. A mauvais plaisant in Egypt used tocall me The Agha because a friend had placed his wife under mycharge.This sounds absurd enough in English, but Easternsalways put themselves first for respect.In Arabic the World is feminine.Arab. "Sahib" lit. a companion. also a friend andespecially applied to the Companions of Mohammed. Hence theSunnis claim for them the honour of "friendship" with theApostle. but the Shia'hs reply that the Arab says "Sahaba hu'l himar" (the Ass was his Sahib or companion). In the text it is aWazirial title, in modern India it is gentleman, e.g. "Sahiblog" (the Sahib people) means their white conquerors, who, by theby, mostly mispronounce the word "Sab."Arab. "Suwan," prop. Syenite, from Syene (Al Suwan) butapplied to flint and any hard stone.It was famous in the middle ages, and even now it is,perhaps, the most interesting to travellers after that "SentinaGentium," the "Bhendi Bazar" of unromantic Bombay."The Gate of the Gardens," in the northern wall, a Romanarchway of the usual solid construction shaming not only ourmodern shams, but our finest masonry.Arab. "Al Asr," which may mean either the hour or theprayer. It is also the moment at which the Guardian Angelsrelieve each other (Sale's Koran, chapt. v.).Arab. "Ya haza" O this (one)! a somewhat slightingaddress equivalent to "Heus tu! O thou, whoever thou art."Another form is "Ya hu" O he! Can this have originated Swift's"Yahoo"?Alluding to the {Greek Letters} ("minor miracles whichcause surprise") performed by Saints' tombs, the mildest form ofthaumaturgy. One of them gravely recorded in the Dabistan (ii.226) is that of the holy Jamen, who opened the Samran or bead bracelet from the arm of the beautiful Chistapa with membererect, "thus evincing his manly strength and his command overhimself"(!)The River of Paradise, a lieu commun of poets (Koran,chapt. cviii.): the water is whiter than milk or silver, sweeterthan honey, smoother than cream, more odorous than musk. itsbanks are of chrysolite and it is drunk out of silver cups setaround it thick as stars. Two pipes conduct it to the Prophet'sPond which is an exact square, one month's journey in compass.Kausar is spirituous like wine. Salsabil sweet like clarifiedhoney. the Fount of Mildness is like milk and the Fount of Mercylike liquid crystal.The Moslem does not use the European basin because waterwhich has touched an impure skin becomes impure. Hence it ispoured out from a ewer ("ibrik" Pers. Abriz) upon the hands andfalls into a basin ("tisht") with an open worked cover.Arab. "Wahsh," a word of many meanings. nasty, insipid,savage, etc. The offside of a horse is called Wahshi opposed toInsi, the near side. The Amir Taymur ("Lord Iron") whom Europeansunwittingly call after his Persian enemies' nickname,"Tamerlane," i.e. Taymur I lang, or limping Taymur, is stillknown as "Al Wahsh" (the wild beast) at Damascus, where hisTartars used to bury men up to their necks and play at bowls withtheir heads for ninepins.For "grandson" as being more affectionate. Easterns havenot yet learned that clever Western saying: The enemies of ourenemies are our friends.This was a simple bastinado on the back, not the moreceremonious affair of beating the feet soles. But it issurprising what the Egyptians can bear. some of the rods used inthe time of the Mameluke Beys are nearly as thick as a man'swrist.The woman like spite of the eunuch intended to hurt thegrandmother's feelings.The usual Cairene "chaff."A necessary precaution against poison (Pilgrimage i. 84,and iii. 43).The Bresl. Edit. (ii. 108) describes the scene atgreater length.The Bul. Edit. gives by mistake of diacritical points,"Zabdaniyah:" Raydaniyah is or rather was a camping ground to theNorth of Cairo.Arab. "La'abat" a plaything, a puppet, a lay figure.Lane (i. 326) conjectures that the cross is so called because itresembles a man with arms extended. But Moslems never heard ofthe fanciful ideas of medieval Christian divines who saw thecross everywhere and in everything. The former hold that Pharaohinvented the painful and ignominious punishment. (Koran, chapt.vii.).Here good blood, driven to bay, speaks out boldly. But,as a rule, the humblest and mildest Eastern when in despair turnsround upon his oppressors like a wild cat. Some of the criminalswhom Fath Ali Shah of Persia put to death by chopping down thefork, beginning at the scrotum, abused his mother till the knifereached their vitals and they could no longer speak.These repeated "laughs" prove the trouble of his spirit.Noble Arabs "show their back teeth" so rarely that their laughteris held worthy of being recorded by their biographers.A popular phrase, derived from the Koranic "Truth iscome, and falsehood is vanished: for falsehood is of shortcontinuance" (chapt. xvii.). It is an equivalent of ouradaptation from 1 Esdras iv. 41, "Magna est veritas etprevalebit." But the great question still remains, What is Truth?In Night lxxv. these lines will occur with variants.This is always mentioned: the nearer seat the higher thehonour.Alluding to the phrase "Al safar zafar" voyaging isvictory (Pilgrimage i., 127).Arab. "Habb." alluding to the black drop in the humanheart which the Archangel Gabriel removed from Mohammed byopening his breast.This phrase, I have said, often occurs: it alludes tothe horripilation (Arab. Kush'arirah), horror or goosefleshwhich, in Arab as in Hindu fables, is a symptom of great joy. SoBoccaccio's "pelo arriciato" v., 8: Germ. Gansehaut.Arab. "Hasanta ya Hasan" Bene detto, Benedetto! theusual word play vulgarly called "pun": Hasan (not Hassan, as wewill write it) meaning "beautiful."Arab. "Loghah" also a vocabulary, a dictionary. theArabs had them by camel loads.The seventh of the sixteen "Bahr" (metres) in Arabicprosody. the easiest because allowing the most license and,consequently, a favourite for didactic, homiletic and gnomicthemes. It means literally "agitated" and was originally appliedto the rude song of the Cameleer. De Sacy calls this doggrel "thepoet's ass" (Torrens, Notes xxvi.). It was the only metre inwhich Mohammed the Apostle ever spoke: he was no poet (Koranxxxvi., 69) but he occasionally recited a verse and recited itwrongly (Dabistan iii., 212). In Persian prosody Rajaz is theseventh of nineteen and has six distinct varieties (pp. 79 81),"Gladwin's Dissertations on Rhetoric," etc. Calcutta, 1801). Ishall have more to say about it in the Terminal Essay."Her stature tall I hate a dumpy woman" (Don Juan).A worthy who was Kazi of Kufah (Cufa) in the seventhcentury. Al Najaf, generally entitled "Najaf al Ashraf" (theVenerand) is the place where Ali, the son in law of Mohammed,lies or is supposed to lie buried, and has ever been a holy placeto the Shi'ahs. I am not certain whether to translate "Sa'alab"by fox or jackal. the Arabs make scant distinction between them."Abu Hosayn" (Father of the Fortlet) is certainly the fox, and ascertainly "Sha'arhar" is the jackal from the Pehlevi Shagal orShaghal.Usually by all manner of extortions and robbery,corruption and bribery, the ruler's motto beingFiat injustitia ruat Coelum.There is no more honest man than the Turkish peasant or theprivate soldier. but the process of deterioration begins when heis made a corporal and culminates in the Pasha. Moreover officialdishonesty is permitted by public opinion, because it belongs tothe condition of society. A man buys a place (as in England twocenturies ago) and retains it by presents to the heads ofoffices. Consequently he must recoup himself in some way, and hemostly does so by grinding the faces of the poor and by spoilingthe widow and the orphan. The radical cure is high pay. but thatphase of society refuses to afford it.Arab. "Malik" (King) and "Malak" (angel) the words beingwritten the same when lacking vowels and justifying the jingle.Arab. "Hurr". the Latin "ingenuus," lit. freeborn.metaph. noble as opp. to a slave who is not expected to do greator good deeds. In pop. use it corresponds, like "Fata," with our"gentleman."This is one of the best tales for humour and movement,and Douce and Madden show what a rich crop of fabliaux, whoseleading incident was the disposal of a dead body, it produced.Other editions read, "at Bassorah" and the Bresl. (ii.123) "at Bassorah and Kajkar" (Kashghar): somewhat like in Doverand Sebastopol. I prefer China because further off and making theimprobabilities more notable.Arab. "Judri," lit. "small stones" from the hardgravelly feeling of the pustules (Rodwell, p. 20). The disease isgenerally supposed to be the growth of Central Africa where it isstill a plague and passed over to Arabia about the birth time ofMohammed. Thus is usually explained the "war of the elephant"(Koran, chaps. cv.) when the Abyssinian army of Abrahah, theChristian, was destroyed by swallows (Ababil which Major Pricemakes the plural of Abilah a vesicle) which dropped upon them"stones of baked clay," like vetches (Pilgrimage ii. 175). Seefor details Sale (in loco) who seems to accept the miraculousdefence of the Ka'abah. For the horrors of small pox in CentralIntertropical Africa the inoculation, known also to the Badawinof Al Hijaz and other details, readers will consult "The LakeRegions of Central Africa" (ii. 318). The Hindus "take the bullby the horns" and boldly make "Sitla" (small pox) a goddess, anincarnation of Bhawani, deess of destruction reproduction. InChina small pox is believed to date from B.C. 1200. but thechronology of the Middle Kingdom still awaits the sceptic.In Europe we should add "and all fled, especially thewomen." But the fatalism inherent in the Eastern mind makes thegreat difference.Arab. "Uzayr." Esdras was a manner of Ripp van Winkle.He was riding over the ruins of Jerusalem when it had beendestroyed by the Chaldeans and he doubted by what means Allahwould restore it. whereupon he died and at the end of a hundredyears he revived. He found his basket of figs and cruse of wineas they were. but of his ass only the bones remained. These wereraised to life as Ezra looked on and the ass began at once tobray. Which was a lesson to Esdras. (Koran, chaps. ii.) The oathby the ass's hoofs is to ridicule the Jew. Mohammed seems to havehad an idee fixe that "the Jews say, Ezra is the son of God"(Koran ix.). it may have arisen from the heterodox Jewish beliefthat Ezra, when the Law was utterly lost, dictated the whole anewto the scribes of his own memory. His tomb with the huge greendome is still visited by the Jews of Baghdad.Arab. "Badhanj," the Pers. Bad. (wind)  gir (catcher): awooden pent house on the terrace roof universal in the nearerEast.The hunchback, in Arabia as in Southern Europe, islooked upon by the vulgar with fear and aversion. The reason isthat he is usually sharper witted than his neighbours.Arab. "Ya Sattar" Thou who veilest the discreditablesecrets of Thy creatures.Arab. "Nasrani," a follower of Him of Nazareth and anolder name than "Christian" which (Acts xi., 26) was first givenat Antioch about A.D. 43. The cry in Alexandria used to be "YaNasrani, Kalb awani!"O Nazarene! O dog obscene! (Pilgrimage i.,160).). "Christian" in Arabic can be expressed only by "Masihi"follower of the Messiah.Arab. "Tasbih," Saluting in the Subh (morning).In the East women stand on minor occasions while mensquat on their hunkers in a way hardly possible to an untrainedEuropean. The custom is old. Herodotus (ii., 35) says, "The womenstand up when they make water, but the men sit down." Will it bebelieved that Canon Rawlinson was too modest to leave thispassage in his translation? The custom was perpetuated byAl Islam because the position prevents the ejection touching theclothes and making them ceremonially impure. possibly theyborrowed it from the Guebres. Dabistan, Gate xvi. says, "It isimproper, whilst in an erect posture, to make water, it istherefore necessary to sit at squat and force it to somedistance, repeating the Avesta mentally."This is still a popular form of the "Kinchin lay," andas the turbands are often of fine stuff, the petite industriepays well.Arab. "Wali" Governor. the term still in use for theGovernor General of a Province as opposed to the "Muhafiz," ordistrict governor. In Eastern Arabia the Wali is the CivilGovernor opposed to the Amir or Military Commandant. Under theCaliphate the Wali acted also as Prefect of Police (the IndianFanjdar), who is now called "Zabit." The older name for thelatter was "Sahib al Shartah" (chief of the watch) or"Mutawalli". and it was his duty to go the rounds in person. Theold "Charley," with his lantern and cudgel, still guards thebazaars in Damascus.Arab. "Al Masha ili" the bearer of a cresses (Mash'al)who was also Jack Ketch. In Anglo India the name is given to alower body servant. The "Mash'al" which Lane (M. E., chaps. vi.)calls "Mesh'al" and illustrates, must not be confounded with itscongener the "Sha'ilah" or link (also lamp, wick, etc.).I need hardly say that the civilised "drop" is unknownto the East where men are strung up as to a yardarm. This greatlyprolongs the suffering.Arab. "Lukmah". a mouthful. It is still the fashionamongst Easterns of primitive manners to take up a handful ofrice, etc., ball it and put it into a friend's mouth honoriscausa. When the friend is a European the expression of his faceis generally a study.I need hardly note that this is an old Biblicalpractice. The ass is used for city work as the horse for fightingand travelling, the mule for burdens and the dromedary for thedesert. But the Badawi, like the Indian, despises the monture andsings: The back of the steed is a noble placeBut the mule's dishonour, the ass disgrace!The fine white asses, often thirteen hands high, sold by the BanuSalib and other Badawi tribes, will fetch 100, and more. I rodea little brute from Meccah to Jedda (42 miles) in one night andit came in with me cantering.A dry measure of about five bushels (Cairo). Theclassical pronunciation is Irdabb and it measured 24 sa'a(gallons) each filling four outstretched hands."Al Jawali" should be Al Jawali (Al Makrizi) and the Babal Nasr (Gate of Victory) is that leading to Suez. I lived inthat quarter as shown by my Pilgrimage (i. 62).Arab. "Al 'ajalah," referring to a saying in everyMoslem mouth, "Patience is from the Protector (Allah): Hurry isfrom Hell." That and "Inshallah bukra!" (Please God tomorrow.)are the traveller's betes noires.Here it is a polite equivalent for "fall to!"The left hand is used throughout the East for purposesof ablution and is considered unclean. To offer the left handwould be most insulting and no man ever strokes his beard with itor eats with it: hence, probably, one never sees a left handedman throughout the Moslem east. In the Brazil for the same reasonold fashioned people will not take snuff with the right hand. Andit is related of the Khataians that they prefer the left hand,"Because the heart, which is the Sultan of the city of the Body,hath his mansion on that side" (Rauzat al Safa).Two feminine names as we might say Mary and Martha.It was near the Caliph's two Palaces (Al Kasrayn). andwas famous in the 15th century A. D. The Kazi's Mahkamah (Courthouse) now occupies the place of the Two PalacesA Kaysariah is a superior kind of bazaar, a "bezestein."That in the text stood to the east of the principal street inCairo and was built in A. H. 502 (1108 9) by a Circassian Emir,known as Fakhr al Din Jaharkas, a corruption of the Persian"Cheharkas" four persons (Lane, i. 422, from Al Makrizi and IbnKhallikan). For Jaharkas the Mac. Edit. has Jirjis (George) acommon Christian name. I once lodged in a 'Wakalah (the modernKhan) Jirjis." Pilgrimage, i. 255.Arab. "Second Day," i.e. after Saturday, the trueSabbath, so marvellously ignored by Christendom.Readers who wish to know how a traveller is lodged in aWakalah, Khan, or Caravanserai, will consult my Pilgrimage, i.60.The original occupation of the family had given it aname, as amongst us.The usual "chaff" or banter allowed even to modest womenwhen shopping, and many a true word is spoken in jest."La adamnak" Heaven deprive us not of thee, i.e. grantI see thee often!This is a somewhat cavalier style of advance. butEasterns under such circumstances go straight to the point,hating to filer the parfait amour.The peremptory formula of a slave delivering such amessage.This would be our Thursday night, preceding the day ofpublic prayers which can be performed only when in a state ofceremonial purity. Hence many Moslems go to the Hammam onThursday and have no connection with their wives.Lane (i. 423) gives ample details concerning theHabbaniyah, or grain sellers' quarter in the southern part ofCairo. and shows that when this tale was written (ortranscribed?) the city was almost as extensive as it is now.Nakib is a caravan leader, a chief, a syndic. and "AbuShamah" Father of a cheek mole, while "Abu Shammah" Father ofa smeller, a nose, a snout. The "Kuniyah," bye name, patronymicor matronymic, is necessary amongst Moslems whose list of names,all connected more or less with religion, is so scanty. HenceBuckingham the traveller was known as Abu Kidr, the Father of aCooking pot and Haj Abdullah as Abu Shawarib, Father ofMustachios (Pilgrimage, iii., 263).More correctly Bab Zawilah from the name of a tribe inNorthern Africa. This gate dates from the same age as the Easternor Desert gate, Bab al Nasr (A.D. 1087) and is still muchadmired. M. Jomard describes it (Description, etc., ii. 670) andlately my good friend Yacoub Artin Pasha has drawn attention toit in the Bulletin de l'Inst. Egypt., Deuxieme Serie, No. 4,1883.This ornament is still seen in the older saloons ofDamascus: the inscriptions are usually religious sentences,extracts from the Koran, etc., in uncial characters. They takethe place of our frescos. and, as a work of art, are generallyfar superior.Arab. "Bayaz al Sultani," the best kind of gypsum whichshines like polished marble. The stucco on the walls ofAlexandria, built by Alexander of the two Horns, was soexquisitely tempered and beautifully polished that men had towear masks for fear of blindness.This Iklil, a complicated affair, is now obsolete, itsplace having been taken by the "Kurs," a gold plate, some fiveinches in diameter, set with jewels, etc. Lane (M. E. Appendix A)figures it.The woman artist who applies the dye is called"Munakkishah.""Kissing with th' inner lip," as Shakespeare calls it.the French langue fourree: and Sanskrit "Samputa." The subject ofkissing is extensive in the East. Ten different varieties areduly enumerated in the "Ananga Ranga." or, The Hindu Art of Love(Ars Amoris Indica) translated from the Sanskrit, and annotatedby A. F. F. and B. F. R It is also connected with unguiculation,or impressing the nails, of which there are seven kinds.morsication (seven kinds). handling the hair and lappings orpattings with the fingers and palm (eight kinds).Arab. "asal nahl," to distinguish it from "honey" i.e.syrup of sugar cane and fruitsThe lines have occurred in Night xii. By way of varietyI give Torrens' version p. 273.The way of carrying money in the corner of apocket handkerchief is still common.He sent the provisions not to be under an obligation toher in this matter. And she received them to judge thereby of hisliberalityThose who have seen the process of wine making in theLibanus will readily understand why it is always strained.Arab. "Kulkasa," a kind of arum or yam, eaten boiledlike our potatoes.At first he slipped the money into the bed clothes: nowhe gives it openly and she accepts it for a reason.Arab. Al Zalamah lit. tyrants, oppressors, applied tothe police and generally to employes of Government. It is a wordwhich tells a history.Moslem law is never completely satisfied till thecriminal confess. It also utterly ignores circumstantial evidenceand for the best of reasons: amongst so sharp witted a people theadmission would lead to endless abuses. I greatly surprised acertain Governor General of India by giving him this simpleinformationCutting off the right hand is the Koranic punishment(chaps. v.) for one who robs an article worth four dinars, aboutforty francs to shillings. The left foot is to be cut off at theankle for a second offence and so on. but death is reserved for ahardened criminal. The practice is now obsolete and theft ispunished by the bastinado, fine or imprisonment. The old Guebreswere as severe. For stealing one dirham's worth they took a fineof two, cut off the ear lobes, gave ten stick blows and dismissedthe criminal who had been subjected to an hour's imprisonment. Asecond theft caused the penalties to be doubled. and after thatthe right hand was cut off or death was inflicted according tothe proportion stolen.Koran viii. 17.A universal custom in the East, the object beingoriginally to show that the draught was not poisoned.Out of paste or pudding.Boils and pimples are supposed to be caused by brokenhair roots and in Hindostani are called Bal tor.He intended to bury it decently, a respect which Moslemsalways show even to the exuvie of the body, as hair and nailparings. Amongst Guebres the latter were collected and carried tosome mountain. The practice was intensified by fear of demons orwizards getting possession of the spoils.Without which the marriage was not valid. The minimum isten dirhams (drachmas) now valued at about five francs toshillings. and if a man marry without naming the sum, the woman,after consummation, can compel him to pay this minimum.Arab. "Khatmah" reading or reciting the whole Koran,by one or more persons, usually in the house, not over the tomb.Like the "Zikr," Litany or Rogation, it is a pious act confinedto certain occasions.Arab. "Zirbajah" meat dressed with vinegar, cumin seed(Pers. Zir) and hot spices. More of it in the sequel of the tale.A saying not uncommon meaning, let each man do as heseems fit. also "age quad agis": and at times correspondingwith our saw about the cap fitting.Arab. "Su'ud," an Alpinia with pungent rhizome likeginger. here used as a counter odour.Arab. "Ta'ih" lost in the "Tih," a desert wherein manmay lose himself, translated in our maps 'The Desert of theWanderings," scil. of the children of Israel. "Credat Judeus."ie. 125 and 500.A large sum was weighed by a professional instead ofbeing counted, the reason being that the coin is mostly old andworn: hence our words "pound" and "pension" (or what is weighedout).The eunuch is the best possible go between on account ofhis almost unlimited power over the Harem.i.e., a slave girl brought up in the house and neversold except for some especial reason, as habitual drunkenness,etc.Smuggling men into the Harem is a stock "topic" ofeastern tales. "By means of their female attendants, the ladiesof the royal harem generally get men into their apartments in thedisguise of women," says Vatsyayana in The Kama Sutra, Part V.London: Printed for the Hindoo Kamashastra Society. 1883. Forprivate circulation.These tears are shed over past separation. So the"Indians" of the New World never meet after long parting withoutbeweeping mutual friends they have lost.A most important Jack in office whom one can see withhis smooth chin and blubber lips, starting up from his lazysnooze in the shade and delivering his orders more peremptorilythan any Dogberry. These epicenes are as curious and exceptionalin character as in external conformation. Disconnected, after afashion, with humanity, they are brave, fierce and capable of anyvillainy or barbarity (as Agha Mohammed Khan in Persia 1795 98).The frame is unnaturally long and lean, especially the arms andlegs. with high, flat, thin shoulders, big protruding joints anda face by contrast extraordinarily large, a veritable mask. theCastrato is expert in the use of weapons and sits his horseadmirably, riding well "home" in the saddle for the best ofreasons. and his hoarse, thick voice, which apparently does notbreak, as in the European "Cappone," invests him with all thecircumstance of command.From the Meccan well used by Moslems much like Eau deLourdes by Christians: the water is saltish, hence the touch ofArab humour (Pilgrimage iii., 201 202).Such articles would be sacred from Moslem eyes.Physiologically true, but not generally mentioned indescribing the emotions.Properly "Uta," the different rooms, each "Odalisque,"or concubine, having her own.Showing that her monthly ailment was over.Arab "Muhammarah" either browned before the fire orartificially reddened.The insolence and licence of these palace girls was (andis) unlimited, especially when, as in the present case, they haveto deal with a "lofty." On this subject numberless stories arecurrent throughout the East.i.e., blackened by the fires of Jehannam.Arab. "Bi'l Salamah" in safety (to avert the evileye). When visiting the sick it is usual to say something civil."The Lord heal thee! No evil befall thee!" etc.Washing during sickness is held dangerous by Arabs. and"going to the Hammam" is, I have said, equivalent toconvalescence.Arab. "Maristan" (pronounced Muristan) a corruption ofthe Pers. "Bimaristan" place of sickness, a hospital muchaffected by the old Guebres (Dabistan, i., 165, 166). That ofDamascus was the first Moslem hospital, founded by Al Walid Sonof Abd al Malik the Ommiade in A. H. 88 706 7. Benjamin ofTudela (A. D. 1164) calls it "Dar al Maraphtan" which his latestEditor explains by "Dar al Morabittan" (abode of those whorequire being chained). Al Makrizi (Khitat) ascribes theinvention of "Spitals" to Hippocrates. another historian to anearly Pharaoh "Manakiyush." thus ignoring the Persian Kings,Saint Ephrem (or Ephraim), Syru, etc. In modern parlance"Maristan" is a madhouse where the maniacs are treated with allthe horrors which were universal in Europe till within a fewyears and of which occasional traces occur to this day. In A.D.1399 Katherine de la Court held a "hospital in the Court calledRobert de Paris," but the first madhouse in Christendom was builtby the legate Ortiz in Toledo A. D. 1483, and was thereforecalled Casa del Nuncio. The Damascus "Maristan" was described byevery traveller of the last century: and it showed a curiouscontrast between the treatment of the maniac and the idiot oromadhaun, who is humanely allowed to wander about unharmed, ifnot held a Saint. When I saw it last (1870) it was all but emptyand mostly in ruins. As far as my experience goes, the UnitedStates is the only country where the insane are rationallytreated by the sane.Hence the trite saying "Whoso drinks the water of theNile will ever long to drink it again." "Light" means easilydigested water. and the great test is being able to drink it atnight between the sleeps, without indigestion"Nil" in popular parlance is the Nile in flood. althoughalso used for the River as a proper name. Egyptians (modern aswell as ancient) have three seasons, Al Shita (winter), Al Sayf(summer) and Al Nil (the Nile i.e. flood season' our mid summer).corresponding with the Growth months. Housing (or granary) monthsand Flood months of the older race.These lines are in the Mac. Edit.Arab. "Birkat al Habash," a tank formerly existing inSouthern Cairo: Galland (Night 128) says "en remontant versl'Ethiopie."The Bres. Edit. (ii., 190), from which I borrow thisdescription, here alludes to the well known Island, Al Rauzah(Rodah) The Garden.Arab. "Laylat al Wafa," the night of the completion orabundance of the Nile ( flood), usually between August 6th and16th, when the government proclaims that the Nilometer shows arise of 16 cubits. Of course it is a great festival and a highceremony, for Egypt is still the gift of the Nile (Lane M. E.chaps. xxvi a work which would be much improved by a betterindex).i.e., admiration will be complete.Arab. "Sahil Masr" (Misr): hence I suppose Galland'svilles maritimes.A favourite simile, suggested by the broken glitter andshimmer of the stream under the level rays and the breeze ofeventide.Arab. "Halab," derived by Moslems from "He (Abraham)milked (halaba) the white and dun cow." But the name of the cityoccurs in the Cuneiforms as Halbun or Khalbun, and the classicsknew it as {Greek Letters}, Beroca, written with variants.Arab. "Ka'ah," usually a saloon. but also applied to afine house here and elsewhere in The Nights.Arab. "Ghamz" winking, signing with the eye which,amongst Moslems, is not held "vulgar."Arab. "Kamis" from low Lat. "Camicia," first found inSt. Jerome:  "Solent militantes habere lineas, quas Camiciasvocant." Our shirt, chemise, chemisette, etc., was unknown to theAncients of Europe.Arab. "Narjis." The Arabs borrowed nothing, but thePersians much, from Greek Mythology. Hence the eye of Narcissus,an idea hardly suggested by the look of the daffodil (orasphodel) flower, is at times the glance of a spy and at timesthe die away look of a mistress. Some scholars explain it by theform of the flower, the internal calyx resembling the iris, andthe stalk being bent just below the petals suggesting droopingeyelids and languid eyes. Hence a poet addresses the Narcissus: O Narjis, look away! Before those eyes I may not kiss herasa breast she lies.What! Shall the lover close his eyes in sleep While thine watchall things between earth and skies?The fashionable lover in the East must affect a frantic jealousyif he does not feel it.In Egypt there are neither bedsteads nor bedrooms: thecarpets and mattresses, pillows and cushions (sheets beingunknown), are spread out when wanted, and during the day are putinto chests or cupboards, or only rolled up in a corner of theroom (Pilgrimage i. 53).The women of Damascus have always been famed for thesanguinary jealousy with which European story books and novelscredit the "Spanish lady." The men were as celebrated forintolerance and fanaticism, which we first read of in the days ofBertrandon de la Brocquiere and which culminated in the massacreof 1860. Yet they are a notoriously timid race and make,physically and morally, the worst of soldiers: we proved thatunder my late friend Fred. Walpole in the Bashi Buzuks during theold Crimean war. The men looked very fine fellows and after amonth in camp fell off to the condition of old women.Arab. "Rukham," properly alabaster and "Marmar"marble. but the two are often confounded.He was ceremonially impure after touching a corpse.The phrase is perfectly appropriate: Cairo without "herNile" would be nothing."The market was hot" say the Hindustanis. This wouldbegin between 7 and 8 a.m.Arab. Al Faranj, Europeans generally. It is derived from"Gens Francorum," and dates from Crusading days when the Frenchplayed the leading part. Hence the Lingua Franca, the Levantinejargon, of which Moliere has left such a witty specimen.A process familiar to European surgery of the same date.In sign of disappointment, regret, vexation. a gesturestill common amongst Moslems and corresponding in significance toa certain extent with our stamping, wringing the hands and soforth. It is not mentioned in the Koran where, however, we find"biting fingers' ends out of wrath" against a man (chaps. iii.).This is no unmerited scandal. The Cairenes, especiallythe feminine half (for reasons elsewhere given), have always beenheld exceedingly debauched. Even the modest Lane gives a"shocking" story of a woman enjoying her lover under the nose ofher husband and confining the latter in a madhouse (chaps.xiii.). With civilisation, which objects to the good old remedy,the sword, they become worse: and the Kazi's court is crowdedwith would be divorcees. Under English rule the evil has reachedits acme because it goes unpunished: in the avenues of the newIsma'iliyah Quarter, inhabited by Europeans, women, even youngwomen, will threaten to expose their persons unless they receive"bakhshish." It was the same in Sind when husbands were assuredthat they would be hanged for cutting down adulterous wives: atonce after its conquest the women broke loose. and in 1843 50, ifa young officer sent to the bazaar for a girl, half a dozen wouldtroop to his quarters. Indeed more than once the professionalprostitutes threatened to memorialise Sir Charles Napier becausethe "modest women," the "ladies" were taking the bread out oftheir mouths. The same was the case at Kabul (Caboul) ofAfghanistan in the old war of 1840. and here the women had moreexcuse, the husbands being notable sodomites as the song has it.The worth of slit the Afghan knows.The worth of hole the Kabul man.So that he might not have to do with threesisters german. Moreover amongst Moslems a girl's conduct ispresaged by that of her mother. and if one sister go wrong, theother is expected to follow suit. Practically the rule applieseverywhere, "like mother like daughter."In sign of dissent. as opposed to nodding the head whichsignifies assent. These are two items, apparently instinctive anduniversal, of man's gesture language which has been so highlycultivated by sundry North American tribes and by the surdo muteestablishments of Europe.This "Futur" is the real "breakfast" of the East, the"Chhoti hazri" (petit dejeuner) of India, a bit of bread, a cupof coffee or tea and a pipe on rising. In the text, however, itis a ceremonious affair.Arab. "Nahs," a word of many meanings. a sinister aspectof the stars (as in Hebr. end Aram.) or, adjectivally, sinister,of ill omen. Vulgarly it is used as the reverse of nice andcorresponds, after a fashion, with our "nasty.""Window gardening," new in England, is an old practicein the East.Her pimping instinct at once revealed the case to her.The usual "pander dodge" to get more money.The writer means that the old woman's account was allfalse, to increase apparent difficulties and pour se fairevaloir.Arab. "Ya Khalati" mother's sister. a familiar addressto the old, as uncle or nuncle (father's brother) to a man. TheArabs also hold that as a girl resembles her mother so a boyfollows his uncle (mother's brother): hence the address "Yatayyib al Khal!" 0 thou nephew of a good uncle. I have notedthat physically this is often fact."Ay w' Allahi," contracted popularly to Aywa, a word inevery Moslem mouth and shunned by Christians because againstorders Hebrew and Christian. The better educated Turks now eschewthat eternal reference to Allah which appears in The Nights andwhich is still the custom of the vulgar throughout the world ofAl Islam.The "Muzayyin" or barber in the East brings his basinand budget under his arm: he is not content only to shave, hemust scrape the forehead, trim the eyebrows, pass the bladelightly over the nose and correct the upper and lower lines ofthe mustachios, opening the central parting and so forth. He isnot a whit less a tattler and a scandal monger than the old Romantonsor or Figaro, his confrere in Southern Europe. The wholescene of the Barber is admirable, an excellent specimen of Arabhumour and not over caricatured. We all have met him.Abdullah ibn Abbas was a cousin and a companion of theApostle, also a well known Commentator on the Koran and conserverof the traditions of Mohammed.I have noticed the antiquity of this father of oursextant, a fragment of which was found in the Palace ofSennacherib. More concerning the "Arstable" (as Chaucer calls it)is given in my "Camoens: his Life and his Lusiads," p. 381.Arab. "Simiya" to rhyme with Kimiya (alchemy proper). Itis a subordinate branch of the Ilm al Ruhani which I wouldtranslate "Spiritualism," and which is divided into two greatbranches, "Ilwi or Rahmani" (the high or related to the Deity)and Sifli or Shaytani (low, Satanic). To the latter belongsAl Sahr, magic or the black art proper, gramarye, egromancy,while Al  Simiya is white magic, electro biology, a kind ofnatural and deceptive magic, in which drugs and perfumes exercisean important action. One of its principal branches is the Darbal Mandal or magic mirror, of which more in a future page. SeeBoccaccio's Day x. Novel 5.Chap. iii., 128. See Sale (in loco) for the nobleapplication of this text by the Imam Hasan, son of the CaliphAli.These proverbs at once remind us of our old friendSancho Panza and are equally true to nature in the mouth of theArab and of the Spaniard.Our nurses always carry in the arms: Arabs place thechildren astraddle upon the hip and when older on the shoulder.Eastern clothes allow this biblical display of sorrowand vexation, which with our European garb would look absurd: wemust satisfy ourselves with maltreating our hatsKoran xlviii., 8. It may be observed that according tothe Ahadis (sayings of the Prophet) and the Sunnat (sayings anddoings of Mahommed), all the hair should be allowed to grow orthe whole head be clean shaven. Hence the "Shushah," or topknot,supposed to be left as a handle for drawing the wearer intoParadise, and the Zulf, or side locks, somewhat like the ringletsof the Polish Jews, are both vain "Bida'at," or innovations, andtherefore technically termed "Makruh," a practice not laudable,neither "Halal" (perfectly lawful) nor "Haram" (forbidden by thelaw). When boys are first shaved generally in the second or thirdyear, a tuft is left on the crown and another over the forehead.but this is not the fashion amongst adults. Abu Hanifah, if I amrightly informed, wrote a treatise on the Shushah or long lockgrowing from the Nasiyah (head poll) which is also a precautionlest the decapitated Moslem's mouth be defiled by an impure hand.and thus it would resemble the chivalry lock by which the Redskinbrave (and even the "cowboy" of better times) facilitated theremoval of his own scalp. Possibly the Turks had learned thepractice from the Chinese and introduced it into Baghdad(Pilgrimage i., 240). The Badawi plait their locks in Kurun(horns) or Jadail (ringlets) which are undone only to be washedwith the water of the she camel. The wild Sherifs wear Haffah,long elf locks hanging down both sides of the throat, and shavedaway about a finger's breadth round the forehead and behind theneck (Pilgrimage iii., 35 36). I have elsewhere noted theaccroche coeurs, the "idiot fringe," etc.Meats are rarely coloured in modern days. but Persiancooks are great adepts in staining rice for the "Pulao (which wecall after its Turkish corruption "pilaff"): it sometimes appearsin rainbow colours, red, yellow and blue. and in India is coveredwith gold and silver leaf. Europe retains the practice in tintingPasch (Easter) eggs, the survival of the mundane ovum which washatched at Easter tide. and they are dyed red in allusion to theBlood of Redemption.As I have noticed, this is a mixture.We say: Tis rare the father in the son we see:He sometimes rises in the third degree.Arab. "Ballan" i.e. the body servant: "Ballanah" is atire woman.Arab. "Darabukkah" a drum made of wood or earthen ware(Lane, M. E., xviii.), and used by all in Egypt.Arab. "Naihah" more generally "Naddabah" Lat. prefica orcarina, a hired mourner, the Irish "Keener" at the conclamatio orcoronach, where the Hullabaloo, Hulululu or Ululoo showed thesurvivors' sorrow.These doggerels, which are like our street melodies, arenow forgotten and others have taken their place. A few years agoone often heard, "Dus ya lalli" (Tread, O my joy) and "Nazilil'al Ganinah" (Down into the garden) and these in due turnbecame obsolete. Lane (M. E. chaps. xviii.) gives the former e.g.Tread, O my joy! Tread, O my joy!Love of my love brings sore annoy,A chorus to such stanzas as: Alexandrian damsels rare! Daintily o'er the floor ye fare:Your lips are sweet, are sugar sweet, And purfled Cashmereshawls ye wear!It may be noted that "humming" is not a favourite practice withMoslems. if one of the company begin, another will say, "Go tothe Kahwah" (the coffee house, the proper music hall) "and singthere!" I have elsewhere observed their dislike to Al sifr orwhistling.Arab. Khali'a worn out, crafty, an outlaw. used likeSpan. "Perdido.""Zabbal" is the scavenger, lit. a dung drawer,especially for the use of the Hammam which is heated with thedroppings of animals. "Wakkad" (stoker) is the servant who turnsthe fire. The verses are mere nonsense to suit the Barber'shumour.Arab. "Ya barid" O fool.This form of blessing is chanted from the Minaret abouthalf an hour before midday, when the worshippers take theirplaces in the mosque. At noon there is the usual Azan orprayer call, and each man performs a two bow, in honour of themosque and its gathering, as it were. The Prophet is then blessedand a second Salam is called from the raised ambo or platform(dikkah) by the divines who repeat the midday call. Then an Imamrecites the first Khutbah, or sermon "of praise". and thecongregation worships in silence. This is followed by the secondexhortation "of Wa'az," dispensing the words of wisdom. The Imamnow stands up before the Mihrab (prayer niche) and recites theIkamah which is the common Azan with one only difference: after"Hie ye to salvation" it adds "Come is the time of supplication."whence the name, "causing" (prayer) "to stand" (i.e., to begin).Hereupon the worshippers recite the Farz or Koran commandednoon prayer of Friday. and the unco' guid add a host ofsuperogatories Those who would study the subject may consult Lane(M. E. chaps. iii. and its abstract in his "Arabian Nights," I,p. 430, or note 69 to chaps. v.).i.e., the women loosed their hair. an immodestysanctioned only by a great calamity.These small shops are composed of a "but" and a "ben."(Pilgrimage i., 99.)Arab. "Kawwad," a popular term of abuse. hence the Span.and Port. "Alco viteiro." The Italian "Galeotto" is fromGalahalt, not Galahad.i.e., "one seeking assistance in Allah." He was the sonof Al Zahir bi'llah (one pre eminent by the decree of Allah).Lane says (i. 430), "great  grandson of Harun al Rashid,"alluding to the first Mustansir son of Al Mutawakkil (regn. A.H.247 248 861 862). But this is the 56th Abbaside and regn. A. H.623 640 ( 1226 1242).Arab. "Yaum al Id," the Kurban Bairam of the Turks, thePilgrimage festival. The story is historical. In the "Akd," amiscellany compiled by Ibn Abd Rabbuh (vulg. Rabbi hi) ofCordova, who ob. A. H. 328 940 we read: A sponger found tencriminals and followed them, imagining they were going to afeast. but lo, they were going to their deaths! And when theywere slain and he remained, he was brought before the Khalifah(Al Maamun) and Ibrahim son of Al  Mahdi related a tale toprocure pardon for the man, whereupon the Khalifah pardoned him.(Lane ii., 506.)Arab. "Nate' al Dam". the former word was noticed in theTale of the Bull and the Ass. The leather of blood was not unlikethe Sufrah and could be folded into a bag by a string runningthrough rings round the edges. Moslem executioners were veryexpert and seldom failed to strike off the head with a singleblow of the thin narrow blade with razor edge, hard as diamondwithal, which contrasted so strongly with the great coarsechopper of the European headsman.The ground floor, which in all hot countries is held,and rightly so, unwholesome during sleep, is usually let forshops. This is also the case throughout Southern Europe, andextends to the Canary Islands and the Brazil.This serious contemplation of street scenery is one ofthe pleasures of the Harems.We should say "smiled at him": the laugh was notintended as an affront.Arab. "Fals ahmar." Fals is a fish scale, also thesmaller coin and the plural "Fulus" is the vulgar term for money( Ital. quattrini ) without specifying the coin. It must not beconfounded with the "Fazzah," alias "Nuss," alias "Parah"(Turk.). the latter being made, not of "red copper" but of a vilealloy containing, like the Greek "Asper," some silver. andrepresenting, when at par, the fortieth of a piastre, thelatter2d. 2/5ths.Arab "Farajiyah " a long sleeved robe. Lane's"Farageeyeh," (M. E., chaps. i)The tailor in the East, as in Southern Europe, is madeto cut out the cloth in presence of its owner, to prevent"cabbaging."Expecting a present.Alluding to the saying, "Kiss is the key to Kitty."The "panel dodge" is fatally common throughout the East,where a man found in the house of another is helpless.This was the beginning of horseplay which often ends ina bastinado.Hair dyes, in the East, are all of vegetable matter,henna, indigo leaves, galls, etc.: our mineral dyes are, happilyfor them, unknown. Herklots will supply a host of recipes TheEgyptian mixture which I quoted in Pilgrimage (ii., 274) issulphate of iron and ammoniure of iron one part and gall nuts twoparts, infused in eight parts of distilled water. It is innocuousbut very poor as a dye.Arab. Amrad, etymologically "beardless and handsome,"but often used in a bad sense, to denote an effeminate, acatamite.The Hindus prefer "having the cardinal points as hersole garment." "Vetu de climat," says Madame de Stael. In Parisnude statues are "draped in cerulean blue." Rabelais (iv.,29)robes King Shrovetide in grey and gold of a comical cut, nothingbefore, nothing behind, with sleeves of the same.This scene used to be enacted a few years ago in Parisfor the benefit of concealed spectators, a young American beingthe victim. It was put down when one of the lookers on lost hiseye by a pen knife thrust into the "crevice."Meaning that the trick had been played by the Wazir'swife or daughter. I could mention sundry names at Cairo whosecharming owners have done worse things than this unseemly frolic.Arab. "Shayyun li'llahi," a beggar's formula per amordi Dio.Noting how sharp eared the blind become.The blind in Egypt are notorious for insolence andviolence, fanaticism and rapacity. Not a few foreigners havesuffered from them (Pilgrimage i., 148). In former times manywere blinded in infancy by their mothers, and others blindedthemselves to escape conscription or honest hard work. They couldalways obtain food, especially as Mu'ezzins and were preferredbecause they could not take advantage of the minaret by spyinginto their neighbours' households. The Egyptian race ischronically weak eyed, the effect of the damp hot climate of thevalley, where ophthalmia prevailed even during the pre Pharaohnicdays. The great Sesostris died stone blind and his successor losthis sight for ten years (Pilgrimage ii., 176). That the Fellahsare now congenitally weak eyed, may be seen by comparing themwith negroes imported from Central Africa. Ophthalmia rages,especially during the damp season, in the lower Nile valley. andthe best cure for it is a fortnight's trip to the Desert where,despite glare, sand and wind, the eye readily recovers tone.i.e., with kicks and cuffs and blows, as is the custom.(Pilgrimage i., 174.)Arab. Kaid (whence "Alcayde") a word still much used inNorth Western Africa.Arab. "Sullam" lit. a ladder. a frame work of sticks,used by way of our triangles or whipping posts.This is one of the feats of Al Simiya white magic.fascinating the eyes. In Europe it has lately taken the name of"Electro biology."again by means of the "Simiya" or power of fascinationpossessed by the old scoundrel.A formula for averting "Al Ayn," the evil eye. It isalways unlucky to meet a one eyed man, especially the first thingin the morning and when setting out on any errand. The idea isthat the fascinated one will suffer from some action of thephysical eye. Monoculars also are held to be rogues: so theSanskrit saying "Few one eyed men be honest men."Al Nashshar from Nashr sawing: so the fiddler inItalian is called the "village saw" (Sega del villaggio). He isthe Alnaschar of the Englished Galland and Richardson. The taleis very old. It appears as the Brahman and the Pot of Rice in thePanchatantra. and Professor Benfey believes (as usual with him)that this, with many others, derives from a Buddhist source. ButI would distinctly derive it from Esop's market woman who kickedover her eggs, whence the Lat. prov. Ante victoriam caneretriumphum to sell the skin before you have caught the bear. Inthe "Kalilah and Dimnah" and its numerous offspring it is the"Ascetic with his Jar of oil and honey." in Rabelais (i., 33)Echephron's shoemaker spills his milk, and so La Perette in LaFontaine. See M. Max Muller's "Chips," (vol. iii., appendix) Thecurious reader will compare my version with that which appears atthe end of Richardson's Arabic Grammar (Edit. Of 1811): he had abetter, or rather a fuller MS. (p. 199) than any yet printed.Arab. "Atr" any perfume, especially oil of roses.whence our word "Otter,' through the Turkish corruption.The texts give "dirhams" (100,000 5,000 dinars) for"dinars," a clerical error as the sequel shows."Young slaves," says Richardson, losing "colour."Nothing more calculated to give affront than such arefusal. Richardson (p. 204) who, however, doubts his own version(p. 208), here translates, "and I will not give liberty to mysoul (spouse) but in her apartments." The Arabic, or ratherCairene, is, "wa la akhalli ruhi" I will not let myself go, i.e.,be my everyday self, etc."Whilst she is in astonishment and terror."(Richardson.)"Chamber of robes," Richardson, whose text has "Nam" for"Manam.""Till I compleat her distress," Richardson, whose textis corrupt."Sleep by her side," R. the word "Name" bearing bothsenses."Will take my hand," R. "takabbal" being also ambiguous.Arab. "Mu'arras" one who brings about "'Ars," marriages,etc. So the Germ. "Kupplerinn" a Coupleress. It is one of themany synonyms for a pimp, and a word in general use (Pilgrimagei., 276).The most insulting term, like Dayyus, insinuates thatthe man panders for his own wife.Of hands and face, etc. See Night cccclxiv.Arab. "Sadakah" (sincerity), voluntary or superogatoryalms, opposed to "Zakat" (purification), legal alms which areindispensable. "Prayer carries us half way to Allah, fastingbrings us to the door of His palace and alms deeds (Sadakah)cause us to enter." For "Zakat" no especial rate is fixed, but itshould not be less than one fortieth of property or two and ahalf per cent. Thus Al lslam is, as far as I know, the only faithwhich makes a poor rate (Zakat) obligatory and which has inventeda property tax, as opposed the unjust and unfair income tax uponwhich England prides herself.A Greek girl.This was making himself very easy. and the idea is thegold in the pouch caused him to be so bold. Lane's explanation(in loco) is all wrong. The pride engendered by sudden possessionof money is a lieu commun amongst Eastern story tellers. even inthe beast fables the mouse which has stolen a few gold piecesbecomes confident and stout hearted.Arab. "al Malihah" also means the beautiful (fem.) fromMilhsalt, splendour, etc., the Mac edit. has "Mumallihah" asalt vessel.i.e., to see if he felt the smart.Arab. "Sardabeh" (Persian)an underground room used forcoolness in the hot season. It is unknown in Cairo but everyhouse in Baghdad, in fact throughout the Mesopotamian cities, hasone. It is on the principle of the underground cellar withoutwhich wine will not keep: Lane (i., 406) calls it a "vault".In the orig. "O old woman!" which is insulting.So the Italians say "a quail to skin.""Amen" is the word used for quarter on the battle field.and there are Joe Millers about our soldiers in India mistakingit for "a man" or (Scottice) "a mon."Illustrating the Persian saying "Allah himself cannothelp a fool."Any article taken from the person and given to acriminal is a promise of pardon, of course on the impliedcondition of plenary confession and of becoming "King'sevidence."A naive proposal to share the plunder.In popular literature "Schacabac.", And from this talecomes our saying "A Barmecide's Feast," i.e., an illusion.The Castrato at the door is still (I have said) thefashion of Cairo and he acts "Suisse" with a witness.As usual in the East, the mansion was a hollow squaresurrounding what in Spain is called Patio: the outer entrance wasfar from the inner, showing the extent of the grounds."Nahnu malihin" we are on terms of salt, said and saythe Arabs. But the traveller must not trust in these days to theonce sacred tie. there are tribes which will give bread with onehand and stab with the other. The Eastern use of salt is acurious contrast with that of Westerns, who made it an invidiousand inhospitable distinction, e.g., to sit above the salt cellarand below the salt. Amongst the ancients, however, "he took breadand salt" means he swore, the food being eaten when an oath wastaken. Hence the "Bride cake" of salt, water and flour.Arab. "Harisah," the meat pudding before explained.Arab. "Sikbaj," before explained. it is held to be alordly dish, invented by Khusraw Parwiz. "Fatted duck" says theBresl. Edit. ii., 308, with more reason.I was reproved in Southern Abyssinia for eating withoutthis champing, "Thou feedest like a beggar who muncheth silentlyin his corner." and presently found that it was a sign of goodbreeding to eat as noisily as possible.Barley in Arabia is, like our oats, food for horses: itfattens at the same time that it cools them. Had this been knownto our cavalry when we first occupied Egypt in 1883 4 our lossesin horse flesh would have been far less. but official ignorancepersisted in feeding the cattle upon heating oats and the ridersupon beef, which is indigestible, instead of mutton, which iswholesome.i.e. "I conjure thee by God."i.e. "This is the very thing for thee."i.e., at random.This is the way of slaughtering the camel, whose throatis never cut on account of the thickness of the muscles. "Egorgerun chameau" is a mistake often made in French books.i.e. I will break bounds.The Arabs have a saying corresponding with the dictum ofthe Salernitan school: Noscitur a labiis quantum sit virginis antrum:Noscitur a naso quanta sit haste viro.(A maiden's mouth shows what's the make of her chose.And man's mentule one knows by the length of his nose.)Whereto I would add: And the eyebrows disclose how the lower wig grows.The observations are purely empirical but, as far as myexperience extends, correct.Arab. "Kahkahah," a very low proceeding.Or "for every death there is a cause." but the olderArabs had a saying corresponding with "Deus non fecit mortem."The King's barber is usually a man of rank for the bestof reasons, that he holds his Sovereign's life between hisfingers. One of these noble Figaros in India married an Englishlady who was, they say, unpleasantly surprised to find out whatwere her husband's official duties.