Round about the garden ran a hedge of hazel bushes. beyond thehedge were fields and meadows with cows and sheep. but in the middleof the garden stood a Rose tree in bloom, under which sat a Snail,whose shell contained a great deal that is, himself."Only wait till my time comes," he said. "I shall do more thangrow roses, bear nuts, or give milk, like the hazel bush, the cows andthe sheep.""I expect a great deal from you," said the rose tree. "May I askwhen it will appear?""I take my time," said the snail. "You're always in such ahurry. That does not excite expectation."The following year the snail lay in almost the same spot, in thesunshine under the rose tree, which was again budding and bearingroses as fresh and beautiful as ever. The snail crept half out ofhis shell, stretched out his horns, and drew them in again."Everything is just as it was last year! No progress at all. therose tree sticks to its roses and gets no farther."The summer and the autumn passed. the rose tree bore roses andbuds till the snow fell and the weather became raw and wet. then itbent down its head, and the snail crept into the ground.A new year began. the roses made their appearance, and the snailmade his too."You are an old rose tree now," said the snail. "You must makehaste and die. You have given the world all that you had in you.whether it was of much importance is a question that I have not hadtime to think about. But this much is clear and plain, that you havenot done the least for your inner development, or you would haveproduced something else. Have you anything to say in defence? You willnow soon be nothing but a stick. Do you understand what I say?""You frighten me," said the rose tree. "I have never thought ofthat.""No, you have never taken the trouble to think at all. Have youever given yourself an account why you bloomed, and how yourblooming comes about why just in that way and in no other?""No," said the rose tree. "I bloom in gladness, because I cannotdo otherwise. The sun shone and warmed me, and the air refreshed me. Idrank the clear dew and the invigorating rain. I breathed and I lived!Out of the earth there arose a power within me, whilst from above Ialso received strength. I felt an ever renewed and ever increasinghappiness, and therefore I was obliged to go on blooming. That wasmy life. I could not do otherwise.""You have led a very easy life," remarked the snail."Certainly. Everything was given me," said the rose tree. "Butstill more was given to you. Yours is one of those deep thinkingnatures, one of those highly gifted minds that astonishes the world.""I have not the slightest intention of doing so," said thesnail. "The world is nothing to me. What have I to do with theworld? I have enough to do with myself, and enough in myself.""But must we not all here on earth give up our best parts toothers, and offer as much as lies in our power? It is true, I haveonly given roses. But you you who are so richly endowed what haveyou given to the world? What will you give it?""What have I given? What am I going to give? I spit at it. it'sgood for nothing, and does not concern me. For my part, you may goon bearing roses. you cannot do anything else. Let the hazel bush bearnuts, and the cows and sheep give milk. they have each their public. Ihave mine in myself. I retire within myself and there I stop. Theworld is nothing to me."With this the snail withdrew into his house and blocked up theentrance."That's very sad," said the rose tree. "I cannot creep intomyself, however much I might wish to do so. I have to go on bearingroses. Then they drop their leaves, which are blown away by thewind. But I once saw how a rose was laid in the mistress'shymn book, and how one of my roses found a place in the bosom of ayoung beautiful girl, and how another was kissed by the lips of achild in the glad joy of life. That did me good. it was a realblessing. Those are my recollections, my life."And the rose tree went on blooming in innocence, while the snaillay idling in his house the world was nothing to him.Years passed by.The snail had turned to earth in the earth, and the rose tree too.Even the souvenir rose in the hymn book was faded, but in the gardenthere were other rose trees and other snails. The latter crept intotheir houses and spat at the world, for it did not concern them.Shall we read the story all over again? It will be just the same.