There was a sultan, who had three sons and a niece. The eldest of thePrinces was called Houssain, the second Ali, the youngest Ahmed, and thePrincess, his niece, Nouronnihar.The Princess Nouronnihar was the daughter of the younger brother of theSultan, who died, and left the Princess very young. The Sultan took uponhimself the care of his daughter's education, and brought her up in hispalace with the three Princes, proposing to marry her when she arrivedat a proper age, and to contract an alliance with some neighboringprince by that means. But when he perceived that the three Princes, hissons, loved her passionately, he thought more seriously on that affair.He was very much concerned. the difficulty he foresaw was to make themagree, and that the two youngest should consent to yield her up to theirelder brother. As he found them positively obstinate, he sent for themall together, and said to them: "Children, since for your good andquiet I have not been able to persuade you no longer to aspire tothe Princess, your cousin, I think it would not be amiss if every onetraveled separately into different countries, so that you might notmeet each other. And, as you know I am very curious, and delight ineverything that's singular, I promise my niece in marriage to him thatshall bring me the most extraordinary rarity. and for the purchase ofthe rarity you shall go in search after, and the expense of traveling, Iwill give you every one a sum of money."As the three Princes were always submissive and obedient to the Sultan'swill, and each flattered himself fortune might prove favorable to him,they all consented to it. The Sultan paid them the money he promisedthem. and that very day they gave orders for the preparations for theirtravels, and took their leave of the Sultan, that they might be the moreready to go the next morning. Accordingly they all set out at the samegate of the city, each dressed like a merchant, attended by an officerof confidence dressed like a slave, and all well mounted and equipped.They went the first day's journey together, and lay all at an inn, wherethe road was divided into three different tracts. At night, when theywere at supper together, they all agreed to travel for a year, and tomeet at that inn. and that the first that came should wait for the rest.that, as they had all three taken their leave together of the Sultan,they might all return together. The next morning by break of day, afterthey had embraced and wished each other good success, they mounted theirhorses and took each a different road.Prince Houssain, the eldest brother, arrived at Bisnagar, the capitalof the kingdom of that name, and the residence of its king. He went andlodged at a khan appointed for foreign merchants. and, having learnedthat there were four principal divisions where merchants of all sortssold their commodities, and kept shops, and in the midst of whichstood the castle, or rather the King's palace, he went to one of thesedivisions the next day.Prince Houssain could not view this division without admiration. It waslarge, and divided into several streets, all vaulted and shaded from thesun, and yet very light too. The shops were all of a size, and allthat dealt in the same sort of goods lived in one street. as also thehandicrafts men, who kept their shops in the smaller streets.The multitude of shops, stocked with all sorts of merchandise, as thefinest linens from several parts of India, some painted in the mostlively colors, and representing beasts, trees, and flowers. silks andbrocades from Persia, China, and other places, porcelain both from Japanand China, and tapestries, surprised him so much that he knew not how tobelieve his own eyes. but when he came to the goldsmiths and jewelers hewas in a kind of ecstacy to behold such prodigious quantities of wroughtgold and silver, and was dazzled by the lustre of the pearls, diamonds,rubies, emeralds, and other jewels exposed to sale.Another thing Prince Houssain particularly admired was the great numberof rose sellers who crowded the streets. for the Indians are so greatlovers of that flower that no one will stir without a nosegay in hishand or a garland on his head. and the merchants keep them in pots intheir shops, that the air is perfectly perfumed.After Prince Houssain had run through that division, street by street,his thoughts fully employed on the riches he had seen, he was very muchtired, which a merchant perceiving, civilly invited him to sit down inhis shop, and he accepted. but had not been sat down long before hesaw a crier pass by with a piece of tapestry on his arm, about six feetsquare, and cried at thirty purses. The Prince called to the crier,and asked to see the tapestry, which seemed to him to be valued at anexorbitant price, not only for the size of it, but the meanness of thestuff. when he had examined it well, he told the crier that he couldnot comprehend how so small a piece of tapestry, and of so indifferentappearance, could be set at so high a price.The crier, who took him for a merchant, replied: "If this price seemsso extravagant to you, your amazement will be greater when I tell you Ihave orders to raise it to forty purses, and not to part with it under.""Certainly," answered Prince Houssain, "it must have something veryextraordinary in it, which I know nothing of." "You have guessed it,sir," replied the crier, "and will own it when you come to know thatwhoever sits on this piece of tapestry may be transported in an instantwherever he desires to be, without being stopped by any obstacle."At this discourse of the crier the Prince of the Indies, consideringthat the principal motive of his travel was to carry the Sultan, hisfather, home some singular rarity, thought that he could not meet withany which could give him more satisfaction. "If the tapestry," said heto the crier, "has the virtue you assign it, I shall not think fortypurses too much, but shall make you a present besides." "Sir," repliedthe crier, "I have told you the truth. and it is an easy matter toconvince you of it, as soon as you have made the bargain for fortypurses, on condition I show you the experiment. But, as I suppose youhave not so much about you, and to receive them I must go with you toyour khan, where you lodge, with the leave of the master of the shop, wewill go into the back shop, and I will spread the tapestry. and when wehave both sat down, and you have formed the wish to be transported intoyour apartment of the khan, if we are not transported thither it shallbe no bargain, and you shall be at your liberty. As to your present,though I am paid for my trouble by the seller, I shall receive it as afavor, and be very much obliged to you, and thankful."On the credit of the crier, the Prince accepted the conditions, andconcluded the bargain. and, having got the master's leave, they wentinto his back shop. they both sat down on it, and as soon as the Princeformed his wish to be transported into his apartment at the khan hepresently found himself and the crier there. and, as he wanted not amore sufficient proof of the virtue of the tapestry, he counted thecrier out forty pieces of gold, and gave him twenty pieces for himself.In this manner Prince Houssain became the possessor of the tapestry,and was overjoyed that at his arrival at Bisnagar he had found so rarea piece, which he never disputed would gain him the hand of Nouronnihar.In short, he looked upon it as an impossible thing for the Princes hisyounger brothers to meet with anything to be compared with it. It wasin his power, by sitting on his tapestry, to be at the place of meetingthat very day. but, as he was obliged to stay there for his brothers, asthey had agreed, and as he was curious to see the King of Bisnagar andhis Court, and to inform himself of the strength, laws, customs, andreligion of the kingdom, he chose to make a longer abode there, and tospend some months in satisfying his curiosity.Prince Houssain might have made a longer abode in the kingdom andCourt of Bisnagar, but he was so eager to be nearer the Princess that,spreading the tapestry, he and the officer he had brought with him satdown, and as soon as he had formed his wish were transported to the innat which he and his brothers were to meet, and where he passed for amerchant till they came.Prince Ali, Prince Houssain's second brother, who designed to travelinto Persia, took the road, having three days after he parted withhis brothers joined a caravan, and after four days' travel arrived atSchiraz, which was the capital of the kingdom of Persia. Here he passedfor a jeweler.The next morning Prince Ali, who traveled only for his pleasure, andhad brought nothing but just necessaries along with him, after he haddressed himself, took a walk into that part of the town which they atSchiraz called the bezestein.Among all the criers who passed backward and forward with several sortsof goods, offering to sell them, he was not a little surprised to seeone who held an ivory telescope in his hand of about a foot in lengthand the thickness of a man's thumb, and cried it at thirty purses. Atfirst he thought the crier mad, and to inform himself went to a shop,and said to the merchant, who stood at the door: "Pray, sir, is not thatman" (pointing to the crier who cried the ivory perspective glass atthirty purses) "mad? If he is not, I am very much deceived.""Indeed, sir," answered the merchant, "he was in his right sensesyesterday. I can assure you he is one of the ablest criers we have, andthe most employed of any when anything valuable is to be sold. And if hecries the ivory perspective glass at thirty purses it must be worth asmuch or more, on some account or other. He will come by presently, andwe will call him, and you shall be satisfied. in the meantime sit downon my sofa, and rest yourself."Prince Ali accepted the merchant's obliging offer, and presentlyafterward the crier passed by. The merchant called him by his name, and,pointing to the Prince, said to him: "Tell that gentleman, who askedme if you were in your right senses, what you mean by crying that ivoryperspective glass, which seems not to be worth much, at thirty purses.I should be very much amazed myself if I did not know you." The crier,addressing himself to Prince Ali, said: "Sir, you are not the onlyperson that takes me for a madman on account of this perspective glass.You shall judge yourself whether I am or no, when I have told you itsproperty and I hope you will value it at as high a price as those I haveshowed it to already, who had as bad an opinion of me as you."First, sir," pursued the crier, presenting the ivory pipe to thePrince, "observe that this pipe is furnished with a glass at both ends.and consider that by looking through one of them you see whatever objectyou wish to behold." "I am," said the Prince, "ready to make you allimaginable reparation for the scandal I have thrown on you if you willmake the truth of what you advance appear," and as he had the ivory pipein his hand, after he had looked at the two glasses he said: "Show meat which of these ends I must look that I may be satisfied." The crierpresently showed him, and he looked through, wishing at the same time tosee the Sultan his father, whom he immediately beheld in perfect health,set on his throne, in the midst of his council. Afterward, as there wasnothing in the world so dear to him, after the Sultan, as the PrincessNouronnihar, he wished to see her. and saw her at her toilet laughing,and in a pleasant humor, with her women about her.Prince Ali wanted no other proof to be persuaded that this perspectiveglass was the most valuable thing in the world, and believed that ifhe should neglect to purchase it he should never meet again with suchanother rarity. He therefore took the crier with him to the khan wherehe lodged, and counted him out the money, and received the perspectiveglass.Prince Ali was overjoyed at his bargain, and persuaded himself that,as his brothers would not be able to meet with anything so rare andadmirable, the Princess Nouronnihar would be the recompense of hisfatigue and trouble. that he thought of nothing but visiting the Courtof Persia incognito, and seeing whatever was curious in Schiraz andthereabouts, till the caravan with which he came returned back to theIndies. As soon as the caravan was ready to set out, the Prince joinedthem, and arrived happily without any accident or trouble, otherwisethan the length of the journey and fatigue of traveling, at the place ofrendezvous, where he found Prince Houssain, and both waited for PrinceAhmed.Prince Ahmed, who took the road of Samarcand, the next day after hisarrival there went, as his brothers had done, into the bezestein, wherehe had not walked long but heard a crier, who had an artificial applein his hand, cry it at five and thirty purses. upon which he stopped thecrier, and said to him: "Let me see that apple, and tell me what virtueand extraordinary properties it has, to be valued at so high a rate.""Sir," said the crier, giving it into his hand, "if you look at theoutside of this apple, it is very worthless, but if you consider itsproperties, virtues, and the great use and benefit it is to mankind, youwill say it is no price for it, and that he who possesses it is masterof a great treasure. In short, it cures all sick persons of the mostmortal diseases. and if the patient is dying it will recover himimmediately and restore him to perfect health. and this is done afterthe easiest manner in the world, which is by the patient's smelling theapple.""If I may believe you," replied Prince Ahmed, "the virtues of this appleare wonderful, and it is invaluable. but what ground have I, for all youtell me, to be persuaded of the truth of this matter?" "Sir," repliedthe crier, "the thing is known and averred by the whole city ofSamarcand. but, without going any further, ask all these merchants yousee here, and hear what they say. You will find several of them willtell you they had not been alive this day if they had not made use ofthis excellent remedy. And, that you may better comprehend what it is,I must tell you it is the fruit of the study and experiments of acelebrated philosopher of this city, who applied himself all hislifetime to the study and knowledge of the virtues of plants andminerals, and at last attained to this composition, by which heperformed such surprising cures in this town as will never be forgot,but died suddenly himself, before he could apply his sovereign remedy,and left his wife and a great many young children behind him, in veryindifferent circumstances, who, to support her family and provide forher children, is resolved to sell it."While the crier informed Prince Ahmed of the virtues of the artificialapple, a great many persons came about them and confirmed what he said.and one among the rest said he had a friend dangerously ill, whose lifewas despaired of. and that was a favorable opportunity to show PrinceAhmed the experiment. Upon which Prince Ahmed told the crier he wouldgive him forty purses if he cured the sick person.The crier, who had orders to sell it at that price, said to PrinceAhmed: "Come, sir, let us go and make the experiment, and the appleshall be yours. and I can assure you that it will always have thedesired effect." In short, the experiment succeeded, and the Prince,after he had counted out to the crier forty purses, and he had deliveredthe apple to him, waited patiently for the first caravan that shouldreturn to the Indies, and arrived in perfect health at the inn where thePrinces Houssain and Ali waited for him.When the Princes met they showed each other their treasures, andimmediately saw through the glass that the Princess was dying. They thensat down on the carpet, wished themselves with her, and were there in amoment.Prince Ahmed no sooner perceived himself in Nouronnihar's chamber thanhe rose off the tapestry, as did also the other two Princes, and wentto the bedside, and put the apple under her nose. some moments after thePrincess opened her eyes, and turned her head from one side to another,looking at the persons who stood about her. and then rose up in the bed,and asked to be dressed, just as if she had waked out of a sound sleep.Her women having presently informed her, in a manner that showed theirjoy, that she was obliged to the three Princes for the sudden recoveryof her health, and particularly to Prince Ahmed, she immediatelyexpressed her joy to see them, and thanked them all together, andafterward Prince Ahmed in particular.While the Princess was dressing the Princes went to throw themselves atthe Sultan their father's feet, and pay their respects to him. But whenthey came before him they found he had been informed of their arrival bythe chief of the Princess's eunuchs, and by what means the Princess hadbeen perfectly cured. The Sultan received and embraced them with thegreatest joy, both for their return and the recovery of the Princess hisniece, whom he loved as well as if she had been his own daughter, andwho had been given over by the physicians. After the usual ceremoniesand compliments the Princes presented each his rarity: Prince Houssainhis tapestry, which he had taken care not to leave behind him in thePrincess's chamber. Prince Ali his ivory perspective glass, and PrinceAhmed his artificial apple. and after each had commended their present,when they put it into the Sultan's hands, they begged of him topronounce their fate, and declare to which of them he would give thePrincess Nouronnihar for a wife, according to his promise.The Sultan of the Indies, having heard, without interrupting them, allthat the Princes could represent further about their rarities, andbeing well informed of what had happened in relation to the PrincessNouronnihar's cure, remained some time silent, as if he were thinkingon what answer he should make. At last he broke the silence, and saidto them: "I would declare for one of you children with a great deal ofpleasure if I could do it with justice. but consider whether I can do itor no. 'Tis true, Prince Ahmed, the Princess my niece is obliged toyour artificial apple for her cure. but I must ask you whether or noyou could have been so serviceable to her if you had not known by PrinceAli's perspective glass the danger she was in, and if Prince Houssain'stapestry had not brought you so soon. Your perspective glass, PrinceAli, informed you and your brothers that you were like to lose thePrincess your cousin, and there you must own a great obligation."You must also grant that that knowledge would have been of no servicewithout the artificial apple and the tapestry. And lastly, PrinceHoussain, the Princess would be very ungrateful if she should notshow her acknowledgment of the service of your tapestry, which was sonecessary a means toward her cure. But consider, it would have been oflittle use if you had not been acquainted with the Princess's illnessby Prince Ali's glass, and Prince Ahmed had not applied his artificialapple. Therefore, as neither tapestry, ivory perspective glass, norartificial apple have the least preference one before the other, but, onthe contrary, there's a perfect equality, I cannot grant the Princess toany one of you. and the only fruit you have reaped from your travels isthe glory of having equally contributed to restore her health."If all this be true," added the Sultan, "you see that I must haverecourse to other means to determine certainly in the choice I oughtto make among you. and that, as there is time enough between this andnight, I'll do it to day. Go and get each of you a bow and arrow, andrepair to the great plain, where they exercise horses. I'll soon come toyou, and declare I will give the Princess Nouronnihar to him that shootsthe farthest."The three Princes had nothing to say against the decision of the Sultan.When they were out of his presence they each provided themselves with abow and arrow, which they delivered to one of their officers, and wentto the plain appointed, followed by a great concourse of people.The Sultan did not make them wait long for him, and as soon as hearrived Prince Houssain, as the eldest, took his bow and arrow and shotfirst. Prince Ali shot next, and much beyond him. and Prince Ahmed lastof all, but it so happened that nobody could see where his arrow fell.and, notwithstanding all the diligence that was used by himself andeverybody else, it was not to be found far or near. And though it wasbelieved that he shot the farthest, and that he therefore deserved thePrincess Nouronnihar, it was, however, necessary that his arrowshould be found to make the matter more evident and certain. and,notwithstanding his remonstrance, the Sultan judged in favor of PrinceAli, and gave orders for preparations to be made for the wedding, whichwas celebrated a few days after with great magnificence.Prince Houssain would not honor the feast with his presence. In short,his grief was so violent and insupportable that he left the Court, andrenounced all right of succession to the crown, to turn hermit.Prince Ahmed, too, did not come to Prince Ali's and the PrincessNouronnihar's wedding any more than his brother Houssain, but did notrenounce the world as he had done. But, as he could not imagine what hadbecome of his arrow, he stole away from his attendants and resolved tosearch after it, that he might not have anything to reproach himselfwith. With this intent he went to the place where the Princes Houssain'sand Ali's were gathered up, and, going straight forward from there,looking carefully on both sides of him, he went so far that at lasthe began to think his labor was all in vain. but yet he could not helpgoing forward till he came to some steep craggy rocks, which werebounds to his journey, and were situated in a barren country, about fourleagues distant from where he set out.