_This story the Teacher told in Jetavana about a Brother who hadceased striving after righteousness. Said the Teacher to him: "Is itreally true that you have ceased all striving?" "Yes, Blessed One,"he replied. Then the Teacher said: "O Brother, in former days wise menmade effort in the place where effort should be made, and so attainedunto royal power." And he told a story of long ago._Once upon a time, when Brahmadatta was King of Benares, theBodhisatta was born as son of his chief queen. On his name day theyasked 800 Brahmans, having satisfied them with all their desires,about his lucky marks. The Brahmans who had skill in divining fromsuch marks beheld the excellence of his, and made answer:"Full of goodness, great King, is your son, and when you die he willbecome king. he shall be famous and renowned for his skill with thefive weapons, and shall be the chief man in all India." On hearingwhat the Brahmans had to say, they gave him the name of the Prince ofthe Five Weapons, sword, spear, bow, battle axe, and shield.When he came to years of discretion, and had attained the measure ofsixteen years, the King said to him:"My son, go and complete your education.""Who shall be my teacher?" the lad asked."Go, my son. in the kingdom of Candahar, in the city of Takkasila, isa far famed teacher from whom I wish you to learn. Take this, and giveit him for a fee." With that he gave him a thousand pieces of money,and dismissed him.The lad departed, and was educated by this teacher. he received theFive Weapons from him as a gift, bade him farewell, and leavingTakkasila, he began his journey to Benares, armed with the FiveWeapons.On his way he came to a forest inhabited by the Demon with the MattedHair. At the entering in of the forest some men saw him, and criedout:"Hullo, young sir, keep clear of that wood! There's a Demon in itcalled he of the Matted Hair: he kills every man he sees!" And theytried to stop him. But the Bodhisatta, having confidence in himself,went straight on, fearless as a maned lion.When he reached mid forest the Demon showed himself. He made himselfas tall as a palm tree. his head was the size of a pagoda, his eyes asbig as saucers, and he had two tusks all over knobs and bulbs. he hadthe face of a hawk, a variegated belly, and blue hands and feet."Where are you going?" he shouted. "Stop! You'll make a meal for me!"Said the Bodhisatta: "Demon, I came here trusting in myself. I adviseyou to be careful how you come near me. Here's a poisoned arrow, whichI'll shoot at you and knock you down!" With this menace, he fitted tohis bow an arrow dipped in deadly poison, and let fly. The arrow stuckfast in the Demon's hair. Then he shot and shot, till he had shot awayfifty arrows. and they all stuck in the Demon's hair. The Demonsnapped them all off short, and threw them down at his feet. then cameup to the Bodhisatta, who drew his sword and struck the Demon,threatening him the while. His sword it was three and thirty incheslong stuck in the Demon's hair! The Bodhisatta struck him with hisspear that stuck too! He struck him with his club and that stucktoo!When the Bodhisatta saw that this had stuck fast, he addressed theDemon. "You, Demon!" said he, "did you never hear of me before thePrince of the Five Weapons? When I came into the forest which you livein I did not trust to my bow and other weapons. This day will I poundyou and grind you to powder!" Thus did he declare his resolve, andwith a shout he hit at the Demon with his right hand. It stuck fast inhis hair! He hit him with his left hand that stuck too! With hisright foot he kicked him that stuck too. then with his left and thatstuck too! Then he butted at him with his head, crying, "I'll poundyou to powder!" and his head stuck fast like the rest.Thus the Bodhisatta was five times snared, caught fast in five places,hanging suspended: yet he felt no fear was not even nervous.Thought the Demon to himself: "Here's a lion of a man! Anoble man! More than man is he! Here he is, caught by a Demon like me.yet he will not fear a bit. Since I have ravaged this road, I neversaw such a man. Now, why is it that he does not fear?" He waspowerless to eat the man, but asked him: "Why is it, young sir, thatyou are not frightened to death?""Why should I fear, Demon?" replied he. "In one life a man can die butonce. Besides, in my belly is a thunderbolt. if you eat me, you willnever be able to digest it. this will tear your inwards into littlebits, and kill you: so we shall both perish. That is why I fearnothing." (By this, the Bodhisatta meant the weapon of knowledge whichhe had within him.)When he heard this, the Demon thought: "This young man speaks thetruth. A piece of the flesh of such a lion man as he would be too muchfor me to digest, if it were no bigger than a kidney bean. I'll lethim go!" So, being frightened to death, he let go the Bodhisatta,saying:"Young sir, you are a lion of a man! I will not eat you up. I set youfree from my hands, as the moon is disgorged from the jaws of Rahuafter the eclipse. Go back to the company of your friends andrelations!"And the Bodhisatta said: "Demon, I will go, as you say. You were borna Demon, cruel, blood bibbing, devourer of the flesh and gore ofothers, because you did wickedly in former lives. If you still go ondoing wickedly, you will go from darkness to darkness. But now thatyou have seen me you will find it impossible to do wickedly. Takingthe life of living creatures causes birth, as an animal, in the worldof Petas, or in the body of an Asura, or, if one is reborn as a man,it makes his life short." With this and the like monition he told himthe disadvantage of the five kinds of wickedness, and the profit ofthe five kinds of virtue, and frightened the Demon in various ways,discoursing to him until he subdued him and made him self denying, andestablished him in the five kinds of virtue. he made him worship thedeity to whom offerings were made in that wood. and having carefullyadmonished him, departed out of it.At the entrance of the forest he told all to the people thereabout.and went on to Benares, armed with his five weapons. Afterwards hebecame king, and ruled righteously. and after giving alms and doinggood he passed away according to his deeds._And the Teacher, when this tale was ended, became perfectlyenlightened, and repeated this verse_:_Whose mind and heart from all desire is free,Who seeks for peace by living virtuously,He in due time will sever all the bondsThat bind him fast to life, and cease to be.__Thus the Teacher reached the summit, through sainthood and theteaching of the law, and thereupon he declared the Four Truths. At theend of the declaring of the Truths, this Brother also attained tosainthood. Then the Teacher made the connexion, and gave the key tothe birth tale, saying: "At that time Angulimala was the Demon, butthe Prince of the Five Weapons was I myself."_