Antuono of Marigliano is turned out by his motherfor being the prince of fools, and enters the service of an ogre. Onwishing to return home he several times receives from this latterdifferent presents, of which he always lets an innkeeper rob him. But atlast, receiving a stick which punishes his inexperience, he makes theinnkeeper pay for all the tricks he played him, and enriches hishome.They relate that once in the town of Marigliano there was arespectable woman named Masella, who, besides possessing six marriageabledaughters, like six poles, had an only son so churlish and ignorant thathe was no good even at the snow game (that is to say, at the simplest ofgames, like that of throwing snowballs). so that she was like a sow with aheadache in her mouth, and not a day passed without her saying, "What areyou doing in this house, cursed good for nothing? Out with you, you greatrascal! Clear off, Maccabeus! Vanish, bringer of bad luck! Out of mysight, chestnut eater! Would you had been changed in your cradle andinstead of a little boy, of a pretty child, of a fine little lad, I hadhad a fine great pig!"But with all that, Masella spoke, and he only whistled. Seeing thatthere was no hope of Antuono (for so was the child called) turning hismind to any good purpose, one fine day she began to wash his head withoutsoap, and seizing a rolling pin started to take the measure of his jacket.Antuono, when he least expected it, finding himself well staked, combed,and lined, took to his heels as soon as he could escape from her hands.So long did he journey that after twenty four hours, when the littlelamps began to illuminate the shops of Cinzia, he arrived at the foot of amountain so high that it hit the clouds. There, by the roots of a poplartree, near a grotto worked in pumice stone, was sitting an ogre. Gracious!How hideous he was! His body was dwarfed and deformed with a head biggerthan an Indian pumpkin, a forehead full of bumps, eyebrows knitted, squinteyes, a flat nose as big as a millstone, from which came two tusks thatreached his ankles, a hairy chest, arms like turning frames, bandy leggedand broad footed like a goose. Altogether he resembled a devil, a fiend, ahideous beggar, and an evil spirit incarnate that would have scared anOrlando, alarmed a Scannarebecco, and made the most able swordsman fallinto a swoon.But Antuono, who had not moved a sling's throw, nodded to him, andsaid, "Good bye, sir! What's doing? How are you? Don't you want anything?How far is it from here to where I'm going?"The ogre, hearing these ridiculous questions, began to laugh, and as heliked the look of the blockhead, said to him, "Do you want a master?"Antuono replied, "How much do you want a month?"And the ogre, "See that you serve me properly, and we shall come toterms, and you will live like a lord."So having made this agreement, Antuono entered the service of the ogre,in whose house the food was thrown at you, and as to work, one lived likea sluggard. Thus in four days he got as fat as a Turk, as round as an ox,as bold as a cock, as red as a lobster, as green as garlic, and as largeas a whale, and so sturdy and with his skin so stretched that he couldhardly open his eyes.Two years had not yet passed when all this abundance began to wearyhim, and there was born in him a wish and strong urge to pay a visit toMarigliano. And in pining for his little home he wasted away and nearlytook on his former appearance.The ogre, who saw into his very entrails and knew of the itch whichmade him go about like an unsatisfied bride, called him aside and said,"Antuono, my boy, I know you have a great longing to see your own fleshand blood again. And therefore, as I love you like the apple of my eye, Iam well content that you should make this trip and satisfy your wish.Take, therefore, this ass, which will spare you the fatigue of thejourney, but by careful not to say 'Hey! Void!' or by the soul of mygrandfather, you will be sorry for it."Antuono took the ass, and without even saying, "good night" jumped onit and went off at a gallop. He had not gone more than a hundred yards,however, before he dismounted from the beast and cried, "Hey! Void!"No sooner had he opened his mouth than the little beast began torelieve itself of pearls, rubies, emeralds, sapphires, and diamonds, eachas big as a walnut. Antuono stood with his mouth open a palm's breadth,gazing at this fine discharge, this superb flux, this magnificently richdysentery of the ass. Then with great rejoicing he filled a wallet withthese jewels, climbed once more into the saddle, and setting off withgreat energy, arrived at an inn.On dismounting, the first thing he said to the innkeeper was, "Tie upthis ass to the manger. Give it plenty to eat. but be careful not to say'Hey! Void!' or you will regret it. And keep these trifles in a safeplace."The innkeeper, who was one of the "four of the craft" (the head of atrade corporation), and a master in cunning, when he heard this unexpectedwarning and saw the jewels worth millions, became curious to learn whateffect these words would have. He therefore placed before Antuono anexcellent dinner and gave him as much to drink as he could carry, and thenhad him thrust in between a straw mattress and a rough quilt. As soon ashe saw him close his eyes and heard him snoring with all his might, he ranto the stable and said to the ass, "Hey! Void!" And the ass, with themedicine of these words, carried out the usual operation, relieving itselfof a flux of gold and purging of jewels.At the sight of this precious discharge, the innkeeper planned tochange asses and gull that idiot of an Antuono, thinking it an easy matterto blind, deceive, bamboozle, perplex, hoodwink, throw dust in the eyes,confound, and fool a hog, blunderer, booby, dolt, simpleton such as wasthis fellow he had to deal with.Antuono woke up next morning when Aurora went to empty the chamber potof her old man, full of fine red sand, at the eastern window, and rubbinghis eyes with his fists and stretching his arms for half an hour withthreescore yawnings and farts by way of accompaniment, called theinnkeeper, saying, "Come here, my friend: a short account and a longfriendship. Friends we shall be, and war to the purses. Make out the billand pay yourself."Thus with so much for the bread, so much for the wine, this for thebroth, that for the meat, five for the stabling, ten for the bed, andfifteen for the tip, he laid out the money. Then taking the false ass witha pouch of pumice stone in place of the precious jewels, he left at a goodtrot for his own town.Arriving at Marigliano, before setting foot inside his house, hestarted to cry out, as if stung by nettles, "Run, mother, run, for we arerich! Unfold towels, spread out sheets, lay down coverlets, for you willnow see treasures!"The mother, full of joy, opened the chest where she kept her daughters'trousseaux and took out sheets so fine that they blew away if you butbreathed, cloths of sweet scented linen, coverlets of colors that catchthe eye, and made a fine spread.Antuono led in the ass and started so sing out, "Hey! Void!" But forall the "Hey! Voids!" he said, the ass took as much notice as of thestrains of the lyre. However, he continued to repeat these words two orthree times, and as they were all thrown to the winds he took up a heavyclub and began to belabor the ill starred beast. He flogged and thrashedthe poor animal so much till its body began to loosen, and it emitted afine yellow discharge on the white sheets.At this sight the unfortunate Masella, who had hoped fundamentally toalleviate her poverty, and now found instead another kind of fundament soliberal that it scented the whole house, took up a stick and withoutgiving Antuono time to show her the pumice stone, administered to him asound thrashing.He fled as fast as he could in the direction of the ogre. The ogre sawhim coming more at a trot than walking and, being a magician, knew whathad happened. So he gave him a good scolding for letting himself becheated by an innkeeper, calling him feeble minded, only fit to be tied tohis mother's apron strings, idiot, dunce, fool, ninny, boor, who inexchange for an ass rich in treasure had accepted a beast prolific ofordinary excrement. Antuono swallowed the pill, and swore that never neveragain would he let himself be mocked or cheated by any living soul.After a year, however, there was renewed in him the same painfullonging, and he languished with the desire to see his people again. Theogre, who was ugly of face but kindly of heart, gave him leave this timetoo, and made him a present of a fine napkin, saying, "Take this to yourmother, but mind now, don't behave like a dolt as you did about the ass.And until you reach home don't say either 'Open' or 'Shut, napkin,' for ifsome misfortune befalls you, it will be your own fault. Now go, and goodluck go with you. Come back soon."Antuono departed, but he had not gone far from the grotto before he putthe napkin on the ground, and said, "Open, napkin!" And it opened, and atonce there appeared a whole heap of costly objects, finery, and preciousthings of all kinds, the most beautiful and wonderful imaginable. Antuonothen exclaimed, "Shut, napkin!" and folding everything up in it, he madehis way to the same inn as the time before. Arriving there, he said to theinnkeeper, "Take this napkin and look after it for me, but be careful notto say 'Open' or 'Shut, napkin.'"The latter, who was a sly knave, answered, "Leave it to me," and havinggiven him plenty to eat and making him catch the monkey by the tail(getting him drunk), sent him off to sleep. Then he took the napkin anduttering the words found himself looking at enough precious things toamaze him. He therefore found another napkin so alike as to appear exactlythe same, and made the exchange.Antuono, having woken up, set off at a good trot and arrived as hismother's house, where he started to cry out, "Now at last we shall be ableto laugh at the whole of beggardom! Now shall we put an end to our wants,our rags and tatters!" and spreading the napkin on the ground, said,"Open, napkin!" But he could go on repeating it from today till tomorrow,for, as it gave not the slightest sign of opening, it was all a waste oftime.Then, seeing that things were going wrong, he said to his mother, "Maythe heavens be blessed! The innkeeper has done me again. But let it be,for he and I make two. Better for him that he had never been born. Betterthat he had fallen under cart wheels. May I lose my greatest treasure ifthe next time I pass his inn I don't smash his glasses, plates, and dishesto atoms to pay for his having stolen my ass and jewels."But his mother, hearing these fresh stupidities, flamed up in anger,crying, "Go, break you neck, accursed son! Fracture your collarbone! Away,out of my sight! for I see my entrails, and I can stand you no longer, asmy gorge rises each time you come near me! Be off with you, and may thishouse burn you like fire! I wash my hands of you, and think of you as if Ihad never brought you into the world."The unfortunate Antuono, seeing the lightning, had no wish to wait forthe thunder. And like one who has stolen clothes from a heap of washing,lowering his head and raising his heels, he vanished in the direction ofthe ogre.When the ogre saw him creeping in slowly as slowly and softly as softlyhe gave him another good dressing down, saying, "I don't know what keepsme from tearing out your eyes, gasbag, windy mouth, lump of putrid flesh,hen's arse, tattle, trumpet of the Vicaria (a town crier), noising everyblessed thing abroad, vomiting whatever is in you without ever being ableto retain the husks! If you had kept quiet at the inn, all this would nothave happened to you. But you've got a tongue like the sail of a windmill,and now you've crushed the prosperity that was once yours."The miserable Antuono put his tail between his legs and swallowed themusic, and for over three years remained quietly in the service of theogre, thinking no more of his home than of becoming a lord. However, afterthis period, he was seized with another attack of tertian fever, with alonging to return home, and begged the ogre to give him leave. And theogre, overruled by his importunities, consented to let him go and gave hima finely worked club with the warning, "Take this club in memory of me.But remember not to say, 'Up, stick!' or 'Down stick!' for my only wish isto share things with you."Antuono, taking it, replied, "Enough, for now I have grown my wisdomteeth and know how many pairs make three oxen. I am a boy no longer, andanyone who wants to cheat Antuono must kiss his own elbow first."The ogre answered, "The work praises the worker. Words are women anddeeds are men. We shall see! You have heard me more than a deaf man. A manforewarned is a man half saved!"The ogre was still talking when Antuono hurried off to his home. He hadnot gone half a mile before he cried, "Up, stick!"It was not mere word but a magic charm! The club, as if it had an impin its marrow, started to work at once like a turner's lathe about theshoulders of the unhappy Antuono. The blows fell from an open sky oneafter the other without stopping. The poor fellow, seeing himself drubbedand beaten like a Cordovan hide, cried out, "Down, stick!" and the clubstopped playing its counterpoint on the staff lines of his spine.So, having learnt at his own expense, he said, "Bad luck to anyone thatflies! I won't let it escape me this time! The one that's in for a badtime hasn't gone to bed yet!"With these thoughts he arrived at the same inn and was received withthe best welcome in the world, for the innkeeper knew what sauce was to behad from that pigskin.Antuono said to him, "Here, keep this stick for me, but be careful notto say 'Up, stick!' or it will be the worse for you. Take heed. Don'tcomplain any more of Antuono, for I warn you, and make the bedbeforehand."The innkeeper, well content as this third piece of good luck, crammedhim full of soup and made him see the bottom of the pitcher. And as soonas he had put him to bed, half asleep already, he ran to take the stick,calling to his wife to come and see the show."Up, stick!" he cried, and at once it began to test the ballast of theinnkeepers, with a whack here and a whack there, administering a soundbeating of the first order. Finally, finding themselves in such a bad way,the husband and wife, pursued by the stick, ran off to wake Antuono andbeg him for mercy.Antuono, who saw that the affair had been a huge success, that themacaroni had fallen into the cheese and the broccoli into the lard, said,"There's no way of stopping it! You'll be beaten to death with blowsunless you return my things to me."The innkeeper, who was a mass of bruises, cried, "Take everything Ihave, only deliver me from this cursed plague on my shoulders." And inorder to prove his words, he had all the things fetched that he had stolenfrom him.When Antuono had go the lot, he cried "Down, stick!" and it lay quietlyon one side.Then taking with him the donkey and the other things, Antuono returnedto his mother's house, where he made a right royal trial of the ass'sbackside and a sure test of the napkin. He amassed a pile of money,married off his sisters, enriched his mother, and proved the truth of thesaying:God helps boys and madmen.