Once a mill hand came to a miller and asked him for work, saying thathe had been underway a long time and wanted to earn a few kreutzers onceagain. The miller liked the mill hand, for he was a quick and livelyfellow. He would have given him work at once if it hadn't been for anunusual concern of his.He scratched himself behind the ears for a while and then slowlyexpressed his opinion: "Yes, I need a mill hand, and I'm not likely tofind a better one than you, but there is another problem.""What sort of one? asked the miller boy hurriedly."Now you may not believe me, but what I'm going to say is the truth.Every time I have had a mill hand sleep in the mill, the next morning hewas discovered dead. I've not been able to find out what is behind this,but that's the way it is."It has never occurred to me that I should be afraid of someone,"replied the mill hand, laughing. "Let me have a go at it. I am not bynature a fraidy cat.""It would be a shame to lose your young life," said the miller. "No oneelse has escaped alive. You won't be any different.""The long and short of it is that I am not afraid. Give me work, andI'll stay with you.""If you are willing to gamble with your life, then stay. It will serveyou right," replied the miller, half pleased and half angry.The new mill hand went into the mill and worked in spite of it all.When night fell he lay down a bit, but he did not let himself fallasleep, looking and looking to see what might be haunting the mill.Suddenly a large, beautiful cat crept up to him, meowed, arched its back,wagged its tail, and continued to creep around the mill hand. It was allhe could do to ward off the uncanny animal. When he realized that "Get!"and "Scat!" and such sayings were to no avail, he became angry, grabbedthe cat by its tail and hurled it a good distance from him. With that thecat slunk out the door.The mill hand thought to himself, "Just dare to come back!" and layback down and slept without further disturbance.Early the next morning the miller came, expecting to see the millhand's corpse. Was he surprised when the boy approached him, singing andwhistling, and told him the story of the cat.As evening was approaching the mill hand fetched a little hatchet andhid it in his bed. Night soon came. The boy lay down, and again the catcrept up to him meowing. This time the mill hand did not shoo it away, butwas nice to it and attempted to lure it closer and closer to him. When itwas standing right next to his bed, he quickly pulled out the hatchet andwith a laugh chopped off one of its front paws. With pitiful meows the cathobbled on three legs out the door.Early the next morning the miller came again to see how the boy hadfared. The latter had scarcely come into his master's view when hejoyfully cried out, "Just see what the beast left behind! It will nevercome to me again!" With these words he showed the miller the paw that hehad chopped off the cat.The miller had a good laugh and could not have been more pleased withhis new mill hand. After laughing his fill, he went about his business,and the morning passed like any other, although the master did wonder whyhis wife was nowhere to be seen.Noontime came, and there was still no fire in the kitchen. The masterfinally lost his patience, and he shouted everywhere for his "old woman."But she neither came nor answered. Finally the miller went upstairs to thebedroom where he found his wife still in bed."What you are doing? It is noontime already, and there is not even apiece of kindling burning yet in the kitchen.""I can't cook today. Something is wrong with me."The miller was curious what was wrong with her, noticing that she washolding her hands in a strange manner. Then he suddenly saw that one ofher hands had been cut off."Aha," he thought to himself, "so that is what's wrong with you!"Angrily he ran down the stairs and told the mill hand what hadhappened. The mill hand also perceived immediately that the cat had beennone other than the master's wife, and that she was a wicked witch.