In a certain city there lived a Brahman by the name of Devasarman. Hiswife gave birth to a son, and then to a mongoose. Full of love for herchildren, she cared for the mongoose like a son, nursing him at herbreast, rubbing him with salve, and so forth. However, she did not trusthim, thinking that in keeping with the evil nature of his species he mightharm her son. As is rightly said:A son will bring joy to his parents' heart, evenif he is uneducated, bad, malformed, foolish, and sinful.And as also is said:Sandalwood salve cools and soothes, but a son'sembrace far excels sandalwood salve.The relationship with one's son is more important than thatwith a best friend, a good father, or any other person.One day, after nicely tucking the boy into his bed, she took the waterpitcher and said to her husband, "Listen, master, I am going to the pondto fetch water. You must protect our son from the mongoose."After she departed, the Brahman went off somewhere to collect alms,leaving the house empty. In the meantime a black snake crept out of itshole and   as fate would have it   approached the boy's bed. However,the mongoose confronted this, his natural enemy, and fearing that it mightkill his brother, the mongoose attacked the wicked snake, tore it to bits,and threw the pieces far and wide.Proud of his valor and his face covered with blood, the mongooseapproached the mother to tell her what had happened.However, the mother, seeing his blood spattered face and sensing hisexcitement, feared, "without doubt this evildoer has devoured our son."Driven by anger and without further investigation she threw thewater filled pitcher at the mongoose, killing the him instantly.Paying no further attention to the mongoose, she rushed into the housewhere she found the boy still asleep. Near the bed she saw a large blacksnake, torn to bits. Then her heart was overcome with sorrow because ofthe thoughtless murder of her praiseworthy son, the mongoose, and she beatherself on the head, the breast, and her other body parts.While this was happening the Brahman returned home with alms fromwherever he had been begging."See there!" she cried, overcome with grief for her son, the mongoose."Oh, you greedy one! Because you let greed rule you instead of doing whatI told you to, you now must taste the fruit of your own tree of sin, thepain of your son's death."