There was once a poor man who lived in the fertile glen of Aherlow, at thefootof the gloomy Galtee mountains, and he had a great hump on his back: helookedjust as if his body had been rolled up and placed upon his shoulders. andhishead was pressed down with the weight so much that his chin, when he wassitting, used to rest upon his knees for support.The country people were rather shy of meeting him in any lonesome place,forthough, poor creature, he was as harmless and as inoffensive as a new borninfant, yet his deformity was so great that he scarcely appeared to be ahumancreature, and some ill minded persons had set strange stories about himafloat.He was said to have a great knowledge of herbs and charms. but certain itwasthat he had a mighty skillful hand in plaiting straw and rushes into hatsandbaskets, which was the way he made his livelihood.Lusmore, for that was the nickname put upon him by reason of his alwayswearinga sprig of the fairy cap, or lusmore (the foxglove), in his little strawhat,would ever get a higher penny for his plaited work than any one else, andperhaps that was the reason why some one, out of envy, had circulated thestrange stories about him. Be that as it may, it happened that he wasreturningone evening from the pretty town of Cahir towards Cappagh, and as littleLusmorewalked very slowly, on account of the great hump upon his back, it wasquitedark when he came to the old moat of Knockgrafton, which stood on theright handside of his road. Tired and weary was he, and noways comfortable in hisownmind at thinking how much farther he had to travel, and that he should bewalking all the night. so he sat down under the moat to rest himself, andbeganlooking mournfully enough upon the moon.Presently there rose a wild strain of unearthly melody upon the ear oflittleLusmore. he listened, and he thought that he had never heard suchravishingmusic before. It was like the sound of many voices, each mingling andblendingwith the other so strangely that they seemed to be one, though all singingdifferent strains, and the words of the song were these: "Da Luan, DaMort, DaLuan, Da Mort, Da Luan, Da Mort". when there would be a moment's pause,and thenthe round of melody went on again.Lusmore listened attentively, scarcely drawing his breath lest he mightlose theslightest note. He now plainly perceived that the singing was within themoat.and though at first it had charmed him so much, he began to get tired ofhearingthe same round sung over and over so often without any change. so availinghimself of the pause when the "Da Luan, Da Mort" had been sung threetimes, hetook up the tune, and raised it with the words "augus Da Cadine," and thenwenton singing with the voices inside of the moat, "Da Luan, Da Mort,"finishing themelody, when the pause again came, with "augus Da Cadine."The fairies within Knockgrafton, for the song was a fairy melody, whentheyheard this addition to the tune, were so much delighted that, with instantresolve, it was determined to bring the mortal among them, whose musicalskillso far exceeded theirs, and little Lusmore was conveyed into their companywiththe eddying speed of a whirlwind.Glorious to behold was the sight that burst upon him as he came downthrough themoat, twirling round and round, with the lightness of a straw, to thesweetestmusic that kept time to his motion. The greatest honor was then paid him,forhe was put above all the musicians, and he had servants tending upon him,andeverything to his heart's content, and a hearty welcome to all. and, inshort,he was made as much of as if he had been the first man in the land.Presently Lusmore saw a great consultation going forward among thefairies, and,notwithstanding all their civility, he felt very much frightened, untilonestepping out from the rest came up to him and said:Lusmore! Lusmore!Doubt not, nor deplore,For the hump which you boreOn your back is no more.Look down on the floor, And view it, Lusmore!When these words were said, poor little Lusmore felt himself so light, andsohappy, that he thought he could have bounded at one jump over the moon,like thecow in the history of the cat and the fiddle. and he saw, withinexpressiblepleasure, his hump tumble down upon the ground from his shoulders. Hethentried to lift up his head, and he did so with becoming caution, fearingthat hemight knock it against the ceiling of the grand hall, where he was. helookedround and round again with greatest wonder and delight upon everything,whichappeared more and more beautiful. and, overpowered at beholding such aresplendent scene, his head grew dizzy, and his eyesight became dim.At last he fell into a sound sleep, and when he awoke he found that it wasbroaddaylight, the sun shining brightly, and the birds singing sweetly. andthat hewas lying just at the foot of the moat of Knockgrafton, with the cows andsheepgrazing peacefully round about him. The first thing Lusmore did, aftersayinghis prayers, was to put his hand behind to feel for his hump, but no signof onewas there on his back, and he looked at himself with great pride, for hehad nowbecome a well shaped dapper little fellow, and more than that, foundhimself ina full suit of new clothes, which he concluded the fairies had made forhim.Towards Cappagh he went, stepping out as lightly, and springing up atevery stepas if he had been all his life a dancing master. Not a creature who metLusmoreknew him without his hump, and he had a great work to persuade every onethat hewas the same man   in truth he was not, so far as outward appearancewent.Of course it was not long before the story of Lusmore's hump got about,and agreat wonder was made of it. Through the country, for miles round, it wasthetalk of every one, high and low.One morning, as Lusmore was sitting contented enough, at his cabin door,up camean old woman to him, and asked him if he could direct her to Cappagh."I need give you no directions, my good woman," said Lusmore, "for this isCappagh. and whom may you want here?""I have come," said the woman," out of Decie's country, in the county ofWaterford looking after one Lusmore, who, I have heard tell, had his humptakenoff by the fairies. for there is a son of a gossip of mine who has got ahump onhim that will be his death. and maybe if he could use the same charm asLusmore,the hump may be taken off him. And now I have told you the reason of mycomingso far: 'tis to find out about this charm, if I can."Lusmore, who was ever a good natured little fellow, told the woman all theparticulars, how he had raised the tune for the fairies at Knockgrafton,how hishump had been removed from his shoulders, and how he had got a new suit ofclothes into the bargain.The woman thanked him very much, and then went away quite happy and easyin herown mind. When she came back to her gossip's house, in the county ofWaterford,she told her everything that Lusmore had said, and they put the littlehump backed man, who was a peevish and cunning creature from his birth,upon acar, and took him all the way across the country. It was a long journey,butthey did not care for that, so the hump was taken from off him. and theybroughthim, just at nightfall, and left him under the old moat ofKnockgrafton.Jack Madden, for that was the humpy man's name, had not been sitting therelongwhen he heard the tune going on within the moat much sweeter than before.forthe fairies were singing it the way Lusmore had settled their music forthem,and the song was going on. "Da Luan, Da Mort, Da Luan, Da Mort, Da Luan,DaMort, augus Da Cadine," without ever stopping.Jack Madden, who was in a great hurry to get quit of his hump, neverthought ofwaiting until the fairies had done, or watching for a fit opportunity toraisethe tune higher again than Lusmore had. so having heard them sing it overseventimes without stopping, out he bawls, never minding the time or the humorof thetune, or how he could bring his words in properly, augus Da Cadine, augusDaHena, thinking that if one day was good, two were better. and that ifLusmorehad one new suit of clothes given him, he should have two.No sooner had the words passed his lips than he was taken up and whiskedintothe moat with prodigious force. and the fairies came crowding round abouthimwith great anger, screeching, and screaming, and roaring out, "Who spoiledourtune? who spoiled our tune?" and one stepped up to him, above all the restandsaid:Jack Madden! Jack Madden!Your words came so bad inThe tune we felt glad in.This castle you're had in,That your life we may sadden.Here's two humps for Jack Madden!And twenty of the strongest fairies brought Lusmore's hump and put it downuponpoor Jack's back, over his own, where it became fixed as firmly as if itwas nailed on with twelve penny nails, by the best carpenter that ever droveone. Out of their castle they then kicked him. and, in the morning, when JackMadden's mother and her gossip came to look after their little man, theyfound him half dead, lying at the foot of the moat, with the other hump upon hisback. Well to be sure, how they did look at each other! But they were afraidto say anything, lest a hump might be put upon their own shoulders. Home theybrought the unlucky Jack Madden with them, as downcast in their hearts and theirlooks as ever two gossips were. and what through the weight of his other hump,and the long journey, he died soon after, leaving they say his heavy curse toanyone who would go to listen to fairy tunes again.