Long ago there lived a King, and he had three daughters, theloveliest in all the world. He loved them so well that he built apalace for them underground, lest the rough winds should blow on themor the red sun scorch their delicate faces. A wonderful palace it was,down there underground, with fountains and courts, and lamps burning,and precious stones glittering in the light of the lamps. And thethree lovely princesses grew up in that palace underground, and knewno other light but that of the coloured lanterns, and had never seenthe broad world that lies open under the sun by day and under thestars by night. Indeed, they did not know that there was a worldoutside those glittering walls, above that shining ceiling, carved andgilded and set with precious stones.But it so happened that among the books that were given them to readwas one in which was written of the world: how the sun shines in thesky. how trees grow green. how the grass waves in the wind and theleaves whisper together. how the rivers flow between their green banksand through the flowery meadows, until they come to the blue sea thatjoins the earth and the sky. They read in that book of white walledtowns, of churches with gilded and painted domes, of the brown woodenhuts of the peasants, of the great forests, of the ships on therivers, and of the long roads with the folk moving on them, this wayand that, about the world.And when the King came to see them, as he was used to do, they askedhim, "Father, is it true that there is a garden in the world?""Yes," said the King."And green grass?""Yes," said the King."And little shining flowers?""Why, yes," said the King, wondering and stroking his silver beard.And the three lovely princesses all begged him at once, "Oh, your Majesty, our own little father, whom, we love, let us out tosee this world. Let us out just so that we may see this garden, andwalk in it on the green grass, and see the shining flowers."The King turned his head away and tried not to listen to them. Butwhat could he do? They were the loveliest princesses in the world, andwhen they begged him just to let them walk in the garden he could seethe tears in their eyes. And after all, he thought, there were highwalls to the garden.So he called up his army, and set soldiers all round the garden, and ahundred soldiers to each gate, so that no one should come in. And thenhe let the princesses come up from their underground palace, and stepout into the sunshine in the garden, with ten nurses and maids to eachprincess to see that no harm came to her.The princesses stepped out into the garden, under the blue sky,shading their eyes at first because they had never before been in thegolden sunlight. Soon they were taking hands, and running this way andthat along the garden paths and over the green grass, and gatheringposies of shining flowers to set in their girdles and to shame theirgolden crowns. And the King sat and watched them with love in hiseyes, and was glad to see how happy they were. And after all, hethought, what with the high walls and the soldiers standing to arms,nothing could get in to hurt them.(: It caught up the princesses and carried them up intothe air.)But just as he had quieted his old heart a strong whirlwind came downout of the blue sky, tearing up trees and throwing them aside, andlifting the roofs from the houses. But it did not touch the palaceroofs, shining green in the sunlight, and it plucked no trees from thegarden. It raged this way and that, and then with its swift whirlingarms it caught up the three lovely princesses, and carried them upinto the air, over the high walls and over the heads of the guardingsoldiers. For a moment the King saw them, his daughters, the threelovely princesses, spinning round and round, as if they were dancingin the sky. A moment later they were no more than little whirlingspecks, like dust in the sunlight. And then they were out of sight,and the King and all the maids and nurses were alone in the emptygarden. The noise of the wind had gone. The soldiers did not dare tospeak. The only sound in the King's ears was the sobbing and weepingof the maids and nurses.The King called his generals, and made them send the soldiers in alldirections over the country to bring back the princesses, if thewhirlwind should tire and set them again upon the ground. The soldierswent to the very boundaries of the kingdom, but they came back as theywent. Not one of them had seen the three lovely princesses.Then the King called together all his faithful servants, and promiseda great reward to any one who should bring news of the threeprincesses. It was the same with the servants as with the soldiers.Far and wide they galloped out. Slowly, one by one, they rode back,with bent heads, on tired horses. Not one of them had seen the King'sdaughters.Then the King called a grand council of his wise boyars and men ofstate. They all sat round and listened as the King told his tale andasked if one of them would not undertake the task of finding andrescuing the three princesses. "The wind has not set them down withinthe boundaries of my kingdom. and now, God knows, they may be in thepower of wicked men or worse." He said he would give one of theprincesses in marriage to any one who could follow where the wind wentand bring his daughters back. yes, and besides, he would make him therichest man in the kingdom. But the boyars and the wise men of statesat round in silence. He asked them one by one. They were all silentand afraid. For they were boyars and wise men of state, and not one ofthem would undertake to follow the whirlwind and rescue the threeprincesses.The King wept bitter tears."I see," he said, "I have no friends about me in the palace. Mysoldiers cannot, my servants cannot, and my boyars and wise men willnot, bring back my three sweet maids, whom I love better than mykingdom."And with that he sent heralds throughout the kingdom to announce thenews, and to ask if there were none among the common folk, themoujiks, the simple folk like us, who would put his hand to the workof rescuing the three lovely princesses, since not one of the boyarsand wise men was willing to do it.Now, at that time in a certain village lived a poor widow, and she hadthree sons, strong men, true bogatirs and men of power. All three hadbeen born in a single night: the eldest at evening, the middle one atmidnight, and the youngest just as the sky was lightening with thedawn. For this reason they were called Evening, Midnight, and Sunrise.Evening was dusky, with brown eyes and hair. Midnight was dark, witheyes and hair as black as charcoal. while Sunrise had hair golden asthe sun, and eyes blue as morning sky. And all three were as strong asany of the strong men and mighty bogatirs who have shaken this land ofRussia with their tread.As soon as the King's word had been proclaimed in the village, thethree brothers asked for their mother's blessing, which she gave them,kissing them on the forehead and on both cheeks. Then they made readyfor the journey and rode off to the capital Evening on his horse ofdusky brown, Midnight on his black horse, and Sunrise on his horsethat was as white as clouds in summer. They came to the capital, andas they rode through the streets everybody stopped to look at them,and all the pretty young women waved handkerchiefs at the windows. Butthe three brothers looked neither to right nor left but straightbefore them, and they rode to the palace of the King.They came to the King, bowed low before him, and said, "May you live for many years, O King. We have come to you not forfeasting but for service. Let us, O King, ride out to rescue yourthree princesses.""God give you success, my good young men," says the King. "What areyour names?""We are three brothers Evening, Midnight, and Sunrise.""What will you have to take with you on the road?""For ourselves, O King, we want nothing. Only, do not leave ourmother in poverty, for she is old."The King sent for the old woman, their mother, and gave her a home inhis palace, and made her eat and drink at his table, and gave her newboots made by his own cobblers, and new clothes sewn by the verysempstresses who were used to make dresses for the three daughters ofthe King, who were the loveliest princesses in the world, and had beencarried away by the whirlwind. No old woman in Russia was betterlooked after than the mother of the three young bogatirs and men ofpower, Evening, Midnight, and Sunrise, while they were away on theiradventure seeking the King's daughters.The young men rode out on their journey. A month they rode together,two months, and in the third month they came to a broad desert plain,where there were no towns, no villages, no farms, and not a humanbeing to be seen. They rode on over the sand, through the rank grass,over the stony wastes. At last, on the other side of that desolateplain, they came to a thick forest. They found a path through thethick undergrowth, and rode along that path together into the veryheart of the forest. And there, alone in the heart of the forest, theycame to a hut, with a railed yard and a shed full of cattle and sheep.They called out with their strong young voices, and were answered bythe lowing of the cattle, the bleating of the sheep, and the strongwind in the tops of the great trees.They rode through the railed yard and came to the hut. Evening leantfrom his brown horse and knocked on the window. There was no answer.They forced open the door, and found no one at all."Well, brothers," says Evening, "let us make ourselves at home. Letus stay here awhile. We have been riding three months. Let us rest,and then ride farther. We shall deal better with our adventure if wecome to it as fresh men, and not dusty and weary from the long road."The others agreed. They tied up their horses, fed them, drew waterfrom the well, and gave them to drink. and then, tired out, they wentinto the hut, said their prayers to God, and lay down to sleep withtheir weapons close to their hands, like true bogatirs and men ofpower.In the morning the youngest brother. Sunrise, said to the eldestbrother, Evening, "Midnight and I are going hunting to day, and you shall rest here, andsee what sort of dinner you can give us when we come back.""Very well," says Evening. "but to morrow I shall go hunting, and oneof you shall stay here and cook the dinner."Nobody made bones about that, and so Evening stood at the door of thehut while the others rode off Midnight on his black horse, andSunrise on his horse, white as a summer cloud. They rode off into theforest, and disappeared among the green trees.Evening watched them out of sight, and then, without thinking twiceabout what he was doing, went out into the yard, picked out the finestsheep he could see, caught it, killed it, skinned it, cleaned it, andset it in a cauldron on the stove so as to be ready and hot wheneverhis brothers should come riding back from the forest. As soon as thatwas done, Evening lay down on the broad bench to rest himself.He had scarcely lain down before there were a knocking and a rattlingand a stumbling, and the door opened, and in walked a little man ayard high, with a beard seven yards long flowing out behind himover both his shoulders. He looked round angrily, and saw Evening, whoyawned, and sat up on the bench, and began chuckling at the sight ofhim. The little man screamed out, "What are you chuckling about? How dare you play the master in myhouse? How dare you kill my best sheep?"Evening answered him, laughing, "Grow a little bigger, and it won't be so hard to see you down there.Till then it will be better for you to keep a civil tongue in yourhead."The little man was angry before, but now he was angrier."What?" he screamed. "I am little, am I? Well, see what little does!"And with that he grabbed an old crust of bread, leapt on Evening'sshoulders, and began beating him over the head. Yes, and the littlefellow was so strong he beat Evening till he was half dead, and wasblind in one eye and could not see out of the other. Then, when he wastired, he threw Evening under the bench, took the sheep out of thecauldron, gobbled it up in a few mouthfuls, and, when he had done,went off again into the forest.(Footnote 4: The little man was really one arshin high, and his beardwas seven arshins long. An arshin is 0.77 of a yard, so any one whoknows decimals can tell exactly how high the little man was and theprecise length of his beard.)When Evening came to his senses again, he bound up his head with adishcloth, and lay on the ground and groaned.Midnight and Sunrise rode back, on the black horse and the white, andcame to the hut, where they found their brother groaning on theground, unable to see out of his eyes, and with a dishcloth round hishead."What are you tied up like that for?" they asked. "and where is ourdinner?"Evening was ashamed to tell them the truth how he had been thumpedabout with a crust of bread by a little fellow only a yard high. Hemoaned and said, "O my brothers, I made a fire in the stove, and fell ill from thegreat heat in this little hut. My head ached. All day I lay senseless,and could neither boil nor roast. I thought my head would burst withthe heat, and my brains fly beyond the seventh world."Next day Sunrise went hunting with Evening, whose head was still boundup in a dishcloth, and hurting so sorely that he could hardly see.Midnight stayed at home. It was his turn to see to the dinner. Sunriserode out on his cloud white horse, and Evening on his dusky brown.Midnight stood in the doorway of the hut, watched them disappear amongthe green trees, and then set about getting the dinner.He lit the fire, but was careful not to make it too hot. Then he wentinto the yard, caught the very fattest of the sheep, killed it,skinned it, cleaned it, cut it up, and set it on the stove. Then, whenall was ready, he lay down on the bench and rested himself.But before he had lain there long there were a knocking, a stamping, arattling, a grumbling, and in came the little old man, one yard high,with a beard seven yards long, and without wasting words the littlefellow leapt on the shoulders of the bogatir, and set to beating himand thumping him, first on one side of his head and then on the other.He gave him such a banging that he very nearly made an end of himaltogether. Then the little fellow ate up the whole of the sheep in afew mouthfuls, and went off angrily into the forest, with his longwhite beard flowing behind him.Midnight tied up his head with a handkerchief, and lay down under thebench, groaning and groaning, unable to put his head to the ground, oreven to lay it in the crook of his arm, it was so bruised by thebeating given it by the little old man.In the evening the brothers rode back, and found Midnight groaningunder the bench, with his head bound up in a handkerchief.Evening looked at him and said nothing. Perhaps he was thinking of hisown bruised head, which was still tied up in a dishcloth."What's the matter with you?" says Sunrise."There never was such another stove as this," says Midnight. "I'd nosooner lit it than it seemed as if the whole hut were on fire. Myhead nearly burst. It's aching now. and as for your dinner, why, I'venot been able to put a hand to anything all day."Evening chuckled to himself, but Sunrise only said, "That's bad,brother. but you shall go hunting to morrow, and I'll stay at home,and see what I can do with the stove."And so on the third day the two elder brothers went hunting Midnighton his black horse, and Evening on his horse of dusky brown. Sunrisestood in the doorway of the hut, and saw them disappear under thegreen trees. The sun shone on his golden curls, and his blue eyes werelike the sky itself. There, never was such another bogatir as he.He went into the hut and lit the stove. Then he went out into theyard, chose the best sheep he could find, killed it, skinned it,cleaned it, cut it up, and set it on the stove. He made everythingready, and then lay down on the bench.Before he had lain there very long he heard a stumping, a thumping, aknocking, a rattling, a grumbling, a rumbling. Sunrise leaped up fromthe bench and looked out through the window of the hut. There in theyard was the little old man, one yard high, with a beard seven yardslong. He was carrying a whole haystack on his head and a great tub ofwater in his arms. He came into the middle of the yard, and set downhis tub to water all the beasts. He set down the haystack andscattered the hay about. All the cattle and the sheep came together toeat and to drink, and the little man stood and counted them. Hecounted the oxen, he counted the goats, and then he counted the sheep.He counted them once, and his eyes began to flash. He counted themtwice, and he began to grind his teeth. He counted them a third time,made sure that one was missing, and then he flew into a violent rage,rushed across the yard and into the hut, and gave Sunrise a terrificblow on the head.Sunrise shook his head as if a fly had settled on it. Then he jumpedsuddenly and caught the end of the long beard of the little old man,and set to pulling him this way and that, round and round the hut, asif his beard was a rope. Phew! how the little man roared.Sunrise laughed, and tugged him this way and that, and mocked him,crying out, "If you do not know the ford, it is better not to go intothe water," meaning that the little fellow had begun to beat himwithout finding out who was the stronger.The little old man, one yard high, with a beard seven yards long,began to pray and to beg, "O man of power, O great and mighty bogatir, have mercy upon me. Donot kill me. Leave me my soul to repent with."Sunrise laughed, and dragged the little fellow out into the yard,whirled him round at the end of his beard, and brought him to a greatoak trunk that lay on the ground. Then with a heavy iron wedge hefixed the end of the little man's beard firmly in the oaken trunk,and, leaving the little man howling and lamenting, went back to thehut, set it in order again, saw that the sheep was cooking as itshould, and then lay down in peace to wait for the coming of hisbrothers.Evening and Midnight rode home, leapt from their horses, and came intothe hut to see how the little man had dealt with their brother. Theycould hardly believe their eyes when they saw him alive and well,without a bruise, lying comfortably on the bench.He sat up and laughed in their faces."Well, brothers," says he, "come along with me into the yard, and Ithink I can show you that headache of yours. It's a good deal strongerthan it is big, but for the time being you need not be afraid of it,for it's fastened to an oak timber that all three of us together couldnot lift."He got up and went into the yard. Evening and Midnight followed himwith shamed faces. But when they came to the oaken timber the littleman was not there. Long ago he had torn himself free and run away intothe forest. But half his beard was left, wedged in the trunk, andSunrise pointed to that and said, "Tell me, brothers, was it the heat of the stove that gave you yourheadaches? Or had this long beard something to do with it?"The brothers grew red, and laughed, and told him the whole truth.Meanwhile Sunrise had been looking at the end of the beard, the end ofthe half beard that was left, and he saw that it had been torn out bythe roots, and that drops of blood from the little man's chin showedthe way he had gone.Quickly the brothers went back to the hut and ate up the sheep. Thenthey leapt on their horses, and rode off into the green forest,following the drops of blood that had fallen from the little man'schin. For three days they rode through the green forest, until at lastthe red drops of the trail led them to a deep pit, a black hole in theearth, hidden by thick bushes and going far down into the underworld.Sunrise left his brothers to guard the hole, while he went off intothe forest and gathered bast, and twisted it, and made a strong rope,and brought it to the mouth of the pit, and asked his brothers tolower him down.He made a loop in the rope. His brothers kissed him on both cheeks,and he kissed them back. Then he sat in the loop, and Evening andMidnight lowered him down into the darkness. Down and down he went,swinging in the dark, till he came into a world under the world, witha light that was neither that of the sun, nor of the moon, nor of thestars. He stepped from the loop in the rope of twisted bast, and setout walking through the underworld, going whither his eyes led him,for he found no more drops of blood, nor any other traces of thelittle old man.He walked and walked, and came at last to a palace of copper, greenand ruddy in the strange light. He went into that palace, and therecame to meet him in the copper halls a maiden whose cheeks were redderthan the aloe and whiter than the snow. She was the youngest daughterof the King, and the loveliest of the three princesses, who were theloveliest in all the world. Sweetly she curtsied to Sunrise, as hestood there with his golden hair and his eyes blue as the sky atmorning, and sweetly she asked him, "How have you come hither, my brave young man of your own will oragainst it?""Your father has sent to rescue you and your sisters."She bade him sit at the table, and gave him food and brought him alittle flask of the water of strength."Strong you are," says she, "but not strong enough for what is beforeyou. Drink this, and your strength will be greater than it is. for youwill need all the strength you have and can win, if you are to rescueus and live."Sunrise looked in her sweet eyes, and drank the water of strength in asingle draught, and felt gigantic power forcing its way throughout hisbody."Now," thought he, "let come what may."Instantly a violent wind rushed through the copper palace, and thePrincess trembled."The snake that holds me here is coming," says she. "He is flyinghither on his strong wings."She took the great hand of the bogatir in her little fingers, and drewhim to another room, and hid him there.The copper palace rocked in the wind, and there flew into the greathall a huge snake with three heads. The snake hissed loudly, andcalled out in a whistling voice, "I smell the smell of a Russian soul. What visitor have you here?""How could any one come here?" said the Princess. "You have beenflying over Russia. There you smelt Russian souls, and the smell isstill in your nostrils, so that you think you smell them here.""It is true," said the snake: "I have been flying over Russia. I haveflown far. Let me eat and drink, for I am both hungry and thirsty."All this time Sunrise was watching from the other room.The Princess brought meat and drink to the snake, and in the drink sheput a philtre of sleep.The snake ate and drank, and began to feel sleepy. He coiled himselfup in rings, laid his three heads in the lap of the Princess, told herto scratch them for him, and dropped into a deep sleep.The Princess called Sunrise, and the bogatir rushed in, swung hisglittering sword three times round his golden head, and cut off allthree heads of the snake. It was like felling three oak trees at asingle blow. Then he made a great fire of wood, and threw upon it thebody of the snake, and, when it was burnt up, scattered the ashes overthe open country."And now fare you well," says Sunrise to the Princess. but she threwher arms about his neck."Fare you well," says he. "I go to seek your sisters. As soon as Ihave found them I will come back."And at that she let him go.He walked on further through the underworld, and came at last to apalace of silver, gleaming in the strange light.He went in there, and was met with sweet words and kindness by thesecond of the three lovely princesses. In that palace he killed asnake with six heads. The Princess begged him to stay. but he told herhe had yet to find her eldest sister. At that she wished him the helpof God, and he left her, and went on further.He walked and walked, and came at last to a palace of gold, glitteringin the light of the underworld. All happened as in the other palaces.The eldest of the three daughters of the King met him with courtesyand kindness. And he killed a snake with twelve heads and freed thePrincess from her imprisonment. The Princess rejoiced, and thankedSunrise, and set about her packing to go home.And this was the way of her packing. She went out into the broadcourtyard and waved a scarlet handkerchief, and instantly the wholepalace, golden and glittering, and the kingdom belonging to it, becamelittle, little, little, till it went into a little golden egg. ThePrincess tied the egg in a corner of her handkerchief, and set outwith Sunrise to join her sisters and go home to her father.Her sisters did their packing in the same way. The silver palace andits kingdom were packed by the second sister into a little silver egg.And when they came to the copper palace, the youngest of the threelovely princesses clapped her hands and kissed Sunrise on both hischeeks, and waved a scarlet handkerchief, and instantly the copperpalace and its kingdom were packed into a little copper egg, shiningruddy and green.And so Sunrise and the three daughters of the King came to the foot ofthe deep hole down which he had come into the underworld. And therewas the rope hanging with the loop at its end. And they sat in theloop, and Evening and Midnight pulled them up one by one, rejoicingtogether. Then the three brothers took, each of them, a princess withhim on his horse, and they all rode together back to the old King,telling talcs and singing songs as they went. The Princess from thegolden palace rode with Evening on his horse of dusky brown. thePrincess from the silver palace rode with Midnight on his horse asblack as charcoal. but the Princess from the copper palace, theyoungest of them all, rode with Sunrise on his horse, white as asummer cloud. Merry was the journey through the green forest, andgladly they rode over the open plain, till they came at last to thepalace of her father.There was the old King, sitting melancholy alone, when the threebrothers with the princesses rode into the courtyard of the palace.The old King was so glad that he laughed and cried at the same time,and his tears ran down his beard."Ah me!" says the old King, "I am old, and you young men have broughtmy daughters back from the very world under the world. Safer they willbe if they have you to guard them, even than they were in the palace Ihad built for them underground. But I have only one kingdom and threedaughters.""Do not trouble about that," laughed the three princesses, and theyall rode out together into the open country, and there the princessesbroke their eggs, one after the other, and there were the palaces ofsilver, copper, and gold, with the kingdoms belonging to them, and thecattle and the sheep and the goats. There was a kingdom for each ofthe brothers. Then they made a great feast, and had three weddings alltogether, and the old King sat with the mother of the three strongmen, and men of power, the noble bogatirs, Evening, Midnight, andSunrise, sitting at his side. Great was the feasting, loud were thesongs, and the King made Sunrise his heir, so that some day he wouldwear his crown. But little did Sunrise think of that. He thought ofnothing but the youngest Princess. And little she thought of it, forshe had no eyes but for Sunrise. And merrily they lived together inthe copper palace. And happily they rode together on the horse thatwas as white as clouds in summer.