Mosaku and his apprentice Minokichi journeyed to a forest, some littledistance from their village. It was a bitterly cold night when they nearedtheir destination, and saw in front of them a cold sweep of water. Theydesired to cross this river, but the ferryman had gone away, leaving hisboat on the other side of the water, and as the weather was too inclementto admit of swimming across the river they were glad to take shelter inthe ferryman's little hut.Mosaku fell asleep almost immediately he entered this humble butwelcome shelter. Minokichi, however, lay awake for a long time listeningto the cry of the wind and the hiss of the snow as it was blown againstthe door.Minokichi at last fell asleep, to be soon awakened by a shower of snowfalling across his face. He found that the door had been blown open, andthat standing in the room was a fair woman in dazzlingly white garments.For a moment she stood thus. then she bent over Mosaku, her breath comingforth like white smoke. After bending thus over the old man for a minuteor two she turned to Minokichi and hovered over him. He tried to cry out,for the breath of this woman was like a freezing blast of wind. She toldhim that she had intended to treat him as she had done the old man at hisside, but forbore on account of his youth and beauty. ThreateningMinokichi with instant death if he dared to mention to anyone what he hadseen, she suddenly vanished.Then Minokichi called out to his beloved master, "Mosaku, Mosaku, wake!Something very terrible has happened!" But there was no reply. He touchedthe hand of his master in the dark, and found it was like a piece of ice.Mosaku was dead!During the next winter, while Minokichi was returning home, he chancedto meet a pretty girl by the name of Yuki. She informed him that she wasgoing to Yedo, where she desired to find a situation as a servant.Minokichi was charmed with this maiden, and he went so far as to ask ifshe were betrothed, and hearing that she was not, he took her to his ownhome, and in due time married her.Yuki presented her husband with ten fine and handsome children, fairerof skin than average. When Minokichi's mother died, her last words were inpraise of Yuki, and her eulogy was echoed by many of the country folk inthe district.One night, while Yuki was sewing, the light of a paper lamp shiningupon her face, Minokichi recalled the extraordinary experience he had hadin the ferryman's hut."Yuki," said he, "you remind me so much of a beautiful white woman Isaw when I was eighteen years old. She killed my master with her ice coldbreath. I am sure she was some strange spirit, and yet tonight she seemsto resemble you."Yuki flung down her sewing. There was a horrible smile on her face asshe bent close to her husband and shrieked, "It was I, Yuki Onna, who cameto you then, and silently killed your master! Oh, faithless wretch, youhave broken your promise to keep the matter secret, and if it were not forour sleeping children I would kill you now! Remember, if they have aughtto complain of at your hands I shall hear, I shall know, and on a nightwhen the snow falls I will kill you!"Then Yuki Onna, the Lady of the Snow, changed into a white mist, and,shrieking and shuddering, passed through the smoke hole, never to returnagain.