Once upon a time, when King Solomon the wise ruled over the people,some shepherds gathered under a tree and lit a fire, not for any specialreason, but just to pass their time, as they often do. When they left,they did not take care to put the fire out. It was left burning under theashes. Spreading slowly, it caught the great tree, which soon afterwardsbecame a mass of living flames.A snake had crept onto that tree before and found itself now in dangerof perishing in the flames. Creeping upwards to the very top of the tree,the snake cried as loud as it could, for she felt her skin scorched by thefire.At that moment a man passed by, and hearing the shrieking of the snake,who begged him to save her from the flames, he took pity on her, andcutting a long stick, he reached with it up to the top of the tree for thesnake to glide down on it. But he did not know the mind of the cunningbeast, which had aforetime deceived his forefather Adam, for, instead ofgliding down to the ground, no sooner did the snake reach the neck of thegood man than she coiled herself round and round his neck.In vain did he remind her that he had saved her life. She would nothear of anything, for she said, "My skin is dearer to me than to you, andI remain where I am. You cannot shake me off."Finding that he could not get rid of the snake, the man went from judgeto judge, from king to king, to decide between them, but no one could helphim. At last, hearing of the wisdom of King Solomon, he came to him andlaid his case before him.But King Solomon said, "I am not going to judge between you unless youboth first promise to abide by my word." Both did so.Turning to the snake, King Solomon then said, "You must uncoil yourselfand get down on the earth, for I cannot judge fairly between one who isstanding on the ground and one who is riding."Cunning though the snake may be, she did not understand the wisdom ofKing Solomon, and therefore, uncoiling herself, she glided down and restedon the ground.Turning to the man, King Solomon said, "Do you not know that you mustnever trust a snake?"The man at once understood what the king meant, and taking up a stone,he bruised the snake's head. And thus justice was done.