Cuentos Populars Catalans.There was once a girl so poor that she had nothing to live on, andwandered about the world asking for charity. One day she arrived ata thatched cottage, and inquired if they could give her any work. Thefarmer said he wanted a cowherd, as his own had left him, and if thegirl liked the place she might take it. So she became a cowherd.One morning she was driving her cows through the meadows when she heardnear by a loud groan that almost sounded human. She hastened to the spotfrom which the noise came, and found it proceeded from a lion who laystretched upon the ground.You can guess how frightened she was! But the lion seemed in such painthat she was sorry for him, and drew nearer and nearer till she saw hehad a large thorn in one foot. She pulled out the thorn and bound up theplace, and the lion was grateful, and licked her hand by way of thankswith his big rough tongue.When the girl had finished she went back to find the cows, but they hadgone, and though she hunted everywhere she never found them. and she hadto return home and confess to her master, who scolded her bitterly, andafterwards beat her. Then he said, 'Now you will have to look after theasses.'So every day she had to take the asses to the woods to feed, until onemorning, exactly a year after she had found the lion, she heard a groanwhich sounded quite human. She went straight to the place from which thenoise came, and, to her great surprise, beheld the same lion stretchedon the ground with a deep wound across his face.This time she was not afraid at all, and ran towards him, washing thewound and laying soothing herbs upon it. and when she had bound it upthe lion thanked her in the same manner as before.After that she returned to her flock, but they were nowhere to beseen. She searched here and she searched there, but they had vanishedcompletely!Then she had to go home and confess to her master, who first scolded herand afterwards beat her. 'Now go,' he ended, 'and look after the pigs!'So the next day she took out the pigs, and found them such good feedinggrounds that they grew fatter every day.Another year passed by, and one morning when the maiden was out with herpigs she heard a groan which sounded quite human. She ran to see whatit was, and found her old friend the lion, wounded through and through,fast dying under a tree.She fell on her knees before him and washed his wounds one by one, andlaid healing herbs upon them. And the lion licked her hands and thankedher, and asked if she would not stay and sit by him. But the girl saidshe had her pigs to watch, and she must go and see after them.So she ran to the place where she had left them, but they had vanishedas if the earth had swallowed them up. She whistled and called, but onlythe birds answered her.Then she sank down on the ground and wept bitterly, not daring to returnhome until some hours had passed away.And when she had had her cry out she got up and searched all up and downthe wood. But it was no use. there was not a sign of the pigs.At last she thought that perhaps if she climbed a tree she mightsee further. But no sooner was she seated on the highest branch thansomething happened which put the pigs quite out of her head. This was ahandsome young man who was coming down the path. and when he had almostreached the tree he pulled aside a rock and disappeared behind it.The maiden rubbed her eyes and wondered if she had been dreaming. Nextshe thought, 'I will not stir from here till I see him come out, anddiscover who he is.' Accordingly she waited, and at dawn the nextmorning the rock moved to one side and a lion came out.When he had gone quite out of sight the girl climbed down from the treeand went to the rock, which she pushed aside, and entered the openingbefore her. The path led to a beautiful house. She went in, swept anddusted the furniture, and put everything tidy. Then she ate a very gooddinner, which was on a shelf in the corner, and once more clambered upto the top of her tree.As the sun set she saw the same young man walking gaily down the path,and, as before, he pushed aside the rock and disappeared behind it.Next morning out came the lion. He looked sharply about him on allsides, but saw no one, and then vanished into the forest.The maiden then came down from the tree and did exactly as she had donethe day before. Thus three days went by, and every day she went andtidied up the palace. At length, when the girl found she was no nearerto discovering the secret, she resolved to ask him, and in the eveningwhen she caught sight of him coming through the wood she came down fromthe tree and begged him to tell her his name.The young man looked very pleased to see her, and said he thought itmust be she who had secretly kept his house for so many days. And headded that he was a prince enchanted by a powerful giant, but was onlyallowed to take his own shape at night, for all day he was forced toappear as the lion whom she had so often helped. and, more than this,it was the giant who had stolen the oxen and the asses and the pigs inrevenge for her kindness.And the girl asked him, 'What can I do to disenchant you?'But he said he was afraid it was very difficult, because the only waywas to get a lock of hair from the head of a king's daughter, to spinit, and to make from it a cloak for the giant, who lived up on the topof a high mountain.'Very well,' answered the girl, 'I will go to the city, and knock atthe door of the king's palace, and ask the princess to take me as aservant.'So they parted, and when she arrived at the city she walked about thestreets crying, 'Who will hire me for a servant? Who will hire me for aservant?' But, though many people liked her looks, for she was clean andneat, the maiden would listen to none, and still continued crying, 'Whowill hire me for a servant? Who will hire me for a servant?'At last there came the waiting maid of the princess.'What can you do?' she said. and the girl was forced to confess that shecould do very little.'Then you will have to do scullion's work, and wash up dishes,' saidshe. and they went straight back to the palace.Then the maiden dressed her hair afresh, and made herself look very neatand smart, and everyone admired and praised her, till by and bye it cameto the ears of the princess. And she sent for the girl, and when she sawher, and how beautifully she had dressed her hair, the princess told hershe was to come and comb out hers.Now the hair of the princess was very thick and long, and shone likethe sun. And the girl combed it and combed it till it was brighter thanever. And the princess was pleased, and bade her come every day and combher hair, till at length the girl took courage, and begged leave to cutoff one of the long, thick locks.The princess, who was very proud of her hair, did not like the idea ofparting with any of it, so she said no. But the girl could not giveup hope, and each day she entreated to be allowed to cut off just onetress. At length the princess lost patience, and exclaimed, 'You mayhave it, then, on condition that you shall find the handsomest prince inthe world to be my bridegroom!'And the girl answered that she would, and cut off the lock, and wove itinto a coat that glittered like silk, and brought it to the young man,who told her to carry it straight to the giant. But that she must becareful to cry out a long way off what she had with her, or else hewould spring upon her and run her through with his sword.So the maiden departed and climbed up the mountain, but before shereached the top the giant heard her footsteps, and rushed out breathingfire and flame, having a sword in one hand and a club in the other. Butshe cried loudly that she had brought him the coat, and then he grewquiet, and invited her to come into his house.He tried on the coat, but it was too short, and he threw it off, anddeclared it was no use. And the girl picked it up sadly, and returnedquite in despair to the king's palace.The next morning, when she was combing the princess's hair, she beggedleave to cut off another lock. At first the princess said no, but thegirl begged so hard that at length she gave in on condition that sheshould find her a prince as bridegroom.The maiden told her that she had already found him, and spun the lockinto shining stuff, and fastened it on to the end of the coat. And whenit was finished she carried it to the giant.This time it fitted him, and he was quite pleased, and asked her whathe could give her in return. And she said that the only reward he couldgive her was to take the spell off the lion and bring him back to hisown shape.For a long time the giant would not hear of it, but in the end he gavein, and told her exactly how it must all be done. She was to kill thelion herself and cut him up very small. then she must burn him, and casthis ashes into the water, and out of the water the prince would comefree from enchantment for ever.But the maiden went away weeping, lest the giant should have deceivedher, and that after she had killed the lion she would find she had alsoslain the prince.Weeping she came down the mountain, and weeping she joined the prince,who was awaiting her at the bottom. and when he had heard her story hecomforted her, and bade her be of good courage, and to do the bidding ofthe giant.And the maiden believed what the prince told her. and in the morningwhen he put on his lion's form she took a knife and slew him, and cuthim up very small, and burnt him, and cast his ashes into the water, andout of the water came the prince, beautiful as the day, and as glad tolook upon as the sun himself.Then the young man thanked the maiden for all she had done for him, andsaid she should be his wife and none other. But the maiden only weptsore, and answered that that she could never be, for she had given herpromise to the princess when she cut off her hair that the prince shouldwed her and her only.But the prince replied, 'If it is the princess, we must go quickly. Comewith me.'So they went together to the king's palace. And when the king and queenand princess saw the young man a great joy filled their hearts, for theyknew him for the eldest son, who had long ago been enchanted by a giantand lost to them.And he asked his parents' consent that he might marry the girl who hadsaved him, and a great feast was made, and the maiden became a princess,and in due time a queen, and she richly deserved all the honoursshowered upon her.