Best known among the natural objects in various parts of Wales which are connected with the devil in popular lore, is the Devil's Bridge, in Cardiganshire. Associated with this bridge are several legends, which derive their greatest interest from their intrinsic evidences of an antiquity in common with the same legends in other lands. The guidebooks of the region, like guidebooks everywhere, in their effort to avoid being led into unwarranted statement, usually indulge in playfully sarcastic references to these ancient tales. They are much older, however, than the bridge itself can possibly be. The devil's activity in bridge building is a myth more ancient than the medieval devil of our acquaintance.The building story of the Devil's Bridge in Cardiganshire runs briefly thus: An old woman who had lost her cow spied it on the other side of the ravine, and was in great trouble about it, not knowing how to get over where the animal was. The devil, taking advantage of her distress, offered to throw a bridge over the ravine, so that she might cross and get her cow. but he stipulated that the first living creature to cross the bridge should be his.The old woman agreed. the bridge was built. and the devil waited to see her cross. She drew a crust of bread from her pocket, threw it over, and her little black dog flew after it."The dog's yours, sir," said the dame. and Satan was discomfited.In the story told of the old bridge over the Main at Frankfort, a bridge contractor and his troubles are substituted for the old woman and her cow. instead of a black dog a live rooster appears, driven in front of him by the contractor. The Welsh Satan seems to have received his discomfiture good naturedly enough. in the German tale he tears the fowl to pieces in his rage.In Switzerland, every reader knows the story told of the devil's bridge in the St. Gotthard pass. A new bridge has taken the place, for public use, of the old bridge on the road to Andermatt, and to the dangers of the crumbling masonry are added superstitious terrors concerning the devil's power to catch any one crossing after dark. The old Welsh bridge has been in like manner superseded by a modern structure. but I think no superstition like the last noted is found at Hafod.