Once upon a time there was a king who had three daughters. In hiscourtyard there was a well with wonderful clear water. One hot summer daythe oldest daughter went down and drew herself a glassful, but when sheheld it to the sun, she saw that it was cloudy. This seemed strange toher, and she was about to pour it back when a frog appeared in the water,stuck his head into the air, then jumped out onto the well's edge, saying:If you will be my sweetheart dear,Then I will give you water clear."Ugh! Who wants to be the sweetheart of an ugly frog!" exclaimed theprincess and ran away. She told her sisters about the amazing frog downat the well who was making the water cloudy. The second one was curious,so she too went down and drew herself a glassful, but it was so cloudythat she could not drink it. Once again the frog appeared at the well'sedge and said:If you will be my sweetheart dear,Then I will give you water clear."Not I!" said the princess, and ran away. Finally the third sister cameand drew a glassful, but it was no better than before. The frog also saidto her:If you will be my sweetheart dear,Then I will give you water clear."Why not! I'll be your sweetheart. Just give me some clean water," shesaid, while thinking, "There's no harm in this. You can promise himanything, for a stupid frog can never be your sweetheart."The frog sprang back into the water, and when she drew another glassful itwas so clear that the sun glistened in it with joy. She drank all shewanted and then took some up to her sisters, saying, "Why were you sostupid as to be afraid of a frog?"The princess did not think anything more about it until that evening aftershe had gone to bed. Before she fell asleep she heard somethingscratching at the door and a voice singing:Open up! Open up!Youngest daughter of the king.Remember that you promised meWhile I was sitting in the well,That you would be my sweetheart dear,If I would give you water clear."Ugh! That's my boyfriend the frog," said the princess. "I promised, soI will have to open the door for him." She got up, opened the door acrack, and went back to bed. The frog hopped after her, then hopped ontoher bed where he lay at her feet until the night was over and the morningdawned. Then he jumped down and disappeared out the door.The next evening, when the princess once more had just gone to bed, hescratched and sang again at the door. The princess let him in, and heagain lay at her feet until daylight came. He came again on the thirdevening, as on the two previous ones. "This is the last time that I'lllet you in," said the princess. "It will not happen again in the future."Then the frog jumped under her pillow, and the princess fell asleep. Sheawoke in the morning, thinking that the frog would hop away once again,but now a beautiful young prince was standing before her. He told herthat he had been an enchanted frog and that she had broken the spell bypromising to be his sweetheart. Then they both went to the king who gavethem his blessing, and they were married. The two other sisters wereangry with themselves that they had not taken the frog for theirsweetheart.