One time the Farmer of Ballaleece marrieda beautiful young wife, and they werethinking the world of one another. Butbefore long she disappeared. Some personssaid that she was dead and othersthat she was taken by the Little People.Ballaleece mourned for her with a heavyheart and looked for her from Point of Ayrto the Calf. but in the end, not finding her,he married another wife. This one was notbeautiful, but there was some money ather.Soon after the marriage his first wifeappeared to Ballaleece one night, and saidto him, "My man, my man, I was taken awayby the Little People, and I live with themnear to you. I can be set free if you willbut do what I tell you.""Tell me quick," said Ballaleece."We'll be riding through Ballaleecebarn at midnight on Friday," said she."We'll be going in on one door and outon another. I'll be riding behind one ofthe men on horseback. You'll sweep thebarn clean, and mind there is not one strawleft on the floor. Catch hold of my bridlerein, hold it fast, and I shall be free."When the night came Ballaleece tooka besom and swept the barn floor so cleanthat not one speck was left on it. Then hewaited in the dark.At midnight the barn doors opened wide,sweet music was heard, and in through theopen door came a fine company of LittlePeople, in green jackets and red caps,riding fine horses. On the last horse,sitting behind a Little Fellow, Ballaleecesaw his first wife as pretty as a picture, andas young as when she left him. He seizedhold of her bridle rein, but he was shakenfrom side to side like a leaf on a tree, andhe was not able to hold her.As she went out through the door she stretched out herright hand and pointed to a bushel in thecorner of the barn, and called out in a sadvoice, "There's been a straw put under thebushel for that reason you couldn't holdme, and you've done with me for ever!"The second wife had heard what hadpassed and had hidden the straw, andturned the bushel upside down so that itwould not be seen.The young wife was never heard of anymore.