Once upon a time there was a king who had twelve daughters, each one morebeautiful than the others. Their beds were all together in one room, andwhen they went to bed, their doors were all locked and barred, but thenext morning their shoes were always danced to pieces, and no one knewwhere they had been or how it had happened. Then the king proclaimed thatwhoever could discover where they went dancing each night could chose oneof them for his wife and become king after his death. However, anyone whoattempted this, but failed to make the discovery after three days andnights, would forfeit his life.A prince soon presented himself. He was well received, and escorted tothe anteroom to the twelve daughters' bedroom. He was given a bed there,and told to watch where they went and danced. So they would not be ableto do anything in secret, or go out to some other place, the door to theirroom was left open. But the prince fell asleep, and when he awoke thenext morning, the twelve had been dancing, for their shoes all had holesin their soles. The same thing happened the second and the third evening,and his head was chopped off. Many others came to try this risky venture,but they too all lost their lives.Now it happened that a poor soldier, who because of his wounds could nolonger serve in the army, was making his way to the city where the kinglived. He met an old woman who asked him where he was going. "I'm notsure myself," he said. "But I would like to become king and discoverwhere the princesses are dancing their shoes to pieces.""Oh," said the old woman, "that isn't so difficult. Just do not drink thewine that one of them will bring you in the evening." Then she gave him acloak and said, "Put this on, and you will be invisible, and you canfollow the twelve."Having receiving this good advice, the soldier became serious, took heart,went to the king, and announced himself as a suitor. He, like the others,was well received, and was given royal clothes to wear. That evening atbedtime he was escorted to the anteroom. Just as he was going to bed, theoldest princess brought him a goblet of wine, but he secretly poured itout. He lay down, and after a little while began to snore as if he werein the deepest sleep. The twelve princesses heard him and laughed. Theoldest one said, "He could have spared his life as well!"Then they got up, opened their wardrobes, chests, and closets, took outtheir best clothes, and made themselves beautiful in front of theirmirrors, all the time jumping about in anticipation of the dance.However, the youngest one said, "I'm not sure. You are all very happy,but I'm afraid that something bad is going to happen!""You snow goose," said the oldest one. "You are always afraid! Have youforgotten how many princes have been here for nothing. I wouldn't evenhave had to give this soldier a sleeping potion. He would never havewoken up."When they were ready, they first approached the soldier, but he did notmove at all, and as soon as they thought it was safe, the oldest one wentto her bed and knocked on it. It immediately sank beneath the floor,revealing a trapdoor. The soldier saw how they all climbed down, oneafter the other, the oldest one leading the way. He jumped up, put on thecloak, and followed immediately after the youngest one. Halfway down thestairs he stepped on her dress. Frightened, she called out, "It's notright! Something is holding my dress.""Don't be so simple," said the oldest one. "You just caught yourself on ahook."They continued until they came to a magnificent walkway between rows oftrees. Their leaves were all made of silver, and they shone andglistened. The soldier broke off a twig in order to prove where he hadbeen, and a loud cracking sound came from the tree. The youngest onecalled out again, "It's not right. Didn't you hear that sound? That hasnever happened before."The oldest one said, "That is just a joyful salute that they are firingbecause soon we will have disenchanted our princes." Then they came to awalkway where the tress were all made of gold, and finally to a third one,where they were made of clear diamonds. He broke a twig from each ofthese. The cracking sound frightened the youngest one each time, but theoldest one insisted that it was only the sounds of joyful salutes. Theycontinued on until they came to a large body of water. Twelve boats werethere, and in each boat there was a handsome prince waiting for them.Each prince took a princess into his boat. The soldier sat next to theyoungest princess, and her prince said, "I am as strong as ever, but theboat seems to be much heavier. I am rowing as hard as I can.""It must be the warm weather," said the youngest princess. "It's too hotfor me as well."On the other side of the water there was a beautiful, brightly illuminatedcastle. Joyful music, kettle drums, and trumpets sounded forth. Theyrowed over and went inside. Each prince danced with his princess. Theinvisible soldier danced along as well, and when a princess held up agoblet of wine, he drank it empty as she lifted it to her mouth. Thisalways frightened the youngest one, but the oldest one silenced her everytime. They danced there until three o'clock the next morning when theirshoes were danced to pieces and they had to stop. The princes rowed themback across the water. This time the soldier took a seat next to theoldest princess in the lead boat. They took leave from their princes onthe bank and promised to come back the next night.When they were on the steps the soldier ran ahead and got into bed. Whenthe twelve tired princesses came in slowly, he was again snoring loudly."He will be no risk to us," they said. Then they took off their beautifulclothes and put them away, placed their worn out shoes under their beds,and went to bed.The next morning the soldier said nothing, for he wanted to see theamazing thing once again. He went along the second and third nights, andeverything happened as before. Each time they danced until their shoeswere in pieces. The third time he also took along a goblet as a piece ofevidence.The hour came when he was to give his answer, and he brought the threetwigs and the goblet before the king. The twelve princesses stood behindthe door and listened to what he had to say. The king asked, "Where didmy daughters dance their shoes to pieces?"He answered, "in an underground castle with twelve princes." Then he toldthe whole story and brought forth the pieces of evidence. When they sawthat they had been betrayed, and that their denials did no good, theyadmitted everything. Then the king asked him which one he wanted for awife.He answered, "I myself am no longer young, so give me the oldest one."Their wedding was held the same day, and the kingdom was promised to himfollowing the king's death. But the princes had as many days added totheir curse as they had spent nights dancing with the twelve princesses.