There was once a farmer who was extremely poor. It happened that whenhis poverty was greatest a son was born to him, and this son was such alucky child that his father speedily became quite as rich as he was beforepoor, and obtained a great name over all the country.After a certain time the farmer thought to himself, "I must get my sonbetrothed somewhere. I was poor once, but I am now rich, and my son islucky. It is right that he should be betrothed to the daughter of somerich man like myself."It was long before he found a suitable match, but at last he betrothedthe boy to a girl who lived in a distant town. The ceremony came on, muchmoney was spent, many guests were invited, and much food was given away.In short, the betrothal was splendid.The son had scarcely grown to manhood when the father died, leaving himin the world alone.The parents of his betrothed, when they heard the sad news, felt verysorry for him, and at first they would have brought him to live at theirown house. But the mother said, "He is old enough now to come and take ourdaughter home with him, so let us send for him that he may do so. Nofriend like a good wife."A messenger was accordingly sent off, and the lad, when he received theinvitation, dressed himself up in his best, and, mounting his mare, setoff.On the way he came to a lonely jungle, in which he saw a mongoose and asnake of enormous dimensions, engaged in deadly combat. He reined up hishorse to look on. The mongoose soon began to wear out his adversary, andto inflict such wounds as would have put an end to its life in a shorttime. Seeing which, the boy considered to himself, "When two arecontending, it is an act of charity to separate them." So he tried toseparate the combatants, but every time he failed, as the mongoose againand again sprang upon his adversary in spite of him. Finding he could notprevail, he drew his sword and dealt the warlike little mongoose hisdeath blow.After this he went on again, but he had not proceeded far when he foundthat the snake had rushed round and intercepted him.Then began the boy to remonstrate. "I did you good service," said he."Why, then, have you pursued me?""It is true," answered the snake, "that you saved me from my enemy. ButI shall not let you go. I shall eat you.""Surely," replied the lad, "one good turn deserves another. Will youinjure me because I assisted you? In my country we do not deal with eachother thus.""In these parts," said the snake, "the custom is different. Everyonehere observes the rule of returning evil for good."The boy then began to argue with the snake, but he argued in vain, forthe snake was determined to eat him. At last he said, "Very well, snake,you can eat me. But first give me eight days to go about my business,after which I shall come back."With this request the snake complied, saying, "Be it so. In eight daysyou must return to me."The snake, which had coiled himself round about the boy's body, nowreleased his hold and suffered him to depart. So he rode on once more andcompleted his journey.All his friends were very glad to see the young bridegroom, andespecially his little wife, and at his father in law's house he remainedfor several days. But as he was always downcast and sad, they asked him,"Why are you so sorrowful?" For six days they asked in vain. On theseventh they spoke to their daughter, "Is he angry? What is the matterwith him" But she also asked him in vain.When the eight day came, he said, "Now let me go home." The father andmother then gave the daughter her portion, and, having placed them both ina bullock cart, they sent the young couple away.So the two traveled until they had left the village far behind them.Then said the lad to his wife and to her servants, "Return now back againto your own home. As for me, it is decreed that I shall die on theway."All the servants, being alarmed, at once returned, but his young wifesaid, "Where you fall, I shall fall. What am I to do at my house?" So shecontinued to accompany her husband.When he arrived at the spot appointed, he dismounted from his horse andcalled forth the snake."I have come," said he, "in accordance with my promise. If you wish toeat me, come and eat me now!"His wife, hearing his ominous words, descended also, and came and stoodby her husband's side. By and by a dreadful hissing sound was heard, andthe snake crawled out from the jungle, and was preparing to devour theunfortunate boy, when the girl exclaimed, "Why are you going to eat thispoor youth?"The snake then told her the whole story, how he was fighting with amongoose, and how her husband interfered and killed his adversary. "And inthis country," continued he, "our custom is to return evil for good!"The young wife now tried all the arguments she could think of to divertthe monster from his purpose, but he was deaf to her pleadings and refusedto listen to them. Then said she, "You say that in this country people doevil in return for good. This is so strange a custom, and so veryunreasonable, that I would fain know the history of it. How did it allcome about?""Do you see those five talli trees?" answered the snake. Go you to themand cry out to them, 'What is the reason that in this country folks doevil in return for good?' and see what they will say to you!"The girl went and did as she was bidden, addressing her request to themiddle of the five.The tree straightway answered her:Count us! We are now five, but once we were six   three pairs. Thesixth tree was hollow, having a vast cavity in its trunk. It happened onceupon a time, many years ago, that a certain thief went and robbed a house,and that the people followed him. He ran and ran and ran, and at last hecame in among us. It was night, but the moon was shining, and the thiefhid himself in the hollow talli tree. Hearing his pursuers close at hand,he besought the tree, saying, "O tree, tree, save me!"When the talli tree heard his miserable cry it closed up its old sidesupon him, and hid him in a safe embrace, so that the people searched forhim in vain, and they had to return without him. When all pursuit wasover, the tree once more opened and let him go.Now, in this old talli tree there was sandal wood, and the thief, whenhe went forth, had the scent of sandal wood so permanently fixed upon himthat wherever he was, and wherever he appeared, he diffused a delightfulfragrance. It so happened that he visited the city of a certain king, anda man passing him on the road suddenly stopped, and asked him, "Where didyou get this beautiful scent?""You are mistaken," answered the thief. "I have no scent.""If you will give me this scent," said the man, "I will pay you itsvalue."Again the thief answered, "I have no scent   none."Then the man, who was shrewd and intelligent, went his way to the kingand told him, "There is a stranger arrived here who possesses a mostwonderful scent. To your highness, perhaps, he might be induced to give itup."The king then ordered the thief into his presence, and said to him,"Show me the scent you have.""I have none," said he."If you will give it up to me quietly," said the king, "you shall berewarded. If not, you shall be put to death."When the thief heard this he got frightened and said, "Do not kill me,and I will tell the whole story." So he told the king how his life waspreserved in the heart of the talli tree, and how the scent of sandal woodhad never left him since.Then said the king, "Come along and show me that wonderful tree ofwhich you tell me."Arriving at this very spot, the king instantly gave orders to hisfollowers to cut the tree down and to carry it to his palace. But when thetalli tree heard his order, and when it understood the reason of it, itcried aloud, "I have saved the life of a man, and for this I am to lose myown life. For the future, therefore, let it be decreed within this junglethat whosoever dares to do good, to him it shall be repaid in evil!"The girl, having heard this doleful story, returned once more to herhusband's side."Well," said the snake, "have you consulted the talli tree? And do youfind that our custom here is even as I told you?"She was compelled to admit that it was so. But as the monster advancedto his victim, she wept and said, "What will become of me? If you must eatmy husband, you must begin by eating me!"The snake objected to an arrangement so unreasonable. "You?" cried he."But you have never done me the smallest good. You have not even done meharm. How, then, can I be expected to eat you?""But if you kill my husband," replied she, "what's left for me? Youacknowledge yourself that I have done you no good, and yet you wouldinflict this injury upon me."When the snake heard these words he stopped, and began to growremorseful, especially as she wept more copiously than ever. That the boymust be eaten was certain, but how should he comfort the girl? Wishing todevise something, he crept back to his hole, and in a few minutes hereturned with two magic globules or pills. "Here, foolish woman," said he,"take these two pills and swallow them, and you will have two sons to whomyou can devote yourself, and who will take good care of you!"The girl accepted the pills, but, with the cunning natural to a woman,said, "If I take these two pills, doubtless two sons will be born. Butwhat about my good name?"The snake, who knew not that she was already wed, hearing her speech,became exasperated with her. "Women are preposterous beings," cried he,and he crept back once more to his hole. This time he brought out two morepills, and when handing them to the disconsolate girl he said, "Revengewill sweeten your lot. When any of your neighbors revile you on account ofyour sons, take one of these pills between finger and thumb, hold it overthem, rubbing it gently so that some of the powder may fall on them, andimmediately you will see them consume away to ashes."Tying the former pills in her cloth, the girl looked at the other pillsincredulously, and then, with a sudden thought, she gently rubbed themover the snake, saying with an innocent air, "O snake, explain thismystery to me again! Is this the way I am to rub them?"The moment an atom of the magic powder had touched the snake, he wasset on fire, and in another instant he was merely a long wavy line of graydust lying on the ground.Then with a glad face the little wife turned to her husband and said,"Whosoever does good to anyone, in the end good will be done to him. Andwhosoever does evil to anyone, in the end evil will be done to him. Youdid good, and lo! you are rewarded. The snake did evil, and evil befellhim. All things help each other. The Almighty brings everything to rightsat last."After this the two went on their way to their own home, where theylived in happiness and contentment for many a year.