(WRITTEN FOR THE SCHILLER ALBUM)In the country of Wurtemburg, in Germany, where the acacias growby the public road, where the apple trees and the pear trees in autumnbend to the earth with the weight of the precious fruit, lies thelittle town of Marbach. As is often the case with many of these towns,it is charmingly situated on the banks of the river Neckar, whichrushes rapidly by, passing villages, old knights' castles, and greenvineyards, till its waters mingle with those of the stately Rhine.It was late in the autumn. the vine leaves still hung upon thebranches of the vines, but they were already tinted with red and gold.heavy showers fell on the surrounding country, and the cold autumnwind blew sharp and strong. It was not at all pleasant weather for thepoor. The days grew shorter and more gloomy, and, dark as it was outof doors in the open air, it was still darker within the small,old fashioned houses of the village. The gable end of one of thesehouses faced the street, and with its small, narrow windows, presenteda very mean appearance. The family who dwelt in it were also very poorand humble, but they treasured the fear of God in their innermosthearts. And now He was about to send them a child. It was the hourof the mother's sorrow, when there pealed forth from the churchtower the sound of festive bells. In that solemn hour the sweet andjoyous chiming filled the hearts of those in the humble dwellingwith thankfulness and trust. and when, amidst these joyous sounds, alittle son was born to them, the words of prayer and praise arose fromtheir overflowing hearts, and their happiness seemed to ring outover town and country in the liquid tones of the church bells'chime. The little one, with its bright eyes and golden hair, hadbeen welcomed joyously on that dark November day. Its parents kissedit lovingly, and the father wrote these words in the Bible, "On thetenth of November, 1759, God sent us a son." And a short time after,when the child had been baptized, the names he had received wereadded, "John Christopher Frederick."And what became of the little lad? the poor boy of the humbletown of Marbach? Ah, indeed, there was no one who thought or supposed,not even the old church bell which had been the first to sound andchime for him, that he would be the first to sing the beautiful songof "The Bell." The boy grew apace, and the world advanced with him.While he was yet a child, his parents removed from Marbach, andwent to reside in another town. but their dearest friends remainedbehind at Marbach, and therefore sometimes the mother and her sonwould start on a fine day to pay a visit to the little town. The boywas at this time about six years old, and already knew a great manystories out of the Bible, and several religious psalms. While seatedin the evening on his little cane chair, he had often heard his fatherread from Gellert's fables, and sometimes from Klopstock's grand poem,"The Messiah." He and his sister, two years older than himself, hadoften wept scalding tears over the story of Him who suffered deathon the cross for us all.On his first visit to Marbach, the town appeared to have changedbut very little, and it was not far enough away to be forgotten. Thehouse, with its pointed gable, narrow windows, overhanging walls andstories, projecting one beyond another, looked just the same as informer times. But in the churchyard there were several new graves. andthere also, in the grass, close by the wall, stood the old churchbell! It had been taken down from its high position, in consequence ofa crack in the metal which prevented it from ever chiming again, and anew bell now occupied its place. The mother and son were walking inthe churchyard when they discovered the old bell, and they stood stillto look at it. Then the mother reminded her little boy of what auseful bell this had been for many hundred years. It had chimed forweddings and for christenings. it had tolled for funerals, and to givethe alarm in case of fire. With every event in the life of man thebell had made its voice heard. His mother also told him how thechiming of that old bell had once filled her heart with joy andconfidence, and that in the midst of the sweet tones her child hadbeen given to her. And the boy gazed on the large, old bell with thedeepest interest. He bowed his head over it and kissed it, old, thrownaway, and cracked as it was, and standing there amidst the grass andnettles. The boy never forgot what his mother told him, and thetones of the old bell reverberated in his heart till he reachedmanhood. In such sweet remembrance was the old bell cherished by theboy, who grew up in poverty to be tall and slender, with a freckledcomplexion and hair almost red. but his eyes were clear and blue asthe deep sea, and what was his career to be? His career was to begood, and his future life enviable. We find him taking high honorsat the military school in the division commanded by the member of afamily high in position, and this was an honor, that is to say, goodluck. He wore gaiters, stiff collars, and powdered hair, and by thishe was recognized. and, indeed, he might be known by the word ofcommand "March! halt! front!"The old church bell had long been quite forgotten, and no oneimagined it would ever again be sent to the melting furnace to make itas it was before. No one could possibly have foretold this. Equallyimpossible would it have been to believe that the tones of the oldbell still echoed in the heart of the boy from Marbach. or that oneday they would ring out loud enough and strong enough to be heardall over the world. They had already been heard in the narrow spacebehind the school wall, even above the deafening sounds of "March!halt! front!" They had chimed so loudly in the heart of the youngster,that he had sung them to his companions, and their tones resoundedto the very borders of the country. He was not a free scholar in themilitary school, neither was he provided with clothes or food. Buthe had his number, and his own peg. for everything here was orderedlike clockwork, which we all know is of the greatest utility peopleget on so much better together when their position and duties areunderstood. It is by pressure that a jewel is stamped. The pressure ofregularity and discipline here stamped the jewel, which in thefuture the world so well knew.In the chief town of the province a great festival was beingcelebrated. The light streamed forth from thousands of lamps, andthe rockets shot upwards towards the sky, filling the air with showersof colored fiery sparks. A record of this bright display will livein the memory of man, for through it the pupil in the militaryschool was in tears and sorrow. He had dared to attempt to reachforeign territories unnoticed, and must therefore give upfatherland, mother, his dearest friends, all, or sink down into thestream of common life. The old church bell had still some comfort.it stood in the shelter of the church wall in Marbach, once soelevated, now quite forgotten. The wind roared around it, and couldhave readily related the story of its origin and of its sweetchimes, and the wind could also tell of him to whom he had broughtfresh air when, in the woods of a neighboring country, he had sunkdown exhausted with fatigue, with no other worldly possessions thanhope for the future, and a written leaf from "Fiesco." The windcould have told that his only protector was an artist, who, by readingeach leaf to him, made it plain. and that they amused themselves byplaying at nine pins together. The wind could also describe the palefugitive, who, for weeks and months, lay in a wretched littleroad side inn, where the landlord got drunk and raved, and where themerry makers had it all their own way. And he, the pale fugitive, sangof the ideal.For many heavy days and dark nights the heart must suffer toenable it to endure trial and temptation. yet, amidst it all, wouldthe minstrel sing. Dark days and cold nights also passed over theold bell, and it noticed them not. but the bell in the man's heartfelt it to be a gloomy time. What would become of this young man,and what would become of the old bell?The old bell was, after a time, carried away to a greater distancethan any one, even the warder in the bell tower, ever imagined. andthe bell in the breast of the young man was heard in countries wherehis feet had never wandered. The tones went forth over the wideocean to every part of the round world.We will now follow the career of the old bell. It was, as wehave said, carried far away from Marbach and sold as old copper.then sent to Bavaria to be melted down in a furnace. And then whathappened?In the royal city of Bavaria, many years after the bell had beenremoved from the tower and melted down, some metal was required fora monument in honor of one of the most celebrated characters which aGerman people or a German land could produce. And now we see howwonderfully things are ordered. Strange things sometimes happen inthis world.In Denmark, in one of those green islands where the foliage of thebeech woods rustles in the wind, and where many Huns' graves may beseen, was another poor boy born. He wore wooden shoes, and when hisfather worked in a ship yard, the boy, wrapped up in an old worn outshawl, carried his dinner to him every day. This poor child was nowthe pride of his country. for the sculptured marble, the work of hishands, had astonished the world. To him was offered the honor offorming from the clay, a model of the figure of him whose name,"John Christopher Frederick," had been written by his father in theBible. The bust was cast in bronze, and part of the metal used forthis purpose was the old church bell, whose tones had died away fromthe memory of those at home and elsewhere. The metal, glowing withheat, flowed into the mould, and formed the head and bust of thestatue which was unveiled in the square in front of the old castle.The statue represented in living, breathing reality, the form of himwho was born in poverty, the boy from Marbach, the pupil of themilitary school, the fugitive who struggled against poverty andoppression, from the outer world. Germany's great and immortal poet,who sung of Switzerland's deliverer, William Tell, and of theheaven inspired Maid of Orleans.It was a beautiful sunny day. flags were waving from tower androof in royal Stuttgart, and the church bells were ringing a joyouspeal. One bell was silent. but it was illuminated by the brightsunshine which streamed from the head and bust of the renowned figure,of which it formed a part. On this day, just one hundred years hadpassed since the day on which the chiming of the old church bell atMarbach had filled the mother's heart with trust and joy the day onwhich her child was born in poverty, and in a humble home. the samewho, in after years, became rich, became the noble woman hearted poet,a blessing to the world the glorious, the sublime, the immortal bard,John Christoper Frederick Schiller!The Danish sculptor Thorwaldsen.