This story was told by one Laurence O'Flynn from near Swinford, in theCounty Mayo, to my friend, the late F. O'Conor, of Athlone, from whom Igot it in Irish. It is the eleventh story in the "Sgeuluidhe Gaodhalach,"and is here for the first time literally translated into English.AN CHRAOIBHIN AOIBHINN.When O'Conor was King over Ireland he was living in Rathcroghan, ofConnacht. He had one son, but he, when he grew up, was wild, and theKing could not control him, because he would have his own will ineverything.One morning he went out His hound at his foot,And his hawk on his hand,And his fine black horse to bear him and he went forward, singing a verse of a song to himself, until he cameas far as a big bush that was growing on the brink of a glen. There wasa grey old man sitting at the foot of the bush, and he said, "King'sson, if you are able to play as well as you are able to sing songs, Iwould like to play a game with you." The King's son thought that it wasa silly old man that was in it, and he alighted, threw bridle overbranch, and sat down by the side of the grey old man.The old man drew out a pack of cards and asked, "Can you play these?""I can," said the King's son."What shall we play for?" said the grey old man."Anything you wish," says the King's son."All right. if I win you must do for me anything I shall ask of you, andif you win I must do for you anything you ask of me," says the grey oldman."I'm satisfied," says the King's son.They played the game, and the King's son beat the grey old man. Then hesaid, "What would you like me to do for you, King's son?""I won't ask you to do anything for me," says the King's son. "I thinkthat you are not able to do much.""Don't mind that," said the old man. "You must ask me to do something. Inever lost a bet yet that I wasn't able to pay it."As I said, the King's son thought that it was a silly old man that wasin it, and to satisfy him he said to him, "Take the head off mystepmother and put a goat's head on her for a week.""I'll do that for you," said the grey old man. The King's son wenta riding on his horse His hound at his foot,His hawk on his hand and he faced for another place, and never thought more about the greyold man until he came home.He found a cry and great grief in the castle. The servants told him thatan enchanter had come into the room where the Queen was, and had put agoat's head on her in place of her own head."By my hand, but that's a wonderful thing," says the King's son. "If Ihad been at home I'd have whipt the head off him with my sword."There was great grief on the King, and he sent for a wise councillor,and asked him did he know how the thing happened to the Queen."Indeed, I cannot tell you that," said he. "it's a work of enchantment."The King's son did not let on that he had any knowledge of the matter,but on the morrow morning he went out His hound at his foot,His hawk on his hand,And his fine black horse to bear him and he never drew rein until he came as far as the big bush on the brinkof the glen. The grey old man was sitting there under the bush, andsaid, "King's son, will you have a game to day?" The King's son got downand said, "I will." With that he threw bridle over branch and sat downby the side of the old man. He drew out the cards and asked the King'sson did he get the thing he had won yesterday."That's all right," said the King's son."We'll play for the same bet to day," says the grey old man."I'm satisfied," said the King's son.They played the King's son won. "What would you like me to do for youthis time?" says the grey old man. The King's son thought and said tohimself, "I'll give him a hard job this time." Then he said, "There's afield of seven acres at the back of my father's castle. let it be filledto morrow morning with cows, and no two of them to be of one colour, orone height, or one age.""That shall be done," says the grey old man.The King's son went riding on his horse His hound at his foot,His hawk on his hand and faced for home. The King was sorrowful about the Queen. there weredoctors out of every place in Ireland, but they could not do her anygood.On the morning of the next day the King's herd went out early, and hesaw the field at the back of the castle filled with cows, and no two ofthem of the same colour, the same age, or the same height. He went inand told the King the wonderful news. "Go and drive them out," says theKing. The herd got men, and went with them driving out the cows, but nosooner would he put them out on one side than they would come in on theother. The herd went to the King again, and told him that all the menthat were in Ireland would not be able to put out these cows that werein the field. "They're enchanted cows," said the King.When the King's son saw the cows, he said to himself, "I'll haveanother game with the grey old man to day!" That morning he went out His hound at his foot,His hawk on his hand,And his fine black horse to bear him and he never drew rein till he came as far as the big bush on the brinkof the glen. The grey old man was there before him, and asked him wouldhe have a game of cards."I will," says the King's son. "but you know well that I can beat youplaying cards.""We'll have another game, then," says the grey old man. "Did you everplay ball?""I did, indeed," said the King's son. "but I think that you are too oldto play ball, and, besides that, we have no place here to play it.""If you're contented to play, I'll find a place," says the grey old man."I'm contented," says the King's son."Follow me," says the grey old man.The King's son followed him through the glen until he came to a finegreen hill. There he drew out a little enchanted rod, spoke some wordswhich the King's son did not understand, and after a moment the hillopened and the two went in, and they passed through a number of splendidhalls until they came out into a garden. There was everything finer thananother in that garden, and at the bottom of the garden there was aplace for playing ball. They threw up a piece of silver to see who wouldhave hand in, and the grey old man got it.They began then, and the grey old man never stopped until he won out thegame. The King's son did not know what he would do. At last he asked theold man what would he desire him to do for him."I am King over the Black Desert, and you must find out myself and mydwelling place within a year and a day, or I shall find you out and youshall lose your head."Then he brought the King's son out the same way by which he went in. Thegreen hill closed behind them, and the grey old man disappeared out ofsight.The King's son went home, riding on his horse His hound at his foot,His hawk on his hand and he sorrowful enough.That evening the King observed that there was grief and great trouble onhis young son, and when he went to sleep the King and every person thatwas in the castle heard heavy sighings and ravings from him. The Kingwas in grief a goat's head to be on the Queen but he was seven timesworse when they told him the (whole) story how it happened frombeginning to end.He sent for a wise councillor, and asked him did he know where the Kingof the Black Desert was living."I do not, indeed," said he. "but as sure as there's a tail on the cat,unless the young heir finds out that enchanter he will lose his head."There was great grief that day in the castle of the King. There was agoat's head on the Queen, and the King's son was going searching for anenchanter, without knowing whether he would ever come back.After a week the goat's head was taken off the Queen, and her own headwas put upon her. When she heard of how the goat's head was put uponher, a great hate came upon her against the King's son, and she said"that he may never come back, alive or dead."Of a Monday morning he left his blessing with his father and hiskindred. his travelling bag was bound upon his shoulder, and he went His hound at his foot,His hawk on his hand,And his fine black horse to bear him.He walked that day until the sun was gone beneath the shadow of thehills and till the darkness of the night was coming, without knowingwhere he could get lodgings. He noticed a large wood on his left handside, and he drew towards it as quickly as he could, hoping to spend thenight under the shelter of the trees. He sat down at the foot of a largeoak tree, and opened his travelling bag to take some food and drink,when he saw a great eagle coming towards him."Do not be afraid of me, King's son. I know you you are the son ofO'Conor, King of Ireland. I am a friend, and if you give me your horseto give to eat to four hungry birds that I have, I shall bear youfarther than your horse would bear you, and, perhaps, I would put you onthe track of him you are looking for.""You can have the horse, and welcome," says the King's son, "althoughI'm sorrowful at parting from him.""All right, I shall be here to morrow at sunrise." With that she openedher great gob, caught hold of the horse, struck in his two sides againstone another, took wing, and disappeared out of sight.The King's son ate and drank his enough, put his travelling bag underhis head, and it was not long till he was asleep, and he never awoketill the eagle came and said, "It is time for us to be going. there is along journey before us. Take hold of your bag and leap up upon my back.""But to my grief," says he, "I must part from my hound and my hawk.""Do not be grieved," says she. "they will be here before you when youcome back."Then he leaped up on her back. She took wing, and off and away with herthrough the air. She brought him across hills and hollows, over a greatsea, and over woods, till he thought that he was at the end of theworld. When the sun was going under the shadow of the hills, she came toearth in the midst of a great desert, and said to him, "Follow the pathon your right hand side, and it will bring you to the house of a friend.I must return again to provide for my birds."He followed the path, and it was not long till he came to the house, andhe went in. There was a grey old man sitting in the corner. He rose andsaid, "A hundred thousand welcomes to you, King's son, from Rathcroghanof Connacht.""I have no knowledge of you," said the King's son."I was acquainted with your grandfather," said the grey old man. "Sitdown. no doubt there is hunger and thirst on you.""I'm not free from them," said the King's son.The old man then smote his two palms against one another, and twoservants came and laid a board with beef, mutton, pork, and plenty ofbread before the King's son, and the old man said to him:"Eat and drink your enough. Perhaps it may be a long time before you getthe like again."He ate and drank as much as he desired, and thanked him for it.Then the old man said, "You are going seeking for the King of the BlackDesert. Go to sleep now, and I will go through my books to see if I canfind out the dwelling place of that King." Then he smote his palmstogether, and a servant came, and he told him, "Take the King's son tohis chamber." He took him to a fine chamber, and it was not long till hefell asleep.On the morning of the next day the old man came and said:"Rise up, there is a long journey before you. You must do five hundredmiles before midday.""I could not do it," said the King's son."If you are a good rider I will give you a horse that will bring youover the journey.""I will do as you say," said the King's son.The old man gave him plenty to eat and to drink, and, when he wassatisfied, he gave him a little white garron, and said, "Give the garronhis head, and when he stops look up into the air, and you will see threeswans as white as snow. Those are the three daughters of the King of theBlack Desert. There will be a green napkin in the mouth of one of them:that is the youngest daughter, and there is not anyone alive except herwho could bring you to the house of the King of the Black Desert. Whenthe garron stops you will be near a lake. The three swans will come toland on the brink of that lake, and they will make three young women ofthemselves, and they will go into the lake swimming and dancing. Keepyour eye on the green napkin, and when you get the young women in thelake, go and get the napkin, and do not part with it. Go into hidingunder a tree, and when the young women will come out, two of them willmake swans of themselves, and will go away in the air. Then the youngestdaughter will say, "I will do anything for him who will give me mynapkin." Come forward then and give her the napkin, and say there isnothing you want but to bring you to her father's house, and tell heryou are a king's son from a powerful country."The King's son did everything as the old man desired him, and when hegave the napkin to the daughter of the King of the Black Desert, hesaid, "I am the son of O'Conor, King of Connaught. Bring me to yourfather. Long am I seeking him.""Would not it be better for me to do something else for you?" said she."I do not want anything else," said he."If I show you the house will you not be satisfied?" said she."I will be satisfied," said he."Now," said she, "upon your life do not tell my father that it was I whobrought you to his house, and I shall be a good friend to you. but leton," said she, "that you have great powers of enchantment.""I will do as you say," says he.Then she made a swan of herself, and said, "Leap up on my back and putyour hands under my neck, and keep a hard hold."He did so, and she shook her wings, and off and away with her over hillsand over glens, over sea and over mountains, until she came to earth asthe sun was going under. Then she said to him, "Do you see that greathouse yonder? That is my father's house. Farewell. Any time that you arein danger I shall be at your side." Then she went from him.The King's son went to the house and went in, and who should he seesitting in a golden chair but the grey old man who had played the cardsand the ball with him."King's son," said he, "I see that you have found me out before the dayand the year. How long since you left home?""This morning, when I was rising out of my bed, I saw a rainbow. I gavea leap, spread my two legs on it, and slid as far as this.""By my hand, it was a great feat you performed," said the old King."I could do a more wonderful thing than that if I chose," said theKing's son."I have three things for you to do," says the old King, "and if you areable to do them, you shall have the choice of my three daughters forwife, and unless you are able to do them, you shall lose your head, as agood many other young men have lost it before you.""Then," he said, "there be's neither eating nor drinking in my houseexcept once in the week, and we had it this morning.""It's all one to me," said the King's son. "I could fast for a month ifI were on a pinch.""No doubt you can go without sleep also," says the old King."I can, without doubt," said the King's son."You shall have a hard bed to night, then," says the old King. "Comewith me till I show it to you." He brought him out then and showed him agreat tree with a fork in it, and said, "Get up there and sleep in thefork, and be ready with the rise of the sun."He went up into the fork, but as soon as the old King was asleep theyoung daughter came and brought him into a fine room, and kept him thereuntil the old King was about to rise. Then she put him out again intothe fork of the tree.With the rise of the sun the old King came to him, and said, "Come downnow and come with me until I show you the thing that you have to doto day."He brought the King's son to the brink of a lake and showed him an oldcastle, and said to him, "Throw every stone in that castle out into theloch, and let you have it done before the sun goes down in the evening."He went away from him then.The King's son began working, but the stones were stuck to one anotherso fast that he was not able to raise one of them, and if he were to beworking until this day, there would not be one stone out of the castle.He sat down then, thinking what he ought to do, and it was not longuntil the daughter of the old King came to him and said, "What is thecause of your grief?" He told her the work which he had to do. "Let thatput no grief on you. I will do it," said she. Then she gave him bread,meat, and wine, pulled out a little enchanted rod, struck a blow on theold castle, and in a moment every stone of it was at the bottom of thelake. "Now," said she, "do not tell my father that it was I who did thework for you."When the sun was going down in the evening, the old King came and said,"I see that you have your day's work done.""I have," said the King's son. "I can do any work at all."The old King thought now that the King's son had great powers ofenchantment, and he said to him, "Your day's work for to morrow is tolift the stones out of the loch, and to set up the castle again as itwas before."He brought the King's son home, and said to him, "Go to sleep in theplace where you were last night."When the old King went to sleep the young daughter came and brought himinto the fine chamber, and kept him there till the old King was about torise in the morning. Then she put him out again in the fork of the tree.At sunrise the old King came and said, "It's time for you to get towork.""There's no hurry on me at all," says the King's son, "because I know Ican readily do my day's work."He then went to the brink of the lake, but he was not able to see astone, the water was that black. He sat down on a rock, and it was notlong until Finnuala that was the name of the old King's daughter cameto him and said, "What have you to do to day?" He told her, and shesaid, "Let there be no grief on you. I can do that work for you." Thenshe gave him bread, beef, mutton, and wine. After that she drew out thelittle enchanted rod, smote the water of the lake with it, and in amoment the old castle was set up as it had been the day before. Then shesaid to him, "On your life, don't tell my father that I did this workfor you, or that you have any knowledge of me at all."On the evening of that day the old King came and said, "I see that youhave the day's work done.""I have," said the King's son. "that was an easy done job."Then the old King thought that the King's son had more power ofenchantment than he had himself, and he said, "You have only one otherthing to do." He brought him home then, and put him to sleep in the forkof the tree, but Finnuala came and put him into the fine chamber, and inthe morning she sent him out again into the tree. At sunrise the oldKing came to him, and said, "Come with me till I show you your day'swork."He brought the King's son to a great glen, and showed him a well, andsaid, "My grandmother lost a ring in that well, and do you get it for mebefore the sun goes under this morning."Now, this well was one hundred feet deep and twenty feet round about,and it was filled with water, and there was an army out of hell watchingthe ring.When the old King went away Finnuala came and asked, "What have you todo to day?" He told her, and she said, "That is a difficult task, but Ishall do my best to save your life." Then she gave him beef, bread, andwine. Then she made a diver of herself, and went down into the well. Itwas not long till he saw smoke and lightning coming up out of the well,and he heard a sound like thunder, and anyone who would be listening tothat noise, he would think that the army of hell was fighting.At the end of a while the smoke went away, the lightning and thunderceased, and Finnuala came up with the ring. She handed the ring to theKing's son, and said, "I won the battle, and your life is saved. But,look, the little finger of my right hand is broken. But perhaps it's alucky thing that it was broken. When my father comes do not give himthe ring, but threaten him stoutly. He will bring you, then, to chooseyour wife, and this is how you shall make your choice. I and my sisterswill be in a room. there will be a hole in the door, and we shall allput our hands out in a cluster. You will put your hand through the hole,and the hand that you will keep hold of when my father will open thedoor, that is the hand of her you shall have for wife. You can know meby my broken little finger.""I can. and the love of my heart you are, Finnuala," says the King'sson.On the evening of that day the old King came and asked, "Did you get mygrandmother's ring?""I did, indeed," says the King's son. "There was an army out of hellguarding it, but I beat them. and I would beat seven times as many.Don't you know I'm a Connachtman?""Give me the ring," says the old King."Indeed, I won't give it," says he. "I fought hard for it. But do yougive me my wife. I want to be going."The old King brought him in, and said, "My three daughters are in thatroom before you. The hand of each of them is stretched out, and she onwhom you will keep your hold until I open the door, that one is yourwife."The King's son thrust his hand through the hole that was in the door,and caught hold of the hand with the broken little finger, and kept atight hold of it until the old King opened the door of the room."This is my wife," said the King's son. "Give me now your daughter'sfortune.""She has no fortune to get, but the brown slender steed to bring youhome, and that ye may never come back, alive or dead!"The King's son and Finnuala went riding on the brown slender steed, andit was not long till they came to the wood where the King's son left hishound and his hawk. They were there before him, together with his fineblack horse. He sent the brown slender steed back then. He set Finnualariding on his horse, and leaped up himself His hound at his heel,His hawk on his hand and he never stopped till he came to Rathcroghan.There was great welcome before him there, and it was not long tillhimself and Finnuala were married. They spent a long, prosperous life.But it is scarcely that even the track of this old castle is to be foundto day in Rathcroghan of Connacht.DOUGLAS HYDE.