My father was king of the city which was here situate: his name wasMamood, and he was lord of the Black Islands, and of the fourmountains. After a reign of seventy years, he died, and I succeeded tohis throne. whereupon I took as my wife the daughter of my uncle. andshe loved me excessively, so that when I absented myself from her, shewould neither eat nor drink till she saw me again. She remained under myprotection five years. After this, she went one day to the bath. and Ihad commanded the cook to prepare the supper, and entered this palace,and slept in my usual place. I had ordered two maids to fanme. and one of them sat at my head, and the other at my feet. butI was restless, because my wife was not with me. and I could not sleep.My eyes were closed, but my spirit was awake. and I heard the maid at myhead say to her at my feet, O Mes'oodeh, verily our lord isunfortunate in his youth, and what a pity is it that it should be passedwith our depraved, wicked mistress! Perdition to unfaithful wives!replied the other: but (added she) such a person as our lord, so endowedby nature, is not suited to this profligate woman, who passes everynight absent from his bed. Verily, rejoined she at my head, our lord iscareless in not making any inquiry respecting her. Wo to thee! said theother: hath our lord any knowledge of her conduct, or doth she leave himto his choice? Nay, on the contrary, she contriveth to defraud him bymeans of the cup of wine which he drinketh every night before hesleepeth, putting benj into it. in consequence of which hesleepeth so soundly that he knoweth not what happeneth, nor whither shegoeth, nor what she doeth. for, after she hath given him the wine todrink, she dresseth herself, and goeth out from him, and is absent untildaybreak, when she returneth to him, and burneth a perfume under hisnose, upon which he awaketh from his sleep.When I heard this conversation of the maids, the light became darknessbefore my face, and I was hardly conscious of the approach of night,when my cousin returned from the bath. The table was prepared, and weate, and sat a while drinking our wine as usual. I then called for thewine which I was accustomed to drink before I lay down to sleep, and shehanded to me the cup. but I turned away, and, pretending to drink it asI was wont to do, poured it into my bosom, and immediately lay down:upon which she said, Sleep on. I wish that thou wouldst never wakeagain! By Allah, I abhor thee, and abhor thy person, and my soul isweary of thy company! She then arose, and attired herself in the mostmagnificent of her apparel, and, having perfumed herself, and slung on asword, opened the door of the palace, and went out. I got upimmediately, and followed her until she had quitted the palace, andpassed through the streets of the city, and arrived at the city gates,when she pronounced some words that I understood not. whereupon thelocks fell off, and the gates opened, and she went out, I stillfollowing her, without her knowledge. Thence she proceeded to a spaceamong the mounds, and arrived at a strong edifice, in whichwas a ubbeh constructed of mud, with a door, which sheentered. I then climbed upon the roof of the ubbeh, and, looking downupon her through an aperture, saw that she was visiting a black slave,whose large lips, one of which overlapped the other, gathered up thesand from the pebbly floor, while he lay, in a filthy and wet condition,upon a few stalks of sugar cane.She kissed the ground before this slave. and he raised his head towardsher, and said, Wo to thee! Wherefore hast thou remained away until thishour? The other blacks have been here drinking wine, and each of themhas gone away with his mistress. and I refused to drink on thyaccount. She answered, O my master, and beloved of my heart, knowestthou not that I am married to my cousin, and that I abhor every man whoresembles him, and hate myself while I am in his company? If I did notfear to displease thee, I would reduce the city to ruins, so that theowl and the raven should cry in it, and would transport its stonesbeyond Mount af. Thou liest, thou infamous woman, repliedthe slave. and I swear by the generosity of the blacks (and if I speaknot truth, may our valour be as the valour of the whites), that if thouloiter as thou hast now done till this hour, I will no longer give theemy company, nor approach thy person, thou faithless one! Dost thouinconvenience me for the sake of thine own pleasure, thou filthy wretch,and vilest of the whites? When I heard (continued the King) theirwords, and witnessed what passed between them, the world became darkbefore my face, and I knew not where I was. My cousin still stoodweeping, and abasing herself before him, and said, O my beloved, andtreasure of my heart, there remaineth to me none but thee for whom Icare, and if thou cast me off, alas for me! O my beloved! O light ofmine eye! Thus she continued to weep, and to humble herself before him,until he became pacified towards her. upon which she rejoiced, andarose, and, having disrobed herself, said to him, O my master, hastthou here anything that thy maid may eat? He answered, Uncover thedough pan. it contains some cooked rats' bones: eat of them,and pick them. and take this earthen pot: thou wilt find in it somebooah to drink. So she arose, and ate and drank, and washedher hands. after which she lay down by the side of the slave, upon thestalks of sugar cane, and covered herself with his tattered clothes andrags.When I saw her do this, I became unconscious of my existence, and,descending from the roof of the ubbeh, entered, and took the sword fromthe side of my cousin, with the intention of killing them both. I struckthe slave upon his neck, and thought that he was killed. but the blow,which I gave with the view of severing his head, only cut the gullet andskin and flesh. and when I thought that I had killed him, he uttered aloud snore, upon which my cousin started up, and as soon as I had gone,took the sword, and returned it to its scabbard, and came back to thecity and to the palace, and lay down again in my bed, in which sheremained until the morning.On the following day, I observed that my cousin had cut off her hair,and put on the apparel of mourning. and she said to me, O mycousin, blame me not for what I do. for I have received news that mymother is dead, and that my father hath been slain in a holy war, andthat one of my two brothers hath died of a poisonous sting, and theother by the fall of a house: it is natural, therefore, that I shouldweep and mourn. On hearing these words, I abstained from upbraiding her,and said, Do what seemeth fit to thee. for I will not oppose thee.Accordingly, she continued mourning and weeping and wailing a wholeyear. after which she said to me, I have a desire to build for myself,in thy palace, a tomb, with a ubbeh, that I may repair thither alone tomourn, and I will call it the House of Lamentations. Ireplied, Do what thou seest fit. So she built for herself a house formourning, with a ubbeh in the middle of it, like the tomb of asaint. after which she removed thither the slave, and thereshe lodged him. He was in a state of excessive weakness, and unable torender her any service, though he drank wine. and from the day on whichI had wounded him, he had never spoken. yet he remained alive, becausethe appointed term of his life had not expired. My cousin every dayvisited him in this tomb early and late, to weep and mourn over him, andtook to him wine to drink, and boiled meats. and thus she continued todo, morning and evening, until the expiration of the second year, whileI patiently suffered her, till one day, I entered her apartmentunawares, and found her weeping, and slapping her face, and repeatingthese verses: I have lost my existence among mankind since your absence.for my heart loveth none but you.Take my body, then, in mercy, to the place where you are laid.and there bury me by your side:And if, at my grave, you utter my name, the moaning of my bonesshall answer to your call.As soon as she had finished the recitation of these verses, I said toher, holding my drawn sword in my hand, This is the language of thosefaithless women who renounce the ties of affinity, and regard not lawfulfellowship! and I was about to strike her with the sword, and hadlifted up my arm to do so, when she rose for she knew that it was I whohad wounded the slave and, standing before me, pronounced some wordswhich I understood not, and said, May God, by means of my enchantment,make thee to be half of stone, and half of the substance ofman! whereupon I became as thou seest, unable to move, neither dead noralive. and when I had been reduced to this state, she enchanted the cityand its markets and fields. The inhabitants of our city were of fourclasses. Muslims, and Christians, and Jews, and Magians. and shetransformed them into fish: the white are the Muslims. the red, theMagians. the blue, the Christians. and the yellow, the Jews. Shetransformed, also, the four islands into four mountains, and placed themaround the lake. and from that time she has continued every day totorture me, inflicting upon me a hundred lashes with a leathern whip,until the blood flows from my wounds. after which she puts on my upperhalf a vest of hair cloth, beneath these garments. Having said thus,the young man wept, and ejaculating the following verses: Give me patience, O Allah, to bear what Thou decreest! I will bepatient, if so I may obtain thine approval.I am straitened, indeed, by the calamity that hath befallen me:but the Family of the favoured Prophet shall intercedefor me!Upon this, the King, looking towards the young man, said to him, Oyouth, thou hast increased my anxiety. And where (he added) is thiswoman? The young man answered, She is in the tomb where the slave islying, in the ubbeh. and every day, before she visits him, she stripsme of my clothing, and inflicts upon me a hundred lashes with the whip,while I weep and cry out, unable to move so as to repulse her. Afterthus torturing me, she repairs early to the slave, with the wine andboiled meat. By Allah, O youth, said the King, I will do thee an act ofkindness for which I shall be remembered, and a favour which historiansshall record in a biography after me.He then sat and conversed with him until the approach of night, uponwhich he arose, and waited till the first dawn of day, when he took offhis clothes, and slung on his sword, and went to the place where theslave lay. After remarking the candles and lamps, and perfumes andointments, he approached the slave, and with a blow of his sword slewhim: he then carried him on his back, and threw him into a well which hefound in the palace, and, returning to the ubbeh, clad himself with theslave's clothes, and lay down with the drawn sword by his side. Soonafter, the vile enchantress went to her cousin, and, having pulled offhis clothes, took the whip, and beat him, while he cried, Ah! it isenough for me to be in this state! Have pity on me then! Didst thoushew pity to me, she exclaimed, and didst thou spare my lover? She thenput on him the hair cloth vest and his outer garments, and repaired tothe slave with a cup of wine, and a bowl of boiled meat. Entering thetomb, she wept and wailed, exclaiming, O my master, answer me! O mymaster, speak to me! and poured forth her lamentation in the words ofthis verse: How long shall this aversion and harshness continue? Sufficientis the evil which my passion hath brought upon me!Then, weeping as before, she exclaimed again, O my master, answer me,and speak to me! Upon this the King, speaking in a low voice, andadapting his tongue to the pronunciation of the blacks, ejaculated, Ah!Ah! there is no strength nor power but in God! On hearing these words,she screamed with joy, and fell down in a swoon. and when she recovered,she exclaimed, Possibly my master is restored to health! The King, againlowering his voice, as if from weakness, replied, Thou profligatewretch, thou deservest not that I should address thee. Wherefore? saidshe. He answered, Because all the day long thou tormentest thy husband,while he calleth out, and imploreth the aid of God, so that thou hastprevented my sleeping from the commencement of darkness until morning:thy husband hath not ceased to humble himself, and to imprecatevengeance upon thee, till he hath distracted me. and had it not been forthis, I had recovered my strength: this it is which hath prevented myanswering thee. Then, with thy permission, she replied, I will liberatehim from his present sufferings. Liberate him, said the King, and giveus ease.She replied, I hear and obey. and immediately arose, and went out fromthe ubbeh to the palace, and, taking a cup, filled it with water, andpronounced certain words over it, upon which it began to boil like acauldron. She then sprinkled some of it upon her cousin, saying, Byvirtue of what I have uttered, be changed from thy present state to thatin which thou wast at first! and instantly he shook, and stood upon hisfeet, rejoicing in his liberation, and exclaimed, I testify that thereis no deity but God, and that Moammad is God's Apostle. God bless andsave him! She then said to him, Depart, and return not hither, or I willkill thee: and she cried out in his face: so he departed from beforeher, and she returned to the ubbeh, and said, O my master, come forthto me that I may behold thee. He replied, with a weak voice, What hastthou done? Thou hast relieved me from the branch, but hast not relievedme from the root. O my beloved, she said, and what is the root? Heanswered, The people of this city, and of the four islands: every night,at the middle hour, the fish raise their heads, and imprecate vengeanceupon me and upon thee. and this is the cause that preventeth the returnof vigour to my body. therefore, liberate them, and come, and take myhand, and raise me. for vigour hath already in part returned to me.On hearing these words of the King, whom she imagined to be the slave,she said to him with joy, O my master, on my head and my eye! In thename of Allah! and she sprang up, full of happiness, andhastened to the lake, where, taking a little of its water, shepronounced over it some unintelligible words, whereupon the fish becameagitated, and raised their heads, and immediately became converted intomen as before. Thus was the enchantment removed from the inhabitants ofthe city, and the city became repeopled, and the market streetsre erected, and every one returned to his occupation: the mountains alsobecame changed into islands as they were at the first. The enchantressthen returned immediately to the King, whom she still imagined to be theslave, and said to him, O my beloved, stretch forth thy honoured hand,that I may kiss it. Approach me, said the King in a low voice. So shedrew near to him. and he, having his keen edged sword ready in his hand,thrust it into her bosom, and the point protruded from her back: he thenstruck her again, and clove her in twain, and went forth.He found the young man who had been enchanted waiting his return, andcongratulated him on his safety. and the young prince kissed his hand,and thanked him. The King then said to him, Wilt thou remain in thycity, or come with me to my capital? O King of the age, said the youngman, dost thou know the distance that is between thee and thy city? TheKing answered, Two days and a half. O King, replied the young man, ifthou hast been asleep, awake: between thee and thy city is a distance ofa year's journey to him who travelleth with diligence. and thou camestin two days and a half only because the city was enchanted: but, O King,I will never quit thee for the twinkling of an eye. The King rejoiced athis words, and said, Praise be to God, who hath in his beneficence giventhee to me: thou art my son. for during my whole life, I have never beenblest with a son: and they embraced each other, and rejoicedexceedingly. They then went together into the palace, where the King whohad been enchanted informed the officers of his court that he was aboutto perform the holy pilgrimage: so they prepared for him everything thathe required. and he departed with the Sulan. his heart burning withreflections upon his city, because he had been deprived of the sight ofit for the space of a year.He set forth, accompanied by fifty memlooks, and providedwith presents, and they continued their journey night and day for awhole year, after which they drew near to the city of the Sulan, andthe Wezeer and the troops, who had lost all hope of his return, cameforth to meet him. The troops, approaching him, kissed the ground beforehim, and congratulated him on his safe return. and he entered the city,and sat upon the throne. He then acquainted the Wezeer with all that hadhappened to the young King. on hearing which, the Wezeer congratulatedthe latter, also, on his safety. and when all things were restored toorder, the Sulan bestowed presents upon a number of his subjects, andsaid to the Wezeer, Bring to me the fisherman who presented to me thefish. So he sent to this fisherman, who had been the cause of therestoration of the inhabitants of the enchanted city, and brought him.and the King invested him with a dress of honour, and inquired of himrespecting his circumstances, and whether he had any children. Thefisherman informed him that he had a son and two daughters. and theKing, on hearing this, took as his wife one of the daughters, and theyoung prince married the other. The King also conferred upon theson the office of treasurer. He then sent the Wezeer to the city of theyoung prince, the capital of the Black Islands, and invested him withits sovereignty, despatching with him the fifty memlooks who hadaccompanied him thence, with numerous robes of honour to all the Emeers:and the Wezeer kissed his hands, and set forth on his journey. while theSulan and the young prince remained. And as to the fisherman, he becamethe wealthiest of the people of his age. and his daughters continued tobe the wives of the Kings until they died.But this (added Shahrazad) is not more wonderful than what happened tothe porter.