Once upon a time there was a king. His wife bore him only one son, andhe had not much pleasure with him, for a wicked witch had transformed himinto a wild pig. The king and queen were very sad about this, but becausethings that have happened cannot be changed, they finally came to termswith the situation. They allowed the wild pig to run about the courtyardand the palace garden, where he behaved himself very well and did no oneany harm.Not far from the king's castle there was another castle where a richlord lived who had three daughters, each one more beautiful than theothers. One day the wild pig ran off further than usual and saw the oldestdaughter as she was picking flowers in a field. She pleased him so muchthat he fell head over heels in love with her, and with all his might hewanted to marry her.The king tried to convince him, that this would not be possible, but tono avail. The wild pig would hear none of this, saying further that if shewould not become his wife then he would die of grief. So the king sentsomeone to the lord of the castle and informed him how things stood. Atfirst the lord was not very pleased with the proposal, but afterconsidering that the prince would otherwise die, he gave his consent.However, the daughter did not approve and said   to the contrary   thatshe would rather do God knows what than to have a disgusting pig for ahusband. But that did not help her, and over her objections, the kingforced her to accept, and the wedding was celebrated with the greatestpomp in the world.When it got late, and everyone was going to bed, the bride too layherself down to sleep. The wild pig wanted to lie next to her, but when hejumped into bed, he unfortunately struck her on the neck with his heavyfeet, and   she was dead. No pen can describe how sad were the wild pigand the king and the parents of the bride.One year later the wild pig ran astray once again and found the richlord's second daughter in the field. She pleased him so much that hewanted to marry her, whatever it might cost. The king made many excuses,but it was like throwing oil into the fire, and in the end there wasnothing left to do but to talk with the lord about it. He did not want tohear anything about it, and he opposed the marriage with all his power,saying that he had not raised his daughters for pigs and the like.The king reported this to his son, who insisted even more ferventlythan before. Thus the king had to force the parents to marry off theirdaughter. With tears and crying the bride was taken from her castle anddragged to the wedding. It was a sad affair, as though each of the guestscould foresee that the second bride would fare no better than had thefirst one. And that is exactly what happened, because when the bridegroomwanted to jump into bed, he hit her on the neck with his plump feet, and  she was dead.The sorrow cannot be described that ruled in the king's castle as wellas in the other castle. The wild pig was beside himself because of whathad happened, and he struck his head against the walls as if he were tiredof living. The bride's parents could not be consoled. Of three daughters,they now had only one, who was still a tender young girl, and they wereafraid of losing her as they had the others. Thus they wanted to packtheir belongings and move to a foreign country. When the king heard this,he became even sadder than before, and even angrier with his son. He askedthe rich lord to remain in his castle and promised him that he would driveaway the wild pig immediately.And he kept this promise. The poor prince was driven out of the castlewithout pity or compassion, and he ran into a nearby forest.The rich lord's third daughter was a beautiful girl, and because shewas as good as an angel, her parents no longer thought about the terribleway they had lost their other daughters.One day everyone left castle to go walking in the woods. The girl likedthe beautiful wildflowers so much that she could not pick enough of them,and the birds sang so beautifully that she could not hear them enough. Shepicked and picked, and listened and listened. Thus she fell further behindthe others until she was finally all by herself. While she sat therepicking flowers, a wild pig suddenly ran up to her, took her on his back,and ran away with her.Her father and mother called and called, and the other people lookedeverywhere, but the girl could not be found, and that evening they had toreturn to the castle without the poor girl.The wild pig did not eat her up, but instead carried her a long way offto a deep cave, where no person would dare to enter. He set the girl downquietly and gently and made a bed for her from soft moss. He ran back intothe woods and returned with flowers and strawberries. In short, he dideverything he could to please the girl, as far as he could tell from hereyes.Now I don't have to tell you that the wild pig was none other than theenchanted prince. The girl felt more and more at ease, and finally shebegan to stroke the wild pig's coarse bristly head with her hands. Helicked her hands and was so happy that tears ran from his eyes."Why are you crying?" asked the girl."Why should I not cry?" said the wild pig. "You could redeem me, but Iknow that you will not do so."This saddened the girl, and she herself began to cry, saying, "Oh yes,I want to redeem you, wild pig, just tell me what I have to do."The pig answered, "And what if I tell you, and you still don't do it?But I will tell you: You must take me as your husband, and marry me, andbe my wife."With that the girl laughed and jumped up and said, "If that is all Ihave to do, then I will redeem you."When the wild pig heard this he jumped up three times with joy. Then heran off and brought back enough soft green moss to make a bed in whichthey could comfortably sleep together.That night the girl had an unusual dream. She thought that someone toldher to get up early the next morning and take the large pelt that shewould find next to the bed. Then she should leave the cave, close it offwith a stone, and on this stone burn the pelt to ashes. This seemed verystrange to her.At the day's first dawning she looked out of the bed and did indeed seea large pelt, like one from a wild pig, lying there. The girl tookcourage, went to the cave's entrance, and with all the power she couldmuster rolled a heavy stone that lay nearby to the entrance. Then she madea large fire, and as soon as it was burning well, she threw the pelt intoit. It had scarcely begun to burn when a pitiful crying and moaningsounded from within the cave. The girl would have liked to open the cave,but the stone had become too hot, and she would have burned her handsterribly on it. After the fire was out and the stone had cooled off alittle, she shoved the stone aside, as best she could. The most handsomeprince that one can imagine stood before her. He threw his arms around herneck and cried, "Now do you see that you have redeemed me? You are mineand I am yours, and if your two sisters had been as willing as you, thenthey would not be dead!"The prince left the cave with the girl and went to the king's castleand explained everything to him and to the queen. The girl's parents weresummoned from the other castle, and he explained everything to them. Threedays later they held the wedding with great pomp and ceremony, and one hasnever seen a more handsome bridegroom than the prince or a more beautifulbride than the girl.Not long afterward the old king died. The prince came to the throne,and the girl became his queen, and if they have not stood up from throne,then they are still seated upon it.