There was once a king and a queen. But a few years after their marriagethe queen died. At her death she placed a ring on a table, and bade theking marry whomsoever that ring should fit. It happened that theirdaughter, the princess, approached the table by chance, saw the ring, andtried it on.She then ran to the king her father, and said, "Sire, do you know that aring which I found on the table fits me as though it had been madeexpressly for me! . . ."The king, on hearing this, replied, "Oh! my daughter, you will have tomarry me, because your mother, before she died, expressed a wish that Ishould marry whoever this ring would fit."The princess, greatly distressed, shut herself up in a room which had thewindow looking into the garden, and gave vent to her grief. Soon, however,a little old woman appeared to her, and asked her, "Why do you weep, royallady?"To which the princess replied, "Well, what else can I do? My father saysthat I must marry him."The little old woman then said to her, " Listen to me, royal lady, go andtell your father that you will only marry him on condition that he buysyou a dress of the color of the stars in the heavens."And after saying this she departed. The princess then went up to the king,who asked her, "Well, my daughter, are we to be married?"To which she replied, "Well, father, I shall marry you when you bring me adress of the color of the stars in the heavens."The father, on hearing this, went out and bought her the dress, and gaveit to her readymade. The princess again went to her room to cry.The little old woman again appeared to her, and asked her, "What ails you,royal lady?"She replied, "What can ail me! My father has bought me the dress I askedhim for, and he wishes to marry me."The old lady rejoined, "Never mind, you must now ask him to bring you adress of the color of the flowers that grow in the fields."The princess again went to her father and told him that she could onlymarry him on condition of his bringing her a robe of the color of wildflowers. The king bought the dress and gave it to her made up, and quiteready to be put on. The princess, again in trouble, retired to her chamberto weep.The old lady again appeared and demanded, "What ails you, royal lady? "To which the princess replied, "What can ail me, indeed! My father hasbought me the second robe, and is determined to marry me."The good old lady rejoined, "Ask your father now for a robe of variouscolors."The princess did so, and asked for a robe of various colors, and the kingbought her the dress and brought it to her ready to be put on. Theprincess returned to her chamber to weep over her new trouble, but thelittle old woman came to her and asked her what troubled her. The princessreplied that the king had bought her the third robe she required of him,and was now determined that the marriage should take place. "And now whatshall I do to prevent it? " inquired the princess.The little old woman replied, "Royal lady, you must now send for acarpenter and order him to make you a dress of wood. get inside it and goto the palace of the king who lives yonder, who requires a servant to tendthe ducks."The princess did as she was told, had a dress made of wood, put all herjewels, and everything else she would require, inside, and getting insideit herself. and one fine day she ran away. She walked on and on until shearrived at the said palace. She knocked at the door, and told the servantsto ask his majesty the king if he required a maid to mind the ducks.He replied that he did . and he asked her what her name was, and sherejoined that her name was Maria do Pau. and after this the king sent herto tend the ducks, which were in a field next to the palace gardens. Themoment the princess reached it she took off everything she had on, and thewooden dress also. she washed herself, as she was travel stained, and thenput on the richest robe she had, which was the one the color of the stars.The king was taking a walk in the garden, and noticed a lovely maiden whowas in the field driving the ducks, and heard her repeatDucks here, ducks there,The daughter of a king tends the ducks,A thing never seen before!When she had finished saying this she killed one of the ducks. then tookoff her robes, and again got into her wooden dress. At night she wentindoors, saying, "Oh! king, I have killed one of the ducks."The king asked her, "Maria do Pau, who was that beautiful maiden sosplendidly robed that minded the ducks?"To this she said, "Indeed there was no one else there but myself indisguise."Next day the king again sent Maria do Pau to tend the ducks. And when shewas in the field she did the same thing as the day before. She took offher wooden dress, washed and combed herself carefully, put on the robe thecolor of wild flowers, and went about driving the ducks, saying as beforeDucks here, ducks there,The daughter of a king tends the ducks,A thing never seen before!After which she killed another duck. Next day she did as the day before,put on the robe of many colors, and killed another duck. In the eveningwhen she went indoors, the king said to her, "I do not wish you to takecare of the ducks any longer, for every day we find a duck has beenkilled! Now you shall remain locked up in the house. We are to have afeast which will last three days, but I promise you that you shall notenjoy it, for I shall not allow you to go to it."To this she said to the king, "Oh! my liege, do let me go."But the king replied, "No, indeed, you shall not go."On the first day of the feast she again begged of the king to allow her torepair to it, and his majesty replied, "God, preserve me! What would bethe consequences of taking Maria do Pau to the feast!"The king put on his gala robes and then sent for her to his chamber, askedher what dress she would like to put on, and the princess replied byasking him to give her a pair of boots, which the king threw at her andtook his departure for the feast.She then repaired to her chamber and removed from inside the dress made ofwool a wand she had, which the little old woman, who was a fairy, hadgiven her, and holding it up she said, "Oh! divining rod, by the virtuethat God gave you, send me here the best royal carriage, which is the veryone that took the king to the feast."The carriage was instantly in sight, and entering it she made herappearance at the feast, in the robe of the color of the stars. The king,who had his eyes continually fixed upon her, went out to the guards andtold them not to allow the maiden to pass. But when she wished to get outshe threw them a bag of money, and the guards allowed her to pass, butthey asked her to what country she belonged, to which she replied that shecame from the land of the boot.The king went home, and on arriving found the princess was already in thepalace. The king, who wished to find out whether the lovely maiden whichhe had seen at the feast could possibly be Maria do Pau, went to see ifshe was safe in her chamber, and afterwards sent for her and said to her,"Oh! Maria do Pau, do you happen to know where the land of the boot issituated?""Oh! my liege, do not come troubling me with your questions. Is itpossible that your majesty does not know where the land of the boot issituated?"The king replied, "I do not. A maiden was at the feast. I asked her whereshe came from, and she said that she came from the land of the boot, but Ido not know where that is."Next day the king again attended the feast, but before leaving he said toMaria do Pau, ''You shall not be allowed to go there.""Do allow me for once," replied she. The king then asked her to give himthe towel, and as she presented him with it he threw it at her, anddeparted for the feast.The princess repaired to her room, struck the divining rod, and put on therobe, which was the color of the wild flowers. The king who had beencharmed with her on the first day of the feast, now admired her all themore, because she appeared more beautiful than ever. He went out to theguards and told them to ask the beautiful maiden when she passed to whatcountry she belonged. and when she went out she informed them that she wasfrom the land of the towel. As soon as the king was told of this hereturned to the palace to think over, and try to guess, if possible, wherethe land of the towel could be situated. And when he arrived at the palacethe first thing he did was to ask his maid if she knew where the land ofthe towel could be found.To his inquiries she replied, "Well, well! here comes a king who does notknow, and cannot tell, where the land of the towel is situated! Neither doI know."The king now said, "Oh! Maria do Pau, every time that I have been at thefeast I have seen such a pretty maiden. If the one I saw yesterday wasbeautiful, the one of today is perfectly lovely, and much more charmingthan the first."Next day as the king was on the point of going out the princess said tohis majesty, "Oh! my liege, let me go to the feast, that I may see themaiden that is so beautiful!"The king replied, "God, preserve me! What would be the result if I were topresent you before that maiden?"After which he asked her to give him his walking stick, and as he wasgoing out he struck her with it. He went to the feast, and when there theprincess presented herself before him in the robe of many colors. If onthe previous days she appeared most beautiful, on this day of the feastshe looked perfectly ravishing, and more interesting than ever. The kingfixed his eyes upon her so as not to lose sight of her, as he wished tosee her go out, and follow her to where she lived, as it was the last dayof the feast. But the king missed seeing her depart after all, and hecould find her nowhere. He went to the guards and asked them what she hadsaid, but the guards replied that she had come from the land of thewalking stick.The king returned to the palace and inquired of his maid where the land ofthe walking stick could be found. but she replied, "Oh! my liege, that Ishould know where the land of the walking stick is situated. Does not myliege know? Neither do I."The king again asked her, "Do you really not know? Today I again saw thesame girl who is so beautiful. but I begin to think it cannot be the sameone every time, because at one time she says that she comes from the landof the boot, next time that she is from the land of the towel, and lastlyshe says she is from the land of the walking stick.The princess repaired to her room, washed and combed herself, and dressedherself in the robe she had on on the first day of the feast. The kingwent to look through the keyhole to find out why she was so long away andremained in her chamber so quiet, and also to see what she was at. He sawa lovely maiden, the same one who had appeared at the feast dressed in therobe the color of the stars in the heavens, sitting down busy with someembroidery.When the princess left her chamber to repair to the dinner table againdisguised the king said to her, "Oh! Maria do Pau, you must embroider apair of shoes for me."She replied, "Do I know how to embroider shoes?" and she left the parlorto go back to her chamber. Every day she put on one of the dresses she hadworn at the feast, and on the last day she robed herself with the one ofmany colors.The king begged her every day to embroider him a pair of shoes, and shealways returned the same answer. He had a key made to open the princess'sroom, and one day when he saw through the keyhole that she was robed inher best, he suddenly opened the door without her perceiving it andentered the chamber. The princess startled, and very much frightened,tried to run away, but the king said to her, "Do not be troubled for youshall marry me! But I wish you first to tell me your history, and why itis that you wear a wooden dress."The princess recounted all the events of her life, and the king marriedher.The king next sent for the little old woman who had given her the wand, tocome and live in the palace, but she refused to live there because she wasa fairy.