There was once a rich farmer's son who went out to woo. He had heard ofa lass who was fair and gentle, and who was both clever in the house andgood at cooking.Thither he went, for it was just such a wife he wanted.The people on the farm knew, of course, on what errand he came, so theyasked him to take a seat near to them, and they talked and chatted withhim, as the custom is, and beside offered him a drink and asked him tostop to dinner. They went in and out of the room, so the lad had time tolook about him, and over in a corner he saw a spinning wheel with thedistaff full of flax."Whose spinning wheel is that?" asked the lad."Oh, that's our daughter's," said the woman of the house."There's a deal of flax on it," said the lad. "I suppose she takes morethan a day to spin that," said he."No, not at all," said the woman. "She does it easily in one day andperhaps less than that."That was more than he had ever heard of anyone being able to spin insuch a short time.When they were going to carry in the dinner they all went out of theroom and he was left alone. He then saw an old key lying in the window,and this he took and stowed well away among the flax on the distaff. Sothey ate and drank and got on well together, and when the lad thought hehad been there long enough, he said good bye and went his way. They askedhim to come soon again, which he promised, but he did not speak of thematter he had at heart, although he liked the lass very well.Some time after, he came again to the farm, and they received him stillbetter than the first time. But just as they were chatting at their best,the farmer's wife said, "Last time you were here something very remarkablehappened. Our storehouse key disappeared all at once, and we have neverbeen able to find it since."The lad went over to the spinning wheel, which stood in the corner withjust as much flax on it as when last he was there. He put his hand inamong the flax and said, "Here is the key! Much cannot be made by thespinning when the spinning day lasts from Michaelmas (September 29) toEaster."So he said good bye, and did not speak of the matter he had at heartthat time either.