Many years ago at Gamogun, in the province of Omi, was a castle calledAdzuchi no shiro. It was a magnificent old place, surrounded by walls anda moat filled with lotus lilies. The feudal lord was a very brave andwealthy man, Yuki Naizen no jo. His wife had been dead for some years. Hehad no son. but he had a beautiful daughter aged eighteen, who (for somereason which is not quite clear to me) was given the title of Princess.For a considerable period there had been peace and quiet in the land.the feudal lords were on the best of terms, and everyone was happy. Amidthese circumstances Lord Naizen no jo perceived that there was a goodopportunity to find a husband for his daughter Princess Aya. and after atime the second son of the Lord of Ako, of Harima Province, was selected,to the satisfaction of both fathers, the affair having little to do withthe principals. Lord Ako's second son had viewed his bride with approval,and she him. One may say that young people are bound to approve each otherwhen it is the parents' wish that they be united. Many suicides resultfrom this.Princess Aya made her mind up to try and love her prospective husband.She saw nothing of him. but she thought of him, and talked of him.One evening when Princess Aya was walking in the magnificent gardens bythe moonlight, accompanied by her maids in waiting, she wandered downthrough her favorite peony bed to the pond where she loved to gaze at herreflection on the nights of the full moon, to listen to frogs, and towatch the fireflies.When nearing the pond her foot slipped, and she would have fallen intothe water had it not been that a young man appeared as if by magic andcaught her. He disappeared as soon as he had put her on her feet again.The maids of honor saw her slip. they saw a glimmer of light, and thatwas all. But Princess Aya had seen more. She had seen the handsomest youngman she could imagine."Twenty one years old," she said to O Sadayo San, her favorite maid,"he must have been   a samurai of the highest order. His dress wascovered with my favorite peonies, and his swords were richly mounted. Ohthat I could have seen him a minute longer, to thank him for saving mefrom the water! Who can he be? And how could he have got into our gardens,through all the guards?"So spoke the princess to her maids, directing them at the same timethat they were to say a word to no one, for fear that her father shouldhear, find the young man, and behead him for trespass.After this evening Princess Aya fell sick. She could not eat or sleep,and turned pale. The day for her marriage with the young Lord of Ako cameand went without the event. she was far too sick for that. The best of thedoctors had been sent from Kyoto, which was then the capital. but none ofthem had been able to do anything, and the maid grew thinner and thinner.As a last resource, the Lord Naizen no jo, her father, sent for hermost confidential maid and friend, O Sadayo, and demanded if she couldgive any reason for his daughter's mysterious sickness. Had she a secretlover? Had she a particular dislike for her betrothed?"Sir," said O Sadayo, "I do not like to tell secrets. but here it seemsmy duty to your lordship's daughter as well as to your lordship. Somethree weeks ago, when the moon was at its full, we were walking in thepeony beds down near the pond where the princess loves to be. She stumbledand nearly fell into the water, when a strange thing happened. In aninstant a most beautiful young samurai appeared and helped her up, thuspreventing her from falling into the pond. We could all see the glimmer ofhim. but your daughter and I saw him most distinctly. Before your daughtercould thank him he had disappeared. None of us could understand how it waspossible for a man to get into the gardens of the princess, for the gatesof the castle are guarded on all sides, and the princess's garden is somuch better guarded than the rest that it seems truly incredible that aman could get in. We maids were asked to say nothing for fear of yourlordship's anger. Since that evening it is that our beloved princess Ayahas been sick, sir. It is sickness of the heart. She is deeply in lovewith the young samurai she saw for so brief a space. Indeed, my lord,there never was such a handsome man in the world before, and if we cannotfind him the young princess, I fear, will die.""How is it possible for a man to get into the grounds?" said Lord YukiNaizen no jo. "People say foxes and badgers assume the figures of mensometimes. but even so it is impossible for such supernatural beings toenter my castle grounds, guarded as it is at every opening."That evening the poor princess was more wearily unhappy than everbefore. Thinking to enliven her a little, the maids sent for a celebratedplayer on the biwa, called Yashaskita Kengyo. The weather being hot, theywere sitting on the gallery (engawa). and while the musician was playing"Dannoura" there appeared suddenly from behind the peonies the samehandsome young samurai. He was visible to all this time   even thepeonies embroidered on his dress."There he is! There he is!" they cried. at which he instantlydisappeared again. The princess was highly excited, and seemed more livelythan she had been for days. the old Daimio grew more puzzled than everwhen he heard of it.Next night, while two of the maids were playing for their mistress   OYae San the flute, and O Yakumo the koto   the figure of the young manappeared again. A thorough search having been made during the day in theimmense peony beds with absolutely no result, not even the sign of afootmark, the thing was increasingly strange.A consultation was held, and it was decided by the lord of the castleto invite a veteran officer of great strength and renown, Maki Hiogo, tocapture the youth should he appear that evening. Maki Hiogo readilyconsented, and at the appointed time, dressed in black and consequentlyinvisible, concealed himself among the peonies.Music seemed to have a fascination for the young samurai. It was whilemusic was being played that he had made his appearances. Consequently, OYae and O Yakumo resumed their concert, while all gazed eagerly towardsthe peony beds. As the ladies played a piece called "Sofuren," there, sureenough, arose the figure of a young samurai, dressed magnificently inclothes which were covered with embroidered peonies.Everyone gazed at him, and wondered why Maki Hiogo did not jump up andcatch him. The fact was that Maki Hiogo was so much astonished by thenoble bearing of the youth that at first he did not want to touch him.Recovering himself, and thinking of his duty to his lord, he stealthilyapproached the young man, and, seizing him round the waist, held himtight. After a few seconds Maki Hiogo felt a kind of wet steam falling onhis face. by degrees it made him faint. and he fell to the ground, stillgrasping the young samurai, for he had made up his mind that he wouldsecure him.Everyone had seen the scuffle, and some of the guards came hurrying tothe place. Just as they reached the spot Maki Hiogo came to his senses,and shouted "Come, gentlemen! I have caught him. Come and see!" But onlooking at what he held in his arms he discovered it to be only a largepeony!By this time the Lord Naizen no jo had arrived at the spot where MakiHiogo lay, and so had the Princess Aya and her maids.All were astounded and mystified except the Daimio himself, who said"Ah! It is as I said. No fox or badger spirit could pass our guards andget into this garden. It is the spirit of the peony flower that took theform of a prince." Turning to his daughter and her maids, he said, "Youmust take this a compliment, and pay great respect to the peony, and showthe one caught by Maki Hiogo kindness as well by taking care of it."The Princess Aya carried the flower back to her room, where she put itin a vase of water and placed it near her pillow. She felt as if she hadher sweetheart with her. Day by day she got better. She tended the peonyherself, and, strange to say, the flower seemed to get stronger andstronger, instead of fading. At last the princess recovered. She becameradiantly beautiful, while the peony continued to remain in perfect bloom,showing no sign of dying.The Princess Aya being now perfectly well, her father could no longerput off the wedding. Consequently, some days later, the Lord of Ako andhis family arrived at the castle, and his second son was married to theprincess.As soon as the wedding was over the peony was found still in its vase  but dead and withered. The villagers always after this, instead ofspeaking of the Princess Aya, or Aya Hime, called her Botan Hime or PeonyPrincess.