In the city of Florence, not far from the Piazza del Granduca,runs a little street called Porta Rosa. In this street, just infront of the market place where vegetables are sold, stands a pig,made of brass and curiously formed. The bright color has beenchanged by age to dark green. but clear, fresh water pours from thesnout, which shines as if it had been polished, and so indeed ithas, for hundreds of poor people and children seize it in theirhands as they place their mouths close to the mouth of the animal,to drink. It is quite a picture to see a half naked boy clasping thewell formed creature by the head, as he presses his rosy lipsagainst its jaws. Every one who visits Florence can very quicklyfind the place. he has only to ask the first beggar he meets for theMetal Pig, and he will be told where it is.It was late on a winter evening. the mountains were covered withsnow, but the moon shone brightly, and moonlight in Italy is like adull winter's day in the north. indeed it is better, for clear airseems to raise us above the earth, while in the north a cold, gray,leaden sky appears to press us down to earth, even as the cold dampearth shall one day press on us in the grave. In the garden of thegrand duke's palace, under the roof of one of the wings, where athousand roses bloom in winter, a little ragged boy had been sittingthe whole day long. a boy, who might serve as a type of Italy,lovely and smiling, and yet still suffering. He was hungry andthirsty, yet no one gave him anything. and when it became dark, andthey were about to close the gardens, the porter turned him out. Hestood a long time musing on the bridge which crosses the Arno, andlooking at the glittering stars, reflected in the water which flowedbetween him and the elegant marble bridge Della Trinita. He thenwalked away towards the Metal Pig, half knelt down, clasped it withhis arms, and then put his mouth to the shining snout and drank deepdraughts of the fresh water. Close by, lay a few salad leaves andtwo chestnuts, which were to serve for his supper. No one was in thestreet but himself. it belonged only to him, so he boldly seatedhimself on the pig's back, leaned forward so that his curly head couldrest on the head of the animal, and, before he was aware, he fellasleep.It was midnight. The Metal Pig raised himself gently, and theboy heard him say quite distinctly, "Hold tight, little boy, for Iam going to run." and away he started for a most wonderful ride.First, they arrived at the Piazza del Granduca, and the metal horsewhich bears the duke's statue, neighed aloud. The paintedcoats of arms on the old council house shone like transparentpictures, and Michael Angelo's David tossed his sling. it was as ifeverything had life. The metallic groups of figures, among whichwere Perseus and the Rape of the Sabines, looked like livingpersons, and cries of terror sounded from them all across the noblesquare. By the Palazzo degli Uffizi, in the arcade, where the nobilityassemble for the carnival, the Metal Pig stopped. "Hold fast," saidthe animal. "hold fast, for I am going up stairs."The little boy said not a word. he was half pleased and halfafraid. They entered a long gallery, where the boy had been before.The walls were resplendent with paintings. here stood statues andbusts, all in a clear light as if it were day. But the grandestappeared when the door of a side room opened. the little boy couldremember what beautiful things he had seen there, but to nighteverything shone in its brightest colors. Here stood the figure of abeautiful woman, as beautifully sculptured as possible by one of thegreat masters. Her graceful limbs appeared to move. dolphins sprang ather feet, and immortality shone from her eyes. The world called herthe Venus de' Medici. By her side were statues, in which the spirit oflife breathed in stone. figures of men, one of whom whetted his sword,and was named the Grinder. wrestling gladiators formed anothergroup, the sword had been sharpened for them, and they strove forthe goddess of beauty. The boy was dazzled by so much glitter. for thewalls were gleaming with bright colors, all appeared living reality.As they passed from hall to hall, beauty everywhere showed itself.and as the Metal Pig went step by step from one picture to theother, the little boy could see it all plainly. One glory eclipsedanother. yet there was one picture that fixed itself on the littleboy's memory, more especially because of the happy children itrepresented, for these the little boy had seen in daylight. Manypass this picture by with indifference, and yet it contains a treasureof poetic feeling. it represents Christ descending into Hades. Theyare not the lost whom the spectator sees, but the heathen of oldentimes. The Florentine, Angiolo Bronzino, painted this picture. mostbeautiful is the expression on the face of the two children, whoappear to have full confidence that they shall reach heaven at last.They are embracing each other, and one little one stretches out hishand towards another who stands below him, and points to himself, asif he were saying, "I am going to heaven." The older people stand asif uncertain, yet hopeful, and they bow in humble adoration to theLord Jesus. On this picture the boy's eyes rested longer than on anyother: the Metal Pig stood still before it. A low sigh was heard.Did it come from the picture or from the animal? The boy raised hishands towards the smiling children, and then the Pig ran off withhim through the open vestibule."Thank you, thank you, you beautiful animal," said the little boy,caressing the Metal Pig as it ran down the steps."Thanks to yourself also," replied the Metal Pig. "I have helpedyou and you have helped me, for it is only when I have an innocentchild on my back that I receive the power to run. Yes. as you see, Ican even venture under the rays of the lamp, in front of the pictureof the Madonna, but I may not enter the church. still from without,and while you are upon my back, I may look in through the open door.Do not get down yet, for if you do, then I shall be lifeless, as youhave seen me in the Porta Rosa.""I will stay with you, my dear creature," said the little boy.So then they went on at a rapid pace through the streets ofFlorence, till they came to the square before the church of SantaCroce. The folding doors flew open, and light streamed from thealtar through the church into the deserted square. A wonderful blazeof light streamed from one of the monuments in the left side aisle,and a thousand moving stars seemed to form a glory round it. eventhe coat of arms on the tomb stone shone, and a red ladder on a bluefield gleamed like fire. It was the grave of Galileo. The monumentis unadorned, but the red ladder is an emblem of art, signifyingthat the way to glory leads up a shining ladder, on which the prophetsof mind rise to heaven, like Elias of old. In the right aisle of thechurch every statue on the richly carved sarcophagi seemed endowedwith life. Here stood Michael Angelo. there Dante, with the laurelwreath round his brow. Alfieri and Machiavelli. for here side byside rest the great men the pride of Italy. The church itself is verybeautiful, even more beautiful than the marble cathedral atFlorence, though not so large. It seemed as if the carved vestmentsstirred, and as if the marble figures they covered raised theirheads higher, to gaze upon the brightly colored glowing altar wherethe white robed boys swung the golden censers, amid music and song,while the strong fragrance of incense filled the church, andstreamed forth into the square. The boy stretched forth his handstowards the light, and at the same moment the Metal Pig startedagain so rapidly that he was obliged to cling tightly to him. The windwhistled in his ears, he heard the church door creak on its hingesas it closed, and it seemed to him as if he had lost his senses thena cold shudder passed over him, and he awoke.It was morning. the Metal Pig stood in its old place on thePorta Rosa, and the boy found he had slipped nearly off its back. Fearand trembling came upon him as he thought of his mother. she hadsent him out the day before to get some money, he had not done so, andnow he was hungry and thirsty. Once more he clasped the neck of hismetal horse, kissed its nose, and nodded farewell to it. Then hewandered away into one of the narrowest streets, where there wasscarcely room for a loaded donkey to pass. A great iron bound doorstood ajar. he passed through, and climbed up a brick staircase,with dirty walls and a rope for a balustrade, till he came to anopen gallery hung with rags. From here a flight of steps led down to acourt, where from a well water was drawn up by iron rollers to thedifferent stories of the house, and where the water buckets hungside by side. Sometimes the roller and the bucket danced in the air,splashing the water all over the court. Another broken downstaircase led from the gallery, and two Russian sailors running downit almost upset the poor boy. They were coming from their nightlycarousal. A woman not very young, with an unpleasant face and aquantity of black hair, followed them. "What have you brought home?"she asked, when she saw the boy."Don't be angry," he pleaded. "I received nothing, I havenothing at all." and he seized his mother's dress and would havekissed it. Then they went into a little room. I need not describeit, but only say that there stood in it an earthen pot with handles,made for holding fire, which in Italy is called a marito. This pot shetook in her lap, warmed her fingers, and pushed the boy with herelbow."Certainly you must have some money," she said. The boy began tocry, and then she struck him with her foot till he cried out louder."Will you be quiet? or I'll break your screaming head." and sheswung about the fire pot which she held in her hand, while the boycrouched to the earth and screamed.Then a neighbor came in, and she had also a marito under herarm. "Felicita," she said, "what are you doing to the child?""The child is mine," she answered. "I can murder him if I like,and you too, Giannina." And then she swung about the fire pot. Theother woman lifted up hers to defend herself, and the two pots clashedtogether so violently that they were dashed to pieces, and fire andashes flew about the room. The boy rushed out at the sight, spedacross the courtyard, and fled from the house. The poor child ran tillhe was quite out of breath. at last he stopped at the church, thedoors of which were opened to him the night before, and went in.Here everything was bright, and the boy knelt down by the first tombon his right, the grave of Michael Angelo, and sobbed as if hisheart would break. People came and went, mass was performed, but noone noticed the boy, excepting an elderly citizen, who stood still andlooked at him for a moment, and then went away like the rest. Hungerand thirst overpowered the child, and he became quite faint and ill.At last he crept into a corner behind the marble monuments, and wentto sleep. Towards evening he was awakened by a pull at his sleeve.he started up, and the same old citizen stood before him."Are you ill? where do you live? have you been here all day?" weresome of the questions asked by the old man. After hearing his answers,the old man took him home to a small house close by, in a back street.They entered a glovemaker's shop, where a woman sat sewing busily. Alittle white poodle, so closely shaven that his pink skin couldplainly be seen, frisked about the room, and gambolled upon the boy."Innocent souls are soon intimate," said the woman, as shecaressed both the boy and the dog. These good people gave the childfood and drink, and said he should stay with them all night, andthat the next day the old man, who was called Giuseppe, would go andspeak to his mother. A little homely bed was prepared for him, butto him who had so often slept on the hard stones it was a royal couch,and he slept sweetly and dreamed of the splendid pictures and of theMetal Pig. Giuseppe went out the next morning, and the poor childwas not glad to see him go, for he knew that the old man was gone tohis mother, and that, perhaps, he would have to go back. He wept atthe thought, and then he played with the little, lively dog, andkissed it, while the old woman looked kindly at him to encouragehim. And what news did Giuseppe bring back? At first the boy could nothear, for he talked a great deal to his wife, and she nodded andstroked the boy's cheek.Then she said, "He is a good lad, he shall stay with us, he maybecome a clever glovemaker, like you. Look what delicate fingers hehas got. Madonna intended him for a glovemaker." So the boy stayedwith them, and the woman herself taught him to sew. and he ate well,and slept well, and became very merry. But at last he began to teaseBellissima, as the little dog was called. This made the woman angry,and she scolded him and threatened him, which made him very unhappy,and he went and sat in his own room full of sad thoughts. This chamberlooked upon the street, in which hung skins to dry, and there werethick iron bars across his window. That night he lay awake, thinkingof the Metal Pig. indeed, it was always in his thoughts. Suddenly hefancied he heard feet outside going pit a pat. He sprung out of bedand went to the window. Could it be the Metal Pig? But there wasnothing to be seen. whatever he had heard had passed already. Nextmorning, their neighbor, the artist, passed by, carrying a paint boxand a large roll of canvas."Help the gentleman to carry his box of colors," said the woman tothe boy. and he obeyed instantly, took the box, and followed thepainter. They walked on till they reached the picture gallery, andmounted the same staircase up which he had ridden that night on theMetal Pig. He remembered all the statues and pictures, the beautifulmarble Venus, and again he looked at the Madonna with the Saviourand St. John. They stopped before the picture by Bronzino, in whichChrist is represented as standing in the lower world, with thechildren smiling before Him, in the sweet expectation of enteringheaven. and the poor boy smiled, too, for here was his heaven."You may go home now," said the painter, while the boy stoodwatching him, till he had set up his easel."May I see you paint?" asked the boy. "may I see you put thepicture on this white canvas?""I am not going to paint yet," replied the artist. then he broughtout a piece of chalk. His hand moved quickly, and his eye measured thegreat picture. and though nothing appeared but a faint line, thefigure of the Saviour was as clearly visible as in the coloredpicture."Why don't you go?" said the painter. Then the boy wandered homesilently, and seated himself on the table, and learned to sewgloves. But all day long his thoughts were in the picture gallery. andso he pricked his fingers and was awkward. But he did not teaseBellissima. When evening came, and the house door stood open, heslipped out. It was a bright, beautiful, starlight evening, but rathercold. Away he went through the already deserted streets, and soon cameto the Metal Pig. he stooped down and kissed its shining nose, andthen seated himself on its back."You happy creature," he said. "how I have longed for you! we musttake a ride to night."But the Metal Pig lay motionless, while the fresh stream gushedforth from its mouth. The little boy still sat astride on its back,when he felt something pulling at his clothes. He looked down, andthere was Bellissima, little smooth shaven Bellissima, barking as ifshe would have said, "Here I am too. why are you sitting there?"A fiery dragon could not have frightened the little boy so much asdid the little dog in this place. "Bellissima in the street, and notdressed!" as the old lady called it. "what would be the end of this?"The dog never went out in winter, unless she was attired in alittle lambskin coat which had been made for her. it was fastenedround the little dog's neck and body with red ribbons, and wasdecorated with rosettes and little bells. The dog looked almost like alittle kid when she was allowed to go out in winter, and trot afterher mistress. And now here she was in the cold, and not dressed. Oh,how would it end? All his fancies were quickly put to flight. yet hekissed the Metal Pig once more, and then took Bellissima in hisarms. The poor little thing trembled so with cold, that the boy ranhomeward as fast as he could."What are you running away with there?" asked two of the policewhom he met, and at whom the dog barked. "Where have you stolen thatpretty dog?" they asked. and they took it away from him."Oh, I have not stolen it. do give it to me back again," cried theboy, despairingly."If you have not stolen it, you may say at home that they can sendto the watch house for the dog." Then they told him where thewatch house was, and went away with Bellissima.Here was a dreadful trouble. The boy did not know whether he hadbetter jump into the Arno, or go home and confess everything. Theywould certainly kill him, he thought."Well, I would gladly be killed," he reasoned. "for then I shalldie, and go to heaven:" and so he went home, almost hoping for death.The door was locked, and he could not reach the knocker. No onewas in the street. so he took up a stone, and with it made atremendous noise at the door."Who is there?" asked somebody from within."It is I," said he. "Bellissima is gone. Open the door, and thenkill me."Then indeed there was a great panic. Madame was so very fond ofBellissima. She immediately looked at the wall where the dog's dressusually hung. and there was the little lambskin."Bellissima in the watch house!" she cried. "You bad boy! howdid you entice her out? Poor little delicate thing, with those roughpolicemen! and she'll be frozen with cold."Giuseppe went off at once, while his wife lamented, and the boywept. Several of the neighbors came in, and amongst them thepainter. He took the boy between his knees, and questioned him. and,in broken sentences, he soon heard the whole story, and also about theMetal Pig, and the wonderful ride to the picture gallery, which wascertainly rather incomprehensible. The painter, however, consoledthe little fellow, and tried to soften the lady's anger. but she wouldnot be pacified till her husband returned with Bellissima, who hadbeen with the police. Then there was great rejoicing, and thepainter caressed the boy, and gave him a number of pictures. Oh,what beautiful pictures these were! figures with funny heads. and,above all, the Metal Pig was there too. Oh, nothing could be moredelightful. By means of a few strokes, it was made to appear on thepaper. and even the house that stood behind it had been sketched in.Oh, if he could only draw and paint! He who could do this couldconjure all the world before him. The first leisure moment duringthe next day, the boy got a pencil, and on the back of one of theother drawings he attempted to copy the drawing of the Metal Pig,and he succeeded. Certainly it was rather crooked, rather up and down,one leg thick, and another thin. still it was like the copy, and hewas overjoyed at what he had done. The pencil would not go quite as itought, he had found that out. but the next day he tried again. Asecond pig was drawn by the side of the first, and this looked ahundred times better. and the third attempt was so good, thateverybody might know what it was meant to represent.And now the glovemaking went on but slowly. The orders given bythe shops in the town were not finished quickly. for the Metal Pig hadtaught the boy that all objects may be drawn upon paper. andFlorence is a picture book in itself for any one who chooses to turnover its pages. On the Piazza dell Trinita stands a slender pillar,and upon it is the goddess of Justice, blindfolded, with her scales inher hand. She was soon represented on paper, and it was theglovemaker's boy who placed her there. His collection of picturesincreased. but as yet they were only copies of lifeless objects,when one day Bellissima came gambolling before him: "Stand still,"cried he, "and I will draw you beautifully, to put amongst mycollection."But Bellissima would not stand still, so she must be bound fast inone position. He tied her head and tail. but she barked and jumped,and so pulled and tightened the string, that she was nearly strangled.and just then her mistress walked in."You wicked boy! the poor little creature!" was all she couldutter.She pushed the boy from her, thrust him away with her foot, calledhim a most ungrateful, good for nothing, wicked boy, and forbade himto enter the house again. Then she wept, and kissed her littlehalf strangled Bellissima. At this moment the painter entered theroom.In the year 1834 there was an exhibition in the Academy of Arts atFlorence. Two pictures, placed side by side, attracted a largenumber of spectators. The smaller of the two represented a littleboy sitting at a table, drawing. before him was a little white poodle,curiously shaven. but as the animal would not stand still, it had beenfastened with a string to its head and tail, to keep it in oneposition. The truthfulness and life in this picture interested everyone. The painter was said to be a young Florentine, who had been foundin the streets, when a child, by an old glovemaker, who had broughthim up. The boy had taught himself to draw: it was also said that ayoung artist, now famous, had discovered talent in the child just ashe was about to be sent away for having tied up madame's favoritelittle dog, and using it as a model. The glovemaker's boy had alsobecome a great painter, as the picture proved. but the largerpicture by its side was a still greater proof of his talent. Itrepresented a handsome boy, clothed in rags, lying asleep, and leaningagainst the Metal Pig in the street of the Porta Rosa. All thespectators knew the spot well. The child's arms were round the neck ofthe Pig, and he was in a deep sleep. The lamp before the picture ofthe Madonna threw a strong, effective light on the pale, delicate faceof the child. It was a beautiful picture. A large gilt framesurrounded it, and on one corner of the frame a laurel wreath had beenhung. but a black band, twined unseen among the green leaves, and astreamer of crape, hung down from it. for within the last few days theyoung artist had died.