(16) From the Polish. Kletke.Once upon a time there was a Glass Mountain at the top of which stooda castle made of pure gold, and in front of the castle there grew anapple tree on which there were golden apples.Anyone who picked an apple gained admittance into the golden castle, andthere in a silver room sat an enchanted Princess of surpassing fairnessand beauty. She was as rich too as she was beautiful, for the cellars ofthe castle were full of precious stones, and great chests of the finestgold stood round the walls of all the rooms.Many knights had come from afar to try their luck, but it was in vainthey attempted to climb the mountain. In spite of having their horsesshod with sharp nails, no one managed to get more than half way up, andthen they all fell back right down to the bottom of the steep slipperyhill. Sometimes they broke an arm, sometimes a leg, and many a brave manhad broken his neck even.The beautiful Princess sat at her window and watched the bold knightstrying to reach her on their splendid horses. The sight of her alwaysgave men fresh courage, and they flocked from the four quarters of theglobe to attempt the work of rescuing her. But all in vain, and forseven years the Princess had sat now and waited for some one to scalethe Glass Mountain.A heap of corpses both of riders and horses lay round the mountain, andmany dying men lay groaning there unable to go any farther with theirwounded limbs. The whole neighbourhood had the appearance of a vastchurchyard. In three more days the seven years would be at an end,when a knight in golden armour and mounted on a spirited steed was seenmaking his way towards the fatal hill.Sticking his spurs into his horse he made a rush at the mountain, andgot up half way, then he calmly turned his horse's head and came downagain without a slip or stumble. The following day he started in thesame way. the horse trod on the glass as if it had been level earth,and sparks of fire flew from its hoofs. All the other knights gazed inastonishment, for he had almost gained the summit, and in another momenthe would have reached the apple tree. but of a sudden a huge eagle roseup and spread its mighty wings, hitting as it did so the knight's horsein the eye.The beast shied, opened its wide nostrils and tossed its mane, thenrearing high up in the air, its hind feet slipped and it fell with itsrider down the steep mountain side. Nothing was left of either of themexcept their bones, which rattled in the battered golden armour like drypeas in a pod.And now there was only one more day before the close of the seven years.Then there arrived on the scene a mere schoolboy a merry, happy heartedyouth, but at the same time strong and well grown. He saw how manyknights had broken their necks in vain, but undaunted he approached thesteep mountain on foot and began the ascent.For long he had heard his parents speak of the beautiful Princess whosat in the golden castle at the top of the Glass Mountain. He listenedto all he heard, and determined that he too would try his luck. Butfirst he went to the forest and caught a lynx, and cutting off thecreature's sharp claws, he fastened them on to his own hands and feet.Armed with these weapons he boldly started up the Glass Mountain.The sun was nearly going down, and the youth had not got more thanhalf way up. He could hardly draw breath he was so worn out, and hismouth was parched by thirst. A huge black cloud passed over his head,but in vain did he beg and beseech her to let a drop of water fall onhim. He opened his mouth, but the black cloud sailed past and not asmuch as a drop of dew moistened his dry lips.His feet were torn and bleeding, and he could only hold on now with hishands. Evening closed in, and he strained his eyes to see if he couldbehold the top of the mountain. Then he gazed beneath him, and what asight met his eyes! A yawning abyss, with certain and terrible death atthe bottom, reeking with half decayed bodies of horses and riders! Andthis had been the end of all the other brave men who like himself hadattempted the ascent.It was almost pitch dark now, and only the stars lit up the GlassMountain. The poor boy still clung on as if glued to the glass by hisblood stained hands. He made no struggle to get higher, for all hisstrength had left him, and seeing no hope he calmly awaited death.Then all of a sudden he fell into a deep sleep, and forgetful of hisdangerous position, he slumbered sweetly. But all the same, although heslept, he had stuck his sharp claws so firmly into the glass that he wasquite safe not to fall.Now the golden apple tree was guarded by the eagle which had overthrownthe golden knight and his horse. Every night it flew round the GlassMountain keeping a careful look out, and no sooner had the moon emergedfrom the clouds than the bird rose up from the apple tree, and circlinground in the air, caught sight of the sleeping youth.Greedy for carrion, and sure that this must be a fresh corpse, the birdswooped down upon the boy. But he was awake now, and perceiving theeagle, he determined by its help to save himself.The eagle dug its sharp claws into the tender flesh of the youth, but hebore the pain without a sound, and seized the bird's two feet with hishands. The creature in terror lifted him high up into the air and beganto circle round the tower of the castle. The youth held on bravely. Hesaw the glittering palace, which by the pale rays of the moon lookedlike a dim lamp. and he saw the high windows, and round one of them abalcony in which the beautiful Princess sat lost in sad thoughts. Thenthe boy saw that he was close to the apple tree, and drawing a smallknife from his belt, he cut off both the eagle's feet. The bird rose upin the air in its agony and vanished into the clouds, and the youth fellon to the broad branches of the apple tree.Then he drew out the claws of the eagle's feet that had remained in hisflesh, and put the peel of one of the golden apples on the wound, andin one moment it was healed and well again. He pulled several of thebeautiful apples and put them in his pocket. then he entered the castle.The door was guarded by a great dragon, but as soon as he threw an appleat it, the beast vanished.At the same moment a gate opened, and the youth perceived a courtyardfull of flowers and beautiful trees, and on a balcony sat the lovelyenchanted Princess with her retinue.As soon as she saw the youth, she ran towards him and greeted him as herhusband and master. She gave him all her treasures, and the youth becamea rich and mighty ruler. But he never returned to the earth, for onlythe mighty eagle, who had been the guardian of the Princess and of thecastle, could have carried on his wings the enormous treasure down tothe world. But as the eagle had lost its feet it died, and its body wasfound in a wood on the Glass Mountain.. . . . . . .One day when the youth was strolling about in the palace garden with thePrincess, his wife, he looked down over the edge of the Glass Mountainand saw to his astonishment a great number of people gathered there. Heblew his silver whistle, and the swallow who acted as messenger in thegolden castle flew past.'Fly down and ask what the matter is,' he said to the little bird, whosped off like lightning and soon returned saying:'The blood of the eagle has restored all the people below to life. Allthose who have perished on this mountain are awakening up to day, asit were from a sleep, and are mounting their horses, and the wholepopulation are gazing on this unheard of wonder with joy and amazement.'