Long, long ago an old couple lived in a village, and, as they had nochildren to love and care for, they gave all their affection to a littledog. He was a pretty little creature, and instead of growing spoilt anddisagreeable at not getting everything he wanted, as even children willdo sometimes, the dog was grateful to them for their kindness, and neverleft their side, whether they were in the house or out of it.One day the old man was working in his garden, with his dog, as usual,close by. The morning was hot, and at last he put down his spade andwiped his wet forehead, noticing, as he did so, that the animal wassnuffling and scratching at a spot a little way off. There was nothingvery strange in this, as all dogs are fond of scratching, and he wenton quietly with his digging, when the dog ran up to his master, barkingloudly, and back again to the place where he had been scratching.This he did several times, till the old man wondered what could be thematter, and, picking up the spade, followed where the dog led him.The dog was so delighted at his success that he jumped round, barkingloudly, till the noise brought the old woman out of the house.Curious to know if the dog had really found anything, the husband beganto dig, and very soon the spade struck against something. He stoopeddown and pulled out a large box, filled quite full with shining goldpieces. The box was so heavy that the old woman had to help to carry ithome, and you may guess what a supper the dog had that night! Now thathe had made them rich, they gave him every day all that a dog likes bestto eat, and the cushions on which he lay were fit for a prince.The story of the dog and his treasure soon became known, and a neighbourwhose garden was next the old people's grew so envious of their goodluck that he could neither eat nor sleep. As the dog had discovered atreasure once, this foolish man thought he must be able to discover onealways, and begged the old couple to lend him their pet for a littlewhile, so that he might be made rich also.'How can you ask such a thing?' answered the old man indignantly.'You know how much we love him, and that he is never out of our sightfor five minutes.'But the envious neighbour would not heed his words, and came daily withthe same request, till at last the old people, who could not bear tosay no to anyone, promised to lend the dog, just for a night or two.No sooner did the man get hold of the dog than he turned him into thegarden, but the dog did nothing but race about, and the man was forcedto wait with what patience he could.The next morning the man opened the house door, and the dog boundedjoyfully into the garden, and, running up to the foot of a tree, beganto scratch wildly. The man called loudly to his wife to bring a spade,and followed the dog, as he longed to catch the first glimpse of theexpected treasure. But when he had dug up the ground, what did he find?Why, nothing but a parcel of old bones, which smelt so badly that hecould not stay there a moment longer. And his heart was filled with rageagainst the dog who had played him this trick, and he seized a pickaxeand killed it on the spot, before he knew what he was doing. When heremembered that he would have to go with his story to the old man andhis wife he was rather frightened, but there was nothing to be gainedby putting it off, so he pulled a very long face and went to hisneighbour's garden.'Your dog,' said he, pretending to weep, 'has suddenly fallen down dead,though I took every care of him, and gave him everything he could wishfor. And I thought I had better come straight and tell you.'Weeping bitterly, the old man went to fetch the body of his favourite,and brought it home and buried it under the fig tree where he had foundthe treasure. From morning till night he and his wife mourned over theirloss, and nothing could comfort them.At length, one night when he was asleep, he dreamt that the dog appearedto him and told him to cut down the fig tree over his grave, and out ofits wood to make a mortar. But when the old man woke and thought of hisdream he did not feel at all inclined to cut down the tree, which borewell every year, and consulted his wife about it. The woman did nothesitate a moment, and said that after what had happened before, thedog's advice must certainly be obeyed, so the tree was felled, and abeautiful mortar made from it. And when the season came for the ricecrop to be gathered the mortar was taken down from its shelf, and thegrains placed in it for pounding, when, lo and behold! in a twinkling ofan eye, they all turned into gold pieces. At the sight of all this goldthe hearts of the old people were glad, and once more they blessed theirfaithful dog.But it was not long before this story also came to the ears of theirenvious neighbour, and he lost no time in going to the old people andasking if they happened to have a mortar which they could lend him. Theold man did not at all like parting with his precious treasure, but henever could say no, so the neighbour went off with the mortar under hisarm.The moment he got into his own house he took a great handful of rice,and began to shell off the husks, with the help of his wife. But,instead of the gold pieces for which they looked, the rice turned intoberries with such a horrible smell that they were obliged to run away,after smashing the mortar in a rage and setting fire to the bits.The old people next door were naturally very much put out when theylearned the fate of their mortar, and were not at all comforted by theexplanations and excuses made by their neighbour. But that night the dogagain appeared in a dream to his master, and told him that he must goand collect the ashes of the burnt mortar and bring them home. Then,when he heard that the Daimio, or great lord to whom this part of thecountry belonged, was expected at the capital, he was to carry the ashesto the high road, through which the procession would have to pass. Andas soon as it was in sight he was to climb up all the cherry trees andsprinkle the ashes on them, and they would soon blossom as they hadnever blossomed before.This time the old man did not wait to consult his wife as to whether hewas to do what his dog had told him, but directly he got up he went tohis neighbour's house and collected the ashes of the burnt mortar. Heput them carefully in a china vase, and carried it to the high road,Sitting down on a seat till the Daimio should pass. The cherry treeswere bare, for it was the season when small pots of them were sold torich people, who kept them in hot places, so that they might blossomearly and decorate their rooms. As to the trees in the open air, no onewould ever think of looking for the tiniest bud for more than a monthyet. The old man had not been waiting very long before he saw a cloud ofdust in the far distance, and knew that it must be the procession of theDaimio. On they came, every man dressed in his finest clothes, and thecrowd that was lining the road bowed their faces to the ground as theywent by. Only the old man did not bow himself, and the great lord sawthis, and bade one of his courtiers, in anger, go and inquire why he haddisobeyed the ancient customs. But before the messenger could reach himthe old man had climbed the nearest tree and scattered his ashes far andwide, and in an instant the white flowers had flashed into life, and theheart of the Daimio rejoiced, and he gave rich presents to the old man,whom he sent for to his castle.We may be sure that in a very little while the envious neighbour hadheard this also, and his bosom was filled with hate. He hastened to theplace where he had burned the mortar, collected a few of the ashes whichthe old man had left behind, and took them to the road, hoping thathis luck might be as good as the old man's, or perhaps even better.His heart beat with pleasure when he caught the first glimpses of theDaimio's train, and he held himself ready for the right moment. As theDaimio drew near he flung a great handful of ashes over the trees, butno buds or flowers followed the action: instead, the ashes were allblown back into the eyes of the Daimio and his warriors, till they criedout from pain. Then the prince ordered the evil doer to be seized andbound and thrown into prison, where he was kept for many months. By thetime he was set free everybody in his native village had found out hiswickedness, and they would not let him live there any longer. and as hewould not leave off his evil ways he soon went from bad to worse, andcame to a miserable end.(Japanische Marchen.)