The most wonderful of the events that happened to me in my younger dayswas this: I was residing in Damascus, where I learnt and practised myart. and while I was thus occupied, one day there came to me a memlookfrom the house of the governor of the city: so I went forth with him,and accompanied him to the abode of the governor. I entered, and beheld,at the upper end of a saloon, a couch of alabaster overlaid with platesof gold, upon which was reclining a sick man: he was young. and a personmore comely had not been seen in his age. Seating myself at his head, Iejaculated a prayer for his restoration. and he made a signto me with his eye. I then said to him, O my master, stretch forth to methy hand: whereupon he put forth to me his left hand. and I wassurprised at this, and said within myself, What self conceit! I felt hispulse, however, and wrote a prescription for him, and continued to visithim for a period of ten days, until he recovered his strength. when heentered the bath, and washed himself, and came forth: and the governorconferred upon me a handsome dress of honour, and appointed mesuperintendent of the hospital of Damascus. But when I wentwith him into the bath, which they had cleared of all other visitors forus alone, and the servants had brought the clothes, and taken away thosewhich he had pulled off within, I perceived that his right hand had beencruelly amputated. at the sight of which I wondered, and grieved forhim. and looking at his skin, I observed upon him marks of beating withmira'ahs, which caused me to wonder more. The young man then turnedtowards me, and said, O doctor of the age, wonder not at my case. for Iwill relate to thee my story when we have gone out from the bath: andwhen we had gone forth, and arrived at the house, and had eaten somefood, and rested, he said to me, Hast thou a desire to divert thyself inthe supper room? I answered, Yes: and immediately he ordered the slavesto take up thither the furniture, and to roast a lamb and bring us somefruit. So the slaves did as he commanded them: and when they had broughtthe fruit, and we had eaten, I said to him, Relate to me thy story: andhe replied, O doctor of the age, listen to the relation of the eventswhich have befallen me.Know that I am of the children of El Moil. My paternal grandfather diedleaving ten male children, one of whom was my father: he was the eldestof them. and they all grew up and married. and my father was blest withme. but none of his nine brothers was blest with children. So I grew upamong my uncles, who delighted in me exceedingly. and when I hadattained to manhood, I was one day with my father in the chief mosque ofEl Moil. The day was Friday. and we performed the congregationalprayers, and all the people went out, except my father and my uncles,who sat conversing together respecting the wonders of various countries,and the strange sights of different cities, until they mentioned Egypt.when one of my uncles said, The travellers assert, that there is not onthe face of the earth a more agreeable country than Egypt with itsNile: and my father added, He who hath not seen Cairo hathnot seen the world: its soil is gold. its Nile is a wonder. its womenare like the black eyed virgins of Paradise. its houses are palaces. andits air is temperate. its odour surpassing that of aloes wood, andcheering the heart: and how can Cairo be otherwise when it is themetropolis of the world? Did ye see its gardens in theevening (he continued), with the shade obliquely extending over them, yewould behold a wonder, and yield with ecstasy to their attractions.When I heard these descriptions of Egypt, my mind became wholly engagedby reflections upon that country. and after they had departed to theirhomes, I passed the night sleepless from my excessive longing towardsit, and neither food nor drink was pleasant to me. A few days after, myuncles prepared to journey thither, and I wept before my father that Imight go with them, so that he prepared a stock of merchandise for me,and I departed in their company. but he said to them, Suffer him not toenter Egypt, but leave him at Damascus, that he may there sell hismerchandise.I took leave of my father, and we set forth from El Moil, and continuedour journey until we arrived at Aleppo, where we remained some days.after which we proceeded thence until we came to Damascus. and we beheldit to be a city with trees and rivers and fruits and birds, as though itwere a paradise, containing fruits of every kind. We took lodgings inone of the Khans, and my uncles remained there until they had sold andbought. and they also sold my merchandise, gaining, for every piece ofsilver, five, so that I rejoiced at my profit. My uncles then left me,and repaired to Egypt, and I remained, and took up my abode in ahandsome a'ah, such as the tongue cannot describe. the monthly rent ofwhich was two pieces of gold.Here I indulged myself with eating and drinking, squandering away themoney that was in my possession. and as I was sitting one day at thedoor of the a'ah, a damsel approached me, attired in clothing of therichest description, such as I had never seen surpassed in costliness,and I invited her to come in. whereupon, without hesitation, sheentered. and I was delighted at her compliance, and closed the door uponus both. She then uncovered her face, and took off her izar, and I foundher to be so surprisingly beautiful that love for her took possession ofmy heart: so I went and brought a repast consisting of the mostdelicious viands and fruit and everything else that was requisite forher entertainment, and we ate and sported together. after which, wedrank till we were intoxicated, and fell asleep, and so we remaineduntil the morning, when I handed her ten pieces of gold. but she sworethat she would not accept them from me, and said, Expect me again, O mybeloved, after three days: at the hour of sunset I will be with thee:and do thou prepare for us, with these pieces of gold, a repast similarto this which we have just enjoyed. She then gave me ten pieces of gold,and took leave of me, and departed, taking my reason with her. And afterthe three days had expired, she came again, decked with embroideredstuffs and ornaments and other attire more magnificent than those whichshe wore on the former occasion. I had prepared for her what wasrequired previously to her arrival. so we now ate and drank and fellasleep as before. and in the morning she gave me again ten pieces ofgold, promising to return to me after three more days. I therefore madeready what was requisite, and after the three days she came attired in adress still more magnificent than the first and second, and said to me,O my master, am I beautiful? Yea, verily, I answered. Wilt thou giveme leave, she rejoined, to bring with me a damsel more beautiful thanmyself, and younger than I, that she may sport with us, and we may makemerry with her? For she hath requested that she may accompany me, andpass the night in frolicking with us. And so saying, she gave me twentypieces of gold, desiring me to prepare a more plentiful repast, onaccount of the lady who was to come with her. after which, she bade mefarewell, and departed.Accordingly, on the fourth day, I procured what was requisite, as usual,and soon after sunset she came, accompanied by a female wrapped in anizar, and they entered, and seated themselves. I was rejoiced, and Ilighted the candles, and welcomed them with joy and exultation. Theythen took off their outer garments, and when the new damsel uncoveredher face, I perceived that she was like the full moon: I had neverbeheld a person more beautiful. I arose immediately, and placed beforethem the food and drink, and we ate and drank, while I continuedcaressing the new damsel, and filling the wine cup for her, and drinkingwith her: but the first lady was affected with a secret jealousy. ByAllah, she said, verily this girl is beautiful! Is she not more charmingthan I? Yea, indeed, I answered. Soon after this, I fell asleep, andwhen I awoke in the morning, I found my hand defiled with blood, and,opening my eyes, perceived that the sun had risen. so I attempted torouse the damsel, my new companion, whereupon her head rolled from herbody. The other damsel was gone, and I concluded, therefore, that shehad done this from her jealousy. and after reflecting a while, I arose,and took off my clothes, and dug a hole in the a'ah, in which Ideposited the murdered damsel, afterwards covering her remains withearth, and replacing the marble pavement as it was before. I thendressed myself again, and, taking the remainder of my money, went forth,and repaired to the owner of the a'ah, and paid him a year's rent,saying to him, I am about to journey to my uncles in Egypt.So I departed to Egypt, where I met with my uncles, and they wererejoiced to see me. I found that they had concluded the sale of theirmerchandise, and they said to me, What is the cause of thy coming? Ianswered, I had a longing desire to be with you, and feared that mymoney would not suffice me. For a year I remained with them, enjoyingthe pleasures of Egypt and its Nile. and I dipped my hand into theresidue of my money, and expended it prodigally in eating and drinkinguntil near the time of my uncles' departure, when I fled from them: sothey said, Probably, he hath gone before us, and returned toDamascus: and they departed. I then came forth from my concealment, andremained in Cairo three years, squandering away my money until scarcelyany of it remained: but meanwhile I sent every year the rent of thea'ah at Damascus to its owner: and after the three years my heartbecame contracted, for nothing remained in my possession but the rentfor the year.I therefore journeyed back to Damascus, and alighted at the a'ah. Theowner was rejoiced to see me, and I entered it, and cleansed it of theblood of the murdered damsel, and, removing a cushion, I found, beneaththis, the necklace that she had worn that night. I took it up andexamined it, and wept a while. After this I remained in the house twodays, and on the third day I entered the bath, and changed my clothes. Inow had no money left. and I went one day to the market, where (theDevil suggesting it to me, in order to accomplish the purpose ofdestiny) I handed the necklace of jewels to a broker. and he rose to me,and seated me by his side: then having waited until the market wasreplenished, he took it, and announced it for sale secretly, without myknowledge. The price bidden for it amounted to two thousand pieces ofgold. but he came to me and said, This necklace is of brass, of thecounterfeit manufacture of the Franks, and its price hath amounted to athousand pieces of silver. I answered him, Yes. we had made it for awoman, merely to laugh at her, and my wife has inherited it, and wedesire to sell it: go, therefore, and receive the thousand pieces ofsilver. Now when the broker heard this, he perceived that the affair wassuspicious, and went and gave the necklace to the chief of the market,who took it to the Walee, and said to him, This necklace was stolen fromme, and we have found the thief, clad in the dress of the sons of themerchants. And before I knew what had happened, the officers hadsurrounded me, and they took me to the Walee, who questioned merespecting the necklace. I told him, therefore, the same story that Ihad told to the broker. but he laughed, and said, This is not thetruth: and instantly his people stripped me of my outer clothing, andbeat me with mira'ahs all over my body, until, through the torture thatI suffered from the blows, I said, I stole it. reflecting that it wasbetter I should say I stole it, than confess that its owner was murderedin my abode. for then they would kill me to avenge her: and as soon as Ihad said so, they cut off my hand, and scalded the stump with boilingoil, and I swooned away. They then gave me to drink somewine, by swallowing which I recovered my senses. and I took my amputatedhand, and returned to the a'ah. but its owner said to me, Since thishath happened to thee, leave the a'ah, and look for another abode. forthou art accused of an unlawful act. O my master, I replied, give metwo or three days' delay that I may seek for a lodging: and he assentedto this, and departed and left me. So I remained alone, and sat weeping,and saying, How can I return to my family with my hand cut off? He whocut it off knoweth not that I am innocent: perhaps, then, God will bringabout some event for my relief.I sat weeping violently. and when the owner of the a'ah had departedfrom me, excessive grief overcame me, and I was sick for two days. andon the third day, suddenly the owner of the a'ah came to me, with someofficers of the police, and the chief of the market, and accused meagain of stealing the necklace. So I went out to them, and said, What isthe news? whereupon, without granting me a moment's delay, they boundmy arms behind me, and put a chain around my neck, saying to me, Thenecklace which was in thy possession hath proved to be the property ofthe governor of Damascus, its Wezeer and its Ruler: it hath been lostfrom the governor's house for a period of three years, and with it washis daughter. When I heard these words from them, my limbs trembled,and I said within myself, They will kill me! My death is inevitable! ByAllah, I must relate my story to the governor. and if he please he willkill me, or if he please he will pardon me. And when we arrived at thegovernor's abode, and they had placed me before him, and he beheld me,he said, Is this he who stole the necklace and went out to sell it?Verily ye have cut off his hand wrongfully. He then ordered that thechief of the market should be imprisoned, and said to him, Give to thisperson the compensatory fine for his hand, or I will hangthee and seize all thy property. And he called out to his attendants,who took him and dragged him away.I was now left with the governor alone, after they had, by hispermission, loosed the chain from my neck, and untied the cords whichbound my arms. and the governor, looking towards me, said to me, O myson, tell me thy story, and speak truth. How did this necklace come intothy possession? So I replied, O my lord, I will tell thee thetruth: and I related to him all that had happened to me with the firstdamsel, and how she had brought to me the second, and murdered her fromjealousy. on hearing which, he shook his head, and covered his face withhis handkerchief, and wept. Then looking towards me, he said, Know, O myson, that the elder damsel was my daughter: I kept her closely. and whenshe had attained a fit age for marriage, I sent her to the son of heruncle in Cairo. but he died, and she returned to me, having learnthabits of profligacy from the inhabitants of that city: soshe visited thee four times. and on the fourth occasion, she brought tothee her younger sister. They were sisters by the same mother, and muchattached to each other. and when the event which thou hast relatedoccurred to the elder, she imparted her secret to her sister, who askedmy permission to go out with her. after which the elder returned alone.and when I questioned her respecting her sister, I found her weepingfor her, and she answered, I know no tidings of her: but she afterwardsinformed her mother, secretly, of the murder which she had committed.and her mother privately related the affair to me. and she continued toweep for her incessantly, saying, By Allah, I will not cease to weep forher until I die. Thy account, O my son, is true. for I knew the affairbefore thou toldest it me. See then, O my son, what hath happened: andnow I request of thee that thou wilt not oppose me in that which I amabout to say. and it is this: I desire to marry thee to my youngestdaughter. for she is not of the same mother as they were: sheis a virgin, and I will receive from thee no dowry, but will assign toyou both an allowance. and thou shalt be to me as an own son. Ireplied, Let it be as thou desirest, O my master. How could I expect toattain unto such happiness? The governor then sent immediately acourier to bring the property which my father had left me (for he haddied since my departure from him), and now I am living in the utmostaffluence.I wondered, said the Jew, at his history. and after I had remained withhim three days, he gave me a large sum of money. and I left him, to setforth on a journey. and, arriving in this your country, my residencehere pleased me, and I experienced this which hath happened to me withthe humpback.The King, when he had heard this story, said, This is not more wonderfulthan the story of the humpback, and ye must all of you be hanged, andespecially the tailor, who is the source of all the mischief. But heafterwards added, O tailor, if thou tell me a story more wonderful thanthat of the humpback, I will forgive you your offences. So the tailoradvanced, and said, 