Once upon a time when a peasant was carryingwood from a forest he got tired and throwing thewood on the ground he sat down on a stone to rest.That minute he heard a cry, and someone called,"Oh, good man, take pity on me! Roll off the stoneand save my life. Free me, and I will pay you as theworld pays best!"The peasant rolled the stone away, and out of thehole a great snake crawled, wound himself into a spiral,raised up his head, and said, "Know, man, that I am Yaza!Get ready, you must die."The peasant was terribly frightened, and lamentinghe reproached the snake with ingratitude."Didn't you call for help? Haven't I saved yourlife?" asked he."Of course," replied the snake, "but I am only doingwhat I promised. I am paying you as the world paysbest."After a long discussion the snake agreed to let anothersettle the dispute, and they went together in search ofa judge. After a while they came to where an old dogwas tied to a fence."How are you, faithful guardian of a house?" askedthe peasant."As you see," replied the dog."Be so kind as to be our judge. we have a dispute."And the peasant told the whole story. "Wasn't it soand so?" asked he, turning to the snake."It was," answered the snake.The dog thought a while, then said to the man, "Myfriend, you must die, for this is just how the world paysbest. When I was young I was my master's favorite.He wore the skins of the wolves and foxes which Icaught. I guarded his house from thieves. My masterwas fond of me. When offered a carriage and horseshe refused to sell me. But now, when I am old andweak and can neither run nor bark, he has led me outhere and tied me to the fence to stay till some man killsme for my skin. This is the world's reward."The peasant, seeing that he had lost his case, beggedto look for another judge. The snake consented andthey went through forests and across fields till theycame to an old half starved horse. His head was hangingdown, his sides had fallen in, and he was coveredwith flies which he had not strength to drive away."How are you, noble beast?" asked the peasant."As you see," replied the horse.The peasant told him the story and begged him todecide for them.The horse listened patiently to the man's complaint,then decided in favor of the snake, saying, "This isthe world's reward."When I was young," said he, "I had every comfort.When I was led out of the stable every one admired me.I carried my master to war. More than once, by myswiftness, I saved his life and helped him to fame. Twomen cared for me. they curried me twice each day andgave me the best of oats and hay. My stable was likea parlor. In summer they covered me with a net thatflies might not bite me. My master wouldn't have soldme for a whole village. But when I grew old he starvedme, didn't even give me straw to eat. And now he hasled me out to this barren field to be killed by the wolves.This is how the world pays best.""What more do you want, man?" asked the snake.The peasant begged the snake to let him try a thirdand last judge. He consented and they went on till atthe edge of a forest they saw a fox, running along."Oh, Master Fox, wait and be our judge!" called thepeasant. "We have a question to decide."The fox, a cunning fellow, listened to the story, thenwinked to the peasant, and whispered, aside, "If youwill give me all of your hens I will help you out of yourtrouble.""What are hens!" said the man. "I will give you thegeese too, and if need be all I have in the world."The fox, pretending to be an impartial judge, said,"This is an important case: one of life and death. Thefirst who judged, judged lightly. In justice the casecan only be decided on the spot where everything tookplace. We will go there."When they came to the place, the fox said, "Wemust begin at the beginning. Do you, man, sit down onthe stone, and you, snake, crawl into the hole where youwere lying."When they had done as he told them, and the snakewas back in the hole, he winked at the man, and said,"Roll the stone over, quickly."The peasant didn't wait to be told twice. When thehole was covered, and the snake couldn't get out, thepeasant thanked the fox for salvation from death.The fox answered, "But do not forget that I haveearned the hens. Tomorrow before daylight, I willcome for my breakfast."The peasant went home as delighted as if he hadbeen born a second time. He told his wife what hadhappened, praised the wisdom of the fox, and addedthat he had promised him all the hens, and that the nextmorning he would come for them.The woman was glad that her husband was saved, butshe was very sorry to lose her hens.The next morning, early, she went to the windowand seeing a fox in the yard she called to her husband,"Do you hear, old man? There is a fox in the yard!""Oh, that is the fox that saved me. He has come forthe hens!""Just as if I were crazy enough to give him my hens!"cried the woman. "The Lord be praised that you arealive. but take the gun and kill the fox. You will getgood money for his pelt."The peasant obeyed his wife. He took the gun andfiring from the window killed the fox.Dying, the fox said in a mournful voice, "This is howthe world pays best."