1001 NightsThere was a man in Cairo, and he had a wife who never stopped boasting of her gentle blood, her obedience, her docility, and her fear of the Lord. Now she happened to have in the house a pair of fatted geese, and she also had a lover whom she kept in the background.One day the lover came to visit her and seeing beside her the plump birds, he felt his appetite sharpened by them, so he said to her, "My dear, you must cook these two geese with the best of stuffing so that we may make merry over them, for my mind is set upon eating goose flesh."She said, "That is easily done, my darling. I will slaughter them and stuff them, and you can take them home with you and eat them, and my pimp of a husband shall neither taste of them nor even smell them.""How can you do that?" he asked.She answered, "I will serve him a trick, and then give the geese to you, for no one is dearer to me than you are, and my pandering mate shall not get a single bite."Upon this agreement the lover went away.When her husband returned that evening she said to him, "How can you call yourself a man when you never invite anyone to your house? People surely will talk about you, saying that you are a miser and know nothing of generosity.""Woman," he said, "I can easily do this. Tomorrow morning I will buy meat and rice which you can cook for our dinner or supper, and I will invite one of my friends."She said to him, "No, instead of that buy a pound of mincemeat, then slaughter the two geese, and I will stuff them and fry them. Nothing is more savory than that to offer guests."He said, "I will do so for sure!"Early the next morning he slaughtered the geese, then went forth and bought a pound of meat, which he minced, plus rice and hot spices, and everything else that would be required.He carried these home to his wife, saying, "Finish your cooking before midday when I will bring my guest," and he went away.She cleaned out the geese, stuffed them with minced meat and a portion of rice and almonds and raisins, and fried them until they were well cooked. after which she sent for her lover. Upon his arrival they made merry together, then she gave him the geese, and he left her.At noon her husband came home accompanied by a friend.She admitted them, asking, "Why have you brought only one man? Go back out and fetch two or three more.""Good," he said, and went off to do as she had asked.Then the woman accosted the guest, crying out, "Oh the pity of it! By Allah, you are lost, and what a shame that you have no children."Now when the man heard these words he was struck with fear, and exclaimed, "Woman, what are you saying?"She replied, "In truth, my husband brought you here with the intention of gelding you to a castrato. I pity you, whether you live or die."Hearing this, the guest rushed out the door, just as the husband was returning with two more friends.The wife met him at the entrance, and said to him, "O man! Why did you bring home a fellow who is a thief and a ne'er do well?""How so?" he asked.She answered, "The man stole the two geese and ran away."Hearing this, the husband went out and caught sight of the guest running off.He shouted to him, "Come back! Come back! At least give me one, and you can keep the other."The man cried in reply, "If you catch me you'll take both of them!"The housemaster meant the two geese, but the man who was running away thought only of himself, saying to himself, "He means that he will take only one of my testes and leave me the other."So the guest kept running, with the husband following after him. Unable to catch him, he returned to his guests, and served them a simple meal of bread and such.All the while the woman kept blaming him and nagging about the matter of the geese, which she said his friend had carried off, but which in truth she had given to her lover.