Once upon a time there was a man who had a meadow which lay on the sideof a mountain, and in the meadow there was a barn in which he storedhay. But there had not been much hay in the barn for the last two years,for every St. John's eve, when the grass was in the height of its vigor,it was all eaten clean up, just as if a whole flock of sheep had gnawedit down to the ground during the night. This happened once, and ithappened twice, but then the man got tired of losing his crop, andsaid to his sons he had three of them, and the third was calledCinderlad that one of them must go and sleep in the barn on St. John'snight, for it was absurd to let the grass be eaten up again, blade andstalk, as it had been the last two years, and the one who went to watchmust keep a sharp look out, the man said.The eldest was quite willing to go to the meadow. he would watch thegrass, he said, and he would do it so well that neither man, nor beast,nor even the devil himself should have any of it. So when evening camehe went to the barn, and lay down to sleep, but when night was drawingnear there was such a rumbling and such an earthquake that the walls androof shook again, and the lad jumped up and took to his heels as fast ashe could, and never even looked back, and the barn remained empty thatyear just as it had been for the last two.Next St. John's eve the man again said that he could not go on in thisway, losing all the grass in the outlying field year after year, andthat one of his sons must just go there and watch it, and watch welltoo. So the next oldest son was willing to show what he could do. Hewent to the barn and lay down to sleep, as his brother had done. butwhen night was drawing near there was a great rumbling, and then anearthquake, which was even worse than that on the former St. John'snight, and when the youth heard it he was terrified, and went off,running as if for a wager.The year after, it was Cinderlad's turn, but when he made ready to gothe others laughed at him, and mocked him. "Well, you are just the rightone to watch the hay, you who have never learned anything but how to sitamong the ashes and bake yourself!" said they. Cinderlad, however, didnot trouble himself about what they said, but when evening drew nearrambled away to the outlying field. When he got there he went into thebarn and lay down, but in about an hour's time the rumbling and creakingbegan, and it was frightful to hear it. "Well, if it gets no worse thanthat, I can manage to stand it," thought Cinderlad. In a little timethe creaking began again, and the earth quaked so that all the hay flewabout the boy. "Oh! if it gets no worse than that I can manage to standit," thought Cinderlad. But then came a third rumbling, and a thirdearthquake, so violent that the boy thought the walls and roof hadfallen down, but when that was over everything suddenly grew as stillas death around him. "I am pretty sure that it will come again," thoughtCinderlad. but no, it did not. Everything was quiet, and everythingstayed quiet, and when he had lain still a short time he heard somethingthat sounded as if a horse were standing chewing just outside the barndoor. He stole away to the door, which was ajar, to see what was there,and a horse was standing eating. It was so big, and fat, and fine ahorse that Cinderlad had never seen one like it before, and a saddleand bridle lay upon it, and a complete suit of armor for a knight, andeverything was of copper, and so bright that it shone again. "Ha, ha! itis thou who eatest up our hay then," thought the boy. "but I will stopthat." So he made haste, and took out his steel for striking fire, andthrew it over the horse, and then it had no power to stir from the spot,and became so tame that the boy could do what he liked with it. So hemounted it and rode away to a place which no one knew of but himself,and there he tied it up. When he went home again his brothers laughedand asked how he had got on."You didn't lie long in the barn, if even you have been so far as thefield!" said they."I lay in the barn till the sun rose, but I saw nothing and heardnothing, not I," said the boy. "God knows what there was to make you twoso frightened.""Well, we shall soon see whether you have watched the meadow or not,"answered the brothers, but when they got there the grass was allstanding just as long and as thick as it had been the night before.The next St. John's eve it was the same thing, once again: neither ofthe two brothers dared to go to the outlying field to watch the crop,but Cinderlad went, and everything happened exactly the same as on theprevious St. John's eve: first there was a rumbling and an earthquake,and then there was another, and then a third: but all three earthquakeswere much, very much more violent than they had been the year before.Then everything became still as death again, and the boy heard somethingchewing outside the barn door, so he stole as softly as he could tothe door, which was slightly ajar, and again there was a horse standingclose by the wall of the house, eating and chewing, and it was farlarger and fatter than the first horse, and it had a saddle on its back,and a bridle was on it too, and a full suit of armor for a knight, allof bright silver, and as beautiful as anyone could wish to see. "Ho,ho!" thought the boy, "is it thou who eatest up our hay in the night?but I will put a stop to that." So he took out his steel for strikingfire, and threw it over the horse's mane, and the beast stood there asquiet as a lamb. Then the boy rode this horse, too, away to the placewhere he kept the other, and then went home again."I suppose you will tell us that you have watched well again this time,"said the brothers."Well, so I have," said Cinderlad. So they went there again, and therethe grass was, standing as high and as thick as it had been before, butthat did not make them any kinder to Cinderlad.When the third St. John's night came neither of the two elder brothersdared to lie in the outlying barn to watch the grass, for they had beenso heartily frightened the night that they had slept there that theycould not get over it, but Cinderlad dared to go, and everythinghappened just the same as on the two former nights. There were threeearthquakes, each worse than the other, and the last flung the boy fromone wall of the barn to the other, but then everything suddenlybecame still as death. When he had lain quietly a short time, he heardsomething chewing outside the barn door. then he once more stole to thedoor, which was slightly ajar, and behold, a horse was standing justoutside it, which was much larger and fatter than the two others he hadcaught. "Ho, ho! it is thou, then, who art eating up our hay this time,"thought the boy. "but I will put a stop to that." So he pulled out hissteel for striking fire, and threw it over the horse, and it stood asstill as if it had been nailed to the field, and the boy could do justwhat he liked with it. Then he mounted it and rode away to the placewhere he had the two others, and then he went home again. Then the twobrothers mocked him just as they had done before, and told him that theycould see that he must have watched the grass very carefully that night,for he looked just as if he were walking in his sleep. but Cinderlad didnot trouble himself about that, but just bade them go to the field andsee. They did go, and this time too the grass was standing, looking asfine and as thick as ever.The King of the country in which Cinderlad's father dwelt had a daughterwhom he would give to no one who could not ride up to the top of theglass hill, for there was a high, high hill of glass, slippery as ice,and it was close to the King's palace. Upon the very top of this theKing's daughter was to sit with three gold apples in her lap, and theman who could ride up and take the three golden apples should marry her,and have half the kingdom. The King had this proclaimed in every churchin the whole kingdom, and in many other kingdoms too. The Princess wasvery beautiful, and all who saw her fell violently in love with her,even in spite of themselves. So it is needless to say that all theprinces and knights were eager to win her, and half the kingdom besides,and that for this cause they came riding thither from the very end ofthe world, dressed so splendidly that their raiments gleamed in thesunshine, and riding on horses which seemed to dance as they went, andthere was not one of these princes who did not think that he was sure towin the Princess.When the day appointed by the King had come, there was such a host ofknights and princes under the glass hill that they seemed to swarm, andeveryone who could walk or even creep was there too, to see who won theKing's daughter. Cinderlad's two brothers were there too, but they wouldnot hear of letting him go with them, for he was so dirty and blackwith sleeping and grubbing among the ashes that they said everyone wouldlaugh at them if they were seen in the company of such an oaf."Well, then, I will go all alone by myself," said Cinderlad.When the two brothers got to the glass hill, all the princes and knightswere trying to ride up it, and their horses were in a foam. but it wasall in vain, for no sooner did the horses set foot upon the hill thandown they slipped, and there was not one which could get even so much asa couple of yards up. Nor was that strange, for the hill was as smoothas a glass window pane, and as steep as the side of a house. But theywere all eager to win the King's daughter and half the kingdom, so theyrode and they slipped, and thus it went on. At length all the horseswere so tired that they could do no more, and so hot that the foamdropped from them and the riders were forced to give up the attempt. TheKing was just thinking that he would cause it to be proclaimed that theriding should begin afresh on the following day, when perhaps it mightgo better, when suddenly a knight came riding up on so fine a horse thatno one had ever seen the like of it before, and the knight had armor ofcopper, and his bridle was of copper too, and all his accoutrements wereso bright that they shone again. The other knights all called out to himthat he might just as well spare himself the trouble of trying to rideup the glass hill, for it was of no use to try. but he did not heedthem, and rode straight off to it, and went up as if it were nothing atall. Thus he rode for a long way it may have been a third part of theway up but when he had got so far he turned his horse round and rodedown again. But the Princess thought that she had never yet seen sohandsome a knight, and while he was riding up she was sitting thinking,"Oh! how I hope he may be able to come up to the top!" And when she sawthat he was turning his horse back she threw one of the golden applesdown after him, and it rolled into his shoe. But when he had come downfrom off the hill he rode away, and that so fast that no one knew whathad become of him.So all the princes and knights were bidden to present themselves beforethe King that night, so that he who had ridden so far up the glass hillmight show the golden apple which the King's daughter had thrown down.But no one had anything to show. One knight presented himself after theother, and none could show the apple.At night, too, Cinderlad's brothers came home again and had a long storyto tell about riding up the glass hill. At first, they said, there wasnot one who was able to get even so much as one step up, but then camea knight who had armor of copper, and a bridle of copper, and his armorand trappings were so bright that they shone to a great distance, and itwas something like a sight to see him riding. He rode one third of theway up the glass hill, and he could easily have ridden the whole of itif he had liked. but he had turned back, for he had made up his mindthat that was enough for once. "Oh! I should have liked to see him too,that I should," said Cinderlad, who was as usual sitting by the chimneyamong the cinders. "You, indeed!" said the brothers, "you look as if youwere fit to be among such great lords, nasty beast that you are to sitthere!"Next day the brothers were for setting out again, and this time tooCinderlad begged them to let him go with them and see who rode. but no,they said he was not fit to do that, for he was much too ugly and dirty."Well, well, then I will go all alone by myself," said Cinderlad. So thebrothers went to the glass hill, and all the princes and knights beganto ride again, and this time they had taken care to roughen the shoes oftheir horses. but that did not help them: they rode and they slipped asthey had done the day before, and not one of them could get even so faras a yard up the hill. When they had tired out their horses, so thatthey could do no more, they again had to stop altogether. But just asthe King was thinking that it would be well to proclaim that the ridingshould take place next day for the last time, so that they might haveone more chance, he suddenly bethought himself that it would be well towait a little longer to see if the knight in copper armor would come onthis day too. But nothing was to be seen of him. Just as they were stilllooking for him, however, came a knight riding on a steed that was much,much finer than that which the knight in copper armor had ridden, andthis knight had silver armor and a silver saddle and bridle, and allwere so bright that they shone and glistened when he was a long way off.Again the other knights called to him, and said that he might just aswell give up the attempt to ride up the glass hill, for it was uselessto try. but the knight paid no heed to that, but rode straight awayto the glass hill, and went still farther up than the knight in copperarmor had gone. but when he had ridden two thirds of the way up heturned his horse around, and rode down again. The Princess liked thisknight still better than she had liked the other, and sat longing thathe might be able to get up above, and when she saw him turning back shethrew the second apple after him, and it rolled into his shoe, and assoon as he had got down the glass hill he rode away so fast that no onecould see what had become of him.In the evening, when everyone was to appear before the King andPrincess, in order that he who had the golden apple might show it, oneknight went in after the other, but none of them had a golden apple toshow.At night the two brothers went home as they had done the night before,and told how things had gone, and how everyone had ridden, but no onehad been able to get up the hill. "But last of all," they said, "cameone in silver armor, and he had a silver bridle on his horse, and asilver saddle, and oh, but he could ride! He took his horse two thirdsof the way up the hill, but then he turned back. He was a fine fellow,"said the brothers, "and the Princess threw the second golden apple tohim!""Oh, how I should have liked to see him too!" said Cinderlad."Oh, indeed! He was a little brighter than the ashes that you sitgrubbing among, you dirty black creature!" said the brothers.On the third day everything went just as on the former days. Cinderladwanted to go with them to look at the riding, but the two brothers wouldnot have him in their company, and when they got to the glass hill therewas no one who could ride even so far as a yard up it, and everyonewaited for the knight in silver armor, but he was neither to be seen norheard of. At last, after a long time, came a knight riding upon a horsethat was such a fine one, its equal had never yet been seen. The knighthad golden armor, and the horse a golden saddle and bridle, and thesewere all so bright that they shone and dazzled everyone, even while theknight was still at a great distance. The other princes and knights werenot able even to call to tell him how useless it was to try to ascendthe hill, so amazed were they at sight of his magnificence. He rodestraight away to the glass hill, and galloped up it as if it were nohill at all, so that the Princess had not even time to wish that hemight get up the whole way. As soon as he had ridden to the top, he tookthe third golden apple from the lap of the Princess and then turned hishorse about and rode down again, and vanished from their sight beforeanyone was able to say a word to him.When the two brothers came home again at night they had much to tell ofhow the riding had gone off that day, and at last they told about theknight in the golden armor too. "He was a fine fellow, that was! Suchanother splendid knight is not to be found on earth!" said the brothers."Oh, how I should have liked to see him too!" said Cinderlad."Well, he shone nearly as brightly as the coal heaps that thou artalways lying raking among, dirty black creature that thou art!" said thebrothers.Next day all the knights and princes were to appear before the King andPrincess it had been too late for them to do it the night before inorder that he who had the golden apple might produce it. They all wentin turn, first princes, and then knights, but none of them had a goldenapple."But somebody must have it," said the King, "for with our own eyes weall saw a man ride up and take it." So he commanded that everyone in thekingdom should come to the palace, and see if he could show the apple.And one after the other they all came, but no one had the golden apple,and after a long, long time Cinderlad's two brothers came likewise. Theywere the last of all, so the King inquired of them if there was no oneelse in the kingdom left to come."Oh! yes, we have a brother," said the two, "but he never got the goldenapple! He never left the cinder heap on any of the three days.""Never mind that," said the King. "as everyone else has come to thepalace, let him come too."So Cinderlad was forced to go to the King's palace."Hast thou the golden apple?" asked the King."Yes, here is the first, and here is the second, and here is the third,too," said Cinderlad, and he took all three apples out of his pocket,and with that drew off his sooty rags, and appeared there before them inhis bright golden armor, which gleamed as he stood."Thou shalt have my daughter, and the half of my kingdom, and thou hastwell earned both!" said the King. So there was a wedding, and Cinderladgot the King's daughter, and everyone made merry at the wedding, for allof them could make merry, though they could not ride up the glass hill,and if they have not left off their merry making they must be at itstill.(1)(1) Asbjornsen and Moe.