A long time ago a little town made up of a collection of low huts stoodin a tiny green valley at the foot of a cliff. Of course the people hadtaken great care to build their houses out of reach of the highest tidewhich might be driven on shore by a west wind, but on the very edge ofthe town there had sprung up a tree so large that half its boughs hungover the huts and the other half over the deep sea right under thecliff, where sharks loved to come and splash in the clear water. Thebranches of the tree itself were laden with fruit, and every day atsunrise a big grey monkey might have been seen sitting in the topmostbranches having his breakfast, and chattering to himself with delight.After he had eaten all the fruit on the town side of the tree the monkeyswung himself along the branches to the part which hung over the water.While he was looking out for a nice shady place where he might perchcomfortably he noticed a shark watching him from below with greedy eyes.'Can I do anything for you, my friend?' asked the monkey politely.'Oh! if you only would thrown me down some of those delicious things,I should be so grateful,' answered the shark. 'After you have lived onfish for fifty years you begin to feel you would like a change. And I amso very, very tired of the taste of salt.''Well, I don't like salt myself,' said the monkey. 'so if you will openyour mouth I will throw this beautiful juicy kuyu into it,' and, as hespoke, he pulled one off the branch just over his head. But it was notso easy to hit the shark's mouth as he supposed, even when the creaturehad turned on his back, and the first kuyu only struck one of his teethand rolled into the water. However, the second time the monkey hadbetter luck, and the fruit fell right in.'Ah, how good!' cried the shark. 'Send me another, please.' And themonkey grew tired of picking the kuyu long before the shark was tired ofeating them.'It is getting late, and I must be going home to my children,' he said,at length, 'but if you are here at the same time to morrow I will giveyou another treat.''Thank you, thank you,' said the shark, showing all his great ugly teethas he grinned with delight. 'you can't guess how happy you have mademe,' and he swam away into the shadow, hoping to sleep away the timetill the monkey came again.For weeks the monkey and the shark breakfasted together, and it wasa wonder that the tree had any fruit left for them. They became fastfriends, and told each other about their homes and their children, andhow to teach them all they ought to know. By and bye the monkey becamerather discontented with his green house in a grove of palms beyond thetown, and longed to see the strange things under the sea which he hadheard of from the shark. The shark perceived this very clearly, anddescribed greater marvels, and the monkey as he listened grew more andmore gloomy.Matters were in this state when one day the shark said: 'I really hardlyknow how to thank you for all your kindness to me during these weeks.Here I have nothing of my own to offer you, but if you would onlyconsent to come home with me, how gladly would I give you anything thatmight happen to take your fancy.''I should like nothing better,' cried the monkey, his teeth chattering,as they always did when he was pleased. 'But how could I get there? Notby water. Ugh! It makes me ill to think of it!''Oh! don't let that trouble you,' replied the shark, 'you have only tosit on my back and I will undertake that not a drop of water shall touchyou.'So it was arranged, and directly after breakfast next morning the sharkswam close up under the tree and the monkey dropped neatly on his back,without even a splash. After a few minutes for at first he felt alittle frightened at his strange position the monkey began to enjoyhimself vastly, and asked the shark a thousand questions about the fishand the sea weeds and the oddly shaped things that floated past them,and as the shark always gave him some sort of answer, the monkey neverguessed that many of the objects they saw were as new to his guide as tohimself.The sun had risen and set six times when the shark suddenly said, 'Myfriend, we have now performed half our journey, and it is time that Ishould tell you something.''What is it?' asked the monkey. 'Nothing unpleasant, I hope, for yousound rather grave?''Oh, no! Nothing at all. It is only that shortly before we left I heardthat the sultan of my country is very ill, and that the only thing tocure him is a monkey's heart.''Poor man, I am very sorry for him,' replied the monkey. 'but you wereunwise not to tell me till we had started.''What do you mean?' asked the shark. but the monkey, who now understoodthe whole plot, did not answer at once, for he was considering what heshould say.'Why are you so silent?' inquired the shark again.'I was thinking what a pity it was you did not tell me while I was stillon land, and then I would have brought my heart with me.''Your heart! Why isn't your heart here?' said the shark, with a puzzledexpression.'Oh, no! Of course not. Is it possible you don't know that when weleave home we always hang up our hearts on trees, to prevent their beingtroublesome? However, perhaps you won't believe that, and will justthink I have invented it because I am afraid, so let us go on to yourcountry as fast as we can, and when we arrive you can look for my heart,and if you find it you can kill me.'The monkey spoke in such a calm, indifferent way that the shark wasquite deceived, and began to wish he had not been in such a hurry.'But there is no use going on if your heart is not with you,' he said atlast. 'We had better turn back to the town, and then you can fetch it.'Of course, this was just what the monkey wanted, but he was careful notto seem too pleased.'Well, I don't know,' he remarked carelessly, 'it is such a long way.but you may be right.''I am sure I am,' answered the shark, 'and I will swim as quickly asI can,' and so he did, and in three days they caught sight of the kuyutree hanging over the water.With a sigh of relief the monkey caught hold of the nearest branch andswung himself up.'Wait for me here,' he called out to the shark. 'I am so hungry I musthave a little breakfast, and then I will go and look for my heart,' andhe went further and further into the branches so that the shark couldnot see him. Then he curled himself up and went to sleep.'Are you there?' cried the shark, who was soon tired of swimming aboutunder the cliff, and was in haste to be gone.The monkey awoke with a start, but did not answer.'Are you there?' called the shark again, louder than before, and in avery cross voice.'Oh, yes. I am here,' replied the monkey. 'but I wish you had notwakened me up. I was having such a nice nap.''Have you got it?' asked the shark. 'It is time we were going.''Going where?' inquired the monkey.'Why, to my country, of course, with your heart. You CAN'T haveforgotten!''My dear friend,' answered the monkey, with a chuckle, 'I think you mustbe going a little mad. Do you take me for a washerman's donkey?''Don't talk nonsense,' exclaimed the shark, who did not like beinglaughed at. 'What do you mean about a washerman's donkey? And I wish youwould be quick, or we may be too late to save the sultan.''Did you really never hear of the washerman's donkey?' asked the monkey,who was enjoying himself immensely. 'Why, he is the beast who has noheart. And as I am not feeling very well, and am afraid to start whilethe sun is so high lest I should get a sunstroke, if you like, I willcome a little nearer and tell you his story.''Very well,' said the shark sulkily, 'if you won't come, I suppose I mayas well listen to that as do nothing.'So the monkey began.'A washerman once lived in the great forest on the other side of thetown, and he had a donkey to keep him company and to carry him whereverhe wanted to go. For a time they got on very well, but by and bye thedonkey grew lazy and ungrateful for her master's kindness, and ran awayseveral miles into the heart of the forest, where she did nothing buteat and eat and eat, till she grew so fat she could hardly move.'One day as she was tasting quite a new kind of grass and wondering ifit was as good as what she had had for dinner the day before, a harehappened to pass by.'"Well, that is a fat creature," thought she, and turned out of her pathto tell the news to a lion who was a friend of hers. Now the lion hadbeen very ill, and was not strong enough to go hunting for himself, andwhen the hare came and told him that a very fat donkey was to be foundonly a few hundred yards off, tears of disappointment and weaknessfilled his eyes.'"What is the good of telling me that?" he asked, in a weepy voice. "youknow I cannot even walk as far as that palm."'"Never mind," answered the hare briskly. "If you can't go to yourdinner your dinner shall come to you," and nodding a farewell to thelion she went back to the donkey.'"Good morning," said she, bowing politely to the donkey, who lifted herhead in surprise. "Excuse my interrupting you, but I have come on veryimportant business."'"Indeed," answered the donkey, "it is most kind of you to take thetrouble. May I inquire what the business is?"'"Certainly," replied the hare. "It is my friend the lion who has heardso much of your charms and good qualities that he has sent me to begthat you will give him your paw in marriage. He regrets deeply that heis unable to make the request in person, but he has been ill and is tooweak to move."'"Poor fellow! How sad!" said the donkey. "But you must tell him thatI feel honoured by his proposal, and will gladly consent to be Queen ofthe Beasts."'"Will you not come and tell him so yourself?" asked the hare.'Side by side they went down the road which led to the lion's house. Ittook a long while, for the donkey was so fat with eating she could onlywalk very slowly, and the hare, who could have run the distance in aboutfive minutes, was obliged to creep along till she almost dropped withfatigue at not being able to go at her own pace. When at last theyarrived the lion was sitting up at the entrance, looking very pale andthin. The donkey suddenly grew shy and hung her head, but the lion puton his best manners and invited both his visitors to come in and makethemselves comfortable.'Very soon the hare got up and said, "Well, as I have another engagementI will leave you to make acquaintance with your future husband," andwinking at the lion she bounded away.'The donkey expected that as soon as they were left alone the lion wouldbegin to speak of their marriage, and where they should live, but ashe said nothing she looked up. To her surprise and terror she saw himcrouching in the corner, his eyes glaring with a red light, and with aloud roar he sprang towards her. But in that moment the donkey had hadtime to prepare herself, and jumping on one side dealt the lion such ahard kick that he shrieked with the pain. Again and again he struck ather with his claws, but the donkey could bite too, as well as the lion,who was very weak after his illness, and at last a well planted kickknocked him right over, and he rolled on the floor, groaning with pain.The donkey did not wait for him to get up, but ran away as fast as shecould and was lost in the forest.'Now the hare, who knew quite well what would happen, had not gone to doher business, but hid herself in some bushes behind the cave, where shecould hear quite clearly the sounds of the battle. When all was quietagain she crept gently out, and stole round the corner.'"Well, lion, have you killed her?" asked she, running swiftly up thepath.'"Killed her, indeed!" answered the lion sulkily, "it is she who hasnearly killed me. I never knew a donkey could kick like that, though Itook care she should carry away the marks of my claws."'"Dear me! Fancy such a great fat creature being able to fight!" criedthe hare. "But don't vex yourself. Just lie still, and your woundswill soon heal," and she bade her friend, good bye, and returned to herfamily.'Two or three weeks passed, and only bare places on the donkey's backshowed where the lion's claws had been, while, on his side, the lionhad recovered from his illness and was now as strong as ever. He wasbeginning to think that it was almost time for him to begin huntingagain, when one morning a rustle was heard in the creepers outside, andthe hare's head peeped through.'"Ah! there is no need to ask how you are," she said. "Still you mustn'tovertire yourself, you know. Shall I go and bring you your dinner?"'"If you will bring me that donkey I will tear it in two," cried thelion savagely, and the hare laughed and nodded and went on her errand.'This time the donkey was much further than before, and it took longerto find her. At last the hare caught sight of four hoofs in the air, andran towards them. The donkey was lying on a soft cool bed of moss near astream, rolling herself backwards and forwards from pleasure.'"Good morning," said the hare politely, and the donkey got slowly on toher legs, and looked to see who her visitor could be.'"Oh, it is you, is it?" she exclaimed. "Come and have a chat. What newshave you got?"'"I mustn't stay," answered the hare. "but I promised the lion to begyou to pay him a visit, as he is not well enough to call on you."'"Well, I don't know," replied the donkey gloomily, "the last time wewent he scratched me very badly, and really I was quite afraid."'"He was only trying to kiss you," said the hare, "and you bit him, andof course that made him cross."'"If I were sure of that," hesitated the donkey.'"Oh, you may be quite sure," laughed the hare. "I have a largeacquaintance among lions. But let us be quick," and rather unwillinglythe donkey set out.'The lion saw them coming and hid himself behind a large tree. As thedonkey went past, followed by the hare, he sprang out, and with one blowof his paw stretched the poor foolish creature dead before him.'"Take this meat and skin it and roast it," he said to the hare. "but myappetite is not so good as it was, and the only part I want for myselfis the heart. The rest you can either eat yourself or give away to yourfriends."'"Thank you," replied the hare, balancing the donkey on her back aswell as she was able, and though the legs trailed along the ground shemanaged to drag it to an open space some distance off, where she madea fire and roasted it. As soon as it was cooked the hare took out theheart and had just finished eating it when the lion, who was tired ofwaiting, came up.'"I am hungry," said he. "Bring me the creature's heart. it is just whatI want for supper."'"But there is no heart," answered the hare, looking up at the lion witha puzzled face.'"What nonsense!" said the lion. "As if every beast had not got a heart.What do you mean?"'"This is a washerman's donkey," replied the hare gravely.'"Well, and suppose it is?"'"Oh, fie!" exclaimed the hare. "You, a lion and a grown up person, andask questions like that. If the donkey had had a heart would she be herenow? The first time she came she knew you were trying to kill her, andran away. Yet she came back a second time. Well, if she had had a heartwould she have come back a second time? Now would she?"'And the lion answered slowly, "No, she would not."'So you think I am a washerman's donkey?' said the monkey to the shark,when the story was ended. 'You are wrong. I am not. And as the sunis getting low in the sky, it is time for you to begin your homewardjourney. You will have a nice cool voyage, and I hope you will find thesultan better. Farewell!' And the monkey disappeared among the greenbranches, and was gone.From 'Swahili Tales,' by Edward Steere, LL.D.