A shoemaker once engaged an apprentice. A short time after theapprenticeship began the shoemaker asked the boy what he would call him inaddressing him."Oh, I would just call you master," answered the apprentice."No," said the master, "you must call me master above all masters."Continued the shoemaker, "What would you call my trousers?"Apprentice: "Oh, I would call them trousers."Shoemaker: "No, you must call them struntifers. And what would you callmy wife?"Apprentice: "Oh, I would call her mistress."Shoemaker: "No, you must call her the Fair Lady Permoumadam. And whatwould you call my son?"Apprentice: "Oh, I would call him Johnny."Shoemaker: "No, you must call him John the Great. And what would youcall the cat?"Apprentice: "Oh, I would call him pussy."Shoemaker: "No, you must call him Great Carle Gropus. And what wouldyou call the fire?"Apprentice: "Oh, I would call it fire."Shoemaker: "No, you must call it Fire Evangelist. And what would youcall the peat stack?"Apprentice: "Oh, I would just call it peat stack."Shoemaker: "No, you must call it Mount Potago. And what would you callthe well?"Apprentice: "Oh, I would call it well."Shoemaker: "No, you must call it the Fair Fountain. And, last of all,what would you call the house?"Apprentice: "Oh, I would call it house."Shoemaker: "No, you must call it the Castle of Mungo."The shoemaker, after giving this lesson to his apprentice, told himthat the first day he had occasion to use all these words at once, and wasable to do so without making a mistake, the apprenticeship would be at anend.The apprentice was not long in making an occasion for using the words.One morning he got out of bed before his master and lighted the fire. Hethen tied some bits of paper to the tail of the cat and threw the animalinto the fire. The cat ran out with the papers all in a blaze, landed inthe peat stack, which caught fire.The apprentice hurried to his master and cried out, "Master above allmasters, start up and jump into your struntifers, and call upon Sir Johnthe Great and the Fair Lady Permoumadam, for Carle Gropus has caught holdof Fire Evangelist, and he is out to Mount Potago, and if you don't gethelp from the Fair Fountain, the whole of Castle Mungo will be burned tothe ground."