Many years ago, long before shooting in Scotland was a fashion as it isnow, two young men spent the autumn in the very far north, living in alodge far from other houses, with an old woman to cook for them. Her catand their own dogs formed all the rest of the household.One afternoon the elder of the two young men said he would not go out,and the younger one went alone, to follow the path of the previous day'ssport looking for missing birds, and intending to return home before theearly sunset. However, he did not do so, and the elder man became veryuneasy as he watched and waited in vain till long after their usualsupper time. At last the young man returned, wet and exhausted, nor did heexplain his unusual lateness until, after supper, they were seated by thefire with their pipes, the dogs lying at their feet, and the old woman'sblack cat sitting gravely with half shut eyes on the hearth between them.Then the young man began as follows: "You must be wondering what made me so late. I have had a curiousadventure to day. I hardly know what to say about it. I went, as I toldyou I should, along our yesterday's route. A mountain fog came on just asI was about to turn homewards, and I completely lost my way. I wanderedabout for a long time, not knowing where I was, till at last I saw alight, and made for it, hoping to get help. As I came near it, itdisappeared, and I found myself close to a large old oak tree. I climbedinto the branches the better to look for the light, and, behold! it wasbeneath me, inside the hollow trunk of the tree. I seemed to be lookingdown into a church, where a funeral was in the act of taking place. Iheard singing, and saw a coffin, surrounded by torches, all carried by   But I know you won't believe me if I tell you!"His friend eagerly begged him to go on, and laid down his pipe tolisten. The dogs were sleeping quietly, but the cat was sitting upapparently listening as attentively as the man, and both young meninvoluntarily turned their eyes towards him. "Yes," proceeded theabsentee," it is perfectly true. The coffin and the torches were bothborne by cats, and upon the coffin were marked a crown and scepter!" Hegot no further. the cat started up shrieking, "By Jove! old Peter's dead!and I'm the King o' the Cats!" rushed up the chimney and was seen nomore.