Once upon a time what should happen DID happen. and if it had nothappened this tale would never have been told.There was once an emperor, very great and mighty, and he ruled over anempire so large that no one knew where it began and where it ended. Butif nobody could tell the exact extent of his sovereignty everybody wasaware that the emperor's right eye laughed, while his left eye wept.One or two men of valour had the courage to go and ask him the reason ofthis strange fact, but he only laughed and said nothing. and the reasonof the deadly enmity between his two eyes was a secret only known to themonarch himself.And all the while the emperor's sons were growing up. And such sons! Allthree like the morning stars in the sky!Florea, the eldest, was so tall and broad shouldered that no man in thekingdom could approach him.Costan, the second, was quite different. Small of stature, and slightlybuilt, he had a strong arm and stronger wrist.Petru, the third and youngest, was tall and thin, more like a girl thana boy. He spoke very little, but laughed and sang, sang and laughed,from morning till night. He was very seldom serious, but then he had away when he was thinking of stroking his hair over his forehead, whichmade him look old enough to sit in his father's council!'You are grown up, Florea,' said Petru one day to his eldest brother.'do go and ask father why one eye laughs and the other weeps.'But Florea would not go. He had learnt by experience that this questionalways put the emperor in a rage.Petru next went to Costan, but did not succeed any better with him.'Well, well, as everyone else is afraid, I suppose I must do it myself,'observed Petru at length. No sooner said than done. the boy wentstraight to his father and put his question.'May you go blind!' exclaimed the emperor in wrath. 'what business is itof yours?' and boxed Petru's ears soundly.Petru returned to his brothers, and told them what had befallen him. butnot long after it struck him that his father's left eye seemed to weepless, and the right to laugh more.'I wonder if it has anything to do with my question,' thought he.'I'll try again! After all, what do two boxes on the ear matter?'So he put his question for the second time, and had the same answer.but the left eye only wept now and then, while the right eye looked tenyears younger.'It really MUST be true,' thought Petru. 'Now I know what I have to do.I shall have to go on putting that question, and getting boxes on theear, till both eyes laugh together.'No sooner said than done. Petru never, never forswore himself.'Petru, my dear boy,' cried the emperor, both his eyes laughingtogether, 'I see you have got this on the brain. Well, I will let youinto the secret. My right eye laughs when I look at my three sons, andsee how strong and handsome you all are, and the other eye weepsbecause I fear that after I die you will not be able to keep the empiretogether, and to protect it from its enemies. But if you can bring mewater from the spring of the Fairy of the Dawn, to bathe my eyes, thenthey will laugh for evermore. for I shall know that my sons are braveenough to overcome any foe.'Thus spoke the emperor, and Petru picked up his hat and went to find hisbrothers.The three young men took counsel together, and talked the subject wellover, as brothers should do. And the end of it was that Florea, as theeldest, went to the stables, chose the best and handsomest horse theycontained, saddled him, and took leave of the court.'I am starting at once,' said he to his brothers, 'and if after a year,a month, a week, and a day I have not returned with the water from thespring of the Fairy of the Dawn, you, Costan, had better come after me.'So saying he disappeared round a corner of the palace.For three days and three nights he never drew rein. Like a spirit thehorse flew over mountains and valleys till he came to the borders ofthe empire. Here was a deep, deep trench that girdled it the whole wayround, and there was only a single bridge by which the trench could becrossed. Florea made instantly for the bridge, and there pulled up tolook around him once more, to take leave of his native land Then heturned, but before him was standing a dragon oh! SUCH a dragon! adragon with three heads and three horrible faces, all with their mouthswide open, one jaw reaching to heaven and the other to earth.At this awful sight Florea did not wait to give battle. He put spurs tohis horse and dashed off, WHERE he neither knew nor cared.The dragon heaved a sigh and vanished without leaving a trace behindhim.A week went by. Florea did not return home. Two passed. and nothing washeard of him. After a month Costan began to haunt the stables and tolook out a horse for himself. And the moment the year, the month, theweek, and the day were over Costan mounted his horse and took leave ofhis youngest brother.'If I fail, then you come,' said he, and followed the path that Floreahad taken.The dragon on the bridge was more fearful and his three heads moreterrible than before, and the young hero rode away still faster than hisbrother had done.Nothing more was heard either of him or Florea. and Petru remainedalone.'I must go after my brothers,' said Petru one day to his father.'Go, then,' said his father, 'and may you have better luck than they'.and he bade farewell to Petru, who rode straight to the borders of thekingdom.The dragon on the bridge was yet more dreadful than the one Florea andCostan had seen, for this one had seven heads instead of only three.Petru stopped for a moment when he caught sight of this terriblecreature. Then he found his voice.'Get out of the way!' cried he. 'Get out of the way!' he repeated again,as the dragon did not move. 'Get out of the way!' and with this lastsummons he drew his sword and rushed upon him. In an instant the heavensseemed to darken round him and he was surrounded by fire fire to rightof him, fire to left of him, fire to front of him, fire to rear of him.nothing but fire whichever way he looked, for the dragon's seven headswere vomiting flame.The horse neighed and reared at the horrible sight, and Petru could notuse the sword he had in readiness.'Be quiet! this won't do!' he said, dismounting hastily, but holding thebridle firmly in his left hand and grasping his sword in his right.But even so he got on no better, for he could see nothing but fire andsmoke.'There is no help for it. I must go back and get a better horse,' saidhe, and mounted again and rode homewards.At the gate of the palace his nurse, old Birscha, was waiting for himeagerly.'Ah, Petru, my son, I knew you would have to come back,' she cried. 'Youdid not set about the matter properly.''How ought I to have set about it?' asked Petru, half angrily, halfsadly.'Look here, my boy,' replied old Birscha. 'You can never reach thespring of the Fairy of the Dawn unless you ride the horse which yourfather, the emperor, rode in his youth. Go and ask where it is to befound, and then mount it and be off with you.'Petru thanked her heartily for her advice, and went at once to makeinquiries about the horse.'By the light of my eyes!' exclaimed the emperor when Petru had put hisquestion. 'Who has told you anything about that? It must have been thatold witch of a Birscha? Have you lost your wits? Fifty years have passedsince I was young, and who knows where the bones of my horse may berotting, or whether a scrap of his reins still lie in his stall? I haveforgotten all about him long ago.'Petru turned away in anger, and went back to his old nurse.'Do not be cast down,' she said with a smile. 'if that is how the affairstands all will go well. Go and fetch the scrap of the reins. I shallsoon know what must be done.'The place was full of saddles, bridles, and bits of leather. Petrupicked out the oldest, and blackest, and most decayed pair of reins,and brought them to the old woman, who murmured something over them andsprinkled them with incense, and held them out to the young man.'Take the reins,' said she, 'and strike them violently against thepillars of the house.'Petru did what he was told, and scarcely had the reins touched thepillars when something happened HOW I have no idea that made Petrustare with surprise. A horse stood before him a horse whose equalin beauty the world had never seen. with a saddle on him of gold andprecious stones, and with such a dazzling bridle you hardly daredto look at it, lest you should lose your sight. A splendid horse, asplendid saddle, and a splendid bridle, all ready for the splendid youngprince!'Jump on the back of the brown horse,' said the old woman, and sheturned round and went into the house.The moment Petru was seated on the horse he felt his arm three times asstrong as before, and even his heart felt braver.'Sit firmly in the saddle, my lord, for we have a long way to go and notime to waste,' said the brown horse, and Petru soon saw that they wereriding as no man and horse had ever ridden before.On the bridge stood a dragon, but not the same one as he had tried tofight with, for this dragon had twelve heads, each more hideous andshooting forth more terrible flames than the other. But, horrible thoughhe was, he had met his match. Petru showed no fear, but rolled up hissleeves, that his arms might be free.'Get out of the way!' he said when he had done, but the dragon's headsonly breathed forth more flames and smoke. Petru wasted no more words,but drew his sword and prepared to throw himself on the bridge.'Stop a moment. be careful, my lord,' put in the horse, 'and be sure youdo what I tell you. Dig your spurs in my body up to the rowel, drawyour sword, and keep yourself ready, for we shall have to leap over bothbridge and dragon. When you see that we are right above the dragon cutoff his biggest head, wipe the blood off the sword, and put it backclean in the sheath before we touch earth again.'So Petru dug in his spurs, drew his sword, cut of the head, wiped theblood, and put the sword back in the sheath before the horse's hoofstouched the ground again.And in this fashion they passed the bridge.'But we have got to go further still,' said Petru, after he had taken afarewell glance at his native land.'Yes, forwards,' answered the horse. 'but you must tell me, my lord, atwhat speed you wish to go. Like the wind? Like thought? Like desire? orlike a curse?'Petru looked about him, up at the heavens and down again to the earth.A desert lay spread out before him, whose aspect made his hair stand onend.'We will ride at different speeds,' said he, 'not so fast as to growtired nor so slow as to waste time.'And so they rode, one day like the wind, the next like thought, thethird and fourth like desire and like a curse, till they reached theborders of the desert.'Now walk, so that I may look about, and see what I have never seenbefore,' said Petru, rubbing his eyes like one who wakes from sleep, orlike him who beholds something so strange that it seems as if... BeforePetru lay a wood made of copper, with copper trees and copper leaves,with bushes and flowers of copper also.Petru stood and stared as a man does when he sees something that he hasnever seen, and of which he has never heard.Then he rode right into the wood. On each side of the way the rows offlowers began to praise Petru, and to try and persuade him to pick someof them and make himself a wreath.'Take me, for I am lovely, and can give strength to whoever plucks me,'said one.'No, take me, for whoever wears me in his hat will be loved by the mostbeautiful woman in the world,' pleaded the second. and then oneafter another bestirred itself, each more charming than the last, allpromising, in soft sweet voices, wonderful things to Petru, if only hewould pick them.Petru was not deaf to their persuasion, and was just stooping to pickone when the horse sprang to one side.'Why don't you stay still?' asked Petru roughly.'Do not pick the flowers. it will bring you bad luck. answered thehorse.'Why should it do that?''These flowers are under a curse. Whoever plucks them must fight theWelwa(1) of the woods.'(1) A goblin.'What kind of a goblin is the Welwa?''Oh, do leave me in peace! But listen. Look at the flowers as much asyou like, but pick none,' and the horse walked on slowly.Petru knew by experience that he would do well to attend to the horse'sadvice, so he made a great effort and tore his mind away from theflowers.But in vain! If a man is fated to be unlucky, unlucky he will be,whatever he may do!The flowers went on beseeching him, and his heart grew ever weaker andweaker.'What must come will come,' said Petru at length. 'at any rate I shallsee the Welwa of the woods, what she is like, and which way I had bestfight her. If she is ordained to be the cause of my death, well, thenit will be so. but if not I shall conquer her though she were twelvehundred Welwas,' and once more he stooped down to gather the flowers.'You have done very wrong,' said the horse sadly. 'But it can't behelped now. Get yourself ready for battle, for here is the Welwa!'Hardly had he done speaking, scarcely had Petru twisted his wreath, whena soft breeze arose on all sides at once. Out of the breeze came a stormwind, and the storm wind swelled and swelled till everything aroundwas blotted out in darkness, and darkness covered them as with a thickcloak, while the earth swayed and shook under their feet.'Are you afraid?' asked the horse, shaking his mane.'Not yet,' replied Petru stoutly, though cold shivers were running downhis back. 'What must come will come, whatever it is.''Don't be afraid,' said the horse. 'I will help you. Take the bridlefrom my neck, and try to catch the Welwa with it.'The words were hardly spoken, and Petru had no time even to unbucklethe bridle, when the Welwa herself stood before him. and Petru could notbear to look at her, so horrible was she.She had not exactly a head, yet neither was she without one. She did notfly through the air, but neither did she walk upon the earth. She hada mane like a horse, horns like a deer, a face like a bear, eyes like apolecat. while her body had something of each. And that was the Welwa.Petru planted himself firmly in his stirrups, and began to lay about himwith his sword, but could feel nothing.A day and a night went by, and the fight was still undecided, but atlast the Welwa began to pant for breath.'Let us wait a little and rest,' gasped she.Petru stopped and lowered his sword.'You must not stop an instant,' said the horse, and Petru gathered upall his strength, and laid about him harder than ever.The Welwa gave a neigh like a horse and a howl like a wolf, and threwherself afresh on Petru. For another day and night the battle raged morefuriously than before. And Petru grew so exhausted he could scarcelymove his arm.'Let us wait a little and rest,' cried the Welwa for the second time,'for I see you are as weary as I am.''You must not stop an instant,' said the horse.And Petru went on fighting, though he barely had strength to move hisarm. But the Welwa had ceased to throw herself upon him, and began todeliver her blows cautiously, as if she had no longer power to strike.And on the third day they were still fighting, but as the morning skybegan to redden Petru somehow managed how I cannot tell to throw thebridle over the head of the tired Welwa. In a moment, from the Welwasprang a horse the most beautiful horse in the world.'Sweet be your life, for you have delivered me from my enchantment,'said he, and began to rub his nose against his brother's. And he toldPetru all his story, and how he had been bewitched for many years.So Petru tied the Welwa to his own horse and rode on. Where did heride? That I cannot tell you, but he rode on fast till he got out of thecopper wood.'Stay still, and let me look about, and see what I never have seenbefore,' said Petru again to his horse. For in front of him stretched aforest that was far more wonderful, as it was made of glistening treesand shining flowers. It was the silver wood.As before, the flowers began to beg the young man to gather them.'Do not pluck them,' warned the Welwa, trotting beside him, 'for mybrother is seven times stronger than I'. but though Petru knew byexperience what this meant, it was no use, and after a moment'shesitation he began to gather the flowers, and to twist himself awreath.Then the storm wind howled louder, the earth trembled more violently,and the night grew darker, than the first time, and the Welwa of thesilver wood came rushing on with seven times the speed of the other.For three days and three nights they fought, but at last Petru cast thebridle over the head of the second Welwa.'Sweet be your life, for you have delivered me from enchantment,' saidthe second Welwa, and they all journeyed on as before.But soon they came to a gold wood more lovely far than the othertwo, and again Petru's companions pleaded with him to ride through itquickly, and to leave the flowers alone. But Petru turned a deaf earto all they said, and before he had woven his golden crown he felt thatsomething terrible, that he could not see, was coming near him right outof the earth. He drew his sword and made himself ready for the fight. 'Iwill die!' cried he, 'or he shall have my bridle over his head.'He had hardly said the words when a thick fog wrapped itself aroundhim, and so thick was it that he could not see his own hand, or hearthe sound of his voice. For a day and a night he fought with his sword,without ever once seeing his enemy, then suddenly the fog began tolighten. By dawn of the second day it had vanished altogether, and thesun shone brightly in the heavens. It seemed to Petru that he had beenborn again.And the Welwa? She had vanished.'You had better take breath now you can, for the fight will have tobegin all over again,' said the horse.'What was it?' asked Petru.'It was the Welwa,' replied the horse, 'changed into a fog 'Listen! Sheis coming!'And Petru had hardly drawn a long breath when he felt somethingapproaching from the side, though what he could not tell. A river, yetnot a river, for it seemed not to flow over the earth, but to go whereit liked, and to leave no trace of its passage.'Woe be to me!' cried Petru, frightened at last.'Beware, and never stand still,' called the brown horse, and more hecould not say, for the water was choking him.The battle began anew. For a day and a night Petru fought on, withoutknowing at whom or what he struck. At dawn on the second, he felt thatboth his feet were lame.'Now I am done for,' thought he, and his blows fell thicker and harderin his desperation. And the sun came out and the water disappeared,without his knowing how or when.'Take breath,' said the horse, 'for you have no time to lose. The Welwawill return in a moment.'Petru made no reply, only wondered how, exhausted as he was, he shouldever be able to carry on the fight. But he settled himself in hissaddle, grasped his sword, and waited.And then something came to him WHAT I cannot tell you. Perhaps, in hisdreams, a man may see a creature which has what it has not got, and hasnot got what it has. At least, that was what the Welwa seemed like toPetru. She flew with her feet, and walked with her wings. her head wasin her back, and her tail was on top of her body. her eyes were in herneck, and her neck in her forehead, and how to describe her further I donot know.Petru felt for a moment as if he was wrapped in a garment of fear. thenhe shook himself and took heart, and fought as he had never yet foughtbefore.As the day wore on, his strength began to fail, and when darkness fellhe could hardly keep his eyes open. By midnight he knew he was no longeron his horse, but standing on the ground, though he could not havetold how he got there. When the grey light of morning came, he was paststanding on his feet, but fought now upon his knees.'Make one more struggle. it is nearly over now,' said the horse, seeingthat Petru's strength was waning fast.Petru wiped the sweat from his brow with his gauntlet, and with adesperate effort rose to his feet.'Strike the Welwa on the mouth with the bridle,' said the horse, andPetru did it.The Welwa uttered a neigh so loud that Petru thought he would be deaffor life, and then, though she too was nearly spent, flung herself uponher enemy. but Petru was on the watch and threw the bridle over herhead, as she rushed on, so that when the day broke there were threehorses trotting beside him.'May your wife be the most beautiful of women,' said the Welwa, 'foryou have delivered me from my enchantment.' So the four horses gallopedfast, and by nightfall they were at the borders of the golden forest.Then Petru began to think of the crowns that he wore, and what they hadcost him.'After all, what do I want with so many? I will keep the best,' he saidto himself. and taking off first the copper crown and then the silver,he threw them away.'Stay!' cried the horse, 'do not throw them away! Perhaps we shall findthem of use. Get down and pick them up.' So Petru got down and pickedthem up, and they all went on.In the evening, when the sun is getting low, and all the midges arebeginning to bite, Peter saw a wide heath stretching before him.At the same instant the horse stood still of itself.'What is the matter?' asked Petru.'I am afraid that something evil will happen to us,' answered the horse.'But why should it?''We are going to enter the kingdom of the goddess Mittwoch,(2) and thefurther we ride into it the colder we shall get. But all along the roadthere are huge fires, and I dread lest you should stop and warm yourselfat them.'(2) In German 'Mittwoch,' the feminine form of Mercury.'And why should I not warm myself?''Something fearful will happen to you if you do,' replied the horsesadly.'Well, forward!' cried Petru lightly, 'and if I have to bear cold, Imust bear it!'With every step they went into the kingdom of Mittwoch, the air grewcolder and more icy, till even the marrow in their bones was frozen. ButPetru was no coward. the fight he had gone through had strengthened hispowers of endurance, and he stood the test bravely.Along the road on each side were great fires, with men standing by them,who spoke pleasantly to Petru as he went by, and invited him to jointhem. The breath froze in his mouth, but he took no notice, only badehis horse ride on the faster.How long Petru may have waged battle silently with the cold one cannottell, for everybody knows that the kingdom of Mittwoch is not to becrossed in a day, but he struggled on, though the frozen rocks burstaround, and though his teeth chattered, and even his eyelids werefrozen.At length they reached the dwelling of Mittwoch herself, and, jumpingfrom his horse, Petru threw the reins over his horse's neck and enteredthe hut.'Good day, little mother!' said he.'Very well, thank you, my frozen friend!'Petru laughed, and waited for her to speak.'You have borne yourself bravely,' went on the goddess, tapping him onthe shoulder. 'Now you shall have your reward,' and she opened an ironchest, out of which she took a little box.'Look!' said she. 'this little box has been lying here for ages, waitingfor the man who could win his way through the Ice Kingdom. Take it, andtreasure it, for some day it may help you.If you open it, it will tell you anything you want, and give you news ofyour fatherland.'Petru thanked her gratefully for her gift, mounted his horse, and rodeaway.When he was some distance from the hut, he opened the casket.'What are your commands?' asked a voice inside.'Give me news of my father,' he replied, rather nervously.'He is sitting in council with his nobles,' answered the casket.'Is he well?''Not particularly, for he is furiously angry.''What has angered him?''Your brothers Costan and Florea,' replied the casket. 'It seems to methey are trying to rule him and the kingdom as well, and the old mansays they are not fit to do it.''Push on, good horse, for we have no time to lose!' cried Petru. then heshut up the box, and put it in his pocket.They rushed on as fast as ghosts, as whirlwinds, as vampires when theyhunt at midnight, and how long they rode no man can tell, for the way isfar.'Stop! I have some advice to give you,' said the horse at last.'What is it?' asked Petru.'You have known what it is to suffer cold. you will have to endure heat,such as you have never dreamed of. Be as brave now as you were then. Letno one tempt you to try to cool yourself, or evil will befall you.''Forwards!' answered Petru. 'Do not worry yourself. If I have escapedwithout being frozen, there is no chance of my melting.''Why not? This is a heat that will melt the marrow in your bones a heatthat is only to be felt in the kingdom of the Goddess of Thunder.'(3)(3) In the German 'Donnerstag' the day of the Thunder God, i.e.Jupiter.And it WAS hot. The very iron of the horse's shoes began to melt, butPetru gave no heed. The sweat ran down his face, but he dried it withhis gauntlet. What heat could be he never knew before, and on the way,not a stone's throw from the road, lay the most delicious valleys, fullof shady trees and bubbling streams. When Petru looked at them his heartburned within him, and his mouth grew parched. And standing among theflowers were lovely maidens who called to him in soft voices, till hehad to shut his eyes against their spells.'Come, my hero, come and rest. the heat will kill you,' said they.Petru shook his head and said nothing, for he had lost the power ofspeech.Long he rode in this awful state, how long none can tell. Suddenly theheat seemed to become less, and, in the distance, he saw a little huton a hill. This was the dwelling of the Goddess of Thunder, and when hedrew rein at her door the goddess herself came out to meet him.She welcomed him, and kindly invited him in, and bade him tell her allhis adventures. So Petru told her all that had happened to him, and whyhe was there, and then took farewell of her, as he had no time to lose.'For,' he said, 'who knows how far the Fairy of the Dawn may yet be?''Stay for one moment, for I have a word of advice to give you. You areabout to enter the kingdom of Venus.(4) go and tell her, as a messagefrom me, that I hope she will not tempt you to delay. On your way back,come to me again, and I will give you something that may be of use toyou.'(4) 'Vineri' is Friday, and also 'Venus.'So Petru mounted his horse, and had hardly ridden three steps when hefound himself in a new country. Here it was neither hot nor cold, butthe air was warm and soft like spring, though the way ran through aheath covered with sand and thistles.'What can that be?' asked Petru, when he saw a long, long way off, atthe very end of the heath, something resembling a house.'That is the house of the goddess Venus,' replied the horse, 'and if weride hard we may reach it before dark'. and he darted off like anarrow, so that as twilight fell they found themselves nearing the house.Petru's heart leaped at the sight, for all the way along he had beenfollowed by a crowd of shadowy figures who danced about him from rightto left, and from back to front, and Petru, though a brave man, felt nowand then a thrill of fear.'They won't hurt you,' said the horse. 'they are just the daughters ofthe whirlwind amusing themselves while they are waiting for the ogre ofthe moon.'Then he stopped in front of the house, and Petru jumped off and went tothe door.'Do not be in such a hurry,' cried the horse. 'There are several thingsI must tell you first. You cannot enter the house of the goddess Venuslike that. She is always watched and guarded by the whirlwind.''What am I to do then?''Take the copper wreath, and go with it to that little hill overthere. When you reach it, say to yourself, "Were there ever such lovelymaidens! such angels! such fairy souls!" Then hold the wreath high inthe air and cry, "Oh! if I knew whether any one would accept this wreathfrom me... if I knew! if I knew!" and throw the wreath from you!''And why should I do all this?' said Petru.'Ask no questions, but go and do it,' replied the horse. And Petru did.Scarcely had he flung away the copper wreath than the whirlwind flunghimself upon it, and tore it in pieces.Then Petru turned once more to the horse.'Stop!' cried the horse again. 'I have other things to tell you.Take the silver wreath and knock at the windows of the goddess Venus.When she says, "Who is there?" answer that you have come on foot andlost your way on the heath. She will then tell you to go your way backagain. but take care not to stir from the spot. Instead, be sure you sayto her, "No, indeed I shall do nothing of the sort, as from my childhoodI have heard stories of the beauty of the goddess Venus, and it was notfor nothing that I had shoes made of leather with soles of steel, andhave travelled for nine years and nine months, and have won in battlethe silver wreath, which I hope you may allow me to give you, and havedone and suffered everything to be where I now am." This is what youmust say. What happens after is your affair.'Petru asked no more, but went towards the house.By this time it was pitch dark, and there was only the ray of lightthat streamed through the windows to guide him, and at the sound of hisfootsteps two dogs began to bark loudly.'Which of those dogs is barking? Is he tired of life?' asked the goddessVenus.'It is I, O goddess!' replied Petru, rather timidly. 'I have lost my wayon the heath, and do not know where I am to sleep this night.''Where did you leave your horse?' asked the goddess sharply.Petru did not answer. He was not sure if he was to lie, or whether hehad better tell the truth.'Go away, my son, there is no place for you here,' replied she, drawingback from the window.Then Petru repeated hastily what the horse had told him to say, and nosooner had he done so than the goddess opened the window, and in gentletones she asked him:'Let me see this wreath, my son,' and Petru held it out to her.'Come into the house,' went on the goddess. 'do not fear the dogs, theyalways know my will.' And so they did, for as the young man passed theywagged their tails to him.'Good evening,' said Petru as he entered the house, and, seating himselfnear the fire, listened comfortably to whatever the goddess might chooseto talk about, which was for the most part the wickedness of men,with whom she was evidently very angry. But Petru agreed with her ineverything, as he had been taught was only polite.But was anybody ever so old as she! I do not know why Petru devoured herso with his eyes, unless it was to count the wrinkles on her face. butif so he would have had to live seven lives, and each life seven timesthe length of an ordinary one, before he could have reckoned them up.But Venus was joyful in her heart when she saw Petru's eyes fixed uponher.'Nothing was that is, and the world was not a world when I was born,'said she. 'When I grew up and the world came into being, everyonethought I was the most beautiful girl that ever was seen, though manyhated me for it. But every hundred years there came a wrinkle on myface. And now I am old.' Then she went on to tell Petru that she was thedaughter of an emperor, and their nearest neighbour was the Fairy of theDawn, with whom she had a violent quarrel, and with that she broke outinto loud abuse of her.Petru did not know what to do. He listened in silence for the mostpart, but now and then he would say, 'Yes, yes, you must have been badlytreated,' just for politeness' sake. what more could he do?'I will give you a task to perform, for you are brave, and will carry itthrough,' continued Venus, when she had talked a long time, and bothof them were getting sleepy. 'Close to the Fairy's house is a well, andwhoever drinks from it will blossom again like a rose. Bring me a flagonof it, and I will do anything to prove my gratitude. It is not easy! noone knows that better than I do! The kingdom is guarded on every side bywild beasts and horrible dragons. but I will tell you more about that,and I also have something to give you.' Then she rose and lifted the lidof an iron bound chest, and took out of it a very tiny flute.'Do you see this?' she asked. 'An old man gave it to me when I wasyoung: whoever listens to this flute goes to sleep, and nothing can wakehim. Take it and play on it as long as you remain in the kingdom of theFairy of the Dawn, and you will be safe.At this, Petru told her that he had another task to fulfil at the wellof the Fairy of the Dawn, and Venus was still better pleased when sheheard his tale.So Petru bade her good night, put the flute in its case, and laidhimself down in the lowest chamber to sleep.Before the dawn he was awake again, and his first care was to give toeach of his horses as much corn as he could eat, and then to lead themto the well to water. Then he dressed himself and made ready to start.'Stop,' cried Venus from her window, 'I have still a piece of adviceto give you. Leave one of your horses here, and only take three. Rideslowly till you get to the fairy's kingdom, then dismount and go onfoot. When you return, see that all your three horses remain on theroad, while you walk. But above all beware never to look the Fairyof the Dawn in the face, for she has eyes that will bewitch you, andglances that will befool you.She is hideous, more hideous than anything you can imagine, with owl'seyes, foxy face, and cat's claws. Do you hear? do you hear? Be sure younever look at her.'Petru thanked her, and managed to get off at last.Far, far away, where the heavens touch the earth, where the stars kissthe flowers, a soft red light was seen, such as the sky sometimes has inspring, only lovelier, more wonderful.That light was behind the palace of the Fairy of the Dawn, and it tookPetru two days and nights through flowery meadows to reach it. Andbesides, it was neither hot nor cold, bright nor dark, but something ofthem all, and Petru did not find the way a step too long.After some time Petru saw something white rise up out of the red of thesky, and when he drew nearer he saw it was a castle, and so splendidthat his eyes were dazzled when they looked at it. He did not know therewas such a beautiful castle in the world.But no time was to be lost, so he shook himself, jumped down from hishorse, and, leaving him on the dewy grass, began to play on his flute ashe walked along.He had hardly gone many steps when he stumbled over a huge giant, whohad been lulled to sleep by the music. This was one of the guards of thecastle! As he lay there on his back, he seemed so big that in spite ofPetru's haste he stopped to measure him.The further went Petru, the more strange and terrible were the sights hesaw lions, tigers, dragons with seven heads, all stretched out in thesun fast asleep. It is needless to say what the dragons were like, fornowadays everyone knows, and dragons are not things to joke about. Petruran through them like the wind. Was it haste or fear that spurred himon?At last he came to a river, but let nobody think for a moment that thisriver was like other rivers? Instead of water, there flowed milk,and the bottom was of precious stones and pearls, instead of sandand pebbles. And it ran neither fast nor slow, but both fast and slowtogether. And the river flowed round the castle, and on its banks sleptlions with iron teeth and claws. and beyond were gardens such as onlythe Fairy of the Dawn can have, and on the flowers slept a fairy! Allthis saw Petru from the other side.But how was he to get over? To be sure there was a bridge, but, even ifit had not been guarded by sleeping lions, it was plainly not meant forman to walk on. Who could tell what it was made of? It looked like softlittle woolly clouds!So he stood thinking what was to be done, for get across he must.After a while, he determined to take the risk, and strode back to thesleeping giant. 'Wake up, my brave man!' he cried, giving him a shake.The giant woke and stretched out his hand to pick up Petru, just as weshould catch a fly. But Petru played on his flute, and the giant fellback again. Petru tried this three times, and when he was satisfied thatthe giant was really in his power he took out a handkerchief, bound thetwo little fingers of the giant together, drew his sword, and cried forthe fourth time, 'Wake up, my brave man.'When the giant saw the trick which had been played on him he said toPetru. 'Do you call this a fair fight? Fight according to rules, if youreally are a hero!''I will by and by, but first I want to ask you a question! Will youswear that you will carry me over the river if I fight honourably withyou?' And the giant swore.When his hands were freed, the giant flung himself upon Petru, hoping tocrush him by his weight. But he had met his match. It was not yesterday,nor the day before, that Petru had fought his first battle, and he borehimself bravely.For three days and three nights the battle raged, and sometimes one hadthe upper hand, and sometimes the other, till at length they both laystruggling on the ground, but Petru was on top, with the point of hissword at the giant's throat.'Let me go! let me go!' shrieked he. 'I own that I am beaten!''Will you take me over the river?' asked Petru.'I will,' gasped the giant.'What shall I do to you if you break your word?''Kill me, any way you like! But let me live now.''Very well,' said Petru, and he bound the giant's left hand to his rightfoot, tied one handkerchief round his mouth to prevent him crying out,and another round his eyes, and led him to the river.Once they had reached the bank he stretched one leg over to the otherside, and, catching up Petru in the palm of his hand, set him down onthe further shore.'That is all right,' said Petru. Then he played a few notes on hisflute, and the giant went to sleep again. Even the fairies who had beenbathing a little lower down heard the music and fell asleep among theflowers on the bank. Petru saw them as he passed, and thought, 'If theyare so beautiful, why should the Fairy of the Dawn be so ugly?' But hedared not linger, and pushed on.And now he was in the wonderful gardens, which seemed more wonderfulstill than they had done from afar. But Petru could see no fadedflowers, nor any birds, as he hastened through them to the castle. Noone was there to bar his way, for all were asleep. Even the leaves hadceased to move.He passed through the courtyard, and entered the castle itself.What he beheld there need not be told, for all the world knows that thepalace of the Fairy of the Dawn is no ordinary place. Gold and preciousstones were as common as wood with us, and the stables where the horsesof the sun were kept were more splendid than the palace of the greatestemperor in the world.Petru went up the stairs and walked quickly through eight and fortyrooms, hung with silken stuffs, and all empty. In the forty ninth hefound the Fairy of the Dawn herself.In the middle of this room, which was as large as a church, Petru sawthe celebrated well that he had come so far to seek. It was a welljust like other wells, and it seemed strange that the Fairy of the Dawnshould have it in her own chamber. yet anyone could tell it had beenthere for hundreds of years. And by the well slept the Fairy of theDawn the Fairy of the Dawn herself!And as Petru looked at her the magic flute dropped by his side, and heheld his breath.Near the well was a table, on which stood bread made with does' milk,and a flagon of wine. It was the bread of strength and the wine ofyouth, and Petru longed for them. He looked once at the bread and onceat the wine, and then at the Fairy of the Dawn, still sleeping on hersilken cushions.As he looked a mist came over his senses. The fairy opened her eyesslowly and looked at Petru, who lost his head still further. but he justmanaged to remember his flute, and a few notes of it sent the Fairyto sleep again, and he kissed her thrice. Then he stooped and laid hisgolden wreath upon her forehead, ate a piece of the bread and drank acupful of the wine of youth, and this he did three times over. Then hefilled a flask with water from the well, and vanished swiftly.As he passed through the garden it seemed quite different from whatit was before. The flowers were lovelier, the streams ran quicker, thesunbeams shone brighter, and the fairies seemed gayer. And all this hadbeen caused by the three kisses Petru had given the Fairy of the Dawn.He passed everything safely by, and was soon seated in his saddle again.Faster than the wind, faster than thought, faster than longing, fasterthan hatred rode Petru. At length he dismounted, and, leaving his horsesat the roadside, went on foot to the house of Venus.The goddess Venus knew that he was coming, and went to meet him, bearingwith her white bread and red wine.'Welcome back, my prince,' said she.'Good day, and many thanks,' replied the young man, holding out theflask containing the magic water. She received it with joy, and after ashort rest Petru set forth, for he had no time to lose.He stopped a few minutes, as he had promised, with the Goddess ofThunder, and was taking a hasty farewell of her, when she called himback.'Stay, I have a warning to give you,' said she. 'Beware of your life.make friends with no man. do not ride fast, or let the water go out ofyour hand. believe no one, and flee flattering tongues. Go, and takecare, for the way is long, the world is bad, and you hold something veryprecious. But I will give you this cloth to help you. It is not muchto look at, but it is enchanted, and whoever carries it will never bestruck by lightning, pierced by a lance, or smitten with a sword, andthe arrows will glance off his body.'Petru thanked her and rode off, and, taking out his treasure box,inquired how matters were going at home. Not well, it said. The emperorwas blind altogether now, and Florea and Costan had besought him to givethe government of the kingdom into their hands. but he would not, sayingthat he did not mean to resign the government till he had washed hiseyes from the well of the Fairy of the Dawn. Then the brothers had goneto consult old Birscha, who told them that Petru was already on his wayhome bearing the water. They had set out to meet him, and would tryto take the magic water from him, and then claim as their reward thegovernment of the emperor.'You are lying!' cried Petru angrily, throwing the box on the ground,where it broke into a thousand pieces.It was not long before he began to catch glimpses of his native land,and he drew rein near a bridge, the better to look at it. He was stillgazing, when he heard a sound in the distance as if some one was callinghit by his name.'You, Petru!' it said.'On! on!' cried the horse. 'it will fare ill with you if you stop.''No, let us stop, and see who and what it is!' answered Petru, turninghis horse round, and coming face to face with his two brothers. He hadforgotten the warning given him by the Goddess of Thunder, and whenCostan and Florea drew near with soft and flattering words he jumpedstraight off his horse, and rushed to embrace them. He had a thousandquestions to ask, and a thousand things to tell. But his brown horsestood sadly hanging his head.'Petru, my dear brother,' at length said Florea, 'would it not be betterif we carried the water for you? Some one might try to take it from youon the road, while no one would suspect us.''So it would,' added Costan. 'Florea speaks well.' But Petru shook hishead, and told them what the Goddess of Thunder had said, and about thecloth she had given him. And both brothers understood there was only oneway in which they could kill him.At a stone's throw from where they stood ran a rushing stream, withclear deep pools.'Don't you feel thirsty, Costan?' asked Florea, winking at him.'Yes,' replied Costan, understanding directly what was wanted. 'Come,Petru, let us drink now we have the chance, and then we will set out onour way home. It is a good thing you have us with you, to protect youfrom harm.'The horse neighed, and Petru knew what it meant, and did not go with hisbrothers.No, he went home to his father, and cured his blindness. and as for hisbrothers, they never returned again.(From Rumanische Marchen.)