Cuentos Populars Catalans, per lo Dr. D. Francisco de S. Maspons yLabros (Barcelona: Libreria de Don Alvar Verdaguer 1885).Once upon a time there lived a man with one daughter and he made herwork hard all the day. One morning when she had finished everything hehad set her to do, he told her to go out into the woods and get some dryleaves and sticks to kindle a fire.The girl went out, and soon collected a large bundle, and then sheplucked at a sprig of sweet smelling rosemary for herself. But theharder she pulled the firmer seemed the plant, and at last, determinednot to be beaten, she gave one great tug, and the rosemary remained inher hands.Then she heard a voice close to her saying, 'Well?' and turning she sawbefore her a handsome young man, who asked why she had come to steal hisfirewood.The girl, who felt much confused, only managed to stammer out as anexcuse that her father had sent her.'Very well,' replied the young man. 'then come with me.'So he took her through the opening made by the torn up root, and theytravelled till they reached a beautiful palace, splendidly furnished,but only lighted from the top. And when they had entered he toldher that he was a great lord, and that never had he seen a maiden sobeautiful as she, and that if she would give him her heart they would bemarried and live happy for ever after.And the maiden said 'yes, she would,' and so they were married.The next day the old dame who looked after the house handed her all thekeys, but pointed her out one that she would do well never to use, forif she did the whole palace would fall to the ground, and the grasswould grow over it, and the damsel herself would be remembered no more.The bride promised to be careful, but in a little while, when there wasnothing left for her to do, she began to wonder what could be in thechest, which was opened by the key. As everybody knows, if we once beginto think we soon begin to do, and it was not very long before the keywas no longer in the maiden's hand but in the lock of the chest. But thelock was stiff and resisted all her efforts, and in the end she had tobreak it. And what was inside after all? Why, nothing but a serpent'sskin, which her husband, who was, unknown to her, a magician, put onwhen he was at work. and at the sight of it the girl was turning awayin disgust, when the earth shook violently under her feet, the palacevanished as if it had never been, and the bride found herself in themiddle of a field, not knowing where she was or whither to go. She burstinto a flood of bitter tears, partly at her own folly, but more for theloss of her husband, whom she dearly loved. Then, breaking a sprig ofrosemary off a bush hard by, she resolved, cost what it might, to seekhim through the world till she found him. So she walked and she walkedand she walked, till she arrived at a house built of straw. And sheknocked at the door, and asked if they wanted a servant. The mistresssaid she did, and if the girl was willing she might stay. But day by daythe poor maiden grew more and more sad, till at last her mistress beggedher to say what was the matter. Then she told her story how she wasgoing through the world seeking after her husband.And her mistress answered her, 'Where he is, none can tell better thanthe Sun, the Moon, and the Wind, for they go everywhere!'On hearing these words the damsel set forth once more, and walked tillshe reached the Golden Castle, where lived the Sun. And she knockedboldly at the door, saying, 'All hail, O Sun! I have come to ask if, ofyour charity, you will help me in my need. By my own fault have I falleninto these straits, and I am weary, for I seek my husband through thewide world.''Indeed!' spoke the Sun. 'Do you, rich as you are, need help? But thoughyou live in a palace without windows, the Sun enters everywhere, and heknows you.'Then the bride told him the whole story. and did not hide her ownill doing. And the Sun listened, and was sorry for her. and though hecould not tell her where to go, he gave her a nut, and bid her open itin a time of great distress. The damsel thanked him with all her heart,and departed, and walked and walked and walked, till she came to anothercastle, and knocked at the door which was opened by an old woman.'All hail!' said the girl. 'I have come, of your charity, to ask yourhelp!''It is my mistress, the Moon, you seek. I will tell her of your prayer.'So the Moon came out, and when she saw the maiden she knew her again,for she had watched her sleeping both in the cottage and in the palace.And she spake to her and said:'Do you, rich as you are, need help?'Then the girl told her the whole story, and the Moon listened, andwas sorry for her. and though she could not tell her where to find herhusband, she gave her an almond, and told her to crack it when she wasin great need. So the damsel thanked her, and departed, and walked andwalked and walked till she came to another castle. And she knocked atthe door, and said:'All hail! I have come to ask if, of your charity, you will help me inmy need.''It is my lord, the Wind, that you want,' answered the old woman whoopened it. 'I will tell him of your prayer.'And the Wind looked on her and knew her again, for he had seen her inthe cottage and in the palace, and he spake to her and said:'Do you, rich as you are, want help?'And she told him the whole story. And the Wind listened, and was sorryfor her, and he gave her a walnut that she was to eat in time of need.But the girl did not go as the Wind expected. She was tired and sad, andknew not where to turn, so she began to weep bitterly. The Wind wept toofor company, and said:'Don't be frightened. I will go and see if I can find out something.'And the Wind departed with a great noise and fuss, and in the twinklingof an eye he was back again, beaming with delight.'From what one person and another have let fall,' he exclaimed, 'I havecontrived to learn that he is in the palace of the king, who keeps himhidden lest anyone should see him. and that to morrow he is to marry theprincess, who, ugly creature that she is, has not been able to find anyman to wed her.'Who can tell the despair which seized the poor maiden when she heardthis news! As soon as she could speak she implored the Wind to do allhe could to get the wedding put off for two or three days, for it wouldtake her all that time to reach the palace of the king.The Wind gladly promised to do what he could, and as he travelled muchfaster than the maiden he soon arrived at the palace, where he foundfive tailors working night and day at the wedding clothes of theprincess.Down came the Wind right in the middle of their lace and satin andtrimmings of pearl! Away they all went whiz! through the open windows,right up into the tops of the trees, across the river, among the dancingears of corn! After them ran the tailors, catching, jumping, climbing,but all to no purpose! The lace was torn, the satin stained, the pearlsknocked off! There was nothing for it but to go to the shops to buyfresh, and to begin all over again! It was plainly quite impossible thatthe wedding clothes could be ready next day.However, the king was much too anxious to see his daughter married tolisten to any excuses, and he declared that a dress must be put togethersomehow for the bride to wear. But when he went to look at the princess,she was such a figure that he agreed that it would be unfitting for herposition to be seen in such a gown, and he ordered the ceremony and thebanquet to be postponed for a few hours, so that the tailors might takethe dress to pieces and make it fit.But by this time the maiden had arrived footsore and weary at thecastle, and as soon as she reached the door she cracked her nut anddrew out of it the most beautiful mantle in the world. Then she rang thebell, and asked:'Is not the princess to be married to day?''Yes, she is.''Ask her if she would like to buy this mantle.'And when the princess saw the mantle she was delighted, for her weddingmantle had been spoilt with all the other things, and it was too late tomake another. So she told the maiden to ask what price she would, and itshould be given her.The maiden fixed a large sum, many pieces of gold, but the princess hadset her heart on the mantle, and gave it readily.Now the maiden hid her gold in the pocket of her dress, and turned awayfrom the castle. The moment she was out of sight she broke her almond,and drew from it the most magnificent petticoats that ever were seen.Then she went back to the castle, and asked if the princess wished tobuy any petticoats. No sooner did the princess cast her eyes on thepetticoats than she declared they were even more beautiful than themantle, and that she would give the maiden whatever price she wanted forthem. And the maiden named many pieces of gold, which the princess paidher gladly, so pleased was she with her new possessions.Then the girl went down the steps where none could watch her andcracked her walnut, and out came the most splendid court dress that anydressmaker had ever invented. and, carrying it carefully in her arms,she knocked at the door, and asked if the princess wished to buy a courtdress.When the message was delivered the princess sprang to her feet withdelight, for she had been thinking that after all it was not much use tohave a lovely mantle and elegant petticoats if she had no dress, and sheknew the tailors would never be ready in time. So she sent at once tosay she would buy the dress, and what sum did the maiden want for it.This time the maiden answered that the price of the dress was thepermission to see the bridegroom.The princess was not at all pleased when she heard the maiden's reply,but, as she could not do without the dress, she was forced to give in,and contented herself with thinking that after all it did not mattermuch.So the maiden was led to the rooms which had been given to her husband.And when she came near she touched him with the sprig of rosemary thatshe carried. and his memory came back, and he knew her, and kissed her,and declared that she was his true wife, and that he loved her and noother.Then they went back to the maiden's home, and grew to be very old, andlived happy all the days of their life.