In olden times, when the castle was still standing on the hillover there, a count lived there with his wife. They had possessions inabundance, and they would have been the happiest couple, if they had had achild and domestic peace.From the earliest morning until late in the evening the count and thecountess quarreled and squabbled, and he never called his wife anythingbut a slimy snake.Thus it continued for many long years, and the count became worse thanever, until his wife unexpectedly became pregnant. Then the cruel lordturned more friendly and rejoiced in his future heir. This continued forseveral weeks, and everyone thought that peace had come to the castleforever, but then it turned worse than ever, for when the countess's timecame, she gave birth to a snake.When the count saw his sweet hopes thus shattered he became angrierthan ever. He ranted and raged like a wild animal, accused his wife ofbeing a wicked witch in league with the devil, and wanted to kill thesnake without further ado. The countess pled so long and fervently thather child be allowed to live at least long enough to see what would becomeof it, that he finally relented, and did not kill the snake. But heremained angry from then on, and finally went his own way, paying no moreheed to his wife or his child.The countess, on the other hand, loved the snake as much as if it hadbeen the most beautiful boy and stood next to its cradle day and night.The worm grew and grew, and the countess loved it more and more, caringfor it like her own child. Thus it continued for twenty years, and thesnake had not yet left its room.After turning twenty years of age, and with the countess seated next toit in its room, the snake one evening suddenly opened its mouth and beganto speak. "My dear mother," it said, "I am now twenty years old and wouldlike to get married. I therefore ask you to find me a bride."The countess was very surprised to hear her child speak, and even moreso to hear what it had said. She promised to fulfill its wish and beganseeking a bride for her snake. But that was a difficult match, for eventhe most marriage crazy girls wanted nothing to do with such anarrangement.The snake repeated its wish every day, and the countess looked evermore frantically for a bride for her child, but she could not findone.Finally she thought of the hen girl, who was a sweet and obedientchild. The countess thought she certainly would accept the proposal andconsider it a stroke of good luck to thus become a countess. But themother calculated badly, because the hen girl wanted nothing at all to dowith the proposal when it was presented to her. The girl thought that ifshe behaved well she would get along in the world, and that she couldnever love a snake. She would rather remain a poor hen girl and eat blackbread than to lead the richest life at the side of such an uncannyanimal.Upon hearing this the countess grew angry with the poor girl and said,"If you reject your good fortune, I'll find someone else."But that was not to be, for the countess came away with a long facefrom every place that she sought a bride for her child.Recognizing the situation she returned to the dear, pious hen girl andaddressed her with sweet and kind words. "Please don't stupidly stand inthe way of your own happiness," she said. "If you marry my child you willbecome countess and will be taken care of as long as you live. Whatopportunities will you have if you remain as you are now? You will have tofeed the hens and will remain a lowly servant. But if you follow myadvice, honor and wealth will smile upon you."Thus argued the countess until the poor girl felt like she had a millwheel turning back and forth in her head, and she did not know what sheshould do. Seeing the girl's indecision, the countess pressed stillharder, until finally the girl   in order to free herself from thenoblewoman   asked for three days' time to think about it. The countesswas satisfied with this and left the child alone.However, she returned the very next day and asked the child for herdecision. She did the same thing the second day. The child did not knowhow to help herself and thought, "If heaven does not advise me, I do notknow what to do. If I do not marry the snake, I'll never have any peace,for this woman is so persistent, but I do not want to marry it."Burdened with these doubts the girl went out into the castle passagewaywhere there stood in the corner a beautiful statue of the Mother of God.The pious girl had a special devotion to this statue and had often foundsolace there on other occasions. Therefore every time she passed it shesaid an Ave Maria and always felt better and stronger. This time she kneltdown before the Mother of God and prayed most fervently for advice as towhat she should do in this case.After praying for a long time, the girl thought that the Mother of Godshould either nod a yes or shake a no, when the miraculous statue suddenlybegan to speak, saying, "Your prayer has been heard. Marry the countess'schild, for you have been chosen to redeem it. It is a snake because of thesinful life of its parents, but you can give it a human form. So listen tome! On your wedding night when you and the snake are alone in the bridalchamber it will say to you, 'Get undressed!' Then you must answer, 'Youget undressed first,' and the snake will take off a skin. Then it will sayagain, 'Get undressed,' and you must again answer him, 'You get undressedfirst.' Then the snake will take off another skin. This must happen seventimes, and when you say for the seventh time, 'You get undressed first,'the snake will take off its seventh skin, and the count's son will beredeemed and will stand before you as a handsome youth."Thus spoke the statue, and then remained silent.The distressed girl was now much relieved, and she felt at peace withherself. Thanking heaven for helping her, she went to the countess andtold her that she wanted to marry the snake. The countess was overjoyed.She called the hen girl her daughter and hugged her. Then she went to herchild and introduced his bride to him.Fearing that the girl might change her mind, the countess wanted to seethe couple married that very day. Thus she gave the bride jewelry andclothing and told her to dress herself festively. As soon as the girl cameback into the room   now washed, dressed, and bejeweled   the countesssent for the chaplain, who married the couple. The countess was very happyand wished the bridal couple good luck. The snake too was in good spirits,caressing the bride in a manner that made one wonder.In the meanwhile evening came, and the stars appeared in the sky. Thecountess took leave of her children and left them alone.As soon as the snake saw that it was alone in the room with its brideit said, "Get undressed."The bride replied, "You get undressed first."The snake seemed to be happy with this answer and immediately peeledoff a skin. Then it said again, "Get undressed."The bride replied, "You get undressed first," and the snake pulled offanother skin.Then it said again, "Get undressed."Once again the bride answered as she had the first two times. And thusit continued seven times, and when the bride said for the seventh time,"You get undressed first," the snake pulled off its seventh and last skin,and behold, instead of a snake, there stood before her a marvelouslyhandsome youth, better looking than any knight she had ever seen.He rushed toward her, embraced her and caressed her and called her hisdearly beloved bride and his redeemer. Then they climbed into the highbridal bed and slept blissfully until morning dawned and people beganscurrying about the courtyard.After daybreak when the handsome couple came out of the bedroom, thecountess was already standing at their door, for she was very curious howtheir wedding night had progressed. To her great surprise she saw the mosthandsome man there instead of an ugly snake. At first she could almost notbelieve her eyes. But when the handsome knight called her mother andkissed her hand she recognized that he was indeed her transformed son, andher joy knew no bounds.The wedding was now celebrated with jubilation and joy like in the nextlife. But their happiness did not last forever. When the old countesslooked at her son and saw how handsome he was, it seemed to her that hewas too good for the hen girl, and she was envious of her daughter in lawfor her husband. She became ever more out of sorts and jealous, and shetried to talk her son into rejecting his wife. The young count, however,loved his wife tenderly. He did not listen to his mother's advice andremained true to his wife.When his mother again reproached him and tried to convince him toreject his wife, he said, "I have my wife to thank for my redemption.Therefore I will always be thankful and true to her."After hearing this the countess recognized that her attempts were invain, and she put a good face on her evil game. And the young couple livedhappily for a long, long time.(Orally from Absam)