Once upon a time there lived near a forest a man and his wife and twogirls. one girl was the daughter of the man, and the other the daughterof his wife. and the man's daughter was good and beautiful, but thewoman's daughter was cross and ugly. However, her mother did not knowthat, but thought her the most bewitching maiden that ever was seen.One day the man called to his daughter and bade her come with him intothe forest to cut wood. They worked hard all day, but in spite of thechopping they were very cold, for it rained heavily, and when theyreturned home, they were wet through. Then, to his vexation, the manfound that he had left his axe behind him, and he knew that if it layall night in the mud it would become rusty and useless. So he said tohis wife:'I have dropped my axe in the forest, bid your daughter go and fetchit, for mine has worked hard all day and is both wet and weary.'But the wife answered:'If your daughter is wet already, it is all the more reason that sheshould go and get the axe. Besides, she is a great strong girl, and alittle rain will not hurt her, while my daughter would be sure to catcha bad cold.'By long experience the man knew there was no good saying any more, andwith a sigh he told the poor girl she must return to the forest for theaxe.The walk took some time, for it was very dark, and her shoes oftenstuck in the mud, but she was brave as well as beautiful and neverthought of turning back merely because the path was both difficult andunpleasant. At last, with her dress torn by brambles that she couldnot see, and her fact scratched by the twigs on the trees, she reachedthe spot where she and her father had been cutting in the morning, andfound the axe in the place he had left it. To her surprise, threelittle doves were sitting on the handle, all of them looking very sad.'You poor little things,' said the girl, stroking them. 'Why do yousit there and get wet? Go and fly home to your nest, it will be muchwarmer than this. but first eat this bread, which I saved from mydinner, and perhaps you will feel happier. It is my father's axe youare sitting on, and I must take it back as fast as I can, or I shallget a terrible scolding from my stepmother.' She then crumbled thebread on the ground, and was pleased to see the doves flutter quitecheerfully towards it.'Good bye,' she said, picking up the axe, and went her way homewards.By the time they had finished all the crumbs the doves felt mustbetter, and were able to fly back to their nest in the top of a tree.'That is a good girl,' said one. 'I really was too weak to stretch outa wing before she came. I should like to do something to show howgrateful I am.''Well, let us give her a wreath of flowers that will never fade as longas she wears it,' cried another.'And let the tiniest singing birds in the world sit amongst theflowers,' rejoined the third.'Yes, that will do beautifully,' said the first. And when the girlstepped into her cottage a wreath of rosebuds was on her head, and acrowd of little birds were singing unseen.The father, who was sitting by the fire, thought that, in spite of hermuddy clothes, he had never seen his daughter looking so lovely. butthe stepmother and the other girl grew wild with envy.'How absurd to walk about on such a pouring night, dressed up likethat,' she remarked crossly, and roughly pulled off the wreath as shespoke, to place it on her own daughter. As she did so the roses becamewithered and brown, and the birds flew out of the window.'See what a trumpery thing it is!' cried the stepmother. 'and now takeyour supper and go to bed, for it is near upon midnight.'But though she pretended to despise the wreath, she longed none theless for her daughter to have one like it.Now it happened that the next evening the father, who had been alone inthe forest, came back a second time without his axe. The stepmother'sheart was glad when she saw this, and she said quite mildly:'Why, you have forgotten your axe again, you careless man! But nowyour daughter shall stay at home, and mine shall go and bring it back'.and throwing a cloak over the girl's shoulders, she bade her hasten tothe forest.With a very ill grace the damsel set forth, grumbling to herself as shewent. for though she wished for the wreath, she did not at all want thetrouble of getting it.By the time she reached the spot where her stepfather had been cuttingthe wood the girl was in a very bad temper indeed, and when she caughtsight of the axe, there were the three little doves, with droopingheads and soiled, bedraggled feathers, sitting on the handle.'You dirty creatures,' cried she, 'get away at once, or I will throwstones at you! And the doves spread their wings in a fright and flewup to the very top of a tree, their bodies shaking with anger.'What shall we do to revenge ourselves on her?' asked the smallest ofthe doves, 'we were never treated like that before.''Never,' said the biggest dove. 'We must find some way of paying herback in her own coin!''I know,' answered the middle dove. 'she shall never be able to sayanything but "dirty creatures" to the end of her life.''Oh, how clever of you! That will do beautifully,' exclaimed the othertwo. And they flapped their wings and clucked so loud with delight,and made such a noise, that they woke up all the birds in the treesclose by.'What in the world is the matter?' asked the birds sleepily.'That is our secret,' said the doves.Meanwhile the girl had reached home crosser than ever. but as soon asher mother heard her lift the latch of the door she ran out to hear heradventures. 'Well, did you get the wreath?' cried she.'Dirty creatures!' answered her daughter.'Don't speak to me like that! What do you mean?' asked the motheragain.'Dirty creatures!' repeated the daughter, and nothing else could shesay.Then the woman saw that something evil had befallen her, and turned inher rage to her stepdaughter.'You are at the bottom of this, I know,' she cried. and as the fatherwas out of the way she took a stick and beat the girl till she screamedwith pain and went to bed sobbing.If the poor girl's life had been miserable before, it was ten timesworse now, for the moment her father's back was turned the othersteased and tormented her from morning till night. and their fury wasincreased by the sight of her wreath, which the doves had placed againon her head.Things went on like this for some weeks, when, one day, as the king'sson was riding through the forest, he heard some strange birds singingmore sweetly than birds had ever sung before. He tied his horse to atree, and followed where the sound led him, and, to his surprise, hesaw before him a beautiful girl chopping wood, with a wreath of pinkrose buds, out of which the singing came. Standing in the shelter of atree, he watched her a long while, and then, hat in hand, he went upand spoke to her.'Fair maiden, who are you, and who gave you that wreath of singingroses?' asked he, for the birds were so tiny that till you lookedclosely you never saw them.'I live in a hut on the edge of the forest,' she answered, blushing,for she had never spoken to a prince before. 'As to the wreath, I knownot how it came there, unless it may be the gift of some doves whom Ifed when they were starving! The prince was delighted with thisanswer, which showed the goodness of the girl's heart, and besides hehad fallen in love with her beauty, and would not be content till shepromised to return with him to the palace, and become his bride. Theold king was naturally disappointed at his son's choice of a wife, ashe wished him to marry a neighbouring princess. but as from his birththe prince had always done exactly as he like, nothing was said and asplendid wedding feast was got ready.The day after her marriage the bride sent a messenger, bearing handsomepresents to her father, and telling him of the good fortune which hadbefallen her. As may be imagined, the stepmother and her daughter wereso filled with envy that they grew quite ill, and had to take to theirbeds, and nobody would have been sorry it they had never got up again.but that did not happen. At length, however, they began to feelbetter, for the mother invented a plan by which she could be revengedon the girl who had never done her any harm.Her plan was this. In the town where she had lived before she wasmarried there was an old witch, who had more skill in magic that anyother witch she knew. To this witch she would go and beg her to makeher a mask with the face of her stepdaughter, and when she had the maskthe rest would be easy. She told her daughter what she meant to do,and although the daughter could only say 'dirty creatures,' in answer,she nodded and smiled and looked well pleased.Everything fell out exactly as the woman had hoped. By the aid of hermagic mirror the witch beheld the new princess walking in her gardensin a dress of green silk, and in a few minutes had produced a mask solike her, that very few people could have told the difference.However, she counselled the woman that when her daughter first woreit  for that, of course, was what she intended her to do she hadbetter pretend that she had a toothache, and cover her head with a laceveil. The woman thanked her and paid her well, and returned to herhut, carrying the mask under her cloak.In a few days she heard that a great hunt was planned, and the princewould leave the palace very early in the morning, so that his wifewould be alone all day. This was a chance not to be missed, and takingher daughter with her she went up to the palace, where she had neverbeen before. The princess was too happy in her new home to rememberall that she had suffered in the old one, and she welcomed them bothgladly, and gave them quantities of beautiful things to take back withthem. At last she took them down to the shore to see a pleasure boatwhich her husband had had made for her. and here, the woman seizing heropportunity, stole softly behind the girl and pushed her off the rockon which she was standing, into the deep water, where she instantlysank to the bottom. Then she fastened the mask on her daughter, flungover her shoulders a velvet cloak, which the princess had let fall, andfinally arranged a lace veil over her head.'Rest your cheek on your hand, as if you were in pain, when the princereturns,' said the mother. 'and be careful not to speak, whatever youdo. I will go back to the witch and see if she cannot take off thespell laid on you by those horrible birds. Ah! why did I not think ofit before!'No sooner had the prince entered the palace than he hastened to theprincess's apartments, where he found her lying on the sofa apparentlyin great pain.'My dearest wife, what is the matter with you?' he cried, kneeling downbeside her, and trying to take her hand. but she snatched it away, andpointing to her cheek murmured something he could not catch.'What is it? tell me! Is the pain bad? When did it begin? Shall Isend for your ladies to bath the place?' asked the prince, pouring outthese and a dozen other questions, to which the girl only shook herhead.'But I can't leave you like this,' he continued, starting up, 'I mustsummon all the court physicians to apply soothing balsams to the soreplace! And as he spoke he sprang to his feet to go in search of them.This so frightened the pretended wife, who knew that if the physiciansonce came near her the trick would at once be discovered, that sheforgot her mother's counsel not to speak, and forgot even the spellthat had been laid upon her, and catching hold of the prince's tunic,she cried in tones of entreaty: 'Dirty creatures!'The young man stopped, not able to believe his ears, but supposed thatpain had made the princess cross, as it sometimes does. However, heguessed somehow that she wised to be left alone, so he only said:'Well, I dare say a little sleep will do you good, if you can manage toget it, and that you will wake up better to morrow.'Now, that night happened to be very hot and airless, and the prince,after vainly trying to rest, at length got up and went to the window.Suddenly he beheld in the moonlight a form with a wreath of roses onher head rise out of the sea below him and step on to the sands,holding out her arms as she did so towards the palace.'That maiden is strangely like my wife,' thought he. 'I must see hercloser! And he hastened down to the water. But when he got there,the princess, for she indeed it was, had disappeared completely, and hebegan to wonder if his eyes had deceived him.The next morning he went to the false bride's room, but her ladies toldhim she would neither speak nor get up, though she ate everything theyset before her. The prince was sorely perplexed as to what could bethe matter with her, for naturally he could not guess that she wasexpecting her mother to return every moment, and to remove the spellthe doves had laid upon her, and meanwhile was afraid to speak lest sheshould betray herself. At length he made up his mind to summon all thecourt physicians. he did not tell her what he was going to do, lest itshould make her worse, but he went himself and begged the four learnedleeches attached to the king's person to follow him to the princess'sapartments. Unfortunately, as they entered, the princess was soenraged at the sight of them that she forgot all about the doves, andshrieked out: 'Dirty creatures! dirty creatures!' which so offended thephysicians that they left the room at once, and nothing that the princecould say would prevail on them to remain. He then tried to persuadehis wife to send them a message that she was sorry for her rudeness,but not a word would she say.Late that evening, when he had performed all the tiresome duties whichfall to the lot of every prince, the young man was leaning out of hiswindow, refreshing himself with the cool breezes that blew off the sea.His thoughts went back to the scene of the morning, and he wonderedif, after all, he had not made a great mistake in marrying a low bornwife, however beautiful she might be. How could he have imagined thatthe quiet, gentle girl who had been so charming a companion to himduring the first days of their marriage, could have become in a day therude, sulky woman, who could not control her temper even to benefitherself. One thing was clear, if she did not change her conduct veryshortly he would have to send her away from court.He was thinking these thoughts, when his eyes fell on the sea beneathhim, and there, as before, was the figure that so closely resembled hiswife, standing with her feet in the water, holding out her arms to him.'Wait for me! Wait for me! Wait for me!' he cried. not even knowinghe was speaking. But when he reached the shore there was nothing to beseen but the shadows cast by the moonlight.A state ceremonial in a city some distance off caused the prince toride away at daybreak, and he left without seeing his wife again.'Perhaps she may have come to her senses by to morrow,' said he tohimself. 'and, anyhow, if I am going to send her back to her father, itmight be better if we did not meet in the meantime! Then he put thematter from his mind, and kept his thoughts on the duty that lay beforehim.It was nearly midnight before he returned to the palace, but, insteadof entering, he went down to the shore and hid behind a rock. He hadscarcely done so when the girl came out of the sea, and stretched outher arms towards his window. In an instant the prince had seized herhand, and though she made a frightened struggle to reach the water forshe in her turn had had a spell laid upon her he held her fast.'You are my own wife, and I shall never let you go,' he said. But thewords were hardly out of his mouth when he found that it was a harethat he was holding by the paw. Then the hare changed into a fish, andthe fish into a bird, and the bird into a slimy wriggling snake. Thistime the prince's hand nearly opened of itself, but with a strongeffort he kept his fingers shut, and drawing his sword cut off itshead, when the spell was broken, and the girl stood before him as hehad seen her first, the wreath upon her head and the birds singing forjoy.The very next morning the stepmother arrived at the palace with anointment that the old witch had given her to place upon her daughter'stongue, which would break the dove's spell, if the rightful bride hadreally been drowned in the sea. if not, then it would be useless. Themother assured her that she had seen her stepdaughter sink, and thatthere was no fear that she would ever come up again. but, to make allquite safe, the old woman might bewitch the girl. and so she did.After that the wicked stepmother travelled all through the night to getto the palace as soon as possible, and made her way straight into herdaughter's room.'I have got it! I have got it!' she cried triumphantly, and laid theointment on her daughter's tongue.'Now what do you say?' she asked proudly.'Dirty creatures! dirty creatures!' answered the daughter. and themother wrung her hands and wept, as she knew that all her plans hadfailed.At this moment the prince entered with his real wife. 'You bothdeserved death,' he said, 'and if it were left to me, you should haveit. But the princess has begged me to spare your lives, so you will beput into a ship and carried off to a desert island, where you will staytill you die.'Then the ship was made ready and the wicked woman and her daughter wereplaced in it, and it sailed away, and no more was heard of them. Butthe prince and his wife lived together long and happily, and ruledtheir people well.