In China, you know, the emperor is a Chinese, and all thoseabout him are Chinamen also. The story I am going to tell you happeneda great many years ago, so it is well to hear it now before it isforgotten. The emperor's palace was the most beautiful in the world.It was built entirely of porcelain, and very costly, but so delicateand brittle that whoever touched it was obliged to be careful. Inthe garden could be seen the most singular flowers, with pretty silverbells tied to them, which tinkled so that every one who passed couldnot help noticing the flowers. Indeed, everything in the emperor'sgarden was remarkable, and it extended so far that the gardenerhimself did not know where it ended. Those who travelled beyond itslimits knew that there was a noble forest, with lofty trees, slopingdown to the deep blue sea, and the great ships sailed under the shadowof its branches. In one of these trees lived a nightingale, who sangso beautifully that even the poor fishermen, who had so many otherthings to do, would stop and listen. Sometimes, when they went atnight to spread their nets, they would hear her sing, and say, "Oh, isnot that beautiful?" But when they returned to their fishing, theyforgot the bird until the next night. Then they would hear it again,and exclaim "Oh, how beautiful is the nightingale's song!"Travellers from every country in the world came to the city of theemperor, which they admired very much, as well as the palace andgardens. but when they heard the nightingale, they all declared itto be the best of all. And the travellers, on their return home,related what they had seen. and learned men wrote books, containingdescriptions of the town, the palace, and the gardens. but they didnot forget the nightingale, which was really the greatest wonder.And those who could write poetry composed beautiful verses about thenightingale, who lived in a forest near the deep sea. The bookstravelled all over the world, and some of them came into the handsof the emperor. and he sat in his golden chair, and, as he read, henodded his approval every moment, for it pleased him to find such abeautiful description of his city, his palace, and his gardens. Butwhen he came to the words, "the nightingale is the most beautiful ofall," he exclaimed, "What is this? I know nothing of anynightingale. Is there such a bird in my empire? and even in my garden?I have never heard of it. Something, it appears, may be learnt frombooks."Then he called one of his lords in waiting, who was sohigh bred, that when any in an inferior rank to himself spoke tohim, or asked him a question, he would answer, "Pooh," which meansnothing."There is a very wonderful bird mentioned here, called anightingale," said the emperor. "they say it is the best thing in mylarge kingdom. Why have I not been told of it?""I have never heard the name," replied the cavalier. "she hasnot been presented at court.""It is my pleasure that she shall appear this evening." said theemperor. "the whole world knows what I possess better than I domyself.""I have never heard of her," said the cavalier. "yet I willendeavor to find her."But where was the nightingale to be found? The nobleman went upstairs and down, through halls and passages. yet none of those whom hemet had heard of the bird. So he returned to the emperor, and saidthat it must be a fable, invented by those who had written the book."Your imperial majesty," said he, "cannot believe everything containedin books. sometimes they are only fiction, or what is called the blackart.""But the book in which I have read this account," said theemperor, "was sent to me by the great and mighty emperor of Japan, andtherefore it cannot contain a falsehood. I will hear thenightingale, she must be here this evening. she has my highestfavor. and if she does not come, the whole court shall be trampledupon after supper is ended.""Tsing pe!" cried the lord in waiting, and again he ran up anddown stairs, through all the halls and corridors. and half the courtran with him, for they did not like the idea of being trampled upon.There was a great inquiry about this wonderful nightingale, whom allthe world knew, but who was unknown to the court.At last they met with a poor little girl in the kitchen, who said,"Oh, yes, I know the nightingale quite well. indeed, she can sing.Every evening I have permission to take home to my poor sick motherthe scraps from the table. she lives down by the sea shore, and as Icome back I feel tired, and I sit down in the wood to rest, and listento the nightingale's song. Then the tears come into my eyes, and it isjust as if my mother kissed me.""Little maiden," said the lord in waiting, "I will obtain foryou constant employment in the kitchen, and you shall havepermission to see the emperor dine, if you will lead us to thenightingale. for she is invited for this evening to the palace." Soshe went into the wood where the nightingale sang, and half thecourt followed her. As they went along, a cow began lowing."Oh," said a young courtier, "now we have found her. whatwonderful power for such a small creature. I have certainly heard itbefore.""No, that is only a cow lowing," said the little girl. "we are along way from the place yet."Then some frogs began to croak in the marsh."Beautiful," said the young courtier again. "Now I hear it,tinkling like little church bells.""No, those are frogs," said the little maiden. "but I think weshall soon hear her now:" and presently the nightingale began to sing."Hark, hark! there she is," said the girl, "and there she sits,"she added, pointing to a little gray bird who was perched on a bough."Is it possible?" said the lord in waiting, "I never imagined itwould be a little, plain, simple thing like that. She has certainlychanged color at seeing so many grand people around her.""Little nightingale," cried the girl, raising her voice, "our mostgracious emperor wishes you to sing before him.""With the greatest pleasure," said the nightingale, and began tosing most delightfully."It sounds like tiny glass bells," said the lord in waiting,"and see how her little throat works. It is surprising that we havenever heard this before. she will be a great success at court.""Shall I sing once more before the emperor?" asked thenightingale, who thought he was present."My excellent little nightingale," said the courtier, "I havethe great pleasure of inviting you to a court festival this evening,where you will gain imperial favor by your charming song.""My song sounds best in the green wood," said the bird. butstill she came willingly when she heard the emperor's wish.The palace was elegantly decorated for the occasion. The walls andfloors of porcelain glittered in the light of a thousand lamps.Beautiful flowers, round which little bells were tied, stood in thecorridors: what with the running to and fro and the draught, thesebells tinkled so loudly that no one could speak to be heard. In thecentre of the great hall, a golden perch had been fixed for thenightingale to sit on. The whole court was present, and the littlekitchen maid had received permission to stand by the door. She was notinstalled as a real court cook. All were in full dress, and everyeye was turned to the little gray bird when the emperor nodded toher to begin. The nightingale sang so sweetly that the tears came intothe emperor's eyes, and then rolled down his cheeks, as her songbecame still more touching and went to every one's heart. Theemperor was so delighted that he declared the nightingale shouldhave his gold slipper to wear round her neck, but she declined thehonor with thanks: she had been sufficiently rewarded already. "I haveseen tears in an emperor's eyes," she said, "that is my richestreward. An emperor's tears have wonderful power, and are quitesufficient honor for me." and then she sang again more enchantinglythan ever."That singing is a lovely gift." said the ladies of the court toeach other. and then they took water in their mouths to make themutter the gurgling sounds of the nightingale when they spoke to anyone, so that they might fancy themselves nightingales. And the footmenand chambermaids also expressed their satisfaction, which is sayinga great deal, for they are very difficult to please. In fact thenightingale's visit was most successful. She was now to remain atcourt, to have her own cage, with liberty to go out twice a day, andonce during the night. Twelve servants were appointed to attend her onthese occasions, who each held her by a silken string fastened toher leg. There was certainly not much pleasure in this kind of flying.The whole city spoke of the wonderful bird, and when two peoplemet, one said "nightin," and the other said "gale," and theyunderstood what was meant, for nothing else was talked of. Elevenpeddlers' children were named after her, but not of them could singa note.One day the emperor received a large packet on which was written"The Nightingale." "Here is no doubt a new book about our celebratedbird," said the emperor. But instead of a book, it was a work of artcontained in a casket, an artificial nightingale made to look like aliving one, and covered all over with diamonds, rubies, and sapphires.As soon as the artificial bird was wound up, it could sing like thereal one, and could move its tail up and down, which sparkled withsilver and gold. Round its neck hung a piece of ribbon, on which waswritten "The Emperor of China's nightingale is poor compared with thatof the Emperor of Japan's.""This is very beautiful," exclaimed all who saw it, and he who hadbrought the artificial bird received the title of "Imperialnightingale bringer in chief.""Now they must sing together," said the court, "and what a duet itwill be." But they did not get on well, for the real nightingalesang in its own natural way, but the artificial bird sang onlywaltzes."That is not a fault," said the music master, "it is quite perfectto my taste," so then it had to sing alone, and was as successful asthe real bird. besides, it was so much prettier to look at, for itsparkled like bracelets and breast pins. Three and thirty times did itsing the same tunes without being tired. the people would gladlyhave heard it again, but the emperor said the living nightingale oughtto sing something. But where was she? No one had noticed her whenshe flew out at the open window, back to her own green woods."What strange conduct," said the emperor, when her flight had beendiscovered. and all the courtiers blamed her, and said she was avery ungrateful creature."But we have the best bird after all," said one, and then theywould have the bird sing again, although it was the thirty fourth timethey had listened to the same piece, and even then they had not learntit, for it was rather difficult. But the music master praised the birdin the highest degree, and even asserted that it was better than areal nightingale, not only in its dress and the beautiful diamonds,but also in its musical power. "For you must perceive, my chief lordand emperor, that with a real nightingale we can never tell what isgoing to be sung, but with this bird everything is settled. It canbe opened and explained, so that people may understand how the waltzesare formed, and why one note follows upon another.""This is exactly what we think," they all replied, and then themusic master received permission to exhibit the bird to the peopleon the following Sunday, and the emperor commanded that they should bepresent to hear it sing. When they heard it they were like peopleintoxicated. however it must have been with drinking tea, which isquite a Chinese custom. They all said "Oh!" and held up theirforefingers and nodded, but a poor fisherman, who had heard the realnightingale, said, "it sounds prettily enough, and the melodies areall alike. yet there seems something wanting, I cannot exactly tellwhat."And after this the real nightingale was banished from theempire, and the artificial bird placed on a silk cushion close tothe emperor's bed. The presents of gold and precious stones whichhad been received with it were round the bird, and it was now advancedto the title of "Little Imperial Toilet Singer," and to the rank ofNo. 1 on the left hand. for the emperor considered the left side, onwhich the heart lies, as the most noble, and the heart of an emperoris in the same place as that of other people.The music master wrote a work, in twenty five volumes, about theartificial bird, which was very learned and very long, and full of themost difficult Chinese words. yet all the people said they had readit, and understood it, for fear of being thought stupid and havingtheir bodies trampled upon.So a year passed, and the emperor, the court, and all the otherChinese knew every little turn in the artificial bird's song. andfor that same reason it pleased them better. They could sing withthe bird, which they often did. The street boys sang, "Zi zi zi,cluck, cluck, cluck," and the emperor himself could sing it also. Itwas really most amusing.One evening, when the artificial bird was singing its best, andthe emperor lay in bed listening to it, something inside the birdsounded "whizz." Then a spring cracked. "Whir r r r" went all thewheels, running round, and then the music stopped. The emperorimmediately sprang out of bed, and called for his physician. butwhat could he do? Then they sent for a watchmaker. and, after agreat deal of talking and examination, the bird was put into somethinglike order. but he said that it must be used very carefully, as thebarrels were worn, and it would be impossible to put in new oneswithout injuring the music. Now there was great sorrow, as the birdcould only be allowed to play once a year. and even that was dangerousfor the works inside it. Then the music master made a little speech,full of hard words, and declared that the bird was as good as ever.and, of course no one contradicted him.Five years passed, and then a real grief came upon the land. TheChinese really were fond of their emperor, and he now lay so illthat he was not expected to live. Already a new emperor had beenchosen and the people who stood in the street asked thelord in waiting how the old emperor was. but he only said, "Pooh!" andshook his head.Cold and pale lay the emperor in his royal bed. the whole courtthought he was dead, and every one ran away to pay homage to hissuccessor. The chamberlains went out to have a talk on the matter, andthe ladies' maids invited company to take coffee. Cloth had beenlaid down on the halls and passages, so that not a footstep shouldbe heard, and all was silent and still. But the emperor was not yetdead, although he lay white and stiff on his gorgeous bed, with thelong velvet curtains and heavy gold tassels. A window stood open,and the moon shone in upon the emperor and the artificial bird. Thepoor emperor, finding he could scarcely breathe with a strangeweight on his chest, opened his eyes, and saw Death sitting there.He had put on the emperor's golden crown, and held in one hand hissword of state, and in the other his beautiful banner. All aroundthe bed and peeping through the long velvet curtains, were a number ofstrange heads, some very ugly, and others lovely and gentle looking.These were the emperor's good and bad deeds, which stared him in theface now Death sat at his heart."Do you remember this?" "Do you recollect that?" they asked oneafter another, thus bringing to his remembrance circumstances thatmade the perspiration stand on his brow."I know nothing about it," said the emperor. "Music! music!" hecried. "the large Chinese drum! that I may not hear what they say."But they still went on, and Death nodded like a Chinaman to all theysaid. "Music! music!" shouted the emperor. "You little precious goldenbird, sing, pray sing! I have given you gold and costly presents. Ihave even hung my golden slipper round your neck. Sing! sing!" But thebird remained silent. There was no one to wind it up, and therefore itcould not sing a note.Death continued to stare at the emperor with his cold, holloweyes, and the room was fearfully still. Suddenly there came throughthe open window the sound of sweet music. Outside, on the bough of atree, sat the living nightingale. She had heard of the emperor'sillness, and was therefore come to sing to him of hope and trust.And as she sung, the shadows grew paler and paler. the blood in theemperor's veins flowed more rapidly, and gave life to his weaklimbs. and even Death himself listened, and said, "Go on, littlenightingale, go on.""Then will you give me the beautiful golden sword and that richbanner? and will you give me the emperor's crown?" said the bird.So Death gave up each of these treasures for a song. and thenightingale continued her singing. She sung of the quiet churchyard,where the white roses grow, where the elder tree wafts its perfumeon the breeze, and the fresh, sweet grass is moistened by themourners' tears. Then Death longed to go and see his garden, andfloated out through the window in the form of a cold, white mist."Thanks, thanks, you heavenly little bird. I know you well. Ibanished you from my kingdom once, and yet you have charmed away theevil faces from my bed, and banished Death from my heart, with yoursweet song. How can I reward you?""You have already rewarded me," said the nightingale. "I shallnever forget that I drew tears from your eyes the first time I sang toyou. These are the jewels that rejoice a singer's heart. But nowsleep, and grow strong and well again. I will sing to you again."And as she sung, the emperor fell into a sweet sleep. and how mildand refreshing that slumber was! When he awoke, strengthened andrestored, the sun shone brightly through the window. but not one ofhis servants had returned they all believed he was dead. only thenightingale still sat beside him, and sang."You must always remain with me," said the emperor. "You shallsing only when it pleases you. and I will break the artificial birdinto a thousand pieces.""No. do not do that," replied the nightingale. "the bird didvery well as long as it could. Keep it here still. I cannot live inthe palace, and build my nest. but let me come when I like. I will siton a bough outside your window, in the evening, and sing to you, sothat you may be happy, and have thoughts full of joy. I will sing toyou of those who are happy, and those who suffer. of the good andthe evil, who are hidden around you. The little singing bird flies farfrom you and your court to the home of the fisherman and the peasant'scot. I love your heart better than your crown. and yet somethingholy lingers round that also. I will come, I will sing to you. but youmust promise me one thing.""Everything," said the emperor, who, having dressed himself in hisimperial robes, stood with the hand that held the heavy golden swordpressed to his heart."I only ask one thing," she replied. "let no one know that youhave a little bird who tells you everything. It will be best toconceal it." So saying, the nightingale flew away.The servants now came in to look after the dead emperor. when, lo!there he stood, and, to their astonishment, said, "Good morning."