There was once a young man on his way to a fair with five shillings inhis pocket. As he went he saw some little boys beating a poor mouse theyhad just caught."Come, boys," says he, "do not be so cruel. Sell me your mouse forsixpence, and go off and buy some sweets."They gave him the mouse, and he let the poor little beast go. He had notgone far when he met a fresh set of boys teasing the life out of a poorweasel.Well, he bought him off for a shilling and let him go. The thirdcreature he saved, from a crowd of cruel young men, was an ass, but hehad to give a whole half crown to get him off. "Now," says poor Neddy,"you may as well take me with you. I'll be of some use, I think, forwhen you are tired you can get up on my back." "With all my heart," saidJack, for that was the young man's name.The day was very hot, and the boy sat under a tree to enjoy the shade.As soon as he did he fell asleep, but he was soon awakened by awicked looking giant and his two servants. "How dare you let your asstrespass in my field," cried he, "and do such mischief." "I had nonotion that he had done anything of the kind." "No notion? I'll notionyou, then. Bring out that chest," said he to one of his servants, andbefore you could wink they had tied the poor boy, hand and foot, with astout rope, thrown him into the chest, and tossed the chest into theriver. Then they all went away but poor Neddy, till who should come upbut the weasel and the mouse, and they asked him what was the matter. Sothe ass told them his story."Oh," said the weasel, "he must be the same boy that saved the mouse andmyself. Had he a brown patch in the arm of his coat?" "The very same.""Come, then," said the weasel, "and let us try and get him out of theriver." "By all means," said the others. So the weasel got on the ass'sback and the mouse got into his ear, and away they went. They had notgone far when they saw the chest, which had been stopped among therushes at the end of a little island.In they went, and the weasel and the mouse gnawed the rope till they hadset their master free.Well, they were all very glad, and were having a great talk about thegiant and his men, when what should the weasel spy but an egg, with themost lovely colours on the shell, lying down in the shallow water. Itwas not long before he had fished it out, and Jack kept turning it roundand round and praising it."Oh, my dear friends," said he to the ass, the mouse, and the weasel,"how I wish it was in my power to thank you as I should like. How I wishI had a fine house and grounds to take you to where you could live inpeace and plenty."The words were hardly out of his mouth when he and the beasts foundthemselves standing on the steps of a grand castle, with the finest lawnbefore it that you ever saw. There was no one inside or outside it tokeep it from them, so in they went, and there they lived as happy askings.Jack was standing at his gate one day as three merchants were passing bywith their goods packed on the backs of horses and mules."Bless our eyes," cried they, "what does this mean? There was no castleor lawn here when we went by last time.""That is true," cried Jack, "but you shall not be the worse for it. Takeyour beasts into the yard at the back of the house and give them a goodfeed, and if you can spare the time stay and take a bit of dinner withme."They were only too glad to do so. but after dinner Jack was so foolishas to show them his painted egg, and to tell them that you had only towish for a thing when you had it in your hand and your wish was granted.He proved it to be so. Then one of his guests put a powder into Jack'snext glass of wine, and when he awoke he found himself in the islandagain, with his patched coat on him, and his three friends in front ofhim, all looking very downhearted. "Ah, Master," said the weasel, "youwill never be wise enough for the tricky people that are in the world.""Where did these thieves say they lived, and what names did they saythey were called by?" Jack scratched his head, and after a while wasable to tell them."Come, Neddy," says the weasel, "let us be jogging. It would not be safefor the master to go with us. but if we have luck we will bring him theegg back after all."So the weasel got on the ass's back and the mouse got into his ear, andaway they went till they reached the house of the head rogue. The mousewent in, and the ass and the weasel hid themselves in a copse outside.The mouse soon came back to them."Well, what news?" said they."Dull news enough. he has the egg in a low chest in his bedroom, and thedoor is strongly locked and bolted, and a pair of cats with fiery eyesare chained to the chest watching it night and day.""Let us go back," said the ass. "we can do nothing." "Wait!" said theweasel.When bedtime came, said the weasel to the mouse: "Go in at the keyholeand get behind the rogue's head, and stay there two or three hourssucking his hair.""What good would there be in that?" asked the ass. "Wait, and you'llknow!" said the weasel.Next morning the merchant was quite mad to find the state his hair wasin."But I'll be a match for you to night, my fine mouse," said he. So heunchained the cats next night and made them sit by his bedside andwatch.Just as he was dropping asleep the weasel and the mouse were outside thedoor, and gnawing away till they had scooped out a hole in the bottom ofit. In went the mouse, and it was not long before he had the egg quitesafe.They were soon on the road again. the mouse in the ass's ear, the weaselon his back, and the egg in the weasel's mouth.When they came to the river, and were swimming across, the ass began tobray. "Hee haw, hee haw," cried he. "Is there anyone like me in all theworld? I am carrying the mouse and the weasel and the great enchantedegg that can do anything. Why do you not praise me?"But the mouse was asleep, and the weasel dared not open his mouth forfear of dropping the egg. "I'll shake you all off, you thankless pack,if you won't praise me," cried the ass, and the poor weasel forgot theegg, and cried out: "Oh, don't, don't!" when down went the egg into thedeepest pool in the river. "Now you have done it," said the weasel, andyou may be sure the ass looked very foolish."Oh, what are we to do?" groaned he. "Keep a good heart," said theweasel. Then looking down into the deep water, he cried: "Hear! all youfrogs and fish. There is a great army of storks and cranes coming totake you all out and eat you up red raw. Make haste! Make haste!" "Oh,and what can we do?" cried they, coming up to the top. "Gather up thestones from below and hand them to us, and we'll build a big wall on thebank to defend you." So the fish and frogs fell to work like mad, andwere at it hard and fast, reaching up all the stones and pebbles theyfound at the bottom of the pool.At last a big frog came up with the egg in his mouth, and when theweasel had hold of it he climbed into a tree and cried out, "That willdo. the army has got a great fright at our walls, and they are allrunning away." So the poor things were greatly relieved.You may be sure that Jack jumped for joy to see his friends and the eggagain. They were soon back in their castle, and when Jack began to feellonely he did not find it hard to find a pretty lady to marry him, andthen they two and the three grateful beasts were as happy as the dayswere long.PATRICK KENNEDY.