Contes populaires des Bassoutos. Recueillis et traduits par E. Jacottet.Paris: Leroux, Editeur.A long, long way off, in a land where water is very scarce, there liveda man and his wife and several children. One day the wife said to herhusband, 'I am pining to have the liver of a nyamatsane for my dinner.If you love me as much as you say you do, you will go out and hunt fora nyamatsane, and will kill it and get its liver. If not, I shall knowthat your love is not worth having.''Bake some bread,' was all her husband answered, 'then take the crustand put it in this little bag.'The wife did as she was told, and when she had finished she said to herhusband, 'The bag is all ready and quite full.''Very well,' said he, 'and now good bye. I am going after thenyamatsane.'But the nyamatsane was not so easy to find as the woman had hoped. Thehusband walked on and on and on without ever seeing one, and every nowand then he felt so hungry that he was obliged to eat one of thecrusts of bread out of his bag. At last, when he was ready to drop fromfatigue, he found himself on the edge of a great marsh, which borderedon one side the country of the nyamatsanes. But there were no morenyamatsanes here than anywhere else. They had all gone on a huntingexpedition, as their larder was empty, and the only person left athome was their grandmother, who was so feeble she never went out ofthe house. Our friend looked on this as a great piece of luck, and madehaste to kill her before the others returned, and to take out her liver,after which he dressed himself in her skin as well as he could. He hadscarcely done this when he heard the noise of the nyamatsanes comingback to their grandmother, for they were very fond of her, and neverstayed away from her longer than they could help. They rushed clatteringinto the hut, exclaiming, 'We smell human flesh! Some man is here,' andbegan to look about for him. but they only saw their old grandmother,who answered, in a trembling voice, 'No, my children, no! What shouldany man be doing here?' The nyamatsanes paid no attention to her, andbegan to open all the cupboards, and peep under all the beds, cryingout all the while, 'A man is here! a man is here!' but they could findnobody, and at length, tired out with their long day's hunting, theycurled themselves up and fell asleep.Next morning they woke up quite refreshed, and made ready to starton another expedition. but as they did not feel happy about theirgrandmother they said to her, 'Grandmother, won't you come to day andfeed with us?' And they led their grandmother outside, and all of thembegan hungrily to eat pebbles. Our friend pretended to do the same,but in reality he slipped the stones into his pouch, and swallowed thecrusts of bread instead. However, as the nyamatsanes did not see thisthey had no idea that he was not really their grandmother. When they hadeaten a great many pebbles they thought they had done enough for thatday, and all went home together and curled themselves up to sleep. Nextmorning when they woke they said, 'Let us go and amuse ourselves byjumping over the ditch,' and every time they cleared it with a bound.Then they begged their grandmother to jump over it too, end with atremendous effort she managed to spring right over to the other side.After this they had no doubt at all of its being their true grandmother,and went off to their hunting, leaving our friend at home in the hut.As soon as they had gone out of sight our hero made haste to take theliver from the place where he had hid it, threw off the skin of the oldnyamatsane, and ran away as hard as he could, only stopping to pick up avery brilliant and polished little stone, which he put in his bag by theside of the liver.Towards evening the nyamatsanes came back to the hut full of anxiety toknow how their grandmother had got on during their absence. The firstthing they saw on entering the door was her skin lying on the floor, andthen they knew that they had been deceived, and they said to each other,'So we were right, after all, and it was human flesh we smelt.' Thenthey stooped down to find traces of the man's footsteps, and when theyhad got them instantly set out in hot pursuit.Meanwhile our friend had journeyed many miles, and was beginning to feelquite safe and comfortable, when, happening to look round, he saw inthe distance a thick cloud of dust moving rapidly. His heart stood stillwithin him, and he said to himself, 'I am lost. It is the nyamatsanes,and they will tear me in pieces,' and indeed the cloud of dust wasdrawing near with amazing quickness, and the nyamatsanes almost felt asif they were already devouring him. Then as a last hope the man took thelittle stone that he had picked up out of his bag and flung it on theground. The moment it touched the soil it became a huge rock, whosesteep sides were smooth as glass, and on the top of it our hero hastilyseated himself. It was in vain that the nyamatsanes tried to climb upand reach him. they slid down again much faster than they had gone up.and by sunset they were quite worn out, and fell asleep at the foot ofthe rock.No sooner had the nyamatsanes tumbled off to sleep than the man stolesoftly down and fled away as fast as his legs would carry him, and bythe time his enemies were awake he was a very long way off. They sprangquickly to their feet and began to sniff the soil round the rock, inorder to discover traces of his footsteps, and they galloped after himwith terrific speed. The chase continued for several days and nights.several times the nyamatsanes almost reached him, and each time he wassaved by his little pebble.Between his fright and his hurry he was almost dead of exhaustion whenhe reached his own village, where the nyamatsanes could not follow him,because of their enemies the dogs, which swarmed over all the roads. Sothey returned home.Then our friend staggered into his own hut and called to his wife:'Ichou! how tired I am! Quick, give me something to drink. Then go andget fuel and light a fire.'So she did what she was bid, and then her husband took the nyamatsane'sliver from his pouch and said to her, 'There, I have brought you whatyou wanted, and now you know that I love you truly.'And the wife answered, 'It is well. Now go and take out the children, sothat I may remain alone in the hut,' and as she spoke she lifted down anold stone pot and put on the liver to cook. Her husband watched her fora moment, and then said, 'Be sure you eat it all yourself. Do not givea scrap to any of the children, but eat every morsel up.' So the womantook the liver and ate it all herself.Directly the last mouthful had disappeared she was seized with suchviolent thirst that she caught up a great pot full of water and drank itat a single draught. Then, having no more in the house, she ran in nextdoor and said, 'Neighbour, give me, I pray you, something to drink.' Theneighbour gave her a large vessel quite full, and the woman drank it offat a single draught, and held it out for more.But the neighbour pushed her away, saying, 'No, I shall have none leftfor my children.'So the woman went into another house, and drank all the water she couldfind. but the more she drank the more thirsty she became. She wanderedin this manner through the whole village till she had drunk everywater pot dry. Then she rushed off to the nearest spring, and swallowedthat, and when she had finished all the springs and wells about shedrank up first the river and then a lake. But by this time she had drunkso much that she could not rise from the ground.In the evening, when it was time for the animals to have their drinkbefore going to bed, they found the lake quite dry, and they had to makeup their minds to be thirsty till the water flowed again and the streamswere full. Even then, for some time, the lake was very dirty, and thelion, as king of the beasts, commanded that no one should drink till itwas quite clear again.But the little hare, who was fond of having his own way, and was verythirsty besides, stole quietly off when all the rest were asleep intheir dens, and crept down to the margin of the lake and drank his fill.Then he smeared the dirty water all over the rabbit's face and paws, sothat it might look as if it were he who had been disobeying Big Lion'sorders.The next day, as soon as it was light, Big Lion marched straight forthe lake, and all the other beasts followed him. He saw at once that thewater had been troubled again, and was very angry.'Who has been drinking my water?' said he. and the little hare gave ajump, and, pointing to the rabbit, he answered, 'Look there! it must behe! Why, there is mud all over his face and paws!'The rabbit, frightened out of his wits, tried to deny the fact,exclaiming, 'Oh, no, indeed I never did.' but Big Lion would not listen,and commanded them to cane him with a birch rod.Now the little hare was very much pleased with his cleverness in causingthe rabbit to be beaten instead of himself, and went about boastingof it. At last one of the other animals overheard him, and called out,'Little hare, little hare! what is that you are saying?'But the little hare hastily replied, 'I only asked you to pass me mystick.'An hour or two later, thinking that no one was near him, he said tohimself again, 'It was really I who drank up the water, but I made themthink it was the rabbit.'But one of the beasts whose ears were longer than the rest caught thewords, and went to tell Big Lion about it. Do you hear what the littlehare is saying?'So Big Lion sent for the little hare, and asked him what he meant bytalking like that.The little hare saw that there was no use trying to hide it, so heanswered pertly, 'It was I who drank the water, but I made them thinkit was the rabbit.' Then he turned and ran as fast as he could, with allthe other beasts pursuing him.They were almost up to him when he dashed into a very narrow cleft inthe rock, much too small for them to follow. but in his hurry he hadleft one of his long ears sticking out, which they just managed toseize. But pull as hard as they might they could not drag him out of thehole, and at last they gave it up and left him, with his ear very muchtorn and scratched.When the last tail was out of sight the little hare crept cautiouslyout, and the first person he met was the rabbit. He had plenty ofimpudence, so he put a bold face on the matter, and said, 'Well, my goodrabbit, you see I have had a beating as well as you.'But the rabbit was still sore and sulky, and he did not care to talk, sohe answered, coldly, 'You have treated me very badly. It was really youwho drank that water, and you accused me of having done it.''Oh, my good rabbit, never mind that! I've got such a wonderful secretto tell you! Do you know what to do so as to escape death?''No, I don't.''Well, we must begin by digging a hole.'So they dug a hole, and then the little hare said, 'The next thing is tomake a fire in the hole,' and they set to work to collect wood, and litquite a large fire.When it was burning brightly the little hare said to the rabbit,'Rabbit, my friend, throw me into the fire, and when you hear my furcrackling, and I call "Itchi, Itchi," then be quick and pull me out.'The rabbit did as he was told, and threw the little hare into the fire.but no sooner did the little hare begin to feel the heat of the flamesthan he took some green bay leaves he had plucked for the purpose andheld them in the middle of the fire, where they crackled and made agreat noise. Then he called loudly 'Itchi, Itchi! Rabbit, my friend, bequick, be quick! Don't you hear how my skin is crackling?'And the rabbit came in a great hurry and pulled him out.Then the little hare said, 'Now it is your turn!' and he threw therabbit in the fire. The moment the rabbit felt the flames he cried out'Itchi, Itchi, I am burning. pull me out quick, my friend!'But the little hare only laughed, and said, 'No, you may stay there! Itis your own fault. Why were you such a fool as to let yourself be thrownin? Didn't you know that fire burns?' And in a very few minutes nothingwas left of the rabbit but a few bones.When the fire was quite out the little hare went and picked up one ofthese bones, and made a flute out of it, and sang this song:Pii, pii, O flute that I love, Pii, pii, rabbits are but little boys.Pii, pii, he would have burned me if he could. Pii, pii, but I burnedhim, and he crackled finely.When he got tired of going through the world singing this the littlehare went back to his friends and entered the service of Big Lion. Oneday he said to his master, 'Grandfather, shall I show you a splendid wayto kill game?''What is it?' asked Big Lion.'We must dig a ditch, and then you must lie in it and pretend to bedead.'Big Lion did as he was told, and when he had lain down the little haregot up on a wall blew a trumpet and shouted Pii, pii, all you animals come and see, Big Lion is dead, and now peacewill be.Directly they heard this they all came running. The little hare receivedthem and said, 'Pass on, this way to the lion.' So they all entered intothe Animal Kingdom. Last of all came the monkey with her baby on herback. She approached the ditch, and took a blade of grass and tickledBig Lion's nose, and his nostrils moved in spite of his efforts to keepthem still. Then the monkey cried, 'Come, my baby, climb on my back andlet us go. What sort of a dead body is it that can still feel when itis tickled?' And she and her baby went away in a fright. Then thelittle hare said to the other beasts, 'Now, shut the gate of the AnimalKingdom.' And it was shut, and great stones were rolled against it. Wheneverything was tight closed the little hare turned to Big Lion and said'Now!' and Big Lion bounded out of the ditch and tore the other animalsin pieces.But Big Lion kept all the choice bits for himself, and only gave awaythe little scraps that he did not care about eating. and the little haregrew very angry, and determined to have his revenge. He had long agofound out that Big Lion was very easily taken in. so he laid his plansaccordingly. He said to him, as if the idea had just come into his head,'Grandfather, let us build a hut,' and Big Lion consented. And when theyhad driven the stakes into the ground, and had made the walls of thehut, the little hare told Big Lion to climb upon the top while he stayedinside. When he was ready he called out, 'Now, grandfather, begin,'and Big Lion passed his rod through the reeds with which the roofs arealways covered in that country. The little hare took it and cried, 'Nowit is my turn to pierce them,' and as he spoke he passed the rod backthrough the reeds and gave Big Lion's tail a sharp poke.'What is pricking me so?' asked Big Lion.'Oh, just a little branch sticking out. I am going to break it,'answered the little hare. but of course he had done it on purpose, as hewanted to fix Big Lion's tail so firmly to the hut that he would notbe able to move. In a little while he gave another prick, and Big Lioncalled again, 'What is pricking me so?'This time the little hare said to himself, 'He will find out what I amat. I must try some other plan. 'So he called out, 'Grandfather, you hadbetter put your tongue here, so that the branches shall not touch you.'Big Lion did as he was bid, and the little hare tied it tightly to thestakes of the wall. Then he went outside and shouted, 'Grandfather, youcan come down now,' and Big Lion tried, but he could not move an inch.Then the little hare began quietly to eat Big Lion's dinner right beforehis eyes, and paying no attention at all to his growls of rage. Whenhe had quite done he climbed up on the hut, and, blowing his flute, hechanted 'Pii, pii, fall rain and hail,' and directly the sky was full ofclouds, the thunder roared, and huge hailstones whitened the roof ofthe hut. The little hare, who had taken refuge within, called out again,'Big Lion, be quick and come down and dine with me.' But there was noanswer, not even a growl, for the hailstones had killed Big Lion.The little hare enjoyed himself vastly for some time, living comfortablyin the hut, with plenty of food to eat and no trouble at all in gettingit. But one day a great wind arose, and flung down the Big Lion'shalf dried skin from the roof of the hut. The little hare bounded withterror at the noise, for he thought Big Lion must have come to lifeagain. but on discovering what had happened he set about cleaningthe skin, and propped the mouth open with sticks so that he could getthrough. So, dressed in Big Lion's skin, the little hare started on histravels.The first visit he paid was to the hyaenas, who trembled at the sightof him, and whispered to each other, 'How shall we escape from thisterrible beast?' Meanwhile the little hare did not trouble himselfabout them, but just asked where the king of the hyaenas lived, andmade himself quite at home there. Every morning each hyaena thought tohimself, 'To day he is certain to eat me.' but several days went by,and they were all still alive. At length, one evening, the little hare,looking round for something to amuse him, noticed a great pot full ofboiling water, so he strolled up to one of the hyaenas and said, 'Go andget in.' The hyaena dared not disobey, and in a few minutes was scaldedto death. Then the little hare went the round of the village, saying toevery hyaena he met, 'Go and get into the boiling water,' so that in alittle while there was hardly a male left in the village.One day all the hyaenas that remained alive went out very early intothe fields, leaving only one little daughter at home. The little hare,thinking he was all alone, came into the enclosure, and, wishing tofeel what it was like to be a hare again, threw off Big Lion's skin, andbegan to jump and dance, singing I am just the little hare, the little hare, the little hare. I am justthe little hare who killed the great hyaenas.The little hyaena gazed at him in surprise, saying to herself, 'What!was it really this tiny beast who put to death all our best people?'when suddenly a gust of wind rustled the reeds that surrounded theenclosure, and the little hare, in a fright, hastily sprang back intoBig Lion's skin.When the hyaenas returned to their homes the little hyaena said to herfather: 'Father, our tribe has very nearly been swept away, and all thishas been the work of a tiny creature dressed in the lion's skin.'But her father answered, 'Oh, my dear child, you don't know what you aretalking about.'She replied, 'Yes, father, it is quite true. I saw it with my own eyes.'The father did not know what to think, and told one of his friends, whosaid, 'To morrow we had better keep watch ourselves.'And the next day they hid themselves and waited till the little harecame out of the royal hut. He walked gaily towards the enclosure, threwoff, Big Lion's skin, and sang and danced as before I am just the little hare, the little hare, the little hare, I am justthe little hare, who killed the great hyaenas.That night the two hyaenas told all the rest, saying, 'Do you know thatwe have allowed ourselves to be trampled on by a wretched creature withnothing of the lion about him but his skin?'When supper was being cooked that evening, before they all went to bed,the little hare, looking fierce and terrible in Big Lion's skin, said asusual to one of the hyaenas 'Go and get into the boiling water.' But thehyaena never stirred. There was silence for a moment. then a hyaena tooka stone, and flung it with all his force against the lion's skin. Thelittle hare jumped out through the mouth with a single spring, and fledaway like lightning, all the hyaenas in full pursuit uttering greatcries. As he turned a corner the little hare cut off both his ears,so that they should not know him, and pretended to be working at agrindstone which lay there.The hyaenas soon came up to him and said, 'Tell me, friend, have youseen the little hare go by?''No, I have seen no one.''Where can he be?' said the hyaenas one to another. 'Of course, thiscreature is quite different, and not at all like the little hare.' Thenthey went on their way, but, finding no traces of the little hare,they returned sadly to their village, saying, 'To think we should haveallowed ourselves to be swept away by a wretched creature like that!'