Osmo, the bear, used to go day after day to a field of growing rye and eatas much as he wanted. The farmer noticed from the bear's tracks that healways came by the same route."I'll teach that bear a lesson!" the farmer thought to himself. So he seta snare made of a strong net and carefully covered it over with leaves andbranches. That day Osmo, when he came as usual to the field, got entangledin the net and was unable to escape. The farmer when he came and found himsecurely caught was overjoyed."Now, you brute!" he said, "I've got you and I'm going to kill you!""Oh, master, don't do that!" the bear implored. "Don't kill me!""Why shouldn't I kill you?" the farmer asked. "Aren't you destroying myrye?""Let me off this time!" Osmo begged, "and I'll reward you! I swear Iwill!" He begged and begged until at last he prevailed upon the farmer toopen the net and let him out."Now then," the farmer said as soon as the bear was freed, "how are yougoing to reward me?"Osmo put a heavy paw on the farmer's shoulder. "This is how I'm going toreward you," he said: "I'm going to eat you up !""What!" the farmer exclaimed. "Is that your idea of a reward forkindness?""Exactly!" Osmo declared. "In this world that is the reward kindnessalways gets! Ask anyone!""I don't believe it! I don't believe it!" the farmer cried."Very well. I'll prove to you that I'm right. We'll ask the first personwe meet."The first person they met was an old horse. They put their case to him."The bear is right," the old horse said. "Look at me. For thirty years Igave my master faithful service and just this morning I heard him say,'It's time we killed that old plug! He's no good for work any more andhe's only eating his head off!'"The bear squinted his little eyes. "You see!""No, I don't see!" the farmer insisted. "We must ask someone else."They walked on a little farther until they met an old dog. They put theircase to him and at once the dog said, "The bear is right! Look at me. Igave my master a life time of faithful service and just this morning Ioverheard him say: 'It's time we killed that old dog!' Alas, alas, in thiswicked world goodness is always so rewarded!"But still the farmer was unsatisfied and to humor him Osmo said that hewas willing that they should put their case once more to the judgment ofan outsider. The next person they met was Mikko, the fox.Mikko listened carefully and then drawing the farmer aside he whispered,"If I give judgment in your favor will you let me carry off all thechickens in your henhouse?""Indeed I will!" the farmer promised.Then Mikko cleared his throat importantly and said, "H'm! H'm! To givefair judgment in this case I must go over all the ground. First show methe field of rye and the damage Osmo did."So they went to the field and the fox, after he had appraised the damage,shook his head seriously. "It was certainly wicked of Osmo eating all thatrye!... Now show me the net."So they went to the snare and the fox examined it carefully."You say the bear got entangled in this snare. I want to see just how hedid it." Osmo showed just how he had been caught."Get all the way in," the fox said. "I want to make sure that you couldn'tpossibly get out unaided."So the bear entangled himself again in the net and proved that he couldn'tpossibly get out unaided."Well," said Mikko, the rascal, "you deserved to get caught the first timeand now that you're in there again you can just stay there! Come on, Mr.Farmer."So Mikko and the farmer went off leaving Osmo to his fate. That night thefox went to the farmer's henhouse to claim his reward. When he came in thechickens, of course, set up an awful squawking that aroused the family.The farmer stayed in bed but he sent his wife out with a stout club."It sounds to me," he said, "as if some rascally fox is trying to stealour hens. If you catch him, don't be gentle with him!""Gentle!" repeated the wife significantly. She hurried out to thehenhouse and when she found Mikko inside she gave him an awful beating.In fact he barely escaped with his life."Ah!" he said to himself as he limped painfully home, "to think that thisis the reward my kindness has received! Oh, what a wicked, wicked worldthis is!"