Translated from the German of Hans Andersen.'How astonishingly cold it is! My body is cracking all over!' said theSnow man. 'The wind is really cutting one's very life out! And how thatfiery thing up there glares!' He meant the sun, which was just setting.'It sha'n't make me blink, though, and I shall keep quite cool andcollected.'Instead of eyes he had two large three cornered pieces of slate in hishead. his mouth consisted of an old rake, so that he had teeth as well.He was born amidst the shouts and laughter of the boys, and greeted bythe jingling bells and cracking whips of the sledges.The sun went down, the full moon rose, large, round, clear andbeautiful, in the dark blue sky.'There it is again on the other side!' said the Snow man, by which hemeant the sun was appearing again. 'I have become quite accustomed toits glaring. I hope it will hang there and shine, so that I may beable to see myself. I wish I knew, though, how one ought to see aboutchanging one's position. I should very much like to move about. If Ionly could, I would glide up and down the ice there, as I saw the boysdoing. but somehow or other, I don't know how to run.''Bow wow!' barked the old yard dog. he was rather hoarse and couldn'tbark very well. His hoarseness came on when he was a house dog and usedto lie in front of the stove. 'The sun will soon teach you to run! I sawthat last winter with your predecessor, and farther back still with hispredecessors! They have all run away!''I don't understand you, my friend,' said the Snow man. 'That thing upthere is to teach me to run?' He meant the moon. 'Well, it certainly didrun just now, for I saw it quite plainly over there, and now here it ison this side.''You know nothing at all about it,' said the yard dog. 'Why, you haveonly just been made. The thing you see there is the moon. the otherthing you saw going down the other side was the sun. He will come upagain tomorrow morning, and will soon teach you how to run away down thegutter. The weather is going to change. I feel it already by the pain inmy left hind leg. the weather is certainly going to change.''I can't understand him,' said the Snow man. 'but I have an idea that heis speaking of something unpleasant. That thing that glares so, and thendisappears, the sun, as he calls it, is not my friend. I know that byinstinct.''Bow wow!' barked the yard dog, and walked three times round himself,and then crept into his kennel to sleep. The weather really did change.Towards morning a dense damp fog lay over the whole neighbourhood. lateron came an icy wind, which sent the frost packing. But when the sunrose, it was a glorious sight. The trees and shrubs were covered withrime, and looked like a wood of coral, and every branch was thick withlong white blossoms. The most delicate twigs, which are lost among thefoliage in summer time, came now into prominence, and it was like aspider's web of glistening white. The lady birches waved in the wind.and when the sun shone, everything glittered and sparkled as if it weresprinkled with diamond dust, and great diamonds were lying on the snowycarpet.'Isn't it wonderful?' exclaimed a girl who was walking with a youngman in the garden. They stopped near the Snow man, and looked at theglistening trees. 'Summer cannot show a more beautiful sight,' she said,with her eyes shining.'And one can't get a fellow like this in summer either,' said the youngman, pointing to the Snow man. 'He's a beauty!'The girl laughed, and nodded to the Snow man, and then they both dancedaway over the snow.'Who were those two?' asked the Snow man of the yard dog. 'You have beenin this yard longer than I have. Do you know who they are?''Do I know them indeed?' answered the yard dog. 'She has often strokedme, and he has given me bones. I don't bite either of them!''But what are they?' asked the Snow man.'Lovers!' replied the yard dog. 'They will go into one kennel and gnawthe same bone!''Are they the same kind of beings that we are?' asked the Snow man.'They are our masters,' answered the yard dog. 'Really people who haveonly been in the world one day know very little.' That's the conclusionI have come to. Now I have age and wisdom. I know everyone in the house,and I can remember a time when I was not lying here in a cold kennel.Bow wow!''The cold is splendid,' said the Snow man. 'Tell me some more. But don'trattle your chain so, it makes me crack!''Bow wow!' barked the yard dog. 'They used to say I was a pretty littlefellow. then I lay in a velvet covered chair in my master's house. Mymistress used to nurse me, and kiss and fondle me, and call me her dear,sweet little Alice! But by and by I grew too big, and I was given to thehousekeeper, and I went into the kitchen. You can see into it from whereyou are standing. you can look at the room in which I was master, for soI was when I was with the housekeeper. Of course it was a smaller placethan upstairs, but it was more comfortable, for I wasn't chased aboutand teased by the children as I had been before. My food was just asgood, or even better. I had my own pillow, and there was a stove there,which at this time of year is the most beautiful thing in the world. Iused to creep right under that stove. Ah me! I often dream of that stovestill! Bow wow!''Is a stove so beautiful?' asked the Snow man. 'Is it anything like me?''It is just the opposite of you! It is coal black, and has a long neckwith a brass pipe. It eats firewood, so that fire spouts out of itsmouth. One has to keep close beside it quite underneath is the nicest ofall. You can see it through the window from where you are standing.'And the Snow man looked in that direction, and saw a smooth polishedobject with a brass pipe. The flicker from the fire reached him acrossthe snow. The Snow man felt wonderfully happy, and a feeling came overhim which he could not express. but all those who are not snow men knowabout it.'Why did you leave her?' asked the Snow man. He had a feeling that sucha being must be a lady. 'How could you leave such a place?''I had to!' said the yard dog. 'They turned me out of doors, and chainedme up here. I had bitten the youngest boy in the leg, because he tookaway the bone I was gnawing. a bone for a bone, I thought! But they werevery angry, and from that time I have been chained here, and I have lostmy voice. Don't you hear how hoarse I am? Bow wow! I can't speak likeother dogs. Bow wow! That was the end of happiness!'The Snow man, however, was not listening to him any more. he was lookinginto the room where the housekeeper lived, where the stove stood on itsfour iron legs, and seemed to be just the same size as the Snow man.'How something is cracking inside me!' he said. 'Shall I never be ableto get in there? It is certainly a very innocent wish, and our innocentwishes ought to be fulfilled. I must get there, and lean against thestove, if I have to break the window first!''You will never get inside there!' said the yard dog. 'and if you wereto reach the stove you would disappear. Bow wow!''I'm as good as gone already!' answered the Snow man. 'I believe I'mbreaking up!'The whole day the Snow man looked through the window. towards dusk theroom grew still more inviting. the stove gave out a mild light, not atall like the moon or even the sun. no, as only a stove can shine, whenit has something to feed upon. When the door of the room was open, itflared up this was one of its peculiarities. it flickered quite red uponthe Snow man's white face.'I can't stand it any longer!' he said. 'How beautiful it looks with itstongue stretched out like that!'It was a long night, but the Snow man did not find it so. there hestood, wrapt in his pleasant thoughts, and they froze, so that hecracked.Next morning the panes of the kitchen window were covered with ice, andthe most beautiful ice flowers that even a snow man could desire, onlythey blotted out the stove. The window would not open. he couldn't seethe stove which he thought was such a lovely lady. There was a crackingand cracking inside him and all around. there was just such a frost as asnow man would delight in. But this Snow man was different: how could hefeel happy?'Yours is a bad illness for a Snow man!' said the yard dog. 'I alsosuffered from it, but I have got over it. Bow wow!' he barked. 'Theweather is going to change!' he added.The weather did change. There came a thaw.When this set in the Snow man set off. He did not say anything, and hedid not complain, and those are bad signs.One morning he broke up altogether. And lo! where he had stood thereremained a broomstick standing upright, round which the boys had builthim!'Ah! now I understand why he loved the stove,' said the yard dog.'That is the raker they use to clean out the stove! The Snow man had astove raker in his body! That's what was the matter with him! And nowit's all over with him! Bow wow!'And before long it was all over with the winter too! 'Bow wow!' barkedthe hoarse yard dog.But the young girl sang:Woods, your bright green garments don!Willows, your woolly gloves put on!Lark and cuckoo, daily sing  February has brought the spring!My heart joins in your song so sweet.Come out, dear sun, the world to greet!And no one thought of the Snow man.