Once upon a time a man had a shepherd who served him many years faithfullyand honestly. One day, whilst herding his flock, this shepherd heard ahissing sound, coming out of the forest nearby, which he could not accountfor. So he went into the wood in the direction of the noise to try todiscover the cause. When he approached the place he found that the drygrass and leaves were on fire, and on a tree, surrounded by flames, asnake was coiled, hissing with terror.The shepherd stood wondering how the poor snake could escape, for the windwas blowing the flames that way, and soon that tree would be burning likethe rest.Suddenly the snake cried, "O shepherd! for the love of heaven save me fromthis fire!"Then the shepherd stretched his staff out over the flames and the snakewound itself round the staff and up to his hand, and from his hand itcrept up his arm, and twined itself about his neck.The shepherd trembled with fright, expecting every instant to be stung todeath, and said, "What an unlucky man I am! Did I rescue you only to bedestroyed myself?"But the snake answered, "Have no fear. only carry me home to my father whois the King of the Snakes."The shepherd, however, was much too frightened to listen, and said that hecould not go away and leave his flock alone. but the snake said, "You neednot be afraid to leave your flock, no evil shall befall them. but make allthe haste you can."So he set off through the wood carrying the snake, and after a time hecame to a great gateway, made entirely of snakes intertwined one withanother. The shepherd stood still with surprise, but the snake round hisneck whistled, and immediately all the arch unwound itself."When we are come to my father's house," said his own snake to him, "hewill reward you with anything you like to ask   silver, gold, jewels, orwhatever on this earth is most precious. but take none of all thesethings, ask rather to understand the language of beasts. He will refuse itto you a long time, but in the end he will grant it to you."Soon after that they arrived at the house of the King of the Snakes, whoburst into tears of joy at the sight of his daughter, as he had given herup for dead. "Where have you been all this time?" he asked, directly hecould speak, and she told him that she had been caught in a forest fire,and had been rescued from the flames by the shepherd. The King of theSnakes, then turning to the shepherd, said to him, "What reward will youchoose for saving my child?""Make me to know the language of beasts," answered the shepherd, "that isall I desire."The king replied, "Such knowledge would be of no benefit to you, for if Igranted it to you and you told any one of it, you would immediately die.ask me rather for whatever else you would most like to possess, and itshall be yours."But the shepherd answered him, "Sir, if you wish to reward me for savingyour daughter, grant me, I pray you, to know the language of beasts. Idesire nothing else". and he turned as if to depart.Then the king called him back, saying, "If nothing else will satisfy you,open your mouth." The man obeyed, and the king spat into it, and said,"Now spit into my mouth." The shepherd did as he was told, then the Kingof the Snakes spat again into the shepherd's mouth. When they had spatinto each other's mouths three times, the king said, "Now you know thelanguage of beasts, go in peace. but, if you value your life, beware lestyou tell anyone of it, else you will immediately die."So the shepherd set out for home, and on his way through the wood he heardand understood all that was said by the birds, and by every livingcreature. When he got back to his sheep he found the flock grazingpeacefully, and as he was very tired he laid himself down by them to resta little.Hardly had he done so when two ravens flew down and perched on a treenearby, and began to talk to each other in their own language, "If thatshepherd only knew that there is a vault full of gold and silver beneathwhere that lamb is lying, what would he not do?"When the shepherd heard these words he went straight to his master andtold him, and the master at once took a wagon, and broke open the door ofthe vault, and they carried off the treasure. But instead of keeping itfor himself, the master, who was an honorable man, gave it all up to theshepherd, saying, "Take it, it is yours. The gods have given it to you."So the shepherd took the treasure and built himself a house. He married awife, and they lived in great peace and happiness, and he was acknowledgedto be the richest man, not only of his native village, but of all thecountryside. He had flocks of sheep, and cattle, and horses without end,as well as beautiful clothes and jewels.One day, just before Christmas, he said to his wife, "Prepare everythingfor a great feast, tomorrow we will take things with us to the farm thatthe shepherds there may make merry."The wife obeyed, and all was prepared as he desired. Next day they bothwent to the farm, and in the evening the master said to the shepherds,"Now come, all of you, eat, drink, and make merry. I will watch the flocksmyself tonight in your stead." Then he went out to spend the night withthe flocks.When midnight struck the wolves howled and the dogs barked, and the wolvesspoke in their own tongue, saying, "Shall we come in and work havoc, andyou too shall eat flesh?"And the dogs answered in their tongue, "Come in, and for once we shallhave enough to eat."Now amongst the dogs there was one so old that he had only two teeth leftin his head, and he spoke to the wolves, saying, "So long as I have my twoteeth still in my head, I will let no harm be done to my master."All this the master heard and understood, and as soon as morning dawned heordered all the dogs to be killed excepting the old dog. The farmservants wondered at this order, and exclaimed, "But surely, sir, thatwould be a pity?"The master answered, "Do as I bid you". and made ready to return home withhis wife, and they mounted their horses, her steed being a mare. As theywent on their way, it happened that the husband rode on ahead, while thewife was a little way behind.The husband's horse, seeing this, neighed, and said to the mare, "Comealong, make haste. why are you so slow?"And the mare answered, "It is very easy for you, you carry only yourmaster, who is a thin man, but I carry my mistress, who is so fat that sheweights as much as three."When the husband heard that he looked back and laughed, which the wifeperceiving, she urged on the mare till she caught up with her husband, andasked him why he laughed."For nothing at all," he answered. "just because it came into my head."She would not be satisfied with this answer, and urged him more and moreto tell her why he had laughed. But he controlled himself and said, "Letme be, wife. what ails you? I do not know myself why I laughed."But the more he put her off, the more she tormented him to tell her thecause of his laughter. At length he said to her, "Know, then, that if Itell it you I shall immediately and surely die." But even this did notquiet her. she only besought him the more to tell her.Meanwhile they had reached home, and before getting down from his horsethe man called for a coffin to be brought. and when it was there he placedit in front of the house, and said to his wife, "See, I will lay myselfdown in this coffin, and will then tell you why I laughed, for as soon asI have told you I shall surely die."So he lay down in the coffin, and while he took a last look around him,his old dog came out from the farm and sat down by him, and whined. Whenthe master saw this, he called to his wife, "Bring a piece of bread togive to the dog."The wife brought some bread and threw it to the dog, but he would not lookat it. Then the farm cock came and pecked at the bread. but the dog saidto it, "Wretched glutton, you can eat like that when you see that yourmaster is dying?"The cock answered, "Let him die, if he is so stupid. I have a hundredwives, which I call together when I find a grain of corn, and as soon asthey are there I swallow it myself. should one of them dare to be angry, Iwould give her a lesson with my beak. He has only one wife, and he cannotkeep her in order."As soon as the man understood this, he got up out of the coffin, seized astick, and called his wife into the room, saying, "Come, and I will tellyou what you so much want to know". and then he began to beat her with thestick, saying with each blow, "It is that, wife, it is that!" And in thisway he taught her never again to ask why he had laughed.