There was a miller, who left no more estate to the three sons he had,than his Mill, his Ass, and his Cat. The partition was soon made.Neither the scrivener nor attorney were sent for. They would soon haveeaten up all the poor patrimony. The eldest had the Mill, the secondthe Ass, and the youngest nothing but the Cat.The poor young fellow was quite comfortless at having so poor a lot."My brothers," said he, "may get their living handsomely enough, byjoining their stocks together. but for my part, when I have eaten upmy Cat, and made me a muff of his skin, I must die with hunger."The Cat, who heard all this, but made as if he did not, said to himwith a grave and serious air:"Do not thus afflict yourself, my good master. you have only to giveme a bag, and get a pair of boots made for me, that I may scamperthro' the dirt and the brambles, and you shall see that you have notso bad a portion of me as you imagine."Tho' the Cat's master did not build very much upon what he said, hehad however often seen him play a great many cunning tricks to catchrats and mice. as when he used to hang by the heels, or hide himselfin the meal, and make as if he were dead. so that he did notaltogether despair of his affording him some help in his miserablecondition.When the Cat had what he asked for, he booted himself very gallantly.and putting his bag about his neck, he held the strings of it in histwo fore paws, and went into a warren where was great abundance ofrabbits. He put bran and sow thistle into his bag, and stretchinghimself out at length, as if he had been dead, he waited for someyoung rabbit, not yet acquainted with the deceits of the world, tocome and rummage his bag for what he had put into it.Scarce was he lain down, but he had what he wanted. a rash and foolishyoung rabbit jumped into his bag, and Monsieur Puss, immediatelydrawing close the strings, took and killed him without pity. Proud ofhis prey, he went with it to the palace, and asked to speak with hisMajesty. He was shewed up stairs into the King's apartment, and,making a low reverence, said to him:"I have brought you, sir, a rabbit of the warren which my noble lordthe Marquis of Carabas" (for that was the title which Puss was pleasedto give his master) "has commanded me to present to your Majesty fromhim.""Tell thy master," said the King, "that I thank him, and that he doesme a great deal of pleasure."Another time he went and hid himself among some standing corn, holdingstill his bag open. and when a brace of partridges ran into it, hedrew the strings, and so caught them both. He went and made a presentof these to the King, as he had done before of the rabbit which hetook in the warren. The King in like manner received the partridgeswith great pleasure, and ordered him some money to drink.The Cat continued for two or three months, thus to carry his Majesty,from time to time, game of his master's taking. One day in particular,when he knew for certain that the King was to take the air, along theriver side, with his daughter, the most beautiful Princess in theworld, he said to his master:"If you will follow my advice, your fortune is made. you have nothingelse to do, but go and wash yourself in the river, in that part Ishall shew you, and leave the rest to me."The Marquis of Carabas did what the Cat advised him to, withoutknowing why or wherefore.While he was washing, the King passed by, and the Cat began to cryout, as loud as he could:"Help, help, my lord Marquis of Carabas is drowning."At this noise the King put his head out of his coach window, andfinding it was the Cat who had so often brought him such good game, hecommanded his guards to run immediately to the assistance of hislordship the Marquis of Carabas.While they were drawing the poor Marquis out of the river, the Catcame up to the coach, and told the King that while his master waswashing, there came by some rogues, who went off with his clothes,tho' he had cried out "Thieves, thieves," several times, as loud as hecould. This cunning Cat had hidden them under a great stone. The Kingimmediately commanded the officers of his wardrobe to run and fetchone of his best suits for the lord Marquis of Carabas.The King received him with great kindness, and as the fine clothes hehad given him extremely set off his good mien (for he was well made,and very handsome in his person), the King's daughter took a secretinclination to him, and the Marquis of Carabas had no sooner cast twoor three respectful and somewhat tender glances, but she fell in lovewith him to distraction. The King would needs have him come into hiscoach, and take part of the airing. The Cat, quite overjoyed to seehis project begin to succeed, marched on before, and meeting with somecountrymen, who were mowing a meadow, he said to them:"Good people, you who are mowing, if you do not tell the King, thatthe meadow you mow belongs to my lord Marquis of Carabas, you shall bechopped as small as mince meat."The King did not fail asking of the mowers, to whom the meadow theywere mowing belonged."To my lord Marquis of Carabas," answered they all together. for theCat's threats had made them terribly afraid."Truly a fine estate," said the King to the Marquis of Carabas."You see, sir," said the Marquis, "this is a meadow which never failsto yield a plentiful harvest every year."The Master Cat, who still went on before, met with some reapers, andsaid to them:"Good people, you who are reaping, if you do not tell the King thatall this corn belongs to the Marquis of Carabas, you shall be choppedas small as mince meat."The King, who passed by a moment after, would needs know to whom allthat corn, which he then saw, did belong. "To my lord Marquis ofCarabas," replied the reapers. and the King again congratulated theMarquis.The Master Cat, who went always before, said the same words to all hemet. and the King was astonished at the vast estates of my lordMarquis of Carabas.Monsieur Puss came at last to a stately castle, the master of whichwas an Ogre, the richest had ever been known. for all the lands whichthe King had then gone over belonged to this castle. The Cat, who hadtaken care to inform himself who this Ogre was, and what he could do,asked to speak with him, saying, he could not pass so near his castle,without having the honour of paying his respects to him.The Ogre received him as civilly as an Ogre could do, and made him sitdown."I have been assured," said the Cat, "that you have the gift of beingable to change yourself into all sorts of creatures you have a mindto. you can, for example, transform yourself into a lion, or elephant,and the like.""This is true," answered the Ogre very briskly, "and to convince you,you shall see me now become a lion."Puss was so sadly terrified at the sight of a lion so near him, thathe immediately got into the gutter, not without abundance of troubleand danger, because of his boots, which were ill suited for walkingupon the tiles. A little while after, when Puss saw that the Ogre hadresumed his natural form, he came down, and owned he had been verymuch frightened."I have been moreover informed," said the Cat, "but I know not how tobelieve it, that you have also the power to take on you the shape ofthe smallest animals. for example, to change yourself into a rat or amouse. but I must own to you, I take this to be impossible.""Impossible?" cried the Ogre, "you shall see that presently," and atthe same time changed into a mouse, and began to run about the floor.Puss no sooner perceived this, but he fell upon him, and ate him up.Meanwhile the King, who saw, as he passed, this fine castle of theOgre's, had a mind to go into it. Puss, who heard the noise of hisMajesty's coach running over the drawbridge, ran out and said to theKing:"Your Majesty is welcome to this castle of my lord Marquis ofCarabas.""What! my lord Marquis?" cried the King, "and does this castle alsobelong to you? There can be nothing finer than this court, and all thestately buildings which surround it. let us go into it, if youplease."(: "THE MARQUIS GAVE HIS HAND TO THE PRINCESS, ANDFOLLOWED THE KING, WHO WENT UP FIRST")The Marquis gave his hand to the Princess, and followed the King,who went up first. They passed into a spacious hall, where they founda magnificent collation which the Ogre had prepared for his friends,who were that very day to visit him, but dared not to enter knowingthe King was there. His Majesty was perfectly charmed with the goodqualities of my lord Marquis of Carabas, as was his daughter who wasfallen violently in love with him. and seeing the vast estate hepossessed, said to him, after having drank five or six glasses:"It will be owing to yourself only, my lord Marquis, if you are not myson in law."The Marquis making several low bows, accepted the honour which hisMajesty conferred upon him, and forthwith, that very same day, marriedthe Princess.Puss became a great lord, and never ran after mice any more, but onlyfor his diversion.