1001 Nights (translated by Richard Burton)There was once in olden time a foolish man and an ignorant,who had abounding wealth, and his wife was a beautiful woman,who loved a handsome youth. The Cicisbeo (gallant) used to watch forher husband's absence and come to her, and on this wise he abodea long while.One day of the days, as the woman was closeted with her lover, he said to her,"O my lady and my beloved, an (if) thou desire me and love me, give me possession of thy person andsatisfy my need in the presence of thy husband. otherwise I willnever again come to thee nor draw near thee while I live my life."Now she loved him with exceeding love and c uld not suffer his separationan hour nor could endure to anger him. so, when she heardhis words, she said to him, "Bismillah, so be it, in Allah's name,O my darling and coolth of mine eyes: may he not live who wouldvex thee!"Quoth he, "Today?"And quoth she, "Yes, by thy life," and made an appointment with him for this.When her husband came home, she said to him, "I want to go a pleasuring,"and he said, "With all my heart."So he went, till he came to a goodly place, abounding in vines and water, whither he carriedher and pitched her a tent by the side of a tall tree. and shebetook herself to a place alongside the tent and made her therea Sarddb (an underground vault), in which she hid her lover.Then said she to her husband, "I want to climb this tree". and he said,"Do so."So she clomb it and when she came to the tree top, she cried outand slapped her face, saying, "O thou lecher, are these thy lewdways? Thou swarest faith to me, and thou liedest." And sherepeated her speech twice and thrice. Then she came downfrom the tree and rent her raiment and said, "O lecher, an (if)these be thy dealings with me before my eyes, how dost thouwhen thou art absent from me?"Quoth he,"What aileth thee?" and quoth she, "I saw thee futter the woman before my veryeyes."Cried he, "Not so, by Allah! But hold thy peace till Igo up and see."So he clomb the tree and no sooner did hebegin to do so than out came the lover from his hiding place andtaking the woman by the legs, fell to shagging her.When the husband came to the top of the tree, he looked and beheld aman futtering his wife. so he called out, "O whore, what doingsare these?" and he made haste to come down from the tree tothe ground.But meanwhile the lover had returned to his hiding placeand his wife asked him, "What sawest thou?" and heanswered, "I saw a man shag thee."But she said, "Thou liest. thou sawest naught and sayst this only by way of phantasy."The same they did three several times, and every time he clombthe tree the lover came up out of the underground place andmounted her, whilst her husband looked on and she still said,"Seest thou aught, O liar?""Yes," would he answer, and camedown in haste, but saw no one and she said to him,"By my life, look and speak naught but sooth!"Then he cried to her, "Arise, let us depart this place, for 'tis full of Jinn and Marids."Accordingly, they returned to their house and nighted there, andthe man arose in the morning, assured that this was all but phantasyand fascination.And so the lover won his wicked will.