In Flanders there was a group of young folks who lived for gaming,eating, drinking, and merrymaking. They made these follies and excesseseven worse with their wanton and blasphemous curses and oaths.As my story begins, three of these riotous fellows were drinking in atavern when from the street they heard the sound of a bell accompanying acoffin to its grave."Go and ask whose corpse is passing by," said one of them to a servantboy."I already know who it is," replied the boy. "He was an old friend ofyours. Last night he was suddenly slain while seated dead drunk on hisbench. The silent thief who struck him down is the one named Death, thesame Death who has taken so many people in our country of late. Be onguard yourselves lest this adversary take you as well!""The boy is right," added the tavern keeper. "In a village only a milefrom here Death has taken man, woman, child, and servant. He must benearby. Take care, or he will do you harm!""Would meeting him be such a peril?" interjected one of the drinkers,then swore an oath on God's sacred bones that he would seek him out."Listen, friends," he added, "We three have always been as one. Let eachof us now hold up his hand and swear an oath of brotherhood. Together wewill slay this traitor Death!"And thus with a blasphemous curse, they swore to live and die for eachother and together to seek out and challenge Death before the nextnightfall. In a drunken rage they set forth toward the village of whichthe tavern keeper had spoken, swearing grisly oaths as they went.They had not gone a half mile before they met a poor old man. Hegreeted them humbly, "God be with you, my lords."The proudest of these unruly men replied, "Hey, old man, why are youstill hanging onto life at your great age?"The old man looked him in the face and said, "Because wherever I havewandered, no one will exchange his youth for my age. Thus I must keep myage for as long as it is God's will. Alas, not even Death wants mylife."At the sound of Death's name, one of the gamblers interrupted. "Youmention that traitor Death, the one who is killing all our friends. Areyou his spy? Are you one of his servants, sent to slay us young folks?Tell us where he is, or pay the price!""Well, sirs," he said, "If what you want is to find Death, just turn upthis crooked path. I left him sitting under a tree in a grove. He'll stillbe there. You'll find him."The three unruly men ran until they came to the tree, and there theyfound a pile of golden florins, well nigh onto eight bushels of them, theythought. The sight of all the bright and beautiful florins quickly causedthem to abandon their search for Death, and their thoughts turned to howthey might best protect their newly found treasure.The worst of them spoke the first word, "Brothers," he said, "Fortunehas given us this great treasure, but if we carry it home by light of day,people will call us thieves, and our own treasure will send us to thegallows. We must take it home by night, and then with utmost prudence andcaution. Let us draw lots to see which one of us should run to town andsecretly bring back bread and wine. The other two will stay here and guardthe treasure. Then in the night we will carry the treasure to wherever wethink is best."The lot fell to the youngest, and he immediately departed for thetown.He had no sooner left when the one said to the other, "You are my swornbrother, and I will tell you what will profit you the most. You know ourfriend has gone. There is gold here aplenty, but our shares will be muchgreater if we divide it by two than if we divide it by three."That's true, said the other, "but what can we do?"The first one answered, "The two of us are stronger than the one ofhim. You engage him in a playful wrestling game, and I will run my daggerthrough his back. Then you do the same thing with your dagger, and allthis gold will be for you and me alone."Now the youngest, while walking toward the town, thought over and overagain about the bright new florins. "If only I could have this treasure tomyself," he said, "then I would be the happiest man alive!"The Fiend, our Adversary, put into his heart the thought that he mightbuy poison and thus kill his two friends. And so, arriving in the town, hesought out an apothecary whom he asked for a poison to kill rats and alsoa polecat that was in his yard.The apothecary answered, "Here is a mixture that will kill anycreature, even if it were to eat an amount no larger than a kernel ofgrain."Carrying this poison in a box, he ran to the next street where heborrowed three bottles. He poured poison into two of them, keeping thethird one clean for his own drink. Then he filled all three bottles withwine and returned to his friends.But why make a sermon of it? They killed him, just as they had planned,and when the deed was done, one of them said, "Now let us sit and drinkand make merry. Afterward we will bury his body." And while still talking,he drank from the poisoned bottle, and his friend drank as well, and thusthe two of them died.